JANUARY TERM 1829.-

* PLOWDEN VESTON' AND OTHERS, PLAINTVFXS IN

449

vs.
WRROR
THE

CITi COUNCIL oF CHARLESTON, DEF.NDANr .
A tax imposed by a law of any state of the United States, or under the authority'
of sukh a law, on stock issued for loans made to-the United.States, is uncon-

*-

stl;,al_

The power of this Court to revise the judgments of.state tribunals, depends on
the'25th section 6f the judiciary act. That' seceien enacts "that a final judg.
ment or decree in any suit in the highest court-of law or equity of a state, in
which a decision in the suit could be had," where is drawn in question'the
vaidltyo'.a statute, or of an auilhority exercised-under any state; on the'ground
of their being repugnant to the constitution, treaties or laws of the United
States, and the decision is in favour of their validity, "may be re-bxamined,
and reverse,. or affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States." [463]
The city council of Charleston, exercising an authority under the'state of So'uth
Carolina, enacted an ordinance, by which a tax was imposed on the sit and
sever; per cent. dock of the United States; and in the court of common pleas
of.the Charleston distridt, an application was mide for a prohibition to restrain
thern from levying, the tax, bn the ground that the ordinanceyiolated the constitutiofn of the United States. The pr6hibition was granted, and the proceedings in the dase were removed.to the constitutional court, the highest court of
law of the state; and in that court it was held that the ordinance did not vjolate the constitution of the. United States, add a writ of error was "prosecuted
os this decision to this Court. Held, that the questidn decided by the constitutional court, was the very question on which the revising power of this Court
is to be exercised. [464]
A writ of error to this Court may~be prosecuted, where by the judgment of the
highest court of the state of South Carolina a prohibition, issued in a state court,
to prevent the levying of a tax which was imposed by a l]w repugnant to the
constitution of the United States,.was refused on'the ground that the law was
not so repugnant to the constitution. [464] . .
The term suit is certainly a very comprehensive one, and is understood to.apply
to any 'proceeding in a court of justice, in which an individual pursues that
remedy in a court ofjustice v .hich the law affords him. [464)
The ivords" final judgmnent," in the 25th section of the judiciary act, -must be
understood in thr section under consideration as applying to all judgments and
decrees which determine the particular ca'use;.and it is not required that such
judgments-shall finilly decide upon the rights whidh are litigated, that the
same shall be within puiview of the section. [464]'
It is not the want of original power in an-independent sovereign.state to prohibit
loans to a foreign government, which restrains the state legislature from direct
opposition to those made by the United States. The restraint is imposed by
our constitution The American people have conferred the power of borrowing
money. on (he government, and by making that government supreme, have
shielded its action in the exercise of that power, from the'action of the local
governments. The grant of the power, and the declaration of supremacy, is a
declaration that no such distraining or controlling power sha!; Ie exercised.
[468]

Vop,. II.-3'G

450

SUPR EME. COURT.
(Weston and others vs. The City Council of Charleston.].

THIS was a writ of error to the constitutional court of
South Carolina;
On the 20th of-February 1823,- the city council of Charleston passed "an ordinance to raise supplies for the use of the
city of Charleston, for the year 1823." The ordinance provides "that the following species of property, owned and
possessed within'the limits of the city of Charleston, thall be
subject t6 taxation in'the manner, and at the rate, arnd conformably to the provisions hereinafter specified; that is to
say, all personal estate, consisting of bonds, notes, insurance
.stock, six'and seven per cent. stock of the United States, or
other obligations upon which interest has been or will be
received during the year, over and above the interest which
has been paid, (funded stock'of this state, and stock of the
incorporated banks of this state- and the 'United States bank
excepted) twenty-five cenits upon every hundred doilars."
In the court of common pleas for tihe Chareston district,
the plaintiffs in error, in May' 1823, filed a suggestion for a
prohibition, as owners of Utited States stock, against the
city council of Charleston, to- restrain them froth levying
under the ordinances, on six and seven per cent. stock of the
United States and the tax imposed under the ordinance; on
the ground that the ordinance, so far as it' imposes a tax
.on 'the stock of the United States is contrary to'the constitution of the Unite d'States ,
The prohibition having been granted, the city council applied to the constitutional court, the highest court of law in
the state,- to reverse ihe order, on the ground that the ordinance was not repugnant to the constitution of the United
'States; and the proceedings in the case having been remov-.
ed.to the said- court, thd said court in May. term 1823, by a
majority of their judges (four being in favour of the constitutionality of-the ordinance, and three against it), decided
.that-thqe said ordinance did not violate the constitution of
-the United States, in imposing a tax' upon the holders. of
United States stock. From' this *decision -the relttors appealed. by writ of error to the Supreme Court of. the United
States.
The' error assigned in this Court was; that.th'e'judgment

JANUARY TERM 1829.

4-1-

[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Charleston.)

of the constitutional court was erroneous, in that it decided
the ordinance of thd city couincil of Charleston not to be repugnant to the congtitutioi of the United States.
The case was argued by Mr Hayne, for the plaintiM'-in
error; and by Mr Crbger and Mr Legare, for the defendants..
The counsel for plaintiffs in error submitted, tnat if the
course of proceeding adopted by the plaintiffs in error was
not approved of, by 'requiring a prohibition in the court of
common pleas, aid on the decision of the constitutional
court being against themby taking the writ of error, some
ther mode would be employed. , It was the "wish of all the
pi-ties to have the decision of this Court on the question involved in the case; and a ready and entire a-quidscence
would be yielded to the judgment of the Court by all who
were interested. It was submitted to the Co9re, that.tfor the
purp6ses of justice, the Court would give an opinion upon
the matter'.assigned for error; and if the form in which tle
case.had been brought up was not proper, the judgment of
the Court-would be'equally opeative, and would be yielded
to by the parties, plaintiffs and defendants in- error.
The. subject in contrqversy is one of proper cognizance
for this Court.. It involves a most i#uportant constitutional.
question the right of the states, or of state authorities, to
tax the funded debt of the.United States.
The subject matter of the ease belongs to this. Court.
The soundest rule that can Le adopted is, that when the
matter in question belongs to -the jurisdiction of the federal
courts,' a lileral construction in favour ofthe p-wers of the
cburt over it, should be given.
The question in this case 'concerns the vital means of the
nation; and the power claimd to be exercised under the
ordinance, would interfere wiih those means on emerge., iesof the deepest interest. It is'a constitutional' question; and
*as such is. peculiarly undbr the- guardianship of this Court.
The writ of error is to the highest tribunal'of the state of
South Carolina';. and the decision of that court has been in
favour of the constitutionality of the ordinance; thus bring.,

.452

SUPREME COURT.
[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Cbarlestop.J

.ing thd case, fully within the 25th gection of the judiciary
act. Let this Court certify its opinion, and the controversywill be -at an end.
On more occasions than one, when the Court has felt some
'embarrassment as to its jurisdiction, it has expressed an
opinion upon important questions; and when the general
good required a decision.- United States vs. Xirkpatrick,
9 Wheaton, 720.
2. The act of congress organizing. the courts of the United
States, authorizes this Court-to form and'Inould its process,
so as to enforce and carry into effect the objects and purposes for which the fedfal courts were established. It is
conceived that the-writ of prohibition is a mode of exercising jurisdiction which is essential to those purposes.
There is a strong analogy between- the prohibition asked in
this case, and ihose issued to district- courts under the law.
But if the writ of plrohibition may not be adopted, and the
Court should decide this case in favour of the'-plaintiffs in
error, the case .may be remanded to the court of common
pleas for the Charleston district; and should that court re-:
fuse to proceed as required, the supreme court may itself
enforce its judgment.
Upon the. general question, the counsel- for the plaintif
in error argued, that the ordinance does not impose a tax
on all public funds, but specifically on the six.and seven per
cent. stock of the United States. Thus there are selected,
as the particular object of taxation, those-debts of the government of the United'States ; and the sum the government has stipulated to pay for the 1aii is diminished to the
extent of the tax. The contract of the general government
is invaded, and ifs credit impaired. Its competency to negotiate loans may-be destroyed by the admission of this
_power of taxation. ,There are two sources o'revenue which
are essentially the right of the general government. That
fimposing
f
duties, and that of, borrowing money on the
credit of the nation. The safety of the whole, depends
upon the free and undisturbed exercise of these powers.
In peace, 'the first is necessary to revenue ; in war, the se-

JANUARY. TERM 1829.

453.

[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

cond is vital to defence and success.. If these powers and
rights-are not guarded: arid preserved, the functions and
purposes of the union will be suspended and destroyed.
There is no Warrant for, this tax, to be derived from the
opinion of this Court intife case of M'Cullough vs-. The"State
6f Maryland, 4 Wheaten, 316.. The Court, at the close of
the opinion delivered in that case., sanction a tax Qon\property heldby citizens of Marylapd ii -the Bank of the Ulited
States, in commbn -with other property throughout the
state;, but they say expressly, that "- particular tax updn
th." eration'of an instrument employed by the government
td carry its powers into execution, is void."
-Mr Hayne presented, as a part of his argument, the opinion of Mr Justice Huger in the tonstitutional court; who
with Nott'ahd -Bay, justices, dissented from the opinion of
the majority of the court(a)"
(a) ITuger,.T. dissenente.-,This.*asan application fora prohibition to restrain
the treasurer of the city of Charleston from levying a tax, imposed by a city ordinance, on six and seven per cent. stock of the United States. The words of
the ordinance are: All personal estate, consisting of bonds, notes, &c. six and
seven per cent. stock of the 'United States, or other obligations, upon which in"terest has been or will 4e received during the year, over and above the interest
which has-been paid, (except, &c. &c.) twenty-five cents on every $100. The
prohibition was ordered. A motion is now submitted for the reversal. of that
order. I'sm unwilling,- on so important a questioii merely to express my dissent from the judgment of the court. It is now for the first time agitated, and
ought to be fully discussed, that it "might 'fte better understood. It affects. thre
use of a power, as essential to the genera! government in periods of difficulty and
dinger, as any other which the people have delegated to it. 'If the city council
of Charleston can tax the stock of the United States, eo nomine, the states can;
and if the states can, it is. impossible not to perceive that the iscal operations of
the.gefieral government may be completely frustrated by th6 statds. It will bd
in vain for congress to pass acts authorising the secretary of the treasury to borrow money, if the holders of their stock can be taxed for having done so by the
states. Congress may offer ten per cent. for loans, but who wilt lend, if the states
can appropriate the whole to their own use ,Whether the states will do so or not may be problematical, but if they can do so, the risk of their doing so must
be covered by the term's on"which the loans wilt be made. - There is but one
substantial security for the proper administration "ofour governments, the immediate responsibility of the administratori thereof to the people. If, however, the
people have or feel no interest'in the lmeasures of a governmentits administrators are only nominally vesponsible; they will only be checked where they act inderogation of what is understood. or felt to be the interest of their constituents.
Reinote Interests are not seen by thebetter informed, and they always must pre-

I'M

SUPREME COURT.
[Weston and othersovs. The City Council of Charleston.]

Mr Cruger and. Mr Legare, for the defendants in error,
-ontended that a Airit of error could not be sustained on
proceedings in prohibitipn.
gent grounds for muchr difference of opinion, even among the best informed. It
isnot a sufficient guard, to the powers of the general government, that the con,
stituents of the administrators of the state governments have a remote interest in
the preservation of those powers, or in an unembarrassed exercise of them by the
general government. They must not be seen, or may not be understood, and
the very case before us, presents a full illustration of the truth. No government,
not reyolutionary, has ever atterppted to tax its own stock, and among others, far
two very satisfactory reasons. 1.Because such a tax must necessarily operate
injuriously upon all future loans ; and 2. Because there is in fact a violation of
contract in so doipg, and therefore immoral and impolitic. Under the influence
of these reasons, the legislature of-this state has refused, to tax the stock of the
United States -but it ,appears, that the city council of Charleston have thought
differently, and have taxed it. .There are, however, some very obvious, reasons
why the council of Charleston should be less dispoed to impose such a.tax than
the legislature. In the first place the city of Charleston being commercial,is'
more within the influence of the policy of the general government than the legislature: if, therefore, the ebuncil of the city can believe it pqlitie and just to
taX the stock of the United States, can it be thought improbablethat the legislature may, do so? , If they can do so at all, they may do so to any extent; it, is
equally within theit power to tax twenty per cent. or one hundred pir cent. as
,one-half per cent. What shall govern their discretion, it is impossible to fore-'
see. A state or a few states may concur in, a policy at variance with that of the
government, nay-in hostility toit. This, unfortunately, has been already witnessed.
They may, indeed, be indisposed to dissolve the union, and declare war; when
they might have no objection to counteract congress, and control its measures by
the exercise ofa powerstrictly constitutional, Seven-tenths of the stock of the
United States, are owned in the cities of Roston, New York, Philade)phit, Batimore and Charleston.
The same causes which have concentrated the stock in-thesei cities, will, .in
all probability, continue to operate, and the greater plrtof future loans will be
effected there. Should, therefore, even so imall a portion of the United States
as these cities, -unite in taxing stock to any considerable amount, the governme'nt
may be defeated, and will.,certainly be impeded in its fiscal operations, to thei
extent of any tax imposed. It may be supposed; that these cities would be
checked in such proceedings by their state legislatures. Whether this could be
done, must depend upon the constitutions of the states, and the -charters of the
cities. It may not suit the prevailing policy of a state to interfere in such a cage,
even if it possess the power. We know, from the charter of the city of Charleston,
that the legislature of this state can interfere and repeal the ordinance in question;
this, however, has not been done, although they have refused to impose such a
-tax themselves; and South Carolina is, has always been, and I hope will ever cdntinue to be, as national as any other state in the unibn. It may be said, that admit
all this to be true, it cannot affect the question before the court; who are alled
upon to decide what the constitution is, and, not what it ought to be. The judicial branch'of the_ government most certainly does not possess the. power of

.NUARY TERM 1829.

455 ,

[Weston and others vs. The -City Council of.Charleston.]

Should the Stipremfe Court reverse the judgment below in
this case, a mandate will' be directed to the infefior- state
legislating; much less, then, can they claim the power of making a constitutioh.
But, in construing the constitutioni they must look to the objects it'professes to
attain, and they cannot so as to defeat the very end and aim of its creation, nor
can they make it inconsistint with itself, if it be possible to avoid it. The general powers of congress may be sufficiently designated in the constitution,,but the
extent and ramifications of each power, it was not in the wisdoni of man to, fore-'
see and precisely describe: How they are to operate and exhibit themselves,
must depend upon the future contingent circumstances of the nation; and, as
these must be forever varying, constitutional questions or doubts must arise, as,
long ji. the constitution shall exist. These are the certain and legitimate consequences cf a written constitution. The-numerous questions which the statute
of frauds has given rise to, simple as wds its object, may.afford some intimation
of. the number, which an ihstrument so complicAted and general in its objects as.
the constitution-may be expected to produce. The great difficulty is, iot only
in ascertaining and defining ihe powers which reiult from those whic are expressly given to the government; but, (as in tbis case, and in that of the bank of
the Unitedl States), in determining the influence of these. on the powers of the
different states. In the decision of such cases, there must, at least, be the sem,blani-e of legislation. I am not conscious of even a desire to.extend unneeessarily the powers of the judiciary ; the pursuits and habits of near twenty years,
by far the better part of my life, have given at least to my feelingsa direction
decidedly~favourable to the legislative branch of the government; _when attached
in fact, as I was in feeling,-to that branch, I could not but-discern the importance
-of the judicial branch of the govemmeni,-and the necessity of leaving to its decisions all questions like the one before thie Court, though they savoured of legislation. I shall ceriainly not omit to do now-what I-foimerly regarded asincumbent upon the judiciary to perform. I shall now proceed to inquire-1st,Whether
the taxcin question be an income tax. That it is not, appears very clearlyfrom
the facts. of the case, as well as'from the terms of the ordinance. The stock of
the state; thestock of the city; bank stock universally,,is well as the profits of,
agriculture, enjoyed h, those who reside in the city, are not taxed ; nor does the.
ordinance affect to regard it as an income tax. It is a tax upon the United States
stock,.eo nomine. As this is not a tax upon.income, it is unnecessary to inquire
if the city council, or a state, have the powerto tax income, and include therein
the interest received on United States stock. I shall, therefore, proceed to in-quire if the city council, or a state, have the power to tax the United States
stock,2o nomine. "The first question presented by the inquiry is,.the meaning
of the term United States- stock. It is, I apprehend, a credit on the government for so much money, on which they have agreed to pay a ce'rtain interest.
He who has the credit is the holder, and the certificate is the Evidence of thd
credit, and the terms on which the credit has been given. The power to create
this credit is expressly given, by the 8th section, 1st article, of the, constitution
of the United States: "congress shall have power to borrow money on the
credit of the United States." The credit of the United States is the essence of
the stock; without it the st6ck ii of no value. The credit of the United States
is a creation of thegeheral government, which did not exist until they brought it
into being; and, in the production of which, the state governments did.not par.

SUPLEME COURT.
[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

court. 3 Dall. 342. In the event of the state court declining or refusing to carry that mandate into effect, a questicipate. The state could not tax it before the constitution was formed, for it did
not exist; if therefore they can tax it now, it must be by.some new power vested
'in them by that instrument; but there is no such power given : the credit of the
United States cannot be~taxed by the states. It is colntended, that to deny the
states a power to tax'money loaned to the general government, is to deprive
them of a great resource without any adequate object., In the first place) I must
observe, that if the states cannot tax the stock of the United States, the general.
govetnmen will be able 1 borrow on better terms, and in tis way the people of
the United States will be compensated forany incortvenience that might result
from .the exemption of the stock from the taxation of the -state-governments.
In ihe second place, I must repeat; thby have no cause 't complain, because it
is a creation of the geieral government which the states did npt possess before
its establishbient. But 6n this subject I cannot but think that a very erroneous
opinion prevails. It appears to be thought thatfor every thousand dollars loaned
to. the general government, so much taxable property his been withdrawn. from
thestates. But this is certainly not so., Of the one hundred millions of dollars
loaned to' the general government, during the late war, how Imtel of it remains
with the government? Not one cent. Where then is it? Certainly in te
states. If a certain number of individuals paid it into the treasury of the United
States,the govdrnne.nt has returned it to individuals'living in the different states;
and if liable to taxation at all, can now be taxed by the states. If the general gover'ment had been foreign to the state governments, or. had they hoarded it up,
this objdecti6n might have bad some force ;but as fast as they got it, they'returi.-"
ed it, and no means of theostatp governments were affected, but in increased difficulty of borrowiig money, owing td the competition of the general government.
One of the great objects of the constitution was to render the general government
independent of the state governments for those pecuniary means which are necessary to effect the great purpose for'which it was established : viz. to form a
more perfect union, establish justice,-ensure domestic tranquillity, provide for
the iommon defence, promote the general welfare, &c. &c. If, however, means
-so essential in periods of distress and danger, as loatis, can be'controlled by the
states, congress is yet essentially dependent upon the states. There is another
objection to this tax. I regard it as a violation of the contract made with the
holders of the United States stock. 'The people"of the United States, of ;viAonthe citizens of Charleston are a pait, have contracted tb pay so, much per centurn on the siock by their agents the general government. To authorise the citizens of Charleston to deduct a part from ihe interest agreed upon, they must
possess the power of altering the contract, withoiit the'consent of the holders of
the stock, which would be a 'iolation of the obligation of the contract. But the
constitution expressly declares that thdy shall not violate the obligation ofcontract.
To recapitulate my objections to the tai, they'are:
1. Because a tax upon stock of the United States, eo nzomtne. is a tax upon the
credit of the United States.
. 2. Befcause the credit of- the United States was not a'subject for taxation by
the states, anterior to the adoption of the constitution; the credit of the United
States being a: result of the establishment of the government of the -United
States; and the constitution has given no new powers to the state governments.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
LWeston and others vs. The City Council of Char.reton.]

tion will then arise as to the mode of proceeding to be
adopted as a remedy. That a futile exercise of jurisdiction
may not on this occasion take place, the difficulty ought to
be anticipated; for if it be insurmountable, this tribunal will
not, from self-respect, hold dognizance of the principal in;
quiry involved in the present suit.
Unless the Supreme Court acts in this matter through th6
interventiop of the state tribunal, it must issue a prohibition.
of itself, addressed to the tax collector individually. Should
he disobey, it will then have to proceed against him for a
contempt, and inflict a fine; and thus be thrown into a course
of practice' unprecedented, and extremely inconvenient.
That it will not award compulsory process, directed to a recusant state court, may safely be assumed, upon the strength,
of.the reasoning in Martin vs. Hunter's lessee, 1 Wheaton,
362. If not from a regard to the sovereignty of a state in
its last refuge of the judiciary, this resort will not be had at
least, because it seems to be negatively precluded by the
25th section of the act of the 24th of September 1789. That.
section provides for the Supreme Court's "proceeding to a
final decision of the cause, and awarding execution thereini'
if it has been once remanded before." Whether under these
words, on the refusal of a state, court to fulfil its mandate,
this Court has jurisdiction in prohibition so as to enable it
to execute its own judgment, by inhibiting the Officers personally from collecting.the tax under consideration, if adjudged unconstitutional, must first be decided. If the power
be wanting, nothing but an act of congress can supply the
deficiency. The mode and forms of proceeding under the
appellate authority of this -Court, are dependent upon the
. Because the objects of taxation by the state governments are not diminished
by withholding from them the power oftaxing, stock of the United States; as the
money borrowed by the United States is immediately, by disbu-sements, returned to the people of-the different states.
4. 'Because it renders the general government dependent upon the Oiscretion
of the state governments, for one of its essential me'us in acco-nplishiag the purposes for which it was established, a result at variance with one of the prinair l
objects of the c6nstitution, which was to render the general government irtdependent of the pecuniary aid of the state governments.
And lastly, because it is a violation of the obligation of contract.

VO'L. II.-3 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Weston and others us. The Cty Council of Charleston.]

acts of congress for their regulation. 6 Cra.307. Although
the 14th section of the judiciary act gives to the courts of
the United :States "power to issue all writs necessary for
the exercise of-their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable
to the principles and usages'of law ;" this general grant-is
limited by the 25th- section, in the particular -instance of
-writsof error froni final judgments of state courts to "awarding exeeutions.'" No congtruction of these words consistent
with technical accuracy, will 6ring a prohibition within their
meaning; and original jurisdiction will scarcely be assumed
"to'adrnit the. procedure.
I The power of .oiigress to incorporate a bank, or even to
invade the territory of a state to establish its branches, canriot be controverted -after, the decisions in M'Cullough vs.
Maryland,4 Wheat.316, and Osborne vs. United States Bank,
9 Wheat. .738 ; much less could their-right to raise .loans for
*carrying on the o.pera.tions of government be drawn into
question. On the other.hand it would be taken as conceded,
that the righl of the states to impose taxes is sovereign, and
concurrent; and that there are no express limitations upon
this attribute; except those contained in -the 18th section,
*arlicle1st, of the federal constitution as to duties or imp6sts
on imports, exports, and tonnage.
* Through these mutual admissions, the question now to-be
disposed of, is simply, can a state constitutionally tax the
income accruing to its citizens from six znd seven per cent.
stock of the United States, owned by them individually!
The purpose of plaintiffs in error is to make out by implication a restriction upon a sovereign and vital, inough a con.
current state right. - This is attempted upon 'substantiall)
three grourids. -1st. That the. tax in dispute is a'violation
of thec faith arid. obligoai6n'of a contract. 2d. That the
cre6dit of'theUifited States upon which it bears, did not exist
until after the constitution was'framed. And 3dly. because
it interferes with.thie means of the federal governmenI necessary to carry their powers into effect. As to the first. objection, certainly- if the United States
were to impose a tax, going to' diminish the. interest it had
stip ilated to pay the, purchasers of this. sfock, such a mea-

JANUARY TERM 1829..

459

[Weston and others-vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

sure would. be a violation of faith. But the reason does not
hold as to a third person, not a party to the contract; and in
this light the state of South Carolina stands; for hg-faith is
-pledged as an integral part of the union in-this respedt-only;
quoad federal taxation. She hag come under-no obligitionindividually, not to draw her resources from these - funds,
though, emanating from the common, authority, whepever
they pass into the hands of her, peculiar citizens; and it -may.
be presumed that the liability of this stock; so situated,-to
state taxation, was perfectly- understood" by those-.who be.:
came holders, and entered into their eontract with .the general government. As well might a tax imposed by a- state
on the public lands with'in its. limits, when sold -out to, pri'
vate persons,, be treated as a departure from good faith, and
a violation of the contract ofsale; for here, as much as where
public stock is created and sold, a state is. a party to the
engagement, that no more than a certain.price. is to be pii
for the property, and that its profits ar not to be diminished.
It is said, however, that where lands are sbld, the United
States parts with the freehold with no prospect of resumption, and that it is otherwise with -stock. Yet in point of
fact, tha only difference is between the real and personal
*property of the government for in the case of a sale of the
former on credit, liable to a foreclosure of mortgage, there
will be a chance of its reyerting to the public domain, and
surely it will not be exempted from state taxation until .the
last cent of the price is paid off.
It is next said that this stock constitutes the -creditof the
union, which, not-having existed anterior to the adoption -of
the constitution,,cannot-be subjected to state t~xes,.unless
by virtue of some provision in that instrument. This teason
if of any avail, will go to exonerate .al the territories and
other.propertj, of the. United States acquired subsequently
to that epoch; and failing of that result, must be.discarded,
altogether.
The objection most. strongly urged however against- this
ordinance is, that it interferes with a law of the general governiaent, which., being supreme, must predominate, and it
is roundly- laid down that "should any state directly -or. in-

.SUPIREME COURT.
[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

directly m6dify, alter, or abridge any of the acts ot soveregnty of the United States, br render any of its measures
nugatory, or inoperative, or. in any manner impeach the
credit, or impair the resources of the union, by taxation or
otherwise; the act would be an interference repugnant to the
constitution," and that "a state,'annot tax any of the constitutional means employed by the government of the United
States to execute itp constitutional powers ;" "nor can it by
taxation or otherwise, retard, impede, burthen, or in any
manner control the operation of the constitutional laws enacted by congress to carry into effect the powers vested in
the national government."
Throughout this discussion the state has been treated of
as in an antagonist pogition towa'ds the federal government,
and as seeking purpbsely to incomnmode, and destroy its fiscal operations,; while the direct effect of these upon the resouices of the state has been allowed no consideration.
The ordinance in question is assumed to be a measure passed expressly to countervail and defeat a law of congress.
But it is no where demonstrated that a tax on' this stock,
owned by indiviiduals, will be attended by any such consequence. ' The utmost that may ensue, will be a prejudice
to the preference of this stock in market, and perhaps the
citizens of the state imposing the tax may find it more protheir capital otherwise. This creates a
.fitable
qustionto ofinvest
policy, at the discretion of the state alone,
whether it will drive abroad a particular means of speculation; but the reflection is beside ihe constitutional inquiry
now 'agitated,
The position broadly taken here is, that if the exercise of
a concurrent power by a state, interferes With a power of the
general government, the former must give way. What is
the extent of interference'which is to be thus resisted q and
how is this interference to be graduated! Here it is always
put as mounting to the point of destruction, and as brought
into actioh, ipso intuitu.. To presuppose hostility on the
part. of the state is wholly grdtuitous, and.greatly to be deprecated.- As much'may be trusted to the liberality and
forbearance of a state;-as of the federal government; and

JANUARY TERM 1829.
EWeston and

461-

others vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

comity, and cordial confidence should characteriie alltheirelations.' All the reasoning in this case is. against the
abue of a conceded state right, and it is founded upon a
quia timet, and its materials are extremes. Not even a surraise is thrown out, that this tax has, in point of.fact,. impeded, much less frustrated, a fiscal operation of goverhment; but it is said, 4hat if the power it involves were
pushed further it might have that effect; and that, as it is
without any limit or control, save the discretion of. a state,
no guarantee against its abuse, short-of abolition, should 'be
accepted. This is in a strain of hostility that well -warrants
the interrogatory, why .hould 'an unprescriptible sovereign,
and indispensable right of a state be postponed, and. put in'.
derogatiopin favour of an implied,, auxiliary, and optional
means-of the general government 9.. Is not the power to useibis means also a power to destroy, and alike unlimited'!
The generalgovernment, by carrying- their power to'extremes' in the creation of extensive loans, might furnish facilities of exempt investment, that would entirely absorb
from the reach of state taxation all the fundas of its citizens,
and, thus destroy one of its highest prerogatives and very
eistence. If the possible abuse of the power to tax by a
state; is-to infringe up.on the'right, 'the like objection'will
assuredly attach'to the power of. borrowing on the part of
the United States. In answer to this a suggestion has beenmade, that the general government does not hoard up its
revenue, but immediately reinstates by expenditure, all thiat
has been substracted from the reiources of a state. - This is
bnly partially true, and yields but indifferent -consolation,
and affords occasion for anotlir-most forcible itnpeabhment
of the p rvalitig system of i6ternal improv6ments, and other
government expendiiures of the public money., By the supposed operation the southern states-not only have their capital drawn offfrom local,taxation, bat in the existing state
of things supply another means of conferring benefits, or
rather gratuities, in which they have no participation.
-The doctrine that interference with federal power will
lsuffice,, by implication, to neu.tralize, or even annihilatestate ?ights'is startling in itself, and most pernicious when

. SUPREME COURT.
[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

carried out to its legitimate results. - The degree. of interference being entirely unsettled,, and incapable of adjusti.
ment, however slight or shadowy it may..be, the objection
can never be started but to a fatal issue. Indeed it will go
to abolish all power in the states,- under some .circum4stances, to levy and.collect taxes.. In. the event of a resort
to direct taxation, on the part of congress, whatever is subjected -to federal assessment must, ipso facto, be -discharged
from.all other imposition; inasmuch as a tax by a state, on
any given article, must necessarily diminish its capacity of
bearing. 'other exactions, and, if -caiTied' to excess, must
frustrate any attempt on the part of the. general government
to raise a revenue from the same. sources. In fact, there
are but few powers.reserved to the -states .that, upon the
possibility of abuse, may not be brought under the ban of
interference with federal measures.
In, the case. of Bulov' et al. vs. the City Council of
Charleston, 1 .ott - ,M'Cord, 527, it has been decided
that United States bank stock, in the hands of individuals,
may constitutionally. be taxed by- a. state.. And in M'Cullough vs. Maryland, it is admitted , that the. principle there
ascertained " does not extend to a tax paid7 by 'the real property of the, bank of the United States, in common with the
other real property in a .particular state, nor to a tax im-posed .dpon- the propr.ietaryinterest which, the citizens of
.that statq may hold in. this institution,,in common with' other.
property of the same description throughout the- state," and
that, " -as -to the bank stock belonging to its own citizens,
,it"still continues liable to otate 'taxation, as a portion of
-their individual property in common with all other private
property in the. state." The stock brought under contribution -by the city ordinance now attacked, comes withih this
exception. When taxedit had been sold out •by. governmept,-.and was in the hands of individuals, whose proprietary interest in the fund was-subjected-in common with property' of a similar description. The, tax Jhere dssessed was
not in the nature of a -penalty- on. lending to the United
States, being .neither excess'ive nor- discrinrinating. If
Oharged on the stock, e o.nomine, the nane was inserted in

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Weston-and others vs. Th6 City Council of Charleston.]

the ordinance merely as a description of one among several
sources, from whence the income of- the citizens might
arise bn which it was to bear. The words of the ordinance
evince, clearly that this species of pioperty was not singled
out for proscription, or. a sinister, purpose, as various others
are enumerated; and if an exception is made in favor of
stodk of the United States bank, and of local institutions,
motives of expediency, or the fact that a bonus had been
paid in commutation of taxes, probably influenced the de'parture from, while they recbgnized the existence of the
general rule.
This tax then is not =obnoxious to the objections urged
against it, and being upon the interest held by individuals
in the funded debt of the United .Statesin common, with
other property of the same description in South Carolina, it
c6mes within the exception made in the leading case decided.
by this Court upon the subject, and the ordinance imposing
it is constitutibnal and valid.
Mr Chief -JusticeMAsnAr.L, delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case was argued on its merits at a preceding term;
but a doubt having arisen with the Court respecting its jurisdiction in cases of prohibition, that doubt was suggested to
the bar, and a re-argument was requested. It has been reargued-at this term.
The. power of this Court to revise the judgments of a state
tribunal, -depends on the -25th section of the- judicial act.
That section enacts "that a final judgment or decree in anysuit in the highest court of law or 'equity of a state- in which
a decision in the suit could be had," "where is drawn in
question the validity of a statute or of an authority exercised
under any state, on the ground of their being repugnant to
the constitution, treaties, or- laws of the United States, and
the decision, is in favour .of-such their validity," "may be
re-examined and reversed.or affirmed in theSupreme Court
of.the United States."',
.-In this case the 6ity ordinance-of Charleston is .the ex--

ercise~of-an ." authority under the state of South:Carolina,"

•4"64

SUPREME COURT.
[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Cliarle'ston.]

"the validity of which has been drawn in question on the
ground of its being repugnant to the constitution," and "t he
decision is in favour of its validity." The question therefore
.which was decided by ,the constitutional court, is the very
question on which the ievising power of this tribunal is. to
be exercised, and the only inquiry is, whether it has been
decide.d in a case described in the sectidn which authorises
the writ of error that has been .aiyprded. 'Is a writ of prohibition a suit?
The term, is certainly a very comprehensive one, and is
understood to apply to any proceeding in a court of justice)
by which an individual pursues that -remedy in a court of
justice, which the law affords him. The modes of proceeding may be 'arious, but if a right is litigated between parties in a court of justice, the proceeding by which the decision of the court is squght,.is a suit. The question between the parties, is precisely the same 'as it would have
been in a writ of replevin, or. in an action of trespass. The
constitutionality of thd ordihance is contested; the party
aggrieved by it applies to a court; and at his suggestion, a
writ of prohibition, the appropriate remedy, is issued. The
opposite party appeals; and, in the highest court, the judgment is reversed and'judgment given for the defendant.
This judgmentwas, we think, rendered in a suit.
We think also that it was a final jutdgment in the'sense in
which that term is-used in the 25ih section*or the judicial
act. If it were applicable to those judgments and decrees
only in which th6 right was finally decided, and. could never
-again be litigated between the parties, the provisions of the
section would'be confined within much narrower limits than
the words import, or than congress could have intended.
Judgments in actions of ejectment, and decrees in chancery
dismissing 'a bill' without'prejudice, however deeply they
might affect ights protected by the constitution, laws, or
treaties of 'the United States' would not be subject to the
.revision of this Court. A prohibition might issue, restraining
-a collector from collecting 'duties, and this Court .would not
revise. and correct 'the judgment.. The word "final" must.
be understood in the section under consideration, as apply-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Weston and others vs.The City Council of Charleston.]

ing to all judgments and decrees which determine .the particular cause.
We think then that the writ-of error has brought the cause
properly before this Court.
This brings us to the main question., Is the stock issued
for loans made to the government of the United'States liable
to be taxed by states and corporations !.Congress has power "to borrow money on the credit of
the United States." The stock it issues is the evidence of
a debt 'created by the exercise of' this power. The tax-in
question is a tax -upon the- contract. suhsisting between the
government ind the individual.. It bears directly upon that
contract, while subsisting and in full force.. - The pover
operates uponithe contract the instant it is framed, andmust
imply.a right to, affect that contract.
Itf the states and corporations throughout the union, possess the power to tax a contract for the loan of money, what
shall arrest. this principle in its application to every other
contract!. What measure carn government adopt which will
not be exiposed to its influence .
But it is unnecessary to pursue this principle through its
diversified application to all the contracts, and to the various. operations of government. . No one *can be selected
which is of more vital interest to the community'than this
of borrowing money on the credit of the United States. No,
power has beei .conferred b the American people on their
government, the free and unburthened exercise of which
more deeply affects everk member of our republic. In war,
when the honour, the safety, the independence of the nation
are to be defended, when all its resources are to be strained
to the utmost, credit must be broughtin aid of taxation, and
the abundant revenue of peace and prosperity must be anticipated to supply the exigences, the urgent demands'of the,
moment. The people, for'ojects the(Anost important which
can occur in.the progress of nations,- have empowered their
government to make, these anticipations, "to borrow money
on the crqdit.of.the United States." Can any.thing be more
dangerobs, or more injurious, than the admission of a principle which iuthorizes -every state and -every corporation in
VoL. I.--=31

SUPREME COURT.
[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

the union.which possesses the right of tdxation, to burthen
the exercise of this power at their discretion q
If the right to impqse the tax exists, it is a right which in
its nature acknowledges no limits. It may be carried to any
extent within.the- jurisdiction of the state or corporation
which imposes it, which the will of each .state and corporation may prescribe. A. power which is given by the whole
American people for their common good, which is to be exercised at the most critical peribds for the most important
purposes, on. the free exercise of which the interests certainly, perhaps the liberty of the whole ma depend; may be
burthened, impeded, if not arrested, by any of the organiized
parts of the confederacy.
In a society formed like ours, with one supreme government for national purposes, and numerous state governments
for other purposes; in many resplects independent, .and in
the uncontrolled exercise of many important powersi occasiondl interferences ought not to surprise us. The power
of taxation is one of the most essential to a state, and one
of the most extensive in its operation. The attempt to maintain a rule which shall lim~it its exercise, is undoubtedly
among the most delicate and difficult. duties which can devolve on those wiise province it is to expound the supreme
law of the land in its atpplication to the cases of individuals.
This'duty has more than once devolved on this Court. In
the performance of it we have considered it as a necessary
consequence from the supremacy of the government-of the
whole, that its action in the exercise of its legitimate powers,
should be free and -unembarrassed by any conflicting powers
,inthe possession of its parts; that the powers of a state
cannot rightfully be so exercised as to impede and obstruct
the free course of those measures which the government of
the states united may rightfully adopt.
I This subject-was brought before the Court in the ease of
M'Cullough vs. The state of Maryland(a), when" ii was
thoroughly argued and deliberately considered. The question decided in that case bears a near res'emblance to that
(a) 4 Whealori, 916.

JANUARY TERM, 1829.
[Weston and otbers vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

which is involved in this. It was discussed at the bar in all
its relations, and examined by the Court with its utmost attention. We will hot repeat the reasoning which conducted
us to the conclusion thus formed ; but that conclusion was
that "all subjects over which the sovereign power of a state
extends, are objects of taxation; but those over which it does
'not extend, are upon the soundest principles exempt from
taxatiori." "The 'sovereignty of a state extends to every
thing which exists by its own authority, or is introduced by
its permission " but not. "to those means which are. employed by congress'to carry into execution powers conferred
on that body.b the people of the United States.". "The
attempt to use" the power of taxation "I on the means employed by the government of the union in pursuance of the
-constitution, is itself an-abuse, because it- is the usurpation
of a power which the people of a single state cannot give."
The Court said in that case, that "the states have no power
by taxation, or otherwise, to retard, impede, bjrthen, or in
any manner control the operation of the constitutional laws
.enacted by congress, to carry into execution the powers
vested in the general government."
We retain the 'opinions which were then expressed. A
contract inade by the government in the exercise of its power,
-to borrow money on the credit -of the United States, is.und'bubtedly independent of the will of any state in which the
individual who lends may reside, and is undoubtedly an operation essential to the important objects for'-which the government was created. It ought, therefore; on the principles
settled in the case. of M'Cullough-vs. The State of Maryland,
to be exempt from state taxation, and consequently -from
being -taxed by corporations deriving their power from"states.
It is-admitted that the power of the government to.boirow
money can ncat be directly opposed, and that any law directly'
obstructing its operkiion would be void; but, a distinction" is
taken between -irect opposition and those measures which
may. consequentially affect it; that is, that a law prohibiting
loans to the United States would be- void, but a tax on them
to,-any amount is. allowable.
It is, we think,- impossible .not to :perceve ihe intimate

SUPREME'COURT.
EWestgn and others vs. The City Council of Charleston.]

c9nnexion which exists between these two mbdes of acting
on the subject.
It is not the want of original power in* an independent
sovereign state, to prohibit loans to a foreign government,
which restrains the legislature from direct'opposition to those
made by the United States. The restraint is imposed by
our-constitution, The American people have conferred the
power of borrowing money on their govqrnment, and by
making that government supreme, have shielded its action,
in the e3kercise of this power, from the action of the'local
governments. The grant of the power is incompatible with
a restraining or controlling powet, and the declaration of
supremacy is a declaration that no.such restraining or controlling, power shall be exerciseu.
'
.The right to. tax the contract to'any extent, when made,
must uperate upon the power to borrow before it.is exercised,
and. have a sensible influence on the contract. The extent
of this influence depends on the will of a distinct government. *Toany extant, however inconsiderabl6, it is a: burthen on the operations of government.. .Itmay be carried to.
an extent which shall arrest them entirely.
It is admitted by the counsel- for the defendants, that the
powpr to tax stock must affect the. terms on which, loans will
be made; but this objection, it is said, has no more weight
when' urged against the application of an acknowledged
power 'to government stock, than if urged against its application to lands'sold by the United States.
The distinction is, ve think, apparent. ' When lands are
sold, no connexion remains between the purchaser and the
government. The lands purchased become a part of the
mass of property in. the country with no 'implied' exempion from common b-.rthens. All lands are derived from the
general or particular government, and all lands are subject
to taxation. Lands.sold are in the condition of money bor-'
rowed and re-paid. Its liability to taxation in any forni. it
may then assume. is not questioned. The connexion between
the borrower and the lender is dissolved. It is no .burthen
on loans, it is no impediment to the power of borrowing, that
the money, when re-paid, losps its exemption from taxation.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Weston and others us. The City Council of Charleston.]

But a tax'upon debts due from the government, stands, we
think, on very different principles- from a tax on lands which"
the government has sold.
"The Federalist" has beeli tuotedin the argument, and-an
eloquent-and well merited eulogy has been bestowed'on the
great statesman who is supposed to be the "author of the
number from which the quotation was made. This high
ai ihority was also relied upon in the case of M'Cullough vs.
The state. of Maryland, and was, considered by the Court.
Without repeating what was.then said, we refer to it as'exhibiting our view of the -sentiments expressed on this subject
by the authors of that work.
"It has been supposed that a tax on stock comed within the,
exceptions stated in the case of M'Cullough vs. The state of
Maryland, We .do not think so. The bank of the United
States is an instrument essential to the fiscal operations Of
'the government, and the power which 'might be exercised to
its destruction was denied. 'But 'property acquired by thatcorporation in a state -was sdpposed to-be placed in the same
condition with property adquired by an individual.
The tax on government stock, is thought by this Court to
be a tax on the contradt, a tax on the power to borrow
money oh the credit of the United States, and consequently.
to be repugnant to the constitution.
We are, therefore; -of' opinion that the' judgment, of the
constitutional court of the state of South Carolina, -reversing
the order made by the: court of comm6n pleas, awarding a.
prohibition to the city 'council of Charleston, to'restrain them
frorh levying a' tax imposed, on six and seven per cent. -stock
-ofthe United States, 'under an ordinance to raise supplies to
the use of the city o' Charleston for the year 1823, is erro-.
neous in this; that the' said constitutional court adjudged
that'the said ordinance was not repugnant to'the constitution of the United States; whereas, this Couri is of opinion
that such 'repugnancy does exist. We are,'therefore, of
opinion that the' said judgment ought to be reversed and
annulled, and the causb remanded to the constitutional court
for:the state of South Carolina, that farther proceedings may
be had therein according to law.

SUPREME COURT.
[Weston ond others vs: The City Council .f Charleston.]

Mr Justice- JoHNs0.o, dissentiente.-Entertaining different
yiews oh ,the questions in this cause from the majority of the
Court, and wishing generally that my reasons for my opinions
on constitutional questions should appear, where they cannot
be misunderstood or misrepresented,.I will biiefly state the
grpunt upon *vhich I dissent from the decision now rendered.
On the first point I am of opinion, that .the cause is not
one within either the letter or the policy of the 25th section
of.the judiciary act.
That the sugggstion and motion to obtain a prohibition is
a suit in its general sense, cannot be questioned ; but thatis
rot enough, to give this Court jurisdiction ; it..must be- a suit
within the meaning and policy of the law which gives this.
writ of error. The words of the 26th section are, "a final
judgment or decree on -any suit;" from which I think it unquestionable that it must be a suit capable of terminating
in a final judgment or decree. Now a prohibition, especially where it is refused, as in-this case, is not /]al, and concludes no body. If the party -against which it was prayed
goes on to carry. into effect an unconstitutional law, he to
whom it was refused,.is at liberty to bring.his action-of trespass, and the refusal of the -fvibibition would be no bar, to
.his recovery.
Indeed, in cases of prohibition, ihere is no consideratum
est, no judgment entered, except, as well as.I can recollect,
'in two eases: in that where it is first granted and then dissolved, and a writ of consultation awarded authorizing the
defendant to proceed; aid in the case where the promove.nt
js ruled to declare, and the cause goes on to.judgment ih thE
usual form. When it is refused there is never.a judgmeiit
entered, nor where it is granted. in ordinary cases ; a nd hence
it isTlaidown generally that no writ of error lies in prohibition. There is no ground. that I can perceive, to suppose
that congress intended any innovation in the oidinary rules
of law as to suing out writ s 9 f error. - On the contrary, in
authorizing a writ'of error to a final judgient in so many
words, the legal conclusion is that they need not to adhere
to the rule that a writ of error can "only issue to. recover a
judgmenf as technicagy undersfood.

JANUARY TERM 1899.

471

[Weston and others vs. The City Coihnel of CharleSton.]

Again, the suit to which this section has relation must be
a suit in which this Court possesses or can exercise the power.
to enter judgment and award execution; because the latter
part of the 25th section enacts, "that the Supreme Court
may at their discretion, if the cause shall have been once
remanded before, proceed to a final decision of the same,
and award.dxecution. Now if .the term execution here be
taken, in its ordinary technical meaning, this is not a case
in which it can issue; the sole object of this.prohibition being
to stay -the proceedings of the city council and city sheriff
under the law complained off; and if the issuing- of a.prohibiti~n be cofisidered as coming within the meaning of execution as here used, then this Court has to power to issue'a
prohibition to a state, court or state officer. Congress has-not pretended to vest in it such authority. And.I am well
satisfied that this power has been withheld from the courts
of the United States ex industria. For every provision in
the-constitution and the -uniform policy of the governm-ent,
hAve been to prevent the immediate action of the one government upon the constituted authorities of -the other, a collision which it was a leading object in the constitution-to
avoid', because its effects- were unavoidably aud fully anticipated.
If i t be asked, or has beed argued, why may not this
'Court proceed as 'far as it can proceed, and -reverse the
judgment of the.state court, onenter a judgment for a-prohibition, though* it cannot issue it; I answer,. simply be-'
cause the 'case wants those distinctive features which are
necessary to make out a case for the interference of this
Courp under the 25th section. And I cannot imagine that
the legislature would place this Court in the unenviable"dilemma of thus assuming ungranted powers, or of exercising
jurisdiction in a case over which it could assume no coercive:
power.
Hence I conclude, that neither the letter nor the policy
of the law, sanctions us in exercising this jurisdiction. Nor'
is there the least necessity for it, since every beneficial end
nay be angwered, when individuals are brought into controversy; by the ordinary proceedings under an unconstitu-

SUPREMF COURT.
[Weston and others vs. the City Council of Charlestmn.]

tional law; and until this conflict of interest arise from .th~e.
actual. execution bf process, the law remains a mere "br uituin
fulmen."
My -views..of the question of jurisdiction would exempt
me'from. the-necessity:of giving an. opinion on the constitue
tionality of-the cqse under consideration. *But I have no
objection
to expressing my opinion upon this question. ' .
If I could
bring myself to consider this question in
-the
form in which it is ,conp'idered by the majority of the Court,
I should- certainly concur, in the opinion, that the tax was
unconstitutional. • For, the exercise of a. power, -which,'
under the mask of imposing a tax, may defeat or impede the
operation of the government of the United States in borrowing money, could not be tolerated. But I am, stronglyim.pressed with the opinion, - that the record does not autlhrise
this state of the _question.. It. is true the act of the.,6ity
council of Charleston, which -imposes this .ta, is most
clumsily worded. But I think it clear that, takeuttogether,
the object is to impose an incone tax. This, I think, is necessarily inferred from the fact, that .the tax -is not imposed
upon money at interest generally, but only on so-much as
the individual has at interest above what he owes or pays
an - interest ' upon.

The operation of 'this" is to charge no

more than his 6lear-income from money at interest. It-. is
objected, that they make discriminations, and exempt. from
taxation state stock, city stock, and stock of 'their own
chartered. banks. , But then they exempt also, stock' of the
United $tates bank ;- and there can be no. better prcof d9_
manded to show, .that the law is. conceived.-in the ppirit.of
fairness, with .-a view' to revenue, and no masked attaok
upon the-poweis of the general government. Had they, in
fact, taxed any one of thdse, excepted objects, we should
have had.the law brought up here as a violati'on, of. the obligation of contracts; since the- statute books of the state will
show, that all their banks, with the exception of the state
bank,- have paid a bonus -to the state. And it would have
been impossible 'to tax the state bank, because the stock'is
fitogether owned by the state, and. the laws of the council
are subject to be repealed by the state.
-

JANUARY TER-M 1929.
EWesfon and others vs. The'City Council of Charleston.]

As to the specification of six and seven per .cent. stock
of the United States as, objects -of taxation, this also admitg
of 4n-explanation, showing that the council acted in the spirit
of fairness and candour, although certainly not -happy in expressing the legislati've mind. This specification became necessary, from their iniposing the tax by means of a per centage
of iwdnty-five cents upon"the capital at interest, instead of a
per centage on the interest received;- Hence to have brought
the four and three per cent.-stock of the United States under
the tax, would -have been. unequal and unjust; and there can
be -little doubt that to avoidthis inequality was their object.
I consider the case therlefore as-one of a tax upon income
afistg from the interest of 'money, a.very unwise and suicidal tax unquestionably, and not very judiciously arranged
and expressed; but still characterized by no unfairness, and
no masked attack upon. the powers of the general -government. And if so, with what correctness can it be characterized as unconstitutional '.
. Why should not the -stock of-the United States, when it
becomes mixed up with the capital of its citizens, become
subject to taxation in common with other capital.. Or why
should one who enjoys all the advantages of a society phrchased at a heavy expense, and lives in affluence upon an
incdme derived exclusively from interest on government stock,
be exempted from taxation .1
No one imagines that it is toa be singled out and marked
as an objeci of persecution, and that.a law professing to tax,
will be permitted to destroy: 'this subject was sufficiently
explained in M'Cullock case. But why should the states be
held -io confer a. bonus or bounty on the loans made by the
general government ' . The question is not whether their
Mock is to be eifposed to peculiar burthens ; but whether'it
shall enjoy-privileges and exemptions, directly interfering
with the power of the states to tax or to borrow.
" tlan see no reason for the exemption,-and.certainly can-Rotacquiesce li it

Mr Justice TnoMPs6.O, dissentiente.-This case comes before usfunder the.-25th 'lection.ot the judiciary act of 1789,
VOL. II.-3 K
-

474

SUPREME COURT.
[Weston ana others us. The City Councilof Chaleston.]

on a writ of error to the constitutional court of the state of
South Carolina, the highest -codrt of appeals in that state.
The question' in the .state court arose upon proceedings
commenced'in an inferior courti and the issuing of ; prohibition to restrain the city council of Charleston, aid all other.
persons acting under their authority, from levying and collecting a tax on stock of the United States, held by the appellants; on .the ground, that such tax was a violation of
the, constitution ofthe Ufited States. The prohibition having-been-granted by the, inferior ceurt, the order and judgnient of that court were reversedin the constitutional court,
thereby upholding the constitutionality of the tax.
A prelimhinary question has been raised, whether this Court
has jurisdictidn of "the case, under the 25th section of.the
judiciary act. I think we have not. It is not a suit within
the meaning ofthat section-; and if it was, the writ of error
is-br6ught to reverse a judgment, refting to grant the prohibition. And if that judgment-or order-should be reversed here, this Court has no power. to enforce its judgment4 or
give' the party any relief or protection againsithe imposition
of the tax; But I shall not enter into an examination of this
question: it is one of- minor importance; as I understand
this Court does not claim the power-of enforcing its judgment 'in any manner whatever, and the ordinance will remain in
full force, and the payment of the tax be enforced unlessthe
city council shall voluntarily repeal it, and revoke the order
to collect the tax. -The judgment qf this Court-is; therefore,
no more than an opinion expressed upon an abstract question, ind in -its nature and effect only monitory.
In considering this case on the merits, it is to be borne in
mind, that this ordinance of the city council is subject to be
repealed by the-legislature of South Carolina, and not having
been done, we inust consider it as having-tacitly received
the sanction ofthe legislature, and comes before us, therefore,
-with all the force- and authority of a state law, and involves
one of those delicate and difficult inquiries of conflicting
powers between the general and state governments.
It isliessary, in the first-:place, that we should understand
h'e true character of this tax. Much importance seemed to

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Weston and others

•475

,s. The City Council of Charleston.]

be attached to this, both in the court below and on the ar.&ument here. In the opinion of the minority of the state
court, which has been submitted to us by the appellants'
council as a.part of his argument, it is said, "this ordinance
does not affect to regard the tax as an income tax. It is a
tqx upon'the United States stock eo nomine, As it is not
a tax on income, it is unnecessary to inquire, if the city
council or a state have the power to tax income, and include
therein the interest received on United States stock. The.
inquiry is, whethdr there is' any such power to tax United
States stock eo nomine." This distinbtion being so emphatically relied upon by the minority of the Court, it is a fair
.inference, that if-it had been considered a tax on'income,
it would not be objectionable on constitutional grounds.
What are we to understand by its being a tax o~n United
States stock eo nomine . Certainly, nothing. more than that
it is enumerated as one description, in a long list of specified
property subject to taxation.
We have not the ordinance at large before us, but the
clause upon which the question arises, is stated as follows:
All personal estate, consisting of bonds,.notes, insurance
stock, &c. &c. six and seven per cent. stock of the United
States, or other obligitions, upon which interest has been,
or will be received during the year, over and above the interest which has been paid, twenty-five cents on every bun,dred dollars. -There is excepted out of this enumeration,
stock of the state, stock of the city, and bank stock. But
this exception cannot certainly affect the piesent question.
No part of the constitution of the United States, prohibits
the states from exempting from taxation certain. species of
.property, according to their own views of policy or expediency.
What then is the ordinance in substance .9 It is a taxupbn. the net income of interest, upon money secured by.
bonds, notes, insurance stock, six and seven per cent. stock
of the United States, or other obligations, upon wbich iiierest has been received, &c. It is the net interest received
upon iwhiNt the tax is laid. For the ordinance declares the
tax shaU be on the interest received over and above that

47.6

SUPREME COURT.
[Wesion and others vs. The.City Coucil 6f Charleston.]

which has been paid. For example• he who receives $1000
interest, and pays out $500 in'terest, istaxed only upon-the
balance. It is, therefore, a gene'ral, tax upon an income -from
money at.interest, and this too only included as one item.4i
-the enumeration of taxable property. It is not an objection
that can be nade' here, if any where, that the tax is not upon
the Whole income. It is a- tax, general in, itsapplication to
income, frbm interest derived from investments of every description (with the exception'mentioned)-.and money.on"loan.
It cannot be considered as. an exorbitant tax, or in any
manner partaking of*the character of a penalty. It being
only a tax'of a quarter of one per cent.
If the objection to this tax is to be sustained, it must-be
on the broad ground that stock of the United States isnot
taxable in any. shape or manner whatever; that it is not to
- be included in the, estimate of property subject to taxation:
and that I understand is the extent to which a .majority of
this Court mean to carry the exemption. As I-am unable to
come to this conclusion, and it being a constitutional question of vital importance; I am constrained to dissent from
'the opinio of the Court, ana, contrary to my usual -practice.in ordinary cases, briefly to assign my reasons.
I shall, for the rdason already mentioned, consider this
ordinance as standing upon the same grounds precisely as
if it had been a law of'ihe state of South Carolina.
It is not pretended. that there is any express- prohibition
in the constitution of-the United.States, which -has been violated by this law.
.The only expiess limitation-to the power.of the individual
states, to lay and collect taxes, is to be found in the 16th
section of the first article of the constitution. "Nostate
shall, without the consent of congress, lay any imposts or
duities on Ihnpnrts or exports, except what may. be ibsolately
necessary for executing 'its inspection laws,-&c: No state
shall, without the consent of congress, ]ay-gny, duty of tonnage." The fax in question' can certainly not fall -within
either 'of these prohibitionsi.
The objection to the tax is rested chiefly, if not entirely,
upon that phrt-of the 8th iection .of th. first article, which

JANUARY .TERMW

829.

[Weaton and others vs. The City C.unei'of Charleston.]

gives to congress the power "-tb borrow meneyof thie etedit
of the-.United -States."' And it is said that to permit the,
states to tax th&stock, might, by possibility, sometimes embarrass the United States in procuring loans. -In the, examination of-the powers of the'general governthent uinder the
constitution," The Federalist" is often referred to as a work
of high authority on questions of this-kind and the author
has seldom been chargediwith surteiidering any powers that
cam be brought fairly within.the letter-or spirit of the. constitution. -In No. 32 of that work, the -writer, in. discussing
the subject of taxation, and the "onflicts that -might arise
between the general andstate governments, say j "Although
I ain' of opinion that there would be no -real dangeirof 'the
consequences to the'state g.Sveihments, which--seenm to be
apprehended from a power in the union t6 control them in
the levies of money, yet I am willi'ng fo allow, in its fill extent, the justnegs'of-the 'reasoning, which reqtiires that the
individual states should p6ssess an independent ind' uncontrollable authority to raise theii own revenues for the -supply
of their own wants.- And making 'tliis coficession, I. affirm,
that (*ith -the sole exception of duties -on imports and expbrts) they would, under the plan'of the convention, retain
that authority, in the most absoltte and unqualified -sense;
and- that an: attemrpt on the part of the' national gbvernmentto abridge- them in--the exercise of it, would be a violent
rsumption of 1ower, unwarranted'by any article or clause
of its constitution. That a negation of the authority of the
states to impose taxes on imports and exports , is adn affirmane'e -oftheir atithority to impose them- on all other- articles.
That it-is not a mere possibilityrofincanveniene inthe exedcis -of powers, but an immediate constitutional repugnancy, that can by implication alienate and extinguish a
pre-existing right of sovereignty."
"The power of the general- government'to borrow money.
-on the credit of thie United Sfties .is- not only an express
power granted to congress, but'ine that-it inust have been
fdrdseert would be brought into prActical operation, and
that-stock would of -course- be created; and vet it never
entered into'tho discriminating mind of the writer referrd-

478

SUPREME COURT.
EWeston ano others vs. the City .4ouncil of.Chauleston.]

to, that merely investing -property, subject to taxation, in
stock of the United States, w6uld withdraw the property
from taxation. ' it is said, the credit of the United States is
a creation of the general, government, which did not exist
until they brought it into being; and in the production of
which the state governments did not participate ; that' the
states could not tax it before the constitution was fQrmed,
for it did not exist. This view of the subject is cauldlated
to make an erroneous impression. It is true'it did not exist
in the shape of stock, but the property existed in some other
form. No one procures stock without exchanging for it an
equivalent in money or some other property; all which was,
doubtless, subject to the payment of taxes. Exemption
from taxation may hold out an inducement to invest property in stock of the United States, and might, possibly,
enable the government to procure loans with more facility,.
arid perhaps on better terms. But this possible, or even
certain benefit to the United States, cannot extinguish preexisting state rights. To consider this a tax upon the means
employed by the general government for carrying on its
operations, is, certainly very great refinement. It is not a
tax that operates directly upon any power or credit of the
United States. The utmost extent to 'which the most
watchful jealousy can lead is,that it may, by possibility,
prevent the government from.borrowing money on quite so
good terms. And. even this inconvenience is extremely
questionable; for the stock only pays the same tax that the
money with which it was purchased did. And whether the
property exists in one form or the other, would seem to be
matter of very little importance to the owner. But great
.injustice is 'done to 'others, by exempting men who are
living upon the interest of their money, invested in stock of
the United States, from the payment of taxes; thereby establishing a privileged class of public creditors,' who, though
living under the protection of te government, are exempted from bearing any of its burthens.. A construction of the
constitution, drawing after it such consequences, ought to be
very palpable before itis adopted.
But, it seems to me, that the right of the states to tax pro-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Weston and others vs. The City Council of Charleston,]

perty of this description is admitted by the Court, in the case
of M'Cullough'vs. The state of Maryland, 4 Wkat. 436.
The Court there considered the tax imposed directly upon
the Operations of the bank, which was employed, by the government as one of the means.of carrying into execution its
constitutional powers; and in summing, up the result, it is
-said, the states have no power by taxation, ortotherwise, to
retard, impede, burthen, or in any manner control the operations of the constitutional laws of congress; to carry into
.execution the powers vested in the general government; and
yet, the Court say this opinion does'not extend to a tax paid
by the real property of the bank, in common-with the other
real property within the state, nor to a tax imposed on the
interest which the-citizens of Maryland may'hold in the bank,
in common with other property of the same.description
throughout the state.
In the *casenow before us, the tax is-not direct upon any
means used by the goverrnent to carry on its operation. It
is only a -tax *upon property acquired through one of the
means employed by the government to carry on its operations, viz. the power of borrowing morley upon the credit of
the United States ;.and it is not perceived how any just distinction can be made in this respect, between bank stodk,
and stock of the United States; both ard acquired through
the medium of means employed by the government in carrying on its operations; and both are held as private property; and it is immaterial to the present question in what manner it was acquired.
.The broad proposition (laid down i the case of M'Cul-.
lough v8. The state of Maryland) that the states cannot tax
any, instrument or-means used by the general governnient in
'the exectition of its powers, must'be unceers'tood as referring
to a direct tax upon suchmeans or instrument; and that such
was the understanding of the Court, is to.be inferred from
the exemption of bank' stock -from the operation of the rule;
and the parallel cases put to illustrate the application of the
,doctrine lead to the same conclusion. Thus it is said the
states cannot tax the mint.; but this does not imply ihat. they
may not tax the:money coined at the mint, .when held and
owned by individuals. Again, it is said. the states cannot

SUPREME COURYT.
[Westo'n and others vs.Tne City Coucil of Charleston.]

'tax a patent right; but if the patentee, from the sale or use
of his patent has acquired property, or is receiving an income,
it-could not be intended to say that such property or income
cannot be taken into the estimate of his taxable property.
The unqualified proposition that a sfate cannot directly or
indirectly tax any instrument or means employed by. the
general government in -the execution of its powers, cannot
be literally sustained. Congress has power to raise armies,
such armies are made up .of officers and soldiers, and ari
instruments employed by the governinent in executing its
powers; .and although the army, as such cannot be taxed,
yet it will not be claimed, that all such officers and soldiers
are exempt from state taxation. Upon the whole, considering that the tdi in question is a general tax upon the interest
of money on loan, I cannot think it any violation of the constitution. of' the United States, to includb therein interest
accruing from stock of the United States.
I am accordingly of opinion, that there is no error in the
opinion of the state court.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the constitutional court of the state of South
Carolina, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
.whereof, -thils Colwt is. of opinion; that there is error in the
judgmenf of the said court in this, that the. said court decided that an ordinance passed by the city council of Charleston for the year 1823 entitled, an ordinance to raise sup'plies for the i'se of the city of Charleston for the year 1823, is$
so far as the same imposes a tax on the six 'and seven per cent..
stock of the United States, consistent with the constitution
of .the United States. Whereas, it is: the opinion of this
Coiurt,.that so much of the said ordinance as imposes the
said tax, 'is repugnant, to the. constitution of the 'United
Slates' and void. Whereupon it is, considered, ordered and
adjudged by this Court, that:the said judgment be, and the
same- is hereby reversed and annulled, and that. the said
cause be, and thc same is hereby remanded to the'said constitutimnal court forthe state of South Carolina, that such

further proceedings may be haft therein as may consist'with
IVa and justi&.-

