&S

SUPREME COURT.*

WnLLvx C. GAXminu vs. JoiiN A. CQLLINs'ET AL.
Where the question upon the construction of the statute o'f
a state relative to
real property, has been settled by any judicial decision in the statewhere the lid
lies; this Court, upon the uniform principles adopted by it, would recognise tha,
decislon as a part of the local law. [85]
The statute of descents of Rhode Island, of 1822, enacts, ",that when any
person having title-to any real estate of inheritance shall die intestate as to such
estate, it shall descend, tnd pass in equal portions to his or her kindred in the
following course." It then provides, "if there be no father, then to the mother,
brother, and sister of such intestate, and their descendants, or such of theni as
there be ;" and then declares',/in the nature of a proviso, that, "when the title to
any estate of inheritance, as to which the person having such title
shall (lie intestate, came by descent, gift, or.devise from the parent or other kindred of the intestate, and such intestate die without children; such estate shall go-to the kin
next to the intestate, of the blood (f the'person from whom such estate came or
descended, if any there be.".
An estate situated in Rhode Island, was devised by John Co~llns, to his daughter, Mary Collins, in fee; Mary Collins intermarried with Caleb Gardner, and
upon her death, in 1806, the estate descdnded to her three children, John, George,
and Mary C. Gardner. John and George Gardner died intestate and without issue, and Mary C. Gardner, as heir to her brothers, became seised of the whole
estate, and died in 1822. Held, that under the provisions of the law of descent6
of Rhode Island, two-thirds of the estate of Mary C. Gardner descended to Samuel F. Gardner, Eliza Phillips, formerly Eliza Gardner, and Mary Clarke, formerly Mary Gardner, children of Caleb Gardner by a former marriage; they being
brothers and sisters of the half blood of Mary C. Gardner; it being admitted that
1he remaining one-third, which Mary C. Gardner took by immediate descent from
her motherbelongs to the heirs of the whol6 blood-of John Collins. [86]
The phrase "of the blood . in the statute, includes the half blood. This'i 5
the natural meaning of the word "blood," standing alrne, and.unexplained by'
any cpntext. A half brother or sister.is of the blood of the intestate; for each of
them has soine of the blood of a common parent in his or her veins. A person
is with the most strict propriety of language affirmed to be of the blood of another,
who has any, however small a portion, of the same blood derived from a common ancestor. In the common law, the word " 'blood" is used in the same
sense. Whenever it is intended to express any qualification, the word whole
or h¢lf blood is generally used to designate it, or.the qualification is implied from
the context, or known principles of law. [87]
A descent from a parent to a child cannot be construed to mean a descent
through, and not from a parent. So a gift or devise from a parent, must be conStrup.d to mean a gift or-devise by theact bf that parent, and not by that of some
other ancestor more remote passing through the parent. -[90]
It is true, that'in a sinse an estate may be said to rome by descent from a remote ancestor to a pe!rson upon whoh it has devolved, through many intermediatb'descents. .But this, if not loose language, is not that sense which is ordinarily annexed to the terms.. When 'an estate is said to have descended from A.

JANUARY TERM. 1829
[Gardner vs. ollins ef-ah.
to B., the natural and obvious fheaning of the words is, that it is an immediate
descent from A. to B. [91]
At the common law,.a man might sometimes inherit who was of the whole
blood of the intestate, who could'not hive inherited from the first purchaser. As
in the case of a purchase by a son who 'dies. without issoe, and his uicie inherits
the same, and dies without issue; the father may inherit'the same from the.uncle,
although he could not inherit from his own son. [93]

IN the circuit couit of the United States-for the -district
of Rhode Island, the plaintiff, William C. Collins, instituted
an action of ejectment for the recovery Pf two-thirds of certain real estate in the state of Rhode Island, of which:Mary.
C. Gardner died seised and intestate.
The facts of the case agreed up6n were as follows:
"The estate in question, two-thirds of which isdemanded
by the plaintiff, in his said writ, was the estate in fee simple
of the late John Collins, esq. iieceased, the father.of the defendant, and the purch(ser of said estate. That the said
late John -Collins died in 1817, -leaving lawful issue, viz.
John A. Collins, Abigail Warren, and Mary \Collins; and
leaving a last will and testament, wherein andwh'erebyi he
'ievised" the estate in question to his ,daughter, the said
Mary Collins, in fee simple; who became seised and p6ssessed thereof accordingly, and continued s6 -seised and
possessed thereof to the time of her death, viz. the 2d of October 1806, and died intestate. That the said Mary Collins
intermarried with" Caleb Gardner, on or ubout the ,-day
of
and at her death left lawful issue, viz. John
Collins Gardner, George Gardner, and Mary. C. Gardner.
The said John Collins Gardner died the 17th of November
1806, aged about, of course intestate, and without
issue. The said George Gardner died the 18th of Septemyears, of course intestate, arid
ber 1811, aged about
without issue. The said Mary C. Gardner died the 31st of
, intestate and withDecember 1822, aged about
out'issue. That, at the death of-their mother, the said JohnCollins Gardner, George Gardneri,ahd Mary C. Gardner, took
from their said mother the said estate, as her heirs at law, in
equal parts, and became seised and, possessed of the same
accordingly, in fee .simple, and continued so seised and possessed till the death of the said John Collins Gardner, viz.
-

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Cqlrins et al.]

till the 17th of November 1806. That, thereupon, his part
of the said estate deseended to and vested in his surviving
brother and sister, viz. George Gardner and Mary C. Gardner, in fee simple; in equal moieties; and thereupon the said
George Gardner and Mary C. Gardner became seised and
possessed of the estate in question, in equal a'nd undivided
moieties, and fee simple, and so continued seised' and possessed till the death of the s'aid George Gardner, the 18th of
September 1811. .That, thereupon, his part of said estate
descended to and vested in his sister the said Alary C. Gardner, in fee simple, and she became seised and possessed of
the same accordingly, and thereby became seised and possessed of the whole estate in question, in fee simple; and so
continued seised and possessed to t ie time of her death, viz.
to the 31st of December 1822. That, at the death of the
said Mary C. Gardner, the defendants, viz. the said John A.
Collins and Abigail Warren went into possession of the
estate ia.question, claiming to be the heirs of the said Mary C.
.Gardner; and the defendants have continued possessed thereof, claiming it as their inheritance without interruption or
adverse claim, till the'plaintiff's suit as aforesaid.
That the plaintiff, by deeds duly executed, became seised
and possessed of all the rightand title of the said Samuel
F. Gardner, Eliza Phillips, and Mary Clarke, in and to the
demanded premises. The plaintiff and Samuel F. Gardner
and Eliza Phillips are children of the said Caleb Gardner by
a former marriage. That the said Mary Clarke is -also a
child of said Caleb Gardner, by a former marriage, and are
brother and sister of the half blood to the said Mary C.
Gardner. That the said plaintiff and Samuel IF.
Gardner,
Eliza Phillips and Mary'Clarke, are not. of kin to the said
-late John Collins, esq. deceased, and have not any' of his
blood in their veins. , And if, upbn'the foregoingcfats, the
court shall be of opinion that the plaintiff, and tliose under
whom he claims, are heirs. at law of the said Mary C. Gardner, and entitled to said estate, then judgment to be given
for the plaintiff; but, if not, then jutdgment to be rendered
for the said defendant."
The statute of Rhode Island upon which the plaintiffs in

JANUARY TERM 18,9.

01

[Gardner vs. Collins et al.1

the ejectment claimed to recover, was paised in January
1822,.and is entitled,
"n act directingU descent of intestateestates, and the settlemeq t ereof, and for other purposes therein mentioned.
"SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the generaZ assembjl], and by

thMmuthority thereof it ise acted,.That heficeforth when any
person having title to any'real estate of inheritance shall die
intestate as to such estate, it shall descend and pass, in equal
portions, to 'his or herkindred in the'fllowing course:,
To his or piar children, or their descendants, ifany there be:
If there be no childie. nor their descendants, then to the
father of such' intestate:
If t'here be no father; then to the mother, brothers and Sigters of such intestate, and their descendants, or such of them
as there be :
If there be no mother, nor brother, nor sister nor theii
descendants, the inheritance'shall go in equal moieties to'
the paternal and maternal kindred, each in the-folIowing
course:
First to the gr~pdfather:
If there be notrandfather, then to the grandmother, uncles and aunts, on the same side, and their descendants, or
such of them as there be:
If there be no grandmother, uncle nor aunt, iior their descendants, then' to the great-grandfathers, or great-grandfather if there be but one:
If there be no great-grandfather, then to-the great-grandmothers, or great-grandmother if there be but one, and. e
brothers and sisters of the grandfathers and grandmothers,
and their descendants, or such of them 'as. there be, and so
on in other eases without end; passing to the nearest.lineal
male ancestors, and for want 6f them, to the lineal female
ancestors, in the same d~gree, and the descendants of such
male and female lineal ancestors, or sueh of them as there be.But no right in the inheritance -shall -accrue to any per-.
.sons whatsoever, other tfian to the childrea.of the intestate,.
unless such persons be in being, and capable 'in law to take,
as heirs, at the time ofthe intestate's death.
And when herein the inheritance is directed to go.by nioie-.

SUPMEME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

ties to the paternal and maternal kindred, if there be no
such kindred on the one part, the whole shall go to the other
part; and if there be no kindred, either on the one part or
the other, -the whole shall go to the husband or wife of the
intestate; and if the wife or husband be dead, it shall go to
his or her kindred in the like course as if such husband or
wife had survived the intestate, and then died entitled to the
estate
The descendants of any person deceased, shall inherit the
estate which such person would have inherited, had such
,person survived the intestate.

When the title to any real estate of inheritanceas to which
the person having such title shall die intestate, came by descent, gift or devise, from the piarent or other kindred of the
intestate, and such intestate die without children,such estate
shall go to the kin next to the intestate, of the blood of the
person from whom such estate came or descended, ifany
there be."
For some time prior to the passage of this act, the law of
descents of Rhode Island was regulated by an act of 1798,
the first section of which nearly resembles the clause in the
statute of 1822. It was as follows:
"When the title of,any real estate of inheritance, as to
which the person having such title, shall die intestate, came
by descent, gift, or devise, fro mltle -parent or other kindred
of the intestate, and such intestate die without children,
such estate shall go to the next of kin of the intestate of the
blood of the Derson from whom -such estate came or descended."
The judges of the circuit court of Rhode Island, having
divided in opinion upon the case, the decision was certified to this Court for its decision
Nit Whipple, for the plaintiff, made the following points.
* 1. That vt common law. the' phrase "of the blood," in-

cludes "the half blood."
2. That if this is not the case at common law, the phrase
"of the blood," as it is used in ihe statute of Rhode Island,

necessarily includes the half blood.

JANUARY TERM 1629.
[Gardner vs. Collins et aL.]

:3.
That the person whose blood is* referred to in the statute, as. constituting "the stock of descent," is that kindred
from whom the intestate derived the estate, by immediate
descent; to wit, the brothers, and not the mother of the intestate, Mary C. Gardner.
He argued, that the act of the legislature of Rhode Island
gives the estate " to the next of kin of the intestate,- of the
blood of the person from whom such estate came or descended;" and by the tet of 1822, there is added, "if any
there be."
The defendants contend, that "1the blood," ex vi termini,
means the whole.blood; because they assert this to be the
meaning at common law.
For tile plaintiff, it is claimed that. neither at the common
laW, nor by the proper construction of the statute of Rhode
Island, the whole blood is intended; and that as the plaintiff
claims as half blood, and as representing those who were of
the half blood of Mary C. Gardner, the'person last seised; the
whole question in the cause, and which alone is to be decided by this Court, depends upon a proper construction of the
law of Rhode Island of 1822.
In order to arrive at a s6und conclusion upon the case, it
may be proper to examine wihat is the meaning of the word:
law.
blood at common
Udei the sixth canon of desecnts, in reference to the
intestate, the word "whole" is added, which would not have
been necessary if that was'the natural import of the term.
In reference to purchasersthe word. " blood" simply is used;
which means, when used alone, half as well awbhole blood.
Iii a note to Chitty's Blackstone's Commentaries, Vol. II.
p.5; is the ThlBacvng - nguage.
"It should here-be "oicre that though, it is necessary
that a person who would.Succeed, must show himelf to b6
of the blood of She first purohaser;, yet, where the persons .
who inherit succeed or. derive title to the inheritance by
virtue of remote and interrfiediate descents from the purchaser, it will be sufficient-if Ithey be related by hatf blood
onily to the purchaser, or to such other remote and intermediate ancestors, who were formerly and- intermediately

SUPREME COURT.
(Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

seised of the inheritance, in the regular course of descent
from the purchaser; provided, according to the rule which
follows, they are the worthiest legal relatives of the whole
blood, to the person last seised." Robinson on Inheritance,
45, is cited. He mighl have cited better authority.,
In I Co. Litt. sec. 8, p. 14, b. it issaid,
"But if-there be two brothers by divers ventres, and the
eldest is seised of land-in fee and die without issue, and
his uncle-enter as next of kin to him, who also dies without
issue; now the younger son may have the land*as heir tothe
uncle, for he is of the whole blood to him, albeit he .be but
of the half blood of his elder brother."
What is the meaning of the terms "of the blood," as
used in the statuteq
The object of the provision was to continue the estate in
the blood of the person from whom it descended; to find a
stock of inheritance, not to establish a new rule of descent.
The provision has no,application, except to a*case where
the purchaser or preceding holder has already transmitted
it to his heirs. Under the enacting clause, the half blood
take from the purchaser on the first descent. An heir of the
purcha er dies, will not the same blood take from the heir
thai took from the ancestor!
It is to go to the kin, that is the whole or half blood of
the intestate, of the whole blood of the purchaser. According.
to the argument for the defendant, this reverses the common law; which gives to the whole blood of the intestate,
of the whole or half blood of the purchasei.
After giving it to the half blood on the first descent, you
can never narrow the capacity of inheritance. You may
enlarge it as the common law does, but not give in the first
descent and lake away in the second.
The family, the blood of the purchaser, is-his whole and
half blood. The object is to continue the estate in the blood.
The second quesiion is, who is "the person" who is t6
constitute the stock of descent, "the first purchaser, or the
last ancestor."
We agree that the- object of the statute was to preserve
d&tates in families. We disagree as to the extent of the

JANUARY -TERM 1829

65

[Gardner vs. Collins et rl.]

object. 'What but the language of the act can determine
that question. It is not the identity but th)e extent of the
object, about which we differ. The former might be determined'by other considerations, the latter by nothing but the
words of the act.
2. The acts of 1798 and 18202, admit of two readings.
"To such of the next of kin of the intestate as are of the
blood of the person from whom such right, title or interest
came or descended ;" or "to the nearest of such of the kin of
the intestate as are of the blood," &c. The second reading
will, in most cases, -gvepit to a more remote relation -of the
inteitate than the first; and "as the next of kin is the:pri-"
mary object of the statute, the former reading should be
preferred.
3. Suppose we adopt the latter, however. If first purchaser
had been intended, why not expressedq If the principle, why
not the language of the common law! Its meaning is well
settled and comprehensive. Technical words are adopted, as
in other. statutes. It was drawn by lawyers, who generally,
usetechnicalwordsf--not in haste. Why use-eightnew words
to express the meaning of three old ones ?
A studious rejection of the words,'proves that the principle
was not :intended to be adopted.
Other leigislatures have made the same mistake- Tley
intended the first purchidser if we did,'for their langnage is
similar. ,Not a statute in the union except-that of the state
of New. York-admits the first purch.aser. A reference to the
statutes of Connecticut, 7'tew York, .JVw .r'sey and Penisylvania, will 'maintain this positibn.
4. Why. connect "descent, gift and devise" together, if
there is,-.in fact, no connecting -medium-between them 1'In
"-the case of gift.and devise, the last uncestor is agreed to be
the stok' "If he is not also in the ether-case of descent,
wha40-i.there in common between them ? Why use them in
connection, wlen they express - two sephrate principles,
.establish two distinct rules, and traiisfer the estate to. two
different sets of heirs& In those thre' cases, the same pers.on;
shall be the stock of'descent. This-is common to them all.
connects them in principle,.nd therefore they are connected
Vor,. II.-T

66

SUPREME COURT,
[Gardner vs. Collins.et aL]

in language We never speak of a multitude, unless to say
something applicable to a multitude. When something is
intended applicable to a part,and something else applicable
to another part, we separate them in our discourse.
Something then was intended, equally'applicable to all
the three modes of transmission; and this shows that it can
be nothing else but the same stock of descent. Something
was to be done, equally applicable to all; for the statute
directs what shall be done in those three cases. What is it9
The answer is, the same stock of descent. There is a difference between'the description and the dieposition of the
estate., The word or, belongs to the former. It has nothing
,to do either distributively, or collectively, wifh 'the latter.
Such estate shall go, &c. What estate?. The estate which
came by descent, gift or devise. There is but one estate,
and one channel for it to pass.
5. To 'show the true meaning, and necessary construction
of th4 words that are used.
The -words,." parent 'or other" kindred," embrace the
br6ther. Parentincludeq father and mother. dll the other
kindred are included under the othet terms. General words
comprehending particulars, are the same as an enumeration.
of particulars. The order in which they stand is of-no importancTd. "From the brother or other kindred," would be
the same as those now used.
If a descent from all is provided for, the same as if
enumerated; an immediate descent is intended. They agree
that an immediate descent in the case of gift and. devise is
intended; and in some cases of descent, as an immediate
descent-froni thepurchaser; can both be intended! . Does
not an immediate,' exclude an intermediate descent!. Such
a descent must come through those kindred who'are entitled
'to be stocks of descent.
No-other qualification is requireca tlian to be of the
kindred. The words are not to such of the kindred as are
first purchasers.Tn the preface of Judge- Swift's Treatise on Descents,, p.
ITJ"
it is said in relation to our statutes; "But in the lau of
descents therC is an almost total change of. the common

JANUARY TERM 1829
[Gardner vs;Collins et al.]

law. It is radically new in each state,' bearing -no resemblance to the common-law in most. of the states, and having
.great and essential differences in all."
The -laiws of descent in every state in the union, except
New York and New Jersey, are altogether different from
the common law.
. The case of Hall vs. Jacobs, in 4 Harris John. Rep.
249, was this. The father devises to his'tliree children, A..
B. and C. and dies. A. and B. die intestate, and their shares
descend to C.
The court say, that the statute provides for three cases;
1. Estates descended on the part of the father. 2. Estates
descended on the part of the mother. 3. Estates by purchase. This case is neither: "but 'it vested in the intestate
by immediate descent from his. biother and sister, a course
of descent expressly directed by-the act of assembly in the
.cage-of a purchaser, and is knowni also to the commoni law."
In Stewart's'Lessee vs. Evans, 3 Harris§- John. 287, an
bstatie descended to John Stewart's -two children, Jane. and
Alexander. Jane died, and her portion descended to Alex.ander, who -also died intestate.' The-question was, whether
this estate camq to the intestate, on.thepart of the father,
-or on the part. of the sister.- The defendant's counsel
agreed,-" that it did not comaefrom or through the father,
yet that'it was on the part of tje father;-" andso the court
decided without giving.their reasons.
In the case of -Shippen vs. Izard, I Serg. 4' Rlawle, 2,25,
Tilghman, chief -justice, says, " The words- on the part of
thb father, andfrom the .father, are so different, -that .1 cannot conceive how the former can be restricted to the father
alone without violence to their plain meaning. Not only
is there a difference in commion, phrase,. but in legal acceptation; for the phrase, on the part of the'father, is familiar
o The common law, and must have been borrowed from
that source by the persons who drew this act of assembly.
That it comprehends not only the father but all the- ancestors of the fathir, -both 'paternal and maternal, atftjears
by the citation of the plaintiff's counsel from Co. Litt.
12.,a." Yate:, justice, Yvas of the same opinion.

68

SUPREME COURT
[Gardner vs- Collins et a].]

The act of Virginia of 1793, provides, that when an infant died seised of property, which descended " from the
father," the maternal kindred. shoul;l be excluded.
In 1 .Munford's Rep. i83, the case of Tomlinson.vs. Dilliard, decided in'3 C'all'sRep. 120, was reviewed. The case
of Wyatt vs. Muse and wife, also came before the court.
The case was a descent from the father to his children,
and from a deceased child to the intestate. ' The court decided that the mother, ox her issue, were not excluded,
where the property was derived, not immediately, but by
-intervening succession from the father.. (Cited also, the
opiniob., of Justice Tucker, 215.) In p. 197, Mr Justice
Tucker cites a former decision, and says; " In that case it
was determined, that Mrs Gee, the mother of Sarah Jones,
was entitled to inherit lands from the daughter, who died
an infant, which she had derived from .her brother John
Norfleet; to whom the same were devised by his father, who
was also the father of Sarah Jones. In that case, however,
J.ohn Norfleet had attained his age of twenty.-one years; but
I.was of opinion, and understood the rest of the judges who
sat in the cause.to. concur with me in that.opinion, that the
mother might have inherited these lands, although John
Norfleet had not attained his age of twenty-one years; for
that the descent from the father to the daughter was not immediate but broken, and therefore not within the excepltions
contained in the fifth and sixth sections."
The words of the dct under which the above depisions
were made, are as follows: " That where an infant .hall
die without issue, having title to any real estate of inheritance, derived by gift, devise or descent, from the father,
ands.there be living at the death of such infant, his father,
or any brother and sister on the part of the father, or the
paternal grandfather or grandmother of such infant, or any
brother or sister of the father, or any descendant of any of
them; such estate shall descend and pass 'to the paternal
kindred without regard totle mother or maternal kindred
of such infant; in the same manner as if there had been no
mother or materinal kindred."
in sdction sixth there is a similar provision as to estates,

JANUARY TERM 1829.
tGardner vs; Collins et al.]

from the mother, The~e are the words ot the act of 1819;
but they do not in 'thi§ respect differ from the act- of 1792.
Many other d.ecisions may be found, but not exactly to
'the *point. The remarks of Mr Justice Roane, in 3 Call's
Rep. 96, arc worthy of attention.
The case of Hilliard vs. Moore, in 2 -Carolina Law Depository, 590, is exactly, like the case of Collins and Gard-'
ner, .as to its facts. The decision was in favior of the matef-,
nal line, and would have been decisively against us, -had
the .words of their -act rendered such a decision uia-'
voidable. 'The words of the act are, " descended on the
part of the.mother." This decision supports the distinction
taken by Chief Justice Tilghman and Mr Justice Yates,,in
er,. "l~Raw4e, already referred to.
As to the spirit of the act, !o 'contended:
1. The defendants takefOr granted that the object was to
preserve the estate in ilhe family of .Mary Collins.
How do thecy arrive.at this knowledgeq The legislature
havc- not declared their 9bject. They have only pro ided
certain means, and the extent of the object ought to be
measured by those means. "They make the' meaths bend to

-

the supposed object. Because the Object was to- preserve
estates in families to a certain extent, they conclude that an
estate going out of a family defeats the intention. Have
the Court-a 'right to resort to other means than those of
the statute .1 Do they-do so at common law, in order to
prevent an estate's going out of 'a family .
'2. A strQhig -objection to the doctrine of a first purchaser,
is the difficulty of ascertaining him, and the consequent
uncertainty of the rule.
The proofs of 'descents frequently rest in parol. The
defendants take for granted, that the common law means
will prevent the evil of an estate going o'ut o the family.
So uncertain and impossible ii the proof, that tle common
law'has abandoned it, and substituted a rule of law in the
lieu' of actual proof; this is the ixth canon of descents.
In cases of actual descents from a real first purchaser. the
difficulties are the same.

SUPR.EME, a6u.
[Gardner vs. Collins et al

In 2 Bl. Com. it is said: "Yet when an estate has
really descended in a course of inheritance to the person last
seised, the strict rule of the feudal law is still observed; and
none are admitted but the heirs of those throigh whom the
inheritance has passed; ,as if lands come to John Stiles by
descert , from his mother Lucy Baker, no relation of his
father, (as such) shall ever be his heir to these lands.
Here we .may observe, that so far as the feud is really.
antiquum, the law traces it back; and will not suff6r any'to
inherit but the blood of those ancestors from whom the feud
was conveyed to thedlate proprietor.
"But when through length-of time it can trace it no farther, as if it be not known whether his grandfather George
Stiles inherited it from his father. Walter Stiles, or his mother Christiana Smith; or if it appear that his grandfather
was the first purchaser; in either of those cases, the law admits
the descendants of any ancestor of George Stiles, either paternal or maternal, to be in their order the heirs to John
Stiles o.f this estate."'
Agaiii, to show how uncertain a rule that of the first pur'chaser was; "the doctrine of the whole blood (p. 230) was
c.alculated to supply .the frequent impossibility of proving a
descent from the first purchaser. And this purpose it answers
for the most part effectually enough. I speak with these restrictions, because it does not, neither can any other method
answer this purpose entirely."
Suppose three orfour descents with the aid of whole blood,
and sole succession. What could we do towards finding the
purchaser, under half blood and partible inheritances. Let
Blackstone answer: 2 Bi. 201.
"Here then the supply of proof is deficient, and by no
means amounts to a certainty; and the higher the. common
stock is removed, the more will even the probability decrease.
But it must be Observed, that upon the same principles of
calculations, the half blood have a much less chance of being
descended from an unknowri, indefinite, ancestor of the deceased, than the whole blood in the same degree; as in the
first degree the whole. brother of John Stiles is sure to, be

JANUARY TERM 1829
[Gardner vs. Co)lins et al.]

descended from the unknown ancestor; his half brother has
only an even chance, for half John's ancestors are not his.
"So in the second degree, John's uncle of thh whole bloodhas an even chance ; but the chances are three to one against
his uncle of the half blood, for three-fourths of Johi's ancestprs are not his. In like manner, in the third degree, the
chances are.only three to one against John's great uncle of
the whole blood; -but they are seven to one against his uncle
of the half blood. This much less probability of the half
blood's descent from the first purchaser, has occasioned their
general exclusion."
These remarks apply to the7 case of a real descent. Suppose it is not known from whom the grandfather George
Stiles inherited, his father Walter or his mother Ghristiana.
The'whole blood would give an even chance. The half blood
might give only one in four.
Partibleinheritancesincrease the difficulty by the number of descents.
In a country-increasing in population, and freed from the
influence of those principles _in the law of inheritance of
England, which had their origin in feudal times; rules of such
difficult application are impolitic and oppressive.
Another objection to the doctrine of first purchaser is,
that it is inconsistent with an allodial tenuie. If acknowledges a claim in sdme other person than the intestate. This
is an objection to going back at all. But going to the first
purchaser is worse, because he has no claim, either at conimon law or the statute; at common law it was in the lord.
If we give it to any one, give it to him who has some
share of claim.
It sacriifices- the main objects of regard, the kindred of
the intestate in.favour of a subordinate object; the blood of
the purchaser.

--

Among the reasons fbr the construction of the act of the
legislature, claimed by the plaintiff, Mr Whipple nrged, that
t"Descent, gift, and devise," are connected on account
of blood. Whose blood? That of the devisor and devisee,
not that of the purcha.ser. The consideration being their
blood, the reward ought to be to their blood.

SUPREME COURT
[Gardner vs. Collins et Al.]

The three modes of transmission are the acts of the party
The person who bestowed the bounty is the only person
having any claim. His claim -extends only to the person
upon whom .he bestowed the bounty, his heir. He has no
claim on anyfitture descendant, because to him he has not
been liberal.
The.claim then is by the devisor or ancestor, because he
isthe only source of the.bounty.
The estate descen!ds upon his heir or devisee, and him
alone;because he alone is indebted to the ancestor or devisor,
to the extent of the bounty conferrcd, and to no greater extent.
The intestate, Mary C. Gardner, was her mother's heir for
one-third;that was the extent of her bbunty. To her brofhers
for two-thirds. For the same reason that Mary Collins has a
claim for. one-third, the brothers have for two-thirds.
She transmitted her portion of her father's estate to her
children. This gives her a claim upon each. If her children
transmit their portion of her estate, they have the same claim
upon'those to whom they transmit it,
The plaintiff's counsel denied that the construction claimed'by the counsel for the defendant was the received law
of Rhode Island. No case was cited on the argument in
the circuit court to establish such a construction ; afid when
the experience of the bar was appealed to upon the subject,
it was not followed by any evidence that the principles of
construction the defendants asserted, had ever gone into
use in the state, with the sanction of a judicial decision.
While he admitted that the statement of the counsel of the
defendant, that the law was with him by the common understanding of those, who did not from their education or their
situation know what the lawwas; he denied that this, which
might be denominated "street law," could or sliould have
any influence in this Court. The construction which this
Court would give, would be adopte& from other views, and
from higher authorities; the principles of the common law,
and the fair and legal import of the words of the statute.
Mr.Ro Dins, for the defendants..
The common law'of desccnt of England has two lcading

J ANUARY TERM 1829.

72

[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

objects in view; one is to preserve the inheritance ifi the
blood of that family by whom it was originally-acquired:
this is the dictate of nature; for it is an object that approves itself to reason, and recommends itself to the best affections of the human heart: it operates as a, stimulus to
exertion, by furnishing the means and the hope of building
up, and perpetuating a family, and providing for its happiness: it clerishes, by gratifying the love of kindred, a natural and a noble sentiment, and one in which the sentiment
of patriotism itselfhas its root; for the love of country is but
the love of kindred expanded.
The other leading purpose is, to keep the inheritance entire, by keeping -it, for the time being, in a single representative of that family by whom it was acquired: this object
was the offspring of state policy; and by it the sentiments
of nature are more or less controlled.
The pebplE of Rhode Island brought with them from their
*mother country, a fond attachnient to both views; and of
this the proof : that for more than one hundred years, the
law of descent of England was their law. But at length in
1770, they were wbaned froift one of these objects; namely,
-that of keeping the inheritance entire, by keeping it in a
single representativ-. of the familr:_but the other object, that
of keeping the descent of the inheritance in the blood of the
family by whom it had been acquired, they fondly retained,
and still fondly cherish.
This case comes up upon the division of the court below,
as to the interpretation of the statute of descent, passed in
1822", which is the same in substance as the statute passed
in 1798. One interpretation gives the estate in question to
the plaintiff, the other interpretation gives the estate to the
defendants; between the two interpretations lies the conflict
of the cause.
The defendants claim the inheritance of this estate under
a provision of the statute, which is inthese words. viz..
"When the title to any -real estate of inheritance, as to
which the person having suci title shall die intestate, come
by descent, gift, ordevise, from the parent or other kindred
of the intestate, and such intestate die without children, such'
Vol. II.--:K

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Collins et at.]

estate"shall go to the kin next to the intestate, of the blood
.of the-,person from whom suchestate came or descended, if
any there be."
The question is as to the person Teferred to, whose blood
is to inherit. Is it the person from whom the estate originally came or descended- to the intestatel If so, then the
estate goes to the defendants; for they aie the next of kin
to the intestate who are of the blood of that person; it goes
to the"defendants and it keeps the descent of the family inh eritance in the blood *ofthe family, by whom it was acquifed,- and from whom it has descended :and this is one interpretation. -Or, is it the person from whom the estate last
came or descended q If so, then tie estate goes to the plaintiff; for though th6 defendants are of the blood of that person, and of kin to'that person as well as the plaintiff, yet
the plaintiff is nearer of'kin to that person; it goes to the
plaintiff, and the family inheritance goes out of the blood of
that family'by whom it was acquired, and frQm whom it has
descended, into the blood of another and a foreign.family;
hereafter to descend in the blood of that foreign-family: and
this is the oiher-interpretation.
* Now, "blood of the person from whom such estate bame or
descended". may mean either the jperson from whomit originally came or, descended, 'or the person from whom it last
came or descended: neither the word .originally, -ior the
wo'd last is used, but either may be understood as implied,
.asi the case may require; andithat "
Wrd must be understood
as implied which is necessary toexpress that meaning That
-meaning must be Adopt!d khich was-the meaning of-the
legislature.'- Btut one way 'of settling what-was. the'meaning of the legislature in this case ig known, and that is, 'by
'determining what was the. object of the "legislature in making, this provision. Doubtless, the legislature intended those
words to be understood in that sense which is necessary to
the accomplishment of their object.. ay that the object was
to preserve the family inheritance in the blood of that family by whom it had bee-acquired, and fromwhom it had
descended'; and- our con.struction must be adopted, in order
to'dffectuate that object; for. if it is not, and -the other .con-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Gardner vs. Collins et,al.]

struction is adopted, that object must be defeated. It would
be .defeated in the present instance at once; it must be in all
'cases s6oner or later.
Even, if there were any verbal or literal difficulties- in
the way of our construction, and none are perceived, they
must give way when opposed to the intention of, the legislature; for it is a settled -rule of law, " that what is within
the'letter of.a statute is not within the statute, if it be not
within'the intention of the legislature." . The construction
claimed by the defendants appears the 'Most natural of the
two; and must so appear to every mind accutstomed to that
law of inheritafice, which :our construction supposes. : In
expressing this idea'we would not think of using the wiord
originally; w6 would understand that'word as .implied, and
would 'suppose that every'body- would understand it as
implied.

But it is-enough that these -words are suseeptible of either
interpretation; and that the object of the legislature in
making that provision, is to determine which of them is the
true interpretation.
That the olbject of the legislature-wasAo preserve andperpetuate the family inheritancein the:blood of the family,
by whom it was originally acquired, appears- As evident asif they had so said in so many words.
It is obvious in the first place from the.distinction which

the stattite makes between estafes acquired' by the intestate,
and estates derived to the intestate from parent or 'other
kindred. As to all estates acquired by the intestate, or de-"
rived to hiti from any person, other than parent -or 6ther
" kindred; the statute makes the intestate the stock of inhe-.
ritance, and hi next of-kin his heir at law. But as to all
estates'derived ti)
th&intestate from parent or other kindred,..
by descent, gift, or devise; the statute makes the person,
from whom the estate came or descended, the stock of i 'herit,-nce; and it makes the next of kin t6othe ibtestate,
who is of theblood of that person, the heir at law..- Now,
it is inquired, what'possible object could there haye- been
for this distinction, but that of keeping the family inherit-'
ance in the'blood of the family'!

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

But further, the same distinction is made between estates
derived, and derived in the same. mannier too, to the intestate. If the estate is derived, to the intestate, by descent,
gift or devise; but not derived from a parent, or other kindred ; he is made the stock of inheritance, and his next of
kin is made his heir at'law. But if the estate is derived to
him, from a parent or other kindred by descent or devise,
then the person from whom it came or descended is made
the stock of inheritance; and the next of kin, who is of the
blood of that person, is made the heir at law. Providing
then a different stock of descent, and a different rule of
descent, for e~tates derived from a parent or other kindred,
and for those estates only, must have been done to keep the
descent of such estates in-the blood of such parent or other
kindred;
could have been dore with no other-view.
Then itand
is asked, if this, which had always been
an object
of thieir descent law,, was not to remain a provision of their
descent law, why was this provision introduced .at all.
If this object was to be abandoned, this provision wis not
necessary. If this was not the object, and their construetion be the true one, the legislature made a general iule of
descen't;'and then made an exception, to it, by which exception no rational end whatever was to be answered.
It has been said, that it always had been the Wish of the
descent law of that people, to perpetuate the family inheritance in the blood of the family. A- short review of the
history of that law, will prove ,this a correct statement.
The common law of descent of England, was the law of
descent of that people to 1718, without any alteration- or
intermission. This law was secured .by their descent law
up tp that time; for it was one of its great purposes. In 171.
they made a statute of descents, which made the intestate, in
all cases, the stock of inheritance, and his next of kin his
heir at law. But, in the short period of ten years, this statute was repealed, and for.the very reason that this- object
was thereby abandoned. The preamble states, "For at:,
much as the aforesaid act is found by experience to be very
prejudicial by destroying inheritances," " be it therefore

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Gardner vs. Collins et aL.)

enacted," &c. .By destroying inheritances-that is, inheritances as they theretofore had existed, and by which
family estates had been kept in the blood of the family.
This repeal left the common law of descent to revive as thelaw of descent of, that people; by which the first law was
again secured to them, and remained their law of descent
to 1770. In 1770 they made another statute of descent,
but in making which, they were careful to preserve-the object which had been abandoned by the statute of 1718. In
this statute of 1770, they made the intestate,, in all cases,
the stock of inheritance;. but in all collateral inheritances,
they made the next of kin of thefull blood of-the intestate,
the heir at law. As this statute of 1770-made the intestate
in all cases the stock of inheritance, the making the next of
kin of the full blood to the intestate, in all collateral inheritances, the heir at law, was necessary to the plan of
.keeping the descent of the estate in. the blood of the, family.
This restriction of the d~scent in collateral inheritances,
was adopted for this purpose.
This rule,. like the common law rule of descent, would be
attended with some occasional cases of apparent hardship.
This statute continued unaltered. as this provision to, 1798,
'when all the statutes were revised, and this among the rest.
Thd statute of 1798'proposed to accomplish the same purpose, which was accomplished by the statute of 1.70, but
by different means;. and bya modification thatwould avoid
those occasional cases 9f appareni hardship, which resulted
from.the application of the rules established by the statute
of 1770.
The statute of 1798 made.the, intestate the stock of inheritance, and his next.of kin the heir, but not in all cases'as
.did the statute of 1.770; it excepted. cases -derived' to the
intestate by descent, gift or devise, from the parent or other
kindred; and as to those excepted cases, it made the person from whom the estate came or descended, the stock of
inheritance, and made the next of kin to the. intestate of the,
blood of that person the heir at law. By this modificatiorf,
by.making the blood, not the full blood only; of that person

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner-vs. Collins et al.]

the heir at law;"it obviated the hardships occasionally inci-.
dent to the rule established in the statute of 1770.
This statut6 continued to 1822,.when all the statutes were
again revised, and this among the rest. The statute of 1798
is re-enactbd in the statute of 1822, in, substance, differing
only in form. As to all'the cases in which the intestate is
to be the stock of inheritance, or his next of kin to be the
heir; and as to all the excepted cases in which the person
from whom the estate came or descended, is to be the stock
of inheritance, and the blood of that 1ierson to be theheir;
both statutes are the same.
From this- deduction of the history of the law descent of
Rhode lsnahd, which can not be impugned in any one particul .r, but which will be found verified and confirmed
throughout by an examination of that law) it must be admitted'that it has always been the object of that law, to keep
the inheritance in the blood of that family, by whom it.had
been acquired, and from whom it had descended.
A reference to the statutes of 1718, and of 1770, will
verify this exposition-of those statutes..
Again; that such was the design of the. legislature, may
be, and must be inferred from the understanding and the
practice, which has prevailed. in the state on this point. .The
question is practically settled, -though not, judicially, and
settled for such a length of'time, as gives to the practical
settlement all the force of a- final judicial .determination.
For it is the result of an impression, so universal and so decided, as to have precluded all doubt and'-all litigation up
to the origin of this action.
Nor is the statute of 1798 to be considered as a new
statute of descent, introducing and prescribing a course of
descent for the first time: this however it is not; for iti's
to continue only to regulate the ancient- course, fiot to originate a new one. It is mow thirty years since that stattite
was made; and the rule. of descent thereby established, is.
still the rule of descent in the state.' Now all the-collateral
descents, in all the tate during all that time, have been cast
according to the defendant's .construction 'of the statute,
without a question being nade, as to their being rightfully

JANUARY TERM 1829.

79

[Gardner ms.Collins et al.]

cast; and have been, andnow are enjoyed accordingly. Not
an instance of a descent in that state, contrary to this statenient, has been, or can be cited. How-numerous those descentp have leen, is not known; but inthat length of time
-they must have been numerous. This fact is'at once*a proof
of this practical constriction by the whole state ; extending
back" a full quartei of a century, prior to the origin of this
action; and of the mischiefs, which a judicial reversal of this
practical construction would now produce: for it must unsettle every one of those descenti, which possession has not
matured into a perfect title.
We need not go out of this case, to see in the descents
which have occurred in the case, how settled the impression
has been, that the family inheritance must descend in, and-be
.confihed to the blood of the family accdrding to our construction of the statute. t
There was, in the first place, on the death ofJohn Gardner,
in 1806, the descent of his- third part of the estate to his
surviving brother and sister. No itress is laid .upon this;for upon 'both, interpretations, the descent was rightly .cast.
But tien caine the death of George Gardner in 1811, and
the de~cent of his third part, and-of- his half of John's third
part.. On whom was the descent now 'Cast q On Mary the
surviving sistei-; the descent of the whole, as well that part
which George inherited from" his brother John, as that -part
which George inherited from- his 'mother.' The plaintiff
agrees to all this-agrees that she succeeded legally, rightfilly and exclusively, to-the part which George had inherited
from John. If John, the person from whom it last-descended was the stock-of'inhdritance as to this part, the plaintiff
was entitled to, succeed equally with Mary. The plaintiff
himself agrees that-John was not the stock of inheritance as
to this part; for he agreps that he himself was not entitled "
to succeed to any share of that part. The plaintiff himself.
-agrees that the mother,-from whom the estate had originally
descended, was the-stock of inheritance; for lie agrees that"
Mary, her child, alone,.had the right to succeed.-' Then how
can the plaintiff claim tQ inherit fo'm 'Mary, on a prircipl6'
on which he agrees he could not claim to inherit from her'
-

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Collins et aL]

brother George, as to the part which George inherited from
his brother John 9 If the plaintiff could not make John the
stock of inheritance, as to the estate which George inheritea
from his brother John, how can he make Mary the stock of
inheritance, as to the estate which she inherited from her
brother George' He has, in truth, surreidered the very principle in controversy, and left himself no ground to stand on;
for he has made it a matter of record, and the Court are now
called upon to give to the plaintiff an estate, to which he has
agreed, and -agreed on the record that he has no title.
In proof of this position, the Court are referred to the
statement of facts; and especially to that part distinguished
by italics. It reads thus : "I That thereupon (that is, upon
one
the death of George), his part of said estate, (that is.
moiety of the whole estate, including his original third part
who had previously deceased,) that thereupon his (George's)
part, desbended to and irested in, his sister the said Mary C.
Gardner in fee simple; and she became seise-and possessed
of the same accordingly. dnd thereby became seised and
possessed of the whole istate in question infee simple."
The legal effect of this statement, in this case, and upon
this case, is a striking illustration of that familiar, that
settled, that riveted notion, prevalent in Rhode Island in
favour of the principle of descent, which we 'contend for.
The plaintiff's counsel at the time, probably,-were not aware
of its palpabld inconsistency, with the new principle of descent, which they had to contend for;. and unrefleetingly
made the statement, according to their .habitual notions on
the subject.
And the descent itself is another striking illustration of
the same fact. It iook place in 1811, eighteen years ago;
was .acquiesced in then, has been acquiesced in ever since,
and is ratified'even now, so far as a recorded agreement can
ratify it.
Then came the death-of Mary C. Gardner, and the descent
-of the whole estate; of Which she. had'onethird directly
from. her mother, tind -the other two thirds, from her mother,
but-through her~two brothers. On the death of Mary, how
was the descent cast or.supposed to be cast?

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

'That such has been the practical' construction of the statute, must be admitted, as no instance to the contrary hasbeen cited, or can be.
The state of Connecticut have a parallel provision in their
statutet6flescents. Its construction there is considered as
settled, though it never has been judicially settled; it is considered as settled, because long and uniform practice has
settled it. The attention of the Court is invited to the descent law of Connecticut; as it has been said, that the provision in the Rhode Island law was framed by the provision
in that; and the.re is to be found in the statute of 1798, some
internal evidence of the fact. It was long in that state a
vexata questio, whether the words, next of kin, in their then
subsisting statute of descents, did not mean, when applied
to real estate in the collaieral descent, "next of kin to the
intestate of the full blood;" which was much agitated, and
variously decided by their courts; but itwas finally decided,
that next of kin meant, next of kin in the civil law sense or'
the expression; which had no reference to distinction of
blood. It was with a view to preclude this very controversy,
that the Rhode Island statute of 1798, in providing for the
descent of all that part of the intestate's estate which -is
made to descend to the next of kin to the intestate, adds, to
the words next of kin, these seemingly unnecessary words,
"computing according to the degrees of the civil law."
The struggle in that state, about the mearing of -the words
next of kin, it is.believed, was- occasioned by the strong prevalent sentiment 'of that people in favour of keeping the
family inheritance in the blood of the family. For they
were so dis.atisfied with the final judicial .decision, which
frustrated that object; that their legislature afterwards, in the
-first revision of their laws, introduced this special provision-viz.
"Provided that all the real estate of the intesiate, whidh
came to him by descent, gift or devise, from his or her
parent, ancestor, or other kindred, shall belong-equally, to
the brothers and sisters of the intestate, and those who le-.
gally represent them, of the blood of the person or ancestor
frorA whom such. estate came or' descended;" going -on--and
VoL. II.-L

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

-

following out the same principle; if there be not any brother
or sister.
This statute-was made in 1784; therefore soon after the
termination of this controversy. The practical construction of their statute ever since, has been precisely the
praciical construction given to that of Rhode Island; and
there all the estates coming within their proviso, have.uniformly descended to the blood of the person or ancestor from
whom the- estate originally came, whether by descent, gift
or devise. And such is considered as the settled law of that
state ; but how settled !. not by any judicial adjudication, for
.there has been none; but by an uniform practical execution
of the- statute, according to that construction. Wherein
such a practical construction is inferior, in point of iuthority,
to frjudicial decision, it is difficult to comp'rehend.
The authority for this statement will be found in the case
of William Hillhouse vs. Levi Chester, Day's Reports, Vol.
III, page 166 ; and also in the statute ldws of Connecticut,
Digest of 1821, -page 208.
In the statute regulating descents in New York, there is
also a parallel provision. It is said that there has never
been any controversy as to its construction ; of course there
can be found no judicial decision settling its construction.
The provision is in these wordt, viz.-" And in such case,
every brother and sister of the half blood of the person so
"seised, shall inherit. equally with those of the full Lood;
unless when such inheritance came to the person so seised,
by descent, devise or gift of some one of his or her ancestors; in vhich case, all those who are not of the blood of
such hncestor, shall be excluded from such inheritance."
See the act to regulate descents of the state of New York,
Laws of M~ew -York, Vol. I. p. 46, sec. 4.
It is remarkable how exactly alike in all essential particulars; are all these provisions in both the laws. In one, it is
the estate coming by descent, gift or devise; in the other, it
is the estate coming by descent, gift or devise; in the Rhode
Island law, it is the estate coming from parent or other kindred; iii the'Connecticut provision, it is the estate coming
from parVent, .ancestor or other kindred; ii the New York

JANUARY TERM 1S29,
[Gardner vs.' Collins et aL.]

provision, it is the estate coming from the ancestor. But
what is most remarkable is, that they all agree in designating the person whose blood is to inherit, in'
the same general
way. In all, it is the person from whom the estate came or
descended;. leaving.the word originally,to be understood as
implied; and as what would of course be'understood ,as implied.
As to the meaning of the' word "-blood," as used in the
proviso; whether it mean blood-or full blood, it is not deemed necessary to discuss in this casei for, whether it mean the
one r .the other, the plaintiff is not entitled to inherit upon
,our rule. -Our rule is, that the blood of the person from
whom the estate originally came, is tW inherit ; and the plaintiff is not of that blood.
It is said, that the 'rule (if ours be the rule;) could have
been more technically expressed'; and it is inferred that it
could not be the rule, because this was not done. But does it
not appear that this difficulty operates both -ways The difficulty is,
that the words do not mark our rule with absolute
precision ; but if they did, there could be no controversy
between the parties. The argument is just as good for one
as for the other; and thereforeis good for nothing for either,
It is said that the common law considers a gift or devise
as a purchase; and the purchase as the stock of inheritance:
and da't-we must consider descent as standing on a common
foot with- gift and devise.
It is true that .the -common' law considers the donee or
the devisee as the stock of inheritance. But the question it
not. who it made so by the commbn law, but whom the
statute' makes that stock. It is very clear that the person
whom the common law. makes" that stock, is not the same
the statute does. The common law makes it from the d6nee
or devisee; that is, the -intestate himself, if he be donee
'or devisee :but the statute certainly does.not; it goes back
of the donee or devisee to some other person; now to say
that the donor or devisor is that person, is begging the question. It may go through the donor or devisor, back to the
person frbm whom thd estate originally came; and mist, if
that was the intention. - The fariily inheritance'may as well

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

come down through gifts and devises, as through a course of
descent; and the words gift and devise were coupled with
the word descent, purposely to cover the whole inheritance.
As to the authorities cited by the counsel for the plaintiff,
Mr Robbins observed, that none -ofthem seemed to conflict
with any of the grounds which had been taken for the defendant.
In all the numerous references to Reeves's Law of Descent,
not one militates with these.grounds; nor is it supposed that
the practical construction of theparallel provision of the
Connecticut statute is different from ours.
As to the two cases from Sergeant 4f Rawle's Reports,
and from Harris 4, Johnson, they are cases under the statutes of Pennsylvania and Maryland, which are different from
that of Rhode Island. Theirs extends only to the estate
which comes by descent; not like the one under which the
defendant holds to the estate, which comes by gift or devise,
as well as by descent. And one of those cases only goes to say
that the estate by devise was not embraced by the proviso in'
the Maryland statute, relating to estates by descent; and that,
the estate by devise descended upon other principles.
Mr Justice SToay delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes before us from the circuit court of Rhode
Island, upon a certified division of opinion of the judges of
that court, upon the question whether the plaintiff was entitled to recover upon a statement of facts incorporated into
the record. The action was an ejectment for two-third parts
.of certain land described in the writ; and the title of the
parties being by descent, depends altogether upon the true
construction of the statute of descents of Rhode Island, of
1822. Accordingly as that statute shall be construed, the
land now in controversy blongs to the plaintiff or the defendants.
The material facts are, that the estate (two-thirds of which
are demanded in the writ) was devised by John Collins to
his daughter Mary Collins in fee. Upon her death in 1806,
the same descended to her three children, viz. John C. Gardner, George Gardner, and Mary C. Gardner. The two bro-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Gardner -s, Collins et al.]

thers died intestate and with'out issue; and Mary C. Gardner,
as heir to her brothers,'became seised of the whole estate,
December 1822. The
and died intestate and without issue, indefendants are the uncle and aufit of Mary C. Gardner, the
intestate, of the whole blood; being children of John Collins, the devisor, and brother and sister of her mother, Mary
Collins. The plaintiff is the brother of Mary C. Gardner,
the intestate of the half blood; and he holds a conveyance
of their shares from her other brothers and sisters of the half
blood, they -being children of her father by a iormer marriage.. The plaintiff and his brothers and sigters of the half
blood claim the two-thirds of the estate now in question, as
her heirs of the half blood; and the defendants claim the
same as her heirs of the Whole blood. It is admitted on all
sides, that the one-third 'which, Mary C. Collins took by immediate descent from-her rhother, belongs to the heirs of the
whole blood. But the other two-thirds, being taken by immediate descent from her brothers, it is contended that by
the statute of 1822, it passes to her heirs of the half blood.
If this question had been spttled by any judicial decision
in the states where the ]a, . lies, we should, upon the uni:
fbrm principles adopted by this Court, recognise that decision
as a part of the local law. But it is admitted that no such
decis :- has ever been made. If this had been an ancient
statute, and a uniform course of professional opinion and
practice had long prevailed in the interpretation of it, that
would be.respected as almost of equal authority. But no
such opinion or practice has been known to prevail; and indeed, the statute itself is but of viery recent origin. Even
the statute of 1798; of which, intfespect to this point, that
of 1822 is almost a transcript, is not of a date so remote, as
to enable us to presume that many cases could have arisen
in that state, on which to found a.practical construction,
without some unequivo'cal evidence.
The most that has been urged is, that there has been some
general understanding among the people, that such was the
meaning of the statute;- but even this, though very respectably attested, is encountered: by equally respectable
statements on the other side. We are driven therefore to-

SUPREME COURT.
TGardner vs. Collins et al.]

consider the question as entirely new and- unsettled; and to
be decide4l not upon the mistakes of parties relative to their
rights in one or two un,'ljudicated cases, even if they existed,
but by the true construction of the statute itself.
The statute of 1822 enacts, that "when any person having
title to any real estate of inheritance shall die intestate as
to such estate, it sl~all descend and pass in equal portions to
his or her kindred in the following course, &c." Among
other clauses is the following, "if there be no father, then
to the mother, brothers and sisters of such intestate, and
their descendants, or such of them as there be." In the
present case there was no father-or mother of Mary C. Gardner, the intesfate, living at.the time of her decease; and as
her brothers and sisters, of the half blood are her brothers
and sisters within the-meaning of the statute, they would be
entitled to the estate in question beyond all controversy; if
there were no other disqualifying clause. But in a subsequent clause of the statute in the nature of a proviso, it is
declared, that "when the title to any estate of inheritance,
as to -which the person having such title shall die intestate,
came by descent, gift, or devisefrom the parenfor other kindred of the intestate, and such intestate die without children,
such estate shall go to the kin next to the intestate of the
blood of the person from whom such estate came or descend'ed, if any there be." The most material differences between
the statute of 1798 and that of 1822, so far as regards' this
question is, that the words "if any theie be" areomitt.ed in
the former, which also uses the words u next of kin to," instead of "kin-next to." Both of these circumstances have
been relied on at the bar as indicating a probable change
of intention. It is said that both acts admit of two readings,
viz. " to such of the next of kin of the intestate as are of the
blood, &e." or "to the nearest of.such of the kin of the intestate as are of the blood," &c. The latter reading will give
the estate to a remote relation of the intestate of the blood,
although he be not of the next of kin of the intestate. The
former reading requires that the party should be of the next
of kin, (that being the primary intention), as well as of the
blood ; and therefore, if a-person be not of the next of kin of

JANUARY TERM 1829.

87

[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

the intestate, although he be of the blood, he cannot take;
and the words of the act of 1822, "if any there be," are relied on to fortify the construction.
We think the. legislative intention in .both acts was the
same and' that the transposition of the words' " next of kin"
to "kin next," was accidental, and not introductory of any
new object. The true construction of the statute of 1822 is,
that it gives the estate to the next of kin of the intestate who
are of the blood, excluding all others though of a nearer de-,
gree who are not of the blood, &e.
In this view of the clause, two questions'have been argued
at the bar. !. Whether the words "of the blood" include
the half blood; or exclusively- apply to the whole blood. 2.
Whether the words "came by descent, gift, or devise from
the parent and other kindred of the intestate," are limited to
a proximate and immediate descent, gift, or devise from
such parent, &c. to the' intestate; or include a descent, gift,
or devise which can be deduced mediately from or through
any ancestor, however remote, who was the first purchaser
to the intestate.
The first question has not been seriously pressed in this
Court by the counsel for the defendants, though it constiftuted in the court below a main ground of argument. -We
think that the phrase "of the blood" in the statute includes
the half blood. This is the natural- meaning of the word
"blood" standing alone, and'unexplained by any context.
A half brother or sister is-of the blood of the intestate, for
each of them has some of the blood of a comm6n pareht in.
his or" her veins. - A person is with the most strict propriety
of language affirmed to be of the blood-of-another who has
any,. however small a portion, of the same blood derived
from a common ancestor. In the common law, tle word
"blood" is used in thet same sense. Whenever it is intended to express any qualification, the-word whole or half
blood, is generally used to designate it, or.the qualificationis implied from the context on known principles of law.
Thus, Littleton in his sixth section says, that none shall inherit " as heir to any 'man, unless he be his heir of the
whole blood; .for if a man hath issue two sons by divers

,SUPREME COURT.
,[Gardner vs. Collins et a].]

ventres, and.the eldest purchase lands, &c. &c,the younger
brother shall not have: the land, &c. because the younger
brother is but of the half blood to the elder." The same
distinction is found in. section eighth of the same author;
and Lord Coke in his oommentary.on the text constantly
takes it. SoP obinson, in his Treatise on Inheritances;
45, after laying .down. the rule,. that the perpon who is to
inherit must ie: of the. whole blood to the person from whom
he proximately and immediately inherits;.adds, that he must
--also. be of the blood of the first purchaser,; but that it is sufficient to satisfy.this that he is of the half blood of such
purchaser.. The legislation of Rhode Island leads to the
same resultuas to the meaning of the word " blood." That
colony..was governed, by the English law of.descents from
its first ,settlement until. the. year 1718, a: period of -more
than .half'a centry. By-an act passed in 1718. the real
.estate of the intestate was divided among all his children,

giving the eldest son a double share, &c.; -andin default of
issue, the same was distributable among the next of kin of
the intestate, within. equal degree, &c. This qct was re'pealed in 1128, and the-common- law course of descents was
revived and remaindd in-force. until 1710, when an act was
.passed, providing substantially for the.same distribution as
the -act of 1718. It contained,. however, this remtarkable
rovisq, ".-mat no distribution of ahy 'real estate in consequence of this act, shell extend or be made ii the collate-

ral tine beyond. th? brothers and sisters of such intestate
and their children, and to those only of thewho e blood."
In 1772 the act of 1770 was repealed- in regard: to the
double share to the eldest son, but.in other 'respects it re'mained'in force,urifil the revisidn in 1798, 'when the proviso
that none shoulc inherit., in the collateral line except -the
'wholk blood was dropped ;"':and there'is not either in the act
of 1,798 or 4
12'any cluise'.referring to the blood .of.any
person as a stock of"decent; :except the very clause- upon
whinh the present questi6ns: arise. 'When, -therefore, he
distinction between tie whole and, half blood,, was wel
known. in the colony, not only as a. part of the.'commoii lawbti.-as. a -part of its own legislition, and 'the proviso Is

JANUARY TERM. 1829.

89

[Gafiiner vs. Collifs et aL]

•

.dropped in which the words "whole blood" were.studibusly

used and the words "of the blood" only, are found in any
correspondent proirsion; it affords a strong presumption,
that the whole bl6od were no longer deemed to be exclu-

sively entitled to inherit, but that the half blood should be
let in. If the half- blood were iiot permitted to ;nherit -in
cases of this sort, this bnonfaly might occur; that a son

might inherit from his parent the moiety of afn estate directly, which he could not inherit from his biother of the
half blood,-to wholn it id passed by descent from the same
parenti- if snch brother should die without issue. We see
no reason, then;'to doubt, that the words " of the blod,"
include the 'half as well as thie wholb blood. .The.plaintiff,
then, and those from whom he claims being the -next' of
kin-of the i'testate(a), and of the blood of her two brothers(b), from whom 'she 'immediately derived that part 'of
the estate which is-now in controversy; is entitled to recover,.
unless the statute in th other part of 'the 81ause defeats the
descent.
" This leads us to the second question. The estate originilly came from 'John Collins by devise to his daughter Mary
Collins,, and by descent from her to her three children, and
'mediately as to ihe twu thirds'to the intestate, through her
brothers. The' counsel for the plaintiff contends, that the
elause looks bnlyto tHe proximate and immediate descent; the
cou.nsel for the defendahts, that it looks to the origin of the
title in the first purchaser,*.anra requires that the party claiming as heir, should be of the blood. -of the first purchaser,
through whatever iniermediate'devolutions .by descent, gift
br devise it mayfhave. passed, and however remote .maybe
the firsi ancestor. If the latter be-the true construction of
-the clause it goes far. beyond the comnmon- law, for that'
stopped at -the last purchaser in the ancestral line, (and
persons taking by devise or gift are ddemed purchasers,) and
(a)' See Smith vs. Tracey, 2 Mod. 204; Crook vs. Watts, 2 Vern. Rep, 124;
S. C. Shower. Parl. Cases, 1os.
(b) S.e Cowper vs:Cowper, 2 Pccre Will. 720. 735- Colliigwood vs. Pace,
I Veitt,424; Walkins on Dcscen1b, 227, 228. [153.] note; Iccves on Dcscents, 176.

VOL. 11-INI

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs: Collins et al.J

.ascended no higher than it could trace an uninterrupted
course of descents. The -common law, therefore, would
have considered Mary Collins as ihe' first purchaserfor all
its own purposes of descent. The- words are, " when the
person having
title to any real 'estate, &c. as to %Vhichthe gift
or devise
descent,
by -ame
such title-shall die intestate
from. the parent,.or other kindred of the intestate," &c.
Now what reason is there to supposd that the legislature, in
--this 'claus'e, meant in favour "-of the blood of the person,
frolii whom suck estate came or descended," to extend its
reach beyond that of the common law !. No such intention
is disclosed -on the face of the provision; and every progressive enactment, for the last fifty years in Rhode Island,
is a relaxation, of the'strict canons of descent of the common
-ta:w. The words themselves -certainly do not necessarily
iequire such an interpretation. As to descents, as well as
gifts and devise' from a parent, it, is plain that the act looks
only -to the .immediate descent or title. *-A descent from a
.pdrent to a child cannot be construed "to mean a descent'
thrbogh and not from i. parent. So'a gift or devise from a'
parent niust be construed 'to mearn a gift or devise by the
act df that parent;.and not by that of-some other ancestor
qrore remote, passing-, through the parerit. It has been
urged, in-another- quarter'entitled to great respect, that the
.words may be construed. distributively.; That a distiiction
may be taken 'betW;een 'a descent,- gift 6 r devise,..from a
parent, and a descent, &c. from other kindred; and so, also,
that,the- words-descent, gift and .devise may be' construed
_distributively; so that in cases of descents, the-party who
shall inherit is to be of the blood of the first purchaser, frdm
whomrbyintermediatedescents it was passed to the intestate';
and that, in cases of gifts or devises, the donor or devisor
hose blood is to be inquired for.
shall alone be the -person wIt may be admitted' that the clause is-susceptible of such'a
construction without --any great violation of its terms. But
we.do not think; that such is the natural construction of
the terms,- nor is any'legislative intention disclosed, which
.would justify us.in kdopting 'it. There does, not seem any
sound 'reason, why the clause should be- construed in the
-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Gardner vs.-Collins et'al.1

case.of a parent, differently.from what it-would, be in the
case of any "' other" kindred of the intestate.."' The atter
words must be conltrued in the same manner as if each
class of kindred had been -enumerated in detail; -such as
'; and if
N
uncles, brothers, grand-parents, Cousins, &c.
they had been, the' same rule from the specific enunieration
must have been applied- io them, as is now sought to -be'
applied to the .case of parents.' The general expression
must be deemed to include all the particulars._ Theit, as to'
.the distinction between descents, and gifts and devises.
It is true, that in a, sense an estate 'may be said to -come
by descent, 'rom a'remote ,ancestor to a'person, upon whom
it has devolved through"many intermediate' .descent6 But
this, if not loose language, isnot that sense which-is. 6rdinarily annexed, to the term. -When an estate is said to have
descended 'from A;-to B., the hatural and obvious meaffing,
.of the words is, that it is an immediate descent from' A. to
B. If other words of a statute shotild: seem to -ieqiire-an'othei anid more enlarged meaning, there would be no absolute impropriety in adopting it; but if the true sense -is to
be sought from the very terms per ge, that whith is the usual
sense would seem most proper to be followed. .It is not for
courts of justice to indulge. in. any latitude of. construction,
where the words do not materially justify it; ind there is
no. express 'legislative intention to guide themh. .But we
think, that the connexion -in whidh the words stand, justify
us in adh.ring to the 6rdinary interpretation. : If in cases of
gifts and devises, the blood 'of the proximate donor or devisor is- alone to be regarded, there being., no 'distinction
pointed oul in the words of the act, between. those cases
and that.of descents; the very juxta position of, the words
affords a strong presumption, that the legislature intended
-to apply the same-rule 'as'to all.- If the object was to re.
gard the blood-of the p.arty, from whom the estate .was derived; -what reasoh is there to suppose that the -legislature.
intended iess.regatd to the blood'of a devisor or donorj ,than'
to 'that of an. ancestor.?' The mischief might -be a great in
suffering the estate to pass intp the hand of strangdrs;% hen
there Were next of kin of the blood. in the one case, as in the

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

other. On the other hand, there might be solid reasons for
confining the preference of blood to cases of immediate
'descents, which cotild be easily known -and easily traced.
One of the known inconveniences of tracing back titles and
relationship, is the obscurity which at a small distance of
time gathers ever them. It would often be difficult to ascertain, whether- there were not relations of a very distant
stock, of the blood of a remote ancestor; who might be entitled to the inheritance, to the exclusion of the immediate
next of kin of the intestate. .And even the course of descents of his own title in a country, where estates are universally partible, for two or three generations; might involve the estate of the intestate in inextricable difficulties;
-and disable the next of-kin froi- ascertaining, into what'
fragments it was to be subdivided with any reasonable certainty. It Would be no want of wisdom, therefore, in a
legislature to limit its provisions in favour of the blood, to
cases where the immediatejftitle could be traced with almost
absolute certainty. Certainty of title, in a country where
titles so rapidly. change hands, might furnish a far 'safer
principle of legislation, than any preference for the blood of
persons remotely related to the intestate through some digtant, and, perhaps, unknown ancestor. We think, then,
that in the case of a gift or devise, the statute stops at the
immediate donor or devisor, and ascends no*higher fbr any
blood. What reason is there to suppose, that in the case of
a descent there was a different legislative intention . In
the case of a parent, the parent is,'by the very terms of the
statute, made the sole stock of descent, whether he derived
it by descent, or by gift, or devise, from an ancestor or a
stranger. In the case at bar, the mother of the intestate
took the estate by devise from- her father. She was in by.
purchase-; and in the sense of the common law, as first purchaser, and, of course, -the true stock of descent, holding
the estate ut.feudum antiquum. It has been said that the -object was. to preserve inheritances in the same family. ,To a limited extent this is frue;
that is, as far as the legislature- has -provid6d for sudi
" " ca-s es.
No general declaration is made by the legislatur'on-tbe

JANUARY TERM 1629.
[Gardner vs. Collins et.al.]

subject; and no preamble, which :discloses any leading intention, exists.. What the legislative intention was, cai be
derived only from the words they have used; and we cannot
speculate beyond the reasonable,.import of these words.
The spirit of the act must be extracted from the words of
the act, and not from conjectures ahiunde. The common
law carries back in certain cases, the descent toth- heirsof
the first purchaser. But the common law canons of descents,
are overturned by the statute of descents of Rhode Island.
How then can we resort -to the common law, to make up the
supposed defects in the. language of the statute! . Here,
there is not a casus omissus; but a complete scheme of descents; and the only question is, how much -the proviso
carves out and saves from the operation of the 'general rule.
No 'such words as "the first.purchaser'," are' to be found in
the statute, though. it is sufficiently technical in other respects; and what right, ca' this Coibrt.possess, to exchange
the words in this statute -for the words, "first purchaser,"
*when ihey are not equipollent in meaning or extent? If
the .legislature intended to set up anew the rule of the common law,'as, to descents, &c. from the first purchaser, it
seems scardely credible that it should have omitted the very

phrase, considering that for a century at least it was a Imaterial ingredient in the law of descents of the colony. Then,
again- if the argument now urged at this bar for the de-fendants; is well founded, it goes (as has been already stated)
far beyond', and indeed to the overthrow of the common law
on'the very point of first purchasers. Indeed, at the common law, a man-might sometimes inherit, who was of the
whole blood'of the intestate, who could not haVe inherited
from the first 'pirchaser. As in the..case of a purchase by
a son, Who 'dies without issueidand his uncle., inherits the
same, and dies without issue, the father may inherit the sam.
from the uncle, although he could not inherit from his own
son(a). The-statute of Rhode Isiandlimparts to parents at
right to inherit the real estates -of thei' childreni in cases
where the latter die without issue.
(a,Se Littleton, s. 3. and Co.Lilt. 10. b. Lift. s.*8. Co. Litt.-14.-b.

SUPREME COURT.
[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

The statutes of descents of the different states in the
union, are so different in their provisions, that it is not easy
to apply any general rule of construction to them. The
cases cited at the bar, do however demonstrate, that in those
states where a similar language is lised in their statutes of
descents, thie expression has been uniformly construed to
mean immediate descents, gifts and devises, unless that construction has been overruled by the context. The statute
of Connecticut, of 1784, which has been supposed to bethe
model of that of Rhode Island, as to this proviso, is understood'to have received this. construction(a). Under words
nearly similar, in the Virginia statute of 1792, (the worls
being, "that where an infant shall die without issue, having
title to any real-estate as inheritance derived by gift, dev:se
or descent from the father, &c.") it has been held that an
'immediatedescent from the father, and not an intermediate
descent was intended(b).
Upon the yhole, our opinion is, that both points are in
favour of the plaintiff, We all think that the words- of
the blood" comprehend all persons of the- blood, whether of
the whole or half blood; and that the words, "come by descent, gift or devise, from the parent or other kindred, &c."
mean immiediate descent, gift or devise, and make the immediate ancestor, donor or devisor, the sole stock of descent.
A certificate will accordingly be sent to the circuit.court
of Rhode Island, in favour of the plaintiff.

This- cause came on to be- heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the
district of Rhode Island; and on the points on which the
judges of the said circuit court were divided in, opinion, and
which were certified'to this Court for its opinion; and was
argifed by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered
and adjudged by this Court, that it be certified to the said
(a) See Reevis o.i-Descents,160, &c.
(b) 1 .Mrnf. Rep, 183. 3 Call. Rep. 120.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

95

[Gardner vs. Collins et al.]

circuit court of the. United States for the district of Rhode'
Island, that the plaintiff and those under whom he claims
the estate in controversy, are heirs at law of Mary C. Gardner the intestate, and, as such heirs, are by the statute of descents of Rhode Island of (A. D. 1822),-eighteen hundred
and twenty-two; entitled'to the same estate upon the facts
agreed in the case, and that judgment ought to be given for
the plaintiffin this cause; all which is ordered to be certified
to the said circuit court.

