SUPREME COURT.

96

MIOcAjA

T'

WILMAI,

PLAINTI"

IN EImOR VS. THE BANK OI

THE UNITED 'STATES, DEFENDANT IN EnROR.

Action -against the indorser on a promissory note.
The notary public, after the note became due, called at the house of the indorser
, who resided in the city of Cincinnati, which he found shut up, and the door
locked I and on'inquiry of the nearest resident, he was informed that the indorser and family had left town on a visit; whether for a day, week, or month,
he did not know nor did he inquire. He made use of no furthef diligence to
- ascertain where the indorser had gone, or whether he had left any person in
town to attend to his business. He left a notice at the house ofa person adjoining, with a request to hand it to the indorser when he should return. Held,
that this was sufficient diligence on the part of the holders of the note, to
charge the indorser. [100] .
The-general rule of law applicable to this subject, has long been settled; that to
enable the holder of a bill of exchange or promissory note, to charge the indorser, it is incumbent on "him to prove that timely notice of the dishonour of
the bill, or of the non-payment of the note, was given to the indorser; or if this
could not be done, he must excuse the omission by showing that due diligence had been usedto give such notice. [101]
If the parties-reside in the,same city or town, the indorser must be personally
notified of the dishonour of the bill or note; either verbally, or in writing; or a.
written notice must be left at his dwelling house or place of business. Either
mode is sufficient, but one or other must be observed, unless it is prevented
by the act of the party entitled to the notice. [101]
If a party to a contract, who is entitled to the benefit of a condition, ppoP the
performance of which his responsibility is to arise, dispenst with it, or, by any
- act of his own, prevent the performance; the opposite party is excused from
proving a strict compliance with the conditions. Thus; if the precedent act is
a strict performance of it is preto be performed at a certain time or place, anti
vented by,the absende of the party who has a right to claim it; the law will
not permit him to set up the non-performance of the condition as a bar to the
responsibility which his part of the contract had imposed upon him.: [102]
The holder pf a bill br promissory note, in order. to entitle himself to call upon
the drawer or indorser, must give notice of its dishonour to the party whom he
means to charge. But if, when the notice should be given,.the party entitled
to it should be absent from the state, apd has left no known agent to receive
it; if he abscond, or has no place of residence which reasonable diligence used
by the holder can enable him to discover, the law dispenses with the necessity
of giving regular notice. [102]"
Where the paries reside in the same city or town, the notice should be given at
-the dwelling house, or place of business, and the duty df-jhe holder does not
require him to give the notice at any other placer [102]
The Court refused to hear a re-arguient upon a point decided in the case of Fullerton et al. vs. The Bank of the United States, 1 Peters,612, that the act
of the legislature of Ohio, relative to proceedings ixgaiist parties to promissory
nptes, hadbbcen well adopted a's a rule of piac ice in the courts oE the United
Statrs for the state of Ohio. .[I0]

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Willianis vs. The Bank of the Unitea States.]

THIS was a writ of error to the circuit court of Ohio; in
which'court, the bank of the United States has instituted a
joint action, under the authority of the act of assembly of
the state of Ohio, passed 18th February 1820, entitled "an
act to regulate judicial prpceedings where banks and bankers
are parties, &c.; and by the provisions of which, the plaintiff may make the drawer and indorsersof a note or,bill of
exchange, joint defendants, in the same. action. Thus the
suit was against the defendant and two others; and the declaration contained a common count for money lent against
all the defendants.
The pleas were non-assumpsit; and on the trial of the cause,
two several promissory notes drawn by J. Embree, endorsed
by D. Embree and Williams the defendant, in blank, were
offered in evidence by the bank. On the subject of notice,
.the bank thien gave the -following parol evidence, which was
the only proof offered, to wit: "that the notary public, after
the protest of the note, and the expiration of the usual days
of grace, called at the house of-the. defendant (Williams),
who lived in the city of Cincinnati. He found .it
shut up,
and the door locked ; and on inquiry of the nearest resident,
he was informed, that the defendafit and family had left
town on a visit, whether for a day, or week, or month, he
did not know, nor did he inquire. He made use of no further diligence to ascertain Where said Williams had .gone,
or whether he had left any person in town to attend to his
business. The witness left a notice at the house of a person
adjoining, with a request to hand it 'to the defendant, when
he should return." The counsel for Williams submitted to
the court, whether the above facts were sufficient evidence
of legal notice to charge the indorser, and to en'title the
piaintiff to judgment. The court decided that the evidence
bffered was.-conclusive against the indorser; to which decision a bill of exceptions was ie.iidered and sealed, and judgment was then rendered for the bank, against Williams for
$ 12,202 88.
The cause was- argued by Mr J.C. Wright for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr Sergeant for the defendants.
'VOL. II.-N

SUPREME COURT.,
[Williams vs. The Bank of the United States.]

Mr Wright imaintained,
1. That this court erred in deterriining that the evidence
of notice was sufficient to charge an indorser, and conclusive against him.
2). That the suit below was jointly against several persons,
and the cause 6f action Was for several undertakings, upon
which there could not be ajoint liability.
This Court having decided at the last term in the case of
Fullerton and others vs. The Bank of the United States, 4
Pete.rs's Rep. 604; that the act of the legislature of Ohio,
which authorised this proceeding, was in force in the circuit
court of the United States; Mr Wright declined arguing the
second point, tinless the Court should be desirous of hearing
a re-argument upon the question. Upon the first point, he
contended that the holder of a note is bound to give personal notice of non-payment to the indorser; or to see that
it reaches -his dwelling, or place of businessi if he has one.
10 Johns. Rep. 490. 11 Johns. 231. The contract of an'
indorser is contingent; it is that he will pay the note on the
default of the drawer; and the court cannot change the na.ture of his obligation. Notice must be given and proved,
or facts must be proved which will enable a jury to presume
notice.
Iin this case thefacts.do not establish any thing.equivalent
to notice.* the dhfendantwas a resident in the city of Cin-.
cinnati,,and had' a right to personal notice at his dwelling
house. The notary called at the house, and not finding the
defendant. at home, but finding the house shut, perhaps only
for an hour, he left the notice with a person who was not
called upon to deliver it, and who, it is to be presumed,
* never did deliver it to the plaintiff in error. The notary did
not do what-would have been an equivalent act, put the notice in'the post office. 2.-Johns. 275.
The lawma, require a merchant to keep - his'counting
house open during the hours of business ; but it does not follow, that a person. must keep his lfuse open during all the
hours of day-light, and in his absence a.person to b always
in the house. The testimony za this case falls short of the
reqi'ites of the, law, and authorises a presumption in favour

JANUARY TERM 1829.

q9"

[Williams vs. Tfe Bank of the United States.]

of the claims of the plaintiff in error. While*it is'fair ahd
proper to draw such an inference, it is not.so to infer facts
which should have been proved,, from othei facts which arein evidence. The court should have left the facts to the
jury, and their inference from the proof given by the bank
was error.
Mr Sergeant for the defendants.
There are -four cases depending in this Court'upon tilequestion ofnotice; and the decisions of the circuit court were.
given in them all before the case of the Bank of Columbia
vs. Lawrence, 1 Peters, 578.
This case was decided by the circuit court without the in'tervention of a jury; the facts having been submitted to the
court. It cannot therefore be objected that the facts were
withdrawn from the jury.
The evidende given by the plaintits below was hiffirmative and positive proof of due diligence; .and What is duediligence is aLquestion of law, and was properly decided by
the court. Tindall vs. Brown,1 T. R. 167. Chitty;290,n. 1.
It is Uot necessary that the notice of the d~fault of the
drawer, which the indorser has a right to require, shall be in
writing., Thi obligation is to cal! at'the dwelling hous6 o'f
the indorser,.or at his place of business, and if he has left'
no one there to attend to his 'affairs, it is his loss,'and the
holder of the bill or note has d6ne his duty, and all that the
law requires. Goldsmith vs. Bland, cited in Bailey on Bills,
(4th Lond. ed.) 224, 5. -1 JI/aule -, Selwyn, 545. Chitty on
Bills, (lm. ed.) 284, 5. note a. Id. 276; cases in note 1.288.
The difference, between the requisites for legal notice at'
the place of business and dwelling house is, that if notice is'
given at the former, it must be in the' hours of business; but
the dwelling, house being theplace of pernianent abode, the
notice may be'given at any hour of the day.
In this.case it is'denied that what ought to have been
done was done. The rule of 'the commercial law is,.that
you shall come, as near to what is required as you.can; and
if the party has put it out of your power to do more, you
have done utfficient. Here the indorser having left his house

100

SUPP gxg COURT.
[Williams vs. The.Bank of the United States.1

shut up, and not having left an agent to attend to his business-; shall" not be -permitted to avail himself-of his own neglct, but must. take the consequences pf the same.
r :J~astice WASNGToN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was'an-action of assumpsit, brought in the circuit
cpurt of Ohio b the president,. directors, and company of
the'Bank of the United States, against J..
Embree the maker,
add D. Embree and M. T. Williams, the indorsers of two
several promissory notes. The only count in the declaration
is for money leri$and.advanced by the plaintiffs to the defendauts.
Upofithe plea of the general issue, the case, at the trial,
was, by consent of the parties, submitted to the court; and
the abovwnotes were given .in
evidence by the plaintiffs, in
support of the action. -The court gave judgment against
the defendants, and ordered it to-be certified, in pursuance
of the statdte of Ohio, that it appeared to the satisfaction of
fife court, ihat' J.Embree had signed the notes on which the
suit waQ brought as principal, and D. -Embree and M. T.
Williams as sureties. ,
At the trial of the cause thus submitted.to the court, the
pltaintiffs having p!oved the demand, and the hand writing
of the.iridorsers of the notes. offered th6-following evidence
ot the notice tothe defendant Williams, viz.."!that the notary.public, after the-protest of the notes, and the expiration
of thie usufdl days of-grace, called at the house of the defendant Williams, who. resided -in.the city of Cincinnati, which
ha found shut up, and the .ioor locke , and on inquiry of the
nearest resident, he Was informed that the said Williamg and
family had left town on- a visit, whether for a day, week, or
mQnth, he did not know, nor did hb inquire. He made use
of no further diligence to ascertain where Mr Williams had
gone, or whbtherhe-had,left any person in town to attend to his
husiness. The witness left a notice at the house of a person adjoining,.with a request to hand it to the defendant
when he should return."
The court being of opinion that this evidence was conclusive of legal notice to tharge Williams, his counsel took a

JAN4UARXTEIrM

1829.

101

[Williams vs. The Bank of the United States.]-

bill of exceptions, and-ihe cause is now for judgment before
this Court upon a writ of error.
The -only 4uestion Which this bill of exception presents is,
whether due diligence was used by. the defendants in error,
to give notice to the.,indorser of the non-payment of these
notes by the maker'of them I.
The general rule of'law applicable to the subject has long
been settled.; that, to enable the holder of a bill of exchange,
or promissory note to charge the' indorser, it is incumbent
on him to prove, that timely notice of the dishonour'of the •
bill, or of the non-payment of the note Was givefi to the.indorser, or if 'this could not he done, he must'excuse the
omission by 'showing that due diligence had been uised- to.
give such notice.If the parties reside in the same city or town, .the indorser
must be 'personally noticed of tie dishonor .of the bill or.
note; either verbally or in writing; or a written notice-vaust
be l9ft -at his dwelling house -or plade of business. Either
modb is sufficient, but one or -the other must be observed
unless it is'prevented by the act of the patty entitled to the
notice.
In the case nowvunder cohsideration, the banking-house
of the defendanits in error, and the dwelling house of the
plaintiff were-located in the same city.'" The notary called
at'the plaintiff's house, which he found shut up, and the door
locked. 'Upon inquiryot the nearest resident,,he was informed
that the defendant with his famaily had left town on a visit,
but fbr how long a-period was unknown .to- this persbn; no
further attempt was-made to ascertain wherethe plaintiff'in
-error was' gone, or whether he had left any person in town
to attend to his business. The' question -to be decided is,
whether under these' circumstances the defendants ,afe excused for not having given the notice 'which 'the law r6quires .
In the' case of Qoldsmith and B16ind, Bayle4yon BMitl, !24,
not , it was dedided that it was sufficient to send a verbal
notice to the defendant's counting house, and if no person
be there in the ordinary hours of business to receive it, it is
not necessary to leave or-send- a written. one. The princi-

SUPREME COURT.
[Williamsvs. The Bank of the United States.]

ple of this decision is, that the counting house of the defendant is the place in which the holder was entitled, during
the regular hours of business, to look for the person for
whom the notice was intended, or for some person authorised
,by him to receive it; and that the omission to give it, was
occasioned, not by the want of due diligence in the holder,
but by the fault of the party who claimed a right to receive it.
The principle here stated is niot peculiar to this class of
contracts. If a party to a contract who is entitled to the
benefit of a condition, upon the performance of which his
responsiiility is to arise, dispense with, or by any adt of his
own prevent the performance, the opposite party is excused
from proving a strict compliance with me condition.
Thus, if the precedent act is to be performed' at a certain'
time or place, and a'strict performance of it is prevented by
the abpence of the party who has a right to claim it; the law
will not permit him to set up the non-performance of the
condition as a bar to the responsibility which his part of the
contract had imposed upca him.
The application of this general principle of law to the
subject before us, .may be illustrated by other cases than the
one immediately under cofnsideration. The holder of a bill
or promissory note, in. order to entitle himself to calupon
the drawer or indrser,'niust give notice of its dishonour to
to the party whom he means to charge. But- if, when the
notice should be given, the party entitled to it be -absent
froih the state, and has left no known agent to receive it; if
he abscond, or has no place ot residence which reasonable
diligence used by the holder can enable him to'discover; the
law dispenses with the necessity of giving regular notice.
So where tne parties, as iii this case, residb in the same
city or town, the notice should be given at the dwelling
house or place of business, of the party entitled to claim
it; and the duty of'the holder does not require of him'to give
the notice at any other Place. If the giving of the notice at
either of these places be prevented by the act of the party
entitled to receive it, the performance of the condition is
excused.
In this case, the notary called at the dwelling house of

JANUARY TERM 1829.

10S

[Williams vs. The .Bank of the United States.]

the indorser, at'the regular time, and at a seasonable hour,
for aught that appears, to serve the notice, and found the
house shut up, the doors locked, and the family absent from
town upon a visit of unknown duration to the agent of the
bank, or to his informer. What was he to.do .!He was
not bound to call a second time, nor was he under any obligation to leave- a written notice; even if he could have found
an entrance-into the house.
But it-is'insisted that the defendants in error were bound
under the circumstances of this case, to give notice to the.plaintiff throujgh the channel of-the post office; and the case
of Ogden vs. Cowley, -2Johns. Rep. 274, is relied upon in
support of this position.
In that case, the notary called at the houses of the indors'er, and of his deceased partner, for the purpose of giving them
notice of the non-payment of the note, but found their house
locked up, and on inquiring at the next door, was told that
they were gone out of town. On the same day, the notary
put a letter into the post office in the city of New York, addressed to the-defendant and his partner, informing them of
the non-payment of the note, and that they were looked to
for payment. .It appeared that at thattime the yellow fever
prevailed in the city. The cdurt decided that all proper
steps were taken to.communicate the requisite notice to the
indorser, and that the notice was, of course, sufficient.
It may-be remarked upon this case, that the absence of
the indorsers from their hoilses was probably the consequence
of a temporary 2'emoval frbm the city, on account of the-pre-"
vailing sickness, and that the Case does not inform us whether the place to which they had removed was known to the
notary. We are not prepared to say, that in such a case,
the paties entitled to.notice were bound to be at their dwelling houses; or to have any person there at the time the no-.
tary called to receive notice, and consequently that their
absence, and-theclosing of. their houses ought to have excused the holder from taking other steps to communicate
notice to them. But laying these circumstances out of the
case, the court decided no more than that the steps taken
to give notice, were sufficient in point of law for that pur-

-104

SUPREME COUR..
- [Williams vs. The Bank of the United States.]

pose ;"ahd it is not to be doubted'but that they were so. Theydo not-decide that, iia case freed from the circumstances
before noticed, it'was necessary-that-.notice to-the indoi*ers
sh6uld have been -given thrbugh the post office.
Iii the case of Crosse i's. Smith, 1 JIaule 8- Sedw. 545. the
cashier called at the counting-house of the drawer, for fhe
purpose of giving him notice of the dishonour of the bill. "He
found the outward door open, but the inner- locked. The
cashier knocked, and-made noise enoughto have been heard,
if'anybody had been witlij
After-waiting a few minutes,
and no person appearihgi lie left the house, and took nb fur-.
ther legal step to give the notice. - Itwas intisted, in opposition, to the sufficiency of the notice,. that a: notice in writing, left at the cotnting-house, pr outintotlhepost office was
necessary. *The answer given by the court was, that the law,
did notiequirie either mode to be pursued. "Putting' a lettere in'the post," .says lord Ellenborough, " isonly dne mode
of giving notice; ltut where'both.partiesi are residing in the
same post town; sepding a:-clerk is a more regular and less
exceptionable mode." - The dedision in-this cas,'ls to the
sufficiency- of the notice, -was thg game as thtit -given in the
cast-of.Goldsmith vs.,Bland, betbr6referred to.The case of IreIand vs. Kip, 10 Johns. Rep. 490. and 11
Johns. 231, Was much pressed upon the Court in thde argument of 'the. present cause, by. the -counsel for the plaintiff
inerror. We have examined that-case with gleat attention
and respect, but have nit been able to view it in the same
light"as it seemed to have struck the learned dounsl.. The
place of residence of the defendant, the indorser, was three
and a half miles fr6m the post office, within the limits of the
city, f New York, but without the compact part of'th6 city, and
without the district ofany letter*carrier. The 6ase-,8oes not
state that the indorser had' aniy counting-house, ci- place'of
business'in the-city, twfiich the notice could have been left.
The only notice .given to the .efendan.t was a written one,.
put into the post offide in the.city of New Ygtk,directed to
the dfendant, arid stating that the note "had'notbeen paid.
The place of.the defendant's residifice was known. to' the
clerk of the notary, who put the 'written notice to the defen-

-

JANUARY TERIW 1829.

105

[Williams vs. The-Bank of the United States.]

dant into the post office, The only question decided by.the
pourt was, that under the circumstances of that case, the
holder of the note was bound to give personal notice to the
defendant, or to see that the hotice reached his dwelling
house; and that merely.putting the notice into the post office
was'not-sufficient.
Upon a second trial of the causei it appeared in evidence, that the defenifant had given directions to. the letter
carriers- of the post office, to leave all'letters that came to the
post office for him, at.•h house in Frankfort street, in the city
or,New. York; that the letter-carriers called at the post office three or four times evrery day, and took out and delivered all letters left there - and that the defendant usually called
or sent every day for his' letters to the house in Frankfort"
street.
The learned judge who delivered the opinion of the cQurt
'stated;" that, admitting a service of the notice, at
'the
ouse
in Frankfortstreet would 'have been: good and- equivalent to
a service at 'the' defendant's dwelling or counting-house;
still, the delivery of the notice at the post office, unaccom-'
panied, with 'proof that it wasactually delivered at the house,
was not notice. 'He adds, that;" the invariable' rule wiith us
is, that when the parties reside- in the same city or. place,
notice of the dishonour of bills or notes. must ,be personal,
or s6methiihg tantamount: 'such as leaving 'it. at the dwelling house or place of'business of the party, if'absent." Now
it is apparent, that- the question which arises in the case
under consideration, was not, and could not be decided inthe case just referred to. The, objection to the notice in.
the latter case was' that it ought to have bpen given at the
dwelling house of thpdefendant, and could not be given
'through the post offic'e; unless it 'also appeared that the notice so given rea:ched the dwelling•'house, or the hous'e'in
Frankfort street. No attempt was made to give the notice
in'the'former mode, as was done. in this'case; and the latier
mode, so. far from being considered a 'tantamount to the
former, or as being necessary in order' to excuse the-want
of personal notice, is declared throughout to be insufficient.
without further proof.
:oL. II.-O

SUPREM E COURT.
[Williams vs. The Bank of the United States.]

The opinion of this Court is, that -the defendants in*error
were, under the circumstances of this case, excused .rom
taking any other steps than they did, to give notice to the
plaintiff tfthe non-paymefnt of these notes; and that the 'udgment of the court below ought to be affirmed with costs.
[The counsel for the plaintiff in error stated another point,
which he. admitted- had been settled by..this Court, in the
case of Fullertowet al.vs. the Bank of the United Statesi
IPeters,612; but requested permission to re-argue .the point,
in case the Court should decide the first point against him.
f am directed by the Court to say, that the case referred to
was well considered by the Court; that we are entirely satisfied with the decisioh made in it, and see no cause to call
for ' re-argument of the principle there decided.]
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Ohio, and was argued by counsel ; in considexation'
wheredf, itis ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the
judgment of the said circuit-court in this cause be, and the
same. is fiereby afrmedwith costs.

