SUPREME COURT..

THh PuEsiD NT A m DmECTOiii OF THE B wK OF THE CoXroNWEALTH OF KENTUCkY, PLAMnTI:s IN ER'OI

V8. JOHN WISTEE,

JOHN M. PRC' AND CHARLES J. WISTER, DEFNDANTS.
in an action for monrey had',and received for the re overy of the amount of a deposit made in the bank of the commonwealth of Kentu~ky, acting under an
,ac of inborporation 'pasged by the legislature of that state, the defendant
pleaded to the jurisdiction, on th ground that the state of Kentucky alone was
the proprietor of the stock of the bank, for which reason it was insisted that
the suit was virtuayli against a sovereign state;
The Court are ofopinion that tbe question is no longer open here. The case of
the United States Bankvs. The Planters Bank of Georgia, 9 Wheaton, 904, was
a much stronger case for the plaintiffsln error than the present; for there the state
of Georgia was not onlya proprietor; but a corporator. Here the state is nota
corporator, since by the terms of the act incorporating this bank, "the president
and directors" alone constitute the body corporate, the metphysical'pbrson
liable td suit. Hpnce by the law of the state itself,.it is excludedfrom the character of a party In the sense of this law when speaking of a corporation. [323]
'Itmay be added to the reasons which influenced the Court jn their opinion,' in"
the case of The Biank of the United- States vs. The Planters Bank of Georgia;
that if a state did exercise the p~wers in and 'over a bank or impart to it its
sovdreign attributes, it would be hirdlypossible to distinguish the issue of the
.paper of such a'bank, from a direct issue of bills of credit; whichviolation
of the constitution, no doubt te state here intended to avoid. [324]
The act of incorporating the bank of the commonwealth of Kentucky contains a
provision by which it is enactedthat the bank shall receive money on depo.
sit without being required to give an obligation under seal to repay it. This
en.pctment must be construed with" regard to the practice of banking, and
the general undersjanding of mankind; and must create a liability to the depositor by the simple act of depositing, that is, an assumpsit in law; implied
.from an act inpais. [324]
Upon the depbsit being made in the bank of the commonwealth of Kentucky,
thecashier gave under his hand a certificate that there had been "deposited
to-the credit of the plaintiffis below, $7730.81, which is subject t tkeir order
on presentation of this certificate." The deposit wasmade ip the n tdsof the
bank, nd when the same ivere deposited, and when-demand of pgyment was
made, the notes were passing at one half their-nominal value. When the.cer-'
ificate was presented to the bank, the, cashier offered to pay the-amount in:
the notes of the bank, but they refused to receive payment in any" thing
but gold 'or silver. The langilage of the ceztificate is expressive, of a general niot a specific deposit, and the- act of incorporation is express, that the
bank phall pa and redeem their bills in gold or -silver.. Thelttansaction then
was equivalent to receiving and depositing the gold or.silver; if the bank did
not so understand it they might have'refused to receive it. and the plaintiff
would certainly have'recovered the gold and silver; to ffe amount upon the
face of the bills. [325]

JA NUARY TE RM 1829.

3i'9

[Bank df Kentucky vs. Wisterand others.]
The bank baring offered to pay the amoent of the certificate in their bills, they
put their dovn construction on the same, andthey cannot afterwards say that the
"plalntigbelow shohld have accompanied the certificate with a check. [326]
The bills of the bank'were payable to an individual or bearer, and in the action
tipoathe bills there was no averment of the citizenship of the person to whom
tbe.bills are payable, and they might therefore have been payable, in the first
instance, to 'Aparty not competent tb, sue in the courts of the United. States.
This Court has-uniformly held that a note payalli to bearer is payable to ahy
body; and is not affected by the disabilities of the norhinalpayee. [326]

ERROR to the circuit court of the district of Kentucky.
On the 31st October 1824, the agent of the defendants in
error, John .T.Drake, deposited in the biank of the commonwealth of,Kentucky, in the notes of that bank, the sum of
$7730.81, and receivedforn the cashier the following memorandum in writing, usuaily denominated a certificate of
deposit.
"Franikford,31st October 1824.-John T. Drake this day
deposited to the credit of John Wis'ter, John M. Price and
Charles J. Wister, seven thousand seven hundred and thirty
dollars and eighty-one cents, which is subject tW their order
upon presentation of this certificate. Signed, C. G. Waggo-.
.ndr, cashier.- 7730.81.
On'the 6th of November 1824, Mr Drake presented the
certificate to the' bank and -demanded payment 6t the s'um
mentioned in it, in gold or silver, which ivas refused .by-the
notes
cashier, who at .the same time offered the. amount'in
:9n the bank, which were rejected- by- Mr Drake. At the
time the deposit was made the. notes of the bank- were of
the value of.and eorent, in the country at half tii6r nominal
amountr.
The payme6 t of the amount of the deposit.in.gold or sil-

ver having 'been'ltus 'refused, Wisteri Price 'and Wister
brought their -action iMth6 circuit court.of the Uhited $tate.
for the district of Kentiucky. .-The -declaration-'containec.-two"counts,'the first fc r morley had-and received, the second
A'spec.ial count upo the certificate-of deposit.
-At November term 1826, the-defendants alpeared by t-:
f6rney, and afterwards filed a plea to the jurisdiction of-the'
court under the iorporate seal of the bank. -Tieplea states
" that the court. ought not to haVe pr take cogfaizance. of this

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank ofKentucky -vs.Wister and others.]

action, because the defendant is a body-corporate and politic, .created and established by an act of assembly of the
commonwealth of Kentucky and con stituted by the name
and style of ' The President.and Directors of the Bank of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky,' and that the whole capital
stock of the said corporation is exclusively and solely'the
property of the commonwealth of Kentucky, and 'that the
state of Kentucky in her political sovereign capacity as a
state;is the sole, exclusive, and only member of the said corporation." To this plea the plaintiffs below demurred, and
the. circuit court, having sustained the same, the defendants
were ordered to answer over.
Upon the trial of the cause,'the plaintiffs proved the facts
as stated; and the defendants moved the court to instruct
the jury that the plaintiffs had not riade out a good cause
of action, and that, the plaintiffs were not entitled to the
nominalamount of the deposit; but tQ the value of the notes
at the time of the demand.
The court overruled these motions, and instructed the
jury that the plaintiffs were entitled to. the full sum as expressed in the certificate, with interest thereon, from the.
date of the demand, in lawful money of the United States.
The defend.ants excepted to the opinion of the court, upon
all'the matters submitted to them, and the case came before
this Court upon the* bill of exceptibns. The facts of the
cqse.were not controverted.
For the plaintiffs in error, Mr Nicholas maintained,
1. That the circuit court had no jurisdiction over the
cause.
2. The-declaration was insufficient.
3. The court erred in the instructions given to the jury.
He argued, that upon the decisions of this Court the jurisdiction could not exist in the case. The courts of the United
States take jdrisdiction ; 1st, According to the subject matter; 2d, The character of the parties; 3d, In cases arising
under teaties, &c.
In this case the jurisdiction cannot be assumed, -as those
principles upon which the courts of- the United States

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of Kentucky vs. Wister and others.]

would have jurisdiction from the character of the parti.es;
forbid the .same. Thi§ Court will look behind the act of
incorporatidn to ascertain who. are the corporators; and if
they find.they are-not such parties as can sue or-be sued in
the circuit court, they*will refuse to acknowledge that the
court' couid exercise jurisdiction. Cited,'The Bank of th
United States vs. The Planters Bank of Georgia, 9 Wheaton,
004.
SIii .this case the state. of Kentucky is the only-stockhldet
of the bank; and this appearing, the state is.
the party, and
cannot be sued. .It is. a sole c'6rpdration, using the money
of the state, and by'its obligations binding the state. The
interests of the state are alone involved in the suit', and the
judgment of the Court will operate upon .the"state fdirectly.
-2. The declaration is insufficient, because, as the real
-party defendantis the state of.Kentucky, this action should
have been so brought, and can only be so sustained.
This Court has decided that a corporation can bind itself
by a provision, without se:al. In.other states of the union,
the same.principle'has "een acknowledged; but it js other*wise in.
Kentucky. In the -supreme court-of that-state, it has.
"been adjudged,, that unless this obligatioh. or promise of a
corporati6n is.
upder seal it is' not binding. *1 "JMarshall's
"KentuickyReporta, 1. This hais now become -a part of the
municipal law of the state,; aid it willbe regarded in this
Court in cases where the decision applies. The certificate
'of deposit .giv6n by-the bank was not, therefore, legal evidence.'of the promise.
S. In this Court it has been held that bank notes are not
money; and this action, which ii for-money had and received,'
* cannot be sustained, as. the notes of the bank only were received."
It u ay also be urged, that as the notes are payable to .
T. Pendletqn,'or bearer, (here should have been an averment that -hewas a..citizen of Kenthcky. The action cdtn-'
'not be supported unless the citizenship was stated ; this Cou t
not having jurisdiction, unless J. T.'Pendleton was a citizen"
of Kentucky, and averred so to be in the pleadings.'
VoL.

I.-2 Q,

822

SUPREME COURT.
[Bppk of Kentucky vs. Wister aid 'ethers.]

Me Caswell, for the defendants in error.
The plea of the president, directors, and company of the
bank of the commonwea.th of Kentucky expressly avers an
act of incprpo.r-ation, constituting them a corporation by that
name. That there are no stockholders but the state, the
stock, belonging to the slate 6f Kehtucky.-only.
. Thus ii appears that the real corpo'rators. are the president
and directors, citizens of Kentucky; and this Court has decide4 that it'has jurisdictio- in such a case.
Thai-the stock of the bank'belongs to the state:ofKentucqky,'will not prevent this Court from spstaining the, suii;
The-plaintiffs in error are'a corporation with all the ordinary
powers and incidents of such a body.- Among others to lend
money to. the commonwealth of Kentucky. Can :it be said
tht such a body .is not suable,'and that it is not the corp 9 ration, but the state of.Kentucky who is the plaintiff in error;
and that her rights as a sovereign state were violated by. the
suitin the circuit court?
The plainiiffs in error have a legal entity, independent of
the state. They existunder tho law, and they pay and receive money, and by themselves make contracts Which the
must per.form. Unless subject to suits upon such 'contracts,
there is rno -remedy for those "who ,have claims, as no suit
can be, bro.ught against the state.
The amount-of the plaintiffs"c'l-im nust be.that,mentioned
in.the certificate. Had it beenthe intention of the'-parties
to limit the same to what was the current value of the notes
when this deposit was inade, this should hav6 been declared.
This Co"rt can.know no other amount but that mentioned
in-the 'certificate,.or any other money thai theiawful money
thereference
United States
of Iri
to the claim of the counsel of the plaintiff's
in'error, to app!y the decision of the court of Kefitucky. to
the-contractof the bank, in opposition to the law of this Court
holding corporations liable under obligations not under
.se;al; it was' afgued that this Court will not permit the decisions of a state'court to cpntravene the general law; whatever
respect it may be disposed to pay to the decisions of such
courts Pupon the statutes or local laws of tle place.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

323

[Bank of Kentucky vs. Wister and others.]

Mr- ustice J oHnrsoN.delivered "the 'opinion of'the'Court.
The defendants here 'were plaintiffs in the court below,in an actioni for money had and received, instituted to recover the amount of a dposit made. in the'bank bf the.com monwealih of Kentucky.
The defendants pleaded to the juri'dictio.n.on-the ground.
that the: state of Kentucky was sole proprietor of the stock.
of the bank, for which reason it vas insisted that the. suit
was virtually against *a sovereign state. 'To this ple the
plaintiffs, demurred, and the circuit court of Kentucky having dcided in favour of its jurisdiction', that decision is madf'the first'ground of error in the-present suit.
But this Court is of opinion that the question is no longer
open he.re. The case ofthe United States Bank vs. the-P.1anters Bank of.Georgia, 9 Wheaton, 904, was a.much stronger
case for the defendants thair the present;.for there, the state
of Georgia was not only a proprietor-but a carporator. Here
the state is'not a corporator, since by the'terms of the.act
.incorporating this bank, Kentucky acts of 1820, page 55,
sec. 2, "the president and directors" alone -constitute the.
body corporate, the metaphysical, person liable to suit.
Hence, by the laws of the state itself, it is excluded from
the character of a party in the sense of the law when speaking of a body corp.ormte.
"On the subject of an interest in the siock or' a bank, the
language of this Court, in'the case cited, is this. - "It'is, we.
think, a'sound principle, that when a governnient becomes a
'partner in any trading company, it divests itself, so far 'as
concerns the transactions'of that company, of its soveye.gn
character, and takes that of a. private eitizen.' Instead of
communicating to the company its privileges and its prero.gatives, it descends to' k level with those with whom it associates- itself, and takes the - cfiaract6r which belongs to its
asociates, and -to the business which is to be transacted.
Thus, many states of the union-which have. an interest in
baiks, are not suable even in their own courts, yet they
never exempt the corporation from being 'sued. The state
of Georgia,.by. giving to 'the bank the' capacity to sue'and
be sued; voluntarily strips itqelf of its sovereign character so

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Kentucky vs. Wisterand others.]

far as respects the transactions of i*he bank, and waives all
privileges of that character. As a member of a corporation,
.agovernment never exercises its spvereignty. It acts merely
as a corporator, and exercises no other -power in the management of the affairs of the. corporation, than are expressly.
given 'by the incorporating act."
To which it.may be added, that if a state did exercise any.
other power in.or over a bank, 6r impart to it its sovereign
attributes, it would be hardly possible to distinguish the
issue of the paper'of such banks from a direct issue of bills
of credit; which violation of the constitution, no doubt the
state here intended to avoid.
The next question in the cause is on the sufficiency of the
declaration; and on this point'it is insisted, that in Kentucky
a corporation can only assume under seal, whereas the assumpsit here laid, is general and without seal. On this
'subject the counsel adhmitted that every other court in the
United States had decided otherwise, but that it had been
so ruled in'the courts of Kentucky, and was there held as an
established'law.
.It cannot be denied that the case of the Frankfort Bank
vs. Anderson, 3 i1farshall'sRep. 1, fully sustains him in his
position; but this Court decla'es it unnecessary at this time
to enter into the inquiry how far its decisions and those of
other states upon a question of a general; not' a local case or
character, are to be 'controlled by those of any particular
state, since they are of opinion that the act by which the
Bank of the Common'vealth of Kentucky is incorporated;
contains a provision which is conclusive upon this question.
We mean the 8th section, by which it is enacted, that the
bank shall receive money on deposit.without requiring them
to give an obligation under seal'to repay it.. This enactment must be construed with regard to the pr'actice of banking, and the general understanding of mankind; and must
create' a liability to the' depositor by the simple act of depositing; ihat is an assumpsit in:law, implied from an act.in

pais.
The. two remaining questions arose upon a bill of exceptions, the rgaterial racU.on which were these.

JANUARY, TERM 1829.
[Bank of Kentucky vs. Wister and otbers.]

The deposit was prioved by an instrument of writing, in
these words: " .J. T. Drake this- day deposited to the credit
of J. Wister, J. M. Price and C. J. Wister, the plaintiffs,$7730 81 cents, whicli is subjejct to their order on presezitation of the certificate. Signed, 0. G. Waggoner, cashier.
It was admitted that the deposit was made in bills of the
commonwealth 'bank, that bills of that bank were .then, and
at the time of demand, passing- current at half their nominal
value; and that on presentation of the certificate, the cashier'
offered bills of the bank to that amount, but the -agent of
the defendants refused-to receive aynient in any thing but
gold or silver.
In behalf Qf the bank it was moved that the court instruct
the jury that the plaintiffs below had not made out a good
cause of action, and were not entitled to the nominal amount
deposited, but only to the-value of the notes. The court
overruled the motion, and instructed the jury that-the plaintiffs below wereentitled to receiv6 the full sum as expressed
in the certificate, with interest from the date of the demand,
in lawful money of the United States. In-this -instruction
it is now insisted that the.court below erred.
1. Because nothing but a 'receipt of money can prove the
basis of a recovery for money had and received.
2. Because , if entitled to recover at all, the plaintiffs-below could recover no more than the value of. the•'thing deposited. "
On both these points we are of opinion that the.form of
the certificate, and the act of incorooratibn furnish a conelusive answer.
The language of the certificate is-expressive of a general,"
not a special deposit; and the-act of incorporation, section 17;
is express, that the bills. of the bank "shall 'be payable and
redeemable in. gold or silver."
The transaction theft was equivalent to 'receiving and deposiiing the gold or.siver; if the bank did not so understand
it, nothing would have been easier than, to refuse to take
the money as a formal deposit; and the holder of their bills
would then have been put to. his action upon the bills them-

SUPREME COURT,
[Bank of.Kentucky vs. Wis.ter and Qthersj.

selves, in which casq le wbuld certainly'have received the
gold or -silver to the amount upon the face of the bills.
*There aie two other poinis which the.cause has-been supposed to present, and which, th6 Court notices to avoid the
imputation of letting -them escape their attention.
The first is that the refusal of the bank to pay on the pre-'
sentati6n of -the cashier's certificate, may be imputed to the
failure to -accompany it with a*check from the principals.
But-qn this subject the majority of the Court are qf opinion
that the bank put its own construction on the sufficiency.of
the demand and.tbe meaning of their cashier's certificat'e
when they tendered, upon its 6resentation, all that they admitted to be due upon it.
The qther point hasrelation to the'form of thd bills, which
ar6.made payable to individuals or bearer, concerning which
individuals there is n6 averment of citizenship and which
therefore mdy-have been.payable, in the first' instance, to
parties',not:compl.tent to- sue in the courts of 'the United
States.
But this also is a question which has been considered and
disposed of in our previous decisions. This Court has uniformly held that a note payable t6 bearev is payable to any,
body, and not affected by the disabilities of the nominal
payee. The jtidgmentis hfirmed with costs.
This cause came on. to be heard on a transcript of the
.eeord frori thei circuit court of .the United States for -the
district of Kentucky; and was drgued by counsel; on consideration. ivhereof,, it is considered, ordbred and adjudged
by this Court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in
this'eause -be and is hereby affirmed. withf Costs.

