.JANUARY TERM i829.

THE Bxm dr CoLVMA,, PLAINTUFS INERROR
ErY, DEFENDANT TN ZRROR.

vs.

GEoRGE SW.EE-

The act of the.legislature of Maryland. of 1793, incorporating the bhnk of Colum-.
bin, one of the 'sections -of which gives to the bank a summary proceeding
agaihst-debtors to the bank, did not intend to interfere with any-legal defence
agiinst the-claim. of the bank the party might have. It does not prescribe the
natura of thWit defence, or deprive him of'any which might have been used, had
the action been commenced indthe usual way.

THIS was a writ of error to the circuitcourt for the county
of Washington: The same case was before this Court at
January term 1828, on: a motion for a mandamus, 1 Peters..
567.
"Upoft issue, being joined in'.the circuit court 6n the plea
of the. statute -oflimitations, that court decided,' that the defendant was entitled to avail himself of the statute against
the-claims of the plaintiffs, proceeding under the provisions
of their chaiter, which gives them gummary process against
their debtors.
The base. was submitted to this Court on a written argumentby Mr Jones and-Mr Key. The plaintiffs below prosecuted this writ of errori.and sought to reverse the judgment of the circuit ourt.
Mr.ChiefJustice MA~sH.Lx.delivered the opinion of the
Court.-.
in 1793, the state of Maryland passed an act incorporating
the bank-of Colfimbia, Which-contains the following section:
'1-And, whereas-it is-absolutely necessary that debts due to
the said bank should be punctually paid, to enable the dired."
tors to calculate with certainty and precision on meeting the
-demands that may be made upon themi Be ifenacted, that
whenever any person or persons are indebted to the said
bank for 'moneys borrowed, by them, or for bonds, bills or
notes given or indorsed by them, with -an express consent

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Columbia vs. Syteeney.]

in writing that they may be made negotiable at the said
bank, and'shall refuse-or neglect to make payment, at. the
time the same becomes due, the president shall- cause a demand in writing on the -person.of -the said delin4uent or delinquents, having bonsented as- aforesaid, or if -not to" be
found, have the same left at his fast place of abode; and if,
the money so due shallnot be paid within ten days after
such demand'made, or notice left at his.last place of abode
'as aforesaid, it shall and may be.l awful for, the president, at
his -election,t-o write, to the clerk of the general court, or'of
'the county in which the said delinquent or "delinquents"may
reside, or did at the time he or they contracted the debt reside, and send to the said clerk the boild, billi r note, due,
with proof. of the demand made ''as aforesaid, and "ordeithe
said clerk to issue- capias ad satisfaciendum, fieri facia 'or
attachment by way of execution,- on which'the debtand costs
may be levied' by selling the propertyof- the' defendant for
the'surm or sums of money mentiohed in the said bond, bill'
or note;- and the clerk :of"th6 general court, and the' clerks
of the several coanty courts; are hereby-respectively required
to issue such execution pr .eeeutions, which'lshall be made
returnable to, ihe court whose, clerk shall issue the .same
which shall first sit after the issuing thereof, and shall b6 as,
valid, and as'effectual in 'lai, toall'intent and jisrposq8,.as
if the. same had issued'onjudgment "regularlyobtai~ed in the:
ordinary course of proceeding in the said court; and such
execution or'executions'.shall not be liable to be stayed-oor
delayed:by any supersedeas, writ of error, appeal, or injunction from th' chancellor.; piovided'always, thdt'before any'
execution shall issue as aforesaid,,.the president of the bank
shall make an oath, ('or affirmation If-he shall be of such religious -society as 'allowed -by-this state tou iiake affirniation).
'ascertaining whether the whole'or whatp.art of the'debt due to
-the bank on tihe saiid'b6nd, bill or note, is (due; which oath
or affirmation shall be filed In the office of the'cTdrk of the"
Court from which 'the execution shall issue;' and if the-defendant shall dispute the whole'or any pari of the said debt,
on the'return of the execution, the court- before' whom it.is
returned'shall and may order"an issue to be joined, and triaf

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of Columbia vs. Sweeney.]

to be had in the same court at which the return is made;
and -sha1* make sudh-other proceedings that justice '.may-be
done in the speediest manrer."
In putsuance'of these pr.ovisions. of the act,-a capia ad
satisfaciendum was issued. by ihe -bank, again.t .,he defefidanti on a promissory note,-sign~d by him,"and'-indorsed 'to
ihe bauk. The-defendant appeared- in court, and 'claimhed
the right allowed by tlie act to dispute the.debt; .upon whiqh
the court ordered-an issue'to be made up between the parties.
-The plaintiff offered to file a deelgratioh; tendering an
issue on a wager, to whicih the defendant objected,. and the
'assumpsit
court sustained the objection. A declaration "in
was .then filed, t6,which-the defendant pleaded .the statute.
.
of limitations.
On the trial, the defendant, moved ,the -cotrt to instruct
the jury, that if they sliould be satisfied by th eviderkce,
that three ye'rs had elapsed, betvfeei.the expiratiod of. 'hc
time limited for the payment of the said fnote, and the 'issd'
ing of the execution by the clerk in this cause, upon the let-'
ter and paper sent -by the president" of the bank, and giver
•ia-evidence; they ought-to finid a verdict for the defendant;
oxi the issue joined on the plea of the statute of limitations.
The 'court gave ihe* instruction -required, aijid thejury
found 6Lverdict forthe defendant-.. The counsel for the plaintiff 'excepted to -the opinion, and .has brought-the cause into
this Court by writ of error.
The. execution being' the first process under this extraor--.

dinary act, its emanatfon- must be equivalent, so far as respects the bar' created .b the act of limitations, to, suing out
originalprocets.In a.suitcommenced ii the'usual way. There
'therefore, n6 error.in that part -of the instruction which
is,
.relates to the- period to which time.was 'to be, calculated;
'whether the defendant could avail
and.the only inquiry is,
himself of the act of limitations.
,-The great object of the incorporating act appearsto have
been, -ogive the bank the most expeditious 'emedy possible,
for the eollection of the money due to- it.' -The affidavit of
the president 'upplies the place. of a judgment, and those
which- are' allowed for. the' purproceedings
II.-4judgment,
K
VOL. after

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of Columbia vs. Sweeney.]

poses of justice,'but may be used for mere delay, are taken
away. The execution "shall not be liable to be styed or
delayed by any supersedeas, writ of error, appeal, or injunction from the chancellor." But the 'law did not intend, by
this summary processi .to deprive. the9 debtQr of all defende.
Although all delay. was cut off, he was permitted, on the re.turn of the execution, to -dispute the wh6le,' or 'any part of
the debt. .But. while the law allows him--to dispute- the
debt,:it still guards. against delay. An issue' is to be made
up immediately, and tried at the same term. While ih law
-thus carefully guards against procrastiiation, it does not interf*e with the defence which the party is'at liberty to set
up.' It does not lire4cribe the nature of that defenice, or deprive him. of any which .might have been 'used, had the action been commenced in the ordinary way. Had the bank
of Columbia proceeded in the common.course of law, the de-:
-fendant could have pleaded the act oflimitations, in bar of
the action. If we are correct'in saying, that the object of
thi- section of, the incorf oiatihg act-which has been recited,
wag expedition, not the ademption f legal, defences; we
think this a mode of disputing the debt, of' which 'he'might
still avail himself.,.
'Theie is no error in the judgment of the circuit court, and
it is affirmed with costs.
This cause camne.on to'be heard-on a transcript'of'the,re
cord from the circuit-court of the UnitedStates for the dis'trict of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and-was Argued by counsel; on consideration whereof,
it is considered, ordered and adjudged- by this Court, thiat.
the judgment of the said Oircuit court in -this cause be, and
the same is-hereby. affirmed With costs.

