SUPREME COURT.

CHAnLEs A. BEATTY AND JOHN

T.

RITCmE, APELLANTS Vs.

DAIEL KURTZ AND' OTHERS, TRUSTEES .Op THE GEwRMN LuTHERAN CRlUlCH OF GEORGETOWN, APPELLEES.

A lot of ground bad, in the original plan of an addition to Georgetown, been
marked "for. the Lutheran church," and by the German Lthierans" of the
place, had been used as'a place of.burial from the dedicatidn and who had
erected a school house on it, but no church; exercising acts of protection and
ownership over it at some periods, by.committees appointed by the Germafi
Lutheians; the original owner acquiescing in the same.. This may be considered as a dedication of the lot to public and pious uses : and, although the
German Lutherans were not incorporated, r)or were there any persons-who as
trustees couldhold "the property, the appropriation was also valid under the
bill of rights ofkaryland. The bill of rights, to this extent Bt least, recognizes
the doctrines 9fthe statute of Eliiabetht for charitable uses; under which it is
well kown, that such useswould be upheld, althbough thebe was no specific
grantee or.trustee. This might at all times have .baen enforced as a chalitable
and pious use,-through the intervention of the government, as parqnsatrim,
by, its attorndy general or otherlaw officer. It was originally consecrated for
a religious purpose. .It has become a depository of the dead; and it cannot
now be resumed by the heirs of the donor- [584]
If th6 cbmplainants in the circuit court were proved to- be the regularly appoint:
eil committee cf a.voluntary society of Lutherans ii' actual possession of the
premises, and acting by their direction to prevent a disturbance of that possession,; under the circumstances of thiscasi,.theredoes not appear to be a serious
objection to their tight to maintain a.suit for a perpetual injunction against the
heirs of the donor, who sought to regain the property, and to disturb tlieir
pdssession. [584]
The 6nly difficulty which presents itself upon the question, -whether-the com-"
plainants in the circuit court have shovn, in-themselves, sufficient authority to
main'tati their suit, is, that it is not evidenced hy any formal vote or writing.
If it were necessary to decide the cageon tis pnint,'under 'all the dircurnf;t~nces, it might he fairly,presumed. 'But this is not necessary; bicause this is
one of those cases in which certain persons belonging to a voluntary society,
and having a-common interest, may sue in behalf of themselves and others,
having'the like interests, as part of the same society, for purposedscom'mon to all, and beneficial'to all. -[585]

APPEAL from the circuit court-of -the county of Washington.
"The appellees filed their bill in the circuit court -against
Charles A. Beatty and John T. Ritchie, w hicb states, in substdnoe, thai the late' colonel Charles Beatty and George'
Frazier Hawkins, in the year 1769, laid outon lands belong-

JANUARY TERM f829.
[Beatty. and Ritr'iie s. Kuitz and otheis..

ing-to 4hem, and adjoining the towd of Georgetowni, acertain t.Wn known by the name of " Beatty and Hawkins's ad--,
-dition to Georgetown ;" the lots.whereof were laid down and
dibtinguished on a plot, and disposed of by lottery. Thai
Beatty iff laying out-the said addition, distinguish.ed and. set
apart a certain lot or'portion of ground in the said addition,
for the sole u~e and benefit of-the German-Lutheran church;
declaring the same to be their absolute- right and prbperty,
to b6 held.. by them -for' religious purposes, and the use of
said- congregation, and- caused the .sane to be so entered.
and designated in.the plot-of' said addition, is now appedrs
by the plot and papers" on record in the i lerk's office for
Washington, t6 which they beg. leave to refer': -which ploi
and papers were recorded under authbrity of.the aft of Mafyland 1796,,ch. 54; which lot is de.scribed in the said~plot of
said addition, as the. German Lutheran church lot,- and alsa
in the general plot of the town of Georgetowh and its addi'tions, deposited in the office of the clerk of the.,corporation
of Georgeto wn: That soon after the lots in the'said addition were laid- off and disposed of as 'aforesaid, the said lot
was taken possession of by-the said. Germ'an Lutherans, and
was enclosed, and a church erected thereon ; and hath been
kept- and held by them ever- since, during a period, as theybelieve, of- upwards of fifty years, and hath been used by.
them as a burying-ground for the members of the said
church,. with -the avowed intention of building .thereorA a'n-"
other church or place of worship, the building, first erected
beifig decayed, whenever their funds would enable them to"
do so. That during all.this period, neither their possession
nor title hath ever b-een questioned,"and the lot has been exempted from.taxation at their request, by thie corp6ration of
Georgetown, as being church property.. That Charles Beatty
died-about sixteen years ago, and without having Made any
.conveyance of the said lot, and that Charles A. Beatty is-his,
heii at law.. They. therefore pray that he may" be made defendant, and be compelled to convey.the title-to ithe complainants, in trust for the German'-Lutheranchurch.
They further state that the defendant John, T.Ritcdie.
without any pretence of title, disputes the title of complain-

SUPREME COURT.
[Beatty andRitchie.vs:

urtz and others.]

,ants and their right -of "possession, and. has -.undertaken to.
enter on part of -the lot, andro remove tomb stones &c.
-and they fear that he means to dispossess them: wherefore,
they pray subpcona, &-.. and that they may be quieted in
their possession of said lot, and that the defendant, Ritchie,.
may be enjoined from disturbing their possession;. and for
general relief.
The answer of the defendants in the court below, admits.
that, Charles Beatty deceased, did designate a lot in his-addition to Georgetown, by inscribing on-the plot thereof these
words, "for the-Lutheran church ;",that-they always understood and believed that he meant by that inscription to
manifest an intention to 'appropriate that lot to the, use of
the Lutherans, lprovided they would build on -it, within a
reasonable time, a house of public worship, which wodld
conduce to diffuse piety, to enhance the.value of his property, and to adorn his addition to' Georgetown. But they
-.deny that -this inscription was evermeant, or cculd be'interpreted to be a contract witl.the Lutheran church, 'to cbnvey
to thai body- tile property in ;question.,
the writing
itself could'not operate as a conveyahcej and there, was no
cotisideration to sustain it.as a c'optract. They. deny that
Charles Beatty ever declared the lot in question to be the
abs6lute right and property of the Lutherans;' or 'didir any
manner, by means thereof, hold .oit inducements to them'or
the public to:purchase tickets in the pretended lottery mentioned in the bill, or to purchase and improve lots in that
part of the town. " They 'aver-that nochurch hd 'ever been
built on it,. and that itsoccUpation by graves and a school
house, was a use of itby no means beneficial to-defendants,
or him-under whom- they claimed.
The answei. denies the 'possession. averred in the bill--rnd
also that there ever was an organized congregation of Ger-=-an Lutherans in Georgetown,
It-avers also, that the lot in question-has remained-unenclosed for at lbast three fourths of the, time since it- became
t part of Georgetown; and that :the enclosures which occasionally surrounded it,'were not erected by the complainants - nor .those whom theypretend to represent. The re-That

JANUARY TERM 1829.

569

[Beatty. and Ritchie vs. kurtz and othefs.1-

spondents admit that the lot.was used as aburying ground;
but aver that 'it was thus used by Beatty's-permission, and
not exclusively by the Lutherans, but the public generally.
But they fiirther say, that if the Lutherans had enjoyed the
possession alleged in-the complainants'bill, they right.and.
should have'enforced the rights thereby acquired-at law, and
ought not to have come into .equity for a remedy. Finally,
confessiuig that they had resumed possession of the property,
they deny the authority of the complainants to.act in behalf
of 'the pretended' German Lutheran churcli; and pray.the
same benefit of these defences as if 'they had been urged by
plea to the bill.
The plaintiffs amended their bill, by stating, the German
Lutheran church, mentioned in their bill, was composed- 6f
the members of the Geiman 'Lutheran church in Georgetown, 'duly organized as such ; I. that the lot wag set apart
-

by C. eatty," from and.out of that 'part of the said land.
'composing said addition," of which he, the said Beatty,'was
spised. "1The said Beatty, by the said designation, declaration, and setting apart, holding/out to the public, and.to the
German Lutherans particularly, inducements as well to purchase tickets in a lottery, by which the- said lots were disposed of, as to purchase and improve that part of the town
in other ways. And thereby meaning to transfer' to the said
German Lutherans, as soon is they should organize themselves into a congregation or 6hurch, all his right to said lot
in fee, to be used for the religious purpose of such congregation or church, and thereby declaring that intention. That
they organized themselves ipto a congregation or church,
and -erecteda church, or house of.worship. on the said lot."
That the complainants,' and the congregation for whom they
act,- have -called upon C. A. Beatty, and required a conveyanci according to the promise and declared intent of the
said Charles Beatty, deceased: that upon organizing the
church'or congrega-tiorn aforesaid; certain officers, called a
committee, were appointed to take charge of the concerns
of -the church; which appointments were, from time to-time,
made and renewed, and that complainants were appointed in
1824, and have continued to hold such appointment ever since.
VOL. I. -S W

SUPREME COURT.
[Beitty and Ritchie vs. Kurtz and others.7

To those amendments, the defendants answered; and de•nied all the allegations in the amende~d-l.
It *ab in evidence, that ,soon. after this lot was thus
set apart for. the Lutherans; it was, with Colonel .Beatty's
permission, taken possession' 6f'by certain persons, Ifthat
sbet in Georgetown,. who had, a log house" erected on it,
which Was called, a church, and used-as such frequently, and
also as a.school houge.by the German Lutheranp. That in
the yeai 179, 'a German minister* came from Philadelphia
and was .employed by them, and preached in this house for
three m6nths, being employed and paid by the German Lutherans of Georgetown; 'tnd about the year 1799, the con-geation of German'Lfitherhns, 'of which -Travers, the 'witness.in ihis cause, was one, employed a German minister,wh .bfficiated in'said house for about nine months. Though
-divine-service was'freqdiently administered in thiat building,
there w.as,at no. other periods than -those just mentioied, a
statioried. preacher who ministered to a congregation in reguJar Attendance there, except a Mr Brooke, who was. an Episcopal clergyman, ind who, Dr Balch testifies,"had possession
of that building as 5. ihurch in 1779: .In the same,"'or the
following year, a steeple was erected on the said house, in
which a bell was-hung, at 'the expense and by the direction.
of the. German Lutherans of.Georgetown.' This building
some- years afterwardi went to. decay, anti"no church has
been since -rebuilt on the lot; though-efforts have beei since
made -f6r that purpose€ and -as- late as r823 a considerable
subscription was raised, but'not suficient for theobject.
During the whole period from 1769.to-the bringing of this
suit, the-lQt in question ,a's
generallyuthdet eriglosures, pu
up at the expenie of the Lutherans of'Georgetpwn, and -un'der the care- and custody'of a cdmmittee appointed by them.
It fiag been c ontiniial'y so enclosed for more than twenty years,
before the entry and claim set up by the defendants in this
-suit.- The said lot has been also used by the 'Germans as a.
burying ground from the -year 1769-till a short time before
tJie bringing this :siit,.and has been called and knowri as.
the Dutch burying ground; -and one of the.wit"esses; Styles,
acted as sexton, under the orders of the'corn aittee of the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Beatty and Ritchie vs. Kurtz and others.]

congregation. It does not appear that-the German Luther"ans in Georgetown, eyer were incorporated by law .as a re-.
ligious society.
It-also appeared from the evidence, that from thfe year
1769, till within a month or two. before the briging this
suit, no claim to the possession or property in the-lot n6w
in dispute, was ever set up by Col. Charles Beatty, or.f
eithei-of the -defendants; but on the contray, Col 'Charles
Beattyup to the time of his death, aways declared it to be
the property:of the German Lutheians of G6orgetown; his
administrator,, Abner Ritchie, who, it is. stated, sold .all his.
lots in said addition left by him at his death, never cilaimed
or offered to sell the lot in 4iestion, as' part of his property;
that his sonand. heir the defendant, Charles. A.. Beatty,'has
repeated the same declrations to. a Witness, (Moiunti). a few
years before ihii suit-he expressed.j! his' surprise, that the
Germans had been so indifferent about getting their'itle to
this property,:" .he was always ready aid willing .to give
them a deed f6r it."
A witness, Mr Rhaffer, testified that in 18239thedefendant Beatty, in his presence, declared, ": tfiat the lot aforesaid
was the, property of the- ,Lutherans, and that he was very
anxious to make them-a deed. He also donfirmed the evi-;
dence of the other- witnessps,
It also appeared' from the evidence, that since, the year
-1769, the said lot hasnever been assessed,for taxes to 'Col.
Beatty or his .heirs, nor have any taxes ever been paid by
them. That it has always been recognized by the corporation of Georgetown, since thir charter in 1789, as. the church
property of the Lutherans; and as such, has been .exempted
from taxation, with other church property. in 'the town.
It was in.eviderice, that the Lutherans of Georgetown always had a church. committee to act for them, and to take
charge -and.custody of the lot, in queation; and the appellees
constituted that-committee from 1816, till the bringing th'is
suit, and to the present time. .In virtue of thqt appointment,
wiikhen Ritchie entered on the premises, and thfew down the
fence and tombstones, they filed this- bill for a coirveyance

SUPREME COURT.
[Beatty and Ritchiebes. Kurft and otners.,' -

in'fee of the- lot, to complainants as trustees for said church;
td be qui.eted in the possession thereof; and for arinjunction
to restrain the appellants from disturbing their possession, or
trespassing on said'lot.
The- circuit court decreed a 'perpetual injunction against
the defendants, the appellants; who,'by-their appeal, brought
the case befre this Court.
The cause was arguedfor.the appellants, by Mr C. C. Lee;
ahd for the appellees,.by Messrs' Key and Dunlop.

-For the appellants it w,. Ilaimed that the decree of the
court below-should be reversed, and the bill dismissed.
1. Because neitherC. Beatty nor his- son, eier ilid any act
which divested'ei'ther of them of the right of propertvwand
possdssion-inthe lot ifr question.
2. because neither of them ever entered into any contract, (and leastocf all such an one as.a court'of equity will
enforce), with the appellees, or ihose whom they pretend to
represent, to convey to them or -their pretended cestiti que
Irmsts the lot in question.
3.: Because the appellees, or those whom they 'pretend to
represent, have never had such an adverse. possessioi of the
lot as gave them a -title to it.
4. Because, if they had,"it was such a title as they,.might
and should have enforced at law and-not in equity.
5. 'Because the appellees.havie failed to show any authority
in 'themselves to prosecuie tihis'suit.
,Mr Lee contended that the only act done by C. Beattyor his
heirs, which can be pretended to, have'divested them of
the title to the lot in' question,-js th& inscription-by C. Beatty
on the plot of the lot, of the, wordws" for the Lutheran church."
No possibleinterpretation of these can mako them act as a conand the bill itself1 Which attempts io interpret thein
into 4 contract, and. which seeks to 'have that contract specifically performed, necessarily admiis the title of the'lot to
be still. remaining in the.ap'pellants.
"Dismissing then this point, as -scarcely made in the case,
it will.'be most perspicuously iredted by considering the bill
in refdrence to iis differelpt prayers, which are for specific

-'veyance;

JANUARY TERM :18'29.
[Beatty 4 Ritchie vs. Kjrtz and others.]

possessioin. 'This lead's
performance, and to be quieted in.
directly to the poifit that the bill -shows no contract of which
equity will'decree'perfoimance. The words telied on as c.redting a contract are the aforesaid inscription," f6r the Lutbe-ranchurch." But of the three requisites of acontract, two are
wanting here, viz. parties and a price; and inteipret-them as
you will, no mutuality-can be pretended. This of islf is sufficient to prevent the assistance of.a eourrtof equity. -Howel
'v9. George, I Mad.: 12. Moreover, the eontract alleged con cerns lands, -and must therefore,.by the stattite 'of frauds,-be
in writing, "But there ik no'consideration pientioned in the
"contfact'as.set out-; and this has been. tbo often decided, to
be an essenial part of a contract, and thferefoie to be.embraced in the Written instrument, to need illustration, from
cited authorities. - True, the plot'of Beatty & HawkiiIs'sad-:
dition to Georgktown, wvith the-said inscription thereon, was
recorded. as alleged in the bill,:by the aqt: of 1796, -h.. 54;.
but the C6urt will p.erceive * by inspecting thai act, that -it
does not affect this -discussion.
The appellees will-doubtless insist on:tp part performance
of the pretended contract, to relieve themselves'from operation bf the-statute of frauds.. This is a matter of fact, which
the dourtmust'decide on froi the evidence. They will at
least remember, that if the app6llees rely on their pretended
erection of a pretended. church, as an execution on'their part
of the pretended contract,, they admit that they were bound
by that contract to erect a-church; whil.e.it willbe impossible to regard a log school house, -afterwards,converted into a
dwelling house, and now detroyed, whoever may have'called.
it a churdhiianl have. preached in it, as-such a building to be
.applied to such a purp6se-as is .cal.ed for by a contract to
build - a church. And it .may also be observed upon
this part-of the case, that this prayer of thu bill'was
refused by the court below,-and no.appeal was taken -from.
that decision. •
As-to the second-prayer of the-bill,'he argued thai it.
might
be viewed 'under two aspects. 1'.As- regarding the cornplainants.below, disposseised by the dgfendants, and seeking
to be xepossessed .and .qqietedd;. and -. -As regarding the'.

574

SUPREME COURr.
tBeatty & ]Ritcbie v4'Kurtz a~nd qthers.]

complainants in possession, and seeking protection agains.t,
the defendants as intrudbrs.or trespassers. 'Either view of
the ease is.
equally fatal "to th- bill; and for-the sattie reason,
b6cause the proper remedy-is at law.. For, regarded under
the. first aspect; -the bill. is -what -is reproachfully teiried an
ejectwent bill,,andcleaxrly'condemned., Cooper's Plead. 12-5;
Locker vs. Rol-le, 3 es. Jun. 4, and Ryves'vs. Ryves, 3'(Ves.
Jun.-.:43. An.re-garded under'the ' second aspect, no precedent can be found- to-authorise, it.. The only species of
bills which-can be mistaken, as affording such a preced~nt,
are bills of peace-, and bills founded on the soZkt. But the
least relectionwill show, that this is not a case fora.bill of
peace; *hirh-is -Amade use of 'where'a person has a right
which -may:be-controverted by. various persons at different
times,- and -by differeni actions," and - where there have
been repeated--att empts iotIifigate -the' same question by
ej~ew nt,..and .-repeatec -and. satisfatory trials." 1 Mad.
Ch. 166: In shoxti ijls of peace .lie to prevent multiplicity
of actions; and this .is
n6t pretended to be brought for that
purpose;
Bills founded on the soletare used "where- a.man is en"titled to a rent out of-lands, as chief rents or'quit rents,-and
"froth length of time the- remedy. at. lawv is lost, or become
very ,diffiult ;" relief- has, in silch case, been given, in
-equity on the sold ground of-long and undisputed payment
of.ih rent.. I .Mad. Ch. 29. - But the appellees in this
case- or -those wh6m they pretend to -represent, never had
such an-adverse, possession of the lot .-in que'stion. as. gave
-them a title to. it; and ifthey had, theargument supposes
them-in possession,, and they can maintaiif all their rights
at law withodt the aid of the court of equity.
He also contended -that whatever rights any society
of German Lutheians might have to the lot, the appallees had shown no aithority in them -to.prosecute their
.claim to those rights; and that the 'bill' they-had filed, -regarded in its true light, i a -bill--to estiblish-a. legal title
•an4 to obtaini. peip.et'ual injunction. Thats8uch a bill.'is
-

JANUARY TERM 182

575

fBetty '& Ritchie.vs..Kurtz and otliersi]

ifiadmisile, is clearly istablished b W'ilbyf vs.. The Duke
of Ruiland, BroWn's P. 4..41.
Mr Lee ,I:i reply to-the argument of the counsel for theappel lees, said, the true'sources of the success of 'the appellees in the-court below,, were in'tbe clamour about the pbllution of the.remains- of the dead,-in tKii declamation .ab6ut
violating the sanctuary of the tomb-".which .tridniphed before
the inferior -tribunal; and which now. places the 'appellants,
literally, in -the situation which was but 'figuratively ascribed
to Setius-.
.Jamte prqmetnox,fabuq1que mines,
Et domus exills Plutonila:-Hor.

SAnO.after- all, the only thing done was by one of the app.el-.
lants, who threw _dowri a part of the enclosure of the l&t in
-dispute -'but it 'was.that part which separated. it from his own
gardei; Yet-that is complained of a's such .g nuisance,ei as
*that the chancellor will prevent it by-injunction ! -But while
this is'cdmplained of as-a nuisance, Whyis not-that.considered
to which the appellant.s'are'subjected , It may.well"be that one
will consent .to:have a grave yard in his vicinity, if it be hallowedby i chuich. The spir6-whikh points'us-to the .skies:
may reconcile-usto- the mund which 'tells of what is; moub
deringin the 'earth. ,But-wa Qliject to the bane vithoit the
antidotel--the-objects which'aw'aken the mhortal shudderings,
with'ut that which inspires the immortal hopes.
.He contended that ,the. old acts of Maryland referred to,
wereentirely inapiplicabl&t6 thjs.-'ause. That the case itd
. does not'refert6operpett'al injunctions;
".from 7 Joh4. Ch..
ind that-in the one'cited from 'the 4th .vol. of-the samne book,
there was a dispute about boundaries; to ascertain and establish which, has longformed ;, head.of, hanbery jurisdiction;
and. that'-thb' eitraordinary- powers of one. of the parties entitled the other to the extraordinary'aid of -the chancellor.
As 'to the possession contended for, MrLee insisted, that
no persons were poihted out who held that 'possession ; tlhat
the' teimporary cominittees werd -never incoiporated, a n d.'
there could have been no holding by.-succession; and that'
the appellees, *so far from showing any authority.vested in
them to institute these proceedings, had even failed to how

SUPREME COtT.
[Beatty"& Ritchie v&.Kurtz and others.]

aby congregation or' religious society which could, confer
such an authority.
For the appellees it wag contended:
The decree. below,..for a.perpetual injunctioin,,'was right,
if the appellees had title, either under the grant or by Pos-ession, and -we contend that they had title under both..
1. Under the grant, three o.jections are made to it: that
it.is withoutconsideration; that there is.no certain grantee;
thaf it is within the statute of frauds.As to'consideration, we admit the general rule t6 be, that
equity will not lend its aid to enforcg a-mere voluntary
agreement. But here there is a consideration. The diffusion
6fpiety and promotion of religion are sufficient to support it.
Besides there was a money consideration. The designation
of this lot as a church 16t, caused the tickets to sell, and enabled the grantor to dispose of his property. It is-in proof,
that the Germans were by this means induced to buy.
cc That there -is no certain grantee." It is agreed that upon
generalprinciples, this grant codld not be executed in favoui
of a voluntary, unincorporated society, and that the statute
of 43.-Eliz. ch. 4, having been decided not to be in force in
Maryland, n.o aid can be derived from that statute.
But this grant has had .alegislativerecognition;act of assembly of Maryland, 1796, -ch. 54, sections.13 and 4. That

act is as strong a recognition of the grant by.the Maryland
legislature, as.ifthey had passed a speial la v with, the assent of Beatty, declaring -the lot in question to be the property of" the German Lutherans of Georgeto'wn."
If such .a special law had passed, would not the courts be
bound to give effedt-to the intent of the legislature and donor. Wotild they not apply.to ii the principles of construction adopted by England, in relation to the 43 .liz. and the
charities provided for by.-that statute. See 4. Wlteaton,'appendix: p. 11...
itisalso contended, that "this grant.isprotected and made
valid by the 34th.articleof &e bill of rights of .MarylandThe grant is within the exception contained in the 34th article, and that exception ought to have a.liberal:construction.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

57.7

[Beatty &:Ritchie vs. Kurtz'and others.]

Within the narrow. limits -prescribed :by the exceptibn, the
principles of construction,' adopted inEngland .as. to the 43
Eliz., oughtto be applied. Within.these limits it was, andl
had been, the. policy of the people and legislature of Maryland,:tofavour the church& Acts *ofassembly of"Miryland,
1704, ch.. 38; 1722, ch. 4.
The last objection urged against thb grant is,'that it concerns lands, is piot in-writing, and is avoided by the statute
of frauds. We ainswer, that the conitract ig in writing. * The
inscription on the plot is-.by Beatty himself, anid describes
the lot with-certainty. But if.it was not in writing, the'contract has been performed, &e gift executedi and possession
delivered and retained, for'more than fifty years.
If the grant'was void for uncertainty ,of the donee, then
it, is -contended; that the appellees, and those under whom
they claim, haye a good title ".by possession. The lot ha&
lieeh in their adversary possession,, by actual enclosures, for
more than twenty y,ari.
• .a.ving 'title 'eifher un.der the grant or by .possession, the
only remaining 'question is-ishere a right to the.interferince
of a court of equity, to restrain Ritchie, 'te trespasser,by
injunction.
It'is'said the oxilyoremedy is at law, for damages; that a'
court of e'quity has'no jurisdiction to enjoin trespass. It is
known that in ordinary cases-of private trespass, the prbper
remedy,is at law,.for damages; and this has been found'suffi.cent for the.protection of property. But' in cases of tres-"
pass, of a peculiar'nature,where the mischief is irremediable,
which damages could not -compensate; where the injury
reaches t6 the very substance and valise of the estate, and
goes to the destruction of it in the characterin which it is
'enjoyed; the English court of chancery, and the courts of
chancery of this country, are in the habit of granting injunctions.
.To this point,, and in support of the distinction .here
taken, cited the. case of .Ferom6 .vs. Ross, 7 Johnts. 'Cha.
Rep. 332; also 6.Vesey, 147. 7Vesey, 307., I Brown,
:588. 10 Vesey, 290. 17 Vesey,. 128. 18 'Vesey, 184.
If any case could justify the strong and menacing hand of
VOL. ll.-3 X

578

SUPREME COURT.
[Baeatty and.Ritciie vs:Kiqrtz'and otfheis.]

an injunction, this is it. What damages can redress the
feelings of the injured, or punish, as they ought, the aggressor. What tresp'ass could.more effectually destroy the property in the characterin which it iq enjoyed.
. If the'appellees had no other title but possessi6n, the"case
of Varick-vs, The Mayor, &c. of New York, 4 Johnson's
Ch: Rep- -53- fully sustains the decree of the court be'low. In that'case Varick, who applied for and got the injunction, set up no other title but possession for twenty-five
years.
Chazncellor Keit says, "atter such 'a length of time, it is
right. and just tihat the plaintiff should be protected in his
property, &c. The defendant :must first. acquire possession
of-the- round in dispute, not by forcible entry, but by regula, process of law. 'The principle upon which the'injunction is to be upheld is; that. afteir a: claim of right, accbmpanied with actual and constant possession -for twenfy -five
.ycars and.upwards, the corporation of New York cannot be
<permitted, without..de process of law, to enter upon posses'sion, pull down buildings," &c.
In the case at bar, our adversary possession is longenough
to take. away the appellants' right of entry.
*Mr Justice STRY delivered the 'opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal in a suit in equity from a. decree-of the
.cirduit court of'-the distridt of 'Columbia, sitting*for the
county of Washifigton.
*Georgetown was, erected into a town -by. an act of the legislature of*.Maryland, passed in 1.751, ch. 25. By.subse-"
quent acts .aditions were made. to the territorial limits of
the town; and the town was created a corporation, with the
u§ual-mninicipal officers,'by aii act of the Maryland legislature,,passed in 1780, ch; 23. The charter of incorporation
has been, subsequently amended by congress, by variouj'acts
passed 'upon the subject-since the cessiofi.
In the year 1769, Charles Beatty and George F. Hawkins
'laid outa town, known, by the-name of Beatty and Hawkins's
addition'to Georgptown; and wliich' is now included within
its corporate liaits. The 16tsof this addition were disposed

JANUARY TERM-. 1.829.

579

[Beatty and Ritclie vs. Kurtz and othera.]

of by way of lottery, under the direction of commissioners
appo nied to lay out the- same,-Ad' conduetthd drawing of
the lottery. The "bboks 'of the lottery and the plati of :the
lots, and a.honnected survey thereof, 'were aftervards, by.bact
passed in 1796, bh. 54, oidered to be recorded in the clerk's
office for the territory"of Columbia, and copies thereof to be
good.evidence in all courts of law and equity in the state.
Upon'the original plan so recorded, one lot-was, marked out
.and iiscrib d witla these words, "for the Lutheran church ;"
and- thii. lot Was in :fac.t part'of the land of which Charles
Beatty was seised.
The bill was brought up by the original plaintiffs, "alleging
themseives -to be trtistees and and-'agents, for the German
Lutheran.church composed of the.members of .theGerman
Lutheran dhul'rcb.of Georgetown, duly organized as such, i.n
behalf of themne.ves, and the'member of the -saidchurch. It
charges the laying-o.ut of the lot in question for the sole use
.and benefit of the Lutheran church, to be held by them for
religioui pur oses and the use of the congregation, as abovev
mentioned. -.That-s'6n afterwards the -lot was taken poses.ion .of'by the said'Germa.n Luthera*ns in Georgetown'; .who6rganized themselves into- a. church -or congregation, and
erected'a'-church oi house of worship thereon;. and the lot.
was enclose.d 4y them. ancf a .church erected thereon;.and
hath been Wpt' and"held by them during a period.of fifty.
y6drs; and.hath been, usedas a burying ground for the -members of the-church, with the avowed intention of building
thereon afnother church or place.of 'worship, the.first- building .''rected'.thereon being de.cayed' whenever their funds
•would 'enabe them so 'to .do.- That during all this period
-tfheir possession has. never been questioned, and the lot has
been exemuted from taxation as propety set apart for a religigus purpose. -It-further charges that upon .the.organiza-.
tion -of th6 church' or congregation, certain officers, called'a'
.committee and trustees, were appointed'to take tare."of the
said-church, which- appointments have been from time to
time rehewed;'that in1824 the plaintiffs were re-appointed as
such,'having been-so appointed at formei'timesg";It further
charges that Charles Beitty died about sixteenyears ago,

580

SUPR E COURT.
[Beatty and Ritchie ais, urtz and others.]

without having made any. conveya6ce of the said lot- and
that Charles A. Beatty, the. d'efendant, is 'his heir, and
has the title by descent; and ii'ays'that he may be compelled to c6nvey" it to th'em.- *It ftirther charges that Ritchie,
the otherdefendanft, has unwarrafitably disputed their title;
"arid has entered upon the lot and -removed some of the tomb
stones erected -thereon, and'means to disiossess the plaintiffs -and to remove -the'tomb stones and- graves. The bill
therefore prays-tlat they may b.. quieted in their possession,
and that.a 'vrit of injunctioi may issue, ind for further relief. :
The defendants .put in a joint answer.' They adinitted
that the lot w'as so'marked in-the plot as:the bill staes,, and
,that it was Charfes Beattys :intention "to appropriate the
same tothe'use 6f the Lutheran congregation;,provided they
would build :thereon, within a, reasonable time, a house of
public worship. They deny that the German :Lutherans
.were ever brganized., as stated in the bill ; or thatany such
church has'ben built; or that there has been any such possessiqn or enclosure as the bill asserts; or that Charles Beatty
ever'made. any conveyance of the property. to transfer his
title., They admit that the lot has been ued a a grave
yard; but not exclirsively appropriated -to.the use ,of the Lutheran-congregation. They admit that a building was erect"ed'thereon, but that it was -used as- a school house. They
admit that the defendant, Beatty, is heir at law, and as such,
thathe. 1aims the -lot in question, and has au.thorized.the
defendant, Ritchie,,to take possession thereof. They deny
all .the equity in -the bill,-as well as the auithority of the
plaintiffs to sue ;.declaring them to 'be mete volunteersi 'apd
.demanding proof of their authority, &c.
The geperm i replication was filed, and the cause came on
for a heairing upon"the bill, answer, exhibits aine depositions;
and the court decreed a perpetual injunction agaiist.the
defendants, with costs. The: appeal is -brought from.that

decree.
Upon examining the - evidence, it appears to us that the
material allegations of ihe b-ll are,-atisfactorily established.
It.is'proved th.at, shortly after the appropriation, and more

-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

581

[_Batty and- Ritchie vs. Kurtz and others.]

than fifty years ago, the. Lutherans of Georgetown. proceeded
to erert a log house on the lot, which was Psed as a church

for public worship, by that denomiriation -ofChristians.; and
was also. occasionally, and at different tifnes since, used as a
school 4iouse under their direction. That .at a much. later
period, a steeple and bell'were added to the building; 'that
the land was used as a .church yard; that a sexton Appointed
by Lutherans .had-the-direction of it; that more than half of
thelot is covered Wilh graves; and others as well as. Lutherans have been buried there; that• the Lutherans have caused.
the lot to be enclosed .from timreto time, as the.fences fell
into decay, and procured subscriptions for that -purpose;
that.the possession of the Lutherans, in ihe manner in which.
it Was exercised over the lot,'by erecting a house,-by public
worship, by 6nclosirug the-ground, and by.burials, was never
questioned by Charles Boatty in his life time, or in.any.manner disturbed untila short period- before the 6ommencement
of the present suit. That Charles Beatty in his life tim&
constantly avowed that the lot was eppropriated for the Lutherans, and that they were entitled to it.

The Lutherans have constituted 'but a: .smal-number.in
the town.of Georgetown; they have ndt been able, therefore,
to maintain public, worship consta~itly in the housise erected, during the .whole period3. and sometimes .it has been inteimittedfor a considerable length of -time. But efi6rts.
have been. constantly made, as far as practicable, to. keep
together a-congregation, to.use the means of divine worsh.ipi
Prd to suppPrt publie preaching., The house, however, in
.consequence'of, iievjtable decay, elodown some time agci;
the.exact period of which, however, does not oppear;.but it
seems to have been more than forty years.after its first oree-.
tion. Efforts have since- been made to r build itbuit hitlierto*
tley have not been successful.
. The Lutherans in Georgetown, who. have possessed the
-16t.in -question, are notand never have been incorporated as
a.religifous, society. The congregation has consisted ofo.a.
v.oluntary society, acting in.its general.arrangement by committees and trustees, ch osen-from time to time-by the Luthe-

rans %belongingt6.it. There do not appear to'have been

SUPhEME, COW.RT.
[Beatty and Ritchie vs. Kurtz'and others.].

"any formal reoords kept of their proceedings; and .there have
been, periods of coisiderable, int'ei.misdion in.*their -appoi~tment and action. .There is no other pxoof that the plaintiffs
arei committee of the congregation, .than what'ariges -from
the S.tateinent of witniesses, that they wbre 's
9 chog'h by. a
-meeting of Lutherans, and that their-appointment has always
been-.acquiesced -inby the, Lutherans, 'and.'they'havo -assunled 't act. for them without afiy~queftion.of. their. autlio:
rity;'that they are thejnselves-Lutherans, living in.Georgetown, and forming a part' of the voluntary society, is- not
disputed.'
There is decisive evidence also that the defendhnt Beatfy
'has- sinde-the decease of-his. father, repeatedly admitted the
claim of he Lutherans to the 'lot, and his.willihgness that it.
should 'remain for them, as it'.had' been briginally: appr6&priated. No assertion of.dwnership was ever*made by hin-t,
until the tcts were cominitted,':which'form the gravamen of
the. prfisent bill.'.

Such are'the material facts; .and .the pincipal quiestions
arising uporr this posture 'of the 'cdse, are; fir at, whetherthe
'tit'e to the lot'in question vever passed from Charles-Beatty,
so far at'least.as to -amount.to a perpgtal appropriation of it
to the use of the Lutheran chuich, or to, the pious uses to
which it has been in. fact appropriated. 'And secondly, if so,
whether it is competent foi -the plaintiffs- to,.maintainrthe
present bill.-

As to the first quegtion, it is not' disputed that Charles
Beatty did originally ifitend that this lot should be agpro-.
priated-for the use of 'a Lutheran church in the-f towo laid'
off jay .him. .But as .thetewas not -atIha't time any -hurch,
either corporate or unificorporated, of. that denomination in
that town; there.was-no grantee capableof taking the same,
"'imbdiately bygrant. 'Nor can any-presumption . of a grant
arise froni-the 'subsequent. lapse of-timq, since there never
has been any such incorporated Lutheran church there
capable.of-taking. the ddnation. If, thetofore,it w~ere necssary that tliere'should be'agr np9 legally capable of.taking,
in ordei to support the donation- in this.case 1.it would be'
utterly void at laW, and 'the land might'be ,resumed at-plea-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

583

[Beatty and Ritchie vs. kurtz and othets.]

-

sure. To be-sure, if an uninc.oiporated, society of Lutherans. had, upon.the "faith of such donation, built a chtirch
thereon, with the -consent of. Beatty, that might furhish a
strong ground why a courtoof equity shculd compel.him to
convey the same to trustees in-perpetuity for.their use;,or at
least to execute a declaration of trust, that he and his heirs.
should hold the same" for their 'use. For such conduct would
amount.to a contractwith the persohs'so bilding the churchi
that he would: perfect -the donation' in their-favour; ..aid a
iefusal to' dc'it would be a fraud 'upon tnemi which a court'
of equity ought.to redress. And if the town of Geoigetown
hid been capable:of holding such'a lot for such uses, there
would be Po difficulty in considering" the' town: is.the.
grantee under such circumstances'sincer the- uses would be
of .a public and -pious nature, bentficial to the inliabitax4s
generally.. But it does.-not •appevtr .that'Georgetown, in,
1769, 'or indeed until its incorporation in' 1789,'was a corporation, so as to .ecapable of holding lands as an :incident to its, corporate -powers;
'If the appropriation, therefore;: is .to-bd-dmen,,d valid at
all, it-must be upon other principles than those-whichordinarily apply bet~wVen grantor and granitee. And :we.think
it may be' supporfed'. as. a, dedication 'of the, lot to pfiblie
and pidus 'ses.. The 'bill of' rights 6f-Maryland 'gives vali'dity'.to "1any.sale, gift, lease or devise -of~any quantity of
laid .not 'exceeding' two acres,, for a church,I'meeting or
other house of worship,' and f6r .a burying greund which
shall be"improved, enjoyed or used only for such purpose."
To this extent, at least, it redognizes the doctrines of the
statute of Elizabeth 'for l haritable' uso, under which it is.
well known, that -such leases -would . be upheld, although
there wem
r o specific grantee or trustee. In the cage of
Th6 Towin of Pawlet vs. Clarke,- 9 Crazach, 292. 331, this
Court considered' cases of an.-appropriation or dedication of
property' to particular or religious Uses, ,as an. exception 'to
the general rule requiring a particular, grantee; and :like
the dedication of a highway to .the ptiblic(a). There
-

(a) See also Brown vs. Porter, 10 .llass. Rep. 93; Weston vs. Hunt. 2 Miass.

SUPREME COURT
(Beatty and Ritehie vs. Xurtz and others.]

is. no pretencer- to say, that- te present -apprQpkiation
.was eVer. attempted to- be -withdrawn by Charles Bleatty
during his life time, and .he did not die until about sixteen
,ypats ago..,, On the c6ntrary, the original plan. and appro.pri.atioti were *constantly kept in view by all the legislativ&
.acts passed on the subject of this adaition. -The,plan was
vejuited, to be recorded as anievide.nceof .title,.'and its-in-.
corporation into the limits .of Georgetown had reference to
it. We think then it might at-all times have b.een enfQrced
as a charitable and pious use, through the .iptervention of
the g6vernment as parens patrima, by its attorney general or
other law.oflicer, It was originally consecrated for a rEligious purpose; it has become -a depdsitory, of tb teAd; "and
it cannot now be resumed by the heirs of Charles Beatty.
The next questidn; i* as.. to the compethnny of.the pleintiffs to maintain the present' suit'. If .they were proved to
bethe regularly. appointed committee -of a :voluntary society
bf Lutherans, in.actuel, possession of the.premisqs, ano acting. by thir'directi6n to prevent wadisturbandce of-that.pO.s
session,. ulider. circumstances. like "thosestated. in the bill,
we do. not- pexeeive..any seritis' objection. to their right to
maintain -the suit; tt iz a -ease where no action, at law,
*eyen if-orxe could. be brought: by- the vohmrtary -society,
(whi~h it would -bp 8ifculttto. .rihitain,) would -afford an
adequate ..
and.complete. remedy. T.h;s *isnot the case.of a
mere private trespass; ,but a iublic nuisance, goingto ihe
irreparable injury.of the Georgetown, congregation f Lu-.
therahs. -.The prboerty cons.ecrated to their.;use by a pierptual seryiteode or.easement,, is- to- be -tiken -from them; the
sepulchres' of the dead are to -be Iiilated-; .the feelings .of
religion, and tle senftiment -of-natural affection -of the -kindied and friends.of the deceased;are .o be wounded; and
the memorials erected by piety tor
e,.to the. me
d;oryof
th
good, ate-to. be removed so as to-leave no-trace-of the last
hohe of- their ancestry ,to -those who may visit the spot in
'future.generations.. It cannot be thait:sueh acts are -to be
Rep. 500; nhablitants 9 f Shapleigh vk Oilrman, 13
I .Mass. ep..190 ; -Burrard's
.!'B.2 .Mod.E rkt.!413. b..
case, 1*2.Jac.

JANUARY TZRM 1829,
.Beattyand Rilehie vs- Kurtz and others.]-

redressed by th6 ordinary process of law. The remedy.,.
must be sought, if at all, in the protecting power *ofa court.
of chancery; operating by its injunction to preserva.the. re,
pose of the ashes of-the dead, and 'the religious sensibili.ies
of the living.
The only difficulrty is whether the plaintiffs have shown
in themselves a:sufficient authority, since it is not e.videnced
by'any formal vote or writing. If it were, necessary, to decide the 'caseaon this, point, we should incline to think- that.
under all the circumstances it. might be fairly presuined.
iBut
t is not necessary to decide the case bn this point;
because, we think' it one of those casesi in'-'hich certain
persons,-beonging "to a voluntary s ciety; and haying- ;
common interest, may sue itt-behalf or themselves ai.
others having.the like interest, as part of the same sbcielyi
for purposes common to all, and beneficial to. all. Thussome -of-the parishioners may sue a parson to establish a
neral modus, withbut'joining all; and some of the membcdr
of a voluntary society oi" company, when the parties are yery
,numer6us,_ may sue for anacebunt against others, vithpnjoining all(a).
And upon the whole we are of opinion, -that the decree of
the circuit dourt ought to be affirmed with costs.(b)

This. cause came on;to be hard onthe transcript o- tAhe
record' from the circuit court of 'the United States, for the
district of Columbia, holden in and forithe County of Washington, and was argued by counse.l; on consideration whereof,
it is considered, ordered and decreed by this Court that the
decree of the said circuit court' in this 6duse be, -and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs.
(a) coopees ./q.
RPZead. 40, 41'; -AMtf. Pldad. .140.
(b) If a laymn t by the dissolution of monasteries, hath a monastery in which
there is a church, part of it, and he suffers the parishioners for a long'time to
come there to hear divine 'service, and to use itas a parish church ; that shall
give a jurisdiction to the ordinary to order the seats ; because th'at noW, in fact,
it becomes the parish church, which before was not subject to the =.yinary: adjudged 12 .Ta. C. B.; Buzzard's case, 2 .Mod. E. 413. 6.

Vor,. 11.-3 Y

