JANUARY TERM 1829.

.. 107

AniiiHxA VE ABLE &Nb GEOROG M'DoNALD, APPELLAWTS "0S.
oF .TnE -BANK oF
crOs AND Comp_.
c
THE .PRESIDZXEN '
THE U=IEDSTATEs, A:PPELLEEs.
The Court set aside a conveyance wIhich had been made to defeat the claims of
creditors.
In proceedings to set aside a"conveyance of ieal estate, made in fraud of the
rights of creditors, it is not necessary to n'ake a- nortgagee of the. estate a
party.; his rights under the mortgage not being brought into question. [112]

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States fo.r
the district of Kentucky.
The, appellees, at the May term 1822 of the circuit court
for the district of Kentucky, .obtained a decree against Venable and .others, for the sum of $4,700"with interest and
costs' upon which execution was issued, and leviedby the
marshal upon 367 acres of land and sundry slaves and other
property, named in ihe return, dated. Septeinber 2, 1822,
shown, as the marshal says, " as the property bf Abrih'am
Venable,, and not sold for the.want of time."
On the 26th of. November 18-2, the appellees exhibited
their bill, in which, affer giving a hiht.ory of their case, and
stating the facts of the levy on.the property of Venable as
above; they charge, that on the 9th day of February 1892,
the said Venable executed two *several deeds, wher.by he
conveyed all the land, slaves and effe6ts, which belonged.
to him to George. M'Donald, who is made defendant: that
"the said keeds are fraudulent, int~nded-to defraud the
creditors of the. said Venable, particularly the cdmplainants,
and were executed Without any valuabl6e..or legal c.ssideration passing -between the parties, with that fraudilent purpose and-intent," &c. &c. Tife bomplainants pray-thiat -the.
said.estate and property be decreed:to'be- sold to discharge
the debt aforesaid; for an injunction; and for general relief:.

The defendant, M"Donal d by his answer admifs, that he
claims the propertyas his 'own,.by virtue of .a cofitract,.and
the conveyances which -are 'refeireA to";- and also'.iii- virtue
of a mortgage execte'd long anterior to the decree against

:-108 "

SUPRE*E COURT.
[Venable .andAIDonald vs. The Bank of the United States.]

Venable, by said Venable to him and George Norten; in
order- to indemnify .them for their joint liability, as the securify of Venable in two bonds,' the one as the administrator of the estatfe of George Adams, and also as the security for said Venable as the guardian of the infant heirs of
said Adams; states the probable extent of that liability; and
denies all fraud or intention of fraud.
The evidence and proceedings, and other -matters in the
- case, are stated more at large in the. opinion of the, Court.
. The court -below,. by' decree, declared the conveyance to.
M'Donald fraudulent' and void, and directed the sale of
the estate,, under the, execution; subject howeiver to the
mortgage executed by the defendant Venable to the defendant George JJ'Donaldand George NoVorten, "dated the
22d Mllay 1820, which deed of mortgage is not in any manne to.be affected by. said'decree.
The defendants below' prosecuted this appeal, and claimed to reverse the same bn the ground : .
1. That the court erred in the' decree, in annulling the
deeds of Abraham Venable to George M'Donald.
2. The dourt ought not *to have directed a-'sale bf the
real -and personal estate, conveyed by Abraham Venable to
George M'Donald and George Norten, and in their possession; until the mortgage was satisfied, -or the condition-it
contained, was performed.-.
3; Want of parties. No decree should have been pro-,
nounced by Wvhich the interest of Geor ge Norten in the
mortgaged premises could be affected, as he was not before
the court.
The clase was argued for the appellants by.Mr Wickliffe,
and by Mr Sergeant for the appellees.
Mr Wickliffe contended, that upon the evidence in the
cause, it was manifest that the liabilities of M'Donald for
Venable, were sufficiently great to authorise the transfer to
him of the whole property conveyed by the deeds for his
protection. The extent and effect of the'mortgage- could
not be ascertained until the settlement of the dccounts of
Venable, as guardian of the children 'of Adams; and there-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

109

[Venable and M'Donald vs. The Bank of the United States.]

fore., the amount oT M'Donald's liabilities as the surety of
the guardian,, were undetermined and must remain so until
that event.
Guardians. are -appoizited - by the county courts o? Rentucky, )under te autioritj of the first sectiontof the act of
1797,, 1 Littell, 6.73; an4 the court.are required 1to- take
'gq.d security of all- guardiarii by them appointed." The
act of 1809- ,Littell, .125, directs-these bonds to be taken
in the. name of the commonwealth; and he-cod tended that
the responsibility of the security was beyond the penalty in
the,bondh and to the whole extent of the estate which might
come into the hands of-the&guddiala
By; an action of
" covenant" on. the obligation- the lialdility of the. _surety
might be so extended';.,when, if ".debt" wasbrought the pebnalty in the bond wouldlimitjt.
.2. If the decree of the court had gone no further than 'to
vacate the deed alleged. to be fraudulent, the proceeding
might have been sustained. It was no matter who had the
equity of redemption of the estate, but the .possession of the
estate was important, and this-should not have been touched.
A creditor may protect himself by the purchase of prope'rty,
which he knows is about to be.sold under an execution..
3. The decree of the court, if carried into effect, will
take the possession of the estate from'George Norten, who
was not a party to the proceedings.
Mr Sergeant, for the appellees, went into a full examination of the facts of the case as admitted by the appellant
Venable; -and shown, by' the evidence, to establish fraud.
He denied that, upon the evidene, the responsibilities
of M'Donald exceeded the amount of th6 mortgage executed
to him and Norten; and cltimed, that'by a reference to the
accounts and doiuments exhibiting. the amount of the
estate
which came, or-could come into the hands-of Vernable
'as guardian
of the children;of Adams, -it
would manifestly
appear that the protection -of the surety was,' under .that
mortgage, Icomplete.
No decision had been produced fo show that the liability of
the-surety for a guardian goes beyond the penalty of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Venable and-M'Donaldci s. The Bank of the United States.]

bond; and it is contrary to every principle of law, that such
-should be the fact. A careful examination of the acts of
the assembly of 'Kentucky, will make it e.vident that such a
liability does not exist.
Tiere was no obligation on the appellees to make George
Norten a party." A mortgagor may convey the equity of
redemption without consulting the mortgagee. In this case,
the decree of.the court directed a sale of the property, subject -to the mortgage; and the rights of Norten were not
affected by this proceeding. The whole purpose of th6 bill
of the appellees was to set aside the conveyances to M'Donald, and the decree goes no further.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the bircuit court of
the Kentucky district. The Bank of the United StAtes, at"Lexington, Kentucky,
on the d. df July 1819, Aiscounted.a note of. the same. date
for $4700, signed .by one George Norten, payable sixty days.
after,date, to one Daniel-Halstead or order, and by him indorsed to Abraham Venable, and. subsequently and severally
indorse'd by William Adams afid Joshua, Norten, .and.by tlhe
latter to the bank. The riote was not paid at maturity, and
due diligence haying been used t6 obtainkthe amoint from the
maker,' according to the: local law; a- suit in equity, was
brought in the circuit court in Noveniber 1821; against all
the indorsers (as is course by the local law), in which a'de.cr
6'fr pfindipal, interest andwcosts ,wa rendered' in May
1822. An executibn issued. -upon.this.decree against- the
parties, upon which a tract of land of.'200 acres, a tract.of
1.13'acres, several'negroes,'and some otber personatlpropeqty
of Venable, were le-ied on, butthe sanfe were notsdld'; the
former for want of proper bidders, he- latte, on account of
a claim set up to the same, -by the defendakt, Georg6
M'Donald.
The present bill1 after stating these facts, charges that on
the 9th of February 1822, Vefible made two. deeds to
M'Donajla, by which he coniveyd4 The tractso-f land and other
property to W.Donald, and that the sam deeds were'c lour-

JANUARY TERM -1829.
[Venable and PI'Donald vs. The Bank of the United States.".

able and fraudulent; and the prayer of the bill is that the
deeds may be declared fraudulent, and the property may be
decreed to be sold; and an injunction granted in the mean
time, and for further relief.
The answers ofthe defendants, M'Donald and Venable,
deny that the deeds of file .9th of February 1822, were colourable or .fraudulent, and on the- contrary, assert them to
have been bona fide, and for a valuable consideration.. The
answer of k'Donald further sets up a mortgage executed by
Venable on the 22d of May 1820, to him, M!Donald, and one
(qeorge'N6rten, (who is not a party to the "bill),'f a.tract
of land of about 245 acres (part of the land in controversy),
and ofiiine negroes (including those in controversy), to secure.them against a-bond executed by.them as sureties, with
Venable as- principal, upon his appointment as. guardian of
the infant children of George Adams deceased, whose motheir
Venable had since married, she having previously adminis-.
tered upon Adams's -estate. The guardianship, bond was in
the penal sum of $4000, and upon 'the usual condition.
The .cause being put at-issue, upon the final hearing, the
court decreed .the deeds of the .9th of February 1822, to.be
colourable, and fraudulent, and ordered. the sameto be set
aside and annulled; and that the plaintiffs might pursue their
judgment and execution against the real ah personal estate
of Venable, as if the said deeds had never been made; .subject however to -the mortgage aforesaid, uihich was not in
any mdnner whatever to be affected by this decree.
It is upon an appeal taken by Venable and M'Donald tothis decree, that the cause is now before this Court; and independently of the merits as to the asserted fraWd, or good
faith of the dbeds of 1822, two objections-have -been-made
by the counsel for the appellants.
• The first is, thatthe couit erred, in directing- &sale oithe
estate .conveyed.t6 M'Ponald- and 'Norten, until their mortgage was satisfied, or the condition thereof performed$ be'cause it had-no right to change, by sale of'the estate,: the
rights or interests -of the mortgagees- under .a -conveyanc eadmitted to be valid, uless by their consent..' This.objectionis founded upbn a misinterpretation of the decree, which '

112

SUPREME COURT.
[Venabld and M'Donald vs. The Bank of the United States.]

does not.authorize. any sale to be made -by virtue of it, but
merely removes out of the way the deeds which obstructed
a sale at law under the judgment and levy. The decree also
leaves.the mortgage 'wholly untouched, and consequently no
sale could prejudice the rights appertaining to it,
- The next objection is, that George Norten, the mortgagee,
is not made a pa rty to the bill. But this objection falls for
the same reason as the preceding. As'the mortgage is not
in any measure interfered with by the decree, it is wholly
unnecessary *to make Norten a party to the bill. He has no
interests which art controverted or injurediby declaring the
nullity of the other deeds.,
The real question then is, whether the deeds of 1822 are
fraudulent or not; and'to that question the consideration of
the Court will now be addressed. The answers of the defendants, having denied all fraud, those answers are entitled
to stand, unless they are overcome by the testimony of two
witnesses, or 6f one witness and circumstances.
One of the deeds purports, for the consideration of $6260
paid and secured to be paid, to convey to M'Donald the two
tracts of land; the other, for the consideration of $3400, to
convey certain glaves, household furniture, horses, wagons,
hogs,-sheep, cattle, &c. and other stock usually belongiiig
to a farm. The bill charges that these constituted the whole
'estate of. Venable'; and this fact is not attempted to be
denied in the answer. Except his liability as guardian, and
as indorser of the note to the -bank, it does not 'appear that
Venable was at this time indebted to any persons whatever;
the fact. is chirged in the bill, that he was not under any
embarrassment, and it is supported by the proofs.
Here then is the case of a person upon the eve of a decree
being rendered against him for a large sum of money,'which
it is admitted would go far to his ruin, making conveyances
of his whole property real and personal to his brother-in-law,
for an asserted consideration equal to its full value. The
brother-in-law isproved to be a thrifty, industrious man, but
not at the time known to*possess property sufficient to pay
the purchase money; having other pursuits; -andas noon as.

JANUARY TERM ISM9.

113

.tyenabIAe and M'Donald vs. The Bank of the United States.]

the purchase is' made,.suff~ring the, "estate to re2ain in possession of the-former tnant.
How atid iii what manner, is the., consideration p. -. or.
receivad 9 M'Donald in hi§ answer states that Venable,
.under the administration- of hi§- wife on -Adhms's estAte,'and
his own guardianship of her ihfant childien, was indebted
for.assets received to the amouht of $6286 54; dnd that he,
M'Donald,"finding .that Venable had used this money and
was'wasting the estate of his wards, and ,was involved in
difficulties by his suretyship'for others, &c; with a view to
his:oft safety and that of George Norten (wh6 is now insolvent), first tolI'he mortgage, and afterw'ards beir fear"f-ul'of tlfe Waste of. the estate, was induced t6 purchase it,
th'athe'might have the. control. ofit, and accordingly he did
purchase'it.. The manner in which the consideration was"
pd'd'rid secured, he ,stdtes to have been as' followg. He
agsumed by a written contract given to Venabte, to pay.the
debt due by Venable to his w~vards; when they came of age,
and in the mean time to pay annutlly a sufficient sum for
tleir maintenance and support) to be;allowed in extinguishment of the interesthat might become ihtersnedite tydue.
The contract its6lf is now prbduced, and it contains an
agrehment to pay to thevwardg, ndt a spebific sum of money,
but "as much money as they shall have-a right to demand
of Venable, as guaidian, when they become of age.". -It
further contains a. promise to furnish Venable "as much
beef, pork, hay, corn, flour,. &c. to the amount of what it
shall be worth, to board, school and clothe" his Wwrds.
The residue of the consideration for the purchase, viz.
$2060 50 cents, M'Donald asserts to have .been paid by him
in money to Venable, part of which he admits that he borrowed, but he does not state how mudh. By the 'contract
above stated, he.was to pay the money within three months
after the purchase.
Such is the nature of the. purchase, and the consideration
as disclosed in "the answar of M'Donald, and.whicli Venable
in his .own answer adopts and supports.
'The first remark that arises on--,this pakt of. the case is,
that the whole consideration stated'in th_ deeds is $9660;
VOL. IL-P

SUPREME COURT.
[Venable and M'Donald vs. Tire Bhhk of the United Statesil

and that th* answers state the amount actually paid or
secured as no more than $82-.7. -This discrepancy is.
utterly unaccounted for. In the next place, the debt 'assumed to be dUe 'by Venable to his wards, is no where established to. have been really due by any proofs in the record. Now, this was a material fact in *the case, exclusively withinthe knowledge and power of the defendants;"
which they were boufid to establish by.competent evidence,
and which, in its 6wn nature, was susceptible of proof beyond their inswers. It was ,ital to the good faith of the
transaction. -The omission to do it, would, of itself, thrcw
some doubt-upon the transaction- But the proofin"the record,. so far as it- goes, aff(rds a strong negative upon 'the
assumed debt. The inventory of Gebrge Adancs's personal
estate i§ only $2032 7 cents. His widow (independently
'of The charges of administration) was entitled to one third
part of it.. One of the children (a daughter) died early,•during her minority; and -withotit stopping to inquire,.
whether her share in the personalty:vould. not fall to the'
mother, the remaining'sum, deducting only the mother's
third, left the sum -f $1355 only -as the distributable
:shaieg. of Venable's wards. There is in- the record a paper
which is without any signadture or-proof of "any.sort, which
puts Adams's personal estate at a much lower sum than the
inventory, but which, by adding his real estate at '$2200,
and the rent for three years, and the hire of negroes
and interest, 4*6lfs the. aggregate of his- estate to $6286.54
cents.'" This paper-can be viewed in no other light than a
mere speculative statement; but if it were otherwise, it is
obvious that it cannot be permitted to pass as proof -of the
balance then due to Adams's children.
In the first place, the real estate is~not properly chargeable
to the adcount of the administrator or guardian merely as such.
The- suggestion is that it'was aifterwards sold dnd the proceeds received by Venable, for -which he may be justly beld
accountable. There was no sale made, so far at least as
•we have any evidende, under the general act of Kentucky 'on
this subject, passed on the third of February. 1813, and
therefore that may be l'aid out of the question; though it is"

JANUARY .TERM 1829.

115

.tenablea'nd M'Donabd w. The BankI{of the United States.].

.observable,. that a guardian is not authorised urkder that act
to sefi without an order of court, and. giving a bond with
sufficient sureties, -The only proof of any authority to sell
found in the -record is. the following order: " Fayette
county, to wit, April court,.-1818". On motion of Abraham
Venable,.Patterson Bain,'E. Yiesei, and Charles Humphreys
are-appointed conmissioners, under the act of assembly of
the last session, for the sale of the estate mentioned in said
law, as-belonging to the heirs of George Adams deccased,
tituated in Lexington."' The act here referred to is not in
the record, but so far as we can gather its contents by the
order itself, the. commissioners, and not .the.guardian wqre
authorised to make the sale. Their proceedings under the
order do not-appear. The only evidence is from a purchaser
"at'the sale,-who states that he bought the estate at about
$2200, and, with the exception -of about -$300, he paid
the money to 'Venable by direction of the commissioners...
Whether this payment was authorised by the act is left. uncertain;and indeed whether security was not directed to
be taken fiom the commissioners on the sale, as in ordiiary
cases. -It is-far from being certain that 'the sureties on
Venable's guardianship bond were liable for the sum so re.ceived. But-we may assume for the present that they were.
- Then, there is a charge- of $900 for. rent receivud Upon
the' real estate' for three years; and for hire of negroes for
seven years $490, although'the inventory me'ritions only
negro girl and child, valued at" $300; and to corm"end
plete the amount, a Charge of. interest is added on the
whole, of $1171 98 cents. Now, certainly, there is no pre-.
tence for the last charge, and no- justification of -iiby any
pr6of. 'The children were maintained during this whole
period by Venable and his wife; and iji the most favourable
view, if Adams's estate had been. cordpletely settled, the'
interest and income from the children's shares of his whole
estate could not be presumed to amqunt. to more than, if to.
so much as, the reasoriable expenses for, their support
tifey did, that'faut should
and maintenance." At least. -if
have bedn. made out by some probable evidence. Then,
again, the guardianship bond -is in the penalty of $4000
-

I 5

SUPREME COURT.
IVenable and M'Dobad vs.'The Bank of tlie.Vnited Stafeed

"only; and this circumstance discredits, the suppositior4
'that the sureties had incurred any- liability bey oid:that
.amount. The usual practice is to take the penalty" irp
doubler ther amount of the supposed value of the -propertyi'nfended to be secured by it. The original administrstion
bond 6f Mrs Venable was in the jenalty o$f dnly $6066, and
the inventory of personal estate of-George-Ad.ams, made by
her dn oath, which is not.attempted to be impugned, covers
.but one third of that amount Ithas been saidkat the bar
that by'the lawsof Kentucky, suretiesl'may be charged beyond the penalty of Aheir. bonds, and to the same,extent' of
liability as their, pripcipajs. If this were so -it would diminish the force of any argument grQunded on the penalty;
though it.certainly woutd'.not ,*stablish that there was iq
fact a debt due to the children, beyod 'that sum. .But
among the acts of Kentucky,. we cannot find any statute
that leads to such -a conclusion.. The .act of 23d January
1810,. cnncerning the bonds.of certain officers, guardiahs,
administrators and 'executb6s, has-no 'rovision, which-varies
from the general law on this subject limiting the responsibility of sureties to the penalty of the -bond., It r. -rely.decares that " an .action in one case on-such' bond shall. in
no wise alate or bar an action thereon for another causef"
which is entirely consistent with a recognition of the genegal, rule of law. And the act.of 15th January 1811, which
is supplementary to the former; and gives a remedy against
sureties beyond the penalty of the bond, is expressly.limited to bonds gi en by "public ocers. No adjudged case
has been cited, 'which goes to establish the. position, -that
the statute of 1810 ,has been' differently construed by the
state courts. It is not in our 'view of-the facts a very material consideration, because *there is no evIdene offered,
which proves that "adebt was' due to Venable's wards, even
to ihe amount-of the penalty. And in a case like the.present, it was indispensable for the defendants'to make out-so
material a fact'.with all due certairlty. The Court, cannot
presume it. 'The 'statement already alluded to, as a statement of the administration or guardifnship account, contaihs no deductions whatever, either for charges, taxes,..re-

JANU ARY TERM 1829.
[Venable and M'Donald vs The Bank of tbe United States.]'

pairs,, or even for debts due from the intestate, or for expenses incurred: for the children.. It assumes-only one side
of the. account, and'deals not in any credits, though the
presumption of their existence is almost irresistible..
In respect-then to this part of the assumed'consideration
of the deeds,there is the want of certainty as to any amount'
of-debt due to the-children.; and the'-contract given to-secure
to Venable, does not ascertain any amount as due. It merely
provides- in general terms that. M'Donald shall pay to the
children "as much money-as they shall have a right to demand," &c. when they shall come~of age, and in the inter.mediate time they are to receive an'amount sufficient-for
their support and maintenanced. Even this .contract" is left
wholly without aniy mortgage or.other security for its fulfilment, either -to Venable- or to the children; and Venable
strips himself of his whole estate, and-relies exclusively upon
the gQod faith and solvencf of M'Donald, to extricate himself
from all future difficulties. -Such a case may exist , but it
must involve some suspicion, when the7 party who resorts .to
such measures, has a demand hanging over him, which goes
deeply to affect'his solvency and his interests, and may furnish another and cogent m6tive for the transaction'.
-The provision in this contract for the support and maintenance of the children, is somewhat extraordinary, and of a
very indefinite nature and extent. -. M'Donald agrees to deliver to Venable "as much, beef, lpork, hay, corn, flour, &c.
to the amount of what it-shall be worth, to board, school,
and clothe" them. So' that., evdn the amount is-not fixed,
and isto depend upon -the future pleasure of the Iarties.
In case ofa real purchnie, such a- provision could not-be
expected' even though it went imerely to keep down the accruing interest; and in the present case, it is not by !ts terms
confined even.within that limit. - The eQatract itself is not
avowed upon the face of the deeds, and must be deemed a:
mere private and secret -bargain, fo be kept back by the
parties.
-Then,again,.as to the remaining cash-payment of $206050
cents. The bill directly charges that it was a mere formal

payment,; and that the "money was -by the.said Venable re-

S18"

SUPREME COURT.
[Venable and M'Donald vs. The Bank of the United States.]

turned back to M'Donald, or to the person of whom M'Donald
borrowed it." The answer of M'Donald admits that a part
was borrowed; but his denial of its return is couched in
terms of an ambiguous purport. He says that the sum of
$206o

-

50 cents "*was paid by this defendant in the presence

of Moses S. Hall," &c. That he "borrowed a portion of
the money to enable him to make the cash payment. That
it was paid by him. to his co-defendant (Venable) in good
faith, and that io -part of .it was returned to him by said
Venable, nor did this defendant receive any part of said
money back from said Venable by any fraudulent contrivance,'as the complainants have falsely alleged." Venable
in his answer says, "that the said suip of money was paid to
him by his co-defendant (M'Donald) -ingoodfaith,and that
no part of it was returned by him to his co-defendant." Now
it is remarkable, that neither of these answers, in terms, denies that the money so borrowed was returned back to-the
person of whom it was borrowed, which, is the gist of the
charge in the bill; nor does M'Donald deny that he received
it back; but only that it was not returned to him by Venable.
Nor are these allegations thus loose, from mere accident or
carelessness. On the contrary, the proof is direct, that the
money borrowed was returned to M'Donald, and was by him
returned to the lender. Mbses S. Hall, in. his testimony,
says he was present when the money was paid, and it was
handed to .lrs Venable. William Achison testifies that
M'Donald told him that the next-morning after the money
%as paid, Mrs Venable was at his house with the money, on
her way to town to deposit it in bank, and he, M'Donald,
borrowed it of her and returned it to Hendley (the lender)
the -same day. Hendley himself, in his testimony, says,.
"M'Donald came to'me and told me that he had'nucie -a
purchase; that I was a man of tolerable good sense, I could
.tell by a little, what a good deal meant.; and observd -that
he wished to borrow of me $1000, which I loaned him, and
stated he would return it in afew days. He observed that
Venable was embarrassed by a debt on account of .Jbrtan,

and that he had'bought him out of every species of property,
.ani that he Wanted the money to pay him. He alo offered

"JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Venable and M'Donald vs.-The Bank of the United States.]

me -a mortgage on- a negro man-and a tract of land for the
payment of the money, but I declined receiving any security,
&c. because I expected to receive the money back in'a few
days. .1took a memorandum of the amount and numbers'of
the differenfnotes loahed him, thinking it was possible L
should receive the saine notes back, 8C. h1iabout three or
U
the same notes
four days 1 received f2tm sdi 1'Donald
back akain. M'Donald stated to me,, that he was security
for'Venable, as guardian of -MrsVeniable's children, to the
amount of $3000 or $4000, and that he made this purchase
to secure himself." In point of fact, independently of the
purchase, as we have already seen, he hid 'a mortgage on
the" same estate as security for that vtry liability. , But it is
impossible to, wink so hard, as "not to perceive, that-if this
statement be true, and it is no where contradicted or denied,
the borrowing of the money was merely to exhibit before
witnesses a formal payment, and that there was no real bona
fides iithis part of the transaction. It was an attempt, fruitless, as the event has shown, to throw a colourable gloss
over ther real tran.action.
How th ' other part of the purchase moniey was obtalhed,
is not proved by the defendants, although there is some hearbut the ansay evidence, that other money was borrowed ;.
statement
Qf
the
amount.
furbish
no
swers of the defendants
There is also testimony in-the case from several-witnesses,
,of the, confessions of -Venable, as to the object of the deeds,
and of subsequent acts of control over the estate to some
extent, from which umfavourable inferences have been deduced at the argument againstthe validity of the deeds.- It
has been said at the bar, 'that these confessions and acts,
being subsequent to the execution of the deeds, ought not
. to be permitted to prejudice the title -of M'Donald, and are
not evidence to bind. him. It is true, that neither the acts
nor confessions of a grantor, under such circumstances, are
admissible to defeat the title-of the grantee. -But they are
certainly admissible to disprove the answer of the grantor.,
when he is a part; to the bill. - If4hey discredit his answer,
tkey withdraw from the case all the influence which his concurrence in the statement of the grantee would otherwise
-

120

SUPREME COURT."
[Venable and M'Donald vs. The Bank of the United States.]

have; and to this extent they have a bearing upon the whole
merits of the case; but not beyond it. Upon examination of
these confessions, they certainly exhibit some misgivings on
the part of Venable, and some proof, that the sale of the
est~te.was.'to defeat the debt due by him to the bank, as
security of Nort'en. The acts of control by. Venable over
the estate are more equivdcal'; ancr but for his subsequent

liberal participation in all the.lOk.duc of the estate, would,
perhaps of themselves, not be very significant. As the case
is,.they cannot but have some w ight.
Upon the whole, without going more at large into the
uase, tije circumstances .are such, that it appears to us these
deeds',were not bona fide and for a valuable consideration,
and therefore they were properly set aside by the circuit.
court. Looking to the nature of th.e .transaction, the assumed
confederations, the relation and circumstances of the parties,
the impending decree, the sweeping extent -of the deeds,
the non-disclosurej on the face of them, of the real considerations,'the objects of the collateral andsecret contract, the
very great doubt.as to what was due to the children, and the
ambiguous explanations of the parties; we think the piesumptions are so strong against the validity pf the deeds,
that they ought not to. be supported.'
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed, with costs.

*This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit .court of the United Stites for the
district of Kentucky, and was'argued by counsel; on*consideration whereof, it is considered, ordered and decreed by
.this Court,. that the decree of the said circuit court in this
cause be,'and the same is liereby.affirmed, with costs.

