'SUPREME COURT.

JAMES CONOLLY AWtD oTHEES, -APP'iELLANTS D.a. RICHARD TAYoR
AND

OTHnEES, Apv

LEms.

When there is no change ofiheparties to a suit, during its progress, ajurisdiction
depending nn the condition of the parties, is governed by that condition as it
was at the commencement of th suit. [565]
If an alien should sue a citizen, and should omit to state the character of the
patties in the bill, though the-Court tould not exercise jurisdiction while the..
-defect in the bill remained, yet it might, as is everyday's practice, be corrected at any time before the hearing, and the Court would:not hesitate to decree
in the cause. [565]
The suit was originally instituted by aliens and a citizen of the United States as
complainants, against the defendants, citizens of the United States. Inthe
progress of the cause, and before ihe final hearing, the name of the citizen of
th United States who was one of the plaintiffs was struck out -and he was
made a defendant by the Court. It was he.I.' ie substantial parties, plaintiffs, those for whose benefit the decree is 3ought, are aliens, and the Court
has original jurisdiction between them and all the defendants. But they-prevented the exercise of this jurisdiction by ul~iting with themselves a person.
betweehi whom and one of the defendants the Court could not take jurisdiction:
strike outhis name as a complainant, and the impediment is removed to the
exercis "of, that original jurisdiction which the Court possessed between the
alien parties, and all the, citizen defendants. There is no objection, founded'on
convenience or law, to this course. '[S65],

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States. for the district of Kentucky, in which court the appellants were complainants, and the appellees wege defendants.
In.the circuit court of Kenttrcky, on the 20th of February
1818, Thomas Conolly, James Conolly, Margaret Conolly,
David David, and Francis Badley, alien and subjects of the
king of.the united lingdoms of GreatBritainand Ireland,
and Samuel Mifflin, a citipen of the state of Pennsyflvania,
filed their bill against certain -defendants, claiming to have
an equitable title to a large tract of lands in right of colonel
John Conolly deceased,situated at the falls of Ohio, in the
staie-of Kentucky. The defendants in the bill were Richard
Taylor, Fortunatus Cosby and Henry Clay, -citizens of Kentucky, and William LYtle, described in the subpsna as a

JANUARY TERM "1829.
[Conolly'and others vs. Taylor an-d others.j

citizon of Kentucky, but who was in fact a citizen of the
"tate of Ohio. The-subpoena was served on all the defendants, Mr Lytle having.been- found by tie process in Ken-,
tucky.
YThe. answer of Mr Lytle protests against the jurisdiction
of the circuit court, he being i. citizen of the state of Ohio.
In the further progress of the'suit before the circuit courtf
at-May term.1823.on motion on the part of the complain- °
ants, the name of Samuel Mifflin was struck out of the bill
as. a plaintiff, and he was made a defendant-; after-which he
answ'er4-afi amended bill filed against him.
-Whej therefore the case ca lae on toa, hearing in the ciicuit courty'at Xvay lerm 1826, the parties complainants-were
all aliens anfd-.subjoects of the king of Great Britain and Ireland;.two of the defendants were citizens of the state6f.
Keptucky)-one of them was a citizen" of the state of Ohio,
and Samuel. Mifflin was a citizen, of the state of- Pennsylvania.
The cause was argued upon an-objection to the jurisdiction of the case in thecirdut court of Kentucky, and upon
its merits. This Court bei.ng divided. upon the merits, and
no opinion having been: expressed upon any other question
in the cause but that of jurisdictio. ;_the reporter does not
consider himself permitted .to;state any of the facts of the
case, or the arguments of counsel, other than those- coninerted with that point.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in- error were Mr Wirt, attorney general, Mr Wickliffe, and Mr-Peters. For the .de-.
fendants, Mr Sergeant and Mr Nicholas.
In support of the jurisdiction of the Court, it was argued,
that it was a subject of frequent regret that, the whole jurisdiction proposed" by the- constitution 'for- the courts of the
United States, has not been conferred by congress on these
bourts. The wise. policy of the constitution" has failed to.
take effect; and justice has often fallen short'and been. de?
feated by the mere defect of the judiciary system..
The Court will not be disposed, therefore, to narrow the

558

SUPREME COURT.
[Conolly and others vs. Taylor and others.]'

defective legislation which lhwi taken place, b.y putting-on it
a too rigorous constructi.on..
in the present'instance it requires. only"a fair construction
of the act of congress to sustain the jurisdiction.. All the.
caseq cited on'fh'e other side are admitted,-buit is conceived.that they do not touch the question of jurisdiction in this
case.
The Iith section 6f the judiciary actof.1789, givds jurlsdiction to the circuit courts "of ai1 suits of a civil nature at
common law or inequity, where the Matter* in .dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, .the- sum oi value, of five'hundr6d
dollars, and the United States-are plaintiffs or petitioners,,
or an alien isa partyor the suit is between .the citizen of a
state where the-suif is brought, and a citizen of another
state.." Thus'the aft pre~ents three distinct classes of cases,
where the Court takes "jurisdiction from the character *ofthe
parties; 1st, where the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners; 2d, where an alien js a party; and 3di.where the action is between a citizen of the-state where'the suit is brought)
and a citizen of another state.
The counsel for the appellees suppose that this case falls
withifi the third class, and they have cited several'cases deCided in th' circuit courts to show that-where the case. does
fall under the third class,'one of the parties must be a citizen.
of the state in which the suit- is brought.,
If it Were conceived that the case did*belong to the third
class, it might well be contended that the objection came too
late from Mr Lytle; because it is a privilege on which the
party may insist, or.may waiveat pleasure; and that after appearing and answering to the merits, it is too. late to make
if. Gracie vs. Palmer) 8 JTheaton, 699. The-case of the
Abbey, 1 Mason, 360. 3 M.lason,, 158.Lytle appeared and answered to the, merits; and although
in his answer he suggests an objection to the jurisdiction of
the court, he does not state the-specific' ground.. of. his- objection.

-

. ...-.

.

Besides, according to thechancery practice, a -plea inabatement-to the jurisdiction, and an adswer to the'merits
cannot stand togethe?, but the answer overrules the plea.

. JANUARAY TERM 1829.
[Conollyan. others

559

. Taylor and others.]

But the conclusiye an swer toAhe objection of the want of
jurisdiction is, that'thi s"ase does not belong"to the third

class of cases put by th&.judiciary act, 'but blongs to the
second.

The 'third class being of sbits'between citizen'and .citizen,
* has been judicially settled'to relate to cases not-where citi-.
zens were the nominal"paities 'only, but :where .the interests
also are citizel interests.

In Brown et'al. -vs. Strode, 5 Cranch,303, this Court decideri, that'the courts of the United States have jurisdiction
of a case'between citizens of the.'same state'wzere the
*'laintiffsare t.nly nominal parties for 1he use of. an alien..
'The plaintiffs, in that, were the justice of the.peace for the
county of Stafford in Virginia,. and were all citizens of that
state.. Thd"defendant -Strode was also a citizen of that
state. The action was on an executor's bond: no one could
'have sued'on that bond but the plaintiffs, to whom the bond
had. been given. . They were, therefore, 'necessary and indispensable parties.
But the interests involved in the suit being the interest of
an alien; the suit- being for the us e of the alien; the nominal-plaintiffs being, quo'ad, hoc, merely trustees for the
alien,- sueing solely for his benefit, without any interest in
th6 subject themselves, the jurisdiction was diaintained on
this ground and on this alone.
.So here, Mifflin,. one of the nominal plaintiffs, had, and'
still has,.no manner of interest in the case. He is a mere
trustee under the will ofi John Conolly, for the- alien".com-plainants, and the suit is, broughf solely for the use of aliens.
In principle the case is identical with that of Brown et al.
vs. Strode. Like 'tlat it-is purely a suit for the recovery of
alien 'interests,- and like fhat this suit-is-well founded, as
being -in substance a suit by aliens.
Again,'Mifflin was a pattysolely for-conformity; that is,
a merely formal party; The ,test .of a defendant being
merely a formal.'party-is, that no detree 'can' be 'repd.ered'
against him, that 'is, against his, interests-or affecting' 'his
ifiterest. E converso the test of -a compiainant being
"merely-a'formal party, is, that- no decree can be rendered

SUPREME COURT.
[Conolly and others vs. Taylor and others.]

for him ; that is, no decree in favour of his interests; and
the joinder or non-joinder of, such aparty cannot affect- his
interests;
In support of which cited the following authorities. 'Pussell vs. Clark,, 7 - Cranch,-69;. Woxmley vs. Wormley, 8
Wheaton, 421 ; West vs. Randall, 2 Mason, 181.
The suit, then, beiing substantially, and,. according to
Brown and others vs. Strode, a suit by.aliens, is it any.objection to the jurisdiction of the court that some of the defehdants re citizens'of Kentucky,. where the-suit.is brought,
and one of them is a.citizen of Ohio q. Is it necessary, when
the plaintiffs are aliens, that the defendants should be -citizen of t4p particular state where the suit is brought .i
The judiciary act ddes not make *this necessary. The
1.th section gives the jurisdictioi where an alien is a party,
without a word more; there is no qualification of this jurisdiction from the. residence of the 9pposite parties ; it- is
enough if they be citizeris of the United States.
Will this Court create a liiitation on their jurisdin.tion
When the law has created none.
Is it not thd object 'of the -law and of the constiutlon, in
all cases, to give -the alien, where he is a party to the siiit, an
impartial tribuinal 'ia the courts of the nation q And is nol
this object as strongljdemanded, where his antagonists are
citizens of different states, as where they are citizens of the
same state .
The manifegt object of the constitution and law, is to prevent the alien from being driven into the state courts, and
there encounterinig, the prejudices whieh'were to bQapprehended'in th.local courts; but this salutary purpose will be
totally defeated, if by the residence of his. adVersd~rie's in
different states you. comnpef him to go into the courts of the
state where some of them reside. Hence the law founds
the'jurisdiction in any case where an alien is.a party.
If ybu limit his, right to a case.-in which all his -adversaries
res'de in the same state, you defeat, so far, the salutary purpose of the constitution and the law.
Reverse the case, suppose that citizens ofdiffereft states
-have a joint claim against an alien, can they not bring a suit

JANUARY TERM. 1829.

561

[Conolly and others'vs. Taylor and others.]

againsfhim in the federal court 9 The single criterion ofjurisdictJory put by the law has occurred. "An alien' is a party,
and it is no where .said that -the opposite parties must all
belong to the same state."
Will you not apply the same orule, wiere the alien is the'
plaintiff,.the casebeing the same.'?So far a's-the Court appear to -have touched this question
in former cases, it may be inferred, that their construction
is that which has been indicated.
When the-case iscone between citizens, it is necessary to
show the jurisdiction in the bill. or declaration, by averring
that the plaintiff is a citizen .of one state,"and the-defendant
of another. But when an alien- is a party, the jurisdiction.
has been held to be sufficiently shown by.stating that fact,
Ivithout.averring-that the-defendant is a citizen of the state
in which the suit is broughi.- Gracie et al, vs. Palmer et'al.
8 Whecaton, 699.
The 11th sectio.n contains this furtherprovision, 'Ythat no
civil suits shall be brought before either of the said courts
agginst an inhabitant of -the United States, by any original
process in any other district, than that whereof he is an inhabitant or in which he shall. be -found at.the time of -suing
the writ."'
Does this apply to suits brought by aliens, or is it confined
to iuits brought by citizens. Considered as applying to-suits.
.brought by citizens, it has been judicially prono.inced tobe
a very. inconvenient restriction on the constitutional grant of
jurisdiction. White vs. Fenner, 1 ,Mason, 521. That it
should apply to suits.by aliens may be well questioned.
The only substantial and real parties in interest to ihis suit,
were the aliens. Mr Mffin was made a party, complain-.
ant at,the commencement of the proceedings: but it was afterwards found that in order-to carry into effect the object
*of the bill, and to obtain frdm him, what the real parties had
a right to demand, it was necessary to make him- a defend.ant, Thus, therefore, in the circuit court, whei.the case was
heard, all the parties plaintiffs, even nominally., were aliens;
.and the defeidants were 'all- citizens of the United'States,
and alleged to be so on the record.
VOL.II.-:.3V

SUPREME COURT.
(Conolly and others vs. Taylor and others.]

For the defendants in error it was contended that the circuit court of the Kentucly district had no'jurisdiction. The
bill of complaint, which is the foundation and commencement of the suit in'equity, states Samuel F. Mifflin, one of
the complainants, to be a citizen of Pennsylvahia, and William Lytle, one of the defendants, to'be a citizen of Ohio.
William Lytle .pleaded to ihe jurisdicion; and thus saved his
right to' object, even if,he .had had power t6 waire'it; which
he had not, Cbnsent cannot give jurisdiction. Theobjectionl is not fouhded upon the provisiop, that a citizen shall
not be sued in the courts of tl'e United States, -exc'ept in
the state where he resides, or is found at the time of'serving
the process. That is a privilege which he niay waive by
appbarance..- It rests upon that 'art of-the act of congress,
(Act of 1789, sec. 11.) which expressly limits the jurisdiction;
(and so far as it rests upon the- character of the parties,.to
suits between citizens of diffqrent states,.one of them 'being
"a citizen of the state where the. suit is brought" There
is no doubt. 'that the jurisdiction, under -the constitution,might have been more extensive. 'The terms of,the constitution only reqtiire that she.parties should be citizens of
different states. " But the unifQrm cbopstriiction of this grant
of power has been, that it is to be exercised by the judiciary
only, to the extent which congress may authorise.
It isperfectly clear, upon this statement, that the circuit
court had nojfsrisdiction between -Mifflin and Lytle.. Section. 11, of the act of the 24th of September 1-789. The
Court is bound to notice the question of jurisdiction, whenever it may occuri and however proposed. 2 Dal. 368. The
plaintiff niay assign as error, the want ofjurisdiction,'though
•the tribunal'of the United. States Were resorted to by himself. The Court must see that it has j6 risdiction.
The jurisdiction must appear on the record affirmatively
Every thihg mtst be alleged that is necessary to give juris.
diction. 3 Dall. 382. 4 Dall.S. I Cranch,343. -2 Cranch
-186: 5 &ranch,185. 6 Wheat. 450.
This would beclear, if Mifflin and Lytle were the sole
parties. Does their joinder with others make any-differdnce .
The answer has long since been given: The plaintiffs and

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Conollyand others vs. Taylor and-others.1

defendants must all be competent to sue and be sued. Strawbridge vs. 'Ctrrtis, -3 Cranch, 267.- Hope Insurance Company vs. Boardman, 5 Cranch, 57. Bank of- the United
States vs. Deveraux, 5 Cranch,61.
If the plaintiffs be not allcompetent, it is immaterial whether th6-joinder is from necessity or voluntary. Corporation
of New -Orleans vs. Winter, '1 Wheat.- 91. 94.. -Ward vs.
Arredondo, 1 Paine.410.. The rule is the same as to defendants.
Some exceptions have been made, out of the generality of.
the proposition; but none.that in its terms or spirit can comprehend the present case. jn-Cameron vs. M'Roberts, 3
MWeat. 59f; it was debided, that ifa distinct interest vested
in one of the paties defendant, he being th.eone within the
jurisdiction, so that substantial justice could be done,-sofar
as he was concerned, without affecting the other defendatits,
the jurisdiction of the Court might be exercised as to filin
alone. Thatis, to apply it to the present case, ifJ ytle were'
within the juri.diction, the case Unight proceed against him
•alone;- for- here, Lyt.le.was .the sole party in interest. . It
so appears by the bill of complaint,-the title having.rome
to be entirely vested in him' But he who was thus the only
material Party,-was the very party who. wag out of the jur'isdiction, and not amenable to the Court.
So, it is very true, that the joinder of a mere formal party
defendant, does hot take awa the jurisdiction. Wormley vs.
-W6rmley, 8- Wheat. 421. 451. The criteriofi in such cages
is whether adecree is sought against him. Ward vs. Arredondoa 1 PaiAe, 410. If he be amaterialparty, e must be
brought in, even though the jurisdiction would-ihereby -be
ousted. Harrison vs. Rowan, Circuit Court,Mew Jersey District. But Lytle-was hot a mere formal party, he was an indispensable party, withoul whom no decree could, be made.
So, if impr6per persons be'made parties by mistake, who
are not subject ,to the jurisdiction. -Carneal vs. Banks, 10
Wheat. 187, 188." But her& there was no such. mistake in
joining, improper persons.
There is no case, therefore, wh.re the decision has been
contrary to what is-now contended for. The opinion that

SUPREME COURT.
[Conolly and others vs. Taylor and. others.]

in a suit at common'law in Pennsylvania, where non est inventus is returned as to one who is nQ.tLkubject to the jurisdiction, (2 .Wash. ', C. Rep.. 505. t-Pters'3 Rep, 431,
note) the proceedings may go on against the others; has no
applibdtioti
It is true; that in this case, the court in 1$21, (three years
after suit'brought) peimitted the complainantsito amend their
bill, by striking out Mt Mifflin 'as complainant, and making
him it defendant. But this was itself at exercise of judicial
authority, which could not rightfully take place, but in a.case
o0er which the court had previously a power. The court
could not-make the amendment, unless it-first had jdrisdiction. The fime of suit brought, is the. period- to which .the
question, of jurisdiction iipplies. Mollan vs. Torrance, 9
Wheat. 537. Itcannot afterwards be either vested or divested.
MrChief Jusiice MAJUSnALL delivered The pinion of the
Court.
As an objection was made to the jurisdiciion'of the.Curt
in this case, it may be proper,'in order to pylven't-a pos'sible misunderstanding of the principle on which jurisdiction is sustained, briefly to state it.
The bill is filed in the couit of the Uilted States, sitting
in Kentucky, by aliens and by 'a-citizen of Pennsylvania:.
The defendants are citizens of Kenttucky, .except one who -isa citizen of Ohio, on whom process was. served in 'Ohio.
The jurisdiction of the court canno beiquestioned, .so'far
as respects the alien- plaintiffs. As between the citizen of
Pennsylvania and. of Ohio, neither of them being a citizen
of the state in which the .suit wag brought, the court could
exercise no jurisdiction, Had the cause come on 'for. a
'hearing in this state of parties, a decree could not have
been made irr it for the want of jurisdiction. The name of
the citizen plaitiff, however, was struck out of the bill be:
fore the cituse was brought before the court; and thb question is, whether Vie.original defect was cured by 'this circumstance; whether the court, having" jurisdiction over all'
the parties then in the cause, could make a decree.
The coitnsel for the defendants" maintain the negative of

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Conolly and others vs. Taylor and.others.]

this question. They contend that jurisdiction depends on
the state of- the" parties-at.the commencement of the suit;
and that'no subsequent change can give or take it away.
They'say, that if an ali eh becomes a citizen pending the
not divested
suit, the jurisdiction which was once vested is'
of the
citizen
a
sue
by this circumstance. So, if a citizen
same state, he cannot give jurisdiction. by removing himself,
and becoming, a citizen of a different state.
This .is true, but the court does iot understand. the prin-.
ciple io be, applicable to the case at bar. Where'there is
no chang 'ofparty, a jurisdiction depending on thet'ondi-'
tion of the partyis governed by ihat condition, as it was at
the commencement of the suit. The. court in the. first- dase
had complete origin-al. jurisdiction; in the last it had no•
jurisdiction either in form or substance. But if an. alien
should .sue a citizen, and should omit' to state the. character
of the parties in -the bill : though the court could not exercise its:jurisdiction while this defect in 'the bill remained;
yet it-migh't, as iieveiy day's practice; 'be corrected atlany
time before the hearing, 'and the court would not hesitate
to 4ecree in the cause.
So in this case. The substantial patties pliiniiffs,. -those
for whose benefit'the-decree iss6ught, dre aliens; ind the.
'court has original jurisdiction beiweeh them.and all the defendnts. But they prevented the exercise of this jurisdiction, by uniting with themselves- a .person b etween whom
and ond of the defendants the'court cannot take jurisdiction.
Strike out his name as a complainant, and the imped'iment
'is removed to the exercise of that original jurisdiction which
the. court possessed, between the alibn plaintiffs and -all tl.o
citizen' defendants, We can perceive no objection,-founded
in convenience or in law, to this course.
Upon examining the -record, the judges- are divided- irk
opinion on the question; whether ihe d6fendantswh Qare'purchasers, have taken the lands charged' with the. equity
which was attached to it, while in possession. of .Campbcll
and his heirs; or are to be -considered as purchasers -without
notice., It would be useless. to state the argumerit.s and
facts in support of each opinion. 'The di'eree is affirmed
by a divided Court.

