.SUPREME COURT.

LE Royi BAYARD & Co.

PLAINTUFFS

IN

EROR Vs.

GEORO

JoHsoi,. DEFINDANT IN ERROR.
"In an action originally commenced against A. and B. as partners, upon an alleged.engagemest by the firm, and ybere A. who was not found or served with
process, was offered a~sd witness in favour of B., having been released by
B., the Court said; "It is to be premised. that the. only.ground upon which the
objection can-be -ested is thp supppsed interest of the witness in the event of
the.cause; since the, suit having'regularly abated as to -him by the return thathe %vas "no inhabitant," he was no more a party to it, than he woul' have
been had his name been altogether omittedin the .'declaration. As to the ob-'
jection upon the score of interest,'it is sufficient to remark, that it was manifestly hostile to the party ip whose favour he testified, and who offered it in
evidened; since' the plaint[r' recovery against the defendant, and satisfaction
from him; ivould be a bar to their action against the witness; and the release
of A. protected btim against any -action which A. might bring against him for
eontributioa or otherwise.' [194]
1.11 weUlseftfed, that if a bill of exchange bedrawn by one partner in the name
Qf the fir,or ifa bill drawn'on the firp4 by their usual name and style, be ac,,ept~d'by one of the'partners, all.the partnership are bound.' It results necessadly from, the nature of the association, and the objects for which it is constituted, that each partner should possess the power to bind the whole, when
acting in thername by which the partnership is known; 'alihough the consent
of the other'partners, to the particular contract should not' be obtained, or.'
shqitl be withheld. [197] .
Thiid'persons are not bound to inquire whether the partner with wbon they are
contracting is acting on the partnership account, or for his individual advantage. The interest of the partfier in the joint stock 6f the concern, and his
conseqtzent authority to use the partnership name, yaises a presumption that
the contract was.made for joint account ;whichis' sufficient to bind the,firm,
unless to the contrary be shown; and that the person with whom the parther deals.
had notice, or reason'to believe that the former was acting on his kepacate ac:
count, [198]
Where in' th' articles of partnership no name of the firm was mentioned as
agreed upon, and the concern weat Into operation under the articles, the books
being kept; and the bills and accounts relating to their transactions being made
out at their warehou q in thi"name of '5Hoffinan& Johnson;" it cannot be
questioned but that a name tIus assumed, recognised,, and, publicly used, became the lqgitimate name and style of.the firm; not less so, than if it had been
adopted-by the articles of partnership. [199]
Where a bill of exchange was drawn by A., after the iissolution of his partnership with.B., and th6"proceeds ofthe.bill went to pay,'and-did pay, the partnership debts ofA.&B.,which-A. 6n the dissolufi&E of the firm had assumed
to pay; the'holder of the bill-after its' dishonour cap 'have no claim on B. in
c6isequene'oftheparticular appiopriation of the proceeds of the ill. [1991
it IsAhmitted, that"Ifon'b of thepartnersContracted with a third person.inthe name

JANUARY TERM. 1829.
[Le Roy, Bayar4 & Co. vs. .ionnson.]
.of'thfirm after the dissolution, bbt .that fact not made -public,or knewn b3y
such third person, the law considdrs the contraqtas being made with the firm,
and on ther credit. But if.Abe partner deal'with another in his individual
name, and upon his sole responsibilityWithout even an allusiop to the part.
nership, it was unimportant t9 that othei toknow that the parin'ership was dissolved, since he was dealiog;,not with the firm, and upon -their credit, hut"
witlk'the individual with whom he was acting, upon his own credit. [200-

,AN action of debt.upor a bill-of exchange for £f1250 sterling, was instituted-by the' plaintiffs in erih,in the circuit
court for, the county of Alexandria, in the district of.Colum,
bia, against Jacob -Hoffman and. GeorgeJohnsoni alleging
them to be partners in -trade. B.y the stattite *of.Virginia,
adopted as the law of the county of Alexandria, this form of
action is-authorised-for the recovery of the s'um du6'upon a
bill. of exchange, and damage for non-payment. The declaration charged the bilLto have been drawnby Jacob Hoffman and George Johns" ,trading'a-s cozpartners in Alexandria. tinder the name of Jac'ob Hoffmaii the-same being for
the account of the concern; and -that the bill was. purchased
by the:plaintiffs, who remitted it :to London; where it was
pregenedto the'drawers, and was retuned protested.,
The process was not served, on Jacob Hoffman.
Upon the trial of-the 'cause, it was -proved that it was generally known in-.Alexandriain 1823, that the defendant
and Jacob Hoffman were jointly-concerned in buying and
selling pork; 'arid'by th~rticles-of co-partnership signdd by
both partners, and entered into -on the 10th of December.
1823, it was agreed, intenialithat the fundp necessary for
the purposes of the'partnerships were to be borrowed:rom
the banks or otherwise, upon the notes of George Johnson,
to be indorsed by Hoffman, or in -such other shape, as respects the paper of the parties, as might be found suitable
to the object intended. -The active partner in the business
was Jacob Hoffman, who, besides the business of the concern,
carried on that of a sugar, refiner, -a buyer,. seller, and.salter
of beef, and a tobacconist; andat t66 same time the defendant, George Johnson, was engaged in the transaction of
business on his own account, as a conimission merchant and
grocer.

-

SUPREME COURT.
[Le Roy, Bayard & Co. vs. Johnson.]

.The cashier. of the bank of Alexandrhi proved, that 'a
account was opened in that bank on the 3d of December
1823, which hefinderstood,'froni both parties, was to comprehend the dash deposits of the-joint concern, and the proeeds.ofnotes discounted for.the purpose of raising funds
for the sane. For some years before; Jacob Hoffman kept
an account in the baik, until the opening of the new account; upbn which the private, balance due the bank Was
transferred to it, and no money, could be drawn out of 'the
bank upon the account, but upo, the check of Hoffmng
drawn by .him'ir his own name. Accounts of a similar character, in the game fornd, and used in the same manner'and
for similar purposes Were proved to have been kept at-thesnme'period in the Farmers' Ban.k, and in the Bank of Potomac.
These' accounts comprehended, indiscriminately, all the
deposits of cash-kept by Hoffman. in the banks'; as well as
deyosits and cash'of the joint concern. The game witness
lproved,
.
that before a note for $6000,-drawn by'the defeiidant, and indorsed by John H. Ladd & Co., was discounted by the bayk, he -sent the bill of exchange which
Was the foundation of this action to New York, at the request
of Hoffman ,to be there negotiated. The bill not being
sold imnfiediately in New York, Hoffman went there; and
agsisted -by letters of recommendation from merchants of
Baltimore, he negotiated the bill, and out of the proceeds
of the same-the note foi $6000 was paid at the bank of Alexandria.. Tho proceeds of the discount of this ndte were used
by the firm. The partnership of the defendant and Jacob*
Hoffman was advertised in the public; papers of Alexandria,
the advertisement being subscribed with the names of both
persons ; during the contnuance qf the concern, it was gene-rally known in Alexandria, under the 'style of Roffman
Johnson; accounts were rendered, ana money was paid in that
name, and thefirmwas dissolved on the loth of January 1824.
By he te~r'ns-of the dissolution, Mr Hoffman was bound
.tdpay the debts of the firm, and this bill was drawn to enable him t omply with this contract.
,-The defendant was called upon early in June, and inSrotme.d o*the fate of the bills; and efforts were made without

*JANUJARY T3tRM'i

.

19

[Le Roy, Bayard & Co. vs. Johnson.]

success to procure payment out of property vhich had be.
longed to Hoffman and Johnson, and which was in the hands
Of a trustee.
The questioni submitted -tothe jury, and upon which the
court were requested to charge in favour of the plaintiffs
below, wh'are plaintiffs in error in this court, were:
1. That. upon the *evidence of -partnership, and ihat the
pr~etds'of the hill-were applied to the.payment of the note
which had been discounted for fhe firm ; unless the defendant could-show. a notice of 'lie dissolutiji of -the-partnership, either public or private, before the bill was: sold, and
that the bill was not drafn on. partnership aecount; the.
plaintiffs were entitled to recover.
2. If the jury, from the evidence, should be 'f opinion
that the bill wasidrawn in reference to the business of the
concern, and -to meet the engagements of the same, and the
proceeds of the sariie Were so applied.; then the defepdant
is liable to the-plaintiffs, unless he proves a dissolution-of the
firm and knowledge of the same by the plainjiffs before the
.bill was negotiated.
3. . That if the jury b lieved the name of Jacob Hoffman
was sometimes-used in relation to the business of the 'C-oncern,. and that. the bill was drawh in the name of Jacob
'Hoffman,, and -so -negotiated for the .firm to pay its notes ;
the plahitiff:.is entitled to recover, unless the:'defendant can
prove that the *bill Was not drawn and negotiated on partne.ship accouintj or that-the partne'rship was dissolved and
the plaintiff notified thereof,, or the dissolution was'advertied bofore the bills were drawn and negotiated.
The court having refused these instructions, and a verdict
and judgment having been obtained for the defendant, this
writ of error was prosecuted.
The case was 'argued by Mr- Swann and Mr Key for the
plaintiffs in error, and by Mr Jones for the defendant:
For the plaintiffs; it was contended, that the' bill u'on
whiclh this suit was brought was drawn' by Jacob Hoffman
qn account of himself and the-defendant, to provide for the
payment of a note dis'ounted for the -concern, in the name

SUPREME. COURT.
rLe Roy, Bayard & Co. vs. Johnson.]
used bf them inr.4heir arrangements ofrfinance; and the'prQ-

-

ceeds, of the.'sale of the bill having gone to pay the note,
the defendant was liable to the plaintiffs for the amount of
the bill. and damages.. Jt was in.fact the bill of the firm.
The evidence on the part of the- plaintiffs wag sufficient to
go tothe jury, upon the principles claimed bythe plaintiffs.
Th'e.name, of Jac6b Hoffman was used as that of the firm,
and'ifseyVral persons 'act under- one name, all are bount.
ATlontagu dn Partnership,S2 hote.
While it is admitted that the partnership was not bound
for all the acts done in the name of Jacob Hoffman, here
was a transaction in. .reference to its concerns; and it is
therefore obligatory on all. Gow on Partnership,55, 70,
189.
-The language of the bill is in'the plural, and thus it is
manifest that-it was not an -individual trabsaction of Jacob
It is thus drawn, "Ninety days after sight of our
Hoffmwi
first of exchange, (second, third and fourth of same' tenot
unpaid) pay to the order, &c."
, That tie partnership was dissolved before the bill was
drawn is immaterial. The dissolution was secret, as it was
not known to the plaintiffs 3 and they must be supposed to
have taken the bill upon the not6riety of. the partnership.
The diffieulties which prevented the early- sale of the bill
in New York, may have been removed by information obtained by the plaintiff in Alexafidria,-aind.particulprly of the
form in which the engagements for the money concerns of
the firm were drawn..
The propositions- stated, by the counsel of. the plaintiffs
should have been submitted-to the jury.
The first requested ihqcourt to iay,: whether the facts
.
proved spowed a partnershrp.-.
The second, that .unless-i-otice -f the di k6ution was
brought home to the plaintiffs, "the defendants were. liable.
The third, that there was evidence-diat the parties some'times used the name of Jacob Hoffman; -an&iha.bills.were
drawn' to raise funds for the paftnership,..and therefore the
plaintiffi were entitled to charge the'defendant,- unless the
defepdant could 'prove they were not used for the firm.

• JANUARY TERM 1.29
[Le Roy, Bayard & Vo. vs. Johnson.] •

.The :cQunsel also cited Gowon Part. [55.

2 Bvs7.4 -

Pul. 679..

Mr Jones, kor the defendant. The evidence showed a special partnership, to -buy and sell pork, and all thd transactions of the firm were in the.name of Jacob Hoffman and
George Johnson. If the name of Jacob Hoffrman was used
at the banks, it was not so used as the name of the firm,
but as the name of one individual of the same; each--giving
his own name to raise funds for conducting -the business.
Nor was the bill taken as that of the firm; the plaintiffs°
refused it in the 'firstinstance, and took it afterwards, when
assured of. the respectability of the drawer, individually.
The law.is fully settled, that when it is claimed to make a
personaliable as a .p'artnhr, in a firm carried on in the -name
of one person, it must be shown to be a partnership concern. The defendant is protected bythis principle; for- although the proceeds of the'bill were applied to play the notd
discounted for the benefit of the firm, the payment of that
note..had been assumed by.Jacob Hoffman, and he - ha4,a
right to iaise funds on his own responsibility to discharge it.
To.bind a partnership. the name of the firm is essential.
If it is nQt used, it must be presumed- to be an individual
transaction ; and if the, proc-.eds of the same are. brought
into the concern', it is presuxmed it isdone as an: individual
duty tp the firm.
The books show univ6rsally, the difference between a
manual act of purchaising goods, which may be done by onepartner to'bind all; and the. - bin'ding of all by writing, in
which all.must act, or he who acts must. have authority to
.bind all.- How far the courts have gone in considering that,
.a sepprate debt, which ,is
contracted by one of a firm, is
shown by the following cases. 4 -TermRep. 270. 12 East,
12,. Gow on Part. 32. i.1!tk. 2=2. -1.Marshall'8-Rep.249.
It'is incumbent on -he plaintifis to- prove they dealt with
the firm-or with a view ioihe liability-of'.all the parties to.
it. HereL. George Johnson was unknown to the- plaintiffs;
Jacob Hoffman alqn6. appeared in the transaction, and ljq
drew the bill in -his own name, on his own responsibility, to

SUPREME COURT.
[Le Roy,'Bayard & Co. vs. Johnson.]

obtain the means to carry into effect the terpis of the dissolution of the partnership. .The court in refusing the instructions, therefore, acted in conformity with the law, and
the facts of the case,
Mr Justice
Court.

'WASHINGTON

delivered the opinion of the

The plaintiffs instituted an .action of debt under the statut_ of Virginia, in the circuit court of the district of Columbia, for the county pf Alexandria, against. Jacob Hoffman and the defendant upon a bill of exchange drawn by
the said Hoffman, and dated the 3d of January 1824. The
declaration charges, that the said Jacob Hoffman and George
Johnson were partners in the business of buying, curiag,
and sellitig pork'and bacon, and carried on their said copartnership,business under the name and firm of Jacob
Hoffman, and 'that the bill of exchange on which the'suit is
brought, was drdwn in the name of Jacob .Hoffman,.. for and
on account .df'the said'firm, and was sold to the .plaintiffs,
who caused it to be presented for acceptance; and that the
same was duly protested for non-acceptance and.non-payment; of whicli due notice-was given to the defendants,;the
drawers. 'The writ being returned " no inhabitant," as to
Hoffman, the suit abated against him.
•From the evidence disclosed in a bill of exceptions, taken
by the plaintiffs -to the opinion of' the court, the case appears'to be as follows.
On the 10th of December 1823, Jacob Hoffman and the
defendant e'ntered into'articles of co.partnership under their
respective signatures, to commence and prosecute,'on jointaccount, duti'ng that winter, the business of purchasing, palting up, and smoking pork. The funds necessary to the accomplishment of the objects, intended to be borrowed'from the
banks, or otherwise, ;upon the paper of-,the said- George
Johnson to be indorsed. by Hoffman, or-- in such .other
shape, as respected the 'paper of the parties, as might 'be
,found most suitable to the object. intended; Jqhnson agreeing, in consideration of the extraordinary trouble and expe¢ience ihich Hoffman Wbuld-.devote to the purchase.. and

JANUARY. TERM 1829.
[Le Roy, Bayard & Co. is. Johnson.]

putting up of the pork., to pay two-thirds of the interest
arising, or growing out of the .loan which should be made
for. the business contemplated. -, was. further stipulated,
that the business should be- carried on as far as the parties
should agree, and-could command the funds; and that, the
profits and loss should be equally -divided between then,
No narte or style is agreed Upon under which the business
of the concern was to be transacted; but -evidence was
given, that -after the parties commenced their- operation
under these articles, the books of the concern were'kept,
and the- bills and accounts were made out at their warehduse, where the pork was cured and kept, in the- j6 int
names of Hoffman & Johnson, and never otherwise; '.and
that'they continued to be so kept gnd- made out -untilthe
pork was sold.' They were gezierally known in Alexandria
as partners in buying, uring,. and salting pork, under the
name and style'of Hoffman & Johnson, in which they actedin relation to thb business-of- the concern, .and adver :sed in
.the newspIapers.
It further appears; tbatk-besides the bsinesi-of this concern, aod during'the same period,. Hoffman carried on the
business of'al sugar refiner, of a buyer, salter and seller" of
beef, and of a tobaicconist; and- the defendait tIkat of a'
grocer, and commission merchant, in ihe't6wn of Alexandria.'
Notyvithstanding what has beqn stated as to the Piame by
'which this firm was known in Alexandria, and in which they.
did business at their warehouse, it s~emsthat one particular
branch of business was conducted -solely by, and in. the
name of Hoffman alone.- In December 1823, an account
was.opened in the.-bank of Alexandria, which the cashier
understood from both Roffman and-the defendant,.'wto'
comprehend both. the.cash deposits of the said -concern in
that bank, and the proceeds.of notes therein discounted to
raise money-for the use of the firm. This account was
opened on the 3d of -the 'month just mentioned, into which
a trifling balance against Hoffman upon his private account,
'before kept at that bank,. was transferred. This new accountwas 'so kept that, no 'money could- have been drawn
out of the bank, -pon'that account, except upon the check
VoL. I.-Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Le Roy, Bayard & Co. ci. Johnson.]

of Hoffman, in whose name al~ne all the checks were drawn.
Hoffinan had likewise long standing accounts. in his own
name in two other banks in Alekandria, which were continued in the same .name after this concern was formed; "in
which accounts all cash deposits in those banks respectively;
and the proceeds of notes therein discounted, to raise cash
for the use of the concern, were entered. These latter bank
acc6unts comprehended, -indiscriminately, all, the deposits
and cash kept by Hoffmanin -those banks, as well as the"
deposiis'and cash of the joint concern.
The partnership between these gentlemen, which commenced on the 10th of December 1823, was dissolved by
mutual consent, on the 21st of the succeeding month ; under
an agreement, by'which Hoffman contracted to.pay all the
debts due by the firm, the defendant binding himself to give
the use of his name, either as drawer or indorser, in the
renewal of all notes then existing until the bacon should
be sold. On the 30th of January 1824, -the bill of exchange on
which this suit is ,brought, was drawn by Jacob Hoffman in
his own name, and, as he statee in his deposition, on his
individual responsibility, in orier to- enable him 'to aise
'money to comply with his part of the above contract, and
in particular to enable him to discharge a note for 6000
which -had been drawn by the defendant, indorsed by John
H. Ladd & Co. and, Jacob Hoffman, and discounted at the
bank of Alexandria. With much difficulty, and after great
personal exertions by Hbffman, aid with the aid of a letter
from Mr Colt in favour of his mercantile standing, he succeeded in selling this bill to the plaintiffs,, the proceeds of
-which heimmediately applied to the discharge of the above
note for $6000., In his negotiations with the plaintiffs the
name of the defendant was never mentioned.
As a part of the evidence' here detailed is taken from the
deposition of'the before, mentioned Jacob Hoffman, which
was offered by-the defendant's counsel, it will be proper, in
the first place, to dispose of the objection maje to the com-petency of this evidence.- The offer to read the deposition,
-was preceded by the exhibition of a release executed and

JANUARY TERM -1829.
[Le Roy, Bayari&& Co. ms. Johnson ]

delivered. by the defendant to the witness prior to his exami-

nation. 'It does not appear that any objectiot was, or could
be made to the form of the release; and the ohly question is,
whether, in, point of law, the defendant could by any release
render Hoffman a. competent witness.
It is to,be premised, that the only ground upon which the
objection can be resied, is the supposed interest of the witness in the eveht of the cause, since the suit-having regularly abated as against Hoffian, by the return that he was
-no'ihhabitant, he was no more a party to it than he would
have been, had his name been altogether omitted in the de-claration..
'As to the objection upon the score of interest, it is.
sufficienot-to remark, that it "wasmanifestly hostile to the paity in
whose favour -he tetified, and who offered it in evidence;
'sihee, if'the plaintiffs recovered, against Johnson,-and' obtained satisfaction from him, th-at would be a bar to.their
action against Hoffman, and the release of Johnson protected him against'any action which Johnson might.bring against
" him for. contribution or otherwise.
-The general rule of law, in relation to witnesses who are
interested in the event of the cause, goes no farther. than to
exclude them from giving evidence in favour of that party to
whom their interest inclines them. If they stand, in point
ofinterest, indifferent between the litigating. partiesi-or, if
they testify against their interest, the reason of the rule which
excludes their testimony, no longer existg
We come now to the instructions to the jury, asked for
by the, plaintiffs' counsel, and'which" the. court refused to
give. The first is, that if the jury believe from'the evidence,
that the defendant and Jacob Hoffman entered into'the articlts-9f co-partnership offered -in evidence, and-that an accoint was kept -for the said concern in the bank of Alexandria, inthe name of 4Hoffman, in which the notes-discounted for the use of the partnership, and deposits.of money
on, partnership account, were .entered to the credit, and.
checks drawn for the same in the said Hoffman's name, and
that the said Hoffman drew- the bills mentioned in'
the declarationj and, sent them to New York -to.- be sold, .for the

SUPREME COURT.
[Le Roy, Bayard b Co. vs. Johnson.]

purpose of raising money to pay. certain notes~which hid
been discounted in the bank of Alexandria on partnership
account, some of them drawn by said Hoffman, and indorsedby the defendant or other persons, and others drawn by the
defendant,. and indorsed by Hoffman or others, and that'the
same was s6ld to.thd plaintiffs, and the proceeds thereof
applied by said'Hoffman to the payment of the said notes;
then the plaintiffs 'are. entitled to recover, unless the defendant.can sh'6w. a dissolution of co-partnership, and notice
thereof, either, public, or .to: the plaintiffs, before the bills.
were sold, or that the.said bills -were not drawn on partnership'account, but on the individual responsibility of Hoffman.
The second instruction which the. court was called upon
to give, is substantially the same as the first, except that it
omits a circumstance much relied upon in the argument,
that the .bahk account of the concern was kept in the name
of Hoffman, upon whose checks alone the money was drawn
ot .

The third instruction states, that if the jury should believe
from the evidence, that the: defendant and Hoffman sometimes used, in relation.to.the business of the concern, the
name and style of Jacob Hoffman, as representing the firm.
.and that the bill in question was drawn 'in that name by the
said Hoffman, and negotiated 'for the kurpose of raising
funds to pay notes due by. the said concern ;. then the plaih:
tiffs were entitled to recover, unless the defendant -could
prove that.the said bill was not drawn and negotiated on
partnership account, but on account of the said Hoffman
alone, or that the partnership was dissolved,-and the plaintiffa-notified thereof, or the' dissolution advertised before the
bills were drawn -and negotiated,
,In support of this action, it has been arguect by the counsel for the plailntiffs, that ihe bilU in question was drawn in
the name of the firm under which the partnership concerns
of Jacob Hoffman and George Johnson were.transacted; that
it was drawn on partnership accoint, and that the proceeds
6f the. bills were in fact.applied by Hoffman to the discharge
of a debt due by the concern. These being the facts, it is
'insisted that the court below ought to, have complied- with

:]ANUARPY TERM 1829.
[Le Roy, Bayard & Co. vs. Johnson.]

the prayer of the plaintiffs' counsel; and instructed the jury,
that if they were so understood by -them, the plaintiffs were
entitled to recover. And if this statenent of the facts be
correct, and the instructions asked for had been so framed
as to present them fairly to the jury, this court entertains no
doubt but that such instructions should have been given.
It is well settled,.that if a bill of exchange be drawn, by
one partner in the name of the firm, or if a bill drawn on the
firm by their-usual name and style, be accepted by one of
the partners, all the partners'are bound; It results necessarily from the nature" of the association, and the objects for
which it is constituted, that each partner'should possess the
power to bind the whol6, when*acting in the name by which
the partnership is known, although the consent of the. other'partners to the particular contract should not be obtained,
or should ev6n be withheld. .Were it otherwisd, the affairs"
of the concern could with difficulty becarried on; and -these
persons could's!eldom, if ever, know, when they might safely
deal uponf the credit of the firm. It follows, that such third
persons are notboupd to inquire, much less to assure themselves that the partner with whom they are contracting is
acting on the partnership account, or for his own individual'
advantage. The interest of the partner in the joint stock
of the concern and his consequent authority to use their
name, raises a presumption that the contract was made for
joint account, which is-sufficieni to bind the firm, unless the
contrary be shown ind that the person with whom the partner deals, had notice or reason to believe, ilat the former
was acting on his separate account.
It is now to be seen how these principles of law apply to
the case under consideration
It is quite clear, that the name of this firm is no where
designated in the articles of copartnership which have been'
referred to. The mode in which a prticular branch of theii
-business was to be conducted, cannot reasonably be. construed to give a name. to the firm. It manifestly had' no
allusion to that subject. The stipulation. that the funds necessary 'for. the purposes of the concern should be-raised
upon the paper of Johnson, to be indorsed -by H-offman, or

-

SUPREME COURT.

..[Le Roy, Bayara &o.

es. Johnson.]

ii su6h other'shape as might- be found rnost suitable to the
'object of -the parties, no more designated. Jacob Hoffman,
than it didGeorge Johnson; as the name of'the copartnership. If it did; then the name would be lost or changed, as
often as the parties should agree to raise funds-for the con,
cern in some other mode than the one sPecified. It'is unnecessary to 'de'ide whether the omission -to agree upon a
partnership name in the body of the instrument was, or was
not supplied by the'signatures'of the 'contracting parties to
it, because'it was in full and uncontradicted pro~f,- that'
after the concern went into operation under the articles,
their bo6ks- were kept, and the bills and 'adcunts relating
to their 'business were made *out at 'their warehouse, in the
joint names of Hoffman-& Johhson, by which name the-firm
was generally known: in Alexandria, and-in which they.acted
in relation to the business of the concern, and aaivertised in
the newspapers. Now it cannot be questioned, bit that a
name thus assumed, recognized and publicly used, necame
the legitimate name and style of the firm, not'leis so, than'
if it had been adopted by the arti'cles of copartnership.
Keepingin mind the principles of. law which have been
stated, and the fact or the evidence o 'i t; in relation to the
"nameof this concern, it will'not be difficult to decide the
question; whether the instructions asked for by the plaintiffs
ought,. or ouglht not to have been'given. It is o;bvious that
"the cou'rt was required' by the two first of them, either to
assume'the fact that Jacob . Hoffman & George Johnson
carried,'on their -business, as partners under the name and
firm of Jacob Hoffman,: or to lay, it down as law to the jury,
that it is competent to-one partner to bind the copartnership
by a bill drawn iri' his individual name, even after a'disslition 'of the partnership, if that fact was not advertised or
known to the person taking the bill; provided.the object of
the"partner who draws and negotiates the bill, be to discharge certain debts due'by the concern,-and the proceeds'
are afterwards so applied.
Now the-fact which the courtwas called'upon to assume,
wag all important to be proled to, entitle the plaintijfs to
redover. 'It -is ayerr~d'in the declaration, and is in:'point of

JANUARY TERM -1829..
[Le Roy, Bayaid & Co. vs. Johnson.]

law the foundation of the plaintiffs' demand against the de-fendant Johnson. But what right had the court to assume
a fact which was not warranted by any just interpretation
of the artinles of copartnership, or of any other written in-.
strument which was given in evidence, but which, if it existed at all, was t6 be deduced from the parol evidence, of
which the,jury were alone competent to judge'!
The court was not called.upon to predicate the conclusion of law upon the fact that the- defendant and Hoffman
traded under the name and firm of Jacob Hoffman;. if that
fact should be so f6und by the jury,-and unlesh it was so.
found, it is quite clear that the. bill. in question, although
'drawn for the-purpose before mentioned, and although the
proceeds were so applied, did not bind the defendant, and
consequently, the court was right' in refusing to give theke
instructions in the form in which-they were pro 'onded,unless the fact was that which all. the instructions assilmne,
and which formed the basis of the plaintiffs"argpment before
this court; the plaintiffs contracted in point of, law; as they
manifestly did in fact, with Jacob'Hoffman alone, .and upon
his sole responsibility, and the use*which Hoffman jntended
to make or did make, of the proceeds of the bill,, was quite.
as.unimportant t6 them and to their caise, as it would have'
been, had they coniracted with Hoffman & Johnson. under.
the name of their firm.
As to the necessity of bringing home to the knowledge of'
the plaintiffs,, in one.of the modes stated in the.instructions.
asked for, thedissolution of the co-partnership, in order.to
prevent their recovery against Johnson; we are all of opinion,
that it did notexist ifi.point of law, unless, in point of fact,
the bill was drawn in-the name of.the firm. We admit that
if one of the partners cohtracted in the naime of his .firn
with. a third" person, after the partnership is dissolved, but
that fact not made public or known by such thira person,
.the' law considers the contract as being made with the firm
andi upon their credit, and this for a -reason too obvioust6
require .explanation. But if.the partner deal'with another
in his individualname, and upon his sole responsibility, witliout even -ar, allusion to the partnership, as -the jury would

SUPREME COURT.
LLe Roy, Bayard & Co. vs. Johnsorl.]

have been'well warranted in concludinig the-facts to be in
this' case,-it was unimportant to trat other to know that the.
partnership was dissolved.; since he-was dealing, not with the
firm, and .upon their credit, but with the individual with
whom he was, contracting, and upon his credit.
It only remains to notice the single point of differeqce
between the last, and the two preceding instructions. These
as has before been noticed, assume the fact that the partners
carried on the business of the concern under the name and
style of Jacob Hoffman. That places the plaintiffs' right of
recovery, upon the circumstance, that the defendant and
'FUoffman sometimes used, in relation to the business of the
Concern, the name-and style' of JacQb Hoffman, as repre.senting the firm, in conneti0n with the other facts stated
in 'the preceding instructions.
.But would the court have bden warranted-in'stating to the
j'ury;'what .this instruction manifestly purports; that whatever
may-be the name agreed upon by the partners, and-in which
theygenrally act, in relation to the business of the concern,
still', if they haye 'sometimes,'.sed, in that relation,.the name
and style of one of the partners, bills drawn in that naine,
and negotiafed for thee-purpose stated in the instruction,
wbuld bind-the other partner . We dlearly think not. --The
circumstance relied updn in this instruction; as to what the
partners sometimes did, was no doubt proper to be left to
the jury., as evidence conducing to maintain the averment
in -the declardtion, that- Jacob Hoffman and the defendant
carried on-business as partners in trade under the name of
Jacob Hoffman; if the .court had been called upon to leave
that a a fact to the jury. But -it was nothing more than
evidence of that fact, upon which it would have been highly
oiprp'et in the court t' predicate any principle' cf law
whatever. -,This point we conceive was fully set'led in the
"dse of Townsleyvs. Sumrall. decided a few days ago by,
this court, ante page 170.
We are, upon the wl~ole, of opinion that the court below
was right in refusing.'to give any, of th6 instri.etions prayed
for ; and-that the judgment of that court ought to be affirmed
*ith costs.

