JANUARY TERM 1829.

Y or iaE BAw or"TzE
THE PREsIDENT, DRECTORs, A" ComxP
UNITED STATES, PL'A TnFS IN ERROR VS. TIoT.As CORCORAN,

Notice to the indorser of a promissory note of non.pay!ment by the- drawerC. the indorser of the note, at the time it fell due, lived in a'htu-e in Georgetown, except the lower fr6nt room, which was occupied, separately, as *xstore,
by ohe of his sons. There was a separate entrance.to the dwelling'part of.the.
'house through an alley or passage, apart from the store, which lqd to the upper
rooms, and back buildings, and yard of the house. The soti ofC, who occupied
the store, had a dwelling house separate from the store. C. was at *thattime
poet master of Georgetown, and lfept the post office in another part of the town;
-where be usually transacted his private, business as well as that of his office.
C. had no concern in his son's store, but be was frequently about the door.
Until be took cbhrge of the post office, which was a ydar before the note fell
due, written communications and notices for him were sometimes left it 'he.
store, and were carried by another of his sons, unless when he forgot it, to-hi't.
After. C. took possession of the post office, if not'ices had been feft at the store
for C., the bearer of them would have been directed to take them to the post fTlice; or they would have been delivered to him by his son at the post office, if
recollected, or if they had been seen when left at the store. The.notary stated
that he believed the notice of non-payment of the note was left at the store, because he' thought that he had frequently notices. to give to the cdefindant,
and wis in the habit of leaving them at the store, and he'never had been in the
dwelling house; or in the passage or alley.: Held, that this notice w-s.not sufficient of non-paymeit of the note, to'charge C. with a liability to Day 'the
note.
It"notice of the non-payment of-a note., although left at an improper place, wal
nevertheless, in point of fact,-received in due time by the indorser, and so proyed,
or could from the evidence in the cause be properly presumed by the jury; it is
sufficient in point of law to charge the indorser. [132]
Presumptions from .evidence of the existence of particular facts, are in maqy
casea, if not in all, mixed questions of law and fact. If the evidence be irrelevant to the fact insisted upon, or be such as cannot fairly warrant a jury in presuming it, the court is so far from being bound to instruct them that theS are at
liberty to presume it; that thiey would err in giving such an instruction. [133]

ERROR to the circuit court of-Washington county in the

district of Columbia.
Ia the circuit court,'the plaintiffs, as indorsqrs of the bank
of Columbia, instituted this suit against the defendant, as
indorser of a promissory note, dated "Georgetown, May 6th,
1819,' for $3700, arawn by Danie! Reintzel, and payable at
VOL. II.-Q

SUPREMe 6OURT.
•[Bank of the Unied States vs. Corcoran.]

sity days to the order bf the defendant. The note was
protested, whenat maturity, by order of the bank of Columbia the holders.
The .plaintiffs gave in evidence the -protest of the note,
stating, "that payment thereof had been duly demanded of
.the maker, on the., third. diy of.grace, and 'refused, land
the usual noti e of 'dishbnoqr left next day at the store of
Jar-,es Corcoran,(the son of the defendant) in Georgetown."
Two'written papers werb also put in evidence; one a lette from. Thomas Corcoran the defendant, dated at Georgetown, May 8th, 1822, and addressed to "0. Krutz, cashier,
&c." saying, "Mr .Rind having called on me on the 'subje6t
of Mr Reintzel's notes, I have no hesitation in saying, khat
I will not take any advantage of the limitation act, for my.
indorsement on the note of $3700, dated 6th May 1819,
and- the nbte'of $400, dated 27th May 1819; the other note
I have no knowledge of, and will call at bank to morrow for
".omeexplanation of it."
Also a warrant of attorney in blank, dated December 14th,
1824f authorizing the docketing of suits at the ensuing term
for the use of the bank of the United States, on these notes
of Daniel Reintzel, viz. two of $400 each, and one of $3700,
all due in 1819.
This paper was sent to the defendant for his signature, by
.MrRichard Smith, the cashier of the bank of -the United
States, and the defendant 'addressed to him the following
letter,
"Dear sir ;-If Mr Reintzel should not be able to satisfy
the bank before court, and they determine to bring suit, I
will instruct and authorise Robert Dunlap, esq. to docket
the case for me. December 16th, 1824. Taos. CoRcoxu.u."
Benjamin F. Mackall, the notary who made the proteft,
was examined on the trial, and plroduced his n6tarial book,
in which he recorded all his protests, and in which, he had
entered the protest of the note upon which this suit was
brought. He stated "that the demand -and: notice were
made grid entered in the book, and that although he had no
recollection in relation'to these notes, he believed the demand.
-

JANUARY -TERM 1829.

123.

[Bank of the United States vs. Corcoran.]

and, tie -noticethereof were made as stated in the book;" that
at the time of the demand and notice of the notes, the defendant lived in a house in Gdorgetown, except the lower
front room thereof, which was occupied separAtely, as a
store, by one James Corcoran, the son of the defendant.
There was a separate entrance'to. the dwelling part of the
house, occupied by the defendant, through an alley, or passage.apart from the store, which led to theupper rooms,
apart from the house; and he believes the notice of the note
was left by him at the store, because he thinks he frequently
had notices to give Io the defendant, and was in the habit
of leavirg them at the store, and he never was in tlib dwelling
part of the .house occupied by the defendant, nor in the
passage or alley.
It was also proved that James Corcoran, the son of the
defendant, who occupied the store at the period referred to
by the notary, had a family and a dwelling house apart from
the store. The defendant at the time of the protest of the
note, was post master of Georgetown, and kept the post office in another part of the town; where he transacted his private business, as -well as the l6usiness of his office,- and had
no concern in the stbre. The -defendant was often at the
door, and about the door of the store. Another son of the
defendant's, a single man, was concerned in the store; he
lived w ith the defendant in the house, until some time in
February 1819, when he left his father's family, but continued his connection with the store. It was alse proved by
James Corcoran, that un'til 1818, when the deferidant "took
charge of the-post office, written communications and notices for the defendant were sometimes left at thi store,"or
at the dwelling part of th house; -sometimes the persons
bringing such notices were directed to take them into the
house, *andsometimes he took them at the stor, "tnd then,
unless he 'forgot to do so, as he sometimes did, he delivered,
them to the defendant. After his father took the post office,
if le had known that such communications or notides had
been. left at the store, h& wbuld-have directed the pdiisons
who called -with them iotake them' to -the post office; oi, if
-going there, he would have taken them, aind unless he forgot,

SUPREME 'COURT.
(Bank of the United States es. Corcoran.]

would have delivered them to the defendant; but he had no
recollection of such fact having -occurred. When the defendant took eharge of the post office, that became the place
where notices and communications were usually left; and
where he transacted his business, both private and official, as
post master and magistrate. The witness stated 'that he had
no recollection of a notice'of the protest of the note in suit
having been left at me store.
The store never was, before or after the defendant took
the pot office, his place of business, or the place akppointed
'for.the delivety of notices or other communications for the
defendant.
'The defendant's counsel prayed the. court to instruct the
jury; that if they found, from the evidence, that the said notices were left at the store of the said James Corcoran, occupied by him separately from the dwelling part of the house.
dcctipied 'by the defendant as stated in the evidence; the nol
tice is not sufficient to charge the defendant in this action,
and the jury,' on the said evidence, ought to find for the'.defendant on the first issue ; which instruction the 'court gave.
And the plaintiffs by their counsel prayed the court to instrtlt.the jury, that 'if they found from the evidence, that
notwithstanding the notices were left at the room occupied
as a store by James Corcoran,,yet, that" the said sore was
the 'placewhere notices for the defendant were generally
left, ard that the- notices in the case of these notes, were
duly'rec6"ved by the defendant; then their being so left at
'said 4tore, does, not defeat the plaintiffs' right to recover,
provided the defendant received said n6tices 'in due time.
And that their said papers read in evidence by the plaintiffs,
armd signed and given to the plaintiffs by the- defendant, as
above stated, are competent evidence from which the jury
may. infer that the defendant did duly receive the said notices ; which, ingtructions the court refused to give.
The plaintiffs by their counsel excepted td the instruction
"give'n by the court, upon the prayer of the defendant; and to
the refusal of the. court to instruct the jury as required by
t'hem; and the case was brought up upon the bill of exceptions to this Court.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

125

[Bank of the United States vs. COrcoran.]

The counsel -for the plaintiffs contended that The' cdurt
erred.
"
I. In granting the defendant's prayer.
1. Because the plaintiffs used due diligence.
*2. Because, if' not, it took the whole -case from the jury,
and directed them to find for -the defendant, on the whole
evidence, thus excluding- any inference, they might have
drawn from the evidence, that the defendant duly received
the notice.
If. In refusing the plaintiffs' prayer; because,
1. The papers mentioned in it were competent evidence,
from which the jury might, or not, have inferred that the
notice was duly received by the defendant.'
2. Because, if not,, it took'ftron the jury th" right of inferring from the whoie, evidence, that the- store of James
Corcoran was the place where the defendant's notices were
generally left; and that this- notice was duly received by
him.
The case was 'argued for the plaintiffs by Mr Lear and
Mr Sergeant; and by Mr J6nes for the defendant.
For the plaintiffs in error it-'was argued, that"the declaration -ofthe notary, that "he believed?' be'had left the notice
at the store, was sufficient evidence bf the fact to be left ta.
the jury. The many notarial acts hd. had to perform, rendered a-distinct recollection of each impossible. The suit
,upon this note was delayed for the benefit of the defendant;
and'if the recollectionof the notary is indistinct, it should
not Ovail the defendant. Bank of North America vs. Potter, 4
Dall. 127.' Miller vs. Mackley, 5 Johns. 375.
As to due dilignce, -a general rule has been*established,
and a non-complia'nce with this rule is dlaimed to be negligence. But the rule has exceptions'in some cases, and upon
the same principles *hich are applied in other cases. In
.the case of the Bank of Columbia vs. Lawrence, I Peters,
575, the Court have said that the rule must hot be such as
-will clog commercial qperations.
It is no pait of the contract between the indorser and the
holders, -that he shall give him notice of the drawer's default,

SUPREME COUIrT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Corcoran.]

but the law. has made it necessary. The notice is to inform
the indorser that the holder looks to him for payment; but
it is not indispensable that the notice shall reach him, if reasopable diligence -has been. used to accomplish the object.
If notice was actually received, and so proved, the mode by
-which it came. to the possession of the indorser is unimportant. This i3ourt have said in the case referred to, that a
person may have two places at which notices directed to
him may be left; and in this case the defendant had a dwelling, and an office of business, the post office. The notice
was telat the former, inca store where he frequently *was;
where notices left for him night readh him through his son,
and from which it maybe inferred they did reach him. The
front door of the house was the door of the store, and to that
do'6r all who did not know that the alley had been made the
main entrance would go; and the notary states he has fre,
quently left notices there, without complaint, for the defendant, but he had never been in the alley. If the notice had
been delivered to a servant, the notary going up the alley,
it would have been said that the store was the proper place,
as there notices had been left. The objection is one so nice,
-as to take away.its force or application.
It is not a rule, -that it is indispensable that the'notice
shall be the best the case admits of; for personal notice is.
always the lest, but this is not always required.
The reply of the defendant to the application made to
him in 18.19 by the cashier, is sufficient to authorise the inference that he had notice. Upon this testimony, and the
paiol evidence, the.question of notice should have been left
to the jury. 12 East, 433. 2 Johns. Cases, 331.
The courts of Maissachusetts have decided that'a waiver
of. notice may be inferred from many acts. 4 Mass. 245.
6 Mass. 449. 9 Mlass. 155. 159.
The plaintiffs had a right to submit the evidence to the
jury, and they might have inferred notice; and when the
court assumed to decide upon its insufficiency they invaded
the province of the jury and erred.
-

.

Mr Jones, for the defendant, stated that the question raised

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of the United States vs. Corcorau.]

in this case goes to the whole foundation of commercial law.
Theliability of the indorser of a note is contingent, and it
is essential, as one of tie requisites, to charge him to give
him notice. 'There are-cases in which some of the prerequisites have been dispensed with; but there are certain
acts which are indispensable. 'The rule is universal, that
the notice shall be the best the case admits of; and it ig only
in cases where there are difficulties in giving notice, that
questions have arisen as to the mode in Which it should
have been given. If a party has a place Of business, notice
must be. left there; if he has two, one. or both may be
adopted.
In the case before the Court, there was a'n6torious place
of business, the post office; in which the defendant was post
master, and a dwelling. - Ifi such a case there isno ground
for equivalent notice. It is not preten(,d'that the notary
was ignorant of the facts.
.The claim to support the notice on the ground that it was
left at the store of the Son of the defendant, cannot be main-. tained. The son- was as a stranger would have been, for the
law does not look at those relations. Nor was it of any consequence that the store was .nder the same roof with-the
defendant's dwelling; to all the purposes of this case it was
the same as if it had been-entir'elYr separate.
-Nor does the testimony which alleges that notices were
sometimes left at the store, strengthen the cases, as it is not
shown that the defendant ever recognized such proceedings.
Where notice is not sent in the regular mode, .the law
presumes it would not reach the party and here- the court
were called-upon 'to .tell the jury, that if they believed the
notice reached the defendant, they could infer notice, and
they wererequired to -say-the. notice, was regular. This
refusal was'proper.
The written evidence shows nothing.frorn Which tne jury
could infer notice. When the defendant-' agieed to waive
the statute 'of limitations,' it was, a declaration thathe would.
not waive any other defence. His whole object -in this
arrangement was to beriefit the'drawer, and he' is not t'o be
supposed to fiave inItended to prejudice; his bwn rights.

SUPREME COURT.
[Bank of the United States vs. Corcoran..

Mr Justice WASHIu.TON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case. comes up by writ 'of error -from the circuit
court for the district of Columbia and county of Washington.
The. suit was brought by the plaintiffs in error against
the, defendant, as the, indorser of a promissory note of
Daniel Reintzel for $3700, payable 60 days after date, anddated the 6th of Mai 1819. The only question in the cause
turis upon the sufficiency\ of the notice to the defendant,
the circumstances attending which appear in a bill ot exceptions taken by the plaintiffs to the opinion of the court.
From this it appears, that the plaintiffs gave in evidence a
'letter from the defendant to the cashier of the bank of Columbia, where this note was discounted, bearing date 'the
8th of May 1822; in-which the writer, after mentioning that
he had been applied to on the subject :of Reintzel's notes,
says, " 1have no :hesitation in saying, that I will not take
any advantage of-the limitation aci for my indorsement on
the note of.$3700, dated 6th of May 1819, and the note of
$400, dated 27,th May. 1819; the other note I have no knowledge of, and, will', call at'the bank tomorrow for some explnation of it."
These notes having' beef transferred to the bank of the
United States, the cashier of that bank, on the 14th of Decamber f824,- sent to the defendant a paper for the signature of himself and Reintzel, containing a general authority to some' attorney'to docket suits against them at the
next ensuing.term' of the court, in the names of the presi-'
dent, directors and -company of 'the bank'-of the' United
States, for the use of that bank, and of the United States,
.on three notes of Daniel Reintzel, two of. $400 each, and
one of $3700, all due in 1819. On the back of this note
was indorsed the following address signed by the defendant,
'viz. ' Dear Sir;-7If Mr-Reintzel should not. be able to
satisfy the bank before the court, and they determine to
bring suit, I.will instruct and anthorise Robert Dunlap to
docket the case for me. 'December 16th, 1824."
The plaintiffs proved, by the notary who made the protest ofthis note, who produced at the trial his notarial

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Bank of thie United States vs. Corcoran.]

book, in which he recorded all his protests, and in which
he had entered the protest of the note in question, and the
demand and notice;, that the said demand and notice were.
made and entered in- the said" book, and- that although he
had no recollection in relation to these; yet he believed the
demand and the notice thereof -were madeas stated in his
said book. He ffirther stated, that at the time of the said
demand, and 'notice, the defendant lived .ina house'in,
Georgetown, except: the lower front room thereof, which
was occupied separately as 6Lstore by James Corcoran:, his
son. That there'was a separate entrance to the dwelling
part.of the house, occupied by the defendant, through an
alleyor passage apart from the store, which led. to the
upper rooms and back building and yard of the house; and
that he believed the notice was left by him at the said store,
because he thought that he had frequently notices to give to
the defendant, and was in the habit.of leaving theifi at the
store; and never.was in the dwelling part of the house occupied by the defendant, nor in the passage or alley lead-ing to it.
It was further proved, that James Corciran, who occupied the store at the 'time spoken of, had a family, and a
dwelling-house apart from4 his store; and that the defendant
was 'then post master of Georgetown, and, kept 'the post
office in another part of the 'town, where he commonly.
transacted his private business,,as well as ,that of his office_;
ind had nb concern in his son's.store, .-t that he was oftei
at the door, and about.the door of the store; that Thomas,
another son of the defendaht,.was concerned with his broth'dr
in the -store,, and was an 'active partner, attending .in the
store to the business thereof;, but that he was a'single man,
and lived with the defendant in the 'house aforesaid until
February 1.819; afterwhich he ceased .toliye in his father's
family, but continued his concern and attention in the store.
It was further proved, by the before mentioned JamesCorcoran, that until*the defendant took charge ,oit-the post
office, which was 'in-the year 1818, Written communications
and notices for the defendantwere sometimes left at the before mentioned store, or at the dwelling part of.the housp;VOL. II..-R-

SUPREME COURT.'
[Bank of the United States vs. Corcoran.]

that the witness sometimes directed, the persons bringing
such notices to take them into the house, and sometimes he
took them at the store, and then, unless when he forgot to
do so, as he-sometimes did, he delivered them to the defendant; that-after his father took the post office, the witness, if such notices or communications had been left at his
store in the presence of a witness, would have directed the
bearer of them to take -them to.the post office, or, if he were
going there, would have taken them himself; and that if he
had doie so, he would,unless he forgot it, have deliveied them
to the defendant.; but he had no recollection of any such
fact having occurred. That when the defendant took
charge of the post office, that became the place where his
notices, communications, &c. were usually left, -and where
he trarjacted his business, both private and official, as post
master and magistrate. The witness had no recollection of
ever having seen or known of any notices being left at his
store of the protest of the notes now in suit. That the store
never was, before or after the defen'dant took the post office,
his place of business, or the place appointed for the delivery
of notices or othei communications for the defendant.
After the above evidence, was given, the defendant's
counsel prayed the court to instruct- the jury, that if they
found, from the evidence, that-the said notices were left at
the store bf James Corcoran,, occupied by him separately
from tlie dwellihg part of the house, occupied by the defendant a stated in' the evidence; the. notice was" not sufficient to charge the defendant in this action, and that the
jury, on the said evidence, ought to find for the defendant
on the first issue; which instruction the court gave .....
The plaintiffs then prayed the 'court to instruct the jury,
that if they find from the evidence., that 'notwithstanding the
notices"were left at the room occupiedas a store by James
Cofcoran, yet that the said store was tlie place where notices
for the defendani-.were general ly left, 'and that-the notices
in regard to these notes were duly received by the defendant; then their being so left -at the said store,'does- not
defeat the plaintiffs' right to reoover,, provided the defendant
received the said notices indue time; and that their said

.NUARY

TERM 1829

131

[Bank of the United States vs. Cdrcoran,]

papers read in evidence by the plaintiffs, and signed and
given to them by &f defendant, as above stated; are competent evidence from which the jury may infer that the defendant,did duly receive such notices. This instruction the
court refused to give; to which refusal, as also to the giving
of the instruction, prayed" by the defendant's counsel, the
exception was taken by the counsel for the plaintiffs.
The only question which the case presents is, whether
such notice was given of the non-payment of the note on
which this suit was brought, as the. law requires to charge
an indorser q It.is.notpretended that it was- given to the
defendant personally, either .verbally or in writing, or that a
written.notice was left at his dwelling house or place ofbusiness, or that the holders of the note were-prevented from.
giving the notice at any time by the absence or fault of the
defendant. His place of residence, and the way by which
access to it was to be gaine'd, was known to the notary; and
it is quite improbable that he was ignorant of the place at
which he transacted both his private and public business. The inquiry is then narrowed down to the sufficiency of'.
a notice left at the store of James Corcoran, a son of the
defendant,-with which the defendant-had no concern, and
which was not his place of business.
The store of the son was as distinct and separate from the
'dwelling of .the father, as if they had'bee " undey- different.
roofs; The former was entered from the street, the latter
from. an alley or passage; an'd it does not appear'that thefe
was any inside communication between the two. Overlook-ing for the present, the circumstance that the notary had:
been in-the habit -ofleaving notices for the defendant at the
store,' it must be admitted that the service of the notice in
question at the store, was' no more a compliance with therequisition of law, than- if it had -been delivered to the son
in the street or elsewhere, or left at his uwelling house.,.
Is the case then -ltered by the circumstance- just mentioned. We think not. It seems from the evidence, -that
the store never was, at any period, the place appointed for
the delivery of notices or other communications to the defendant. ' But if it-had been, the note--An" question came to

SUPREME COURT.
[Bant of the United States vs. Corcoran.]

maturity some time in the month of July 1819, and the proof
was, that the defendant took charge of the post office sometime in the year 1818; after which; that became the place
at which notices' and other communications to him were
usually left, and where he transacted.both his private and
public business. Were it to be admitted that the service of
a notice at a place not appointed by the defendant as the
one at which notices to him were to be delivered, would be
,sufficient in'law to charge him, upon the ground that other
notices had been previously left at the same place; it would
surely be too extravagant to contend that a service at the
same place would be legal, after, another .place had been
appointed for that purpose, and where they had in point of
fact been Usually left.
It is unnecessary to pursue this inquiry further; because
although the sufficiency of the service of tie notice gene-rally was-insisted upon by the counsel for the jlaintiff in
error in argument, yet the instruction asked for by the plaintiff in the court below, placed its validity not merely upon
the circumstance that the store was the place where notices
for the defendant 'Were generally left; but upon the additional anid stronger one, that the notice in this case was duly
received by the defendant.
Now it must be adriditted, that if ihe hypothesis that the
notice in this. case, though left at an improper place, was
nevertheless in point of fact received in due time by the defendant, were- proved, or could from the evidence in the
cause be properly presumed by. the jury, it was sufficient in
point-of law to charge him. In the case of Ireland vs. Kip,
10 Johns. 490, 11 Johns. 231, it was decided, that admitting a
service of notice at the house.in Frankfort street, where the
defendant had directed. his letters to be left by the letter carriers, would- have been good and equivalent to service at his
dwelling or .coufiting house; still the notice, though'improperly put into the post -office, would be sufficient; if it were
acoQmpanied by proofithat it had actually been delivere.'at
the dwefling house of the indorser, or at the house in Frankfort street.
But in the present ease, there was not a scintilla of direct

JANUARY TERM 1829.
(Bank of the United States vs. Corcoran.]

or'positive proof that thie notice in question ever reached the
person, the dwelling house, or place of btisiness of the defendant, and thi court was called upon by the plaintiffs'
counsel to instruct- the jury that the papers which they had
given in evidence' were competent evidence from which the
jdry might inter that the defendant did duly receive the said
notice. Was the court wrong in refusing to give this instructionq
Presumptions, from evidence given in a cause.of the existnce of particular facts, are in' -many, if not- in all cases,
.mixed questions-of law and fact. If the evidence be irrele-.
vant to the fact insisted upon; or be such as' cannot fairly
warrant aT jury in presuming'it,the court is so far from being
bound to instruct them, that they are at liberty to.presume
it, that they. would err in giving such instruction. - For why
give it, when it is nianifest, that if the jury should find their
verdict upon the fact, so deduced, it would-be the duty of the
court to set it aside, and to direct are-trial of the cause ."
Let *usn ow see what were the papers, which the plaintiffs
had given in evidenice, which the c6urt were called-upon to
declare to the jury were competent evidence from which
the jury might make the inference-insisted upon.

The first is the letter of the defendant, dated the 8th of
May 1822,'and addressed to the cashier of-the bank of Columbia, in'which he declares that he will not take any ad-vantage of the limitation act,'for his indorsement on this
and anotherrote ; the blank authority sent to the defendant
by. tlfe cashier of the bank of the United States 'on the 14th
of December 1824,,for thb signatures,of the defendant and
of th4 maker- of the notes, 'purporting. to empower some attorney to docket suits against them on. these. nptes,, with a
declaration indorsed thereon by the defendant, that if the
maker of the notes should not be able to 'satisfy the bank
before cburt, -and they should determine,'to bring suit, he
would instruct.a parti-ixlat person to-docket the case for him.
Let it be 'admitted that these 'papers bound the defendant to abstain fiom making a particular defene to.which
the law entitled him, and to cause the action intended tq, be
commenced aigainst him to be docketed, so a not to delay the

SUPREME COURT.'
[Bank of the Unite.d States vs. Corcoran.]

plaintiffs, could the jury from thence infer with any legal'
propriety, either that the necessity of proving notice of the.
non-payment of the notes Would be dis'penaed with) or *the
fact, that the notice left at the store of James Corcoran was
received by the defendant at. any time, much less in due
time?
If this was a question of inference fit to be submitted to
the' discretion of the jury; it seems to the Court that the rules
respecting this subject, which have been laid down with so
much care, would no longer-be fixed and certain, but would
change with the varying conclusions which a jury might
draw of the fact, from evidence however slight given to'prove
it. What, for example, does the rule that notice must in
certain cases be served personally, upop the indorser, or be
left at his dwelling house or place of business,-signify, if a
jury may from any'evidence, lowever-remote from the fact,
presume that the notice, though left at any other place, may
have found its way to the hands of the person whom it was
intended'to charge q

It was insisted by the counsel for the plaintiffs, that the
evidence above noticed, and alone reliedupon in the instzztc'
tion asked for to ivarrant the inference, was strengthened by
the circumstance of the connexion betwebn the defendant
and the owner of the .store where the notices for the former
were sometimes left. But if this' circumstance stood alone
in the case, and a notice delivered to the son who was not
a member of the father's family, would not be.legal notice,
nor compmetent to warrant a presumption that it had reached
the. father, which it unquestionably would not, the question
cannot be affected'by its being thrown in as a make;-weight
with other circumstances in themselves insufficient to justiry
the conclusion.
, In the case of Ireland vs. Kip, the circumstances to induce
-a presumption that the notice ;reached the defendant were
certainly as strong as they could well 'be: The letter carrier-was directed to leave all letters for the defendant at a
certain house in Frankfort street. The carrier called at the
post'office three or four.times every day, ant took ou,, and
delivered all-letters left there; and the defendant usually

JANUARY TERM 1829..
[Bank of the United States vs. Corcoran.]

sentor called every day at that house for his letters.. Upon
the second trial of this cause, the plaintiffs insisted upon the
above evidence, that the jury had a right to presume that
thb notice in question had been duly recedived by the defen
dant. But the chief justibe who tried the cause, instead of
leavingit to the jury to make this; presumption, overruleda
the Whole of the evidenc6 offered by the plaintiffs, and directed a non-suit. When the case came before the supreme.
court, it was there stated -by the judge- who delivered the
opinion, that it would be extremely embarrassing to suffer
the ule to fluctuate, by making exceptions which would
lead to uncertainty, and that it was 6f the. utmost importance in mercantile transactions, to have a certain and stable rule in -relation to notices,--in:'which sentiments this
Court entirely concur. That court finally decided, that; as
it did not appear that -the notice was- left at the defendant's
place of business in Frankfort street, and it did appear that
he resided in the city, the non-suit was correct. If this case
be law, a to which we are not now called upon to give an
opinion, it is in point upon the very question now under
consideration.
If the court below ,theni committed no error in refusing to
give the'. instructions, asked for by the plaintiffs' counsel,
they were right in giying that which was prayed for by
the defendant's counsel, 'which merely*affirmed, that the, notice left-at the store of James Corcoran, occupied by -him
separately frbm the dwelling part of the.house occupied by,
*the defendant; if the facts were so found bythe jury-;were not
sufficient-to charge the defendant,"and that on'the said evi' dence they ought to find for the defendant on the first issue;It is the opinion of this Court, thatthe judgment of the
cQutt-below ought to be affirmed with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United- States for the
district.ofColumbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was-argued by-counsel; on consideration where-,
of, 'it is" considered, ordered, and adjudged by this Court,
that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed With costs.
-

