JANUARY TERCM 1829..

DAvm WunrsoN,

.6-2

PtAnftmw, N ERR
R it ve. THoHAs LnLA.ND AwD.

OTHER,

DEFENDANTS IN. ERROR.

J.3 died -in Ne* Hampshire, seised of real estate in Rhode Island, baving'
delised the same to his daughter, an infant. * His executrix proved the wilLin
'New Hampshire, and obtained a license from a probate court, in that state,
to sell the real estate of the testator for the payment of debts. She sold' the
ieal'estate in Rhode Island for that purpose, and conveyed the same by ileed;
giving a bond td procure aconfirmation of the conveyance by the legislatnre
of RtidQIsland. The proceeds of the sale were appropriated to pay the debts,
of th intestate"I Held,.that the act of the legislatuie of Rhod6 Island, which
bConfirmed'the title of the.'urchasers, was valid. ":
Tita legislative and judicial authority of New Hampshire were bounded by the
territory of thatastate, and- could not be- rightfully exercised to' pass estates
lying in another-state. The sale ofreal estate in Rhode IsJand, by an'executrixi, under a'Jicense granied by' a.court of probate of New Haml hire; was
void; aild a deed executed by her of -the estate was, ptropio vigore, inope-,
-v
rative to pass any title of th&testar to.any lands described therein. [655]
By the laws of Rhode Island, the probate ofa will, in the.proper probite cbuit,
is.undeistood to be..an. indispensable ptelimidiaryto establish, the right of the
devisee; and-hen his title-relates back to the death of the iestator. [655]
That gbvernment can scarcely be deeeied to be freo,-where the rfgbts of.pro"pertyare left solily dependent on the will -ofth6 legislative body,
without any
'rdstraint. 'I'he.fundament-V maxims'of a frie government seem)t6 require ; that
the rights'of persbndl liberty and private property, should -be held sacred.- 'At
least, no cdurt' of justice in this poun'try would be justifiid in assuniing, that
the power to violate or disregard ther, a powerso repugnant to the common
principldgs of.justica'and civil liberty, lurked under any general grant o.f legis*lativi authority,. or oughi to be implied" from -any general expressiong of th&:
will of the people. The people 'ought not tb-be presumed t0 part with rights
so vital t6 their security and Well being, without very strong and' direct ex-pressions of such an intentiop.. 657]
It is admitted that the-title of an heir by'descent in the real estate df.his ancestor,
'and "bf a devisee, of" an estate unconditionally devised to. him, is upon the.
deatb of the party unler'whom hq dlaims .immediately devolved upon him,
and he acqpire$. vested estate. But this, though tre in a genital' dense,
still leaves his title encumbered ith all the liens, which have, been created
ib the party'in'lis life time, or by law at his decease., It isnot an unqualilied, though'it may be a.vested interest, and it confdra no title,except to what
Trpmalns. after every such lien is discharged. 1658] .
By the laws 9YRhod'.oIsland, as well.aso" ail-the New England statis, the real estate ofr intpstirtts stands .mbargeable.'with th payment of their debts pn a
dleficiincy of assits. [658]
A legislative act is.to
be interpreted acording to the intetilon ofthe legislature
Every technical-.rule, as to the tonstrmction'Pr force
- pparent upon its fac.
oL prticular terms, must yield to the clear expression of the laramount ?Pil
ok the. legislature.. [662].

SUPREME COURT.
, [Wilinson vs.Leland and others.]

ERROR to the circuit court of Rhode Island.
This case came before the Court upon a bill of exceptiong
tendered by the plaintiffin error, they having been defendants
below, on the trial of the caase in the circuit court. In that
court the defendants in error instituted an ejectment for the
recovery of a lot of ground called "The Swamp Lot," lying
in North Providence in the state of Rhode Island; which lot of
grounld was,,with other lands, devised by Jonathan Jenckes of
-Winchester in the state of New Hampshire, by his last will
and testament, dated the 17th of January 1787, to his daughter
Cynthia ffenckes; subject to a life estate therein of his sister
Lydia Pitcher, who was thenin possession of the.same, and
socontinued until her death on the- 10th pf August 1794.
Jonathan Jbnekes was also seised of other lands in north
ProVidence and in Smrithfield, Rhode Island; and also of real
6state in New Hampsh.ire and in Vermont,, most of'which
were devised to his.daughter Cynthia. A small part of his
New Hampshire lands was devised for the payment of his
debts. Cynthia Jenckes-his wife, and Arthur Fenner of-Provideice, Rhode Island, were appointed the executors of his
will.. Cynthia Jenckes, alone, qualifiedas executrix. Tie
testator died at Winchester in New Hampshire, on the 3 rst
of January 1787, a few'days after making hiswill.
- No probate of the Will of Jonathan Jfenckes was made in
-the state of Rhode Island.
The,plaintiffs in the ejectment -are the heirs of Cynthia
Jenckes, and- claim the .premises under the devise tohdr, she
having'afterwhrds intermarridd with Joel Hastings.
The title of the plaintiff in error was as.follows:
Cynthia Jenckes the widowe ahd executrix of Jonathan
.Jenekes, having been quadified ih New Hampshire to act as
executrii, on the.18th of August 1790, returned to the probate court of the -county of Cheshire, an inventory of the
real ,,n1 personal. estatie-'i .New Hampshire and Vermont,
amounting to X 1792 12s. 9db. A commission of insolvency was
afterwards granted by the probate .-court, and on the 3d of
January- 1792; the.commissioners reported the whole amount
of debts-due by the estate; otfwhich 6920 19s. were due.to
In.Febrda'y 1792, the executrix
citiens of Rhode Island. ..

JANUARY TERM -1829.
lWilkinson vs. Leland and others.]

settled her- account -in the-probate court, and.a balance..of
th guardiani of the
15 UT.- 7d. remnained in her hands, "heirs app'earing and confsenting'!'to the settlement.
On the 22d'of July,1790, a license to sell the- real _.tate
Qf Jonathan Jenckes, to pay and-discharge the debts of the
estate, was granted by the probate court of Cheshire county;
and on th6 12th day of November. 1791, Cynthia Jenckes, as
executrix of J6nathan-Jenckes, sold and conveyed -by deed
to'Moses-Brown and Oziel Wilkinson, the reversion of the
three acre Swamp lot-, the. premises in dispute. The other
real estate in.Rhode Island was also. sold and conveyed by

time.
her at the same

On the day the sale was made, Cynthia Jenokes executed
a bond to the purchasers,- recitifig that by virtue' of the
'.license, and.in pursutince of its directions, a -sale had been
made of all the estate which 'belonged to the -testator,in the
towns of Providence, Smithfield, and -NofthProvidence; in
the county of Providence, and state of Rhode Igland; and
that she -hadreceived.pay f or ihe sanme; '.andwhe'reas some
doubts may arise whether a sale' and conveyance so- made,
by virtu" of the license of the judge of probate, in the state
of NeW Hampshire,. will give a good and -sufficient title- to
lands and, tefiements lying in the state of Rhode Island, and
rr6idence plantations;. now, .for the clearing of -all doubts
respecting the premises, I, the said Cynthia Jenckes, 'iii my
said capacity, do covenant, and bngage for m'self, my,heirs,
executors hnd administrators, to and with the said.. Moses
Brown, Ozibl Wilkinson and Thom-as. Arnold, their- heirs,
executors and administrators, that Iwill procure -an adt to
-be passed'by.- the legislature of the* state -of 'Rhode- Island,
ratifying and confirming-the title by me granted and conveyed as iforesaid, to them and their heirs and assigns forever; or in failure thereof, tIAt I will repay the purchase
money which I have received for the same, with lawful in-'
-terest, and'such reasonable costs and, damages which they
may or.slall thermby s-astaif, as shall sufficiently inderinify,.
-id- save' them free .from- lo.ss in the premises, to-:all intents
4
and ptirposes.'
At the June- sessions of -the legislature, Cynthia. Jenckes,

SUPREME COURT.
[Wi1kinson vs. Leland and others.]

by her attorney regularly constituted-,:petitioned the legislature of the state of Rhode Island, representing, "that the personalestaie of the said Jonathan'""nekes, being insufficient
to pay his debts, your petitioner obtained authbrity from the
'hon6urable.John Hubbard, judge, of probate'tor the county
of Cheshire, in said 'state of'Neiv -Hampshire,where the said
Jonathan last lived, to make -sale of so much of the 'real
estate of the said.Jonathan Jenckes, as should. be sufficient
"for the purpose of paying his debts; that your petitioner, in
rzrsuance of said authority, sold and bonveyed'a part.of said
ceased's estdte, sitpate in this state.; that for ihe said estate
our petitioner received a part. of the consideration money,..
and the. residue thereof isto-be paid when the deed executed
by your petitioner .shall be:' atified by"this assembly; yotir
petitioner would further show, that the' residue of the said
niol '.se money is absplutely necessary to pay the debts due
from said estate, ind'which are now running in interest. She.
therefore humbly prays', your honours will-be pleased to ratify and confirm th6 sale aforesaid, being by a deed nitde by
your petitioner unto Moses Brown and others, on- the 12th
day of November; A. D. "1791;'for the consideration of five'
hundred .and fifty dollars; whereby your petitioner conveyed
the right, of redemption to a certain mortgaged estate, and
also other landg in,said deedmentioned, sittiate in Smithfield
and North. Providence."
Whereupon the legislature -passed tihe.onowing act:
Statle of Rhode Island, se.
At Juhe session of the Gbn'6ral Assembly, A.,D. 1792'.
Whereas, Cynthia Jehckes, late of Winchester, in the state
Hampshire, now of'the state of 'Vermont, executrix
of
of New
the last will and' testament of Jonathan Jenekes, lateof
Winchester aforesaid, deceased, 'preferred a petition. aid repfesented unto this assembly, that his personal, estate being
insufficient for the payment of his debts, she'pbtairied autho-.
rity fror~the, honourable John Hubbard, esq., the judge -of
.probate for the: county of Cheshire,'in the state'of New
Hanipshire aforesaid, where-the said Jonathan last lived, to
make sale "ftso much-of the real estate of the said Jonathan Jenckes, as shoull' be sufficient to pay'his debts; that

JANUARY TERM -1829.

631.

LWilkinson vs. L'land ana others;]

by virtue of said authority she made sale to Moses Brown
iand others, of phirt of the said rd'al estate, situate withiii this
%state; that she hath rbceived part of the co.nsideratiofi" mo4
ney, and the remainder is to -be paid when the sale aforesaid
shall be ratified by this assembly; and that the residue of
.1aid purchase. money is necessAry for the payment- of said
debts; and tbereupon,.tho said Cynthia prayed, thi- assembly
to ratify and confirm the sale aforesaid, ivhich.was made by
a deed executed by her on "th-.12thi day of November last
past, for the. consideration of five hundred and fifty dollars,
whereby shQ conveyed the right of -redemption'to a certain
mortgaged eftate, and also other lands ifi the said deed men
tioned, situate-in Smithfield and North Provid.ence.,
On due. consideration -wh..reof, it is enacted by.this general assetnbly, and. by the authoritythereof, that the prayerof
the said p6titioner be granted, andthat the said de~d be, and
tie samle is hereby, ratified and confirmed, so far as-respe~ts
the conveyance of a'y right or inferest in the estate men.tioned in said deed, which belonged to the said Jonathan
Jbnckes at the time of his decease.
A judgment'pro forma, for the plaintiffs, was entered in the'
circuit court, and this writ of error was sued outh
The case was argued .by Mr Whipple, and Mr Wirt, for
the plaintiff in error ;.'and by Mr Webster, wii whom Was
'Mr Hubbard, for the deferidants..
-

-Mr Whipple, for the plaintiffs in errior, aftpr stating the
facts 'of the case,.proceeded to say, that the-whole case before the Court, turns upon the constitutional validity of the
act of the leg-islature of Rhode Island.
. All the lands of Jonathan Jenckes, in .the state of New
Hampshire, Were sold for thQ payment, of debt§. ' A: large
amount of debt was due in.Rhode Island; and it is admitted
that the pioceeds of the sale of the swamp lot were applied
to the payment ofthe debts of the testator. . It is als.6-adinitted that all the personal estate had been absdrbed by the
.payment'of debts in New Hampshire. The .qustion arising
from these facts of the case, is, whether a deed of land in
Rhode Island, made by a New Hampshire eieeutor, qualified

SUPREME CQURT..
[Wilkinson bs. Leland'and others.]

in-Niw Haffiipshire, and not'ih Rhode Island, the soile being
fairly niide for the. payment 'of, debt , and -the. deed "being"
gubse'iuently ratified. and .confiined. by the legislature of,
Rhode "Island,'constitu'tes a valid 6oriveyance.. Itis confended that itdoes: and it-is.-at the same tihre6conceded,
that sue.a deed withot.t.stkeih cohfirmation, is libsolutely void,
This-view of the case presents n6cessifily the question of
the power -f thelegislatire.o-it ass thfe law.
TQother limit to the power-of the legislature of Rhode
Islamnais'Rnown, .thai that which is*marked 6uit b- the co'i,-"
stitution .of the United Stites. If-.any clause in that instrument is ex'pr~ssly oivirtnally infrn~edibj'the confiiatory ae't
nullity. The
of1792, such a vio1jton wo.uld'rendei th~eact 'a
'nDtional constitution being the only limw.tation, the Court -haa
no right to proaounce •a law of Rhod'eIsland void, upon any
Other grqund. It has-been dtd inz-England, that ari aet Of
RtbdiarogAt, contrary, to fhe princzples of natural justice,
wou-14 be void. Such.an opinion, in reere.nce to k law of a
.state, has never been-intimated .in
tfis Court.
SBut, suppose thep.eo. to ike au .exptegs grant, authorising, the le'Ialature to' Ippoint a mai. a-judge in ,his own
case; or to pais any'hliw contrary to n6 uia justice. so long
as none of the prohibitins-6f' the constitutfioh are'violated,
what.'ight ha this Court to interfere '.
What was done inthe c'ase before the Court, Was-.with ihe:
full knowledge, concurrence,-and assent ofthe' p. opl of
'Rhode Island. .Acti'authorising fqreign executors W sell
real estate, and dets confiriniig vpid deeds, have-been passed
*ee since the settleieiitof the state, .Having. no written
constitutlon;.asage is .thelaiw of RhodeIsland, The.papeis
in. the case clearly sh6w that the legislature of that itate al'ways has exercised sufkeme legiaatii'e,exectlttve, and judi-"
cio1 .ower(a). Thlre is an execiutiv9 magistrat6, but.he is
(a) In'the cpurse of the argument of.the case, thbe*ounsel of .the'plaintiff in
errbT,cited from the sthtutes of the state of Rhode- Islapd, a number of laws.passed by thi iegislatur6 of ihe state in' wbich the powe'rs asserted 10 bd vested ip
that body were exericised.
after
a ew
"August173. Ranclall vs. Robinson, A petitiop frr a neir trial,
trial bad jbeengiven:by the court. Grn.ted.

JANUARIY TERM 1829.

633

[Wilkinson vs. Leland-and others.]

totally destitute of executive power. He cannot pardon the
slightest offence; he has no veto on It slation; and he canRoss vs. Stow. Petition for a new trial after two verdicts had passed ag'aint
the petitioner, and to remove the cause into another county. Granted.
August 1774. Petition 6f Augustus Mumford for leave to amend a judgment lie
recovered .against Simon Hazard, from twenty-frur to seventy-four dollars.
Granted.
Petition from John Randall, stating that he bad again obtained a verdict asdlst
Matthew Robinson for thirty-five pounds, which the supreme court, on motion
of Robinson, had setaside, and praying that the judgment be set aside, ati "the
verdict remain fair as at first received, and that. the next superior court may be
eiipowered to enter up judgment thereon in his favour. for his damages ana costs
by the said last jury found." Granted.
Petition of George Elain, stating that a final decree of the king in council bad
been obtained by him against John Dorkray, and praying that the supreme court
be ordered to darry the same into effect. Granted.
March 1776. Petition of Benoni Pearce, administtator,.to sell real elatB to
pay debts. Granted.
June 1776. Petition of Mary Mason to appoint some person to sell the estate
of orphans, one of them having gone to sea two years ago, and notsince heard
of. Granted.
December 1776. Petition stating that judgment had been outaixied against the
petitioner for more iliat the debt due. Granted, and the judgniert declared null
and void, and the Court directed to chancerize the bond.
March 1777. Petition of Caleb Fuller, stating that he and Shore Fuller of
Rehoboth, Massachusetts, are joint owners of a ferry, and that Fuller refuses- to
use it by turns, the one during one week, and the other the next; and praying
"1the assembly to grant that he shall improve said ferry with said Fuller in turns,'
exchanging every other week, and that his turn may begin the first day of next
week, as has been customaiy for a number ofyears heretofore, &c. Granted.
Petition. of Samuel Brown, administrator, stating that the intestate covenanted
to give a deed to Nathan Crary of the stata of Connecticut, of a house and lot,
butsdied before executing it; that the estate of the intestate is insolvent, and
prays to be authorized to give the deed to Crarv, in pursuance of said covenant.
Granted.
February 1778. Petition of Benoni Pearce praying to be'released from his
executorship, on paying the balance in his hands to the town council of Providqncq. Granted.
Abgust 1779. -Petition of Othniel Goston, stating that administration. had been
granted upon his daughter's estate, and that the administrators had brought actions against him; and praying that the administration might be set aside. Gralnted, and that the tow'n council be directed to revqke the'same, and to grant administration to the petitioner.
1781. Petition of Sylvester Gardner, deputy qtrtermaster, 9tating -that he,
by order of his superior officer, seized a quantity ofstQck anai sold it for the benefit of the United States ; that he is sued for taking saiifstock, and prays that the
action may be stopped. Granted.
Petition of Martha Hartshorne, stating that her husband devised certain real

Vor,, 11.--4 E

634.

SUJPREME COURT,
(Wilkinson vs Leland and others.]

not appoint i single officer in the" state ;- all, the execu'tive
powers are exercised by the legislature.So of its.judicial powers. We have courts acting under
standing laws.; but one of those standing laws authorizes the
legislature upon a-petition for a'new trial to set aside judg-merits at its -pleasure. Originally. the legislature was the
drily court in ihe state. It exercised common law, chancery,
probate, and
iddmiralty jurisdiction. .Its-.hancery jurisdiction
it has never parted with. It is the best court of chancery
rntiie world. Its probate power, thQugh conferred upon in-ferior courts, ha always been =exercised concurrently with
them. Accordingly, we find frequent instances of wills
proved, and administ.ation'granted, b*'the legislatureThepower of grantinglicense t6 sell real estate, -ofproving wills and of confiiming void'deeds, has been so-long and
sa-feeutly-xerclsed, that it- has been known by-almost
every man inthe state. Te people,'knowing this usage, have
acted under if, and there ig hardly anacre. of land in Rhode
* 'Island which, in some period or other,,hasi not ,been sold by
*executors, administratorsorguardians licensed by the general
assembly; or conveyed by void deeds, confirmed by that body.
To draw into 'question the validity of such conveyances,
would shake.almnostevery title ihl the state. estate to her for life, remainderto his son in fee;.p'raying tha se may sell'pt
ofte estate for ler support. Granted.
1782. Petition of Archibald Young and others, pra ing that part of the real
estate of a non compos, may be given id fee to such person swill give b6nd to
supporther; remainder tobe divided among the heirs in fee provided they give
bond to'restore itin case she is restored to her .mind. 'Granted; and the superior
court nrdf.ed to carry-the prayer of the petition into equitable execution:
. 1783. Petition of Z. Hopkins, statifig thathe was treasurer of Gloucester, was'
sued upon notes given by him officially, and judgment has beqn recovered against'
him, and, Oraying that execution may be issued against the present treasurer.
Granted.
1783. Petition ofr William Haven, prayihg that a decree of the adinirity
court maybe set aside.and a trial allowed. Granted..
,1784. On petition, a deed of gift from Gideon Sissor-to-his infant children was
declared void and fraudulent, and the estate. Was restored ta him.
176..Stephen and Dafftel Stanton were appoihted-guardians of their father,
and allowed to selt-his -dal estate to'pay debts, &c.
1791. Petition of-Mary Dennison of Stonington, Connecticut, executrix, for
the sale of real estate in- S-outh Kingston to pay debts, and to account with the
.Judge of probite in Connedticut. Granted.

JANUARY TERM 1829.. -

S635

[Wilkinson vs. Leland and othbers.]

Resort however to the extraordinary powers;of 'the Rhode
Island legislature to protect the present conveyance, is.unnecessary. Every legislature in the- union possesses.similar
authority,-unless expressly restrained by its'local constitution. The. .subject Matter of the conveyance was land-lying
within the state; and, consequently, exolusively within the
jurisdiction of the state'. How the land shall pass from one
man to another, whether by deed under seal, or by, mere- delivery; how- itshall be appropriated to the- payment of dehts
whether by attachment and sale, or by mesnie or final process;' or whether it sh'all be totally exempted fiom attachment; what form shall be Observed by executors andiadministrators, selling for the payment of debts*; how they shall
be qualified, .and from who'm they .shtill obtain a licedse;
whether,. the'deed shall precede the license, or the lidense
precede the'deed; are zill .questions'to be decided byf'he-lbgislature: and their decisi6n is conclusive upon all mankind.
Whether they decide by.a general law or, a special act. is
matter exclusively of legislative discretion.
It is .however "considered .unneces.ary to attempt to as-certain the*extreme -limits of state. power in regard to its
domain. .dll the power-over that subject, whatever may be
its measure; is in the states, A very -small portion of it was
exercised in the present -case. The principles of natural
justice were not violated, unless it is unjust to appropriate
the property of a debtor to the pa.yment of his debts. No.
-vested rights were distdrbed, bedame Cynthia Jenckes, the
devisee.took the estate $ubject to the debts of the testator.
The.general law of'.Rhode- Island ftirnished tKe creditors
with various direct remedies against the estate itself. .It
was
liable in an action*against .the devise to have been attached
on an original. wtit and sold upon execution. A creditor
might have taken admigistration, and petitioned the suprefne
court fora-license to sell. The right of the devisee, therefore,
was-subjec.t to such remedies as had been previously-provided by the general law, and eViso. to such. remedies as the legislature. chose subsequ6.ntly to.'provide. The application
of the general or the .special remedy, would alter but not
impair the rights of the parties. Previous to the sales the

636

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilkinson vs. Lelandand' others.]

right of the creditor was to obtain payment either from the
devisee or the esate'. The-rigbt of the d6visee was to hold
the, esta'te subject to this elder right dfthe creditor. f It was
ither election to discharge the ddbts voluntarily, and remove
the incumbrance, from the-estate; or to alow the creditor
-to proceed uider the best, remedy -he cofildL obtain. The
deed of the execufri- and the act of the" legislature, constituted a cheap and -summary-remedy idr 'the enforcement of
the rights of.the .creditor, .f the estate had not come to the
hands of the devisee loaded with the:,liei of'the creditors,
-it
might have been-difficult to have eonsiddred the, act as
mbrely'remedial; for it would have- bestoiedtnew rights upoi
the, creditor and heaped new.*4bligltions.u2nbn thedvisee.
Three prgpositions then may sofelyj bbeadviriced- in relation to this act. I. That- no injutiie was -done. 2-; That
vested rights were not disturbed. Aad 3'. That the obligation of contracts was notimpaired.
The power of the legislatuie *to furnish remedies in favour.
of existing rights, %a*exercised to-a muci greater extent in
thd.caes of Calder vs. Bull, 3 DalU 386 ; Underwood vs.
Lilly,"i0"Serg,& Rawd,'97 and Foster vs. The-Essex tank,
. 16 .1fass. Rep. 245, than in; the 'case before the Court.
It may be urged, that no notice ivas given to the devisee;
-tbAt ier title was divested by the void deed of, an niauthorized executrix, ronfirmied by an act to-which she was iiot a
party, aifd the existefice'of which she Vias ignorafit of dihtil
her -estatewas taken from her.
f: notice was necessary, it, m"ay safely be presumed, at th
end' of thirty-six years.. 15 ,Mlass. Rep. 26. But notice
was. not nzecessary. It was not an. adversary proceeding.
Ifthe creditors had petitioned for a •remedy against thbe
estate, conimon justice would have required 'notice 'to -the
.dovisee. But the petition was by the leal representativeof
the estate; the legal representative, in Rhode Island as well
as in New Hampshire. The p 6 wer of an' administrator is
confined to the state for which he is appointed. He is not the
represelitative of. the intestaie 'ih 'iay other-tat,. But thepower.of an executor'is coextensive with the-estate of the
testator. -He deiives his power froth the will., and he has

JANUARY TERM 1899.

37

[Wilkinson vs."Leland and others.)

an exclusive xight to administer wherever any estate, nAy be
found. The moment the ,tstator died, the power of-hiis exe-..
.cutrix'over his estate in Rhode- Island was' precisely-the
same as over his estate in Neq Hampshire. It w" com.plete in both states, except as to the. bringing act6.* and
the sale. of-real estate. She could bring no action in .either,
..until she qualified by giving bond. She could not sell-real
•.estate in.either, until she had obtained .a license.. In all
o.ther respects he'r power.was the same in 'both states.-" The
will gave her "the exltzsive right' t& administer in- bothstates. ".She had a'. rig/t io .apFdy for a probate ,of the will;
-and --for. license to sell..iri both..sta tes.' The' will war, the
'power. The " executrix was the attorney; and every, at
wvhich the power aifthorize.d her to do, she could. rightf'ully
perform without notice. *There is no- difference, in this
respect,-between 'a willapd'any other power. The .executrix in petitioning'thbe legislature-bfRfiode" Island for power
to sell, was-actjing as:the rel'resentative dfJonathanJenckes,
was taking, a 'stdp.she had a right totake-without consqlting
heirs.- 6r -devisees," agd -wiihout- giving' therh notice. - The.
gefi.eral law- of Rhode Island authorized ,an execiat6r- to- pe-.
tition the supretme dourt ',br a Ui ense, twithout .giieing
hotice. "Why should she 'givenbtrce when she petitioned.
the legislature .
:There, is a 'wide diffetence'bet-ween the right- to sel,:and.
the. right to apply for q, license to sell. The former:is, derived* from the decree of a court -or legislative act. 'The
latter is from the will itself. These positions are fully'stistained in Toller on Wills; 41.'.65, 66. 70; Lord Raym. 361;
Strmige's"Rp.- 672'; -1 Dane's .lbridg. 558; B-Vrnleyrvs.
Duke, 1.Rand.'1O8.;. Jackson vs. Jeffries, 1 Marshall,'88";"
and Rulluff's case," I' Mass. '240; "Rice vs.: Parkman, 16
mass. 4326.
%It must ba-adniitted then, that as this act.of the legidlature
impaired no contracts, and interfered'ivith no vested rights,'
that they h.ad the constitutional power to pass it. It must
also b6 admitted that the executrix had a right to appl, for
a license to sell,.wherevefreal estate could b& found, until
the-delbts were paid;- and that.there was'no more necessity

638

SUPREME COURT,[Wilkinson vi;-L eland and others.]

of giying"the.heiis, notice of such an .application in Rhode
Island, than there would, have been upon a similar application in New Hamnpshire...
The-case§ in 3.'Dallas,386, 12. Wheaton's .Rep. 378,. 9
?,!Tas. Rep. 15.1.360, 4 Crnn, Rep. 209, and 16 ,Mass.Rep..
260, also show, that it is no objection to th6 act'that it ii retrospectve and private,
These- onstitute all the objedtiong that are aticipated
againist the legal validity of.the .act. The principal if not
the only-bbjeetion that .will be mucb relied upon, relates to

its legal effect rather than totihe power, of the. legislatire'to"
pas it.

Ti'he.grounds that-will be.nainly contended for, it is supposedwill b6 these; that admitting.that the legislature had
sufficient power.to ,have authorized the executrix to makea
fu 're sale, yet instead of this, they'urldertook to confirm a
previous sale; .that they passed an ct"iih June 1792 confirms
ing avoid deed made in November 1191. As the executrix
in Novefiber1791 acted 'under, the ,license ,of the court 6f
probate in :Nw Hampshir, and had obtained no authority
to.iell from'any'court in liode Island, it is very clear that
the deed, without"sueh aihority, was a mere nullity. The
.ond entered into by the parties, providing that unless the*
executrix obtained .a. ratification of the'sale by the legisla-ture, is satisfactory evidence tlhat the parties coisidered the
dee'd of no validity..
The act of the :legislature then confirms a .vid deedr and
the old principle of the, common law, that a deed of. confirmation will not, validate a previous void deed, will be relied upon; In. Co. Litt. 295, b. it.is said "a-confirmation
doth not. strengthefi a void estate, for i confirmation Eaay
make a voidable or defeasible estate good, bnt, it cannot
work upon an estate. that is void in, law2' -This is the uni-.
form language. of the an~iezit books, and the *reason"of_ the
principle is. found- in Gillbert's Tenures,. 75. 78. " A confirmation passes.n6 new eatate to the grantee-: it is the assentof the corifirmer,. that-the .grantee inay hold the estate previously .granted.'
This being the rule between parties to conveyances, it is.

JANUARY TERM 1829,

639

[Wilkinson vs..Leland and otbers.]

supposed that 4 confirmation by the l egislatire , is tp be construed bythe same rule. Cynthia Jenckes',the eiecutrix, in
November .1V91, made a deed of all the right, title and interest of'Jonathan Jenckes fhe testator ifi the demandd pre:nzises.' Hxying obtained no- previous ljcense,-the deed was.,
'voi.,
The argument is that.a d~ed of clOfirmation by Cynthi' enckes the devisee, would have been of no force, and.
that therefore a confirmation by the legislature was equally
void.
-Two answers may be given to this vyry' plausibie reasoning... 1. We dfrny .thai a confirmaton" by the devisee of
the void dded of the eiecutrix' ivould-have been-invy'alid; and
-if it would, v.e deny, 2. Tht it necessijldy foltolws thai a
confirmation by the legislature, is of the same 'character.
Would. a- confirmation by the devisee have be'en binding!
It is. adwitted that in geheral a confirmation of a.void deed'
is.inoperative.' An examination 6f the reagbno-of the rule,
"h'owever,'willsh'ow its inapplicability to'this case.- 'It. appl.ies to a deed void for want of estate in lhe first gnriaor. As
for instance, A. is the.owher'in fee-ofa ,16of
land.. B. having no title, makes a..ded io C. which is -a-mete nullity,
AfterwardA A. confirms to C. tie leed'of B. What does this.
arnobnt'to. -.Wby, in the' languig Of',th6 books: "'tQ the
ass6nt of-the confirmeri that C..niy hold the estate conveyed
bjr B:" What .
that e8iat'el . The title of B. If Cynthia,
the m~jlier, had conveyed to'-Brown. and Wilkinson her itle
to the land of J6nathan Jenck-es, a ,confirmation of-o.uch a.
deed, uponi strict principles, would have- been- inoperative.
But she acted as executrix; 66 conveyed noi her :own, but
the title of.'Jiatn Jenckes.. A' onfirmationi by the devisee, would have been an .assent thgt. the gtantee should
hold "the estate".cQnveyedby the deed; Whose estate q
Why the estate df the grantor.. Whq was the grantor?.
lonathan Jenckes, byhis"agent- Cynthia Jenckes. A confirmation of 'deed, is a "confirmation bf the tite professed
t6 be'confeyed by that deed. Had Cynthia Jenckes conveyed her title, a confirmation- would have established her.
title.' -As she conveyed'the title ,of Joiathan .hn'ckes, it

640 '

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilkinson vs. Leland land others.]

established his title in the grantee. The, deed of the executrix was void for want of authority, not for want ofestate;
and a subsequent confirmation of a void authority is equivalent to a previous grant.
It is therefore denied that a confirmation by the.devisee,
of such a deed, would have been inoperative. But suppose
it would; does the consequence drawn from that position

necessarily follow, that a confirmAtion by the legislature
must sharb. the same fate 1 Is an act of the legislature to
be conrtrued by technical 'ules .of'conveyances, or by its
'main scope and design.q What was the sole object of ap"plying to the legislature T The ans%,er'must be, to authorize
the exe~utrjx td conve'y the title of J1nathan. Jeiickes to the
grantee. The lqfigu'age ofthe petition and the act are very
pointed to this effect.
The whole doctrine of confirmation, however, is,applicable.
ofily to deeds which• contain. no. other than technical words
*of. confirmation. Whenever.an intention is manifested to

'nlarge.the este of the rante.e, such- intention shhlf..p~eCoea. Litt. 296, a.,
Without any-further refining upon obsolete rules howevero-

vail.

it is einough -for oar purposei, that even in England. none of
:these rules ever applied to a.confirmation by act of parlia-

ment.
" One other view may be taken of the case, which
.will relieve itof, all objections arising 'from its retrospective and
confirmatory character.
This view is to consider the deed, tie bond, and-the act
of tle legislature,as- one convegance,.having a r..esentopeTatiQon. The parties knew .thai.,tle deed was vbid;, they
knew that no title passed to the grantee.. How, then c uld
they.intend that it should. operate, until aftei the act vyas,
obtained q. It 'wouild -be.idle to contend that the parties
meant a deed to.operate, which they themselves declare to
be inogerative iud. 'oid. the deed was executed'ind'delivered in November 1791, but thb deed was nly .apart of
the coneydnce. The act of .thelegislature 'was conremplated
as aripther esse'ntial pai't; and when the act was obtained,

JANUARP

TERM 1829.

-641

i:Wikinson vs. Leland and others.]
it was in its legol effect a license to sell the estate,.and the
deed was given subsequent to, and under the license. The
authorities fully sustain this.position.
tid execution of a power, in order that the defici.ency of an ipstrumeat may be 9upplied by the-sufficiency of
another, itfiaust appear that the parties intended theyshould
operate "conjointly.", 3 East's Rep. "410. 43S; Earl of-Leicester's-,case, I Ventrii, 278; _Herring vs. Brown,- Carthew,
.",In

22; -,,Mass.Rep;.138; .1John. Ch. Rep.. 240.

If, however,.there, had been- originally an incurabte defedt
in this conveyance, an acquiesceice ofthirt , six years estops
the parties -fron: now making iheir' claim."Yet even heirsandcreditots are.- c6noluded after along
acqu*iqscefice; -and-a legal- pre'sumptiori of the regular exer'cise of authority is accepted instead'of proof.'? 15 Mass.

Mr Webster, for the'defendant iwerro'r."
The history -of the- case is; that there7 lived a' man of the
name of Jenokes, who had acquired reM estate in Rhode
Island; he made his will in 1774, in .which he devised his
estate to -his daughter Lydia[ for. lifej and the reversion to
tis son Jonathan 'Jenckes.' Lydia-survived-J6nathan Jenckes,
who,'.eight, yeafs after.-the deaih of his father, inade his
will, and gave the -xeversion of the estate to his daughter
Cynthia.. enckes., A&t t&is time'Jonathan Jenckes lived at
Winchester in New Hampshire, where he dieA in 1787. He
appointed his wife, whose name was Cynthia, the executrix
of'his. will,-with'another person who never acted.
The Will prqvided for the payment of debts;.and if there
was a deficiency in-the personal estate, that specific por-.
tions of the. real-estate should be - sold for the purpose.
.Unhappily the executrix entrusted, a person who was employed by .her, and who- took upon himself' to. do every
thing, He acted as agent, commissioner, and purchaser.
'He also got -an agieement for her'dower, and sent her to
Vermont,
she died. It also happened that a large
estate, at where
"that time. turned out to leave but-'£15
is. 6d.
VOL. 1[.-4 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilkins'on'vs. Lgland and others.]

The minors .came of age; by good conduct they raised
themelves from penury, and have brought their case before
this Court.
There is no dispute down to the will.of the elder Jonathan Jenckes, or of his son. The plaintiffs below claim under
the will.., The will was proved and admitted, and the question is,. whether the plaintiffs in error are, entitled to hold
the-property. -F_1rst, it was pleaded, that the plaintiffs below were barred by the statute of limitations, but 'this has
been overruled. They had a title by devise and inheritance,
derived a title from
-and the question is, whether any one-ha6
it away..
their ancestor which can take
IThe question turns only on 'the validity of the. title of the
plaintiffs in error; who say they are purL"'asers under Moses
Brown and Oziel Wilkinson.' That the lat. ' in controversy
went out of the family; Jonathan Jenckes, the ancestor,
having, died leaving debts. and the .executrix having made
sale of the linds for their payment.
the will of Jonathan' lenckes was proved in New Hampshire in 1787: the debts there were all paid.
The defendants if.htJe circuit.court produce a deed from
Cynthia.Jenckes to Moses Brown and Oziel Wilkinson, of
November 12,'1791, and a confirmation by the assembly of
Rhode-. Island. What is the characier,.and what are the.
powerg of the legislature of Rhode Island, will be examined
in the course of the' argument. The deed purports.to proceed by the authority of a license, grantdd by the, judge of
probate of New Hampshire.. It is not material now to show
tiat all the proceedings in New Hampshire were void; they
,were all contrary to the law of the state. If the land laid
-there, the deed would bo declared -void,
One- view is, to be taken of this' question, which is not to.
be .lost sight 9f. -The laws of -the New England states
make.lafids subject to debts. What is the nature of this
liability 1, Where'is thb"title of the land, until it shall -be
known that it will be wanted for the. payment of debts '. It
isin the heir or the devisee, and the personal representative
has i othing but -apower to sell it for. the payment of debts.

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Wilkinson vi.Leland and others.].

Ire has a power iosell only on t'he arrival of certain events;
and he who is to exercise that power, must show that-those
events have arisen.
This p6wer does not exist until the event happens to
make it necessary to sell the land..
Every. principle of law requires that when this power-is
exercised, it shall be'proved that the case exists to require
its employment.
The cases decided- ip the coftrts 9 f Massachusetts upon
the statute of that state, which. is like the statute of New
Hampshire, show,*th~tt the: party claiming under a deed for
lands.sold for the payment of debts, must show that the
event on which the powe.r to sell'depended had occurred.
By the law.o of New-Hampshlre the heirs are always to
have notice when the'estate is to be sold. They also require
an inventory of the estate and an order to sell ;- in this case
there was nothing of that kind; there was only' a license to
sell without any other proceedings. No account was filed
in New Hampshire .which took any notice of the debts
or prbperty in Rhode Island. -Cases cited, 11 ,Mas.s.51112 Mass. 503. .6 Mass, 149. 3JMass. 259. 1 Mlass.
40, 46.

-

-

It will be seen, from the record, that the will was proved
in March, and the license to sell. was granted in July, without an inventory and. account being made out. The cases
cited show, that the judge of probate has no.jurisdiction
unless it appear that there was occasion to .sell. It is contended" that if the proceedings "in New .Hampshire could
give no authority there, they could give, none in the state of
Rhode Island.
-There were no proceedings- in Rhode Island except the
fiat of the legislature. It is not pretended that thefe werd
any proceedings in Rhode Island -required by the* laws of
New Hampshire.
' Then the first- proposition is, that the deed from Cynthia
Jenckes to Brown and Wilkinsin *as a nullity. It created
no right-in law orequiiy. It was.as the act of a'stranger,
to grant land- which did not belong tohim.

644

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilkinson vs.,Lelan dand others.]

This fcllows, because, 1st, the deed would have been void
in New Hampshire.2d. Because proceedings to divest rights to land; must be
to -thelaw 6f the -land.
accordinig
It is contended that the powers of t66 legislature of
Rhode
Isiand are uhlimited and unrestrained, that they transcend
all the powers of the -other branches of the government. It
is not sufficient: to, slow'that ,the power to divest.this property vNould be limited in England, for. the powers of the
legislature of Rhode Island -are beyond those of the English
parliament. It would be well to consider how Rhode Island
car be a member of this union, with'such.a form of government as is asserted-,to ekist thee. By- the constitution.of
the United States, every state must be a republic, every state
-must have a judiciary, legislature and executive, or it is has
no constitution.
It is said that Rhode Island has no constitution; that she
has grown up without a constitution. If her government hai
no form; it cannot.be a republic, arid, has -no right to 'come
But it will be found that Rhode Island has
into t1e unit
charter of Charles -. contains all the
The
a constitution.
lrovisions for the organization of a govern.ment with legis]ative, judicial and executive branbhes. It. declares that
courts of justice shall be estiblished, and thus to them is
given the exercise of judicial functions. The legislature is
established by the same.chhrter, and its functions cannotbe
judicial. The powers of a court and.of alegislature.cannot
be. blended; nor are. th ey, properly under the charter referred to.
,
ifthe legislature of Rhode Island has julicial povers, why
does not a writ of error lie frem this Court to its judgmnts ."
Weits of error go froim: this Court to the highest judicature
of the states; but it is not denied that Rhode Island has
courts of judicature separate from the legislature; taking
c6gnizance of all cases for judicial decision. The legislature therefore in assuming the powers of a Eourt, which was
done ,when they authorized the sale of the land for the paymentof the debts, did -what- even under the Rhode Island
. constitution, they could not do.

JAIUARY -TERM 1829..
[Wilkinsor tfs. Leland and others.]

A long jlist of instances of legislative int'rference has been
exhibited by the counsel for the appellees. -Some of these
cases prove too much. Authority is given'in one of them to
sell lands in-New Hampshire.
It is necessary for the plaintiffs -in error to shqw that the
power has been exerciged against the bill, in invitum. 'arlidmerit, in England, -never proceeds' upon -any private bill,
without notice toall the parties-; and.there is no case in.which
parliament exercises its authority to dispose of land, without
the consent, in .writing, of every one who is interested.
The consent of the heirs of Jonathan Jenckes is not recited in the act of the lpgislature of Rhode Island. To establish
a usage for .legislation ofihis'kid, it should be shown, thai
therehave.been'a series og ptceedings against the will o..
parties interested, and-without notice.
There is but one of the 6ses referred to, in which the legislature of Rhode Island has undertaken to act in reference'to
private rights, which shows that they havegiven authority to
sell lands out ofjthe state. The power must be exercied legislatively, orjudicially. Is-.tie resolution of' 1792'an act, or
a decree . Is it.adecree of a probate court !:,If it is, -then*
itshould be shown that the parties were before the court, or
that notice was given.to them.
It is irnraterial which it is. The case -will always be,
of Jonathan Jendkes had this land until
that the devisees .the deed; and that .deed is, by th.e counsel of the. plaiitiffs,
admitted to be void.. -It remained, therefore, with the heirs,
until the resolution or act of the legislature.:Even taking the land to be public domain, the deed Would
not pajssit.. 'It is'not operative. .It contains no.terms of
grant, or language of transfer.
-The resolution only establishesthe deed in its form. There
are no words giving, granting, vesting; or divesting-of the
estate; all that is done is to ratify and confirim-the deed:. If
the confirmation contained words, of grant, it would -,nurd
not the fact.
as a grant ; but this is.
If the preceding act, that-of making the deed for the land
to Brown &-Wilkinson, was vdid, there are no words in'the
law to give it validity.

646-

"'SUPREME COURT.
[Wilkinson vs. Leland.and othedr.]

From Bracton'down, it has been lawv, that a.£onfimation
cannot help a vQid deed. 2 Tkomas''Cok , 516. Gilbert on
Teiures, 75. 78.
If there is no precedent 6state, the confirmation is void.
4 Danv. dbrid. 410. There -is no case where confirming
words go further than to apply to the thing itself,
The deed was a' nullity ; to confirm it in its -then stat ,
was to keep it such. At that'moment it was'void; to confirm it was to render it void permanently.
It is as if A. a creditor of B. should go to the legislature
and ask that B.'s property be transferred to him, without a
trial. It is a condemnation without a hearing, a'confiscation of property in time of peace. There is no case in -whict
such legislative proceedings have stood the test of this Court.
It-is a. case.where land was vested, in'- those who claim, it,
and has been taken fiorn them. There was no application
to the legislature of Rhode -Island by the creditors; no evidence that the interference of the legislature Was- claimed
by them: What then are the facts of the case l The landsdescended' to the heirs of Jonathan- Jenckes. The heirs.
were in New Hampshire. No creditors applied for the aid
of.the legislapire.
was no notice to'the heirs. -The
deed' of the etecutrix was' entirely void; and there is no pretence for' saying, that the interests of the heirs were jn any
manner .regarded in the course of the proceedings. Under
these factg the law was passed;. and whatever words were
used, it4;quld not have any effect, for want of power in the
body which enacted it.
This is a private act; and upon every principle and rule
of legislative proceedings, all-the parties to be affected by
-it, should have had notice, and should have consented to it.
This -is the course of le4slation in, the British parlianent.
3 Bla&k. Com. 345.
It is of no impbrtance.to the question before the Court,
whether there are restrictions or limitations, to the power of
the legislature of Rhode Island, imposed bythe constitution.
iJf at this period' there is not a general restraint on legisla-tures, in favour of private rights, there is *an end to private
properry.
-Therd

JANUARY TERM 1829.

647

[Wilkinson vs. Leland and others.3

Though there may be no prohibition in the constitution,
the legislature is restrained fr6m committing flagrant acts,
from acts s ubverting the g-reat principles of republican
'liberty, and of the social compact.; such as giying -the prqperty of A. to B. . Cited 2 Johns. 248 ; 9 Dall. 386 ; 1-'
Wheato 303; 7" Tohns. 93; 8 Johns. 511.
In this case it may be considered that the legislatbre'-ve
the act, but they did not guaranty its validity. They gave
-it because it.was asked for, but subject to all-exceptions.
They put it in the power of the persons who were interested
in its operation, to make it valid by obtaining the assent' of
the devisees, and of doing 'all other acts which were necessary to give .it validity.
It is said, that were the state of Rhode Island under the
restrictions, of a written constitution., like other states, the'
power to pass quch a law might not exist; but there ihe
legislature 'acts by the overeign authority of the people;
who may build up .and destroy. This is denied. Rhode
Island must be a republican state, and the government'must
be divided ,into departments; and' must be a government
of laws. These.departments may exist, although the same
body bxerciges the functions of both.' This is done in'New
York. But wbere a legislature acts -judicially, it proceeds
according 'to the forms, and upon the principles-which regulate courts. In this case, the legislature acted legislatively.
The language is, Resolved: judicial tribunals dieeez adjudge.
As to 'he ptec'edents which have, been referred to, from
the- proceedings. of-the legislature of Rhode Island, it may
be well obs'erved, -that the same irregularities will be found
in the early pxoceedings of the governments oflhl the states, before the principles of government were'understood or applied. The.answer to them is, -that the rights of property
were.not then'well understood.
Or if we consider the words operating not on the' instrument, but on the title; if they had been, ".confirm and ratify the title set forth, ifiithe deed ;" still it passes no title .
Ther'e was nothing in iha grantees to confirm. Confirmation;
-to enable it to operate, requires privity:

SUPREME C.OUgT.
[Wilkinson vs. Leland and others.]

Where was te. feb in *he 'properi' from November 1791
until 1792 9' It Was with the heirsi and from them it cbuld
nt be taken but' by a'cohrse of. judicial proceeding... The
legislature,- by no form of.wvords, 6ould have divested the
land out of the heirs, and vested it in ,the purchasers.
The gene ra ground assumed by 'th defendants in error
is,-. that the act of the legislature is -inoperative, because it
does"not. divest their rights ;'xfor thd lgislatureof',Rhode
Island had no. right to- pass-such a law. The law itself is
intended ds aremedy, and was no more. "Its. purport is to
establish 'a ale jmade. for the payrpnt -of debts, and its
terms imp6rt no niore.
It is said, that no'interest .in the -land existed in the .devisees-of Jonathan "Jenckes, because .they took'the estate
loaded-with the debts ofthe' devisor.: T,his inference is .n.correct.; that-their'esiate might be :made subject to these
d.b'ts, did hot pievent its vesting in the cai(.mauts, and those
under whom they niake title. It is agreed that- this. estate
might betdivested ; but only by judicial *proceedings. The
argument is,that thd'.propert - 6ould., not be"-taken away,
.without proceedings of a judicialOehaihcter,
It is. said, "thestalute-ga ve a remedy because the creditors
i
had-a right to be paid 'out of the estate;
and -that thiswas
an interference for theii-benefit. 'If it had been'a proceeding, to'bring right' into adjudication,it would be so; -but in..
this case the rights of the cfevigees-were adverse to those of
the-execut6is, and to the claims of the creditors.
Mr Wirt, in reply.
It is a matter of surprise how the'strongest minds will err
when - they look- through -the .misX of 'preju~tice. Nothing
more has been done- in this. caie than is done'by the courts
of probate in Vermont and Massachitsetts. . What is the
monster'that .the: gentleman has created ! It is that the
legislature has ailthorized an executrix to' sell lands for thepayment ofdebts, "This.is the'very'head and front of'their
offending 4 ' It was.,a mere act-of common -justice, due and
performed i4t the course. of' justice' in all tfid- states of -the
union. The facts of the case may he brieffy stated, from the

JA

Y TERM 129.

64,9 *

[Wilkinsonvs. Lelind ard others.]

bill.of exceptions. -Jonathan Jnckes diedcEin 1:787, seised
of the..lands, subject to a life estate to: Lydia his sister. That
estatewas -devised to his daughter, subject to the life estate.
Cynthia Jenckes, his wife, was executrix, and qualified. At
the time of his death. there were debts which absorbed. all..
his personal estate, and ultimately all his' real eftatp but a
small pQrtion. The judge of probate, after examination,
gave a license to.sell tle real estate. -Itwas sold by the
executrix tO those under whom the plaintiff in error claiihs,
the sale to be confirmed by an act of the legislature. of Rh6deIsland where the lands laid.' The.legislature passed .acon-.
firming act, and the purchase money,was paid, and the debts
of Jonathan Jenckes were digcharged."
The purchase was made ofi the faith of the law of Rhode
Island; the money paid upn .the fai.th of that law; and all
this was done, thirty-four years before the ejpctment vas
-brought in-the circuit court.of Rhode Island. In the mean
time Qther.bnna fide purchasers have becme :possessed of
the land:'and who come fo-ward how tb claim it '.-noio6ther'
bona fide purchasers; but the heir of Jonathan Jenckes.
"The attempt here is,
to make the lands fulfil two purpos'ss,
1. 'The payment of. the debts of.their.father by.tie sale;*
and 2. Then to recal that sale, that he lands aysu portt~e
heirs of the debtor. The'claim is against all the porify, and
the. course of proceeding in New England."
The 'ease comes here under'a pr.o formi judgment of the.
circuit court. The'inquiry is, whether.the.Court erred in
giving the instructions asked for; in saying that the couiveyance and proceedings, by which the title was'.intended to be
vested in the purchasers, dil nut "divest tAe. legal estate of
the heirs of Jonathan Jenckes.
In Massachusdtts and Rhode Island eall the estate real and
personal of the deceased is subject to the payment of debts.
All the statutes of the northern states,.although they varyin
detail, contain this principle. Bigelow's Digest,. 350. 4
Mass, 254. 18 Mass. 157. 4 .Mass. 654. 3 Mass. 258.
1 Jlass. 340.
By a reference to these authorities, itwill appear that in
order to justify a. license to sell in 'eithe'r of those states,
VOL.. IL.-4 G

650

SUPREME COURT.
(Wilkinson.is. 'Lelanc and others.]

nothing mpre-is- necessary but io satisfy-the judge that the
personal estate is not sufficienlt to discharge the debts of the
*deceased, No form of proceeding-is required. It is done
..by presenting the account of the debts and, personal estate,
and the judge then gives the license.
Objections have been- made by the counsel for th defendants in errfr, to The proceedings in New.Hampshire.
is siid they weie a nuUi'ty; that they were irregularly granted." This is-denied, and no authorities haie been shown in
support of the objectifns. .' It.has been urgdd that notice
should.have been givento--the heirs. There'has been no
case cited in Massachus'tts which looks to the necessity of
notice -to the .heirs of the application for a license'to the
-judge of priobate:
The regulqrity of the peoreedings is to be presumed, after
so- long a lapse of time. If notice is -required; if evidence
.different from -that which' is shown to have been exhibited
before the.judge'-of probate was iiecessary; it is, and-rught
to be consid'red that, it.was. furnished.
In legal-eontemplation, boih th6 real and personal estate
of a deceased: person, go intg" the. hands of the-executor for
the payment of.debt§.." 4.Mass. 354. 18 Mass. 157.. Exe',
cutos have no -right'to take. possession. pf-.the' lands, but it
is often done with the approbation 6f courts. To. Ehow.hoq6mpletely~laids are in .thehands of executors, where a.judgmenf is obtained , against executors forthe debt pf the testotor, the plaintiffmniy issue his execuffon
-it

against the 'lands, in the -hands,of the heir.' 3 ,Mass. 258.
, It is true the title-descends -to the- heir, but it descends
.subject to the .debts. The heir takes :thelands liable to their
being taken 'from-him when. the debts require it; without
pro*eeding8 against him, and without notice to him.- .Bigelow'-s Dig. 355.: Nor is it only in the hands ofthe heir they
are thus liable, they continue ko"when they have passed lo
his alicn ee.
Such it the law .of vested e~tates, With which it-is said-the
legislature has interfered. - The estate upon. which thi law,
-operated, was held by the Iieirs;'subject.to, the exercise of
the very power by which ii was. taken from .ihe heir.'

*'JANUAPY TERM I8-9.

.651.

[WiMinson vs..Leland and others.]

The law of New Hampshire is the samq as that of Massachusetts. In New Hampshire, 'the proper tribunal to autho-.
rise the sale of the land was. applied to; and-thus the acts
done by the.executrix were those which the testat'r, who directed a sale of his real estate for the paymentof his debtsauthorized her to do.
But if these proceedings weie irregular,'it would not af-fect the case. It is not meant to contend that the license.to
sell, given by the judge in New "Hampsh'ire, authorized the
sale in Connecticut. What was the p.ower of the executrix
under the will !. A an executrix,. she had the power'to do
all and every thing an"egecutrix could do by law.- In somae.
of the ptates, execumtors who have beepi qualified'in one siate,.
.can act in all. This is thie law of Pennsylvania, and of North
Carolina, and of Mississippi.. Under the will of her husband;
Cynthia Jenckes could do any thing in Rhode. Island, which
she could do in'New Hampshire. She entered Rhode Island
as the. regular agent,'to pay the debts due by the testator.
The probate of the will only was necessary. Ili this character she made 'a sale of a portion- of the estate, having, no*
authority to do so; this is admitted. In order to induce'the
purchase, she gave her bond, by which'it was stipulated that
she would obtain an act of the legislature to
make the sale
valid, and this was done. Thus the principles of the laws
of Rhode Island -were applied, and the estaie became the
mehnsbf discharging .the debts of the testator..
By a comparison of -the acts -ofthe courts of other-states,
w.e shall see how far the'actof Rhode Island exceeded the
-powers* exercised by them. It is said that' this is a 'case
of a trial without notice; a confi'scation In no-case where
.proceedings against 6xecutors are. resorted toi for the pur-,
pose of making lands a fund to pay debts, is notice given to
heirs,-.not in the c.ourts- of other states,-but. in the court of
•pr6bateinRhode -hsaiid, or New-Hampshire. The'reproacheswhich: havi..been. cast UlOi the acts of Cynthia Jenckes, apply,- ther~fore,, with.equal- right -to all proceedings of this
description; -nor isthere an.y. reason, whr n'bti'e should be
g.ven to the heirs; they fakettheestateas 'has beea stated,
subject to the debts of ihianrestor.

•SUPREME COURT.
[Wilkinson is; Lelandrndtothiers.]

It has been said that in the pi6eedings there was frgudj
that the iegislature were deceived. This is denied: bit if
it were §o, would this Court set aide the -law; the remedy
instich a case would be 'by ai- application t6 the sovereign
who- had been deceived;
"The legislature phssed the law for the purpose of giving
validity to an. act; which-alt knew without: it would not pass
the estate.
The petiti9n of Cynthia Jenekes was not that they should
ratify:the deed, but the sale.; that is, thpat the 'sale'should be
effec.tual to convey the estate"of.the testator.*
-Who is -the.sovereign that can give validity to measures
which'are intendedto pass the title-to lands within the state ?.
-is'itn~ot thg.legislaiure of.the .state, and are not its" acts ef-..
fectualtodo this, unless"they come in contact with the great
pIineiples'of the social'compact . 'What power.has this
C4ouitvto say 'this deed- shall not-pass twe estate . With which
of.theprineiplei of-the constitution of the United Sthtes i,
it in t oriflict 9.Where is' the piovisio'ni which it oppbses ..Ii
is not an exl.pst facto law. 'The prohibition in ,the constitution in referenc. to ex post"fect9 laws applies' to criminal
eniacfments. Is'it .a lhw which imlairs ihd obligation of a
t
cbntiactJ It-affirms
a contract. It is 'said to be'incompatible 'With a repulbicn.ngoveifn-en.
'It denied- thai legislative; 'executive. and judjcihl po*ers
mustbein differet't- 'art4s' to constitute. a r .publican'form.
of government. That' this'shQpld be so is a.grea't and im-portant 'iiciple,. but 'it is not a test of :republieah 'government:.. Ther is nothing which prohibits the. exercise of all
the powers of goveinment by a legislaturi. If the guarantee
of a reppblidan forniof government" by-the .tnited States
was violated by the. government of Jhode Island, w*y tad'.
not the Uhifed -States 'interfered I!
Tho charter of'the government of Rhode' Island is a ske
leton; i.does -not.
form the goavernment. It, is the-usageg of
,Rhode Island that co pose the constitution. -The people
say their iegislature shall have certain powers, a-ac be unlimited; this ig.theiefo'r6 the form of government with which
they are satistiea., t,oliIisians may protest, and o'iators may

JANUARY TERM. 1829
[Wilkinsau Vs. Leland and others.]

declaim; but this does not affect the case. This Court will.
not take*a.Vay from them what they have said they will have.
The references, which have .breen- made to the proeedings
of the legislatuire, show thiat .it. ixercises all kinds of pow.er;
-It is said thifs.is.a new -case; suppqse it is so,-is it necessary.
to show the. aiuthority-fok the first law4 The authority is that
'.of the people.'. The* legislature: a.ways. haa:acted as the
emergency presented. - -Whom do they injure.1 They do not..
infringe their own constitution; "and when they do so, itis
for the people of the state. to inteifere. .They.-do 'notiing
which is. contrary to the consttution.of the eUnited'States
If .the legislature.of.Rhode'Islgnd possessdd.the-power to
order a sale, why n ot haie powertq confirm-the sale? 'There
is no exercise of a greater power hire..' A -court of pjobate
might, notdo it, bt that court is limited in its powers. A
subsequent- rati.fication' is equivalent tO a prior, authority.
It -is said that the staie:has. done what parliament could
-not have done, Blackstone as been' refer'ed to, to show
that 1'rivate act§ do not pass- vithout notice. Parliament
Icuts the'kiot and.destroys cintracts,'and
there forenotice is

necessary,There is po violation ofcontract in*'this aci; the law oily
.suppos6s an' omitted ciise-. "aiid -gives. a'remedy where. the
principles of law require it,
It is cbntended'that the'confirmation has no effect,because

it operates on a'void deed. A "reference&to authorities will
show the err"ri of this assumption. 1 Roll, db. 483.. "..
RaqYM. 292. -297.
- Cannoi: liarlia~ent'confirm avoid deed '. They c'an do so,.
and'the-right has never been questioned.
MrJustice-STony'delivered the opinion of-the Court.
This is a writ of error to ihe circuit court .of the. district'
of, Rhode .Island, in a case whe*r the- 'plaintiff in error was
defendant in the court below.. The original action va's an
ejectment,- in'the " nature of a 'real action, according to 'he
local' practi.e, to secover a parcel of land- in North Providence -.in that stat&. There were sdveial-pleas pleade'd of'
ihe st tutp of limitations, uion ivhich A'is unnecessary' t

SUPREME COURT,-[Wilkinson vs. Leland and others.]

say a~y thing, as tile questions thereon have been waived
at the bafr..' The cause was tried upon the general issue;
and, by consent of the parties, a verdict wias.taken for the
plaintiffs, and i bill of exceptions allowed upon a pro forma
opinion "giVen by"the court in kavour of the plaintiffs, to
enable the patties to bring the case.before this Court for a
final detgrmination. The only "questidns"which have been
discussed at the bar arise- under this bill of exceptions.
The facts are •som6what domplicated in their details, but
'those, which are mateiial to the points before us" may be
summed up in a few words.
The plaintiffs below are the heirs at law of Cynthia.Jen'ckes,to -whom her father, Jonathafi Jenckes, by his will in 1787,
devised the demanded- pre.mises, in fee, subject to a life estate
then in being, but.which dxpired in 1794. By his will,. Sonathan Jenckes, appointed his wife Cynthia, and one Arthur
,Fenner, executrix and executor. of his will. Fenner hever
ucceptedthe appointment. At the tinie of his death Jonaihan Jdnckes lived' in New Hampshire, 'and aftei his death
his widow, dtuly proved the will in the*proper court of probate. inthai state, and took upon herself the administration
of the estate' as exectrtrix. -The estate was represented'insolvent, dd -commissioners were appointed in the usual
manner to ascertain the amount of the debts.- The execu*trix, inJuly 1.790, obtained a license from the judge of probat, ihNgw'Hampshire; to:sell so much of the real estate

of(the.testat6r, as, together with"his personal esiate, would
-be sufficient to .pay his •debts and'incidental charges.' The
will was never -proved, 'or administration takeni out inany
probate.c~urt of Rhode Island. - But.the executrix, in No-•
vember. 1791, sold 'tlie demanded premises to one Moses
Brown and Oziel Wilkinson, iinderwhom the defendant here
.claims, by -. deed, in which she recites her authority tosell
as aforesaid,' and purports to act as executrix in the sale.
The purchasers, howevier, not being: satisfied with her
-authority to- make the sale, -she entered into a covenant
with thdm ori the same -day, by which'she bbund herself .to procure an act'of the loegislaturi of Rhode Island, ratifying
and c64firming the -title.so granted; find, on'failure'thereof.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

655"

[Wilkihson vs. Leland and others.]'

to repay the- purchase nioney, &c. &c, She accordingly
mde an.*pplication to-the legislature ofRhode, Island for
this-purpose, stating the facts in her petition, and thereupon an act was passed by the legislature; at Jurie. session'
1 92, granting.the prayei" of-her petition and ritifying'the
title. - The terms f-this act we shall -have occasion hereafter to c'nsrider. 1 6 Febrtary, 4I.792, she settled her administration account iiii. the prob.ate court- in New Hampshire, and' thereupon- the- balince-of 1 5 7. 7d. only remained in*her hands foi" distribution.
Such-are-.the material facts ; and thd questions disicussed
at the bar,.ultimately resolve themselves into-'the consideration of the.validity and effect of' the, it of -1792. - If that.
act was constitutional, and its te ns, when properly con-'
strued, amount t6-k legal confirmation of. thesale and- the
proceedings .thereon,, then the plaintiff, is entitled to judg•ment, - and the" judgment bel6w was er'roneous. "-If otherwise, then the judgment ohghtto be aifirned.
It is wholly unnecessary to go into an exan'ination-of'the
regularity.of the prgceedings-of the probate court in New
Hampshire, and of the.order or license.there grhnted to the'
executrix .to sell the real e statd of-the testator.- That cause
could.have no legal operation iji'Rhbde Island. The legi's.
lative and judicirl authority of New -Haz'pshire were bouhd- .
ed by the .territbry bf that state, -and could iot-be rightfully
exercised to.pass. estates lying in ahother .state. -The sale,.
therefore,- made by the executrix to Moses Brown and Oziel
Wilkinsor, in'virtue, of the said license,, was. utterly void;
and the deed given thereupon was; prQprio vigore, ifiopera-" tive to-pass any title of the testator to Einy laids described.
therein, It was a mere nullity. "
Upon the death of the testatgr, his lands in Rhode Island,
-f not devised, were cast by*descent upon his- heirs, accord-.
ing to. the.laws of that state. If- devised,. they would pass
to his devisees' according to the, legal initendment of-the
, words of the devise;- -But,.by the lIws of Rhode Island,-the,
proba'te of a Will ii the proper 'robate court is understoqd
to be an -indispensable prelimina'ry. t6 establish the right-of
the devisee, and then his itle relates back to thle death -of
-

-

SUPREME COURT[Wilkinson vs. Leland and others.]

-

the testator. No probateof this will has.ever been made
in any court of probate in Rhode Island ; but that objection
is not now ifisisted on; and. if it were, and the act of 1792
is to have any operation, it must be considered as dispensing
with or superseding that ceremony.
The objections taken by the defendants, to this act, are, in
the first place, that it is void as an act'of legislation, because it trainscends-the authority which the legislature of
Rhode Island can rightfully exercise under its present form
of government. And, ir the next place, that it is void as anact of confirmation,. because its terms are not such-as .to
give validity to the sale and deed, so as to pass the title of
the. testator, even if it were otherwise constitutional.
The first objection deserves grave consideration 'from its
general importance, To all that has been said at the bar
upon the danger, inconvenience and mischiefs of retrospectiVe legislation in general, and of acts of the character of
the present in particular, this Court -has listened with 4ttention, and felt the fill force of the reasoning.- It is an exercise of power, which is of so summary a nature,, so.fraught
with inconvenience, so liable to .disturb the security of
titles; and to spring by surprise upon the innocent and un'wary, to their injury and sometimes to their ruin;" that a
lgislature invested with the power, can scarcely be too.
cautious or too abstemious in the exertion of it.
We must decide this objection,, however, not upon principles of public policy, but of power; a#id precisely as the
state court of Rhode tIland itself ought.to decide it.
Rhode Island is the only state in the uriion which has not
,awritten constitution' of'government, containing its lindamental laws and institutions: Until' th6 revolution in 1776,
it was gevernied by the charter granted -by Chlarles II. in
the fifteenih-year of his reign. That charter, has ever since
continued in its general provisiqns. to. regulate the exercise
'and distribution of the powers of government. It has never
be-n foimally abrogated by the, people; and, except so far
as it has been modified to meet the exigences ot. the revolution, may be considered ai now a fundamental law. By
this charter the. power to make laws isgranted to the gepe-

JANUARY TERM- 1 2.

07

[Wilkinson vS. Leland and others.]

"ral assembly in 'ih most. ample"manner, "so as such laws,•&c. be not cofitrary an4" repixgnint unio, but as near as may.
be agreeable to the laws,'&c.:of England, coifsidefi'ig 'the
nature andconstitution of the place.and people there*" What
is the 'true extent of the power- tbus granted, must b •open
to. xlanation, as well by usage,.'as by constriuction -of-the
terms,*in which it is given'. "In"a.govinment.professqingfo
regard the -great rights of p'ets6nal" liberty and of property,.
and which is required to. le'islateL in: subordirition to the
general laws of E'ngland, it would not lightly be-presumed
that.the greatprinciples bf-MagnO" Charta were to be: disreghrded, or tlat the.'estatei of its'.subjeetfs'wdre. liable to be
taken aaavy without t rial; ith outinoi a , and wiib.out offence.
"Evenif such' uthorify could be deemedpo have been: confided
. by.the cliar.t'r to the' general assembly of .hode Island,.ai an
ex6rcise of traiis'eidental..sover.ignty before'the revolutioli, it.
can scarcely be imaginedthat tiat grbat event could have left
the people ofthatstat.'subjected.t6 its .uncontrolld and ar-'
bitrary bxerbise.- T6iat.g66nmentcan" sda'rcely be deemedto be -free, where&th'. rigfts of property.are left solely dePendent"up6n the will qf a legislative. bo!.y.without a'ny.xe.traint. Thefund.6nfal mnxnsofa free .goernt eht seem •
to Tequiref thaV the-rights of p.ers.nal .iberty. and privrate propetty should be•.ieldi sacred. A..t 1eag t6 couri of ustice iit
this country would. bb wairhited.in assuming,-thatth -power
to.violate and. disregard them; a power 'so repugnant-to the,
common principle's cflustice and civil liberty,, luik-edd under
any'general'grant CT legislative authority,'or :ough to be
-implied from any:geneial, exprepsibns of the wilI of the peao'ple. 'The people ought iiot to be pjesumed to--part With.
righis so .vital"to thefr security and well- being, wifiout very
.strong and-'direet ex presion'sW such ani tention'- in.Terret vs. Taylor, 9 Crar/6,43, itwa's -held by thi'C6urt;that
a grant or. title:' tjands.;oie' made by the"legislaturk to any.
person or corporatioii -is.
irrevoeamble, ind . cannbt: be xe-asumed by any' subsequentlgislative''t•; and that iidiffereuit
doctrizie is utteily.ificonsistent with thegr'eat and fundamenfal.principfe of arepublican government,and with the right of
the cltizeins to the free enjoyment of their prpperty lqwfully
Vot. II.-:4 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Wilkinson vs. Lelaed and qthers.]

acquired.. We know of no case., in which a legislative act to
transf6r the property of A.. to B." wiihbut his consent, has ever
been' held a coistitutional exercise of legislative power in
any state in the union. On the . contrary,.- it has bedn constantly resisted *as inconsistent with just principles, by every
judicial tribunal in- which it .ias'been attempted to be enforded. -We are'nbt prepared theref6re'to admit'that-the
p-eople-of Rhode island have ever delegated to their legislature the power to'divest the vested rights of property, -and
transfer4hem without the assent'of the parties. The counsel for the plaihtiffs have. themselves admitted that they
cannot contend for any such doctrine.
The question thedn arises whether the.act.of 1792 involves
any sueh'exetciseofpowe. -It is admitted that the title of
an heir by descent in'the-real estate of his ancestor, and of
adevisee inan estate unconditionally d&visedto'him, is;upon
the death of the party under whom he claimed, immediately
devolved upon him, and lie acquires a .vested eftate. But
thig, though true in a general-'sense, still leaves.his title encumbered with all the liens, which have been created'by the
party in his life ime, or by the* law at his. decease. .'It is
not .an uniqualified, though it- be a vested' i'nterest; and it*
confers no title, except to what remains, after every such
lieh is discharged. Ih. the piesent case, the devisee under
th.will of Jonathanjenckes without doubt.took avested estate,
in'fee in' the lands in Rhode -Island. But it'was an estate,
still subject'to all the qualifications anf liens which the laws
of that state 'annexed to those lands. It' is not sufficient to
entitle the- heirs of the devisee now to recover, to establish
the fact that theestate so v'ested has been divested; but that
it 1ias been divested in .a man ner inconsistent'with the principles of law.
By the laws of Rhode Island, as indeed by the laws of the
other New England states, (for the same general system
pervades thpfm on this subject) the'real est'ate-of testators
and intestates'stands chargea"le with the 'payment'of their
debts, upgn a deficiency of assets of pe'rsonal estate. - The
deficiency' being once ascertained in .'the probate court, a
license is granted by-the proper.jutiicial tribunal, upon the

JANUARY TERM 1829
[Wilkinson vs. Lelahd and others.]

petition of the executor or administrator, to sell so much of
the real estate as may be necessary to pay the debts and in-ident'a chhrges.. The manner in which .the sale is made is
prescribed by.the general -laws. In Mas~achusetts 'and
Rhod Island, the license to sell is granted, as matter of.
course, without notice to the heirs or devisees; upon the-mere
production of proof from the probate court of the de'ficiency
6f personal-assets. And the purchaser at the'sale,-upon receiving a deed from the executor'or administrat)r, has a complete title; andis iii immediately under the deceased, and may
ente, and recover-the possession of the estate, notWi'thstanding any inteimediate de-cents, sales," disseisins, or other
-transfers bftitle or seisin. ' If therefore the whole real estate
be -necessary.for- the-.payment of debts,.and the whole is-sold,
the title of the heirs or deViseeg is,-:by the denera'l- operalio ns
-of law: divested and superseded; and so, pro -tanto, ih'case
of apartial sale:.
From thIs summary statement of th6 laws 6f Rhode Island,
it is apparent, 'that the. deyised wide" whom the6'tpyesent
plaintiffs claim, tok the land in-controversy, subject to the
-lien for .the -debts §f the testator. Her estate wa- adefeasibl.a'
estate, liable to be. diVested upon a sale 6y the executrix,
in the 6rdifiary course of law, for the.payfier-. 6f such, debts ;and- all- that-she could rightfully' laim, would-be the. residie
bf the real .estate after suph debts' were fully satisfied.. In
point of fract;.as it appears from the. evidence ijr
the case,
more debts were due in Rhode Island than the Whole value
"for wfiich all the -estate (here wa. sold; and there-is -othing
to impeach the fairness ofth sdle. ".'he -'Orobate pf6peee
-ings-furilei's.how;- that the'estate Was'repiesented to be in:s61vent; and ifi fact, it approaehed, very near. to afi actual
insolvenci. So- ih'at upon 'this posture- of the case, if. the
dxeeutrix had proceede.d to obtain a license to s6l, atd. had
sold*the estate according to the general -lawes of Rhdde-Is- land, the devisee and her heirs Wbuld have :been divested f
their whole interest iitlie-estate, in a manner entirely corn""plete 4nd, uhexceptionable; --Th-Ly have- been 'divested df
their formal-title in another manner, in -favour of creditors
eiitited to- the eitate ; or rather, their -formal title has been
made subservierrt to the paramount title- of the creditors.

SUPREME.CO-URT.
[Wilkinson vs. Leland and others.]

Sortie suggestions have been °thrown out at the bar, intimating a doubt whether the statutes of Rhode Island, giving to
its courts authority t6.sell lands, for payment of debts, extended, i6 cases'vwhete the deceased was'not,,at the time of
his death, an inhabitant of the state. It is believed that the
practical 6onstructiov.,f these statutes has been .otherwise.
But it is unnecessary. to.consider whether that practical construction be correct or not, inasmuch as the laws of Rhode.
Island, in all cases, make the req estate of persons deceased.
chargeable with their debfs, whether inhabitants or nit. If
the authority to enforce sucha charge by a sale be not confided to any subordinate court, it must, if at all, be exercised
:by the legislature itself. If it be'so confided, it still remains
to be shoVir, that. the legislature is precluded from a cdndirrent- exercise of power.
What then are the objections to thd act 6f 41,4921 . First,
it is said that it divests vested'righits of property. 'But.it has
been already shown that it divests nor sucW rights, except
in' favour of existingliens5 of paramount obligation;'and that
the estate was vestea in the devisee, eipressly subject to
sudh rights. ,.Then again, itlis said.to be an act of judicial
authorit,,which the legislattie was not c6mpetent to exer-.
cise at'hall; 9r if it could exercis6 'it, it could be only after
due'n6tice.to alf the 'parties'in, interest, and'a hearing, and
decree. 'We do.'not think th'at the act -is -to*be considered
as-ajudicial act; but'as an. exertise of legislation. It purports to .be a. legiilative'resolution,'.and not a decree: . As to
notice, if it wiere-necessary, (-and it certainly would be :Wise
And;cdnvenient to give notice, where' extraordircarylefforts'
ofdl'egisliation ar6 iesortedt t6, which touch private' rights,)
it might,well be presumed, after the,lapse of more than thirty
yearsi and the 'acquiescence of the parties for the same period,
that such notice was actually given. -But by -the;general
laws of Rhode Island .upon..this sibject, no notice is required to be, or: isin practice, given, to-heirs or devisees, in cases
of sales of this nature ; 'and it.would be strange, if-the legislature- might not do without notice the ,same act which it
would delegate*authority to another to do without notice.
If the'legislature'had authorised a fut.ire sale by the execu-

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Wilkinson va. Leland and others.]

trix for .the payment of debts, it is not easy to perceive any
sound objection to it. - There is- nothing in the nature ofthe
act which requires that it should be perforrked by A judicial
tribunal, or that it should be 'performed h~y a delegate, illstead of the legislature itself. It is remedial in its nature, to
give effect to existing rights.
But it.is said that this isa retrospective act, which gives
validity to a void. transaction. Admitting that it does'so,
still it do'es~at follow that-it may".ot be within 'the !scop6
of tfhe legislative .uthbrity, ik. a government .like that of
-Rhode Islahd, if itaoes not divest the. settled rights of property. A salb had already been made by the e .ecutrix under a
void authority, but in entire good faith, (for it is not attemptr
ed to be'impeached for fraud;) and. the proceeds, c.distituting
p. fund f6or the payment of creditors, were ready to be distributed as soon as the sale vas made effectual to pass the title.
It is but common justice to presume that thd legislature wag satisfied that the sale was bbna fide,'and, for. the. full -value
of the estate.' No credii-tors have eer attempted to disturb
it. , The sale .thehiwas. ratified -by.the*legislature' not todestroy. existing rights, but toeffetuate them,.and in. a.manner
beneficial to the parties. We cannot say that this is an:excess of legislative power ;.unleis we are prepare.d to say, that
in a state-ot. having a writtein cofstitution, act. oflegisla-tion, having.a retr6spective operation, ar6 vdid-.as to all pe'r:.
sons not 'ssenting thereto; even thougli they may be qfrof
beneficial purposes, and to enfofce existing rights.--.:,We
think that thiscannot be assumed .as a general principle, by
courts of justi e. The present 'case is- not so strong 'in its.
cireumstances as that'of Caldervs,. Bull,.3 Pall. Rep! 386,.
or.Rice 6s. Parkman, 16 JMass. Rep. 226; ip both of Which.
the resolies of the legislature were held to be copstitutionaL.
'JHitherto, the reasoning of the Court has proceeded uoon
*the ground that the act of 1.792 was in its terms sufficient to
give compldte.validity to the-sale and deed bf the executrix,
so as to pass the testator's title. It .remains -to consider
whether such is its liredicament in point.,of law.
For the purpose of giving a constructiQg, to the words of
the 'act, we have' been referred to the "do,itt e .of confirma-

•662.

SUPREME COURT.
L[W.ldkiqOivs. Leland-and othem.j.

privateofpersons.
. tion at the *o06nmon law,'in deeds.betWeen words
adeed
-appropriate
It is said thiat-tlie 'act uses 'the
of confirmation, " ratify and -confirm;"'and that 'i confirmati6n at the common law will not mrtke valid a' void.estate. or
act, but 'only one which io v6idablb.- It is.in our judgmenht
wholly unnecessary to enter upo'-l-aiy examination of this.
doctrin-e of the comnon-law, som#,tf which is of great nic.ety
and strictness;, b eause. the .present-'is,''not an acbetween'
pr.ivate persons ihaving interests and- righti to be operated
upon by the terms of their deed. This':is a legislative act,
and is to be interpreted accor ding to the ineritioh of tie
legislature, apparent upon its, face. ' Every -technical rule,
as to .the construction "o force .6f particular terms, must
yield to the clear expresAion of the para'mount will .of the
legislatur.6: It cannot be doubted that'an Act of parliament
may by terms of confirmation -make -valid- a void thing, if'
such is. its jntent. -The ,cases .cited in Plowden, 399, 'in
Comyn's Dig.' Confirmation, D.; and in 1 Roll. ;bridg.585,
are'-directly in' loi 't....The -only question'then is, what is
the intent of the legislature in the act of 17921 Is it.merely.
to.'confirm a void act, so as, to' leave it vbid, that is to confirig"it in its-infirmity!q or'ls it to give general validity'.and
.efficacy to'he thing 'done . Wethink ihere ig no reasonable doubt of its real' object and infent. It was to bonfirm
the sal made by the executrix, so as to pass thie title of her"

testator' to the purchase'rs." The raye.r of the petition, as
recited in tho, act,.was,'that the legislature would ".ratify
and. confirm the sale afdresaid, "which.was made, by a deed
executed by 'the "exeoutrix, &e.' .The object was a ratification of.the. sae, and. not a mere ratificatiQri pf the -formal:
-exectti6n of the..deed... The language of the act is " 9 n due
consideration, whereof ii is enacted,.&c. that the prayer of
the saidpi'titioner be granted,and' that the deed-be,.and the
same is iereby iatified .and confirmed, so far as respects..the
conveyane, of dny. eight r'inte'estin the estate .mentioned.
in said dee'd, which, belonged t'o the said-Jonathan 'enckes
at thie time of'his decease.' It purports therefore to grant
the prayer,, which asks a confirmation of'-'he sale, and con-.
firms. the deed; as a conveyance. f the right.and interest of

JANUARY TERM 1829.

663

[Wilkinson vs.'Leland and others.]

the testator. It is not an act of confirmation by the owner
of the estate; but an act of confirmation of the sale and conveyance,,by the legislature in its sovereign capacity.
We are. therefore all of opinion- that the judgment of the
circuit' court ought.to be.-reversed,.and that the cause be,
remanded with directions Io the .court to award a venire
facias de novo.

