SUPREME COURT.

Wn IA. PATTERSON, PLAINTIFF N ERROR -vs. TErE REv. Wums
JE KS ET AL. DEFENDANTS IN .ERROR.
Construction of the provisions of ihe treaties with the Indians, made by the state
,of Georgia relative .to boundaries, and of the acts of the legislature 6f that
state, relative to grants of lands within its territorial limits, and which'were
not within the. Indiai boundary line, as defined by the treaties and as'recogpized by those acts.
Undoubtedly, the presumption is in favour of the validity of every grant issueq
in the forms prescribed by law; and it is incumbent on him .who controverts
it to support his objections. The whole burih~n of proof liHi on'him. But if
his objections depend on facts, hose facts must be submitted to a jury. If
opposing testimony'be produced, that testimony, also, must be laid before the
jury; and the court may declare tle law upon the fact, bat cannot declare it
on the testimony. [227],
If'the state of Georgia have construed their treaty with "theCherokee Indiana, byany subsequent acts manifesting an understanding of It; this Court would not
•hesitateto. adopt that construction. [230)
If the state of Georgia has practically settled the limits of Franklin county, such
settlement ought to have been'jcobclusive on '.he circuit court. [23a]
'In the nature of.things, we perceive no reason *hy the grant of the land in controversy should not be good for land which it might lawfully pass; and void
as to tbat.part of thq tract for the' granting of which the office had not beed
open. It is every day's practice to make grhnt for lands which have in part
been granted to others. It has never been suggested, that the whole grant is
void, because'a part of the land was not grantabe. [235]
The principle, that a patent coni dyiig lands lying partly within, and partly
without the territory retained by the Indians, was void as to so much as lay
within it, an& valid for the residue, was settled by this Court in tWe case of
Danforth vs. Wear, 9 Wheatoft, Q73. -This decision was .made on a pitent
dependinig on the statutes of $orth *Carolina, which contain probibitic ,s at
r,
1"236]
[a.
least as strong is those of Geor,

THIS caise came up on a writ of error to the'sixth cir.
wit court of the United Stafes for the district of Georgia.
it was tried in Milledgdville at May terrta 1827. In the
course of the trial, a number of questions were raised, on
some of which, the judges,' being divided- in opinion, rekised to give the jury the instruction prayed by the pliintiff;
and a vdrdict and judgment were rendered for the defendants. The present writ of error'was brought to reverse
this.judgment.
In the court below, the plaintiff, to sustain his case, gavein evidence.a grant- from the state of Georgia to Bazil Jones,.

JANUARY TERM 1829.

217

[Patterson vs..Jenks et al.]

for 7160 acres of land, in Fankliri county, on the wiaters
of the south fork ofthe Oconee river, since called the Appalachie, bearing, date the. 24th day of May f1787, and de-.
duced his'titl" to the aisputed "premiges regularly fim the
grantee.

. On the. piart of the defendants, it'was contended that this
grant was void..
11. Because thelaud attempted t b'e granted was without
the' temporary bounday- line 6f the state, and withii the
Indian hunting grouthd.
.. Decause the survey wanied the li'np'and stitioh trees

required 'by law; ,the surveyor had omitted to*n6e on his
pk.t the begiiining corqer;. had laid down the watei' c.6urses
inaccurately; and had been guilty, as Was alleged, of'va-riqusother.atts 'of fraud, negligenqe,'iriegblarity, or ignoranc ein making anfd .lattihg tie survey, prior td the emanation .of the grant.
Evidence was nlso g{en 'on,behalf of the plaiptif, to
establish thelines, and to prove the pdssession Dfthe defendants within'them.
The first excepiion stated, that thelpaintiff gae evidence
conducing to prove thatthie south fork of the Ocohee river,
-known as the.Appalachie, riins through the ldnd described'
by the, grant and plat aforesaid* und.er which th6.plaintiff
derives title; and that illthe lands within the said grant,
which are. in.popsession ofthe dbfendants i'n
this action are
on the north and east side of .the said south fork of the
Oconee river, and within the territorial limits of the state
of Georgia; as defihed by- Hawkhs's line, .which, said. line
was run -by Benjamid -Hawkins, under the authority of the
United States, to define the temporary boundary line between the state of Georgia and the. Creek Indians: and that
all the lands included within the aforesaid grant are situated
on.the waters of the said south fork -of the Oconee, river.
'And thereupon, the counsel for the plaintiff movedthe court
to instruct the jury, that the grant from the state of Ge6rgia !to Bazil Jones, under which the plaintiff derives title
to 7160 acres of-land in Franklin county, in the said .state,
Vor. 11.-q-2 C

218

SUPREME COURT.
[Patterson vs. Jenks et a.]

was a legal and valid, grant; which instruction the court,
being divided in opinion, refused to give.The second exception stated, that the counsel for. the
plaintiff also moved the court, to instruct the jury,. that,
upon- the aforesaid evidence, -taking, the same as true, the
said tract of land, so granted to Bdzil -Jones, was, at the
time of.the:survey and grant thereof, within the territorial
limits of 'the state of .Gorgia, as ascertained by liws and
treaties; within'the limits of Franklin county,.as, by -law defined ; and not within the Indian boundary, line; which instruction the court, being divided in' opinion, refused tq give.
The third exception stated, that the counsleffor the plaintiff also moved .the court to instruct the' jury, 'that the said
grant to Bazil Jones, under which plaintiff derived title, was
a legal and valid grant, for all the lands exhibited on the.
plat as lying north and 'east of the south fork of the Oconee
river, now called Appalachie, including all the waters of
the same; which instruction, the court, being divided in
opinion, refused to give.
The fourth exception stated-1hat the counsel for the
plaintiff moved the court to instruct the jury, that -the sAid
grant to Bazil Jones, underwhich the plaintiff de'rives title,.
was alegal find valid grant,- for all the lands exhibited on
the plats as lying north and east'of the south fork of the
Oconee river, called Appalachie; wrhich. instruction, the
said court, being-dividedri opinion, refused to give.
The fifth exception stated, that the plaintiff moreover
gave evidence: conducing to- identi -and prove certain
corner trees, station trees, and lines; of'the said .tfact of
lauid, granted to Bazil Jones aforesaid, -before described, and'
including all' the, lands on the north and east side of the
south- fork of-the Oconee-ilver, in the possession bf -the de'fendants. And thereupon, the counsel for the said. plaintiff
.moved the court to"instruct the jury, that neither the want
-of the*lire -and station trees-required by any law, nor the
omission of the'surveyor to-note onhis platthe beginning
corner, nor aiy'mistake in lilatting the water courses, nor
any 'fraud, irregularity, negligence', or ignorance of the

JANUARY TERM 1829.
.[Patterson vs. Jenks et al.]

officers of government, pridr to the issuing of the graolt to
Bazil Jones, under which th. plaintiff, derives title; did, or
could, legally, affect the right of the plaintiff to recover*;
that' the existence 'of -the grant is, in itself,, a.suffieient
ground to inier that every. prerequisite has been performed)
Afnd that as to all- irregularities, omissions, acts of fraud,
negligence, or ignorance of the officers of government,
prior to .the"emanation of. the .grant, the go.ernment of
.Georgia, and not the plaintiff claiming under.'her grant,
nu.t bear the consequences resulting- from them; which
instruction, the court, being divided-in opinion,, refused t
give.
The sixth exception stated, that the plaintiff moreover'
gave evidence conducing to prove,' that the title of Bazil
.Jones, the grantee of the said land, had been regularly imd
legally conveyed to the lessee of the plaintiff in this action, before the commencement thereof; and that all the.
lands in the possession of the defendants, and of eacli- of
them, at the time of the service of tie process in tiis action,
were within the lines described by. the said grant to the said
•Bazil Jones, and were on the, north and east side of the said
south fork of the Oconee river. And, thereupon, the said
counsel for the plaintiff moved the court to- instruct.the
jury, that, upon the aforesaid evidence, if the jury. believed'
the same, the plaintiff was, by law, entitled to recover the
premises in dispute; which -instruction the court, being
,divided in opinion, refused to give.
On the part of the plaintiff in error, also plaintiff 'in the
"original action,-two points were made:
1. That the grant to Bazil Jones is a good-and valid
.grant, in toto.
2. That, :if' not: good for -the whole it is so at least
in part, including all the premises disputed in the present
action.
To maintain these propositions, it was insisted,
1. That, at the time of the emanation of the grant, to
Bazil' Jones, under which the plaintiff desires title, the lands
lying on the south fork of the Oconee-river, including all
the waters of the -same, were within the territorial limits of

SUPREME COURT.
[Patterson vs. Jenks et ali.

the state of Georgia, within the limits of Franklin.county,
,as bylaw defined, and not .within the" temporary Indian
boundary line;' and that the said grant to Bazil Jones was.
and. is, a good and valid grant for all the lands exhibited on
the plat as lying north and .east of the-south fork of the
Oconee river, now .calle'd Appalach.ie, including all the
Waters of the same.
2. That a large patt of the larid embraced in the said
grant lies north and east of the south fork of the Oconee
river, now called Appalachie, being ihe branch designated
by the United States .commissioner, Hawkins, as the temporary Indian boundary line.; and wasrconsequently, at the
time of the issuing the said grant, within the acknowledged
limits of the state of Georgia. As to so much of the-said
land, therefore, the grant is valid*; and, since this compre'bends all that was-in possession of the defendants at the
commencement of the present action, the.plaintiff isintitled
to recover.
3; That neither the want of the line and station trees
required by any law, nor the omission of the surveyor lo
note on his plat the beginning corner, nor any mistake in
his platting the water courses,, nor any fraud, irregularity,.
negligence, or ignorance of the officers of government,
prior to the issuing of the grant to Bazil Jones, under which
the plaintiff derives title, did, or -could, legally, affect the
right of the plaintiff to recover;' that the existence- of the
grant is, in itself, a jsufficient ground to infer that every
prerequisite has been performed; and that, as-to all -irregularities, .o~missions, acts of fraud, negligence, or ignorance
of the officers of gov.ernment, prior to the emanation of the
grant, the government of Georgia, and not the plaintiff
claiming under her grant, must bear the consequences resulting from" them.
The case was argued by Mr Wilde and Mr Berrien for
the plaintiff, :-nd by Mr Haynes for the defendant.
For the plaintiff in error it was contended,
That the plaintiff hafing made out a regular title from
the grantor, and the defendant being in possession of the land

JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Pattirson vs. Jenks et aL.]

covered by the title, the onfy'question was upon the validity
of the grant'; and the decision of this inquiry will depend
upon which was -the temporary boundary line 'between the
state. of Georgia and the Indian tribes in 1787, the grant
having issued itthat period .
A'grant of lands, the Indian-title to which has not beeli
extinguiihed, is not Void for that cause alone, independent
of-statutory regulations. 3 Johns. 365. 6 Cranch, 87.
This grant is ndt avoided by any statute of the state of
Georgia, which can legally operate upon it. Statutes posterior to the emanation of this grant cannot affect it. If the
grant issued legally, it.created a vested right, which could
not be divested. This grant is dated -24th of May- 1787,
and these principles dispose of all ihh i.cts of the legislature
posterior. to ihat date. The acts of 1780, Prince's Dig
263, sect. 20, and 12 83, Prince; 268, 5, are all. retrospective.
.
in terms.
Penal statutes must be construed strictly; and of this kind
is the act of 1787, Prince's Dig. 278, sect. 2, 3; and it applies to lands granted and surveyed at the date. of the law.
The plaintiff's survey was before; his grant was after the date
of this act.
The third article of the treaty.of August 1787, between
the Creeks and the state of Georgia, Marbury vs. Crawford,
-Prince,.605, provides that a new'line shall be drawn without
" delay between the present settlementa in the said state,, and
the.hunting grdunds 6fthe said Indians; to begi on Savannah river,.where the.present -line strikes it, theice up the
said river to a place oi the must northern branch of the
same, commonly called Keowee, where a noith-east line
to be drawn from the top of the Oconee mountain shall in"tersect; thence along the said line in a sotth west direction
to the said mountain ;,thence in the same direction to Tugalo. river, .Tence -to -the- top of -the Currohee -mountain,
'thence to the head of the most southern branchof the Oconee
riwer, includingall the waters of the same; thenc6 down'the
said river to the old line.
-The saine boubudary is recognized in the lth article'of the
Gulphintoh treaty, C. .141. Digest, 508. -The treaty of 1786,

'22A

SUPREE COURT.
[Patterson vs., Jenks et al.]

with -the Creeks, declares that, "ihepresent temporary lines
-rmsarved to the Indians for thpir- hunting grounds shall be
Pgreeab~e to tfie treaties of Augusta and. Gulphinton 3" and
it provides that. the lines shall be maiked. as. soon as the Indians can attend -to see it done. -C. o" JlDig.619.
Te land ait of'1784, sect. I,'defines the lines of the Indiai huting ground in the'terms of the treaty, and lays off
two new counties, Frahklin and Washinglo . C. § M.. Dig.
330; an& the 10th section of the act of 1785, C. 4 ..LDig.
3836, shows the construction whiclh the legislature put 6n.
the tre'aty.
The adoption of a waving boundary line, "including -ai
the waters," is in conformity with the example and practice ot the United. Staies in her numerous Indian treaties.
*Tha counsbl -referred to 4 art. Treaty with the Chorokee.in i785. Treaty with the same in 1791, 1807. 1 art. in
the treaty with the Peoria tribe in 1819, with the Choctaws
in. 1805, with the Chickasaws in 1786, and other treaties.
. All tle land covered, by the plaintiff's grant was, -at th
time of the execution of the survey, and the emanation of-the
grant, within the limits of the 'tate of Georgia, and within
the body of the county of Franklin; and if the same was
.subsequently retroceded to the Indians, such retrocession
would not divest the vested rights of the grantee. Its utmost
\effect-w ould be .to subject the title in fee to the Indian title
of occ'pancy, and the former would cease to be incumbered
wlienever the latter should beteroved.
If fuither proof were necessary to show that the lands on
-the waters of the south fork of the Oconee left out by the
* line of 1798, were withirn the limits of the state of'Georgia,
and had been ceddd by tme Indians and granted by the state;
that proof is supplied by an 18xl'ress recognition of the fact
by the joint act of Georgia and the United States. Articles

.of agreement or cession in.1802. 4 article,-.Price's fib. 527.
*As to the proposition, that part of the land in the grant
is within'the Indian boundary and void, and. that consequently the whole grant is void* the decision of this Court in
Danforth vs. Wear, 9 Wheaton, 673, establishes a coi-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

,9,a--

conclusive in favour'of the plaintifftrary doctrinpi and isin error on. this point.
For the defeindants in error, Mr Haynes maintained1.That the grant to Bazil Jonesw:as void, and that~no
title under it cQuld be valid; the. survey and grant lying
beyond-the temporary boundary line of the stateof Georgia;
andhat all suiveys and grantq located on the Indian hunting ground, beyond the.then temporaryjboundary.line.of the
state, were.prohibited" by the- statlite laws- of Georgia, and
declared to be aull and -void, -and-inhibited from going to
the jury as' evidence.
2. That the warrant, survey and grant purpbrted to -be
for 'land stated to be in the county. pf-Firanklin, and the
land embraced, in -ihe -survey.extentded aaross, the western
line, of the county of Friklin. and all surveys and grants,
noL lying in same county; frot 'laid outi ftre by law declared
to. be'null and void.
3. That if the expression, "waters of the south fork of the.
Qr onee ri ver," contained'in th plati mean th south fork of
the Oc4gnee itsel. or, the Appalachie rivet, the grant'is void.
on its face; as.the survey and grant -are in direct violation of
ihe-statutes of the' state.
.4.. That waters.of the south. f6rk of the.Oconee river "do
not mean the south fork of the Qconee itself, or'Appalachie,
but only,tributary streams of that -river; and that the survey.
and grant are void, for the suppression of the fac that one
of the streams marked in the-plat, .was 'the south fork of the
Oconee or Appalachie, and for the suggestion of the falsehood that'the land lay within the cpunty of Franklin when
in truth'a great part of it lay without.tltt county.- .By this
suppression of truth, and suggestion of falsehood,' the .state
-was deceived ; and by the 'raudulent deception practised by
the grantee, the survey 'and grant are void in law; and particularly so in' ihis case, as the grantee, Bazil Jones, was the
surveyor who committed the fraud on the state for his own
benefit.
In support of the first point, the tr'eaties with the Indlans,
.and the constructidn givenf 'to them by the legislature 'o1f

SUPREME COURT.
[Pqterson u. Ahnks et al.]

Georgia, were relied upon. The treaty of Augusta in 1783,
.TMarburyj Crawford'sDigest, 604, 605,calls for ' the most
southern branch of the Oconee river ;" and the act of the legislature of Georgia, in defining the line of the state, adopts
the same language. Prince'sDig. 270.
An enlarged construc'ti9n of the treaty was attempted, but
this Was not authorised by the legislature, when.defining the
boundaries of the county of Franklin; the act declaring the
boundaries to be "the most southern stream of the*Oconee
river."
This definition of boundary is referred to in subsequent
treaties, and the terms of description in those treaties are
retained. 1. 4- C. Dig. 607.
Georgia has always, both in her treaties with the Indians
and in her legislative enactments, respected this boundary
line; as well from a sense of justice to the Indians, as from
a.regard for her own dignity; and she has never admitted
that the temporary boundary extended west of ".the south
fork of the Oconee."
A particular examination of the treaties with the Indians
will show conclusively, that "the south fork of the Oconee,"
mentioned in the treaties of 1783, is Appalachie river, as
known in the laws, and to the citizens of Georgia. M. 4- G.
619. Watkins's Dig. 364. Prince'sDig. 263.268.275.278.
304. Watkins, 363. 551. These treaties and statutes of
the state, show beyond controversy, that the grants within
the boundary of the Indian lands were void.
Upon the second point it was urged, that the act of 1784,
passed soon after the treaty of 1783,, made at Augusta,
made the grants beyond the line ,of Franklin .county, established by that .law, absolutely void. Prince'sDig.270.
The warrant cells for land in the county of Franklin, and
the survey. says'the land does lie there ; and the grant is issued accordingly. Taking the Appalachie as the western
boundary-of the county, the land does not lie Within the
county.. -The surveyor who stated the fact to be otherwise,
:committed a deceptioa on the state.
.By the.laws ot Georgid, .a grant of land-not in-the cou 4 -

JANUARY TERM- 1829.

: 5

[Patterson vs; Jenks et al.]

ties laid out by the state is void. Such grants are to be declared null and void. Princei 263. 271. 275..278.
-The third proposition of the defendant in error was considered as established by the freatie-s and statutes referred
to; and.in maintaining the fouith, it was urged. by the counsel, that the represefitation of Bazil-Jones, in ieturning -the
survey, was an intended deception on the state, and no title
to the land could be derived' through the same. Cited 7
Bac. ./b. 64. 4. , 4 Com. Dig. 307, 308. 2 Coke's Rep. 33.
2 Wilson?'s Rep. -347. 10 Tohns. 23. 9 Cranch, 99. 101.
10 Johns. 23. 5 Wheaton, 293. 1 Wheaton, 115. 155.
In answer to the claim of the plaintiff in error, that the
grant wds good for that-part of the land which was admitted
to lie within the county of Franklin, although it might be
void as to the part beyond -the same; the counsel for the de5
fendants contended, that the, law is fully settled, that-an instrument void, in part is void altogether.. Cited 1 Plowd.
54. 3 Taunton, 226. Cro. James, 34. 3 Coke's Rep. 77.
14 Johns. 454. 458. 4 Com. Dig-. 307
1 Co. Rep. 26. 11
Co.:Rep. 89. 9 Wheatony 673.
The attempt to obtain.relief from the weight of these authorities, by urging, that while acts-prohibited by statute vitiate all proceedings connected with them,'the same principle does not extend to an act contrary to the common law,
is opposed by authorities; and if this were not so, the
grant to Bazil Jones is prohibited by express statute. Act
of 1778. -. M. 4, C. 401.
These acts were not ex post facto, upon the authority of
Caldeg vs. Bull, 3 Dal. 386.
When an act is declared void; either by statute or common law, it is con sidered not to have had any legal existence; nor can it be set up and made valid in the hands of
any, third person. 2 Bl. Com. 63., Douglass,736.
*Mr Chief Justice MA.I1SHAL.L delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a writ of error to a judgment rendered in the court
of the United States for the sixth circuit and district of
Georgia, in a case in which the plaintiff in error was plainVot,. I.-2-1

226.

SUPREME COURT,
[Patterson 8.. Jenks et al.]

tiff in ejectment. The'plaintiff deiiv6d title from a °grant
dated in.May 1787i which was issued by the govern'or 'of
Georgia to -Bazil Jones.'. At the. trial, the counsel for the
plaintiff moved .the. court to instruct the jury on several
points,'on all which the judges were divided; and therefore.
the instructions were refused, to which refusal exceptifns
were taken. The verdict and 'judgment were rendered- in
favour of the defendants; and the plaintiff has sued out this
writ of errok, by wJich the record is removed into this Court.
>Tbe opinions refused by the court, and the exceptions taken
by counsel, will be severally considered.
The first is in these words.
The plaintiff moreover gave evidence conducing to prove,
that the south fork of the Oconee 'river, known as the Appalachie, runs through the land described by the'grant and
plat -aforesaid, under which the, plaintiff derives title; and
that all the. lands within the said grant, which are in possession of the defendants in this action, are on the north and
east side of the iaid south: fork of the Oconee river; and
within the territorial limits of the state of Georgia, as ddfined by Hawkins's line, which said line wasrun by'Benjamin
Hawkin , under the'authority of the United States, to define
the temporary boundary line between the state of Georgia
and the Creek-Indians :and that all the lands included within
the aforiesaid grant are' situated .on the waters of the said
south fork of the Oconee river. And thereupon, the counsel
for the said "plaintiff moved the court to instruct the jury,
that thegrant from thestate of Georgia to Bazil Jones, under
which the plaintiff derives title to 7160 acres of land in
Franklin county, in said state, was a-legal and valid grant;
which instruction tie court, being divided in opinions refused to give.
This prayer is: expressed in such terms that the court
could not with propriety have granted it without explanation;
whatever opinion on.the law of the case might have been
-entertained. Without staiting a single fact, or placing the
prayer on the belief of the jury that. the evidence proved any
fact,' the court is -asked to say positively, that the grant to
Bazil Jones is legal and valid. Undoubtedly the presump-

JANUARY TERM 1829.

227

[Patterson vs. Jenks et al.]

tion is in favour of the validity of-every grant issued in the*
foms prescribed by laws. and it is incumbent on him who
controverts it, to support.his objections. The whole'burthen of proof lies on. him; bit.if'his .objections depend on
facts, those facts must-be-submitted to a:jury. If opposing.
testimony te produced, that'testimony also must be laid before the jury; and'the 'court may declare the law on the fict,
but cannot, declare " ii on the testimony.. -In this case the
prayer, states that the, plaintiff offered testimony conducing
to prove certain facts which were deemed essential to the
validity of the grant, and asked the court to say,,iiot that if
the testimony was believed, or, if those fa6.ts were proved,
the grant was valid, but -positively that the grant was valid.
The cburt did not err in refusing to give this instruction.
The second exception states that the; counsel for •the:
plaintiff also. moved the court to instruct the'jury, that, upofi
the aforesaid evidence, taking the'same -as tiue, the said tract
of land, so granted to Bazil Jones%':was,, at the time of the.
survey and grant thereof, within the territorial limits of the •
state of Georgia as ascertained by lairs and treaties, within
the.limits of Franklin county as. by .Iaw defined, and not
within the Indian boundary line; which* iistruction; the
court, being -divided inopinioi, refused .to give.
This prayer., is made'on the .admission of the.testimony
stated in' the first, and on its' suffidiency to prove that the
.tract of land grantd'.to" Bazil Jones wis situated on- the
waters of -.the south fork of 'the Oconee river; and'that the"
'.land in -controversy ly on the north and. east' side of that
fork, and within.the territorial limits of-the state of Georgia,.
as defined-by the ine run by Bpjamin Hawkins, under tlie:
authority of the United States, to define the teniporary boun-:
.dary line between the. state of.G.eorgia and. the Creek Iii-'.
dians.From these. facts-thu court is asked to draw the conclusion
'thatthe tract of land .v s, at the time of the survey andgrant thereof,' within the idrritorial limits of.the state of
Georgia, and within the fimits of Franklin county, as by law
defined ; and not within the Indian boundary line.
.This praye-.requifes the court to say what was the boun.

SUPREME. COUiRT.
[Patterson vs. Jenks et al.]

dery between that pgrt of the state of Georgia, to, which its
jurisdiction was extended, and the-Indians; and-also, what
were the limits of Franklin county. As it requires an instruction respecting the whole'tract, the court was bound to
inquire whether the whole tract was within those limits.
To ascertain these boundaries, the laws of Georgia, and the
treaties of 'that state with the Creek and Cherokee Indians,
must be examined.
On the 31st- day of May, in the year 1783, a treaty was
made at Augusta, between the state of Georgia and the
Cherokee Indians, describing the line which-should thereafter separate the settlements of the whites from the hunting
grounds of the Indians. 'This line commences on the Savannah river, aid is of no importance in this case until it
reaches the top of theCurrohee mountain. It is-to proceed
"thence to the head or source of the most southern branch
of the Oconde .river including: all the waters of -the same;
and- thence down tha middle of the said branchtooti& Creek
line."
On,,the first day of November in the same year, the state
of Georgia formed a treaty with the Creek Indians, for the
purpose of dtawingithe. line between the settlements of the
whites and tbe hunting grounds of the Indians. This line
alsb commences on the Savannah river, and runs as described
in the treaty to the top of the-Currohee mountain. -It proceeds
"thence to the head or source of the most southeri -branch
of.the Oconee. river, including all'the- waters of the same,
thence down the said river to the old line."
A subsequent treaty was held with the Creeks on the 12th
of Novemiber 1785, at Galphinton. The 4th article of thistreaty declares, that " the present temporary-line reserved to
the Indians, for their hunting grouzid, shall be agreeable-to
the treaty held at Augusta in the year 1783.
-On the 28th of November 1785, the commissioners of the
United Stat6s, held a treaty with the Cherok-ees at Hopewell;
in which it was agreed that the boundary line should run
from the top'of the Currohee mountain "to the head of the
south fork- of,Oconee river."
. The treaty at Shoulder-bone, concluded in the year 1786,

JANUARY TERM 1829.22
[Patterson vs. Jenks et aL]

confirmed the line as established in the.treaties of Augusta
and of Galphinton. Ail the treaties.between Georgia and
the Indians, stipulate that the lines shall be marked as so.on
as possible ; but it does not appear -that-tlhey.were ever
marked. A.ireaty was,afterwards entered into At J.qew York,
between the United States and Creek Ipdians, on the 7th.
day of.August in the year 1790, which -fixe .the. boundary
line fromithe top of the Currohee mountain,' "to the head
or-source of the main south branch of the Oconee river,-ealled
the .Appalachie,-thence down the middle of the. said south
branch to its confluence with- the Oakmulgee."
In pursuance of this treaty. the line from the Currohee
mountain to the head- or source of the mai*n south branch-of
the river Oconee,-was run by-Benjamin Hawkins.Some ambiguity undoubtedly exists in the -ireaty made
with the Creeks at Augusta, which, in- a contest between
Georgia and the Creeks, might claim a construction favour-.
able to the pretension of the less powerful and less intelligent-or skilful party to the compact. But in a controversy
in which both parties claim -title under the s4te of Georgia,
.it would seem xeasonable to give .the article that constrjaction which Georgia.heiself has -put upon .ii- Orovided it ,be
reconcileable to the wvotds. The line it to run "to the-source
of the most southern branch of the Oconee river, including .
all the waters of the same." The. source. of the most southern branch is the source of the main stream of- that branch.
It is a poinf to which .the line is to 6e run froth the top of
the. Currohee mountain. This-line, if-the treaty gave no directions. respecting its .course, would be a straight line.
But the treaty directs it to be so. run as "to includb-all'the
waters 0t the same ;" that is, "-all: the waters" -of the, most
sonthern -branch. The line must therefore-be drawn from
the one givun point to the other,- in such direction as to ii-:
clude all the. waters of the Ynost southern branch of the
Oconee..- It must therefore, instead of.being straight, pass
round the sources *f all those streams which empty into -the
south fork On its northern, side, and are between the-points
of commencenent and of termination. But it is obvious
that no. line fr6m the top of the Curro.hee mountain to, the -

tPMleroh ft, Jedjk ei &Q,]

source ofthe'most uoithern rtianch of the Oconeo river, ean
.empty into it on the southern nide.
the Waters
iclude
To -obvito
thi . whioh
difficulty,
the defendants insist that the
.Iine shall pass round the maiin-btanch bf the south fork of the
Ocortee to the source of the lowest streavn.which empties
into it oa the south side, lad proceed down that stream,
line would include all the Waters of the south fork
-This
but
is attended
with. other difticulties of no inconsiderable
magnitude, Thb words of the treaty seem to require that
the line 'should, stopat the giurntre6f the main stream, not'at
the sourcq of an inconsiderable titulet. " From this source
the liie" is 'to proceed down the rri . It -is reasonable
proeeds down the tiver from the source
to suppote thatz it.
of the river, not froin the source oea small brandh, it is 'to
W llthe -tributtry streams of
inlude 'all the watersj that. is
that at whose source it tops. But thisfconstruetloki rqiresit to stop at the souree of a streattu which is -itselftributary
toIhe very riVer which is spoen of di one of 14 Waters.
If.this construction be admitted,. and' the. gitr4eof the
lowest stream-on the. south side be substitted for he kourd
of the main stream, still the'libe muat run doW4that lowest
water courSe -to .th south 'fork'ilhd down the south, fork to."
the old line. The--case does not inform Us that e&vein Uit
toues.
oneil
Oinewould include the .whole ttact giahted to

That'tract ii stated to' lieoon th WA"t'ers of 'the south .fork,
but not on'the Georgia side tif, the. most :xtreme of thaie
Waters*'- So much 'of it as 'may be 'situatd on"the udidn
side, of'that water couise,L would be,,'ithlh the.Indiani hunting grounds,The treaty nidde with' the Cheroees at AugUst qon 'the '
1st.daypfJuie: 1183,-s',appaiextl'intebiddd to estobligh e.
-same .line'.wleh'Was fterwvArdi adopted in thetteaty :ith
ithat i
th0.Creeks.' The ontly vatibinde iti the Iabguaged
the treaty With. the Cherokes, the- line fro the soutte'of
the south' i braftch 'of the Oconee river, i6 to ruti- "doWA
the middle- of the:'ai'd-:bratn. ;'i . in 'the tretity .*ith'the
Creeks, it isto van "doivn the river,"'' It-is.-jlt probable
tht-difterent linds . ould have been -itetnded .
I: he"state of -Gedrgii has -costrU.ed this. trdaty by .any

-JANUARY TERM .1829.

231

[Patterson vi. Jenks et al.]
subsequent acts, manifesting her understanding -'of it, we
should not hesitate to adopt. that construction in this case.
But the' bill of exceptions, contains no fact, showing that•
Georgia has adopted a'construction of her treaties with, the'
Indians, which would establish the. boundary claimed by
the plaintiff. On the contrary, -in February 1787, an act
'was passed ".for the appointment of commissionersto run
the line'-designating the Indian hunting grounds.", This
act directs tl~e commissioners -to proceed in conjundtion
with' those' to be appointed by the' Creek nation, to. trace"
and mark ",the temporary boundary line, as heretofore
'established'- that is tco say,* from the Currohee mountain,
in the .direction of the present temporary line from.Zugal. river, till the same shall strike 'the- head or source of
'the miain direct stream .of the south branch of Oconee river,
called also Appalachie, by which is to .be under~tood the
main 'fork of Oconee river, next above Little river."
This act seems to reject all claim, on the part of.Georgia;.
to lands lying south of the main stream of the south branch
of'Oconee, and to adopt the construction of the treaties at
Augusta, which appears to have be'en adopted by the com-.
missioners of the United States, at the treaty. at Hopewefll"
in 1785.
The prayer we are considering, also requested the court
T.
to instruct the jury that the tract of land granted to Bazil
-Jones was within'the limits of Franklin ciuty as by law defined.
'In February 1,784, the legislature passed an Act for laying
off twb more counties to the westward.- .One of-these was
the county .0f
PFranklin..
The.first section declares* "'that~the 'resent temporary
line' circumscribing the Indian hunting ground, shall be
*maiked by a line drawn from that pirt of the north branch
of Savannah river, kn6wn by the Pameof the Owee,. which
shll be intersected by a line north east from' the Oconee
mountairis ; thence in the same direction' to Zugalo river;from tfience-in a directinb to the top of Currohee mQuntain; thence to the heidior source bf the most southern
stream of 'the Oconee river, including all the waters of the

SUPREME COURT;
rPattersoil vs. Jenks et al.]

-same; thence down the said river to 'the old line, thence
along the old line."
The only difference between this legislative description
of the line, circumscribing the Indian hunting ground,
and that in the treaty, is in the substitution of the word
"(s tream," for the word "branch." 'In the treaty, "the
branch," and in the'law," the.stream," appear to be condidered'as "the river."' -The line is to run from its source "down
the said -river.". This language would seem to indicate,
that, a considerable, or. main branch,- or stream; one which
had acquired the name of-river; not a -small rivulet, was in
the.mind of the legislature. The lifie which runs to it from
,the.top f the Currohee mountain is subject to all the ui certainty which. atterds the same line, as described in the treaty
of Augusta.
The 2d section oftthe act proceeds to define the exterioi
lines of.thecoiinty of Franklin. They run from the Savannah river to the.south branch of the Oconee. river; thence, up,
the.siid -river, to the head or. source of the most sbuthern'
* .eam thereof; thence along the temporary line, separating
the Indian hunting ground, -to the northern branch of the
Savannah,,&.
The, southern bo¢ndary of Franklin county, from the place
where t6e line.from ,the Savannah strikes the most southern
branch of the Oconee river, is up. that river to the head or
source of the most southeri stream thereof. You find the
head or'source of this most southern.stream, by proceeding
.ui the river..
It may Well be doubted whether this description will admit of£leaving the river for any of its -small rivulets. The
words the :most 'southern stream of the south branch of the
Oconee, whose source is t9 be found by proceeding up the
river, may be satisfied, either by pursuing the most southern"
stream which has acquired the naniof river, or the rmost
southern stream which empties into the river. It can scarcely
.be imagined that Georgia' has not settled practically 'the
limits of Franklin county; and any'such settlement oughtto
have been conclusive wiih the circuit court. *But no such"
settlement is stated in the record, and the court' is required

,JANUARY TERM 1829.
[Patterson vs. Senks eta.]

in what manner its boundary lines are to be draw n,
in pursuance of the act of asgembly by which it was constituted. 'The court is relieved from the difficulty by the same
circumstance which made it unnecessary to determine the
line which circumscribed the Indian hunting grounds. The
statement of fact ,on which the opinion.of the court is asked,
does not affirm that the land lies on the northern, or Georgia
side of the most southern stream, but that it lies on the waters of the south branch of the Oconee river. *For this reason this instruction ought not to have been given as asked.
The third exception states,' that the said counsel for 'the
plaintiff also moved the court to instruct the jury, that -the
said grant to Bazil Jones, under which plaintiff derived title,
was a lqgal and valid grant for all the lands exhibited on
the -plat as lying north and east of the south fork of the
Oconee 'river, now called Appalachie, including all the
waters of the same; which instruction, the court, being divided in opinion, refused to givie.
The court understands the words, " including all the
waters bf the same," to mean waters north and east of the
south fork of the.Oconee river.." This application, like the
second, is supposed to be made on the assumption that the
facts stated in the first are true. If they are, -then all the
land contained in thepatent, lying north and east of the
south branch of Ocoilee, is on the Georgia side of the line
circumscribing the Indian hurrting ground, and within the
county of Franklin, as described by-law. Theapplication
supposed to be made to the court,. is to instruct the jury
that the grant is good for so much land *as-lies within the
county of Franklin, although part of the tract may be without that county* and within the Indian boundary. -The
counsel for the defendants insist that, under the laws of
Georgia, the whole patent is void, if any part of the land it
purports -to. grant be Wvithin the, Indian boundary. The
counsel for the plaintiff contend that the laws, so far as
they have declared patents to be void, 'are entirely retrospective ; and that*prospectively,'they only inflict penalties
on persons who hall make surveys in contravention' of the
statute.
VOL. 1I.-2 E
to say,

234

SUPREME COURT.
"[Pataern'vs. Jenks et al.]

In January 178. an act' was passed "for the more speedy
and effectual. settling of .this state." The 19th section
enacts, -4 that io Variant, survey or plat, iade or laid' out
in the lands yet within the lines of the Ifi"dians, shall be hel&
valid, .ard thoesame is 'hereby declared null and void to all
intents- and purposes whatever; nor. shall any' grant which
may'hereafter be surreptitiously obtained, be deemed Jegal
or of any effect."
'We do nct thiik -the language of this section'entirely re.t'rospecfive. The words " made or, laid out," may apply to,
the future as well as the past, and comprehend warrants and
surveys which shall be, as well as th6se which have been,
made'or laid out. in the lands 'yet. within the lines of the
Indians.
In'February i-783f Georgia passed an act for opaning her
land office. The I1th section of this as is retrospective so
far as it annuls surveys and grants. Its prospective provisions only inflict: penalties on the liersons who -shall make
surveys or attempt to obtain 'a grant. But. the 13th sectioir,
after describing the limits of the state, provides, "that nothing"hdrein before contained shall extend, or be construed
to extend, to authorize or empower any surveyor, 'or other
'Person or persons whatsoever, to'surveys, run, or make lines
upoi the lands,, before describbd as being allowed to the
Indians for hunting ground, or any part or parcel thereof,
before or until peimission for that purpose shall be granted
by- the. legislature and made known by proclamation."
In consequence of this proviso, the. land 'office could
not be tonisidered.'as Opened 'for. lands within the Indian
boundary'
The 5th'section of the act of 1785, which has been relied
oh , is refrospective.
The 'act of February '1787, for the appointment of commissioners to run the line designating the. Indian hunting
ground, 'inflicts' adaitional penalties' on those who shall
thereafter survey- or cause to be surveyed, or obtain grants
for any lands beyond the temporary line designating tie
rdian hunting grourid. The 3d section 'is" in these words,
' whereas, notwithstanding the most positive laws to the

JANUARY TERM 1829.

-235

[Patterson, vs.Jenks et al.]

contrary, many-persons, from design or'acci'dent; havre xun
large quantities-of land-.and :obtained grants for the same,
southward of the present temporary. line .between..ihe good
citizens-of this state and the Indians, and expect to hold
the :same when a cession of said land can be obtained.,- Be.
it.
therefore enacted,- that the surveys or grants for suchland be considered, nd they are hereby'deelared'to. benull'
andvoid, aid of no effect whatever. "
"This enactment is undoubtedly retrospective. It manifests, ho~vever, unequivocally the opinion-of the legislature;
that.all the surveys and grants which are declared void, had
been made and issued .contrary to the most positive- laws.'
However thpse laws-may be construed, it is, we think, oiivious, that the office was not opened for -lands situated
within the Indian hunting grounds, and that grants for t.hem.
were not authorized.
But is the whole..grant a nullity because it contains some.
land not grantable '.

In the'-nature of the thing, we perceive no reason why the
grant should .not be -good for' land which it. might lawfully

pass, and void as to that part of.1he tract for-the granting
of which the office-'had not been opened. It is every diy's
practice to make grants for lands, which have in -fact been
granted to others. It has never been suggested that the
whole grant is void because a part -of the land was not
grantable.
•-be act of February 1807, after, stating "1that many persons had run large quantities of land, and obtained grants
for the same southward of the-present temporary line betweeen the good citizens of -this state and the Indians,"
enacts "that the surveys or grants for such lands shall. be
considered null and void;" and the survey in this. case was
made in September 1786.
STils- enactment might with as much propriety be construed. to, apply to those surveys only, which were made
entirely within the Indian boundary, as to that part of a survey which lies on the Georgia side of that boundary. Neither
construction would probably" pursue the real'intent of the
legislature. Georgia was willing to grant- all the lands as"

SUPREME COURT.
[Patterson vs. Jenks et al.]

far as the Indian boundary, but unwilling to pass that line.
The sole object of the enactment, was to restrain" her citizens from passing it, by making void all surveys and grants
of lands beyond it. It is therefore'a reasonable construction
of the act, to consider it as applying to surveys, and grants,
so far only asthey were contrary to law. There is a plain
difference between a grant comprehending lands which may,
with lands which may not be granted, and one made on a
fraudulent misrepresentation or illegal consideration which
extends to, and vitiates the whole instrument., Understanding this prayer as involving the, validity. of the grant, so far
only as respects its extending in part into the Indian country,
we think it ought to have been grrnted.
The 4th prayer, if not a repetiti n of the 3d, varies from
it only by omitting the words "including allthe waters of
the same;" consequently, the opinion which has been expressed on the third, is applicable to this.
The principle that a patent conveying lands. lying partly
within iand partly without the territory retained by the Indians, was void as to so mudh as lay within it and valid for.
the residue, was settled by this court in the case of Darnforth
vs. Wear(a). That decision was made pn a patent depending on the statutes of North Carolina, which contain, prohibitions at least as strong as those of Georgia.
The 5th prayer states, that the plaintiff moreover gave
evidence conducing to identify and prove certain corner
trees, station trees, and lines, of the said tract of land, granted to Bazil Jones aforesaid, before described, and including
all the lands on the north and.east side of the south fork of
the Oconee rivet, in the possession of the defendants. And
thereupon, the counsel for the said plaintiff moved the cofirt
to instruct the jury, that neither the want of the line and
station .trees required by any law, nor the omission of ihe
surveyor to note on his plat the, beginning corner, ror any'
mistake in platting the water courses, nor any fraud, irregularity, negligence, or ignorance of the officers ofgovernment,
prior to theissuing of the grant to Bazil Jones, under which
-

(a) 9 Wheaton' 67.

JANUARY .TERM 1829.
:[-Patterson vs. Jenks et aL]

-the plaintiff. derives title, did, or could, legally aflet theright of the plaintiff to recover; that the existence of the
grant is, in itself, a sufficient ground to inifer that every-pre-requisite has been performed; -and that. as to all irregularities, omissions, acts of fraud, negligence, or ignorance' -of
the -officers of government, prioi to'the emanation of the
grant, the government of Georgia, and not the plaintiff:
claiming unaer h6r grant, must bear the consequences resuiting from them; 'which. instruction, tlfe court,being divided in" pinioi, refused to -give.
This prayer is, in some of its parts, unexceptionabl e. In
others, it is, expressed. in such vague and general terms, as
to make it .unsafe for any court. to grant it. In the case of
Polk's lessee vs. Wendle(a), this court decided that .a grant
raises a pre'umption that every prerequisite has been performed; consequently, that no negligence oromission of the
offiders of government anterior to its. eman'ation can-affect,
it. The part of the prayer whi'ph respects the defects supposed to be in the plat, speaks of the want of the line and
station trees required by any" law, without- specifying the
laws alluded to, and, the omission of the surveyor to noie on
his plat.the beginning,.and of any mistake in plattingthe,
Water courses.
The act for opening the land office contains no particular
rules respecting plats; and the act which requires surveyors
'to note the beginining corner of their surveys, passed in.December 1789, long after the emanation of this patent. It
would seem that the officer hy whom the patent was issued7
Was the proper judge of all things apparent orr the face'of
the plat,, and that the patent itself presupposes .that the plat
'was sufficient in law as to those requisites of w.hich he could
judge by inspection. This part of the instruction might
have been given. "But it is. connected with a request that
the court would instruct-the jury that .no -fraud on the part
of the officers of goverriment.could affect the plaintiff's iitle .
It is not'easy. to pefceive the extent of this initructign ' and
it coul4 not, we think, have been safely given.
.(a) 9 (Janich, S"1. 5 W.eaton, 293.

SUPREME COuJ.T.'
[Patteisqn vs. Jenks et-al.]

The 6th exception states, thit the said plaintiff moreover
gave evidence conduci.ng to prove that th title of Bazil
Jones, the grantee of the.said land, had been regularly and
legally conveyed to the lessor of the plaintiff in this action,
before the commencement thereof and that all the lands in
the possession of the defendants, and of each of them, at the
time of the service of the process in this action, were within
the lines described by the said grant to the said Bazil Jones,
and were on the north and east side of th6 said south fork of
the Oconee river. And thereupon, the said counsel for the
plaintiff rroved the court to instruct the jury, that, upon the
afotesaid evidence, if the jury believed the same, the plain-.
tiff was, by law, entitled to recover-the premises in disputewhich instruction, the :court,- being divided in opinion, refused to give.
This prayer states more. ekplicitly therfacts contained in
-the 3d and 4th, and is understood.-to. come completely within
-the opinion of the court on them.
.It is the opinion of this'court that the circuit court erred
in, not instructing the jury that the grant under which the
plaintiff made title was valid as to the lands in. possession of
the defendants; and that for.refusing to give this instruction
the judgment of thesaid circuit court Qught to be reversed
and the cause remanded, that -avvenire facias de hovo may.,
be awarded.

