OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

damus, yet it is very questionable whether a case like the
present ought to be considered within that principle. It is a
correct principle between inferior and superior courts of the
same government, but difficult to be upheld between courts
established by separate governments. If necessary to decide
on this, it might require more grave consideration before sustaining it in cases like this, because being a mode of redress
very likely to lead to jealousies and collisions between the
States and General Government of a character anything but
desirable." The Jtsticesv. Murray, 9 Wall. 274, was a writ
of error to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of 1New
York from a judgment for a perenptory mandamus rendered
against the justices of the Supreme Court of New York for
the Third District to remove a cause, but Mr. Justice Nelson
stated in a note on page 276, that: "The alternative and peremptory mandamus against the Supreme Court of New York
was allowed by consent of the counsel for the defendants, with
a view to present the question raised and decided in the case.
The Circuit Court had refused to issue it against the court, and
issued it.only against the clerk. This is stated to prevent the
case from being cited as an authority for the power, and without intending to express any opinion on this subject." And
see Hough v. W'estern Tran&portation Company, 1 Bissell, 425,
Drummond, J. ; Fisk v. Union PaciioRailroad Company, 6
Blatchford, 362, Blatchford, J.; High on Extr. Remedies,
Third Edition, § 227 et.seq., and cases cited.
Leave to file petition denied.

NEW ORLEANS v. WARER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF AFPEALS FOR THE FIF
CIRCUIT.
No. 172. Argued March 13,1899. -Decided

November 18, 1899.

Following the decisions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, this court holds
that the drainage warrants of the city of New Orleans, in question in this
case, being neither bills of exchange, nor promissory notes, nor notes pay-

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
.Syllabus.
able to order or bearet, nor effects negotiable by indorsement or delivery,
are not included within the terms of Article "3540 of the Civil Code of
Louisiana, prescribing certain actions therein named; and are not prescribed by the statutes of that State.
The city of New Orleans, having voluntarily assumed the obligations of a
trustee with respect to the fund to be raised by the collection of drainage assessments, cannot set np the prescription contained in Article 3547
of the Code against an application which, as such trustee, it had undertaken and had failed to perform- the rule being well settled that, in an
action by a cestui que trust adjinst an express trustee, the statute of limitations has no application, and no length of time is a bar.
It is immaterial whether the assessments against the city itself for the drainage of public property were reduced to judgments or not: by reducing
its own claim to judgment, it neither ceased to be debtor nor trustee.
The judgment and decree in Peake v. New Orleans, 139 U. S. 342; cannot be
considered as a controlling authority in this case, the facts being different, as shown in the opinion of the court in this case; and it would be inequitable to permit the city to set up that decision as an excuse for its
failure to collect these assessments.
A judgment for taxes does not differ from any other judgment in respect
to its conclusiveness, and the city of New Orleans cannot, after the lapse
of more than twenty years, question its liability upon the judgments
against it for the amount of these assessments.
It was the intention of the amendment of 1874 to the constitution of
Louisiana, limiting the power of New Orleans to contract debts thereafter, to validate the issues of drainage warrants, some of which are
questioned in this suit, not only for the work done, but for the property
purchased by the city, in case it should elect to do the work itself.
The fact that the city chose in 1876 to pay for property which Van -Norden
bought from the Ship Canal Company in 1872 six times as much as he
then'paid for it, is one that cannot be considered here; as, from the
decision in Fletcherv. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, to the present time this court
has uniformly refused to inquire into the motives of legislative bodies.
The objection that the decree finds the city a debtor to the complainant in
the amount of the warrants is more apparent than real, since it also
declares that he is entitled to be paid out of the drainage assessments,
refers it to a master to state an account of such assessments, and provides
for an absolute decree against the city only if the fund established by the
accounting shall be sufficient, and for a pro rata decree if such fund be
not sufficient to pay all the warrant holders in full.
The liability of the city to pay interest was conditioned upon the presentation of the warrants and the indorsement upon them of the date of such
presentation; but the commencement of suit was a sufficient demand
to charge the defendant the interest from that day, at the rate specified
in the contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

THIs was a bill in equity filed November 26, 1894, in the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana by John
G. Warner, a citizen of the State of New York, on behalf of
himself and all other parties holding obligations of the same
nature and kind as himself, to charge the city of New Orleans
as the debtor of specific taxes, averred to have been levied by
lawful authority, for the payment of certain warrants issued
for the purchase of a drainage plant and franchise, the collection of which was made the duty of petitioner by statutes hereinafter set forth. A liability on the part of the city was
averred as a result of a contract alleged to have been broken
by it, and a disregard and violation of duties imposed upon it
by statute, as to the prosecution of the work of drainage, and
the collection of assessments therefor.
The facts of the case are so fully set forth in the cases of
Peake v. New Orleans, 139 U. S. 342, and Warner v. .New
Orleans, 167 U. S. 467, that a succinct statement of such facts,
taken largely from the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
is all that is deemed necessary here.
By an act approved March 18, 1858, the legislature of Louisiana provided for a system of draining certain lands within
the city of New Orleans and elsewhere, which was to be carried out by boards of commissioners appointed for the three
districts into which the territory was divided. The act further
provided for plans of the work to be prepared by the commissioners, for assessments to be levied upon the lands benefited,
and for the entry of judgments decreeing the lands to be subject to a lien for such amount as might be assessed.
By a supplemental act, approved March 17, 1859, the boards
of commissioners were authorized to borrow money to carry
on the work, and to issue bonds therefor. It was contemplated
that the money should be raised at once for the payment of
the work, in anticipation of the collection of the assessments.
By an act approved March 1, 1861, the prior acts were
amended by providing for a summary mode of collecting the
assessments, authorizing the commissioners to apply to certain
courts for the approval and homologation of the assessment
rolls,* which approval and homologation the act declared

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Statement of the Case.

"shall be a judgment against the property assessed and the
owners thereof, upon which execution may issue in the ordinary mode of proceeding."
The commissioners made plans of the work proposed to be
done, including therein the streets, squares and public places
within the several districts, as the property of the city of New
Orleans, and from time to time judgments were rendered charging these public places, as well as private property, with the
amounts that had been assessed for drainage purposes. The
city was named as the owner of these public places in the tableaux, and judgments were rendered against it as such owner
for sums amounting in the several districts to $719,926.63.
On February 24, 1871, the legislature passed an act entitled
"An act to provide for the drainage of New Orleans." This
act abolished the several boards of drainage commissioners,
transferred their assets to the Board of Administrators of
the city of New Orleans, subrogated this board to all the
rights, powers and facilities then possessed by the commissioners, directed it to collect the balance due on the assessments as shown by the books of the drainage districts, "which
said assessments are hereby confirmed and made exigible at
such time and in such manner as the Board of Administrators
may designate." It further authorized the Mvississippi and
Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company to undertake the work
of draining the city, required the Board of Administrators to
place all collections of drainage assessments to the credit of
such company and hold the same as a fund to be applied to
the drainage of New Orleans and Carrollton. Under these
and the prior acts, assessments were made and reduced to
judgment against the city on the area of the streets and other
public places within the drainage districts, to the amount of
$696,349.30, and against private persons to the amount of
$1,003,342.98, of which about $330,000 have been collected
from private property in cash and drainage warrants, leaving
outstanding at the date of the filing of the bill in this case uncollected assessments to the amount of $1,469,714.47, of which
the city owes $696,349.30.
By an act passed February 24, 1876, after more than two

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

thirds of the drainage system had been completed, the city of
lNew Orleans was authorized to purchase, if the common council deemed it advisable, the property and franchises of the
Ship Canal Company or its transferee, including all tools, implements, machines, boats and apparatus belonging to said
company or its transferee, on a valuation to be fixed by appraisers to be appointed by the common council,'the amount
to be paid in warrants dragon against the drainage assessments. It further provided that the city should have exclusive control of all the powers and franchises granted to the
Ship Canal Company, and should alqne have the power to do
all the drainage work required to be paid for by assessment
upon property or from the. city treasury. Meantime, however, the Ship Canal Company, having become embarrassed,
on May 22,' 1872, assigned all its rights to Warren Van
Norden.
Acting under the authority of this act of February 24, 1876,
the city accepted the option, appointed an appraiser of the
property of the Ship Canal Company, and authorized the
mayor to purchase of said company, or its transferee, all its
property, and to stipulate for a full settlement of all its claims
for damages. Thereupon the mayor entered into a contract
.with the Canal Company and with Van Norden, its transferee,
for the purchase of their property and the relinquishment of
all their claims for damages, for the sum of $300,000, payable
in drainage warrants. In this contract of sale the city covenanted and agreed "that the existing rights and powers of
the holders of drainage warradts, under the civil acts of the
legislature of this State relative to drainage and drainage asse$sments, shall remain unimpaired, and that the drainage tax
and assessment shall be administered, collected and paid" in
the manner and under certain terms specified, and that "the
collection of drainage assessments shall be assigned to an officer, who shall be selected by the said W. Van Korden and be
confirmed by the city council." The city further agreed "not
to obstruct or impede, but, on the contrary, to facilitate, by
all lawful mea's,"the collection of the drainage assessments
as provided by law, until said warrants have been fully paid,

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
'Statement of the Case.

it being well understood by and between the said parties
hereto .that collections of drainage assessments shall not be
diverted from the liquidation of said warrants and expenses
as hereinabove provided for, under any pretext whatsoever,
until the full and final payment of the same."
The bill, after reciting these facts, averred in substance that
upon acquiring the drainage plant and franchises of the canal
company the city abandoned all drainage work and suffered
the dredge boats and machinery purchased as above stated to
decay and become valueless, and that, by reason of the city's
failure to complete the diainage and benefit the lands, the
courts have refused to enforce the collection of the assessments; that, having thus abandoned all drainage work, the
city, by its ordinances and by a proclamation of the mayor,
then advised property holders not to pay the assessments, and
that, in consequence of these ordinances and said proclamation
and the decisions of the courts, the drainage assessments became practically valueless and uncollectible. The bill further
*averred that the city had issued bonds in exchange for drainage warrants given for work done prior to the sale, under the
authority of the act of the legislature of 1872, to an amount
in excess of all the drainage assessments, which it will claim
operated as a discharge of its liability, as assessee of the
streets, etc., and of all liability it may have incurred by any
dereliction of duty in regard to the assessments against private
property, but that this claim was not made known to Van
Norden at the time of the purchase, and that he would not
have parted with his property for a consideration payable out
of drainage assessments, if he had known that such clairii
would be set up to defeat the payment of the price. The bill
closed with a prayer for an accounting of the drainage fund,
including the amounts due by the city and the application
thereof to the payment of the complainant's warrants and
those held by others similarly situated who might come in
and avail themselves of the benefits of the bill.
To this bill the defendant demurred for want of jurisdiction
and of equity, and because the matters sought to be litigated
had been decided adversely to complainant's pretensions by

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

the Circuit Court in the case of .Peake v. New Orleans, and
by the Supreme Court on appeal in the same case, 139 U. S.
342. This demurrer was sustained, the bill dismissed by the
Circuit Court, and the case carried to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. That court, being in doubt as
to the application of the .Peake case, certified to this court the
questions: First, whether the city, under the warranties, expressed and implied, contained in the contract of sale of June
7, 1876, by which it acquired the property and franchise from
Warren Van lNorden, was estopped from pleading against the
complainant the issuance of bonds to retire $1,672,105.21 of
drainage warrants, issued prior to said sale, as a discharge of
its obligation to account for drainage funds collected on private property, and as a discharge of its own liability to that
fund as assessee of the streets and squares; and, second,
whether the decision in Peake v. New Orleans should be
held to apply to the facts of this case and operate to defeat
complainant's action.
The first of these questions this court answered in the affirmative; the second it declined to answer. Warner v. Nvew
Orleans, 167 U. S. 467.
Thereupon the Court of Appeals held that the city was
estopped from pleading the issue of the bonds, and that the
Peace case did not necessarily apply to the facts of this case,
nor operate to defeat the plaintiff's action. The decree of the
Circuit Court sustaining the demurrer was reversed, and the
case remanded with instructions to proceed to a decision upon
the merits. 52 U. S. App. 348.
The case subsequently went to a hearing upon the pleadings and proofs in the Circuit Court, and resulted in a decree
dismissing the bill. Thereupon an appeal was taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed the decree of the
Circuit Court and remanded the case to that court with directions to enter a decree that the city was indebted to Warner
in $6000 with eight per cent interest from June 6, 1876, to
be paid out of the drainage assessments set forth in the bill;
that such assessments, including those against the city, as the
owner of its streets and squares, constituted a trust fund in

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

the hands of the city for the purpose of paying complainant
and other holders of the same class of warrants, and that the
case be referred to a master to state an account. Whereupon
the city applied for and obtained a writ of certiorari from
this court.
.Mr. Branch K .Miller for the city of New Orleans.
Samuel f. Gilmore was on his brief.

-r.

.Mr. Wheeler H. Peckham, for Warner. .Xr. Richard .De
Gray filed a brief for same. Mr. J. -0. Rouse and .Mr, William Grant also filed a brief for same.
MR. JusTicE. BRowx, after making the above Statement of
the Case, delivered the opinioi of the court.

Nineteen assignments of error were filed in this case, but
we shall only notice such as were pressed upon our attention
in the oral arguments or in the briefs of counsel.
1. That this suit was, at the institution thereof, prescribed
by the statutes of Louisiana. In this connection reference is
made to Articles 3540,'3544 and 3547 of the Civil Code.
Article 3540 provides that "actions on bills of. exchange,
notes payable to order or bearer, except bank notes, those on
all effects negotiable or transferable by indorsement or delivery, and those on all promissory notes, whether negotiable
or otherwise, are prescribed by five years," etc. Even though
it could be assumed in this case that this bill was an "action
on" these drainage warrants, we think they do not fall within
the description of either of the instruments specified in Article
3540. These warrants are in the form of an order, drawn
by the Administrator of Accounts upon the Aministrator of
Finance, directing him to pay to the order of W. Van
Norden, transferee of the Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship
Canal Company, a certain amount Isout of any funds in the
city treasury to the credit of said bompaiiy." They also contain the following memorandum: "This warrant is issued in
accordance with the provisions of Act 30 of the session of the
General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, held in the year

OCTOBER TERM:, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

1871, and the Administrator of, Finance, on presentation to
him of this warrant, will pay the same in cash, in case there
be any funds in the city treasury to the credit of the said
Mississippi and Mexican Gulf Ship Canal Company; but
should there not be sufficient funds to cash this warrant
then the Administrator of Finance is required to indorse
upon the same the date of its presentation, and this warrant
shall bear interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum
from and after the date of such presentation and indorsement
until paid."
This instrument is neither a bill of exchange, a promissory
note, a note payable to order or bearer, nor an effect negotiable by indorsement or delivery. The construction given to
Article 3540 b5y the Supreme Court of Louisiana confiuies it to
unconditional promises to pay a fixed sum of money on a day
aw
certain, whether the obligation be negotiable unctr tmerchant or not. Conditional obligations which lack these
essential characteristics do not come within its provisions.
Baird v. Livingston, 1 Rob. (La.) 182; Bank of Louisiana v.
Williams, 21 La. Ann. 121; Thomjson v. Simmons, 22 La.
Ann. 450; fouett v. Erwvin, 9 La. Ann. 231; Gasquet v. Directors, 45 La. Ann. 312; Zing Iron Bridge Co. v. Otoe County,
1241U. S.459.
As these warrants were not only payable out of a particular
fund to the credit of the Canal Company, but were only payable when there were -funds to the credit of such company,
we think it entirely clear that they are not included within
the terms of Article 3540.
We are also referred to Article 3544, prescribing, "in general, all personal actions, except those before enumerated," by
ten years, and to Article 3547, which enacts that "all judgments for money, whether rendered within or without the
State, shall be prescribed by the lapse of ten years from the
rendition of such judgments. Provided, however, that any
party interested in any judgment may have the same revived
at any time before it is prescribed," etc., in which case it
"shall continue in full force for ten years from the date of
the order of court reviving, the same." This latter article is

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

supposed to be applicable to the homologation of the several
assessment rolls against the city as well as against private
parties, which, Under the act of TfMarch 1, 1861, were declared
to be judgments against the property assessed.and the owners
theeof, upon which execution might issue in the ordinary
mode of proceeding. These homologations or .judgments
.were rendered at the suit of the commissioners of the drainage district, or the city itself, at various times from 1861 to
1875.
But we think a decisive answer to the argument upon both
these articles is found in the contract of June 7,1876, wherein
the city purchased of Van lNorden the drainage plant, andcontracted "not to obstruct or impede, but, on the contrary,
to facilitate, by all lawful means, the collection of the drainage assessments as provided by law until said warrants have
been. fully paid, it being well understood and agreed by said
parties thereto that*collections of drainage assessments shall
not be diverted from the liquidation of said warrants and
expenses as herein above provided for, under any pretext
whatsoever, until full and final payment of the same." In
respect to this we adhere to the opinion pronounced by us
when this case was first before this court, that the city in
respect to this puarchase acted voluntarily; that it was not, as
bad been held in the former case of Peake v. New Orleans,
139 IT. S. 342, with respect to other warrants, a compulsory
trustee, but a voluntary contractor; *that as the fund was to
be partly created by the performance by the city of a statutory duty, it could not deliberately abandon that duty, or take
active steps to prevent the fuither creation of the fund, and
then plead a prior issue of bonds as a reason for evading liability upon the warrants. As the city had paid for the property in warrants drawn upon a particular fund, it was under
an implied obligation to do whatever was reasonable and fair
to make that fund good. Certainly it could not so act as to
prevent the fund being made good, and then require the
vendor to look to the fund and not to itself. The duty of
the city to collect these assessments was affirmed in State
ex rel. 'Fan Norden v. The .ayor etc., 27 La. Ann, 49.. $eo
VOL. CLXXV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

also Cumming v. The ,Mayor, 11 Faige, 696; Atchison v.
Byrnes, 22 Kansas, 65.
Having thus voluntarily assumed the obligations of a trustee
with respect to this fund, it cannot now set up the statute of
limitations against an obligation, which, as such trustee, it had
undertaken and failed to perform. The rule is well settled
that in actions by cestuis qui trust against an express trustee,
the statute of limitations has no application, and no length of
time is a bar. While that relation continues, and until a distinct repudiation of the trust by the trustee, the possession of
one is the possession of the other, and there is no adverse relation between them. Perry on Trusts, § 863. In Oliver v.
Piatt,3 How. 333, 411, it is said that "the mere lapse of time
constitutes of itself no bar to the enforcement of a subsisting trust; and time begins to run against a trust only from
the time when it is openly disavowed by the trustee, who
insists upon an adverse right and interest, which is fully and
unequivocally made known to the cestui que trust." To set
the statute in motion the relation of the parties must be hostile, and so long as their interests are common, or their relations fiduciary, as in the case of landlord and tenant, guardian
and ward, vendor and vendee, tenants in common, or trustee
and cestuis gui trust, the statute does not begin to run.
ZeZler's Iessee v. Eckert, 4 How. 289; Seymour v. Freer, 8
Wall. 202; Iewis v. Hawkins, 23 Wall. 119. This doctrine
has been applied in Louisiana in favor of an administratrix
having claims against the estate, in which it is held that, as
she cannot sue the' estate, the statute will not run against her
on her claims against the estate, so long as she is administratrix. Succession of Farmer, 32 La. Ann. 1037; .fc.night
v. Calhoun, 36 La. Ann. 408. A like ruling was made with
respect to taxes levied for a particular purpose, as to which the
city was held to be a trustee, in School Directors v. Sitreve_port, 47 La. Ann. 1310.
This trust has never been repudiated by the city. In fact,
one of the defences set up in the answer was that the city had
applied itself with great diligence, and to the full extent of its
ability, to improve and make serviceable the drainage work

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

and to proceed with the collection of drainage taxes, and did
all in its power to prosecute the collection of the same, extending the drainage work on its regular tax bills, which were
asserted and claimed in every account filed in the courts by
Administrators, executors, syndics and other persons exercising
like authority. By these modes and others, collections were
made and accounted for. Indeed, the whole .gist of the answer is that the city has executed its trust faithfully, so far.
as it was possible to do so, by collecting assessments against
private persons, but has not accounted for taxes assessed
against itself, because it is not legally responsible therefor.
There is no claim throughout the answer that the city disavowed the trust.
At the time the assessment rolls were homologated and the
judgments against the city were rendered, there was no claim
made that the city was not responsible, or that the public
grounds, streets and squares were not assessable for these improvements; and in so far as the collection of these judgments
is concerned, the city stood in the same relation of trustee to
the warrant holders which it did with respect to the assessments upon private property.
The argument that the city repudiated its trust by the abandonment of the work of drainage in 1876, is untenable. Indeed, by the very act of February 24, 1876, under which the
city was authorized to purchase the Canal Company's plant,
the city was given exclusive control of all the rights, powers
and franchises formerly invested in the Canal Company, and
authorized to do all the drainage work required to be paid
for by assessments upon property, or from the city treasury.
What was this purchase made for if not to continue the drainage work . It can scarcely be supposed that the city purchased this plant with a view of discontinuing such work. If
it were abandoned at that time it might readily be supposed
that such abandonment was temporary, and that the purchase
was made in good faith, and for the purpose for which it
should have been purchased, namely, the prosecution of tho
work.
We deem it entirely immaterial whether the assessments

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

against the city for the drainage of puDOiCproperty wer& reduced to judgments or not. When put in this forrh they"were
none the less obligations' of the city :- debts which it owed to
the drainage fund-was, bound to treat as assets collected, and
such as were held by it as trustee for the benefit, of the -warrant holders. Perry on Trusts, § 440; Stevens v. Gaylord, 11
Mass. 256 ; Sigourney v. lWetherel, 6 Met. (Mass.) 553, 557; Leland v, Felton, 1 Allen, 531, 533. The debts of private owners
it agreed to use due diligence to collect, and as to these it was
a trustee. Its own debts it was bound to pay, and as to these
it was equally a'trustee. By reducing its own claim to judgment it neither ceased to be debtor nor trustee.
2. A defence of res adjudicata, not noticed by the court
below, is set up as arising from the decree of the Circuit Court,
affirmed by this court in the case of Peae v. INew Orleans,
139 U. S. 342. This plea is based upon the fact that in that.
case one James Jackson appeared by intervening petition as
the holder of eight purchase warrants, identical in character
with those sued upon by the complainant -part of those given
in pay.inent of the purchase price of the drainage plant from
the Canal Company and Van Korden; that the decree in the
Peake case was a dismissal of complainant's bill and of all
intervening petitions, and that the decree upon the warrants
sued upon by Jackson was decisive of- the whole series of pur.-chase warrants. It is a sufficient reply to this .plea to say
that the complainant Warner was neither a party nor a privy
to this litigation, and that the decree was binding only upon
Peake and such bthers as actually intervened. Hook v. Payne,
14 Wall. 252. Indeed, the attempt to identify these warrants
with those which were made the basis of Jackson's intervention was evidently an afterthought, as the city in its answer,
while setting up the decree in the Peake case, makes no mention whatever of the intervening petition of Jackson* and relies upon the final decree of this court, 139 U. S. 342, which
turns only upon defences applicable' to the Peake claim.
But the case so far from being res adjudicata of. this is not
even a decisive authority. The complainant Peake was a
holder of warrants issued to-the Mississippi and Mexican Gulf

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

Ship Canal Company under the act of February 24, 1871,
which authorized the Canal Company to undertake the drainage work, required the boards of drainage commissioners to
transfer to the Board of Administrators all their assets, and
required the latter to collect the drainage assessments and
place them to the credit of the Canal Company. This court
held that, under this act, the city, though a trustee, was a
compulsory trustee and its obligations strictly statutory - such
as placed upon the city only a limited responsibility for that
which the Board of Administrators might do or omit to do;
that it had been denuded by the legislature of all freedom of
action; that it had no choice of contractor or price; that
neither the property to be taxed nor the means or method of
collecting its assessments were intrusted to its discretion, and
that by providing an officer for the collection of the assessments it had discharged its duty in that particular. In the
intervening petition of Jackson he avers that he is the holder
o f eight warrants, similar to those described in the bill of
Peake, upon which he had obtained judgment and it is only
by looking at the original petition on the law side of the court
that it appears that these warrants were issued in favor of
Van Korden, transferee of the Ship Canal Company, and that
they were indorsed by him. They were evidently treated by
this court as standing upon. the same footing as the Peake
warrants. But however this may be, the whole opinion of
this court is based upon the Peake warrants, which, as before
said, were not purchase warrants at all, and no allusion is
made in that opinion to the Jackson intervention.
In the case under consideration the complainant bases his
suit upon $6000 of warrants given for the purchase of the
drainage plant. The obligations of the city with respect to:
these are measured, not by the act of 1871, but by the act of
February 24, 1876, authorizing such purchase, and by the
contract of sale, wherein the city agrees to facilitate by all
lawful means the collection of the drainage assessments, and
to apply the same to the liquidation of these warrants. In
respect to these warrants we held, when this case was first
before this court, 167 U. S. 467, 477,that the city &cted vol-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

untarily; that it was not, in reference to these warrants, as it
was to those in the Peake case, a compulsory trustee, but a
voluntary contractor; and that it could not, when purchasing
property and contracting to pay for it out of a particular fund,
and issuing warrants therefor payable out of .such fund, deliberately abandon that duty, take steps to prevent the further
creation of the fund, and plead in defence to a liability on the
warrants that it had, prior to the purchase, paid off obligations
theretofore created against the fund.
For these reasons we hold that there is not only no room
for a plea of r'es adjudicaa,but that the Peake case is not to
be considered as a controlling authority.,
' 3. The gravamen of the bill is that, after the purchase of
the drainage plant, the city became possessed of the sole
power of completing the system of drainage, that it became
its duty to do so or to establish some other system; but that
from the very date of the purchase the city ceased all work,
sold some of the boats and machinery purchased, diverted the
proceeds of taxes to other purposes than that of the payment
of drainage warrants, allowed other boats to rot and sink, and
also permitted the canal dug by the company to fill up with
sediment. Further, that the city did nothing to enforce payment and collection of the drainage taxes, but adopted an
ordinance advising drainage taxpayers not to pay, whereby,
by reason of her conduct in abandoning her system of drainage, the Supreme Court of Louisiana in .Davidsonb v. New
Orleans, 34: La. Ann. 170, decided that such taxes could not
be enforced and collected. That by this and other means it
destroyed the drainage fund, until now the same has become
unenforceable and worthless to the holders of the warrants.
In this connection the city averred in its answer that it had
performed its full duty in relation to the collection of assessments
against private property, but admits that the proclamation referred to in the bill advising property owners not to pay drainage assessments was issued by the mayor under authority of an
ordinance of the city. It further alleged that the drainage plans
made by the Canal Company were so defective that their
completion would have been of no benefit to the property

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

attempted to be drained; that the work done under them was
also defective and of no value, and that for these reasons the
city was justified in suspending the further prosecution of the
work, which resulted in the decision of the Supreme Court in
the case of Davidson v. The City of N3ew Orleans, 34 La.
Ann. 170, declaring judgments for drainage assessments void
for failure of consideration, and that this decision had become
the settled rule of law in the State, rendering further collections impossible; but that, notwithstanding this decision, the
city had constantly and at all times endeavored in every way
possible to realize the assessments; and the city filed an account showing the collections made in 1871 to June 20, 1891,
inclusive, and the disposition thereof, as a sufficient compliance
with its duty as trustee. The answer further set up and pleaded
that the city had discharged itself from all liability for drainage taxes which it had collected, or ought to have collected,
for the benefit of the warrant holders, by the issue and delivery of bonds to the amount of $1,672,105.21 to take up drainage warrants issued' under the act of 1871, all of which were
used and applied at various times between May 10, 1872, and
December 31, 1874, to the redemption of drainage warrants.
That the city is estopped to plead the issue of bonds as a
discharge of its obligation to the holders of these purchase
warrants, was settled upon the prior hearing of this case.
Warner v. New Orleans, 167 U. S. 467, 477. In this connection e said: "That one who purchases property, contracting
to pay for it out of a particular fund, and issues warrants
therefor payable out of that fund - a fund yet partially to be
created, and created by the performance by him of a statutory
duty-cannot deliberately abandon that duty, take active steps
to prevent the further creation of the fund, and then, there
being nothing in the fund, plead in defence to a liability on
the warrants drawn on that fund, that it had prior to the purchase paid off obligations theretofore created against the fund."
Prior to the purchase of the Ship Canal Company's plant
from Van lorden, the legality of these drainage assessments
had been affirmed by the Supreme Court of Louisiana. In the'
matter of the Commissioners of. the First DrainingDistrict,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

27 La. Ann. 20. This was a proceeding by the City Board of
Commissioners praying for the homologation of certain assessment rolls for drainage taxes, to which opposition was made
upon different grounds. The court, however, sustained the
assessments, and, in the opinion, remarked that "the State in
ordering the draining, is exercising sovereign power, and can,
of course, direct or authorize the work to be done in such way
and compensation made on such terms as in its discretion may
seem best, restrained only by the fundamental principles upon
which the government is to be conducted, and we find nothing in them inhibiting the State from having the means provided for such a work, in the way it is done in the present
system of drainage in the city of New Orleans. On this question we see no room for judicial interference with the discretion of the State, and we think the existing laws authorize the
collection sought herein to be enforced." So far then, as the
law is concerned, there would seem to have been no doubt of
the validity of these assessments, had the city continued the
work and lived up to the obligations of its contract with Van
Norden.
With reference to its alleged neglect in this particular the
Court of Appeals fouhd that all the facts averred in the bill
had either been admitted by the answer, or abundantly established by evidence. When the city purchased the drainage
plant it seems to have been in good condition, and although
the work had been about two thirds completed, the city not
only abandoned the work but proceeded to disqualify itself
from undertaking it. In April, 1878, an ordinance was adopted
instructing the Administrator to advertise the dredge boats
for sale. Although this does not seem to have been carried
out, another ordinance was adopted" in July requiring three
boats, which were then in bad condition, to be broken up and
the material stored. Subsequently, and in April, 1881, the
mayor was authorized to issue and did issue a proclamation
advising the people not to pay their drainage taxes until the
question was decided by the Supreme Court, although the
validity of these taxes had been determined in the case above
cited. This expected decision was delivered in March, 1882,

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

in the case of Davidson v. City of New Orleans, 34 La. Ann.
170, in which the court found that, owing to the fact that
plaintiff derived no benefit from the contemplated drainage,
the abandonment of all drainage work, the disposal of all
drainage apparatus, the impotency of the city to resume the
enterprise, and the fact that the property assessed was worth
but one tenth of the amount claimed, the taxes could not be
collected. The prior case was cited, and the decision put
upon the ground that "causes, occurring subsequently to the
rendition of judgments, may render their execution illegal and
inequitable, and violative of rights not within the contemplation of the court when the judgment was rendered, and not
intended to be foreclosed thereby, . . . Here would be a
failure of the only possible consideration of such judgments,
and it could not be doubted that such failure would furnish
just ground to enjoin their execution." But the court did not
hold that the city itself could set up this defence
its own
dereliction of duty.
We do not appreciate the equity of now permitting the
city to set up this decision as an excuse for its failure to collect these assessments, since the decision itself is based upon
the fact that the city had been derelict in abandoning the
work, and failing to carry out in good faith its contract with
Van Norden. The Court of Appeals further found that, so
far as the answer attempted to fasten the responsibility for
the alleged defects in the drainage plant upon Vrhn Korden,
its transferee, as a defence to this action, it was entirely unsupported by "the evidence, as counsel for the city very frankly
admitted in their argument at -the hearing. Under the act
of February 24, 1871, authorizing the Ship Canal Company
to undertake the work, power was reserved to the City Board
of Adihinistrators to designate the location of the canals and
levees to be built by the company, subject to certain specifications provided by the act, to build and run all the pumps
and drainage machinery necessary to lift the water from the
canals into Lake Pontchartrain, and to keep the water in the
canals at the proper level for the work of excavation, and at
the same time assist the drainage of the adjacent lainds. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

was further made the duty of the City Surveyor to examine
the work each month, certify to the Administrators of Accounts
the number of cubic yards excavated and the number of yards
of levees built, for which warrants were to be drawn upon the
Administrators of Finance, and to be paid from the funds to
the credit of the Canal Company. In fact, the city by ordinance located these canals, put the matter in charge of the
Administrator of Improvements, and, through its officers,
exercised supervision over the work. The testimony is that
it was done strictly in accordance with the specifications furnished. If, as testified, it was not sufficiently extensive to
meet the requirements of the city, or the plant was in any
respect defective, such faults were due to the city itself, rather
than to the contractors. In this connection the conclusion of
the Court of Appeals was that the plan under which the work
was done by the Canal Company and its transferee would, if
carried out as contemplated, have sufficiently accomplished
the drainage of the lands within the several districts to render the assessments available, if the city had kept the work in
a serviceable condition, as the law required. Indeed, the fact
that the city had abandoned the work, and, so far from facilitating by all lawful moans the collection of the drainage assessments as provided by law, not only did nothing in this direction,
but advised the taxpayers not to pay such assessments, is really
too clear for argument.
4. If the city be not estopped, by consenting to the homologation of the assessment rolls - in other words, consenting to
the judgments against itself - to question its liability for the
assessments upon its streets, squares and other public places, or
by drawing these warrants against the drainage fund, we
think the validity of those assessments sufficiently appears
from the opinions of the Supreme Court of Louisiana sustaining similar assessments upon public property. The argument
is that public property, being exempt from taxation, is also
exempt from these assessments; but the authorities have long
recognized a distinction between general taxes, which are for
the benefit of the public generally, and which in the nature
of things the public must directly or indirectly pay, and spe-

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

cial assessments for the benefit of particular property, which
are a charge upon the property benefited. If this be private
property, then each owner of such property pays his share; if
it be public property, the city pays it as the agent of the entire
body of its citizens, who are assumed to have been benefited to
that extent. Chiarnock v. Levee Co., 38 La. Ann. 323.
This was apparently the view taken by the Supreme Court
of Louisiana'in the case of The New Qrleans Draining Co.,
11 La. Ann. 338, 377, in which it is said of similar assessments
that "the large portion of the expenses which, by this view,
is thrown upon the city for the streets, meets in some measure
that equity which has been urged upon our consideration,
that as this work has been undertaken for the public good,
the public ought to bear the charge of it, notwithstanding the
benefit of it to the ownei's of the soil."
In ]_farquez v. City of New Orleans, 13 La. Ann. 319,-property owners upon a certain street refused to pay more than
one half of their assessments for paving, upon the ground that
th6 city owned a promenade located in the centfe of the street
opposite the paved road. It was held that the city should pay
one half of the entire cost of paving, upon the ground of its
ownership of this public ground. This case was subsequently
approved in the similar case of 6orrejolles v. Succession of
Foucher, 26 La. Ann. 362, and in Barber Asphalt Paving Co.
v. Gogreve, 41 La. Ann. 251, 259.
In the County of JfEoean.v. Bloomington, 106 llinois, 209,
it, was also claimed that public property, being expressly exempt from taxes, was also exempt from special assessments.
But, said the court, "we have been too long and too firmly
committed to the doctrine that exemption from taxation does
not except from special assessments to now admit that it is
even debatable.

.

.

.

The distinction between taxation

and special assessment is also clearly made in our present constitution, and while providing that the General Assembly may
exempt the property of the State, counties and municipal corporations from the former, section 3 makes no provision-in regard Wothe latter, but, on the contrary,

.

.

.

authorizes

the General Assembly to vest the corporate authority of cities,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

towns and villages with power to make local improvements by
special assessments without any restriction as to the property
to be assessed." This ruling was followed in Adams County
v. Quincy, 130 Illinois, 566; Beach on Pub. Corps. § 1172.
The rule is different in Massachusetts, Worcester County v.
Worcester, 116 Mass. 193, and perhaps also in Connecticut,
State v. Hatford, 50 Conn. 89; but as this is a question of
local law, we are bound by the Louisiana cases.
There is nothing in the several statutes of Louisiana upon
the subject which indicate that private property only was intended to be affected. It is true that by the act of 1858, § 7,
the District Court is empowered to decree that each portion
of the property situated within the draining limits is subject
to a first mortgage, lien and privilege in favor of the Board
of Commissioners for such amount as should be assessed upon
such property for its proportion of the cost of th~e draining;
and that this was obviously intended not to apply to public
property. But while it is doubtless true that public property
was not intended to be chargeable with a lien under which it
might be sold and title pass to private parties, it by no means
follows that the city is not liable, and that in such cases the
amount should not be paid out of the treasury. Adams
County v. Quincy, 130 Illinois, 566. Indeed, something of
this kind seems to have been contemplated in the act of February 24, 1876, § 4, where the city was given the power of
doing all the drainage work "required to be paid for by assessments upon property, or from the city treasury." This
would seem to contemplate that the drainage work applicable
to public property was to be paid for by the public out of the
municipal treasury. Indeed, it is improbable that, if the cost
of draining the streets and public squares was to be included
in the proportion which each parcel of private property was
to contribute as its share of the expense, no mention .was
made of this or of the manner in which the liability of each
private owner for his proportion of the expense of draining the
public property was to be ascertained. That the city was itself
liable was evidently the view taken by the city officers when
the assessment rolls were homologated.

NEW ORLEANS

v. WARNER.

Opinion of the Court.

One thing in this connection is certain. No general system
of drainage could. be established that did not include streets
and public squares as a part of the territory to be drained.
Assuming that no provision was made as to bow the proportion applicable to public property was to be assessed and paid
for, but that elaborate provision was made for the assessment
of private property for its proportion of such expense, and for
the creation of a lien therefor, enforceable by the courts, what
follows? That private property was to be assessed for its
contributory portion of a public expense? Not at all. Private
owners may be assumed to be interested in draining their own
property, but in the absence of a special provision to that
effect there is no presumption that they are also to be called
upon to pay that which primafacie belongs to the public.
Indeed, in view of a recent decision in Massachusetts, it may
well be doubted whether the legislature could impose the cost
of draining public property upon private lot owiters. Sears v.
Street Comrs., 53 N. E. Rep. 876. The expense of keeping
streets in order is a public charge, and the same may be said
of all other expenses which are for the benefit of the public.
It is true that the expense of paving may be assessed upon
the adjdining property upon the theory that such property is
specially benefited by the improvement, but a special provision
is necessary to create such charge.
As the Boards of Drainage Commissioners assessed the city
for the expense of draining its public property, and the legislature approved all these assessments in the act of February
24, 1871, and the city subsequently assented to the homologation of these assessment rolls, except in the first district, and
to judgments against itself for the amount of the assessments,
it is difficult to see upon what principle it can now after a
lapse of more than twenty years raise the question of its liability. We know of no reason why these judgments should not
be treated as conclusive. A judgment for taxes does not
differ from any other in respect to its conclusiveness. United
States v. JNew Orleans, 98 U. S. 381; .Driggers v. Cassady, 71
Alabama, 529, 533; Cadmus v. JeTacson, 52 Penn. St. 295 ; Freeman on Judgments, § 135; -Mayo v. Foley, 40 California, 281;

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Anderson v. Rider, 46 California, 134; Stans v. Hadnot, 42
La. Ann. 366.
5. The only other assignment of error we are required to
'notice is that the court erred in holding that the constitutional
amendment of 187 (Laws of 1874, page 56, Joint Resolution
No. 22), limiting the power of the city of New Orleans to contract debts, was not a complete defence to this suit. This
amendment is as follows:
"The city of, New Orleans shall not hereafter increase her
(its) debt in any manner or form or under any pretext. After
the first of January, 1875, no evidence of indebtedness or warrant for the payment of money shall be issued by any officer
of said city except against cash actually in the treasury; but
this shall not be so construed as to prevent . . . the issue
of drainage warrants to the transferee of contract under act
No. 30 of 1871, payable only from drainage taxes, and not
otherwise."
The argument is that the act of February 24, 1876, authorizing the purchase by the State of the drainage plant and franchise, is null and void, because it had the effect of increasing
the debt of the city in violation of the supposed prohibition
contained in said constitutional amendment of 1874.
At the time this amendment was adopted, the act of February 24, 1871, which provides for the drainage of New Orleans,
was in force. This act authorized the Ship Canal Company
to undertake the drainage of the city under the general direction of the Board of Administrators, and to provide funds
for the payment of the work, directed the Boards of Drainage
Commissioners to turn over to the Board of Administrators
"all moneys, assessments and claims of drainage in their
hands," including all judgments iii favor of the commissioners, authorized the Board of Administrators to collect
from the holders of property within the draining districts the
balance due on the assessments, as shown by the books,
"which said assessments are hereby confirmed and made exigible, at such time and in such manner as the Board of Administrators may designate; provided, that the said board
shall collect the said assessments herein authorized in time to

NEW ORLEANS v. WARER.

143-

Opinion of the Court.

provide for the payment of the warrants to be issued to the
said company at the date of their issue," and place all collections to the credit of the Canal Company for the drainage of
the city. The Ship Canal Company, having become embarrassed by the want of funds in the city treasury to pay the
drainage warrants, on May 22, 1872, made a contract with
Van Norden, by which he agreed to advance to the Canal
Company $150,000 to meet the expenses of doing the work,
upon condition of being reimbursed out of the warrants and
money which might be obtained from the city of New Orleans, and to secure the same the company assigned to him
all moneys, profits and benefits that were to be realized by
the execution of the work, as well as all certificates and warrants to be received, with authority to collect them. Subsequently, and on November 22, 1872, the company assigned
all its property to Van Korden, acknowledging an indebtedness of $161,962.86 for moneys advanced. At the time the
constitutional amendment went into effect the work was
being carried on by Van Norden under the above contracts
with the Ship Canal Company.
The assessments, both against the city and individuals,
which constitute the debt from which the warrants are to be
paid, were all in existence long prior to -this amendment, and
were reduced to judgments at sundry times from 1861 to 1873.
It seems, however, that the city concluded to do this work itself, and applied to the legislature for authority to purchase
of Van Korden his drainage plant and to undertake itself to
do the drainage work. This authority was granted by the
act of February 21, 1876, under which the contract was made
with Van Norden to purchase the plant, and to pay therefor
the sum of $300,000 in drainage warrants as a consideration
for the property, and also in full settlement of all claims for
damages which the Canal Company or Van Korden had
against the city. To provide for the payment of these warrants the city agreed that the rights of the holders of such
warrants should remain unimpaired, and that the drainage
taxes should be administered and paid under certain conditions, and their collection assigned to an officer to be selected

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

by Van Norden, - the city agreeing, as heretofore stated, to
put no obstacle in the way of such collections.
We think it was the intention of the constitutional amendment to 'validate the issue of the drainage warrants to the
transferee of the contract, not only for the work done but for
the property purchased by the city, in case it should elect to
do the work itself. The act of 1876 did not so much authorize an increase of the city's debt as a diversion of the warrants
to the purchase of the drainage plant instead of a payment
to the transferee for work done. We think the amendment
should receive a construction commensurate with the object
intended to be accomplished, namely, the drainage of the city,
whether such drainage were carried out by Van Norden or by
the city itself, and that it should not be limited to such warrants as were to be issued for the work. The debt for the assessments had already been incurred and put in judgment, and
the amendment was intended to recognize the existence of
such debt, and to provide that the warrants issued in payment
of the same should not be treated as within the scope of the
amendment. Beyond this, however, these warrants were to
be issued not only in payment of the drainage plant but in
settlement of Van INorden's claims against the city for damages connected with the failure of the city to carry out
its contract with the Canal Company and Van Norden,
which, in view of the fact that the drainage plant had been
purchased by him for $50,000, may be assumed to have been
the greater part of the consideration.
Indeed, it is open to serious consideration whether the reservation of drainage warrants in the constitutional amendment
of 1874 was necessary, in view of the fact that the assessments
had already been reduced to judgments against the city and
the property owners, and that the further issue of drainage
warrants was rather in the nature of the payment of a debt
already incurred than the creation of a new obligation. There
can be no question that the amendment was not designed to
impair the validity of a debt already legally incurred, and
that if it bad attempted that, it would have been hostile to
the provision of the Federal Constitution against impairing
the obligation of a contract.

N'EW ORLEANqS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court

6. It is scarcely necessary to say that the fact that the city
chose to pay $300,000 in 1876 for property which Van Korden
bought in 1872 from the Ship Canal Company for $50,000, is
not one which can be considered here. The act Of 1876, authorizing the purchase and the settlement of claims against the
city, provided for the appointment of an appraiser to estimate
the value of the rights and things to be purchased or settled
for. This appraiser was appointed and appraised the dredge
boats and machinery at $153,750, being twenty-five per cent
less than the original cost. He announced himself 'as unable
to come to a conclusion with reference to the damages claimed.
It must be borne in mind that the consideration of $300,000
was fixed upon not only to cover the value of the property of
the plant, but the exclusive franchise under the act of 1871,
and the claims for damages against the city.
It may be that the city made a bad bargain. It may be
that it paid far more than the fair value of the property and
claims purchased. It may be that the action of the common
council was dictated by improper considerations, though this
is rather hinted at than asserted; but from the case of Fletcher
v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 130, to the present time we have uniformly refused to inquire into the motives of legislative bodies.
In this case Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, speaking for the court,
observed: "That corruption should find its way into the governments of our infant republics, and contaminate the very
source of legislation, or that impure motives should contribute
to the passage of a law, or the formation of a legislative contract, are circumstances most deeply to be deplored. How
far a court of justice would, in any case, be competent, on proceedings instituted by the State itself, to vacate a contract
thus formed, and to annul the rights acquired under that
contract by third persons having no notice of the improper
means by which it was obtained, is a question which the court
would approach with much circumspection. It may well be
doubted how far the validity of a law depends upon the motives of its framers, and how far the particular inducements
operating on members of the supreme sovereign power of a
State, to the formation of a contract by that power, are examVOL. CLXXV-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

inable in a court of justice.

.

.

.

If the majority of the

legislature be corrupted, it may well be doubted whether it be
within the province of the judiciary to control their conduct;
and if less than a majority act from impure motives, the principle by which judicial interference would be regulated, is not
clearly discerned." See also .Exparte olcCardle, 7 Wall. 506,
514; Doyle v. Contidental Ins. Co., 94 U. S. 535; Soon Hng
v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703; United States V. Old Settlers, 148
U. S.427, 466; United States v. Des 3foines Navigation Co.,
142 U. S. 510, 543. This is also the law in Louisiana. Villavaso v. Barthet, 39 La. Ann. 247, 258.
7. The objection that the decree finds the city a debtor to
the complainant in the amount of the warrants is more apparent than real, since it also declares that he is entitled to be
paid out of the drainage assessments, refers it to a master to
state an account of such assessments, and provides for an
absolute decree against the city only if the fund established
by the accounting shall be sufficient, and for aprorata decree
if such fund be not sufficient to pay all the warrant holders
in full.
There was no error in allowing interest except as to amount.
The act of 1876, authorizing the city to purchase the drainage
plant, declared that the consideration should be paid in drainage warrants, issued in the same form and manner as those
theretofore issued under the act of 1871 for work done. This
act of 1871 provided that if there should not be sufficient funds
to cash the warrants when issued, the Administrator of Finance
was required to indorse upon them the date of presentation,
after which such warrants should bear interest at the rate of
eight per cent until paid. The warrants also made this provision upon their face. But there was no presentation for
payment as the statute and warrants required, and there was
no waiver of such presentation. In 1876, it is true, the city
abandoned the work, but the whole of complainant's case rests
upon the theory that there was no repudiation of the trust, or
of the obligation to do whatever was possible in the collection
of the assessments. If, then, the trust continued so as to charge
the city as trustee, the obligation of the complainant to take

NEW ORLEANS v. WARNER.
Opinion of the Court.

such measures as were necessary to charge the city with interest also continued. But- the liability of the city to pay interest was conditioned upon the presentation of the warrants
and the indorsement upon them of the date of such presentation. While refusal to indorse the date, upon a proper
presentation of the wArrants, would not prevent the collection
of interest, there must have been a presentation, or something
equivalent thereto, before interest would begin to run. If the
city had wholly denied the right of complainant, or distinctly
refused to perform its obligation, or had wholy' disabled
itself from complying with its contract, a different question
might have arisen, but the mere abandonment of the work was
not sufficient to obviate the necessity of a demand. Bgrard
v. Boagni, 30 La. Ann. 1125.
But the commencemefit of suit was a sufficient demand to
charge the defendant the interest from that day, Fuller v.
Hubbard,6 Cowen, 13, 22, at the rate specified in the contract.
It is true, the cases of Brewster v. TJakeJeld, 22 How. 118;
Burnhisel v. Firman,22 Wall. 170, and Holden v. Trust Co.,
100 U. S. 72, hold that, where there is a promise to pay upona certain day with interest at an exorbitant rate, the creditor
is only entitled to interest after that time by operation of law.
and not by any provision in the contract; although if the
local law be different, this court will follow it. Cromwell v.
Sac County, 96 U. S. 51, 61; O]io v. Frank, 103 U. S. 697.
These very cases, however, recognize the principle that, if the
parties themselves have fixed a rate to be paid up to the time
of payment, that rate will be respected. In this case both
the statute and the warrants provided that such wairants
shall bear interest at the rate of eight per cent "until paid,"
and we are therefore of opinion that complainant is entitled
to that rate from November 26, 1891, the date of filing the
bill and issuing the subpena.
'While this opinion does not cover all the assignments of
error, it disposes of all questions raised by counsel in their
briefs, and
Our conclusion is that the decree qf the Court of Apyeals be
modifiej in respect of the date from which interest is to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

be calculated, and as so modified aflirmed, with costs of
this court equally divided, and that the case be remanded to
the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana
with a direction to comply with the decree of the Court of
.Appeals as modified, and it is so ordered.
M . JUSTICE WHITE and MR. JUSTICE PECiHA
this case and took no part in its decision.

did not sit in

BRADY v. DALY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.
Wo. 52. Argued October 15, 1899. - Decided November 20,1899.

Section 4966 of the Revised Statutes, enacting that "any person publicly
performing or representing any dramatic composition for which a copyright has been obtained, without the consent of the proprietor thereof,
or his heirs or assigns, shall be liable for damages, therefor, such damages in all cases to be assessed at such sum, not less than one hundred
dollars for the first, and fifty dollars for every subsequent performance,
as to the court shall appear to be just," is not a penal statute and neither
provides for the recovery of a penalty nor a forfeiture.
This action, being brought to recover damages for the violation of a dramatic copyright, and not being one to recover either a penalty or a forfeiture, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of it by virtue of Rev. Stat.
§ 629, Subdivision 9, which confers upon Circuit Courts jurisdiction of
all suits at law or in equity arising under the patent or copyright laws of
the United States.
In the absence of any Federal statute of limitations, an action like this is
limited by the limitation existing for the class of actions to which it
belongs in the State where it was brought.
The question, as an original one, of how far a copyright of a play protects
any particular scene therein from being publicly produced or represented by another, aside from the dialogue contained -in the play, is not
before the court in this case.
There was no election of an inconsistent remedy, which would bar the plaintiff from recovering in this action.

THis was an action at law brought by Augustin Daly, and
prosecuted since his death by the executors of his will, 'for

