CASES ADJUDGED
fl

THFE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

'OCTOBER TERM, 1899.

JONES v. MEEHAN.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

INTED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 7. Irgued April 2T, 28, 1898.-Decided October 80, 1899.
A good titlet6 parts of the lands of an Indian tribe may be granted to individuals by a treaty between the Unitdd States and the tribe, without
any 'act of Congress, or any patent from the Executive authority of
the United States. The question in eVery case is whether the terms of
the treaty are such as to manifest the intention of the parties to uihake a
present grant to the persons named.
A treaty between the United States and an Indian tribe must be construed,
not according to the technical meaning of its words to learned lawyers,
but in the sense in which they would naturally be understood by the
Indians.
When the United States, in a treaty with an Indian tribe, and as part of
the consideration for the cession by the tribe of a tract of country to
the United States, make a reservation to a chief or other member of the
tribe of a specified number of sections of land, whether already identified, or to be surveyed and located in the future, the treaty itself converts the reserved sections iato individual property; the reservation,
unless accompanied by words limiting its effect, is equivalent to a present grant of a complete title in fee simple; and that title is alienable by
the grantee at his pleasure, unless the United States, by a provision of
the treaty, or of an act of Congress, have expressly or impliedly prohibited or restricted its alienation.
VOL. CLuVc:-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
The effect of the treaty of October 2, 1863, between the United States and
the Red Lake and Pembina bands of Chippewa Indians, by which those
bands ceded to the United States all their right, title and interest in a
large tract of country, and by which "there sl all be set apart from the
tract hereby ceded a reservation of six hund, ed and forty acres near
the mouth of the Thief River for the chief Mot.- Dung," was to grant
him an alienable title in fee in the quantity of lanu at the designated
place, subject only to its selection in due form, and to the definition of
its boundaries by survey and patent.
The right of inheritance, at the time of the death of the grantee in 1872,
in land granted in fee by the United States by an Indian treaty to a member of an Indian tribe, whose tribal organization was still recognized by
the Government of the United States, is controlled by the laws, usages
and customs of the tribe, and not by the law ot the State in which the
land lies, nor by any action of tbe Secretary of the Interior.
The construction of treaties is the peculiar, province of the judiciary ; and,
except in cases purely political, Congress has no constitutional power
to settle the rights under a treaty, or to affect titles already granted by
the treaty itself.

TME case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr,. JAmes A. Hellogg for appellant.
.Mr. Cushman E. Davis for appellees. .MXr. F-'an B.
Zellogg.and .i&. C. A. Severance were with him on the brief.
Mit. JusTric

GaiY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Minnesota, by Patrick Meehan and James Meehan, citizens of Wisconsin, against Ray
W. Jones, a. citizen of Minnesota, to quiet title in a strip of
land ten feet wide along the westerly shore of the Red Lake
River, in the county of Polk and State of Minnesota, extending from the northeasterly intersection of the plat of the
village of Thief River Falls with the shore at a point near
the junction of the two rivers, and being a part of lot 1 in
section 34, township 154 and range 43.
For convenience, the parties will be designated, throughout
this opinion, according to their position in the court below;
the Meehans, now appellees, as the plaintiffs; and Jones, now
Appellant, as the defendant.

JONES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Each party derived title under the "reservation of six hundred and forty acres near the mouth of Thief River for the
chief Moose Dung" in article 9 of the treaty made at the
Old Crossing of Red Lake River in the State- of Minnesota,
on October 2, 1863, between the United States, by their Cornmissioners, Alexander Ramsay, a Senator of the United
States for the State of Minnesota, and Ashley C. Morrill,
agent for the Chippewa Indians, of the one part, and the Red
Lake and Pembina bands of Chippewa Indians, by their
chiefs, headmen and warriors, of the other part,. and afterwards ratified by the Senate, with amendments assented to
by the Indians. 13 Stat. 667-671. The material provisions
of that treaty were as follows:
By article 2, those bands of Chippewas ceded to the United
States all their right, title and interest in a large tract of
country to the west of Thief River in the State of Minnesota,
including all the American valley of the Red River of the
North.
By article 3, "In consideration of the foregoing cession,
the United States agree to pay to the said Red Lake and
Pembina bands of Chippewa Indians the following sums, to
wit, twenty thousand dollars per annum for twenty years;
the said sum to be distributed among the Chippewa Indians of
the said bands in equal amounts per capita."
By article 5, "To encourage and aid the chiefs of said bands
in preserving order, and inducing, by their example and advice,
the members of their respective bands to adopt the habits
and pursuits of civilized life, there shall be paid to each of
the said chiefs annually, out of the annuities of the said bands,
a sum not exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars, to be determined by their agents according to their respective merits
And for the better promotion of the above objects, a further
sum of five hundred dollars shall be paid at the first payment
to each of the said chiefs to enable him to build for himself
a house."
By article 8, "In further consideration of the foregoing
cession, it is hereby agreed that the United States shall grant
to each male adult half-breed or mixed-blood who is related

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

by blood to the said Chippewas of the said Red Lake or
Pembina bands, who has adopted the habits and customs of
civilized life, and who is a citizen of the United States, a
homestead of one hundred and sixty acres of land, to be selected at his option, within the limits of the tract of country
hereby ceded to the United States, on any land not previously
occupied by actual settlers or covered by prior grants, the
boundaries thereof to be adjusted in conformity with the
lines of the official surveys when the same shall be made, and
with the laws and regulations of the United States affecting
the location and entry of the same."
By one of the amendments made by the Senate, with the
assent of the Indians, there was inserted at the end of article
8 the following: "Provided, that no scrip shall be issued
under the provisions of this article, and no assignments shall
be made of any right, title or interest at law or in equity
until a patent shall issue, and no patent shall be issued until
due proof of five years' actual residence and cultivation, as
required by the act entitled 'An act to secure homesteads on
the public domain."'
By article 9 of the treaty, "Upon the urgent request of the
Indians, parties to this treaty, there shall be set apart from the
tract hereby ceded a reservation of six hundred and forty
acres near the mouth of Thief River for the chief Moose Dung,
and a like reservation of six hundred and forty acres for the
chief Red Bear on the north side of Pembina River."
Moose Dung or Monsimoh was one of the principal chiefs
of the Red Lake band of Chippewa Indians, and his name was
the first of the Indian signatures to the treaty, all of which
were by marks only.
The plaintiffs, against the defendant's objection, introduced
in evidence certified copies of extracts from the journal of the
proceedings at the negotiation of the treaty, annexed to the
report made by Mr. Ramsay to the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs in Qctober, 1863. That journal stated that "Moose
Dung, who was really the most influential of all the chiefs,
stood at the head of a party embracing the large majority of
all the bands who were favorable to and even anxious for

JONES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

a treaty." It also showed that part of the discussion was as
follows: Moose Dung said: "I have taken the mouth of
Thieving River as my inheritan6e. I do not ask the chiefs
here where I shall go. I make my home there. I wanted it
for a reservation for myself." "I used to think that this was
the proper place for me to settle; that it would be an inheritance for my children- where all my children could have
enough to live on in the future." Mr. Ramsay answered:
"Tell him I don't care anything about the mouth of Thieving
River. He can have it if he wants it." Moose Dung replied:
"I accept of the proposition, because I see that I am going to
be raised from want to riches - to be raised to the level of the
white man." "You and the Government have used every
exertion for a great many years to bring about a treaty. I
do not want you to exert yourselves in vain. I now give up
the tract of country." The journal further stated that "at
the end of a session of three and a half hours' duration Moose
Dung, who has stood for an hour weighing and deliberating on
every separate provision of this treaty, asking for this explanation and that modification, appearing to labor under a serious
sense of the great responsibility he was taking, at last touched
the pen which was to affix his vicarious sign-manual to the
treaty," and the other chiefs followed his example.
The plaintiffs also, against .the like objection, introduced
testimony of the secretary of the commission, of the official
interpreter, and of other persons, Indians as well as white
persons, who were present at the negotiations of the treaty,
to the same effect.
Moose Dung selected as his reservation, under the ninth
article of the treaty, six hundred and forty acres, a part of
which was lot 1 in section 34, including the strip now in controversy; and he lived on that land at the mouth of Thief
River, and made it his home, and had a log house, a garden
and a fish trap there. He died in 1872, before the lands were
surveyed, and was succeeded as chief by his eldest son, who
had been born at Red Lake in 1828, and who was known to
the whites by the name of Moose Dung or Monsimoh, and to the
Indians as Mayskokonoyay, meaning "The one that wears the

OCTOB1ER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

red robes;" and, ever since the making of the treaty, his
father and himself, in succession, sustained tribal relations
with the Red Lake band of Chippewa Indians, and that band
continued to be recognized as an Indian tribe by the Government of the United States.
On June 27, 1879, the United States Indian agent at White
Earth, Minnesota, wrote to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
at Washington that Moose Dung the younger, the only surviving son of Moose Dung named in the treaty, requested that
the land selected by his father might be set aside for his
benefit. On July 25, 1879, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
answered that Moose Dung the younger should at once locate
the desired lands in accordance with the description in the
treaty; and that it must be shown to the satisfaction of
the Office of Indian Affairs that his father left no other
children. On September 10, 1879, the agent replied that
"the heirs of Moose Dung" had selected the lands (describing
them particularly} that had been selected by the elder Moose
Dung before his death. On September 30, 1879, the Secretary
of the Interior, on the recommendation of the Commissioner
ot Indian Affairs, approved "the selection made by the heirs of
Moose Dung," and directed the Commissioner of the General
Land Office to "take the necessary steps for. the protection of
the said lands so reserved for.the benefit of those entitled, as
contemplated by the treaty stipulations ;" and they were
thereupon set apart accordingly, and were designated on all
goveranient maps as "Moose Dung's reservation."
From the time of this selection Moose Dung the younger
lived upon, exercised dominion over, and -claimed to own, the
land so selected, and cultivated part of it, leased other parts
of it for pasturage, and sold sand off it.
On November 7, 1891, Moose Dung the younger, describing
himself as "Moose Dung, of Thief River Falls, Polk County,
Minnesota," made a lease to the plaintiffs, for ten years, at an
annual rent of twenty-five dollars, of this strip of land and all
shore rights for storing logs, erecting piles and booms, and for
all purposes connected with lumbering; and he affixed to it
his mark and seal, and acknowledged it before a notary public,

JONS-ES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

after its contents had been fully explained to him through an
interpreter. On November 10, 1891, this lease was recorded" in
the registry of deeds for the county. The plaintiffs accepted
the lease and paid the rent according to its terms; and in 1892
they erected a large saw-mill on the bank of Thief River,
a short distance below the strip leased, and entered upon this
strip, drove piles and strung booms in the river opposite, and
stored logs there, and thenceforth used the strip as one shore
of the mill-pond appurtenant to their saw-mill.
The land selected by -Moose Dung was near the village
of Thief River Falls, which, when this lease was made, contained some fifty inhabitants and had no railroad and no important industry, and land there was of little value. But.
in 1892, after the erection of the plaintiffs' saw-mill, the Great
Northern Railway Company built a railroad to the village,
a large settlement sprang up there, and the land increased in
value.
On July 20, 1894, Moose Dung the younger, describing
himself as "Monsimoh, (commonly called Moose Dung,) heir
and successor of his father Monsimoh, (also commonly called
Moose Dung,)" made a lease of the whole of lot I in section 34,
and of all appurtenances and riparian rights thereto belonging, for twenty years, to the defendant, at an annual rent of
two hundred dollars; and on July 23, 1894, this lease was
recorded in the registry of deeds. The defendant, at the time
of obtaining this lease, knew of the prior lease and possession
of the plaintiffs. On August 4, 1894, Congress passed a joint
resolution authorizing the Secretary of the Interior "to approve, if in his discretion he deems the same proper and
advisable, and upon such terms as he may impose," this lease
to the defendant. 28 Stat. 1018. On December 27, 1894, the
Secretary of the Interior approved this lease, upon condition
(to which both the lessor and the lessee assented) that the
annual rent should be four hundred dollars, and "be paid to
the agent in charge of the Chippewa Indians in Minnesota, and
by him paid to the parties found to be entitled thereto by this
Department," and should be readjusted every five years, and
"the said premises, nor any part thereof, shall not be sublet

OCTOBER TER]M, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

without the written consent of the lessor, his heirs or assigns,
and the approval of the Secretary of the Interior."
The Circuit Court held that the reservation in the treaty to
the elder Moose Dung was in the nature of a grant of title to
him, burdened with no restriction or condition save that of
selection anal identification; that upon the selection and location the title in the selected lands vested in Moose Dung the
younger as his eldest son and successor; that the latter's lease
of November 9, 1891, to the plaintiffs was a valid and subsisting lease of the strip in controversy, and needed no approval
by the Secretary of the Interior; that the lease made on July
20, 1894, to the defendant, and approved by the Secretary of
the Interior, was subordinate to the lease to the plaintiffs, and,
as against them, conveyed no right to the occupancy or use of
the strip; and that the plaintiffs were entitled to have the
rights and privileges under the earlier lease vested and quieted
in them as against the claims of the defendant. 70 Fed. Rep.
453. The defendant appealed to this court.
The fundamental question in the case is, What was the nature of the title which the elder chief Moose Dung took under
the treaty of October 2, 1863, between the United States and
the Red Lake and Pembina bands of Chippewa Indians?
Was it a mere right of occupancy, with no power to convey
the land except to the United States or by their consent? Or
was it substantially a title in fee simple with full power of
alienation?
Undoubtedly, the right of the Indian nations or tribes to
their lands within the United States was a right of possession
or occupancy only; the ultimate title in fee in those lands was
in the United States; and the Indian title could not be conveyed by the Indians to any one but the United States, without the consent of the United States. Johlnson v. .alntosh,
8 Wheat. 543 ; Cherokee Nation v. Georgia,5 Pet. 1, 17; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 544; Doe v. Wilson, 23 How.
457, 463; United States v. 0ook, 19 Wall. 591; United States
v. KYagama, 118 U. S. 375, 381; Buttz v. Northern Pacific
Railroad,119 U. S. 55, 67. In the leading case of Johnson v.
.McIntosh, (1823) it was therefore held that grants of lands

JONES V. MHAE

.

Opinion of 'the Court.

northwest of the river Ohio, made in 1773 and 1775 by the
chiefs of certain Indian tribes, constituting the Illinois and the
Pinkeshaw nations, to private individuals, conveyed no title
which could be recognized in the courts of the United States;
and Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering judgment, said:
"The usual mode adopted by the Indians for granting lands
to individuals has been to reserve them in a treaty, or to grant
them under the sanction of the commissioners with whom the
treaty was negotiated." 8 Wheat. 598.
Accordingly, by several early treaties between the United
States of the one part, and the Chippewas and other Indian
nations of the other part, the said Indian nations acknowledged
themselves to be under the protection of the United States,
and of no other sovereign whatever; the United States relinquished and quitclaimed to. the said nations respectively all
the lands lying within certain limits, to live and hunt upon,
and otherwise occupy as they saw fit; but the said nations, or
either of them, were not to be at liberty to dispose of those
lands, except to the United States. Treaties of January 1,
1785, art. 2; January 9, 1789, art. 3; August 3, 1795, arts. 4,
5; 7 Stat. 16, 29, 52.
Soon after the adoption of the Constitution, the same doctrine was repeatedly recognized and enforced by Congress in
temporary acts regulating trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes. By the act of July 22, 1790, c. 33, § 4, it was
"enacted and declared that no sale of lands made by any
Indians, or any nation or tribe of Indians, within the United
States, shall be valid, to any person or persons, or to any State,
whether having the right of preemption to such lands or not,
unless the same shall be made and duly executed at some
publi; treaty held under the authority of othe United States."
1 Stat. 138. In the act of March 1, 1793, c. 19, § 8, the corresponding provision was that "no purchase or grant of lands,
or of any title or claim thereto, from any Indians, or nation or
tribe of Indians, within the bounds of the United States, shall
be of any validity, in law or equity, unless the same be made
by a treaty or convention entered into pursuant to the Constitution." 1 Stat. 330. In the acts of May 19, 1796, c. 30,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 12, and March 3, 1799, c. 46, § 12, this provision was re~nacted, substituting for the words "purchase or grant" the
words "purchase, grant, lease or other conveyance," and for
the*words "any Indians," in the plural, the words "any Indian," in the singular, so as to read: "No purchase, grant,
lease or other conveyance of lands, or of any title or claim
thereto, from any Indian, or nation or tribe of Indians, within
the bounds of the United States, shall be of any validity, in
law or equity, uniess the same be made by treaty or convention entered into pursuant to the Constitution."
1 Stat. 472,
746. And this language of the temporary acts of 1796 and
1799 was repeated in the first permanent enactment upon the
subject, being the act of March 30, 1802, c. 13, § 12. 2 Stat.
143.
It is well settled that a good title to parts of the lands of
an Indian tribe may be granted to individuals by a treaty between the United States and the tribe, without any act of
Congress, or any patent from the Executive authority of the
United States. Johnson v. JXcIntosh, 8 Wheat. above cited;
.Mitchel v. Uftited States, 9 Pet. 711, 748; Doe v. Beardsley,
2 McLean, 417, 418; United States v. Brooks, 10 How. 442,
460; Doe v. Wilson, 93 How. 457, 463; Crews v. Burcham, 1
Black, 356; Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211, 247; Best v. Polk,
18 Wall. 112, 116; Noew York Indians v. United States, 170
U. S. 1. The question in every case is whether the terms of
the treaty are such as to manifest the intention of the parties
to make a present grant to the persons named.
The Indian tribes within the limits of the United States are
not foreign nations; though distinct political communities,
they are in a dependent condition ; and Chief Justice Marshall's description, that "they are in a state of pupilage," and
"their relation to the United States resembles that of a ward
to his guardian," has become more and more appropriate as
they have grown less powerful and more dependent. Cherokee
Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 17; O/k v. Wilkins, 112 U. S. 94,
99; United States v. KYagama, 118 U. S. 375, 382, 384; Stephens v. Choctaw Nation, 174 U. S. 445, 484.
In construing any treaty between the United States and an

JO1qES v. MEEHI.
Opinion of the Court.

Indian tribe, it must always (as was pointed out by the counsel
for the appellees) be borne in mind that the negotiations for
the treaty are conducted, on the part of the United States, an
enlightened and powerful nation, by representatives skilled in
diplomacy, masters of a written language, understanding the
modes and forms of creating the various technical estates
known to their law, and assisted by an'interpreter employed
by themselvesj that the treaty is drawn up by them and in
-their own language; that the Indians, on the other hand, are
a weak and dependent people, who have no written language
and are wholly unfamiliar with all the forms of legal expressibn, and whose only knowledge of the terms in which the
treaty is framed is that imparted to them by the interpreter
employed by the United States; and that the treaty must
therefore be construed, not according to the technical meaning of its words to learned lawyers, but in the sense in which
they would naturaily be understood by the Indians., Worcester
v. Georgia,6 Pet. 515; The Kansas Indians,5 Wall. 737, 760;
Chocaw Nation v. United States, 119 U. S.1, 27, 28. In the
case of Worcester v. Georgia, (1832) Chief Justice Marshall,
speaking of article 4 of the treaty of Hopewell of November
28, 1785, between the United States and the Cherokee Indians,
which defined "the boundary allotted to the Cherokees for their
hunting grounds, betw&een the said Indians and the citizens of
the United States," (7 Stat. 19,) said: "There is the more
reason for supposing that the Cherokee chiefs were not very
critical judges of the language, from the fact that every one
makes his mark; no chief was capable of signing his name.
It is probable the treaty was interpreted to them." "Is it
reasonable to suppose that the Indians, who could not write,
and ihost probably, could not read, who certainly were not
critical judges of our language, should distinguish ttie word
' allotted' from the words ' marked out' ?" 6 Pet. 551, 552.
And Mr. Justice. McLean, concurring; said: "The language
used in treaties with the Indians should never be construed to
their prejudice." "To contend that the word 'allotted,' in
reference to the lands guarantied to the Indians in certain
treaties indicates a favor conferred, rather. than a*right ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

knowledged, would, it would seem to me, do injustice to the
understanding of the parties. How the words of the treaty
were understood by this unlettered people, rather than their
critical meaning, should form the rule of construction." 6
Pet. 582.
The defendant's counsel at the argument relied on an opinion given by Chief Justice Taney, when Attorney General,
under the following circumstances: By the treaty made at
Camp Tippecanoe in the State of Illinois on October 20, 1832,
between the United States and the Pottawatomie tribe of
Indians of the Prairie and Kaukakee, (while the act of March
30, 1802, c. 13, was in force,) that tribe ceded a large tract" of
land in Illinois to the United States, and it was provided that
"from the cession aforesaid the following tracts shall be reserved, to wit," a certain number of sections to each of particular Indians named. 7 Stat. 378. On September 20, 1833,
Attorney General Taney gave an opinion to the Secretary of
War that "these reservations are excepted out of the grant
made by the treaty, and did not therefore pass by it; consequently, the title remains as it was before the treaty; that is
to say, the lands reserved are still held under the original
Indian title ;" and therefore "the Indian occupants cannot
convey them to individuals, and no valid cession can be made
of their interest but to the United States." 2 Opinions of
Attorneys General, 587.
But within a year after that opinion was given, and perhaps in consequence thereof, Congress, in framing a new act
regulating trade and 'intercourse with the Indian tribes,
,omitted .the prohibition, contained in former statutes, of purchases or leases from "any Indian," and put the provision
invalidating Indian conveyances in 'this altered form: "No
purchase, grant, lease or other conveyance of lands, or of any
title or claim thereto, from any Indian nation or tribe of
Indians, shall be of any validity, in law or equity, unless the
same be made by treaty or convention entered into pursuant
to the Constitution." Act of June 30, 1831, c. 161, § 12; 4
Stat. 730. The declaration, retained in this act, of the invalidity of purchases and leases "from any nation or tribe of

JONES v. MEEHAN.

13

Opinion of the Court.

Indians," might include a purchase or lease from any Indian
acting by authority derived from his tribe only. .Johnsonv.
JifcIntosh, 8 Wheat. 543, 593; Smith v. Sieves, 10 Wall. 321,
323; GoodeZI v. Jack8on, 20 Johns. 693, 723.

But the infer-

ence appears to us to be irresistible that Congress did not
intend that there should thenceforth be any general restriction upon the alienation by individual Indians of sections of
land reserved to them respectively by a treaty with the United
States. And this view is confirmed by the reenactment of the
provision, in the very words of .the act of 1834, in section
2116 of the Revised Statutes, and by the course of decision
in this court in a series of opinions which may conveniently
be considered in their chronological order.
The supplementary articles of September 28, 1830, to the
treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek of September 27, 1830, between the United States and the Choctaw Nation of Indians,
making provision for "various Choctaw persons," used, as
synonymous *expressions, the phrases "shall be entitled to a
reservation of," "is allowed a reservation of," "there shall be
granted," "there is given," or "is granted," sections of land,
either including the present residence and improvement of
such persons, or to be located on any unimproved and unoccupied land. 7 Stat. 340. In Gaines-v. .Nicholson,(1850)
9 How. 356, Mr. Justice Nelson, in delivering the opinion of
the court, did -say of such a reservation: "It was so much
carved out of the territory ceded, and remained to"the Indian
'occupant, as he had never parted with it. lHe holds, strictly
speaking, not under the treaty of cession, but under his original title confirmed by the Government in the act of agreeing
to the reservation." 9 How. 365. But that treaty was made
before the act of Congress of 1834; the only question in the
case was of the effect of the reservation as against a previous
grant of land by Congress to a State for the support of
schools; the court had no occasion to define, and did not
undertake to define, the exact nature of the title granted or
confirmed by the treaty; and the suggestion, in accordance
with Attorney General Taney's opinion, above cited, that the
treaty rather confirmed the Indian right than granted a new

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

title, can hardly be reconciled with the later judgments of
the court, to be presently considered, one of which was delivered by the same learned judge. Crews v. Burkam, 1
.Black, 352.
In concluding the treaty of July, 1, 1835, between the
United States and the Caddo nation of Indians, in Eouisiana,
,supplementary articles were added, by which, after a recital
that that nation. had in. 1801 granted to one Francis Grappe
(who was a half-blood Caddo) and to his three. sons a league
-land of each, "it is agreed" that Grappe's legal representatives
and lis said three sons "siall have their right to the said four
leagdes of land reserved. to them, and their leirs-aud-assigns
forever. The said land to be taken out of 'thelands ceded to
the United States by the said Caddo nations ot Ifdi-ans as
expressed in the treaty to which this article is supplementary.
And the said four leagues 'of land shall be laid off in one
body," at a place described, in conformity with the boundaries
"expressed in the original deed of .gift 11from the Caddo
nation to Grappe and his three sons.. 7 Stat. 473. In United
States v. Brooks, (1850) 10 How. 442, it was argued for the
United States that the effect of this agreement was simply
that the Grappes shofid retain their right, whatever it might
be, under the reservation of i801; and that that reservation
was not authorized by the -laws then in force there. But it
was adjudged that its effect was to vest in the Grappes an
absolute title in fee simple, which they might convey to any
one; the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Wayne, saying: "We
think that the treaty gave to the Grappes a fee simple title
to all the rights which the Caddoes had in these lands, as
fully as any patent from the government could make one.
The reservation to the Grappes, ' their heirs and assigns forever,' creates as absolute a fee as any subsequent act upon the
part of thp United States could make. Nothing further was
contemplated by the treaty to perfect the title. -Brooks being
the alienee of the Grappes for the entire reservation, he may
hold it against any claim- of the United States, as his alienors
'would have done." 10 How. 460. In that case, therefore,
an agreement that the persons named" shall have their right"

JONES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

to "certain lands reserved," and the lands "shall be laid off,"
was given the same effect as a present grant or patent. It is
true that the treaty there in question reserved the right to
those persons, "and their heirs and assigns forever." But the
like construction has since been given to reservations unac•companied by any words of inheritance.
By the first article of a treaty made on the Tippecanoe
River in the State of Indiana on October 27, 1832, between
the United States and the Pottawatomies of that State and of Michigan Territory, that tribe of Indians ceded their title
and interest to lands in Indiana, Illinois and Michigan to the"
United States. By article 2, "from the cession aforesaid th6
following reservations are made" to certain bands of Indians.
And by article 3, "the United States agree to grant to e.ch
of the following persons the quantity of land annexed to their
names, which lands shall be conveyed to them by patent."7
"The foregoing reservations shall be selected, under the direction of the President of the United States, after the lands shall
have been surveyed, and the .boundaries to correspond with
the public surveys." 7 Stat. 399-401.
In .Doe v. Wilson, (1859) 23 How. 457, it was held, in an
action of ejectment, that a warranty deed made by Petchico,
(a Pottawatomie chief, one of the persons named in the third
article of that treaty,) in February, 1833, to citizens of Indiana,
before the lands had been surveyed, or a patent granted, passed
a good title as against a deed made by his heirs after the issue
of the patent and his death. The court, speaking by Mr. Justice Catron, said: "The Pottawatomie nation was the owner
of the possessory right of the country ceded, and all the subjects of the nation were joint owners of it. The reservees
took by the treaty, directly from the nation, the Indian title;
and this was the right to occupy, use and enjoy the lands, in
common with the United States, until partition was made in
the manner prescribed." This sentence has sometimes been
supposed to indicate that by the treaty the reservees took
directly from- the Indian nation its possessory right only,
defined as "the right to occupy, use and enjoy the lands in
common with the. United States." But this was qualified by

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the concluding words of the same sentence, "until partition
was made in the manner prescribed," that is to say, by the
treaty. And the court went *on to say, in the most distinct
terms: "The treaty itself converted the-reserved sections into
individual property. The Indians as a nation reserved no
interest in the territory ceded; but, as a part of the consideration for the cession, certain individuals of the nation had cQn-

ferred on them portions of L the land, to which the United
States title was either added or promised to be added; and it
matters not which, for the purposes of this controversy for
possession. The United States held the ultimate title, charged
with thie right of undisturbed occupancy and perpetual possession in the Indian nation, with the exclusive power in the Government of acquiring the right. Although the Government
alone can purchase lands from an Indian nation, it does not
follow that, when the rights of the nation are extihguished,
an individual of the nation who takes as private owner cannot
sell his interest. The Indian title is property, and alienable
unless*the treaty had prohibited its sale. So far from this
being the case in the instance before us, it is manifest that
sales of the reserved sections were contemplated, as the lands
ceded were forthwith to be surveyed, sold and inhabited by a
white population, among whom the Indians could not remain."
23 How. 463, 464.
In Crews v. Burcham, (1861) 1 Black, 352, a warranty deed.
made by Francis Besion, another person named in the third
article of that treaty, under like circumstances, to one Armstrong, was accordingly held to vest the legal title in him ;
and the scope and effect of the decision in Doe v. 17ilsom were
clearly brought out in the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice
Nelson, as follows: "It was there held, that the, reservation
created an equitable interest in the land to be selected under
the treaty; that it was the subject of sale and conveyance;
that Petchico was competent to convey it; and that his deed,
upon the selection of the land ansd the issue of the patent,
operated to vest the title in his grantee. It is true that no
title to the particular lands in question could vest in the
reservee, or in his grantee, until the location by the President,

JONES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

and, perhaps, the issuing of the patent; but the obligation to
make the selection as soon as the lands were surveyed, and to
issue the patent, is absolute and imperative,, and founded upon
a valuable and meritorious consideration. The lands reserved
constituted a part of the compensation received by the Pottawatomies for the relinquishment of their right of occupancy
to the Government. The agreement was one which, if entered
into by an indivi4ual, a court of chancery would have enforced
by compelling the selection of the lands and the conveyance
in favor of the reservee, or, in case he had parted with his
interest, in favor of his grantees. And the obligation is not
the less imperative and binding, because entered into by the
Government. The equitable right, therefore, to the lands, in
the grantee of Besion, when selected, was perfect; and the
only objection of any plausibility is the technical one as to the
vesting of the legal title." "We think it quite clear, if this
patent had issued to Besion in his lifetime, the title would
have inured to his grantee. The deed to Armstrong recites
the reservation to the grantee of the half section under the
treaty, and that it was to be located by the President after
the lands were surveyed; and then, for a valuable consideration, the grantee conveys all his right and title to the same
with a full covenant of warranty. The land is sufficiently identified to which Besion had the equitable title, which was the
subject of the grant, to give operatiofi.and effect to this covenant on the issuing of the- patent, within the meaning of this
act of Congress. [Aqt of May 20, 1836, c. 76; 5 Stat.31.] The
act declares the land shall inure-to, and-become vested in; the
assignee, the same as ifthe paten had issued to the deceased
in his lifetime." " Some 6kpressibna in the opinion delivered
in the case of Doe v. Wilson, the flist case that came before
us arising out of this treaty, were the subject of observations
by the learned counsel for the appellant in the argument, but
which were founded on a misapprehension of their scope and
purport. It was supposed that the court had held that the
rneservee was a tenant in common with the United States after
the treaty of cession and until the survey and patent. It will
be seen, however, that the tenancy in common there mentioned
VOL. cLrxxv-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

referred to the right to occupy, use land enjoy the land in
common with the Government, and had no relation to the
legal title." 1 Black, 356, 357.
By those two decisions it was determined that the "reservations," created by the treaty with the Pottawatomies of
October 27, 1832, in favor of individual Indians, by the words
"1the United States agree to grant" to each of them sections
of land, "which lands shall be conveyed to them by patent,"
had the effect of granting a present and alienable interest to
each. In both those decisions Chief Justice Taney concurred
- which is worthy of special notice in view of the different
opinion, above cited, which he had given, when Attorney
General, upon the effect of similar reservations in a treaty
made with another band of Pottawatomies seven days earlier,
but. promulgated by the President at the same time as this
treaty. 7 Stat. 378, 399. And the two decisions were cited
and approved by this court, speaking of Mr. Justice Matthews,
in Prentice v. Stearns, (1885) 113 U. S. 435, 446, 447. See
also the opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Miller in the Circuit
Court in Prentice v. Northern Pacific Railroad, (1890) 43
Fed. Rep. 270, 275.
In the treaty of June 3, 1825, between the United States
and the Kansas nation of Indians, it was provided, by article
6, that from the lands thereby ceded to the United States
there should be made reservations of one mile square for each
of the half-breeds named; and, by article 11, that "the said
Kansas nation shall never sell, relinquish or in any manner
dispose of the lands, herein reserved, to any other nation,
person' or persons whatever, without the permission of the
United States for that purpose first had and obtained." 7
Stat. 245, 247. The act of Congress of May 26, 1860, c. 61,
after reciting that the lands so reserved had been surveyed
and allotted to each of the half-breeds in accordance with
article 6 of the treaty, enacted that "all the title, interest and
estate of the United States is hereby vested in the said reservees, who are now living, to the land reserved, set apart
and allotted to them," and in the heirs of those deceased,
"but nothing herein contained shall be construed to give any

JOiES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

force, efficacy or binding effect to any contract, in writing or
otherwise, for the sale or disposition of any lands named in
this act, heretofore made by any of said reservees or their
heirs;" and it was further enacted that if any of the reservees, or the heirs of any one deceased, should not desire to
occupy the lands to which they were entitled-by the provisions
of this act, the Secretary of the Interior, upon their request,
should be authorized to sell the lands for their benefit, and to
issue patents to the purchasers. 12 Stat. 21. In Smith v.
Stvens, (1870) a deed made by one of those half-breeds, shortly
after the passage of that act, without the authority or assent.
of the Secretary of the Interior, was adjudged by this court,
speaking to Mr. Justice Davis, to be void, uponi the single
ground "that the statute, having provided the way in which
these half-breed lands could be sold, by necessary implication
prohibited their sale in any other way." I0 Wall. 321, 326.
By the treaty with the Chickasaws of May 24, 1834, it was
agreed, in article 5, that "the following reservations be
granted in fee- To heads of families, being Indians or having
Indian families," a certain number of sections of land; and,j
by article 6, "also reservations of a section to each shall be
granted to" other members of the tribe, of the age of twentyone years and upwards, according to a list to be made out by
seven chiefs named in the treaty, and filed with the agent,
"upon whose certificate of its believed accuracy the register
and receiver shall cause said reservations to be located upon
lands fit for cultivation."- 7 Stat. 451, 452. It may be o&served that article 6, differing in-these respects from article 5,
used the future tense, "shall be granted," and omitted the
words "in fee.". Yet in Best v. Polk, (1873) 18 Wall. 112,
this court held that the treaty itself conferred a full title upon
an Indian to whom lands were reserved by article 6, and,
again speaking by Mr. Justice Davis; said: "Can it be doubted
that it was the intention of both parties -to the treaty to clothe
the reservees with the full title ? If it were not so, there
would have been some words of limitation indicating a contrary intention. Instead of this, there is nothing to show
that a further grant, or any additiofial evidence of title, were

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion -of the Court.

contemplated. Nor was this necessary, for the treaty proceeded on the theory that a grant is as valid by a treaty as by
an act of Congress, and does not need a patent to perfect it.
We conclude, therefore, that the treaty conferred the title to
these reservations, which was complete when the locations
were made to identify them." 18 Wall. 116. "The treaty
granted the land, but the location had to be fixed before the
grant could become operative. After this was done, the
estate became vested and the right to it perfect, as much so
as if the grant had been directly executed to the reservee."
18 Wall. 118. In support of that conclusion, this court cited
decisions of the highest court of the State of Mississippi, in
which, after quoting the words of article 6 of the treaty, it
was said: "By this language, a title in fee passed to such
persons as were above the age of twenty-one. The term
reservation' was equivalent to an absolute grant. The title
passed as effectually as if a grant had been executed." "The
treaty has not contemplated a further grant, or other evidence
of title -showing conclusively that by the terms used it was
intended that a perfect title was thereby intended to be
secured. The Indian, then, under whom complainants claim,
had in herself an absolute and unconditional title in fee simple. The title was conferred by the treaty; it was not however perfect until the location was made; location was necessary to give identity. The location it seems was duly .made,
and thus the title to the land in controversy was consummated
by giving identity to that which was before unlocated."
_'iles v. Anderson, (1841) 5 How. (Miss.) 365, 383; "WYay v.
Doe, (1848) 10 Sm. &. Marsh. 452, 461.
In the treaty of June 24, 1862, between the United States
and a tribe of Ottawa Indians, article 3 provided as follows:
"It being the wish of said tribe of Ottawas to remunerate
several of the chiefs, councilmen and headmen of the tribe for
their services to them many years without pay, it is hereby
stipulated that five sections of land are reserved and set apart
for that purpose, to be apportioned among the said chiefs,
councilmen and headmen as the members of the tribe shall in
full council determine; and it shall be the duty of the Secre-

JONqES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

tary of the Interior to issue patents in fee simple of said lands,
when located and apportioned, to said Indians." 12 Stat.
1238.

In Libby v. Cark, (1886) 118 U. S. 250, this court,

approving and affirming the judgment of the Supreme- Court
of Kansas, delivered by Mr. Justice Brewer, in 14 Kansas, 435,
held that a deed to a white person from one of. those chiefs,
of land patented to him pursuant to the treaty, but executed
before he hhd become a citizen of the United States, was void,
for the single reason that the treaty itself, as construed by
the court, expressly provided, in article 7, that 'no Indian
should alien or incumber the land allotted to him until he had,
according to the terms of the treaty, become a citizen of the
United States.
In the Treaty of Prairie du Chien of July 29,1829, between
the United States and certain nations of Chippewa, Ottawa
and Pottawatbmie Indians, article 4, by which "there shall be
granted by the United States" to each of the persons named,
being descendants from Indians, sections of land, it was provided that "1
the tracts of land herein stipulated to be granted
shall never be leased or' conveyed by the grantees or their
heirs to any persons whatever without the permission of the
President of the United States." 7 Stat. 321. Of course,
under such a provision, no alienation could be valid without
the approval of the President. Pickering v. Lomax, (1892)
145 U. S. 310; Lomax v. Pickering, (1899) 173 U. S. 26..
The clear result of this series of decisions is that when the
United States, in a treaty with an Indian tribe, and as part of
the consideration for the cession by the tribe of a tract of
country to the United States, make a reservation to a chief or
other member of the tribe of a specified number of sections
of land, whether already identified, or. to be surveyed and
located in the future, the treaty itself converts the reserved
sections into individual property; the reservation, unless accompanied by words limiting its effect, is equivalent to a
present grant of a complete title in fee simple; and that title is
alienable by the grantee at his pleasure, unless the United States,
by a provision of the treaty, or of an act of Congress, have
expressly or impliedly prohibited or restricted its alienation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

The letters of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, referred
to in the supplemental brief of the defendant, expressing the
views entertained in his office at sundry times as to the effect
of a reservation in an Indian treaty to particular Indians without words of present grant, or of inheritance, were, for the
most part, written before the subject had been considered by
this court; and they fall far short of establishing such a uniform practical construction of the term by the Executive Departments as would warrant the court in overruling its own
opinions as expressed in the cases above stated.
The treaty of October 2, 1863, between the United States
and the Red Lake and Pembina bands of Chickasaw Indians,
now before the court, contains in itself peculiarly strong evidence that it was intended to vest in the elder chief Moose
Dung a full and complete title in the land reserved to him.
According to the decisions above cited, such would be the
construction of the ninth article, taken by itself, by which
"upon the urgent request of the Indians, parties to this treaty,
there shall be set apart from the tract hereby ceded a reservation of six hundred and forty acres near the mouth of Thief
River for the chief Moose Dung, and a like reservation of six
hundred and forty acres for the chief Red Bear on the north
side of Pembina River." And this construction is fortified by
other provisions of the treaty, quoted at the beginning of this
opinion.
By the eighth article, it is "agreed that the United States
shall grant to" each male adult half-breed or mixed-blood
who is related by blood to these Indians, who has adopted
the habits and customs of civilized life, and who is a citizen
of the United States, a homestead of one hundred and sixty
acres, to be selected out of the tract ceded, and in conformity with the official surveys when made. That article was
amended by the Senate by providing that no scrip should be
issued under its provisions, and no assignment should be made
of any right, title or interest before the issue of a patent, and no
patent should be issued until due proof of five years' actual residence and cultivation, as required by the homestead act. Act
of May 20, 1862, c. 75; 12 Stat. 392; Rev. Stat. § 2289, 2291.

JONES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

The reservations of four times as much land to each of the
chiefs Moose Dung and Red Bear under the ninth article were
not made subject, 1 y any provision of the original treaty, or'
of the Senate amendments, to the condition of adopting the
habits and customs of civilized life, or of becoming a citizen of
the United States, or of five years' actual residence and cultivation. But by the fifth article, with the avowed objects
"to encourage and aid the chiefs of said bands in preserving
order, and inducing, by their example and advice, the members
of their respective bands to adopt the habits and pursuits of
civilized life," each chief was to be paid, not only a certain
sum annually out of the annuities payable to the bands by the
treaty, but also, at the time of the first payment, a further
sum of five hundred dollars "to enable him to build for himself a house."
The provisions of that article are wholly inconsistent with
the theory that the title of the chiefs Moose Dung and Red
Bear respectively in the reservation of six hundred and forty
acres each, unconditionally set apart for them, was to be less
absolute than the title of the half-breeds in their homesteads
would be after the conditions of the treaty respecting them
had been complied with.
The only reasonable construction of all the provisions of the
treaty, taken together, is that the ninth article, by which
1Cthere shall be set apart from the tract hereby ceded a reservation of six hundred and forty acres near the mouth of the
Thief River for the Chief Moose Dung," and a reservation of
a like quantity of land at another place designated for the
chief Red Bear, was intended by the United States, and was
understood by the Indians, and took effect, as a present grant
to each of these two chiefs of an alienable title in fee in that
quantity of land at the designated place, subject only to its
selection in due form, and to the definition of its boundaries
by survey and patent.
Such being in our opinion the construction and effect of the
terms of the treaty itself, it is unnecessary to consider the
competency of the extrinsic evidence, offered by the plaintiffs,
of what took place between the representatives of the parties

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

at the negotiations which preceded its execution; for, whether
that evidence be admitted or rejected, the conclusion must be
the same.
Nor is it necessary to consider particularly the argument
of the plaintiffs, founded upon the citizenship acquired by
IMoose Dung the younger under that provision of the act of
February 8, 1887, c. 119,

§ 6, by which "every Indian born

within the territorial limits of the United States, to whom allotments shall have been made under the provisions of this act, or
under any law or treaty," is "declared to be a citizen of the
United States, whether said Indian had been or not by birth
or otherwise a member of any tribe of Indians within the
territorial limits of the United States, without in any manner
impairing or otherwise affecting the rights of any such Indian
to tribal or other property." 24 Stat. 390. That provision
might not enable individual Indians to alienate lands which
were not before alienable. Beck v. Flournoy Co., 27 U. S. App.
618; Zells v. Ross, 29 U. S. App. 59; Coombs, petitioner, 127
Mass. 278. But it certainly does. not take away a power of
alienation conferred by the treaty under which the allotment
was made.
Another question of importance, fully argued at the bar, is
whether Moose Dung the younger inherited all his father's
rights in the reservation. This question is presented by the
record in a peculiar aspect.
In the amended bill (which is the only one in the record
transmitted to this court) the plaintiffs claimed title under the
lease made to them by Moose Dung the younger on November
7, 1891, and alleged that at the date of that lease he was the
owner in fee simple of the lands in question.
In the answer filed January 15, 1895, to that bill, the defendant denied its allegations; and claimed title under the
reservation to Moose Dung the elder in the treaty, his selection
of lands and the setting apart of them by the Governmnt
as such reservation, and the lease executed by Moose Dung
the younger, (so the answer alleged, in substantial accord with
the form of the lease itself,) "as his oldest son, heir at law and
successor as chief of the IRed Lake band of Chippewa Indians,"

JO1YES v. MI-EEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

to the defendant, on July 20, 1894, as afterwards amended
and approved by the Secretary of the Interior; and alleged
that the Government, ever since its setting apart of the reservation, "conceded, treated and designated said selection as a
reservation which said Moose Dung was entitled to possess
and control, subject however to the control of the overseers
and agents of -the Government of the United States." The
plaintiffs filed a general replication to the answer.
The testimony in the case was taken, under order of the
court, by a special examiner, before whom (as appears by the
record) the following proceedings were had, at the dates mentioned below:
On May 21, 1895, the plaintiffs introduced the deposition of
John George Morrison, who testified that he was fifty-five
years old, was a Scotch half-breed and had a quarter of Chippewa blood, had lived with the Red Lake band of Chippewa
Indians all his life, spoke both English and Chippewa, was
a special interpreter at the negotiation of the treaty, and was
acquainted with the laws, customs and usages of the Chippewa
Indians; and that, according to those laws, customs and
usages, a chief like the elder Moose Dung had the right to.
select a piece of land and to use it as his home, and upon his
death his eldest son would inherit all.his land, and succeed to
his office and powers as chief of the band; and the witness
was not cross examined on this point.
On June 8,1895, while the defendant was putting in evidence
in support of his title as alleged in the answer, "it was admitted by the complainants' solicitor that the living chief
Monsimoh was the eldest son and successor to all rights of
his father under the treaty of October 2, 1863, and the son of
the chief Monsimoh who signed that treaty."
On July 15, 1895, the plaintiffs put in evidence the complaint in an action brought by this defendant against them onFebruary 15, 1895, containing an allegation that, upon the
death of the old chief Moose Dung, "his son, Monsimoh, commonly called and known as Moose Dung, survived him and
became the sole heir at law and successor of the said Moose
Dung, deceased, and thereby succeeded to, has ever since held

OCTOBER TERM; 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and does now hold all the right, title and interest in and privileges pertaining to said premises, as such heir at law and successor of the said deceased chief Moose Dung."
On July 23 and 24, 1895, the defendant introduced testimony
of Moose Dung the younger, and of other Indians, showing
that his father had two wives, both living at the same time,
and left six surviving descendants: three children, (1) Moose
Dung the younger, the eldest son by the first wife, (2) a
daughter by the first wife, and (3) a daughter by the second
wife; and three grandchildren, (4) a son of a deceased daughter by the first wife, (5) a daughter of a deceased daughter by
the first wife, and (6) a son of a deceased son by the second
wife.
Moose Dung the younger, when so examined as a witness
for the defendant, testified, on cross examination, that he
owned the land in question; that his father, when he died,
left the land to him alone; and that .by the customs of the
Red Lake Indians he, upon the death of his father, being his
eldest son by his first wife, succeeded him as chief, and was
entitled to succeed to all his land; and, being asked, "Who
first spoke to you about these other sisters and children having some interest in the land? " answered, "No one said anything to me about it."
On August 1, 1895, the defendant introduced, against the
plaintiffs' objection that they were inconipetent and immaterial, and not within the issues of the case, certified copies, from
the records of the Department of the Interior, of certain documents respecting the disposition of $100 deposited with the
Indian agent at White Earth, Minnesota, by the defendant, as
rent due under the lease to him from Moose Dung the younger,
as amended and approved by the Secretary of the Interior,
which documents were as follows: 1st. A letter, dated February 4, 1895, from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the
Indian agent, directing the agent "to fully investigate the
subject as to who are the legal heirs of old chief Moose Dung,
for the purpose of ascertaining to whom said rent should be
paid;" to submit all the evidence in the matter in the form
of affidavits, with a full report and recommendation; to per-

JOINES v. MEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

mit Moose Dung the younger, if he so desired, to be present
in person or by attorney at the hearing; to take his affidavit
as part of the evidence; and to hold the money paid by the
defendant in the agent's hands to await the determination of
the Commissioner. 2d. The report, dated March 30, 1895, of
the Indian agent to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, enclosing an affidavit, taken on that day, of Moose Dung the
younger, stating that he and the two daughters and three
grandchildren above mentioned were the only legal heirs of
his father, and that they were entitled to share equally with
him in the estate, and were all of legal age; affidavits, taken
March 5, 1895, of those daughters and grandchildren respectively, stating their relationship and ages, and that they were
entitled to share equally with him in the estate; and an affidavit, of the same date, of chiefs and headmen of the tribe
to the relationship of the other deponents to Moose Dung the
elder, but saying nothing as to their rights of inheritance.
Each of these affidavits was signed with the mark of the
deponent, and taken by a notary public. The agent reported
that he considered this evidence reliable, and had no doubt
that these six descendants of the old chief Moose Dung were
his only living heirs, and were entitled to share equally in his
estate. 3d. A letter, dated April 9, 1895, from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of the Interior,
recommending that these six persons "be determined to be
the heirs of old chief Moose Dung for the purposes of this
lease, and that the rents arising from leasing the land granted
him by said treaty be divided among them equally." 4th. A
letter, dated April 23, 1895, from the Secretary of the Interior
to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, concurring in the
recommendation, and returning the .papers. 5th., A letter,
dated May 4, 1895, from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
to the Indian agent, informing him of the decision of the
Secretary of the Interior, and directing him to distribute
the proceeds of the lease in his hands in accordance with that
decision.
The defendant, at the same time, against the like objection,
introduced six receipts, dated May 25, 1895, respectively

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

signed by the mark of Moose Dung the younger, and of each
of the five other descendants of Moose Dung the elder,
acknowledging the receipt from the Indian agent of one sixth
of $200, "being my share for two qjuarters rental on lands
leased to Ray W. Jones ;" and a lease, executed July 19, 1895,
by Moose Dung the younger and the five other descendants
of his father to the defendant, for twenty years from July 20,
1894, of the lot described in the lease to the defendant of that
date, the defendant paying rent according to the conditions
of that lease, as amended and approved by the Secretary of
the Interior.
On the coming in of the court on September 3, 1895, the
defendant's solicitor - pursuant to a notice given by him to
the plaintiffs' solicitor on August 3, 1895, after all the evidence in the case had been taken - moved the court for leave
to file a supplemental answer, alleging that Moose Dung the
younger and the five other descendants of his father, above
mentioned, were each entitled to one sixth of the land in
controversy; and had, in accordance with the lease made by
Moose Dung the younger to the defendant in 1894 and its
approval by the Secretary of the Interior, been paid their
shares of the rent provided for in that lease and approval;
and had likewise themselves executed a lease ratifying and
confirming that lease.
On September 9, 1895, the court denied the motion for
leave to file the supplemental answer; on September 17, 1895,
the cause -was argued and submitted ; and on November 9,
1895, the court entered the final decree for the plaintiffs.
The present contention of the defendant that the right of
the elder Moose Dung in the reservation passed, upon his
death, not to his eldest son alone, but to the other children
and grandchildren jointly with the eldest son, was clearly
inadmissible under the allegations of the original answer.
The question whether a supplemental answer should be allowed was a matter within the discretion of the court, largely
depending upon the circumstances of the particular case.
Hardin v. Boyd, 113 U. S. 756 ; nmitA v. Babcock, 3 Sumner,
583. The reasons for denying the motion in this case are

JONES v. MEEHAI.
Opinion of the Court.

not stated in the record. They may have been the late stage
of the case at which the motion was made, and a failure to
satisfy the court that the facts now attempted to be set up
were not known, or, at least, easily accessible, to the defendant or his solicitor long before. But as this court might,
even now, if justice appeared to require it, allow an amendment of the pleadings, this part of the case may be more satisfactorily disposed of by considering what the effect of those
facts would have been, had they been duly pleaded. Liver_ool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 .U.S. 397, 447; lViggins Ferry v. Ohio & Mississippi Railway, 142 U. S. 396, 413,
414.
The Department of the Interior appears to have assumed
that, upon the death of Moose Dung the elder, in 1872, the
title in his land descended by law to his heirs general, and
not to his eldest son only.
But the elder Chief Moose. Dung being a member of an
Indian tribe, whose tribal organization was still recognized by
the Government of the United States, the right of inheritance
in his land, at the time of his death, was controlled by the
laws, usages and customs of the tribe, and not by the law of
the State of Minnesota, nor by any action of the Secretary of
the Interior.
In United States v. Shanks, (1870) 15 Ninnesota, 369, it was
adjudged by the Supreme Court of Minnesota that a probate
court of the State had no jurisdiction over the estate of a
chief of a tribe of Chippewa Indians, to whom a section of
land, to be located by the Secretary of the Interior, had been
"granted in fee simple" by the treaty between the United
States and that tribe of May 7,1864, (13 Stat. 693,) and had
accordingly been located and a patent therefor issued to him.
See also -Dolev. Irish,(1848) 2 Barb. 639; Hastings v. Farmer,
(1850) 4 N. Y. 293, 294.
In one of the cases reported under the name of The Kansas
Indians, (1866) 5 Wall. 731, this court, reversing the judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas in Blue Jacket v.
Johnson County, 3 Kansas, 299, held that lands which, pursuant to the treaty of May 10, 1854, between the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and the Shawnee nation of Indians, (10 Stat. 1063,) had been
patented to a chief of that nation, were not subject to taxation by the State of Kansas so long as the tribal organization
remained and was recognized by the political department of
the Government; and Mr. Justice Davis, in delivering judgment, said: "This people have their own customs and laws by
which they are governed. Because some of those customs
have been abandoned, owing to the proximity of their white
neighbors, may be an evidence of the superior influence of
our race, but does not tend to prove that their tribal organization is not preserved. There is no evidence in the record to
show that the Indians with separate estates have not the
same rights in the tribe as those whose estates are held in
common." "As long as the United States recognize their
national character, they are under the protection of treaties
and the laws of Congress, and their property is withdrawn
from the operation of state laws." 5 Wall. '756, 757. See
also the opinion delivered by Judge Woods, with the concurrence of Mr. Justice Harlan, in the Circuit Court, in Wauemanqua v. Aldrich, (1886) 28 Fed. Rep. 489, 495.
Following that decision of this court, it was held by the
Supreme Court of Kansas, in an opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Brewer, that land patented to an Indian woman of the
Shawnee tribe under the treaty of 1854, descended, upon her
death, according to the law of her tribe, and not according to
the Kansas statute of descents. -Brown v. Steele, (1880) 23
Kansas, 672.
In Richardville v. Thorp, (1886) 28 Fed. Rep. 52, which
concerned the inheritance of land patented by the United
States to a member of the confederated tribes of Kaskaskia,
Peoria, Pinkeshaw and Wea Indians, and in which there was
no evidence of any particular law or custom of those tribes,
it was held that the rightful heirs of the patentee might
maintain their title in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Kansas against one claiming under a deed
from two of those heirs, approved by the Secretary of the
Interior upon a certificate of two chiefs of the tribe that the
two grantors were the sole heirs of the patentee; Mr. Justice.

JONTES v. IEEHAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Brewer, then Circuit Judge, saying that the Secretary of the
Interior "had no judicial power to adjudge a forfeiture, to
decide questions of inheritance, or to divest the owner of his
title without his knowledge or consent."
Upon the evidence contained in this record, it is qtite clear
that, by the laws, usages and customs of the Chippewa Indians,
old Moose Dung's eldest son and successor as chief inherited
'the land of his father, to the exclusion of other descendants.
Both the half-breed Morrison and the younger Moose Dung,
being fully examined on this'point, so testified; and there
was no direct testimony to. the contrary. Morrison had
lived with the Red Lake band of Chippewas all his life, spoke
their language, and knew their laws, customs and usages;
and there is nothing whatever in the case that throws any
doubt on the trustworthiness of his testimony. The only
matters mliat can be supposed to lessen the weight of Moose
Dungs testimony are an affidavit, a receipt and a lease, each
signed with his mark in 1895, more than three years after the
lease to the plaintiffs, and wholly incompetent as independent
evidence against them. That affidavit, in which he stated
that the two daughters and the three grandchildren were the.
only legal heirs of his father beside himself and were entitled
to share with him in the estate, was procured from him by
the Indian agent under direction of the Secretary of the
Interior, and, as well as the receipt, was evidently considered
by him as mere matter of form with which he was obliged to'
comply in order to get any part of the rent under the lease of
1894%. That it made little impression on his mind is evident
from the fact that, when afterwards examined as a witness in
this case, in the presence of the counsel for both parties, he
testified that no one had ever said anything to him about
the daughters and grandchildren having some interest in the
land. And it is not without significance that the other
chiefs and headmen of the tribe, from whom, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, affidavits were likewise obtained to the relationship between old Moose Dung
and his six descendants, said nothing, and do not appear to
have been asked anything, as to the right of inheritance, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

as to the laws, customs and usages of the Indians upon that
subject.
The title to the strip of land in controversy, having been
granted by the United States to the elder chief Moose Dung
by the treaty itself, and having descended, upon his death, by
the laws, customs and usages of the tribe, to his eldest son and
successor as chief, Moose Dung the younger, passed by the
lease executed by the latter in 1891 to the plaintiffs for the
term of that lease; and their rights under that lease could not
be divested by any subsequent action of the lessor, or of Congress, or of the Executive Departments. The construction
of treaties is the peculiar province of the judiciary; and,except in cases purely political, Congress has no constitutional
power to settle the rights under a treaty, or to affect titles
already granted by the treaty itself. Wilsomv. Wall, 6 Wall.
83, 89; Reichart v. Felps, 6 Wall. 160; -Smnitk v. Stevens, 10
Wall. 321, 327; Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall. 211,24:7.
The Congressional resolution of 1894, and the subsequent
proceedings in the Department of the Interiori must therefore
be held to be of no effect upon the rights previously acquired
by the plaintiffs by the lease to them from the younger chief;
and the
-Decreeis ctjzrmed.

SCUDDER v. COMPTROLLER OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE

SURROGATE'S

COURT OF THE COUNTY OF NEW

YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 55. Argued October 18, 1899.-Decided October 30, 1699.

A judgment of the highest court of a State, upholding the validity of a tax
assessed under a statute of the State, upon money deposited with a trust
company in the State by a resident of another State, cannot be reviewed
by this court on writ of error upon the ground that the proceedings
were repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, when no such
ground appears to have been taken by the plaintiff in error, or considered
by any court of the State, before the final judgment.

