MALONY v. ADSIT.
Statement of the Case.

jurisdiction to review that judgment; and the writ of error is
accordingly
1Dismirsed.

MALONY v. ADSIT.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF

-THE

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 67. Argued October 25, 26, 1899.-Decided December 4, 1899.

Allowing and signing a bill of exceptions is a judicial act, which can only be
performed by the judge who sat at the trial; and section 953 of the
Revised Statutes is intended to provide and does provide that no bill of
exceptions can b6 deemed sufficiently authenticated, unless signed by the
judge who sat at the trial, or by the presiding judge if more than one
sat.
This action being an action of ejectment, the provision in ยง 3524 of the Oregon Code with regard to actions for forcible entry and detainer have no
application to it.

IN May, 1896, Ohlin H. Adsit filed a complaint against John
F. Malony in the United States District Court for the District
of Alaska, to recover possession of the undivided one half of a
tract of land in the town of Juneau, District of Alaska. The
complaint averred that on the 29th day of April, 1891, and for
more than nine years prior thereto, the plaintiff and his grantors
were the owners by right of prior occupancy and actual possession, of the land in question, and that plaintiff was entitled to
the possession thereof; that one James Whim was the owner
of the other undivided one half part of said land; that on or
about the 29th day of April, 1891, the defendant and his
grantor, without right or title so to do, entered thereon, and
ousted and ejected the plaintiff, and his grantors therefrom,
and from thence hitherto have wrongfully withheld possession
from the plaintiff.
The plaintiff prayed judgment for the recovery of the possession of an undivided one half part or interest of, in and to the
wholb of the described premises, and for his costs and disbursements in the action.

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of' the Case.

On June 8, 1896, the defendant demurred to the complaint,
on the alleged ground that the same did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
On October 9, 1896, the court overruled the demurrer, and
gave leave to the defendant to file an answer. An answer
and replication thereto were filed. The case was tried August
10, 1897, before Arthur K. Delany, District Judge, a jury
having been waived. Judge Delany made the following
findings of facts and conclusions of law:
"This cause having been riegularly called for trial before
the court -a jury trial having been expressly waived by
stipulation in open court of the respective parties appearing
herein - Johnson & Heid appeared as attorneys for the plaintiff and John F. Malony, the defendant herein, appeared in
proper person; and the court having heard the proofs of the
respective parties and considered the same and the records
and papers in the cause and the arguments of thq respective
attorneys thereon, and the cause having been submitted to the
court for its decision, the court now finds the following facts:
"I. That on the 19th day of April, 1881, the plaintiff and
his grantors entered into actual possession of all that certain
lot, piece or parcel of land described in the complaint as lot
numbered four (4), in block numbered four (4), in the town of
Juneau, District of Alaska, according to the plat and survey
of said town of Juneau made by one G. 0. Hanus, accepted
and adopted in the year 1881 by the citizens of the town
formerly known as Rockwell, but now Juneau, Alaska, said
lot being situated on the corner of Second and Franklin streets,
in said town of Juneau, claiming said lot, piece or parcel of
land in their own right; and the said plaintiff and his grantors
have, ever since the date last aforesaid, occupied, used and
possessed said lot or piece or parcel of land, having erected a
substantial frame or wooden building or structure thereon,
using and claiming the same in their own right from that
date to the present time adversely to all the world, and
especially as against the defendant.
* "II. That the plaintiff is the owner of an undivided one
half ( ) part or interest of, in and to said lot No. 4, in said

MAL O NY v. ADSIT.
Statement of the Case.

block No. 4, hereinbefore described, and that the whole of
said lot, piece or parcel of land in the complaint described
lies within the said town of Juneau, Alaska.
"III. That on or about the 29th day of April, 1891, the
defendant, without right or title so 'to do, entered on and
upon said described lot, piece or parcel of land in the complaint described, and ousted and ejected the plaintiff and his
grantors therefrom, and from thence hitherto has wrongfully
withheld the possession thereof from the said plaintiff.
"As conclusions of -law from the foregoing facts the court
now hereby finds and decides:
"1. That the plaintiff is the owner and entitled to the possession of an undivided one' half part or interest of, in and
to said lot, piece or parcel of land as the same is described
in the complaint on file herein as against the defendant and
all persons claiming or to'claim the same or any part of said
right or interest of the plaintiff in and to said lot, piece or
parcel of land under him, the said defendant, and that the
defendant has no right, title or interest in or to said land or
any part thereof.
"2. That the plaintiff is entitled to a judgment, as prayed
for in his complaint, for the recovery of the possession of an
undivided one half part or interest of, in and to said lot No.
4, in said block No. 4, in said town of Juneau, against said
defendant and all persons claiming or to claim the same or
any part thereof under or through the said defendant.
"3. That the plaintiff is entitled to a judgment for costs,
to be taxed herein, against the defendant.
"And judgment is hereby ordered to be entered accordingly."
On August 11, 1897, a motion for a new trial was made
and overruled. Judgment for the plaintiff was duly entered,
and on September 20, 1897, the plaintiff was put in possession of the premises in dispute, in pursuance of a writ of possession allowed by Charles S. Johnson, Judge of the United
States District. Court, who had succeeded Arthur R. Delany
to that office.
On September 6, 1897, the defendant gave notice of an

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit. On January 4, 1898, the defendant, acting
on a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States,
wherein it was held that such causes were not appealable to
the. Circuit Court of Appeals, but that appeals in such cases
should be prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the United
States, prayed for an appeal to this court, which was on said
day allowed as prayed for by Judge Johnson.
On January 4, 1898, a bill of exceptions was filed, to
which was appended a statement, signed by the respective
counsel, that the bill of exceptions was correct and in accordance with the proceedings had in the trial of the cause; and
the record discloses that, on said 4th of January, 1898, the
bill of exceptions was settled and allowed by Judge Johnson.
X1.

MiM.I. T. _Xichener for appellant. .XM.
Oscar Foote were on his brief.

TV.
IF. Dudley and

Mr. S.
Stockslager for appellee. .Mr. George . Bleard
was on his brief.
MR.

JUSTICE SHmAS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
An inspection of this record discloses that the bill of exceptions was not settled, allowed and signed by the judge who
tried the case, but by his successor in office, several months
after the trial. It is settled that allowing and signing a bill
of exceptions is a judicial act, which can only be performed
by the judge who sat at the trial. What took place at the
trial, and is a proper subject of exception, can only be judicially known by the judge who has acted in that capacity.
Such knowledge cannot be brought to a judge who did not
participate in the trial or to a judge who has succeeded to a
judge who did, by what purports to be a bill of exceptions,
but which has not been signed and allowed by the trial judge.
Section 953 of the Revised Statutes is as follows: "A bill

MALONY v. ADSIT.
Opinion of the Court.

of exceptions allowed in any cause shall be deemed sufficiently
authenticated if signed by the judge of the court in which the.
cause was tried, or by the presiding judge thereof, if more
than one judge sat at the trial of the cause, without any seal
of court or judge being annexed thereto."
We understand this enactment to mean that no bill of
exceptions .can be deemed suiciently authenticated unless
signed by the judge who sat at the trial, or by the presiding
judge if more than one sat.
In .ussina v. Cavazos, 6 Wall. 355, 363, after the case had
been elaborately argued on the merits, it was discovered by
the court that the bill of exceptions had not been either signed
or sealed by the judge below. Thereupon the court delivered
the following opinion: ".Whatever might be our opinion- of
the exceptions which appear in the record, if they we're presented in such a way that we could consider them, we find
them beyond our reach. The bill of exceptions, or what
purports to be a bill of exceptions, covering more than three
hundred and fifty pages of the printed record, is neither
signed nor sealed by the judge who tried the cause; and
there is nothing which shows that it was submitted to him
or in any way received his sanction. We are therefore constrained to affirm the judgment."
Boroscale v. Bosworth, a case reported in 98 Mass. 34, presented a somewhat similar question. Then a judge of thetrial court took a bill of exceptions that had been substantially agreed on by the parties and duly filed, to examine
whether the statement of his rulings was correct, with the
understanding that if correct he should allow the bill. However, the judge retained the bill without allowing it for more
than a year, and resigned his office without having done so.
Afterwards, in such circumstances, a motion was made for a
new trial in the trial court, and: allowed. To the ruling
which allowed a new trial the plaintiffs took an exception
and carried the case to the Supreme Judicial Court. That
court refused to disturb the order of the court below awarding a new trial, and held that where it appears to the court
that a party has been deprived, without his fault, of a right

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

or remedy which the law gives him, it would generally be
held a legal reason for granting a new trial. The court cited
the English cases of lNind v. Arthur, 7 Dowl. & Lowndes,
252, where upon the death of Mr. Justice Coltman, before
allowing a bill of exceptions which had been presented to
him, a new trial was granted; also Bennett v. P. & 0. Steamship Company, 16 C. B. 29, where the settling of a bill of
exceptions having been delayed by the appointment of Chief
Justice Wilde as Lord Chancellor, and afterwards by reason
of his infirm health all hope of it having been lost, a new trial
was granted by the trial court. Also the case of ffrewton v.
Boodle, 3 C. B. 796, where the death of Chief Justice Tindal
prevented the sealing of a bill of exceptions, without laches
of the excepting party, was regarded as good ground for a
motion for a new trial.
The rationaleof these cases evidently was that the court of
errors could not consider a bill of exceptions that had not
been signed by the judge who tried the case, and that such
failure or omission could not be supplied by agreement of the
parties, but that the only remedy was to be found in a motion
for a new trial.
Those cases were cited with approval by this court in Hlume
v. Bowie, 148 U. S. 245, where it was held that where. the
judge presiding at the trial of a cause in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia at circuit dies without having
settled a bill of exceptions, it is in order for a motion to be
made to set aside the verdict and order a new trial, and that,
where such an order is made by the court in general term, it
is not a final judgment from which an appeal may be taken
to this court. It is true that therejis a rule of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia which provides that in
case the judge is unable to settle the bill of exceptions and
counsel cannot settle it by agreement a new trial shall be
granted, and that this court regarded that rule as applying to
the case in hand, and that hence a new trial was a matter of
course.
In Young v. .fartin, 8 Wall. 354, where the exceptions
were noted by the clerk of the trial court and so appeared

VMALONY" v. ADSIT.
Opinion of the Court.

in the record, it was held that "to be of any avail exceptions
must not oxrly be drawn up so as to present distinctly ihe
ruling of the court upon the points raised, but they must be
signed and sealed by the presiding judge. Unless so signed
and sealed they do not constitute any part of the record
which can be considered by an -appellate court."
In Origet v. United Stwe; 125 U. S. 240, 243, the record
contained a paper headed "Bill of Exceptions." At the foot
of the paper appeared the following: "Allowed and ordered
on file, Nov. 22, '83. A. B." And it was held, "This cannot
be regarded as a proper signature by the judge to a bill of
exceptions, nor can the paper be regarded for the purposes
of review as a bill of exceptions.

.

.

.

Sec. 953 of the

Revised Statutes merely dispensed with the seal. The necessity for the signature still remains. We cannbt regard the
initials 'A. B.' as the signature of the judge, or as a sufficient
authentication of the bill of exceptions, or as sufficient evidence of its allowance by the judge or court. Therefore the
questions purporting to be raised by the paper cannot be considered.".
In State v. TWeelkittle, 61 Maryland, 51, it was said: "In this
State it is not admissible for another judge to pass upon the
correctness of his predecessor's ruling in such a case. The
new trial will go as a matter of course."
It certainly cannot be contended that if the trial judge is
able officially to sign the bill of exceptions, it would be competent for the counsel to dispense with his action, and rely
upon an agreed statement of the facts and law of the case as
tried. Nor can they agree that another than the trial judge
may perform his functions in that regard. In ]ynde v. Craney,
95 Michigan, 109, it was said that the practice of stipulating
a bill of exceptions without the sanction of the judge cannot
be commended; and if such fact be brought to the attention
of the court before the argument of the case, the appeal will
be dismissed.
In Coburn v. .furray, 2 Maine, 336, it was held that a bill
unauthenticated by the trial judge cannot be given validity
by consent of counsel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

We are referred to no decision of this court on the precise
question whether counsel can stipulate the correctness of a
bill of exceptions not signed by the trial judge. But we
think that on principle this cannot be done, and we regard
the cases just cited as sound statements of the law.
Accordingly, our conclusion is that the errors of the trial
court alleged in the bill of exceptions, unauthenticated by
the signature of the judge who sat at the trial, cannot be
considered by us.
The defendant's demurrer to the complaint, on the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, having been overruled, and the defendant not having
elected to stand on his demurrer, but having availed himself
of the leave of the court to file an answer, and his several
objections to the admission of evidence at the trial not having
been brought before us by a proper bill of exceptions, all that
is left for us to consider is whether, on the facts found by the
court below, the plaintiff was entitled to judgment.
Those facts, briefly stated, were that the plaintiff and his
grantors on April 19, 1881, entered into actual possession of
the land in dispute; put substantial improvements thereon;
and'continued in possession, under claim of right, and adversely
against the defendant and all others, till on April 29, 1891, the
defendant, without right or title so to do, entered upon the said
land, and ejected the plaintiff therefrom; that the plaintiff was
the owner of an undivided one half part or interest of, in and
to said land in the complaint described, and that the defendant
wrongfully withheld the san~e from him.
From the findings the court dr~w the conclusions of law that
the plaintiff was entitled to recover possession of the said land
in dispute, being the undivided one half part or interest of, in
and to said lot No. 4, in said block No. 4, in said town of
Juneau, against said defendant and all persons claiming under
him, and to recover a judgment for said possession and for
costs.
The appellant now contends that, under section 318 of Hill's
Oregon Code, (which by the act of May 17,1884: -23 Stat. 84
- was made applicable to Alaska, and which is in the follow-

MAI

1 NY

v. ADSIT.

289

Opinion of the Court.

ing terms: "The plaintiff in his complaint shall set forth the
nature of his estate in the property, whether it be in fee, for
life, or for a term of years, and for whose life or the duration
of such term, and that he is entitled to the possession thereof,
and that the defendant wrongfully withholds the same from
him, to his damage such sum as may be therein claimed,") the
plaintiff failed to plead the nature of his estate in the property,
"whether it be in fee, for life or for a
term of years.
Without stopping to consider whether the defendant could
be heard to again raise a question that had been decided against
him on his demurrer to the complaint, we think that the objection is not a sound one. The plaintiff alleged, and the court has
found, that for more than nine years prior to April 29, 1891, he
and his grantors were the owners by right of prior occupancy
and actual possession of the land in dispute.
In the condition of things in Alaska under the act of May
17, 1884, c. 53, 23 Stat. 24, providing a civil government for
Alaska, and under the twelfth section of the act of March 3,
1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1094, 1100, the only titles that could be
,held were those arising by reason of possession and continued
possession, which might ultimately ripen into a fee simple title
under letters patent issued to such prior claimant when Congress
might so provide by extending the general land laws or otherwise. Davenport v. Lamb, 13 Wall. 418.
In Bennett v. Rarerader,158 U. S. 441, 447, brought to this
court by a writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the District of Alaska, it was said by Mr. Justice
Brewer, in disposing of a somewhat similar objection: "Where
the complaint alleges that the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of certain described property, which is unlawfully detained
by the defendant, and the possession of which the plaintiff
prays to recover, a general verdict for the plaintiff is a finding
that he is entitled to the possession of all the property described
in the complaint. Again, in this action, brought under a special statute of the United States in support of an adverse claim,
but one estate is involved in the controversy. No title in fee
is or can be established. That remains in the United States,
and the only question presented is the priority of right to purVOL. CLXXV -

19

OCTOBER TERM, 1899
Opinion of the Court.

chase the fee. Hence the inapplicability of a statute regulating
generally actions for the recovery of real estate, in which actions
different kinds of title may be sufficient to sustain the right of
recovery. It would be purely surplusage to find in terms a
priority of the right to purchase when that is the only question
which can be litigated in such statutory action."
This principle applies more strongly to the present case, in
which the real nature of the plaintiff's estate in the property
is truly alleged as ownership by right of prior occupancy and
actual possession, and was so found to be by the trial court.
The same view of the nature of a title to a lot in a townsite
in Alaska, under these acts of Congress, was expressed by the
District Court of the United States for the District of Alaska,
in the case of Carroll v. Price, 81 Fed. Rep. 137. As, then,
the only kind of estate that could be held was that of possession, it was sufficient for the plaintiff to allege that his was of
that nature.
It is next contended on behalf of the plaintiff in error that,
even if the complaint should be held otherwise sufficient, yet
the action must fail because coming within section 3524, Hill's
Oregon Code, which is as follows: "In an action to recover
the possession of any land, tenement or other real property,
where the entry is forcible, or where the possession is unlawfully held by force, the merits of the title shall not be inquired
into; and three years' quiet possession of the premises immediately preceding the -commencement of such action by the
party in possession, or those under whom he holds, may be
pleaded in bar thereof, unless the estate of such party is
ended."
It is argued that, as the complaint was filed in the court
below May 25, 1896, more than five years from the day of
entry alleged in the complaint, and as the defendant pleaded
in bar of the action the three years' quiet possession of the
premises immediately preceding its commencement, the defendant is entitled to a judgment of reversal.
If this were indeed an action in forcible entry and detainer,
and as the complaint shows on its face that the defendant's
possession was longer than three years prior to the commence.

BRADFIELD v. ROBERTS.
Syllabus.

ment of the action, then the defendant was entitled to have
had his demurrer sustained. But he did not stand on his
demurrer, but availed himself of the court's leave to answer;
and hence it might well be questioned whether it was competent for him to again raise in his answer a question already
ruled against him under his demurrer.
But this it is unnecessary to consider, because it is altogether
clear that, on the complaint and the facts found, this was not
an action for a forcible entry and detainer, under the section of
the Oregon Code pleaded by the defendant, but was an action
of ejectment to which the statute pleaded did not apply.
The judgment of the District Court of the United States for
the District of Alaska is
Afimed.

BRADFIELD v. ROBERTS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 76. Argued October 27, 1S99. -Decided

December 4,1899.

The Providence Hospital of the city of Washington was incorporated by
the act of Congress of August 7, 1864, c. 50, 13 Stat. 43, which gave to
it "1full power and all the rights of opening and keeping a hospital in
the city of Washington for the care of such sick and invalid persons
as may place themselves under the treatment and care of the said corporation." By the act of March 3, 1897, c. 387, 29 Stat. 665, making
appropriations for the District of Columbia, an appropriation of $30,000
was made for two isolating buildings, to be constructed in the discretion
of the Commissioners of the District, on the grounds of two hospitals,
and to be operated as a part of such hospitals. Under that authority
the Commissioners made an agreement with the Providence Hospital,
which was a private hospital, in charge of sisters of the Roman Catholic Church, for the construction of an isolating building or ward on
the hospital grounds, and for the receipt therein of poor patients sent
there by the Commissioners, and for payments by the District on that
account to the hospital. Yeld, that the agreement was one which it was
within the power of the Commissioners to make; and that it did not conflict with the provision in Article I of the Amendments to the Constitution that "1Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion,"

