THE PAQUETE HABANA.
Syllabus.

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
THE LOLA.
APPEALS FROm THE DISTRICT COQUT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Nos. 895, 896. Argued November 7, 8,1899.-Declded January 5,1900.
Under the act of Congress of March 3, 1891, c. 517, this court has jurisdiction of appeals from all final sentences and decrees in prize causes, without regard to the amount in dispute, and without any certificate of the
District Judge as to the importance of the particular case.
International law is part of our law, and must be ascertained and administered by the courts of justice of appropriate jurisdiction, as often as
questions of right depending'upon it are duly presented for their determination. For this purpose, where there is no treaty, and no controlling
executive or legislative act or judicial decision, resort must be had to
the customs and usages of civilized nations; and, as evidence of these,
to the works of jurists and commentators, not for the speculations of
their authors concerning what the law ought to be, but for trustworthy
evidence of what the law really is.
At the present day, by the general consent of the civilized nations of the
world, and independently of any express treaty or other public act, it is
an established rule of international law that coast fishing vessels, with
their implements and supplies, cargoes and crews, unarmed, and honestly
pursuing their peaceful calling of catching and bringing in fresh fish,
are exempt from capture as prize of war. And this rule is one which
prize courts, administering the law of nations, are bound to take judicial
notice of, and to give effect to, in the absence of any treaty or other public act of their own government in relation to the matter.
At the breaking out of the recent war with Spain, two fishing smadksthe one a sloop, 43 feet long on the.keel and of 25 tons burden, and with
a crew of three men, and the other a schooner, 51 feet long on the keel
regularly
and of 35 tons burden, and with a crew of six men -were
engaged in fishing on the coast of Cuba, sailing under the Spanish flag,
and each owned by a Spanish subject, residing in Havana; her crew,
who also resided there, had no interest in the vessel, but were entitled to
shares, amounting in all to two thirds, of her catch, the other third
belonging to her owner; and her cargo consisted of fresh fish, caught by
her crew from the sea, put on board as they were caught, and kept and
sold alive. Each vessel left Havana on a coast fishing voyage, and sailed
along the coast of Cuba about two hundred miles to the west end of
the island; the sloop there fished for twenty-five days in the territorial
waters of Spain; and the schooner extended her fishing trip a hundred

OCTOBER TERJ, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
miles farther across the Yucatan Channel, and fished for eight days on
the coast of Yucatan. On her return, with her cargo of live fish, along
the coast of Cuba, and when near Havana, each was captured by one
of the United States blockading squadron. Neither fishing vessel had any
arms or ammunition on board; had any knowledge of the blockade, or
even of the war, until she was stopped by a blockading vessel; made any
attempt to run the blockade, or any resistance at the time of her capture; nor was there any evidence that she, or her crew, was likely to aid
the enemy. Held, that both captures were unlawful, and without probable cause.

THE cases are stated in the opinion of the court.

_Mr. J.ParkerXirli for appellants.
-Mr. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for the United States.
.Mr. Joseph E. .Ao Cammon: and Mr1. James H. Hayden file d
a brief for the captors. Ab. George A. Zing and .Mr. William B. King filed a brief "for certain captors."
'MR. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

These are two appeals from decrees of the District Court of
the United States for the Southern District of Florida, condemning two fishing vessels and their cargoes as prize of war.
Each vessel was a fishing smack, running in and out of
Havana, and regularly engaged in fishing on the coast of
Cuba; sailed under the Spanish flag; was owned by a Spanish
subject of Cuban birth; living in .the city of Havana; was commanded by a subject of Spain, also residing in Havana; and
her master and crew had no interest in the vessel, but were
entitled to shares, amounting in all to two thirds, of her catch,
the other third belonging to her owner. Her cargo consisted
of fresh fish, caught by her crew from the sea, put on board
as they were caught, and kept and sold alive. Until stopped
by the blockading squadron, she had no knowledge of the
existence of the war, or of any blockade. She had no arms
or ammunition on board, and made no attempt to run the
blockade after she knew of its existence, nor any resistance
at the time of the capture.
The Paquete Habana was a sloop, 43 feet long on the keel,

THE PAQUEME HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

and of 25 tons burden, and had a crew of three Cubans, including the master, who had a fishing license from the Spanish
Government, and no other commission or license. She left
Havana March 25, 1898; sailed along the coast of Cuba to
Cape San Antonio at the western end of the island, and there
fished for twenty-five days, lying between the reefs off the
cape, within the territorial waters of Spain; and then started
back for Havana, with a cargo of about 40 quintals of live
fish. On April 25, 1898, about two miles off IMfariel, and
eleven miles from Havana, she was captured by the United
States gunboat Castine.
The Lola was a schooner, 51 .feet long on the keel, and of
35 tons burden, and had a crew of six Cubans, including the
master, and no commission or license. She left Havana April
11, 1898,,and proceeded to Campeachy Sound off Yucatan,
fished'there eight days, and started back .for Havana with a
cargo of about 10,000 pounds of live fish. On April 26, 1898,
near Havana, she was stopped by the United States steamship'
Cincinnati, and was warned not to go into Havana, but was
told that she would be allowed to land at Bahia Honda. She
then changed her course, and put for Bahia Honda, but on the
next morning, when near that port, was captured by the United
States steamship Dolphin.
Both the fishing vessels were brought by their captors into
iKey West. A libel for-the condemnation of each vessel and
her cargo as prize of war was there filed on April 27,'1898;
a. claim was interposed by her master, on behalf of himself
and the other memhbers of the crew, and of her owner; evidence was taken, showing the facts above stated; and on
May 30, 1898, a final decree of condemanation and sale was
entered, "the court not being satisfied that as a matter of
law, without any ordinance, treaty or proclamation, fishing
vessels of this class are exempt 'from seizure."
Each vessel was thereupon sold by auction; the Paquete
Habana for the sum of $490; and the Lola for the sum of
$800.
There was no other evidence in the record of the'
value of either vessel or of her cargo.
It has been suggested, in behalf of the United States, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

this court has no jurisdiction to hear and determine these
appeals, because the matter in dispute in either case does not
exceed the suii or value of $2000Y and the District Judge has
kot certified that the adjudication involves a question- of general importance.
The suggestion is founded on section 695 of the Revised
Statutes, which provides that "an appeal shall be allowed to
the Supreme Court from all final decrees of any District Court
in prize caus6s where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars; and shall
be allowed, without reference to the matter in dispute, on the
certificate of the District Judge that the adjudication involves
a question of general importance."
The Judiciary Acts of the United States, for a century after
the organization of the Government under the Constitution, did
impose pecuniary limits upon appellate jurisdiction.
In actions at law and suits in equity, the pecuniary limit of
the appellate jurisdijtion of this court from the Circuit Courts
'of. the United Siates was for a long time fixed at $2000. Acts.
of Septemhber 24, 11(89, c. 20, § 22; 1 Stat.'84; March 3,'1803,
c. 40; 2 Stat. 244; Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Pet. 33; Rev. Stat.was raised to $5000. Act of Febru§§ 691, 692. In 1875 'it
ary 16, 1875, o. 77, § 3 ; 18 Stat. 316. And in 1889 this was
mo dified by providing that, where the judgment or decree did
not exceed the sum of $5000, this court should have appellate
jurisdiction upon the question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, and upon that question only. Act of February 25, 1889,
c. 236, -§1 ;.25 Stat. 693 ; Parker v. Ormsby, 141 U. S.81.
As to cases of admiralty and" maritime jurisdiction, including prize causes, the Judiciary Act of 1789, in § 9, vested
the original jurisdiction in the District Courts, without regard
to the sum or value in controversy; and in § 21, permitted
an appeal from them to the Circuit Court where the matter in dispute exceeded the sum or value of $300. 1 Stat.
'77, 83; The Betsey, 3 Dall. 6, 16; The Amiable -Nancy,
3 Wheat. 546; Statton v. Jarvis,8 Pet. 4, 11. By the act
of March 3, 1803, c. 40, appeals to the Circuit Court were
permitted from all final decrees of a District Court where

THE PAQUETE HABAINA.
Opinion of the Court.

the matter in dispute exceeded the sum or value of $50;
and from the Circuit Courts to this court in all cases "of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and of prize or no prize,"
in which the matter in dispute exceeded the sum or value
of $2000. 2 Stat. 244; Jenks v. Lewis, 3 Mason, 503; Stratton v. Jarvis, above cited; The Admiral, 3 Wall. 603, 612.
The acts of March 3, 1863, c. 86, § 7, and June 30, 1864,
c. 174, § 13, provided that appeals from the District' Courts
in prize causes should lie directly to this court, where the
amount in controversy exceeded $2000, "or on the certificate
'of the District Judge that the adjudication involves a question
of general importance.". 12 Stat. 760; 13 Stat. 310. The
provision of the act *of 1803, omitting the words, "and of
prize or no prize," was reenacted in section 692 of the Revised Statutes; and the provision of the act of 1864, concerning prize causes, was substantially reenacted in section 695 of
the Revised Statutes, already quoted.
But all this has been changed by the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 51-7, establishing the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and creating a new and complete scheme .of appellate jurisdiction,
depending upon the nature of the different cases, rather than
upon the pecuniary amount involved. 26 Stat. 826.
By that act, as this court has declared, the entire appellate
jurisdiction from the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States was distributed, "according to the scheme of the act,"
between this court and the Circuit Courts of Appeals thereby
established, "by designating the classes of cases" of which
each of these courts was to have final jurisdiction. MLish v.
Rof,141 U. S.661, 666; American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville Railway, 148 U. S. 372, 382; Carey v. Houston &
Texas Railway, 150 U. S.170, 179.
The intention of Congress, by the act of 1891, to make the
nature of the case, and not the amount in dispute, the test of
the appellate jurisdiction of this court from the District and
Circuit Courts clearly appears upon examination of the leading provisions of the act.
Section 4 provides that no appeal, whether by writ of error
or otherwise, shall hereafter be taken from a District Court

-682

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

.to a Circuit Court; but that all appeals, by writ of error or
otherwise, from the District Courts, "shall only be subject to
review" in this court, or in the Circuit Court of Appeals, "as
is hereinafter provided," and " the review, by appeal, by writ
of error, or otherwise," from the Circuit Courts, "1shall be
had only" in this court, or in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
"according to the provisions of this act regfilating the same."
Section 5 provides that "appeals or writs of error may be
taken from the District Courts, or from the existing Circuit
Courts, direct to the Supreme Court, in the following cases:"
First. "In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is
in issue; in such cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall
be certified to the Supreme Court from the court below-for
decision." This clause includes "any case," without regard
to amount, in which the jurisdiction of the court below is in
issue; and differs in this respect from the act of. 1889, above
cited.
Second. "From the final sentences and decrees in prize
causes." This clause includes the whole class of "the final
sentences and decrees in prize causes," and omits all provisions of former acts regarding amount in controversy, or certificate of a District S'udge.
Third. "In cases of conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous crime." This clause looks to the nature of the crime,
and not to the extent of the punishment actually imposed.
A crime which might have been punished by imprisonment in
a penitentiary is an infamous crime, even if the sentence actually pronounced is of a small fine only. Ex parte Wilson,
114 U. S. 417, 426. Consequently, such a sentence for such a
crime was subject to the appellate jurisdiction of this court,
under this clause, until this jurisdiction, so'far as regards
crimes not capital, was transferred to the Circffit Court of
Appeals by the act of Tanuary 20, 1897, c. 68. 29 Stat. 492.
Fourth. "In any case that involves the construction ov
application of the Constitution of the United States."
Fifth. "In any case in which the constitutionality of any
law of the. United States, or the validity or construction of
any treaty made under its authority, is drawn in question."

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

Sixth. "In any case in which the constitution or law of a
State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of
the United States."
Each of these last three clauses, again, includes "any case"
of the class mentioned. They all relate to what are commonly
called Federal questions, and cannot reasonably be construed
to have intended that the appellate jurisdiction of this court
over such questions should be restrifted by any pecuniary
limit -especially
in their connection with the succeeding
sentence of the same section: "Nothing in this act shall
affect the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in cases appealed
from the highest court of a State, nor the construction of the
statute providing for review of such cases." Writs of error
from this court to review the judgments of the highest court
of a State upon such questions have never been subject to
any pecuniary limit. Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 25;
1 Stat. 85; BueZ v. Van Ness, 8 Wheat. 312; act of February 5, 1867, c. 28, § 2; 14 Stat. 386; Rev. Stat. § 709.
By section 6 of the act of 1891, this court is relieved of
much of the appellate jurisdiction that it had before; the
appellate jurisdiction from the District and Circuit Courts
"in all cases other than those provided for in the preceding
section of this act, unless otherwise provided by law," is vested
in the Circuit Court of Appeals; and its decisions in admiralty
cases, as well as in cases arising under the criminal laws, and
in certain other classes of cases, are made final, except that
that court may certify to this court questions of law, and that
this court may order up the whole case by writ of certiorari.
It is settled that the words "unless otherwise provided by
law," in this section, refer only to provisions of the same-act,
or of. contemporaneous or subsequent acts, and do not include
provisions of earlier statutes. Lau Ow Bew v. Unite States,
144 U.. S. 47, 57 ; Hubbard,v. S'oy, 146 U. S. 56; American
Construction Co. v. Jacksonville Railway, 148 U. S. 372, 383.
The act of 1891 nowhere imposes a pecuniary limit upon
the appellate jurisdiction, either of this court or of the Circuit Court of Appeals, from a District or Circuit Court of the
United States. The only pecuniary limit imposed is one of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

$1000 upon the appeal to this court of a case which has been
once decided on appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
in which the judgment of that court is not made final by
section 6 of the act.
Section 14 of the act of 1891, after specifically repealing
section 691 of the Revised Statutes and section 3 of the act
of February 16, 1875, further provides that ",all acts and parts
of acts relating to appeals or writs of error, inconsistent with
the provisions for review by appeals or writs of error in thb
preceding sections five and six of this act, are hereby repealed."
26 Stat. 829, 830. The object of the specific repeal, as this
court has declared, was to get rid of the pecuniary limit in
the acts referred to. ifcLish v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661, 667.
And, although- neither section 692 nor section 695 of the
Revised Statutes is repealed by name, yet, taking into consideration the general repealing clause, together with the
affirmative provisions of the act, the case comes within the
reason of the decision in an analogous case, in which this
court said: "The provisions relating to the subject-matter
under consideration are, however, o comprehensive, as well
as so variant from those of former acts, that we think the
intention-to substitute the one for the other is necessarily to
be inferred and must prevail." Fisk v. Renarie, 142 U. S.
459, 468.
The decision of this court in the recent case of United States
v. Rider, 163 U. S. 132, affords an important, if not controlling
precedent. From the beginning of this century until the passage of the act of 1891, both in civil and in criminal cases, questions of law, upon which two judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion, might be certified by them to this court
for decision. Acts of : April 29, 1862, c. 31, §.6 ; 2 Stat. 159 ;
June 1, 182, c. 255, § 1; 17 Stat. 196; Rev. Stat. §§ 650-652,
693, 697; Insurance Co. v. Dunham, 11 Wall. 1, 21; United
States v. &anges,144 U. S. 310, 320. But in United States v.
Rider, it was adjudged by this court that the act of 1891 had
superseded and repealed the earlier acts authorizing questions
of law to be certified from the Circuit Court to this court;
and the grounds of that adjudication sufficiently appear by

TIE PAQUETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

the statement of the effect of the act of 1891 in two passages
of the opinion: "Appellate jurisdiction was given in all
criminal cases by writ of error, either from this court or from
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, and in all civil cases by appeal
or error, without regard to the amount -in controversy, except
as.to appeals or writs of error to or from the Circuit Courts
of Appeals in cases not made final, as specified in § 6." "It
is true that repeals by implication are not favored, but we cannot escape the conclusion that, tested by its scope, its obvious
purpose and its terms, the act of March 3, 1891, covers the
whole subject-matter under consideration, and furnishes the
exclusive rule in respect of appellate jurisdiction on appeal,
writ of error or certificate." 163 U. S. 138-140.
That judgment was thus rested upon two successive propositions: First, that the act of 1891 gives appellate jurisdiction,
either to this court or to the Circuit Court of Appeals, in all
criminal cases, and in all civil cases "without regard to the
amount in controversy." Second, that the act, by its terms,
its scope and its obvious purpose, "furnishes the exclusive rule
in respect of appellate jurisdiction on appeal, writ of error or
certificate."
As was long ago said by Chief Justice Marshall, "the spirit
as well as the letter of a statute must be respected, and where
the whole context of the law demonstrates a particular intent
in the legislature to effect a certain object, some degree of
implication may be called in to aid that intent." Durousseau
v. United States, 6 Cranch, 307, 314. And it is a well settled
rule in the 'construction of statutes, often affirmed and applied
by this court, that, "even where two acts are -not in express
terms repugnant, yet if the latter act covers the whole subject
of the first, and embraces new provisions, plainly showing that
it was intended as a substitute for the first act, it will operate
as a repeal of that act." UnitedStates v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88,
92; King v. CornlZ, 106 U. S. 395, 396; T'aoY v. Tyrfly, 134
U. S. 206, 223; Fisk v. -Henarie,142 U. S. 459, 468; District
of Columbia v, Hutton, 143 U. S. 18, 27; United States v.
lealey, 160 U. S. 136, 147.
We are of opinion that the act of 1891, upon its face, read

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

in the light of settled rules of statutory construction, and of
the decisions of this court, clearly manifests the intention of
Congress to cover the whole subject of the appellate jurisdiction -from the District and Circuit Courts of the United States,
so far as regards in what cases, as well as to what courts,
appeals may be taken, and to supersede and repeal, to this
extent, all the provisions of earlier acts of Congress, including
those that imposed pecuniary limits upon such jurisdiction;
and, as part of the new scheme, to confer upon this court
jurisdiction of appeals from all final sentences and decrees in
prize causes, without regard to the amount in dispute, and
without any certificate of the District Judge as to the importance of the particular case.
We are then brought to the consideration of the question
whether, up6n the facts appearing in these records, the fishing smacks were .subject to capture by the armed vessels of
the United States during the recent war with Spain.
By an ancient usage among civilized nations, beginning
centuries ago, and gradually ripening into a rule of international law, coast fishing vessels, pursuing their vocation of
catching and bringing in fresh fish, have been recognized as
exempt, with their cargoes and crews, from capture as prize
of war.
This doctrine, however, has been earnestly contested at the
'bar; and no complete collection of the instances illustrating
it is to be found, so far as we are aware, in a single published
work, although many are referred to and discussed by the
writers on international law, notably in 2 Ortolan, R~gles
Iuternationales et Diplomatic de la Mer, (4th ed.) lib. 3,c. 2,
pp. 51-56 ; in 4 Calvo, Droit International, (5th ed.) %§ 23672373; in De Boeck, Propri~t& Priv~e Ennemie sous Pavilion
Ennemi, % 191-196; and in Hall, International Law, (4th.
ed.) § 148. It is therefore worth the while to trace the history of the rule, from the earliest accessible sources, through
the increasing recognition of it, with occasional setbacks, to
what we may now justly consider as its final establishment in
our own country and generally throughout the civilized world.
The earliest acts of any government on the subject, men-

THE PAQUETE HABAlNA.
Opinion of the Court.

tioned in the books, either emanated from, or were approved
by, a King of England.
In 1403 and 1406, Henry IV issued orders to his admirals
and other officers, entitled "Concerning Safety for Fishermen
- De Seciritate pro Pie atoribus." By an order of October 26, 1403, reciting that it was made pursuant to a treaty
between himself and the King of France; and for the greater
safety of the fishermen of either country, and so that they
could be, hnd carry on their industry, the more safely on the
sea, and deal with each other in peace; and that the French
King had consented that English fishermen should be treated
likewise; if was ordained that French fishermen might,
during the then pending season for the-herring fishery; safely
fish for herrings and all other fish, from the harbor of
Gravelines and the island of Thanet to the mouth of the
Seine and the harbor of Hautoune. And by an order of
October 5, 1406, he took into his safe conduct, and under his
special protection, guardianship and defence, all- and singular
the fishermen of France, Flanders and Brittany, with their
fishing vessels and boats, everywhere on the sea, through and
within his dominions, jurisdictions and territories, in regard
to their fishery, while sailing, coming and going, and, at their
pleasure, freely and lawfully fishing, delaying or proceeding,
and returning homeward with their catch of fish, without any
molestation or hindrance whatever; and also their fish, nets,
and other property and goods soever; and it was therefore
ordered that such fishermen should not be interfered with,
provided they should comport themselves well and properly,
and should not, by. color of these presents, do or attempt, or
presume to do or attempt,, anything that could-pre'idide the
King, or his kingdom of England, or his subjects. 8 Rymer's.
Foedera, 336, 451.
,The treaty made October 2, 1521, between the Emperor
Charles V and Francis I of France, through'their ambassadors, recited that a great and fierce war had. ari-en between
them, because of.which there.,h-ad been, both by land and by
sea, frequent depredations and incursions on 'either side, to
the grave detriment and intolera .e injury of the innocent

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

subjects of each; and that a suitable time for the herring
fishery was at hand, and, by reason of the sea being beset
by the enemy, the fishermen did not dare to go out, whereby
the subject of their industry, bestowed by heaven to allay
the hunger of the poor, would wholly fail for the year, unless
it were otherwise provided--quo flt, ut piscaturm commoditas,
adyvauperum levandam famem a eowlesti numine concessa, eessare hoc anno omnino debeat, nisi atiter provideatur. And it
was therefore agreed that the subjects of each sovereign, fishing in the sea, or exercising the calling of fishermen, could
and might, until the end of the next January, without incurring any attack, depredation, molestation, trouble or hindrance
soever, safely and freely, everywhere in the sea, take herrings
and every other kind of fish, the existing war by land and
sea notwithstanding; and further that, during the time aforesaid, no subject of either sovereign should commit, or attempt
or presume to commit, any depredation, force, violence, molestation or vexation, to or upon such fishermen, or their vessels,
supplies, equipments, nets and fish, or other goods soever truly
appertaining to fishing. The treaty was made at Calais, then
an English possession. It recites that the ambassadors of the
two sovereigns met there at the earnest request of Henry VIII,
and with his countenance, and in the presence of Cardinal
Wolsey, his chancellor and representative. And towards the
end of the treaty it is agreed that the said King and his said
representative, "by whose means the treaty stands concluded,
shall be conservators of the agreements therein, as if thereto
by both parties elected and chosen." 4 Dumont, Corps Diplomatique, pt. 1, pp. 352, 353.
The herring fishery was permitted, in time of war, by
French and Dutch edicts in 1536. Bynkershoek, Quastiones
Juris Publicae, lib. 1, c. 3; 1 Emerigon des Assurances, c.4,
sect. 9; c. 12, sect. 19, § 8.
France, from remote times, set the example of alleviating
the evils of war in favor of all coast fishermen. In the compilation entitled Us et Coutumes de la Mer, published by
Cleirac in 1661, and in the third part thereof, containing
"Maritime or Admiralty- Jurisdiction - la Jurisdiction.de la

THE PAQUETA ]HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

.Marine ou d'Admirautj - as well in time of peace as in
time of war," article 80 is as follows: "The admiral may in
time of war accord fishing truces - tresves _pescheresses -

to

'the enemy and to his subjects; provided that the eihemy will
likewise accord them to Frenchmen." Cleirac, 544. Under
this article, reference is made to articles 49 and 79 respectively
of the French ordinances concerning the Admiralty in 1543
and 1584, of which it is but a reproduction. 4 Pardessus,
Collection de Lois Maritimes, 319; 2 Ortolan, 51. And Cleirac
adds, in a note, this quotation from Froissart's Chronicles:
"Fishermen on the sea, whatever war there were in France
and England, never did harm to one another; so they are
echeurs 8 r mer,
friends, and help one another at need quelgue guerre qui soit en Erance et' Angleterre, jam is ne 8e
firent mat Pun d lautre; aingois sont arns,et 8'aydent lun a
lautre au besoin."
The same custom would seem to have prevailed in France
until towards the end of the seventeenth century. For example, in 1675, Louis XIV and the States General of Holland,
by mutual agreement, granted to Dutch and French fishermen the liberty, undisturbed by their vessels of war, of
fishing along the coasts' of France, Holland and England.
D'Hauterive et De Cussy, Trait6s de Commerce, pt. 1, vol.
2, p. 278. But by the ordinances of 1681 and 1692 the practice was discontinued, because, Valin says, of the faithless
conduct of the enemies of France, who, abusing the good
faith with which she had always observed the treaties, habitually carried off her fishermen, while their own fished in safety.
2 Valin sur l'Ordonnance de la Marine, (1176) 689, 690; 2
Ortolan, 52; De Boeck, § 192.
The doctrine which exempts coast fishermen 'with their
vessels and cargoes from capture as prize of war has been
familiar to the United States from the time of the War of
Independence.
On June 5, 179, Louis XVI, our ally in that war, addressed
a letter to his admiral, informing him that the wish he had
always had of alleviating, as far as he could, the hardships of
war, had directed his attention to that class of his subjects
VOL. CLXX--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

which devoted itself to the trade of fishing, and had no other
means of livelihood; that he had thought that the example
which he should give to his enemies, and which could have
no other source than the sentiments of humanity which
inspired him, would determine them to allow to fishermen
the same facilities which he should consent to grant; and that
he had therefore given orders to the commanders of all his
ships not to disturb English fishermen, nor to arrest their
vessels laden with fresh fish, even if not caught by those.
vessels; provided they had no offensive arms, and were not
proved to have made any signals creating a suspicion of
intelligence with the enemy; and the admiral was directed
to communicate the King's intentions to all officers under his
control. By a royal order in council of November 6, 1780,
the former orders were confirmed; and the capture and ransom, by a French cruiser, of The Jn
and Sarah, an English
vessel, coming from 1Rolland, laden with fresh fish, were pronounced to be illegal. 2 Code des Prises, (ed. 1781) 721,
901, 903.
Among the standing orders made by Sir James -Marriott,
Judge of the English High Court of Admiralty, was one of
April 11, 1'[80, by which it 'was "ordered, that all causes of
prize of fishing boats or vessels taken from the enemy may be
consolidated. in one monition, and one sentence or interlocutory, if under fifty tons burden, and not more than six in
number." Marriott's Formulary, 4. But by the statements
of his successor, and of both French ana English writers, it
appears that England, as well as France, during the American
Revolutionary War, abstained from interfering with the coast
fisheries. The Young Jacob and Johanna, 1 0. Rob. 20; 2
Ortolan, 53; Hall, § 148.
In the treaty of 18 between the United States- and
Prussia, article 23, (which was proposed by the American
Commissioners, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin and Thomas
Jefferson, and is said to have been drawn up by Franklin,)
provided that, if war should arise between the bontracting
parties, "all women and children, scholars of every faculty,
cultivators of the earth, artisans, manufacturers and fishermen,

THE PAQUETE HABAlNA.
Opinion of the Court.

unarmed and inhabiting unfortified towns, villages or places,
and in general all others whose occupations are for the common subsistence and benefit of mankind, shall be allowed
to continue their respective employments, and shall not be
molested in their persons; nor shall their houses or goods be
burnt or otherwise destroyed, nor their fields.wasted, by the
armed force of the enemy, into whose power, by the events
of war, they may happen to fall; but if anything is necessary
to be taken from them for the use of such armed force, the
same shall be paid for at a reasonable price." 8, Stat. 96;
1 Kent Com. 91 note; Wheaton's History of the Law of
Nations, 306, 308. Here was the clearest exemption from'
hostile molestation or seizure of the persons, occupations,
houses and goods of unarmed fishermen inhabiting unfortified
places. The article was repeated in the later treaties between
the United States and Prussia of 1799 and 1828. 8 Stat. 174,
384. And Dana, in a note to his edition of Wheaton's International Law, says: "In many treaties and decrees, fishermen
catching fish as an article of food are added to the class of
persons whose occupation is not to be disturbed in war."
Wheaton's International Law, (8th ed.) § 345, note 168.
Since the United States became a nation, the only serious
interruptions, so far as we are informed, of the general recognition of the exemption of coast fishing vessels from hostile
capture, arose out of the mutual suspicions and recriminations
of .England and France during the wars of the French Revolution.
In the first years of those wars, England having authorized
the capture of French fishermen, a decree of the French National Convention of October 2, 1793, directed the executive
power "to protest against this conduct, theretofore without
example; to reclaim the fishing boats seized; and, in case of
refusal, to resort to reprisals." But in July, 11196, the Cominittee of Public Safety ordered the release of English fishermen seized under the former decree, "not considering them
as prisoners of war." LZaNost ra Segnor de la Piedad,(1801)
cited below; 2 .De Cussy, Droit Maritime, 164, 165; 1 Mass6,
Droit Commercial, (2d ed.) 266, 267.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899
Opinion of the Court

On January 24, 1798, the English Government, by express
order, instructed the commanders of its ships to seize French
and Dutch fishermen with their boats. 6 Martens, :Recueil
des Trait6s, (2d ed.) 505; 6 Schoell, Histoire des Trait6s, 119;
2 Ortolan, 53. After the promulgation of that order, Lord
Stowell (then Sir William Scott) in the High Court of Admiralty of England condemned small Dutch fishing vessels as
prize of war. In one case, the capture was in April, 1798,
and the decree was. made November 13, 1798. "The Young
Jacob and Johanna,1 C. Rob. 20. In another case, the decree
was made August 23, 1199. The Nboydt Gedacht, 2 0. Rob.
137, note.
For the year 1800, the orders of the English and French
governments and the correspondence between them may be
found in books already referred to. 6 Martens, 503-512;
6 Schoell, 118-120; 2 Ortolan, 53, 54:. The doings for that
year may be summed up as follows:. On March 27, 1800, the
French government, unwilling to resort to reprisals, re~nacted
the orders given by Louis XVI in 1780, above mentioned, prohibiting any seizure by the French ships of English fishermen,
unless armed, or proved to have made signals to the enemy.
On May 30, 1800, the English government, having received
notice of that action of the French government, revoked its
order of January 24, 1798. But, soon afterwards, the English
g6vernment complained that French fishing boats had been
made into fireboats at Flushing, as well as that the French
government had impressed, and had sent to Brest, to serve in
its flotilla, French fishermen and their boats, even those
whom the English had released on condition of their not
serving; and on January 21, 1801, summarily revoked its last
order, and again put in force its order of January 24, 1798.
On February 16, 1801, Napoleon Bonaparte, then First Consul,
directed the French commissioner at London to return at once
to France, first declaring to the English government that its
conduct, "contrary. to all the usages of civilized nations, and
to the common law which governs them, even in time of war,
gave to the existing war a character of rage and bitterness
which destroyed even the relations usual in a loyal war," and

THE PAQUETE HABANA.

693

Opinion of the Court.

"tended only to exasperate the two nations, and to put off the
term of peace;" and that the French government, having
always made it "a maxim to alleviate as much as possible
the evils of war, could not think, on its part, of rendering

wretched fishermen victims of a prolongation of hostilities,
and would abstain from all reprisals."
On March 16, 1801, the Addington Ministry, having come
into power in England, revoked the orders of its predecessors
against the French fishermen; maintaining, .however, that
"the freedom of fishing was nowise founded upon' an agreement, but upon a simple concession;" that ".this concession
would be always subordinate to the convenience of the
moment," and that "it was never extended to the great
fishery, .or to commerce in oysters or in fish." And the freedom of the coast fisheries was again allowed on both sides.
6 Martens, 514; 6 Schoell, 121; 2 Ortolan, 54; Manning,
Law of Nations, (Amos ed.) 206.
Lord Stowell's judgment in The Young Jacob and Johanna,
1 0. Rob. 20, above cited, was much relied on by the counsel
for the United States, and deserves careful consideration.
The vessel there condemned is described in the report as
"a small Dutch fishing vessel taken April, 1'798, on her return
from the Dogger bank to Holland;" and Lord Stowell, in
delivering judgment, said: "In former wars, it has not been
usual to make captures of these small fishing vessels; but this
rule was a rule of comity only, and not of legal decision; it
has prevailed from views of mutual accommodation between
neighboring countries, and from tenderness to a poor 'and
industrious order of people. In the present war there has, I
presume, been sufficient reason for changing this mode of
treatment, and, as they are brought before me for my judgment, they must be referred to the general principles of this
court; they fall under the character and description of the
last class of cases; that is, of ships constantly and exclusively
employed in the enemy's trade." And he added: "It is a
farther satisfaction to me in giving this judgment to observe
that the facts also bear strong marks of a false and fraudulent
transaction."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Both the capture and condemnation were within a year
after the order of the English government of January 24,
1798, instructing the commanders of its ships to seize French
and Dutch fishing vessels, and before any revocation of that
order. Lord Stowell's judgment shows that his decision was
based upon the order of 1798, as well as upon strong evidence
of fraud. Nothing more was adjudged in the case.
But some expressions in his opinion have been given so
much weight by English writers, that it may be well to examine them particularly. The opinion begins by admitting the
known custom in former wars not to capture such vessels adding, however, "but this was a rule of comity only, and not
of legal decision." Assuming the phrase "legal decision" to
have been there used, in the sense in which courts are accustomed to usa it, as equivalent to "judicial decision," it is true
that, so far as appears, there had been no such decision on the
point in England. The word "comity" was apparently used
by Lord Stowell as synonymous with courtesy or good will.
But the period of a hundred years which has since elapsed is
amply sufficient to have enabled what originally may have
rested in custom or comity, courtesy or concession, to grow,
by the general assent of civilized nations, into a settled rule of
international law. As well said by Sir James Mackintosh:
"In the present century a slow and silent, but very substantial mitigation has taken place in the practice of war - and in
proportion as that mitigated practice has received the sanction
of time, it is raised from the rank of mere usage, and becomes
part of the law of nations." Discourse on the Law of Nations,
38; 1 Miscellaneous Works, 360.
The French prize tribunals, both before and after Lord
Stowell's decision, took a wholly different view of the general
question. In 1780, as already mentioned, an order in council
of Louis XVI had declared illegal the capture by a French
cruiser of The JoAn and 8arah, an English vessel, coming
from Holland, laden with fresh fish. And on May 11, 1801,
where a Portuguese fishing vessel, with her cargo of fish, having no more crew than was needed for her management, and
for serving the nets, on a trip of several days, had been cap-

THE PAQUETE HABANA.

695.

Opinion of the Court.

tured in April, 1801, by a French cruiser, three leagues off the
coast of Portugal, the Council of Prizes held that the capture
was contrary to "the principles of humanity, and the maxims
of international law," and decreed that the vessel, with the
fish on board, or the net proceeds of any that had been sold,
should be restored to her master. 1a Nostra Segnora d la
Piedad,25 Merlin, Jurisprudence, Prise Maritime, § 3, art. 1,
3; S. C. 1 Pistoye et Duverdy, Prises Maritimes, 331; 2 De
Cussy, Droit Maritime, 166.
The English government, soon afterwards, more than once
unqualifiedly prohibited the molestation of fishing vessels employed in catching and bringing to market fresh fish. On
May 23, 1806, it was "ordered in council, that all fishing vessels under Prussian and other colors, and engaged for the purpose of catching fish and conveying them fresh to market,
with their crews, cargoes and stores, shall not be molested on
their fishing voyages and bringing the same to market; and
that no fishing vessels of this description shall hereafter be
molested. And the Right Honorable the Lords Commissioners
of His Majesty's Treasury, the Lords -Commissioners of the
Admiralty and the Judge of the High Court of Admiralty are
to give the necessary directions herein as to them may respectively appertain." 5 C. Rob. 408. Again, in the order in
council of.May 2, 1810, which directed that "all vessels which
shall have cleared out from any port so far under the control
of France or her allies as that British vessels may not freely
trade thereat, and which are employed in the whale fishery,
or other fishery of any description, save as hereinafter excepted,
and are "returning or destined to return either to the port
from whence they cleared, or to any other port or place at
which the British flag may not freely .trade, shall be captured,
and condemned together with thefr stores and cargoes, as prize
to the captors," there were excepted "vessels employed in
catching and conveying fish fresh to market, such vessels not
being fitted or provided for the curing of fish." Edw. Adm.
appx. L.
Wheaton, in his Digest of the Law of Maritime Captures
and Prizes, published in 1815, wrote: "It has been usual

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

in maritime wars to exempt from capture fishing boats and
their cargoes, both from views of mutual accommodation between neighboring countries, and from tenderness to a poor and
industrious order of people. This custom, so honorable to the
humanity of civilized nationg, has fallen into disuse ; and it is
remarkable that both France and England mutually reproach
each other with that breach of good faith which has finally
abolished it." Wheaton on Captures, c. 2, § 18.
This statement clearly exhibits Wheaton's opinion that the
custom had been a general one, as well as that it ought to
remain so. His assumption that it had been abolished by the
differences between France and England at the close of the
last century was hardly justified by the state of things when
he wrote, and has not since been borne out.
During the wars of the French Empire, as both French and
English writers agree, the coast fisheries were left in peace.
2 Ortolan, 54; De Boeck, § 193 ; Hall, § 148. De Boeck
quaintly and truly adds, "and the incidents of 1800 and of
1801 had no morrow - n'eurent , as de lendemain."
In the war with Mexico in 1846, the United States recognized the exemption of coast fishing boats from capture. In
proof of this, counsel have referred to records of the Navy
'Department, which this court is clearly authorized to consult
upon such a question. Jones v. United States, 137 U. S. 202;
Underhill v. flernandez, 168 U. S. 250, 253.
By those records it appears that Commodore Conner, commanding the Home Squadron blockading the east coast of
Mexico, on May 14, 1846, wrote a letter from the ship Cumberland, off Brazos Santiago, near the southern point of Texas,
to Mr. Bancroft, the Secretary of the Navy, enclosing a copy
of the commodore's "instructions to the commanders of the
vessels of the Home Squadron, showing the principles to be
observed in the blockade of the Mexican ports," one of which
was that "Mexican boats engaged in fishing on any part of
the coast will be allowed to pursue their labors unmolested;"
and that on June 10, 1846, those instructions were approved
by the Navy Department, of which Mr. Bancroft was still the
head, and continued to be until he was appointed Minister to

THE PAQUETE IABAIA.
Opinion of the Court.

England in September following. Although Commodore Conner's instructions and the Department's approval thereof do
not appear in any contemporary publication of the Government, they evidently became generally known at the time, or
soon after; for it is stated in several treatises on international
law (beginning with Ortolan's second- edition, published in
1853) that the United States in the Mexican War permitted the
coast fishermen of the enemy to continue the free exercise of
their industry. 2 Ortolan, (2d ed.) 49 note; (4th ed.) 55; 4
Calvo, (5th ed.) § 2372; De Boeck, § 194; Hall, (4th ed.)

§ 148.
As qualifying the effect of those statements, the counsel
for the United States relied on a proclamation of Commodore
Stockton, commanding the Pacific Squadron, dated August 20,
1846, directing officers under his command to proceed immediately to blockade the ports of Mazatlan and San Blas on
the west coast of Mexico, and saying to them, "All neutral
vessels that you may find there you will allow twenty days
to depart; and you will make the blockade absolute against
all vessels, except armed vessels of neutral nations. You will
capture all vessels under the Mexican flag that you may be
able to take." Navy Report of 1846, pp. 673, 674. But
there is nothing to show that Commodore Stockton intended,
or that the Government approved, the capture of coast fishing
vessels.
On the contrary, General Halleck, in the preface to his work
on International Law or Rules Regulating the Intercourse of
States in Peace and War, published in 1861, says that he
began that work, during the war between the United States
and Mexico, "while serving on the staff of the commander
of the Pacific Squadron" and "ofte, required to give opinions on questions of international law growing out of the
operations of the war." Had the practice of the blockading
squadron on the west coast of Mexico during that war, in
regard to fishing vessels, differed from that approved by the
Navy Department on the east coast, General Halleck could
hardly have failed to mention it, when stating the prevailing
doctrine upon the subject as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"Fishing boats have also, as a general rule, been exempted
from the effects of hostilities.

As early as 1521, while-war

was raging between Charles V and Francis, ambassadors from
these two sovereigns met at Calais, then English, and agreed
that, whereas the herring fishery was about to commence, the
subjects of both belligerents, engaged in this pursuit, should
be safe and unmolested by the other party, and should have
leave to fish' as in time of peace. In the war of 1800, the
British and French governments issued formal instructions
exempting the fishing boats of each other's subjects from
seizure. This order was subsequently rescinded by the British
government, on the alleged ground that some French fishing
boats were equipped as gunboats, and that some French fishermen, who had been prisoners in England, had violated their
parole not to serve, and had gone'to join the French fleet at
Brest. Such excuses were evidently mere pretexts, and, after
some angry discussions had taken place on the subject, the
British restriction was withdrawn, and the freedom of fishing was again allowed on both sides. French writers consider
this exemption as an established principle of the modern law
of war, and it has been so recognized in the French courts,
which have restored such vessels when captured by French
cruisers." Halleck, (1st ed.) c. 20, § 23.
That edition was the only one sent out under the author's
own auspices, except an abridgment, entitled Elements of
International Law and the Law of War, which he published
in 1866, as he said in the preface, to supply a suitable textbook for instruction upon the subject, "not only in our
colleges, but also in our two great national schools - the
Military and Naval Academies." In that abridgment, the
statement as to fishing boats was condensed, as follows:
"Fishing boats have also, as a general rule, been exempted
from the effects of hostilities. French writers consider this
exemption as an established principle of the modern law of
war, and it has been so recognized in the French courts,
which have restored. such vessels when captured by French
cruisers." Halleck's Elements, c. 20, § 21.
In the treaty of peace between the United States and Ivtex-

THE PAQIhETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

ico in 1848 were inserted the very words of the earlier treaties
with Prussia, already quoted, forbidding the hostile molestation or seizure in time of war of the persons, occupations,
houses or goods of fishermen. 9 Stat. 939, 940.
Wharton's Digest of the International Law of the United
States, published by authority of Congress"in 1886 and 1887,
embodies General Halleck's fuller statement, above quoted, and
contains nothing else upon the subject. 3 Whart. Int. Law Dig.
345, p. 315; 2 Halleck, (Eng. eds. 1873 and 1878) p. 151.
France, in the Crimean War in 1854, and in her wars with
Austria in 1859 and with Germany in 1870, by general orders,
forbade her cruisers to trouble the coast fisheries, or to seize
any vessel or boat engaged therein, unless naval or military
operations should make it necessary. Calvo, § 2372; Hall,
§ 148; 2 Ortolan, (4th ed.) 449; 10 Revue de Droit International, (1878) 399.
Calvo says that in the Crimean War," notwithstanding her
alliance with France and Italy, England did not follow the
same line of conduct, and her cruisers in the Sea of Azof destroyed the fisheries, nets, fishing.implements, provisions, boats,
and even the cabins, of the inhabitants of the coast." Calvo,
§ 2372. And a Russian writer on Prize Law remarks that
those depredations, "having brought ruin, on poor fishermen
and inoffensive traders, could not but leave a painful impression on the minds of the population, without impairing in the
least the resources of the Russian government."
Katchenovsky, (Pratt's ed.) 148. But the contemporaneous reports
of the English naval officers put a different face on the matter,
by stating that the destruction in question was part of a military measure, conducted with the coiperation of the French
ships, and pursuant to instructions of tha English admiral "to
clear the seaboard of all fish stores, all fisheries and mills, on
a scale beyond the wants of the neighboring population, and
indeed-of all things destined to contribute to the maintenance
of the enemy's army in the Crimea;" and that the property
destroyed consisted of large fishing establishments and storehouses of the Russian governmeht, numbers of heavy launches,
and enormous quantities of nets and gear, salted fish, corn

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and other provisions, intended for the supply of the Russian
army. United Service Journal of 1855, pt. 3, pp. 108-112.
Since the English orders in council of 1806 and 1810, before
quoted, in favor of fishing vessels employed in catching and
bringing to market fresh fish, no instance has been found in
which the exemption from capture of private coast fishing
vessels, honestly pursuing their peaceful industry, has been
denied by England, or by any other nation. And the Empire
of Japan, (the last State admitted into the rank of civilized
nations,) by an ordinance promulgated at the beginning of its
war with China in August, 1894, established prize courts, and
ordained that "the following enemy's vessels are exempt from
detention" -including in the exemption "boats engaged in
coast fisheries," as well as "ships engaged exclusively on a
voyage of scientific discovery, philanthropy or religious mission." Takahashi, International Law, 11, 178.
International law is part of our law, and must be ascertained
and administered by the courts of justice of appropriate jurisdiction, as often as questions of right depending upon it are
duly presented for their determination. For this purpose,
where there is no treaty, and no controlling executive or
legislative act or judicial decision, resort must be had to the
customs and usages of civilized nations; and, as evidence of
these, to the works of jurists and commentators, who by years
of labor, research and experience, have made themselves peculiarly well acquainted with the subjects of which they treat.
Such works are resorted to by judicial tribunals, not for the
speculations of their authors concerning what the law ought
to be, but for trustworthy evidence of what the law really is.
Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S.113, 163, 164, 214, 215.
Wheaton places, among the principal sources of international law, "Text-writers of authority, showing what is the
approved usage of nations, or the general opinion respecting
their mutual conduct, with the definitions and modifications
introduced by general consent." As to these he forcibly
observes: "Without wishing to exaggerate the importance of
these writers, or to substitute, in any case, their authority for^
the principles of reason, it may be affirmed that they are gen-

TH

PAQUETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

erally impartial in their judgment. They are witnesses of the
sentiments and usages of civilized nations, and the weight of
their testimony increases every time that their authority is
invoked by statesmen, and every year that passes without the
rules laid down in their works being impugned by the avowal
of contrary principles." Wheaton's International Law, (8th
ed.) § 15.
Chancellor Kent says: "In the absence of higher and more
authoritative sanctions, the ordinances of foreign States, the
opinions of eminent statesmen, and the writings of distinguished jurists, are regarded as of great consideration on
questions not settled by conventional law. In cases where the
principal jurists agree, the presumption will be very great in
favor of the solidity of their maxims; and no civilized nation,
that does not arrogantly set all ordinary law and justice at
defiance, will venture to disregard the uniform sense of the
established writers on international law." 1 Kent Com. 18.
It will be convenient, in the first place, to refer to some
leading French treatises on international law, which deal with
the question now before us, not as one of the law of France
only, but as one determined by the general consent of civilized
nations.
"Enemy ships," say Pistoye and Duverdy, in their Treatise
on Maritime Prizes, published in 1855, "are good, prize. Not
all, however; for it results from the unanimous accord of the
maritime powers that an exception should be made in favor of
coast fishermen. Such fishermen are respected by.the enemy,
so long as they devote themselves exclusively to fishing."
1 Pistoye et Duverdy, tit. 6, c. 1, p. 314.
De Cu.ssy, in his work on the Phases and Leading Cases
of the Maritime Law of Nations - ?hase8 et Causes CVl bres
du Droit Afaritime des Nations - published in 1856, affirms
in the clearest language the exemption from capture of fishing
boats, saying, in lib. 1, tit. 3, § 36, that "in time of war the
freedom of fishing is respected by belligerents; fishing boats
are considered as neutral; in law, as in principle, they are not
subject either to capture or to confiscation ;" and that in lib.
2, c. 20, he will state "several facts and several decisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

which prove that the perfect freedom and ndutrality of fishing boats are not illusory." 1 De Cussy, p. 291. And in the
chapter referred to, entitled De la Libert6 et de l Neutralit
Parfaitede lat P'c e, besides references to the edicts and decisions in France during the French Revolution, is this general
statement: "If one consulted only positive international law"
- Ze droit des gens positif- (by which is evidently meant
international law expressed in treaties, decrees or other public
acts, as distinguished from what may be implied from custom
or usage,) "fishing boats would be subject, like all other
trading vessels, to the law of prize; a sort of tacit agreement
among all European nations frees them from it, and several
official declarations have confirmed this privilege in favor of
'a class of men whose hard and ill rewarded labor, commonly
performed by feeble and aged hands, is so foreign to the
operations of war.'" 2 De Cussy, 164, 165.
Ortolan, in the fourth edition of his .Rgles Internationales
et Diplomatie de la .Wer, published in "1864, after stating the
general rule that the vessels and cargoes of subjects of the
enemy are lawful prize, says: "Nevertheless, custom admits
an exception in favor of boats engaged in the coast fishery;
these boats, as well as their crews, are free from capture and
exempt from all hostilities. The coast fishing industry is, in
truth, wholly pacific, and of much less importance, in regard
to the national wealth that it may produce, than maritime
commerce or the great fisheries. Peaceful and wholly inoffensive, those who carry it on, among whom women are often
seen, may be called the harvesters of the territorial seas, since
they confine themselves to gathering in the products thereof;
thev are for the most part poor families who seek in this calling hardly more than the means of gaining their livelihood."
2 Ortolan, 51. Again, after observing that there are very few
solemn public treaties which make mention of the immunity
of fishing boats in time of war, he says: "From another point
of view, the custom which sanctions this immunity is not so
general that it can be considered as making an absolute international rule; but it has been so often put in practice, and;
besides, it accords so well with the rule in use, in wars on

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

land, in regard to peasants and husbandmen, to whom coast
fishermen may be likened, that it will doubtless continue to be
followed in maritime wars to.come." 2 Ortolan, 55.
No international jurist of the present day has a wider or
more deserved reputation than Calvo, who, though writing in
French, is a citizen of the Argentine Republic, employed in
its diplomatic' service abroad. In the fifth edition of his great
work on international law, published in 1896, he observes, in
2366, that the international authority of decisions in particular
cases by the prize courts of France, of England, and of the
United States, is lessened by the fact that the principles on
which they are based are largely derived from the internal
legislation of each country ; and yet the peculiar character of
maritime wars, with other considerations, gives to prize jurisprudence a force, and importance reaching beyond the limits
of the country in which it has prevailed. He therefore proposes here to group together a number of particular cases
proper to. serve as precedents for the solution of grave questions of maritime law in regard to the capture of private.
property as prize of war. Immediately, in § 2367, he goes on
to say: "Notwithstanding the hardships to which maritime
-wars subject private property, notwithstanding the extent of
the recognized riglits of belligerents, there are generally
exempted, from seizure and capture, fishing vessels." In the
next section he adds: "This exception is perfectly justiciable
Cette exception est ja~faitement jutioiable" - that is to
say, belonging to judicial jurisdiction or cognizance. Littr6,
Dict. voc. Justiciable; -Hans v. Louiiana, 134 U. S. 1, 15.
Calvo then quotes Ortolan's description, above cited, of the
nature of the coast fishing industry; and proceeds to refer, in
detail, to some of the French precedents, to the acts of the
French and English governments in the times of Louis XVI
and of the French Revolution, to the position of the United
States in the war with Mexico, and of France in later wars,
and to the action of British cruisers in the Crimean War.
And he concludes his discussion of the subject, in § 2373, by
affirming the exemption of the coast fishery, and pointing out
the distinction in this regard between the coast fishery and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

what he calls the great fishery, for cod, whales or seals, as
follows: "The privilege of exemption from capture, which is
generally acquired by fishing vessels plying their industry near
the coasts, is not extended in any couhtry to ships employed
on the high sea in what is called the great fishery, such as that
for the cod, for the whale or the sperm whale, or for the seal
or sea calf.. These ships are, in effect, considered as devoted
to operations which are at once commercial and industrialCes navires sont en efet considg,'6s comme adonnds a' des
oyvrations d Za fois commeriales et industrielles." The distinction is generally recognized. 2 Ortolan, 54; De Boeck,
§ 196; Hall, § 148. See also The Susa, 2 0. Rob. 251; The
fokhan, Edw. Adm. 275, and appx. L.
The modern German books on international law, cited by
the counsel for the appellants, treat the custom, by which the
vessels and implements of coast fishermen are exempt from
seizure and capture, as well established by the practice of
nations. ileffter, § 137; 2 Kaltenborn, § 237, p. 480; Bluntschli, § 667; Perels, § 37, p. 217.
De Boeck, in his work on Enemy Private Property under
Enemy Flag - de la P'opri6Pv'iv6e Ennemie sous Pavillon
Ennemi -published in 1882, and the only continental treatise cited by the counsel for the United States, says in § 191:
".
A usage very ancient, if not universal, withdraws from the
right of capture enemy vessels engaged in the coast fishery.
The reason of this exception is evident; it would have been
too hard to snatch from poor fishermen the means of earning
their bread." "The exemption includes the boats, the fishing
implements and the cargo of fish." Again, in § 195: "It is
to be observed that very few treaties sanction in due form this
immunity of the coast fishery." "There is, then, only a custom.
But what is its character? Is it so fixed and general that it can
be raised to the rank of a positive and formal rule of international law?" After discussing the statements of other writers,
he approves the opinion of. Ortolan (as expressed in the last
sentence above quoted from his work) and says that, at bottom, it differs by a shade only from that formulated by Calvo
and b some of the German jurists, and that "it is more exact,

TEE PAQUETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

without ignoring the imperative character of the humane rule
in question - elle est plus exacte, sans m6connaitre is caradtre
imp6ratif de la rigle d'humanitg dont iZ sagit." And, in § 196,
he defines the limits of the rule as follows: "But the immunity of the coast fishery must be limited by the reasons that
justify it. The reasons of humanity and of harmlessness-l
raisons d'humanit6 et c'innocuit - which militate in its favor
*donot exist in the great fishery, such as the cod fishery; ships
engaged in that fishery devote themselves to truly commercial
operations, which employ a large numbqr of seamen. And
these same reasons cease to be applicable to fishing vessels
employed for a warlike purpose, to those which conceal arms,
or which exchange signals of intelligence with ships of war;
but only those taken in the fact can be rigorously treated; to
allow seizure by way of prevention would open the door to
every abuse, and would be equivalent to a suppression of the
immunity."
Two recent English text-writers, cited at the bar, (influenced
by what Lord Stowell said a century-since,) hesitate to recognize that the exemption of coast fishing vessels from capture
has now become a settled rule of international law. Yet they
both admit that there is little real difference in the views, or
in the practice, of England and of other maritime'nations;
and that. no civilized nation at the present day would molest
coast fishing vessels, so long as they were peaceably pursuing
their calling, and there was no danger that they or their crews
might be of military use to the enemy. Hall, in § 148 of the
fourth edition of his Treatise on International Law, after
briefly sketching the history of the positions occupied by
France and England at different periods, and by the United
States in the Mexican War, goes on to say: "In the foregoing
facts there is nothing to show that much real difference has
existed in the practice of the maritime countries. England
does not seem to have been unwilling to spare fishing vessels
so long as they are harmless, and it does not appear that any
State has accorded them immunity under circumstances of
inconvenience to itself. It is likely that all nations would now
refrain from molesting them as a general rule, and would capvoL. cLxxv-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ture them so soon as any danger arose that they or their crews
might be of military use to the enemy; and it is also likely
that it is impossible to grant them a more distinct exemption."
So T. J. Lawrence, in § 206 of his Principles of International
Law, says: "The difference between the English and the
French view is more apparent than real; for no civilized belligerent would now capture the boats of fishermen plying their
avocation peaceably in the territorial waters of their own
State; and no jurist would seriously argue that their immunity must be respected if they were used for warlike purposes,
as were the smacks belonging to the northern ports of France
when Great Britain gave the order to capture them in 1800."
But there are writers of various maritime countries, not yet
cited, too important to be passed by without notice.
Jan Helenus Ferguson, Netherlands Miriister to China, and
previously in the naval and in the colonial service of his country, in his Manual of International Law for the Use of Navies,
Colonies and Consulates, published in 1882, writes: "An
exception to the usage of capturing enemy's private vessels at
sea is the coast fishery." "This principle of immunity from
capture of fishing boats is generally adopted by all maritime
powers, and in actual warfare they are universally spared so
long as they remain harmless." 2 Ferguson, § 212.
Ferdinand Attlmayr, Captain in the Austrian Navy, in his
Manual for Naval Officers, published at Vienna in 1872 under
the auspices of Admiral Tegetthoff, says: "Regarding the
capture of enemy property, an exception must be mentioned,
which is a universal custom. Fishing vessels which belong to
the adjacent coast, and whose business yields only a necessary
livelihood, are, from c6nsiderations of humanity, universally
excluded from capture." 1 Attlmayr, 61.
Ignacio de Negrin, First Official of the Spanish Board of
Admiralty, in his Elementary Treatise on Maritime International Law, adopted by royal order:as a text-book in the Naval
Schools of Spain, and published at Madrid in 183, conclides
his chapter "Of the lawfulness of prizes" with these words:
"It remains to be added that the custom of all civ'ilized peoples excludes from capture, and from all. kind of hostility, the

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

fishing vessels of the enemy's coasts, considering this industry as absolutely inoffensive, and deserving, from its hardships
and usefulness, of this favorable exception. It has been thus
expressed in very many international conventions, so that it
can be deemed an incontestable principle of law, at least
among enlightened nations." Negrin, tit. 3, c. 1, § 310.
Carlos Testa, Captain in the Portuguese Navy and Professor
in the Naval School at Lisbon, in his work on Public International Law, published in French at Paris in 1886, when
discussing the general right of capturing enemy ships, says:
"(Nevertheless, in this, customary law establishes an exception of immunity in favor of coast fishing vessels. Fishing is
so peaceful an industry, and is generally carried on by so poor
and so hardworking a class of men, that it is likened, in the
territorial waters of the enemy's country, to the class of husbandmen who gather the fruits of the earth for their livelihood. The examples and practice generally followed establish
this humane and beneficent exception as an international rule,
and this rule may be considered as adopted by customary law
and by all civilized nations." Testa, pt. 3, c. 2, in 18 Biblioth~que International et Diplomatique, pp. 152, 153.
No less clearly and decisively speaks the distinguished Italian jurist, Pasquale Fiore, in the enlarged edition of his
exhaustive work on Public International Law, published at
Paris in 1885-6, saying: "The vessels of fishermen have
been generally declared exempt from confiscation, because of
the eminently peaceful object of their humble industry, and
of the principles of equity and humanity, - The exemption
includes the vessel, the implements of fishing, and the cargo
resulting from the fishery. This usage, eminently humane,
goes back to very ancient times; and although the immunity of fishery along the coasts may not have been sanctioned
by treaties, yet it is considered to-day as so definitely established, that the inviolability of vessels devoted to that fishery
is proclaimed by the publicists as a positive rule of international law, and is generally respected by the nations. Consequently, we shall lay dawn the following rule: (a) Vessels
belonging to citizens of the enemy State,. and devoted to fish-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ing along the coasts, cannot be subject to capture. (b) Such
vessels, however, will lose all right of exemption, when employed for a warlike purpose. (6) There may, nevertheless,
be subjected to capture vessels devoted to the great fishery in
the ocean, such as those employed in the whale fishery, or in
that for seals or sea calves." 3 Fiore, § 1421.
This review of the precedents and authorities on the subject appears to us abundantly to demonstrate that at the present day, by the general consent of the civilized nations of the
world, and independently of any express treaty or other public act, it is an established rule of international law, founded
on considerations of humanity to a poor and industrious order
of men, and of the mutual convenience of belligerent States,
that coast fishing vessels, with their implements and supplies,
cargoes and crews, unarmed, and honestly pursuing their
peaceful calling of catching and bringing in fresh fish, are
exempt from capture as prize of war.
The exemption, of course, does not apply to coast fishermen or their vessels, if employed for a warlike purpose, or in
such a way as to give aid or information to the enemy; nor
when military or naval operations create a necessity to which
all private interests must give way.
Nor has the exemption been extended to ships or vessels
employed on the high sea in taking whales or seals, or cod or
other fish which are not brought fresh to market, but are
salted or 6therwise cured and made a regular article of commerce.
This rule' of international law is one which prize courts,
administering the law of nations, are bound to take judicial
notice of, and to give effect to, in the absence of any treaty
or other public act of their own government in relation to the
matter.
Calvo, in a passage already quoted, distinctly affirms that
the exemption of coast fishing vessels from capture is perfectly
justiciable, or, in other words, of judicial jurisdiction or cognizance. Calvo, § 2368. Nor are judicial precedents wanting in
support of the view that this exemption, or a somewhat analogous one, should be recognized oitd declared by a prize court.

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

By the practice of all civilized nations, vessels employed
only for the purposes of discovery or science are considered as
exempt from the contingencies of war, and therefore not subject to capture. It has been usual for the government sending out such an expedition to give notice to other powers; but
it is not essential. 1 Kent Com. 91, note; Halleck, c. 20, § 22;
Calvo, § 2376; Hall, § 138.
In 1813, while the United States were at war with England,
an American vessel, on her voyage from Italy to the United
States, was captured by an English ship, and brought into
Halifax in Nova Scotia, and, with her cargo, condemned as
lawfUl prize by the Court of Vice Admiralty there. But a
petition for the restitution of g case of paintings and engravings, which had been presented to and were owned by the
Academy of Arts in Philadelphia, was granted by Dr. Croke,
the judge of that court, who said: "The same law of nations,
which prescribes that all property belonging to the enemy
shall be liable- to confiscation, has likewise its modifications
and relaxations of that rule. The arts and sciences are admitted, amongst all civilized nations, as forming an exception
to the severe rights of warfare, and as entitled to favor and
protection. They are considered not as the peculium of this
or of that nation, but as the property of mankind at large, and
as belonging to the common interests of the whole species."
And he added that there had been "innumerable cases of the
mutual exercise of this courtesy between nations in former
wars." The .Marqui8 de Somerueles, Stewart Adm. (Nova
Scotia) 445, 482.
In.1861, during the War of the Rebellion, a similar decision
was made, in the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, in regard to two cases of
books belonging and consigned to a university in North Carolina. Judge Cadwalader, in ordering these books to be liberated from the custody of the marshal, and restored to the
agent of the university, said: "Though this claimant, as the
resident of a hostile district, would not be entitled to restitution of the subject of a commercial adventure in books, the
purpose of the shipment in quiestion gives to it a different

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

character. The United States, in prosecuting hostilities for
the restoration of their constitutional authority, are compelled
incidentally to confiscate property captured at sea, of which
the proceeds would otherwise increase the wealth of that district. But the United States are not at war with literature in
that part of their territory." He then referred to the decision in Nova Scotia, and to the French decisions upon cases
of fishing vessels, as precedents for the decree which he was
about to pronounce; and he added that, without any such
precedents, he should have had no difficulty in liberating
these books. The Amelia, 4 Philadelphia, 417.
In Brown v. 'United States, 8 Cranch, 110, there are expressions of Chief Justice Marshall which, taken by themselves,
might seem inconsistent with the position above maintained
of the duty of a prize court to take judicial notice of a rule of
international law, established by the general usage of civilized
nations, as to the kind of property subject to capture. But
the actual decision in that case, and the leading reasons on
which it was based, appear to us rather to confirm our position. The principal question there was whether personal
property of a British subject, found on land in the United
States at the beginning of the last war with Great Britain,
could lawfully be condemned as enemy's property, on a libel
filed by the attorney of the United States, without a positive
act of Congress. The conclusion of the court was "that the
power of confiscating enemy property is in the legislature,
and that the legislature has not yet*declared its will to confiscate property which was within our territory at the declaration of war." 8 Cranch, 129. In showing that the declaration
of war did not, of itself, vest the executive with authority to
order such property to be confiscated, the Chief Justice relied
on the modern usages of nations, saying: "The universal
practice of forbearing to seize and confiscate debts and
credits, the principle universally received that the right to
them revives on the restoration of peace, would see~m to prove
that war is not an absolute confiscation of this property, but
simply confers the right of confiscation;" and again: "The
modern rule then would seem to be that tangible property

THE PAQUETE IABANA.
Opinion of the Court.

belonging to an enemy, and found in the country at the
commencement of war, ought not to be immediately confiscated; and in almost every commercial treaty an article is
inserted stipulating for the right to withdraw such property."
8 Cranch, 123, 125. The decision that enemy property on
land, which by the modern usage of nations is not subject to
capture as prize of war, cannot be condemned by a prize court,
even by direction of the executive, without express. authority
from Congress, appears to us to repel any inference that coast
fishing vessels, which are exempt by the general consent of
civilized nations from capture, and which no act of Congress
or order of the President has expressly authorized to be taken
and confiscated, must be condemned by a prize court, for want
of a distinct exemption in a treaty or other public adct of the
Government.
To this subject, in more than one aspect, are singularly
applicable the words uttered by Mr. Justice Strong, speaking
for this court: "Undoubtedly, no single nation can change
the law of the sea. That law is of universal obligation, and
no statute of one or two nations can create obligations for
the world. Like all the laws of nations, it rests upon the
common consent of civilized communities. It is of force, not
because it was prescribed by any superior power, but because
it has been generally accepted as a rule of conduct. Whatever may have been its origin, whether in the usages of navigation, or in the ordinances of maritime States, or in both,
it.has become the law of the sea only by the concurrent sanction of those nations who may be said to constitute the commercial world. Many of the usages which prevail, and which
have the force of law, doubtless originated in the positive prescriptions of some single State, which were at first of limited
effect, but which, when generally accepted, became of universal obligation." -"This is not giving to the statutes of any
nation extra-territorial effect. It is not treating them as generil maritime laws; but it is recognition of the historical
fact that by common consent of mankind these rules have
been acquiesced in-as of general obligation. Of that fact, we
think, we may take judicial notice. Foreign municipal-laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

must indeed be proved as facts, but it is not so with the law
of nations." The Scotia, 14 Wall. 170, 187, 188.
The position taken by the United States during the recent
war with Spain was quite in accord with the rule of international law, now generally recognized by civilized nations,
in regard to coast fishing vessels.
On April 21, 1898, the Secretary of the Navy gave instructions to Admiral Sampson, commanding the North Atlantic
Squadron, to "immediately institute a blockade of the. north
coast of Cuba, extending from Cardenas on the east to Bahia
Honda on the west." Bureau of Navigation Report of 1898,
appx. 175. The blockade was immediately instituted accordingly. On April 22, the President issued a proclamation,
declaring that the United States had instituted and would
maintain that blockade, "in pursuance of the laws of the
United States, and the law of nations applicable to.such cases."
30 Stat. 1769. And by the act of Congress of April 25, 1898,
c. 189, it was declared that the war between the United States
and Spain existed on that day, and had existed since and
including April 21. 30 Stat. 364.
On April 26, 1898, the President issued another proclamation, which, after reciting the existence of the war, as declared
by Congress, contained this further recital: " It being desirable that such war should be conducted upon principles in harmony with the present views of nations and sanctioned by
their recent practice." This recital was followed by specific
declarations of certain rules for the conduct of the war by
sea, making no mention of fishing vessels. 30 Stat. 1770.
But the proclamation clearly inanifests the general policy of
the Government to conduct the war in accordance with the
principles-of international law sanctioned by the recent practice of nations.
On April 28, 1898, (after the capture of the two fishing vessels now in question,) Admiral Sampson telegraphed to the
Secretary of the Navy as follows: "I find that a large number of fishing schooners are attempting to get into Havana
from their fishing grounds near the Florida reefs and coasts.
They are generally manned by excellent seamen, belonging

TIM PAQUETE IfA1_NA.
Opinion of the Court.

to the maritime inscription of Spain, who have already served
in the Spanish navy, and who are liable to further service.
.As these trained men are naval reserves, have, a semi-military
character, and would be most valuable to the Spaniards as
artillerymen, either afloat or ashore, I recommend that they
should be detained prisoners of war, and that I should be
authorized to deliver them to the commanding officer of the
army at Key West." To that communication the Secretary
of the Navy, on April 30, 1898, guardedly answered: "Spanish fishing vessels attempting to violate blockade are subject,
with crew, to capture, and any such vessel or crew considered
likely to aid enemy may be detained." Bureau of Navigation
Report of 1898, appx. 178. The Admiral's despatch assumed
that he was not authorized, without express order, to arrest
coast fishermen peaceably pursuing their calling; and the
necessary implication and evident intent of the' response of
the Navy Department were that Spanish coast fishing vessels
and their crews should not be interfered with, so long as they
neither attempted to violate the. blockade, nor were considered likely to aid-the enemy.
The Paquete Habana, as the record shows,- was a fishing
sloop of 25 tons burden, sailing under the Spanish flag, running in and out of Havana, and regularly engaged in fishing
on the coast of Cuba. Her crew consisted of but three men,
including the master; and, according to a common usage in
coast fisheries, had no interest in the vessel, but were entitled
to two thirds of her catch, the other third belonging to her
Spanish owner, who, as well as the crew, resided in Havana.
On her last voyage, she sailed from Havana along the coast
of Cuba, about two hundred miles, and fished for twenty-five
days off the cape at the west end of the island, within the
territorial waters of. Spain; and was going back to Havana,
with her cargo of live fish, when she was captured by -one of
the blockading squadron, on April 25, 1898. She had no arms
or ammunition on board; she had no knowledge of the bl6okade, or even of the war, until she was stopped by a blockading vessel; she made no attempt to run the blockade, and no
resistance at the time of the capture; nor was there any evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

dence whatever of likelihood that she or her crew would aid
the enemy.

In the case of the Lola, the only differences in the facts were
that she was a schooner of 35 tons burden, and had a crew of
six men, including the master; that after leaving Havana, and
proceeding some two hundred miles along the coast of Cuba, she
went on, about a hundred miles farther, to the coast of Yucatan, and there fished for eight days; and that, on her return,
when near Bahia Honda, on the coast of Cuba, she was cap"tured, with her cargo of live fish, on April 27, 1898. These
differences afford no ground for distinguishing the two cases.
Each vessel was of a moderate size, such as is not unusual
in coast fishing smacks, and was regularly engaged in fishing
on the coast of Cuba. The crew of each were few in number,
had no interest in the vessel, and received, in return for their
toil and enterprise, two thirds of her catch, the other third
going to her owner by way of compensation for her use.
Each vessel went out from Havana to her fishing ground, and
was captured when returning along the coast of Cuba. T
cargo of each consisted of fresh fish, caught by her crew from
the sea, and kept alive on board. Although one of the vessels extended her fishing trip across the Yucatan Channel and
.fished 6n the. coast of Yucatan, we cannot doubt that each
was engaged in the coast fishery, and not in a commercial
- adventure, within the rule of international law.
The two vessels and their cargoes were condemned by the
District Court as prize of war; the vessels were sold under its
decrees.; and it does not appear what became of the fresh fish
of which their cargoes consisted.
Upon the facts proved in either case, .it is the duty of this
court, sitting as the highest prize court of the United States,
and. administering the law of nations, to declare and adjudge
that the capture was unlawful, and without probable cause;
-and it is therefbre, in each case,
Orde'ed, that-: the defree of the District Court be reversed,
and the yroceeds of the sale of the vessel, together wiith the
proceeds of any sale of her cargo, be restored to the claimant, with damages and costs.

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Harlan, McKenna, JJ.
Mm.

CmEF JUSTICE FuLIER,

with whom concurred MR.

JUSTiCE. HARLAN and MR.JUSTIoE MoKENNA, dissenting.
The District Court held these vessels and their cargoes
liable because not "satisfied that as a matter of law, without
any ordinance, treaty or proclamation, fishing vessels of this
class are exempt from seizure."1
This court holds otherwise, not because such exemption is
to be found in any treaty, legislation, proclamation or instruction, granting it, but on the ground that the vessels were
exempt by reason of an established rule of international law
applicable to them, which it.is the duty of the court to
enforce.
I am *unableto conclude that there is any such established
international rule, or that this court can properly revise action
which must be treated as having been taken in the ordinary
exercise of discretion in the conduct of War.
It cannot be maintained "that modern usage constitutes a
rule which acts directly upon the thing itself by its own force,
and not through the sovereign power." That position was disallowed in Brown v. The United States, 8 Cranch,.110, 128,
and Chief Justice Marshall said: "This usage is a guide which
the sovereign follows or abandons at his will. The rule, like
other precepts of morality, of humanity and even of wisdom,
is addressed to the judgment of the sovereign; and although
it cannot be disregarded by him without obloquy,'yet it may
be disregarded. The rule is, in its nature, flexible. It is subject to infinite modification. It is not an immutable rule of
law, but depends on political considerations which may continually vary."
The question in that case related to the confiscation of the
property of the enemy on land within our own territory, and
it was held that property so situated could not be confiscated
without an act of Congress. The Chief Justice continued:
"Commercial nations; in the situation of the United States,
have always a considerable quantity of -property in the possession of their neighbors. When war breaks out, the question,
what shall be done with enemy property in our country, is a

OCTOBER

'E1W,180q.

Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

question rather of policy than of law. The rule which we apply
to the property of our enemy, will be applied by him to the
property of our citizens. Like all other questions of policy, it
is proper for the consideration of a department which can
modify it at will; not for the consideration of a department
which can pursue only the law as it is written. It is proper
for the consideration of the legislature, not of the executive
or judiciary2'
This case involves the capture of enemy's property on the
sea, and executive action, and if the position that the alleged
rule proprio vigore limits the sovereign power in war be
rejected, then I understand the contention to be that, by
reason of the existence of the rule, the proclamation of April
26 must be read as if it contained the exemption in terms, or
the exemption must be allowed because the capture of fishing
vessels of this class was not specifically authorized.
The, preamble to the proclamation stated, it is true, that it
was desirable that the war "should be conducted upon principles in harmony with the present views of nations and
sanctioned by their recent practice," but the reference was to
the intention of the Government "not to resort to privateering, but to adhere to ihe rules of the Declaration of Paris;"
and the proclamation spoke for itself. The language of the
preamble did not carry the exemption in terms, and the real
question is whether it must be allowed because not affirmatively withheld, or, in other words, because such captures were
not in terms directed.
These records show that the Spanish sloop Paquete Habana "was captured as a prize of war by the U. S. S. Castine"
on April 25, and" was delivered" by the Castine's commander
"to Rear Admiral Win. T. Sampson, (commanding the North
Atlantic Squadron,)" and thereupon "turned over" to a prize
master with instructions to proceed to Key West.
And that the Spanish schooner Lola "was captured as a
prize of war by the U. S. S. Dolphin," April 27, and "was
delivered" by the Dolphin's commander "to Rear Admiral
Win. T. Sampson, (commanding the North Atlantic Squadron,)" and thereupon "turned over" to a prize master with
instructions to proceed to Key West.

THE PAQUETE 1HABANA.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Harlan, McKenna, J.

That the vessels were accordingly taken to Key West and
there libelled, and that the decrees of condemnation were
entered against them May 30.
It is impossible to concede that the Admiral ratified these
eaptures in disregard of established international law and the
proclamation, or that the President, if he had been of opinion
that there was any infraction of law or proclamation, would
not have intervened prior to condemnation.
The correspondence of April 28, 30, between the Admiral
and the Secretary of the Navy, quoted from in the principal opinion, was entirely consistent with the validity of the
captures.
The question put by the Admiral related to the detention
as prisoners of war of the persons manning the fishing schooners "attempting to get into Havana." Non-combatants are
not so detained except -for special reasons. Sailors on board
enemy's trading vessels are made prisoners because of their
fitness for immediate use on ships of war. Therefore the
Admiral pointed out the value of these fishing seamen to the
enemy, and advised their detention. The Secretary replied
that if the vessels referred to were "attempting to violate
blockade" they were subject "with crew" to capture, and
also that they might be detained if "considered likely to aid
enemy." The point was whether these crews should be made
prisoners of war. Of course they would be liable to be if involved in the guilt of blockade running, and the Secretary
agreed that they might be on the other ground in the Admiral's
discretion.
All this was in accordance with the rules and usages of
international law, with which, whether in peace or war, the
naval service has always been necessarily familiar.
I come then to examine the proposition "that at the present day, by the general consent of the civilized nations of the
world, and independently of any express treaty or other public act, it is an established rule -of international law, founded
on considerations of humanity to a poor and industrious order
of men, and of the mutual convenience of belligerent States,
that coast fishing vessels, with their implements and supplies,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

cargoes and crews, unarmed, and honestly pursuing their peaceful calling of catching and bringing in of fresh fish, are exempt
from capture as prize of war."
This, it is said, is a rule "which prize courts, administering
the law of nations, are bound to take judicial notice of, and
to give effect to, in the absence of treaty or other public act
of their own government."
At the same time it is admitted that the alleged exemption
does not apply "to coast fishermen or their vessels, if employed
fdr a warlike purpose, or in such a way as to give aid or information to the enemy; nor when military or naval operations
create a necessity to which all private interests must give
way;" and further that the exemption has not "been extended to ships or vessels employed on the high sea in taking
whales or seals, or cod or other fish which are not brought
fresh to market, but are salted or otherwise curedI and made
a regular article of commerce."
It will be perceived that the exceptions reduce the supposed
rule to very narrow limits, requiring a careful examination of
the facts in order to ascertain its applicability; and the decision appears to me to go altogether too far in respect of dealing with captures diredted or ratified by the officer in command.
But were these two vessels within the alleged exemption?
They were of twenty-five and thirty-five tons burden respectively. They carried large taniks, in which the fish taken were
kept alive. They were owned by citizens of Havana, and the
owners and the masters and crew were to be compensated by
shares of the catch. One of them had been two hundred
miles from Havana, off Cape San Antonio, for twenty-five
days, and the other for eight days off the coast of Yucatan.
They. belonged, in short, to the clays of fishing or coasting
vessels of from five to twenty tons burden, and from twenty
tons upwards, which, when licensed or enrolled as prescribed
by the Revised Statutes, are declared to be vessels of the
United States, and the shares of whose men, when the vessels
are employed in fishing, are regulated by statute. They were
engaged in what were substantially commercial ventures, and
the mere fact that the fish were kept alive by contrivances

THE rAQIUETE HTTBA] A.

719

Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

for that purpose - a practice of considerable antiquity - did
,not render them any the less an article of trade than if they
had been brought in cured.
I do not think that, under the circumstances, the considerations which have operated to mitigate the evils of war in
respect of individual harvesters of the soil cant properly be
invoked on behalf of these hired vessels, as being the implements of like harvesters of the sea. Not only so as to the
owners but as to the masters and crews. The"principle which
exempts the husbandman and his instruments of labor, exempts
the industry in which he is engaged, and is not applicable in
protection of the continuance of transactions of such character and extent as these.
In truth, the exemption of fishing craft is essentially an
act of grace, and not a matter of right, and it is extended
or denied as the exigency is believed to demand.
It is, said Sir William Scott, "a rule of comity only, and
not of legal decision."
The modern view is thus expressed by Mr. Hall: "England
does not seem to have been unwilling to spare fishing vessels
so long as they are harmless, and it does not appear that any
State has accorded them immunity under circumstances of
inconvenience to itself. It is likely that all nations would
now refrain from molesting them as a generar rule, and would
capture them so soon as any danger arose that they or their
crews might be of military use to the enemy; and it is also
likely that it is impossible to grant them a more distinct
exemption."
In the Crimean War, 1854-5, none of the orders in council,
in terms, either exempted or included fishing vessels, yet the
allied squadrons swept the Sea of Azof of all craft capable
of furnishing the means of transportation, and the English
admiral in the Gulf of Finland directed the destruction of all
Russian coasting vessels, not of sufficient value to be detained
as prizes, except "boats or small craft which may be found
empty at anchor, and not trafficking."
It is difficult to conceive of a law of the sea of universal
obligation to which Great Britain has not acceded. And I

720

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Harlan, McKenna, JJ.

am not aware of adequate foundation for imputing to this
country the adoption of any other than the English rule.
In his Lectures on International Law at the Naval Law
College the late Dr. Freeman Snow laid it down that the
exemption could not be asserted as a rule of international law.
These lectures were edited by Commodore Stockton and published under the direction of the Secretary of the Navy in
1895, and, by that department, in a second edition, in 1898,
so that in additiun to the well-known merits of their author
they possess the weight to be attributed to the official imprimatur. Neither our treaties nor settled practice are opposed
to that conclusion.
In view of the circumstances surrounding the breaking out
of the Mexican War, Commodore Conner, commanding the
Home Squadron, on -May 14, 1846, directed his officers, in
respect of blockade, not to molest "Mexican boats engaged
exclusively in fishing on any part of the coast," presumably
small boats in proximity to the shore; while on the Pacific
coast Commodore Stockton in the succeeding August ordered
the capture of" all vessels under the Mexican flag."
The treaties with Prussia of 1785, 1799 and 1828, and of
1848 with Mexico, in exempting fishermen, "unarmed and
inhabiting unfortified towns, villages or places," did not
exempt fishing vessels from seizure as prize; and these captures evidence the- convictions entertained and acted on in
the late war with Spain.
It is needless to review the speculations and repetitions of
the writers on international law. Ortolan, De Boeck and
others admit that the custom- relied on as consecrating the
immunity is not so general as to create an absolute international rule; Heffter, Calvo and others are to the contrary.
Their lucubrations may be persuasive, but are not authoritative.
In my judgment, the rule is that exemption from the rigors
of war is in the control of the Executive. He is bound by no
immutable rule on the subject. It is for him to apply, or to
modify, or to deny altogether such immunity as may have
been usually extended.

THE PAQUETE HABANA.
Modification of Decree.

-Exemptions may be designated in advance, or grapted
according to circumstances, but carrying on war involves
the infliction of the hardships of war at least to the extent
that the seizure or destruction of enemy's property on sea
need not be specifically authorized in order to be accomplished.
Being of opinion that these -vessels were not exempt as
matter of law, I am constrained to dissent from the .opinion
and judgment of the court; and my brothers Harlan and
AMcKenna concur in this dissent.

On January 29, 1900, the court, in each case, on motion of
the Solicitor General in behalf of the United States, and after
argument of counsel thereon, and to secure the carrying out
of the opinion and decree according to their true meaning
and intent, ordered that the decree be so modified as to direct
that the damages to be allowed shall be compensatory only,
and not punitive.

VOL. cLxxv-46

