ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. !NITED STATES. 21i
Syllabus.

A&DDYSTON PIPE AND STEEL COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIROUIT.
No.51.

Argued April 26, 27,1899. -Decided

December 4,1899.

Under the grant of power to Congress, contained in Section 8 of article I
of the Constitution, " to regulate commerce with Foreign-Nations and
among the several States, and with Indian Tribes," that body may enact
such legislation as shall declare void and prohibit the performadiee of
any contract between individuals or corporations where the natural and
direct effect of such a contract shall be, when carried out, to directly
and not as a mere incident to other and innocent purposes, regulate to
any extent interstate or foreign commerce.
The provision in the Constitution regarding the liberty of the citizen is to
some extent limited by this commerce clause; and the power of Congress..
to regulate interstate commerce comprises the right to enact a law prohibiting the citizen from entering into those private contracts which
directly and substantially, and not merely indirectly, remotely, incidentally and collaterally, regulate, to a greater or less degree, commerce
among the States.
Interstate commerce consists of intercourse and traffic between the citizens
or inhabitants of different States, and includes not only the transportation of persons and property and the navigation of public waters for
that purpose, but also the purchase, sale and exchange of commodities.
The power to regulate interstate commerce, and to prescribe the rules by
which it shall be governed, is vested in Congress, and when that body
has enacted a statute such as the act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, entitled
"an act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and
monopolies," any agreement or combination which directly operates, not
alone upon the manufacture, but upon the sale, transportation and delivery of an article of interstate commerce, by preventing or restricting
its sale, thereby regulates interstate commerce to that extent, and thus
trenches upon the power of the national legislature, and violates the
statute.
The' contracts considered in this case, set forth in the statement of facts
and in the opinion of the court, relate to the sale and transportation to
other States of specific articles, not incidentally or collaterally, but as
a direct and immediate result of the combination entered into by the
defendants; and they restrain the manufacturing, purchase, sale or
exchange of the manufactured articles among the several States, and
enhance their value, and thus come within the provisions of the ,act
to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and monopolies.;

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
When the direct, immediate and intended effect of a contract or combination among dealers in a commodity is the enhancement of its price, it
amounts to a restraint of trade in the commodity, even though contracts
to buy it at the enhanced price are being made.
The judgment of the court below, which perpetually enjoined the defendants in the court below from maintaining the combination in cast-iron
pipe as described In the petition, and from doing any business under
such combination, is too broad, as it applies equally to commerce which
is wholly within a State as well as to that which is interstate or international only.
Although the jurisdiction of Congress over commerce among the States is
full and complete, it is not questioned that it has none over that which
is wholly within a State, and therefore none over combinations or agreements so far as they relate to a restraint of such trade or commerce: nor
does it acquire any jurisdiction over that part of a combination or agreement which relates to commerce wholly within a State, by reason of the
the fact that the combination also covers and regulates commerce which
is interstate.

THIS proceeding was commenced in behalf of the United
States, under the so-called anti-trust act of Congress, of July 2,
1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209. It was undertaken for the purpose
of obtaining an injunction perpetually enjoining the six corporations, who were made defendants, and who were engaged
in the manufacture, sale and transportation of iron pipe at
their respective places of business in the States of their residence, from further acting under or.carrying on the combination alleged in the petition to have been entered into between
them, and which was stated to be an illegal and unlawful onei
under the act above mentioned, because it was in restraint of
trade and commerce among the States, etc.
The trial court dismissed the petition, 78 Fed. Rep. 712, but
upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals the judgment of
the court below *was reversed with instructions to enter a
decree for the United States perpetually enjoining defendants
from maintaining the combination in cast-iron pipe as described
in the petition, and from doing any business under such combination. 54 U. S. App. 723. The six defendants are The
Addyston Pipe and Steel Company of Cincinnati, Ohio; Dennis Long & Company, of Louisville, Kentucky; The Howard-Harrison Iron Company, of Bessemer, Alabama; The
Anniston Pipe and Foundry Company, of Anniston, Ala-

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.

213

Statement of the Case.

bama; The South Pittsburg Pipe Works, of South Pittsburg,
Tennessee, and The Chattanooga Foundry and Pipe Works, of
Chattanooga, Tennessee; one company being in the State of
Ohio, one in Kentucky, two in Alabama and two in Tennessee.
The following are in substance the facts Upon which the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals rested, as stated in
the record:
It was charged in the petition that on the 28th of December, 1891, the defendants entered into a combination and conspiracy among themselves, by which they agreed 'that ;here
should be no competition between them in any of the 'States
or Territories mentioned in the agreement, (comprising some
thirty-six in all,) in regard to the manufacture and sale of castiron pipe, and that in obedience to such agreement and combination, and to carry out the same, the defendants had since
that time operated their shops and had been selling and shipping the pipe manufactured by them into other States and
Territories, under contracts for the manufacture and sale of
such pipe with citizens of such other States and Territories..
There was to be a '1 bonus" charged against the manufacture
of the pipe, to the extent set fdrth in the agreements and to
be paid as therein stated. The whole agreement was charged
to have been entered into in order to enhance the price for
the iron pipe dealt in by the defendants.
The petition prayed that all pipe sold and transported from
one State to another, under the combination and conspiracy
described therein, be forfeited to the petitioner and be seized
and confiscated in the manner provided by law, and that a
decree be entered dissolving the unlawful conspiracy of defendants and perpetually enjoining them from operating under the
same and from selling said cast-iron pipe in accordance therewith to be transported from one State into another.
The defendants filed a joint and separate demurrer to the
petition in so far as it, prayed for the confiscation of goods in
transit, on the ground that such proceedings under the antitrust act are not to be had in a court of equity, but in a court
of law. In addition to the demurrer, the defendants filed a
joint and separate answer, in which they admitted the exist

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

ence of an association between them for the purpose of avoiding the great losses they would otherwise sustain, due to
ruinous competition between defendants, but denied that their
association was in restraint of trade, state or interstate, or
that it was organized to create a monopoly, and denied that it
was a violation of the anti-trust act of Congress.
Testimony in the form of affidavits was submitted by petitioner and defendants, and by stipulation it was agreed that
the final hearing might be had thereon.
From the minutes of the association, a copy of which was
put in evidence by the petitioner, it appeared that prior to
December 28, 1894, the Anniston Compaiiy, the HowardHarrison Company, the Chattanooga Company and the South
Pittsburg Company had been associated as the Southern
Associated Pipe Works. Upon that date the Addyston Company and Dennis Long & Co. were admitted to membership,
and the following plan was then adopted :
"First. The bonuses on the first 9Q,000 tons of pipe secured
in any territory, 16" and smaller, shall be divided equally
among six shops.
"Second. The bonuses on the next 75,000 tons, 30"t and
smaller, sizes to be divided among five shops, South Pittsburg not participating.
"Third. The bonuses of the next 40,000 tons, 36" and
smaller, sizes to be divided among four .shops, Anniston and
South Pittsburg not participating.
"Fourth. The bonus on the next 15,000 tons, consisting of
all sizes of pipe, shall be divided among three shops, Chattanooga, South Pittsburg and Anniston not participating.
"The above .division is based on the following tonnage of
capacity:
South Pittsburg ............ ... 1,000 tons.
Anniston ........................ 30,000 tons.
Chattandoga ..................... 40,000 tons.
Bessemer ........................ 45,000 tons.
Louisville ...... .................. 45,000 tons.
Cincinnati ........................ 45,000 tons.

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 215
Statement of the Case.

"When the 220,000 tons have been made and shipped and
the bonuses divided as here4fter provided, the auditor shall
set 'aside into a reserve fund all bonuses arising from the
excess of shipments over 220,000 'tons, and shall divide the
same at the end of the year among the respective companies
according to the percentage of the excess of tonnage they
may have shipped (of the sizes made by them) either in pay
or free territory. It is also the intention of this proposition
that the bonuses on all .pipe larger than 36 inches in diameter
shall be divided equally between the Addyston Pipe and Steel
Company, Dennis Long & Co. and the Howard-Harrison
Comipany.
"It was thereupon resolved:
"First. That this agreement shall last for two years from
the date of the signing of same, until December 31, 1896.
.".Second. On any question coming before the association
requiring a vote, it shall take five affirmative votes thereon
to carry said question, each member of this association being
entitled to but one vote.
"Third. The Addyston Pipe and Steel Company shall
handle the business of the gas and water companies of Cincinnati, Ohio, Covington and Newport Ky., and pay the
bonus hereafter mentioned, and the balance of the parties to
this agreement shall bid on such work such reasonable prices
as they shall dictate.
"Fourth. Dennis Long & Company of Louisville, Ity.,
shall handle Louisville, Ky., Jeffersonville, Ind., and New
Albany, Ind., furnishing all the pipe for gas and water works
in above-named cities.
"Fifth. The Anniston Pipe and Foundry Company shall
handle Anniston, Ala., and Atlanta, Ga., furnishing all pipe
for gas and water companies in above-named cities.
"Sixth. The Chattanooga Foundry and Pipe Works shall
handle Chattanooga, Tenn., and New Orleans, La., furnishing
all gas and water pipe in above-named cities.
"Seventh. The Howard-Harrison Iron Company shall handle Bessemer and Birmingham, Ala., and St. Louis, Mo.,
furnishing all 'pipe for gas and water companies in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

above-named cities; extra bonus to be put on East St. Louis
and Madison, Ill., so as to protect the prices named for St.
Louis, Mo.
"Eighth. South Pittsburg Pipe Works shall handle Omaha,
Neb., on all sizes required by that city during the year of
1895, conferring with the other companies and co6perating
with them; thereafter they shall handle the gas and water
companies of Omaha, Neb., on such sizes as they make.
"NoTE. -It

is understood that all the shops who are mem-

bers of this association shall handle the business of the gas
and water companies of the cities set apart for them, including all sizes of pipe made by them.
"The following bonuses were adopted for the different
States as named below: All railroad or culvert pipe or pipe
for any drainage or sewerage purposes on 12" and larger
sizes shipped into bonus territory shall pay a bonus of $1.00
per ton. On all sizes below 12" and shipped into ' bonus territory' for the purposes above named, there shall be a bonus
of $2.00 per ton.
List of Bonuse~S.
Alabama ........ $3 00
S. D ............
$2 00
Ky ............
62 00
B'gham, Ala..... 2 00
Florida .........
1 00
La...............
3 0,0
Anniston, Ala... 2 00
Georgia .........
2 00
Miss ............
4 00
Mobile, Ala ..... 1 00
Atlanta, Ga ..... 2 00
Mo ...........
2 00
Arizona Ter..... 3 00
Ga. coast p'ts... 1 00
Montana ........
3 00
California ....... 1 00
Idaho... ....... 2 00
Nebraska .......
3 00
Colorado ........
2 00
Nev ............
N. Mex ..........
3 00
3 00
Ind. Ter ........ 3 00
Oklahoma ....... 3 00
S.C .............
100
North C .........
1 00
Wis .............
Minn............ 2 00
2 00
Tenn., east of
C'land.........
2 00
Texas, interior.. 3 00
Tenn., middle and
west ..........
3 00
Texas coast ..... 1 00
Illinois, except Madison and East St. Louis, as previously provided...
Wyoming ........ 4 00
Wash'ton Ter... 1 00
Utah ............
Oregon ........
1 00
Michigan ........ 1 50
Indiana .........
Ohio ............
1 50
West Va ........ 1 00 - Iowa ............
N. D ............
2 00
Kansas ..........
2 00
All other territory free.

"On motion of Mr. Llewellyn, the bonuses on all city work
as specially reserved shall be $2.00 per ton."

ADDYSTOK PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 217
Statement 'of the Case.
The States for sale in which bonuses had to be paid into
the association were called "pay" territory as distinguished
from "free" territory in which defendants were at liberty to
make sales without restriction and without paying any bonus.
The by-laws provided for an auditor of the association,
whose duty it was to keep account of the business done by
each shop both in pay and free territory. On the 1st and
16th of each month he was required to send to each shop "a
statement of alr shipments reported in the previous half month,
with a balance sheet showing the total amount of the premiums
on shipments, the division of the same and debt credit balance
of each company."
The system of bonuses as a means of restricting competition and maintaining prices was not successful. A change
was therefore made by which prices were to be fixed for each
contract by the association, and except in reserved cities, the
bidder was determined by competitive bidding of the members,
the one agreeing to give the highest bonus for division among
the others getting the contract. The plan was embodied in a
resolution passed May 27, 1895, in the words following:
"Whereas, the system now in operation in this association
of having a fixed bonus on the several States has not in its
operation resulted in the advancement in the yrices of _ipe as
was anticipated, execept in resemed cities, and some further
action is imperatively necessary in order to accomplish the
ends for which this association was formed: Therefore, be it
resolved, that from and after the first day of June, that all
competition on the pipe lettings shall take place among the
various pipe shops prior to the said letting. To accomplish
this purpose it is proposed that the six competitive shops have
a representative board located at some central city to whom
all inquiries for pipe shall be referred, and said board shall
fix the price at which said pipe shall be sold, and bids taken
from the respective shops for the privilege of handling the.
order, and the party securing the order shall have the protection of all the other shops."
In pursuance of the new plan it was further agreed "that
all parties to this association having quotations out shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

notify their customers that the same will be withdrawn by
June 1, 1895, if not previously accepted, and upon all business accepted on and after June 1st bonuses shall be fixed by
the committee."
At the meeting of December 19, 1895, it was moved and
carried that upon all inquiries for prices from "reserved
cities" for pipe required during the year of 1896, prices and
bonuses should be fixed at a regular or called meeting of the
principals.
At the meeting of December 20, 1895, the plan for division
of bonuses originally adopted was modified by making the
basis the total amounts shipped into "pay" territory rather
than the totals shipped into "pay" and "free" territory.
To illustrate the mode of doing business the following
excerpt from the minutes of the meetings of December 20,
1895, February 14, 1896, and March 13, 1896, is given:
"It was moved to sell the 519 pieces of 20" pipe from
Omaha, Neb., for $23.40, delivered. Carried. It was moved
that Anniston participate in the bonus and the job be sold
over the table. Carried. Pursuant to the motion, the 519
pieces of 20" pipe for Omaha was sold to Bessemer at a
premium of $8.
"1Moved that ' bonus' on Anniston's Atlanta water works
contract be fixed at $7.10, provided freight is $1.60 a ton.
Carried."
An illustration of the manner in-which "reserved" cities
were dealt with may be seen in the case of a public letting at
St. Louis. On February 4, 1896, the water department. of that
city let bids for 2800 tons of pipe. St. Louis was "reserved"
to the Howard-Harrison Company of Bessemer, Alabama.
The price was fixed by the association at $24 a ton, and the
bonus at $6.50. Before the letting the vice president of this
company wrote to the other members of the association under
date of January 24, 1896, as follows:
"I write to say that in view of the fact that I do not as yet
know what the drayage will be on this pipe, I prefer that if
any of you find it necessary' to pta iii a bid without going tW
St. Louis, please bid not less' than $27 for the pipe, and 2

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 219
Statement of the Case.

cents per pound for the specials. I would also like to know
as to which of you would find it convenient to have a representative at the letting. It will be necessary to have two
outside bidders."
The contract was let to the Howard-Harrison Company of
Bessemer,' at $24, who allowed the Shickle, Harrison and
Howard Company, a pipe company of St. Louis, not in the
association, but having the same president as the HowardHarrison Company of Bessemer, to fill part of the order.
The only other bidders were the Addyston Pipe and Steel
Company, and Dennis Long & Co., the former bidding $24.37
and the latter $24.57. The evidence shows that the Chattanooga foundry could have furnished this pipe, delivered in
St. Louis, at from $17 to $18, and could have made a profit
on it at that price. The record is full of instances of a similar
kind, in which, after the successful bidder had been fixed by
the "auction pool," or had been fixed by the arrangement as
to "reserve" cities, the other defendants put in bids at the
public letting as high as the selected bidder requested, in
order to give the appearance of active competition between
defendants.
In January, 1896, after the auction pool had been in operation for more than six months, the- Chattanooga Company
wrote a.letter to its representative in the central committee.
The letter is dated January 2, 1896, and is as follows:
"DEAR SM: Referring to our policy for 1896, in bidding on
pipe, we have had this matter under consideration for some
time past, and from the information obtained from Mr.
Thornton's statement as to the amount of business done last
year in pay territory and from estimates that we have made
for business, that will come into that territory for 1896, we
have been able to determine to what point we could bid on
work and take contracts, and if *bonus is forced above this
point, let it go and take the bonus. We note from your
letter of yesterday that you have sized up the situation iniits
essential points, and it agrees exactly with our ideas on the
subject. It is useless to argue that Howard-Harrison Iron Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the .Case.

Cincinnati, and other shops, who have been bidding bonuses
of $6 or $8 per ton, can come out and make any money if
they continue to bid such bonus. In the case of the HowardHarrison Iron Co., people on Jacksonville, Fla. The truth of
the. business is they are losing money at the prices they bid
for this work. If they take the contract at $19 delivered, it
will only net $16 at the shop after they have paid back the
bonus of $1.75; if they should continue to buy all the pipe
that goes up to such figures as they have paid for Jacksonville
and other points, they would wreck their shop in a few months.
However, they 6f course calculate this bonus will be returned
to them on work taken by other shops. We are very much
pleased with the bonus that has been paid and we only hope
they will keep it up as it is only money in our pockets. As
long as there is no money to us let them make the pipe, as we
shall continue to do so.
"For the present you will adopt the following basis:
"On 16" and under standard weights, $14.25 at shop.
"On 18" and 36" standard weights, $13.
"On 16" and under light weights, $14.50 to $14.75 at shop.
"That is, you will bid all over $13, $14.25 and $14.50 on
work. If we get' work at these. prices 'it will be satisfactory.
If the -others run bonus above this point let them take it, as
it will be more money to us to take the bonus.
"We note Mr. Thornton's report of average premiums from
June 1st to December, that the average was $3.63. The average bonuses that are prevailing to-day are $7 to $8. We cannot expect this to continue, and we think your estimate of $6
ton average bonus is high - as we do not believe the premiums
of '96 will average that price, unless there is a decided change
for the better in business. We find there were sold and shipped
into pay territory from January 1, 1895, to date, including the
40,000 tons of old business that did not pay a bonus, about
188,000 tons, and we think a very conservative estimate of
shipments into this territory will amount to fully 200,000 this
year; niore than that, probably overrun 240,000 tons, from
the fact that the city of Chicago and several other places that
annually use large quantities of pipe were not in the market

ADDYSTOR PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 221
Statement of the Case.
last year, or last season, from the fact that they were out of
funds. On the basis as given you above, if the demand should
reach 220,000 tons, which would give us our entire 40,000 tons,
provided we did no business, then the association would pay
us the average 'bonus,' which might be from $3.50 to $5 on
our 40,000. If we cannot secure business in 'pay territory'
at paying prices, we think we will be able to dispose of our
output in 'free territory,' and of course make some profit on
that.
"At the prices that Howard-larrison people paid for Jacksonville, Des Plaines and one or two other points, they are losing from $2.50 to $3 per ton, that is, provided ' bonuses ' would
not be returned to them. Therefore when business goes at a
loss, we are willing that other shops make it."
Another letter was written by the same company pending
a trouble over a letting at Atlanta. The Anniston Company
to whom Atlanta had been "reserved" made its bid so high
($24) that a Philadelphia pipe firm, R. D. Wood & Co., had
been able to underbid the Anniston Company in spite of
difference in freights. All the bids had been rejected as too
high, and upon a second letting Anniston's bid was $1.25 a
ton less, and the job was awarded to it. The charge was
then made by Atlanta persons that there was a "trust" or
This was vigorously denied. The letter of the
"combine."
Chattanooga Company evoked by this difficulty was dated
February 25, 1896, and reads as follows:
" GNTLm FN : We are in receipt of a carbon copy of your
favor of the 24th instant to F. B. Nichols, V. P., in reference
tc Atlanta, Ga. We certainly regret that the matter has
assumed its present shape, and that R. D. Wood & Company
should make a lower bid by one dollar a ton than the southern shops. You know we have always been opposed to special
customers and ' reserved cities,' we do not think that it is the
right principle and we believe if the present association continues, that all special customers and 'reserved cities' should
be wiped out; there is no good reason why we should be
allowed to handle New Orleans, you Atlanta, Howard-Har-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

rison Iron Co., St. Louis, or South Pittsburg, Omaha. We
are not in the business to award special privileges to any
foundry, and we believe that the result would be more benefit to all concerned if all business was made competitive. It
-is hardly right, and we believe if you will think over the
matter carefully you will concede it, for us to be put into a
position of being unable to make prices or furnish pipe for
the city of Atlanta, when we have always heretofore had a
large share of their trade. We cannot explain our position
to the Atlanta people and we consider it is detrimental to our
business, and think no combination should have the power to
force us into such a position. The same argument will apply
with you as to New Orleans, St. Louis and other places. We
think this matter should be considered seriously and some action taken that will result in reestablishing ourselves (I
mean the four southern shops) in the confidence of the Atlanta
people. Wistar, R. D. Wood & Company's man, has no doubt
told them all about our association, or as much as he could guess,
and has worked up a very bitter feeling against us. The very
fact that you have been protected and have had all their business for the past two years is proof to them that such a I combination ' exists, and they state that if they find out positively
that we are~working together, they will never receive a bid
from any one of us again. We cannot afford to leave these
people under that impression, and something ought to be
done that would disprove Mr. Wistar's statement to them.
We believe that all business ought to be competitive. The
fact that certain shops have certain cities 'reserved' is all
based upon mere sentiment, and no good reason exists why
it should be so. We believe that, as a general thing, we have
had our prices entirely too high, and especially do we believe
this has been the case as to prices in 'reserved cities.' The
prices made at St. Louis and Atlanta are entirely out of all
,reason, and the result has been and always will be, when
high prices are named, to create a bad feeling and an agitaThere is no reason why
tion against the 'combination.'
Omaha should be made
or
St.
Louis
Atlanta, New Orleans,
to pay higher .prices for their pipe than other places near

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO.v. UNITED STATES: 223
Statement of the Case.

them, who do not use anything like the amount of pipe and
whose trade is not as desirable for many other reasons. There
is no sentiment existing with us in reference to Atlanta, as we
would as soon sell our pipe anywhere else, only as stated above,
it is wrong in principle that we should be forced to give up
Atlanta or any other point for no good reason that we know
of."
It appears quite clearly from the prices at which the Chattanooga and the South Pittsburg Companies offered pipe in
"free" territory that any price which would net them from
$13 to $15 a ton at their foundries would give them a profit.
Pipe was freely offered by the defendants in "free" territory
more than five hundred miles from their foundries at less
prices than their representative boards fixed prices for jobs
let in cities in "pay" territory nearer to defendants' foundries
by three hundred miles" or more.
The defendants adduced many affidavits of a formal type,
chiefly from persons who had been buying pipe from defendants
and other companies, who testified in a general .way that the
pi ces at which the pipe had been offered by defendants all over
the country had been reasonable, but in not one of the affidavits
was any attempt made to give figures as to cost of production
and freight, and in not a single case were the specific instances
shown by the evidence for the petitioner disputed.
There was some evidence as to the capacity of the defendants' mills. The division of bonuses was based on an aggregate yearly output of 220,000 tons, but there are averments
in the answer that indicate that this was not a statement of
the actual limit of capacity, but was only taken as a standard
of restricted output upon which to calculate an equitable division of bonuses. Nowhere in the large mass of affidavits is
there any statement of the Yer dierm capacity of the defendants' mills. Taking their aggregate capacity, however, as
220,000 tons, that of the other mills in the "pay " territory
was 170,500 tons, and that of the mills in the "free" territory
was 348,000 tons, according to the affidavit of the chief officer
of one of the defendants. Of the non-association mills in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

"pay territory one was at Pueblo, Colorado, another was in
the state penitentiary at Waco, Texas, and a third in Oregon.
Their aggregate annual capacity was 45,500 tons. Another
non-association mill was the Shickle, Howard-Harrison mill
of St. Louis, Missouri, with a capacity of 12,000 tons. John
W. Harrison, who was president of this company, was also
president of the Howard-Harrison mill at Bessemer, Alabama,
which was a member of the association, and it appears that
an order taken by the Bessemer imill dt St. Louis was partly
filled by the St. Louis mill. The other mills in the "pay"
territory were one at Columbus, Ohio, with an annual capacity
of 30,000 tons, one at Cleveland, Ohio, of 60,000 tons, one at
New Comerstown, in northeastern Ohio, of 8000 tons, and one at
Detroit, Michigan, of 15,000 tons, and their aggregate annual
capacity was 113,000 tons. In the "free" territory there was
one mill in eastern Yirginia with an annual capacity of 16,000
tons, four mills in eastern Pennsylvania with a capacity of
87,000 tons, three mills in New Jersey with a capacity of
210,000 tons, and two mills at New York, one at Utica and
another at Buffalo, with an aggregate capacity of 35,000 tons.
The evidence was scanty as to rates of freight upon iron
pipes, but enough appeared to show that the advantage in
freight rates which the defendants had over the large pipe
foundries in New York, eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey in bidding on contracts to deliver pipe in nearly all of the
"pay" territory varied from $2.00 to $6.00 a ton, according
to the location.
The defendants filed the affidavits of their managing officers,
in which they stated generally that the object of their association was not to raise prices beyond what was reasonable,
but only to prevent ruinous competition between defendants
which would have carried prices far below a reasonable point;
that the bonuses charged were not exorbitant profits ahd additions to a reasonable price, but they were deductions from a
reasonable price in the nature of a penalty or burden intended
to curb the natural disposition of each member to get all the
business possible and more than his due proportion; that the
prices fixed by the association were always reasonable and

A.DDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 225
Argument for Appellants.

were always fixed, as they must have been, with reference
to the very active competition of other pipe manufacturers for
every job; that the reason why they sold pipe at so much
cheaper rates in the "free" territory than in the "pay" terri.tory was because they were willing to sell at a loss to keep
their mills going rather than to stop them ; that the prices at
a city like St. Louis, in which the specifications were detailed
and precise, were higher because pipe had to be made especially for the job and they could not use stock on hand.
3!r. Frank Spurlock (with whom was Mr. Foster .Brown
on his brief) and .3ff. John W. Marrington for appellants,
cited in their briefs: Printing and Numerical Beg. Co.
v. Sampson, L. IR. 19 Eq. 462, 465; Rousillon v. Rousillon,
14 Oh. Div. 351, 365; .NationalBenefit Co. v. Union Itospital
Co., 45 Minnesota, 272; Oregon Steam, Navigation Co. v. Winso8, 20 Wall. 64, 68; Oakdale f anufacturing Co. v. Garst,
18 R. I. 484; Tode v. Gross, 127 N. Y. 480; Shrainka v.
Scharringhauisen, 8 M o.. App. 522; Beal v. Cliase, 31 Michigan, 490; Dolph v. Troy Laundry -Machinery Co., 28 Fed.
Rep. 553; S. C., 138 U. S. 617; _fellogg v. Larkin, 3 Pinney,
(Winconsin,) 123; Dueber Watch Case .Jfanufacturing Co. v.
E. Howard Watch & Clock Co., 35 U. S. App. 16; Central
Shade Roller Co. v. Cushman, 143 Mass. 353; Diamond
-Match Co. v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473; Leslie v. Lorillard,
110 N. Y. 519; Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396;
United States v. Trans Jissouri Freight Ass'n, 166 U. S.
290; Eastman v. Clark, 53 N. HI. 276; .fayrant v. Afarston,
67 Alabama, 453; Fay v. Davidson, 13 Minnesota, 523;
Mickens v. Evans, 3 Younge & Jervis, 318; Nbrat. Beneft Co.
v. Union Hospital Co., 45 Minnesota, 272; Hubbardv. .Miller,
27 Michigan, 15; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District,
120 U. S. 489; Emert v. Xfissouri, 156 U. S. 296; Asher v.
Texas, 128 U. S. 129; Stoutenburgh v. -Hennick, 129 U. S.
141; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, 307; Hopkins v.
United States, 171 U. S. -578; Bohn -Manufacturing Co. v.
Hollis, 51-Minnesota, 223; United States v. -. C. KYnight Co.,
156 U. S. 1; Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat, 419; State
VOL. CixV-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Freight Tax case, 15 Wallace, 232; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S.
517; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; Welton v. Xissouri, 91
U. S. 275; In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104; Paul v. Tirginia,
8 Wall. 168; Civil Rights cases, 109 U. S. 3; In re Debs, 158
U. S. 564; Scudder v. Union Natl Bank, 91 U. S. 406; United
States v. De Witt, 9 Wall. 41; license Tax cases, 5 Wall. 462;.
In re Rahrer,140 U. S. 545; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S.
501; Barron v. Baltimore,7 Pet. 243; .fonongahela _vay. Go.
v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; 2unn v. llinois, 94 U. S.
113; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; United States v. Joint
Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505; Anderson v. United States,
171 U. S. 604; .N. Y., lake Erie& Western Railroadv. Pennsylvania, 158 U. S. 431; Pittsburgh & Southern Coal 0o. v.
Bates, 156 U. S. 577; Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S.
194; S. C., 166 U. S. 185; Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S.
289; Pettibonev. United States, 148 U. S. 197; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678; Railroad Co. v. Richmond, 19 Wall.
584; -Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Dow v. Beidelman, 125
U. S. 680; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517; Packet Co. v.
Eeokuk, 95 U. S. 80; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578;
Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Boyd
v. United States, 1-16 U. S. 616,
ir. Solicitor General for the United States.
MF. JUSTICE PECKXrAM, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The foregoing statement, which has been mainly taken from
that preceding the opinion of Circuit Judge Taft, delivered
in this case in the Circuit Court of Appeals, comprises, as we
think, all that is essential to the discussion of the questions arising in this case, and we believe the statement to be fully borne
out as to the facts, by the evidence set forth in the record.
Assuming, for the purpose of the argument, that the contract in question herein does directly and substantially operate
as a restraint upon and as a regulation of interstate jcommerce,
it is yet insisted by the appellants at the threshold of the

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 227
Opinion of the Court.

inquiry that by the true construction of the Constitution, the
power of Congress to rbgulate interstate commerce is limited
to its protection from acts of interference by state legislation:
or by means of regulations made under the authority of the
State by some political subdivision thereof, including also
Congressional power over common carriers, elevator, gas and
water companies, for reasons stated to be peculiar to such carriers and companies, but that it does not include the general
power to interfere with or prohibit private contracts between
citizens, even though such contracts have interstate commerce
for their object, and result in a direct and substantial obstruction to or regulation of that commerce.
This argument is founded upon the assertion that the reason
for vesting in Congress the power to regulate commerce was
to insure uniformity of regulation against conflicting and discriminating state legislation; and the further assertion that
the Constitution guarantees liberty of private contract to the
citizen at least upon commercial subjects, and to that extent
the guaranty operates as a limitation on the power of Congress
to regulate commerce. Some remarks are quoted from the
opinions of Chief Justice Mlarshall, in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1,. and Brown v. -Maryland,12 Wheat. 419, and from
the opinions .of other justices of this court in the cases of The
State .- reigAt Tax, 15 Wall. 232, 275 ; Railroad Company v.
Richmond, 19 Wall. 584, 589; Jfrelton v. JifEisouri,91 U. S.
275, 280; Xobile County v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697, and
Kidd v. Pearson,128 U. S. 1, 21, all of which are to the effect
that the object of vesting in Congress the power to regulate
interstate commerce was to insure uniformity of regulation
against conflicting and discriminating state legislation. The
further remark is quoted from Railroad Company v. Richgnond, supra, that the power of Congress to regulate commerce was .never intended to be exercised so as to interfere
with private codtracts .not designed at the time they were
made to create. impediments to such commerce. It is added
that the proof herein shows that the contract in this case was
not so designed.
It is undoubtedly true that among the reasons, if not the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

strongest reason, for placing the power in Congress to regulate
interstate commerce, was that which is stated in the extracts
from the opinions of the court in the cases above cited.
The reasons which may have caused the framers of the
Constitution to repose the power to regulate interstate commerce in Congress do not, however, affect or limit the extent
of the power itself.
In Gibbons v. Ogden, (s2Tra,) the power was declared to be
complete in itself, and to acknowledge no limitations other
than are prescribed by the Constitution.
Under this grant of power to Congress, that body, in our
judgment, may enact such legislation as shall declare void and
prohibit the performance of any contract between individuals
or corporations where the natural and direct effect of such
a contract will be, when carried out, to directly, and not as a
mere incident to other and innocent purposes, regulate to any
substantial extent interstate commerce. (And when we speak
of interstate we also include in our meaning foreign commerce.) We do not assent to the correctness of the proposition that the constitutional guaranty of liberty to the
individual to enter into private contiacts limits the power
of Congress and prevents it from legislating upon the subject
of contracts of the class mentioned.
The power to regulate interstate commerce is, as stated by
Chief Justice Marshall, full and complete in Congress, and
there is no limitation in the grant of the power which excludes
private contracts of the nature in question from the jurisdiction of that body. Nor is any such limitation contained in
that other clause of the Constitution which provides that no
person shall be deprived of life, liberty or property without
due process of law. It has been held that the word "liberty,"
as used in the Constitution, was not to be confined to the
mere liberty of person, but included, among others, a right
to enter into certain classes of contracts for the -purpose of
enabling the citizen to carry on his business. .Allgeyer v.
Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578; United States v. Joint Traffic
Association, 171 U. S. 505, 512. But it has never been, and
in our opinion ought not to be, held that the word included

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL 00. v. UNITED STATES. 229
Opinion of the Court.

the right of an individual to enter into private contracts upon
all subjects, no matter what their nature and wholly irrespective (among other things) of the fact that they would, if
performed, result in the regulation of interstate commerce
and in the violation of an act of Congress upon that subject.
The provision in the Constitution does not, as we believe,
exclude Congress from legislating with regard to contracts
of the above nature while in the exercise of its constitutional
right to regulate commerce among the States. On the contrary, we think the provision regarding the liberty of the
citizen is, to some extent, limited by the commerce clause of
the Constitution, and that the power of Congress to regulate
interstate commerce comprises the right to enact a law prohibiting the citizen from entering into those private contracts
which directly and substantially, and not mer ely indirectly,
remotely, incidentally and collaterally, regulate to a greater
or less degree commerce among the States.
We cannot so enlarge the scope of the language of the
Constitution regarding the liberty of the citizen as to hold
that it includes or that it was intended to include a right to
make a contract which in fact restrained and regulated interstate commerce, notwithstanding Congress, proceeding under
the constitutional provision giving to it the power to regulate
that commerce, had prohibited such contracts.
While unfriendly or discriminating legislation of the several
States may have been the chief cause for granting to Congress
the sole power to regulate interstate commerce, yet we fail
to find in the language of the grant any such limitation of
that power as would exclude Congress from legislating on the
subject and prohibiting those private contracts which would
directly and substantially, and not as a mere incident, regulate
interstate commerce.
If certain kinds of private contracts do directly, as already
stated, limit or restrain, and hence regulate interstate commerce, why should not the power of Congress reach those
contracts just the same as if the legislation of some State had
enacted the provisions contained in them? The private contracts may in truth be as far reaching in their effect upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

interstate commerce as would the legislation of a single. State
of the same character.
In the .Debs case, 158 U. S. 564, it was said by Mr. Justice
Brewer, speaking for the court: "It is curious to note the
fact that in a large proportion of the cases in respect to interstate commerce brought to this court the question presented
was of the validity of state legislation in its bearing upon
interstate commerce, and. the uniform course of decision has
been to declare that it is not within the competency of a State
to legislate in such a manner as to obstruct interstate commerce. If a State, with its recognized power of sovereignty,
is impotent to obstruct interstate commerce, can it be that
any mere voluntary association of individuals within the
limits of that State has a power which the State itself does
not possess?"
What sound reason can be given why.Congress should have
the power to interfere in the case of the State, and yet have
none in the case of the individual? Commerce is the important subject of consideration, and anything which directly
obstructs and thus regulates that commerce which is carried:
on among the States, whether it is state legislation or private
contraets between individuals or corporations, should be subject to the power of Congress in the regulation of that commerce.
The power of Congress over this subject seems to us much
more important afid necessary than the liberty of the citizen
to enter into contracts of the nature above mentioned, free
from the control of Congress, because the'direct results of
such contracts might be the regulation of commerce among
the States, possibly quite. as effectually as if a State had
'passed a statute of like tenor as the contract.
The-liberty of contract in such case would be nothing more
thati the liberty of doing that which would result in the regulation, to some extent, of a subject which from its general and
great importance has been granted to Congress as the proper
representative of the nation at large. Regulation, to any substantial extent, of such a subject by any other power than
that of Congress, after Congress has itself acted thereon, even

ADDYST01t PIPE & STEEL CO. v. "UNITED STATES. 23i
Opinion of the Court.

though such regulation is effected by means of private contracts between individuals or corporations, is illegal, and we
are unaware of any reason why it is not as objectionable
when attempted by individuals as by the State itself. In
both cases it is an attempt to regulate a subject which, for
the purpose of regulation, has been, with some exceptions,
such as are stated in -Mobile County v. Zimball, 102 U. S.
691, 697; .organ v. Louisiana,118 U. S. 455, 465; Bowman
v. Chicago & -.
.Railway, 125 V. S. 465; Western Union
TelegrapA Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650, 655, exclusively graxited
to Congress; and it is essential to the proper execution of that
power that Cbngress should have jurisdiction as much in the
one case as in the other.
It is, indeed, urged that to include private contracts of this
description within the grant of this power to Congress is to
take from the States their own power over the subject, and
to interfere with the liberty of the individual in a manner
and to an extent never contemplated by the framers of the
Constitution, and not fairly justified by any laiiguage used in
that instrument. If Congress has not the power to legislate
upon the subject of contracts of the kind mentioned, because
the constitutional provision as to the liberty of the citizen
limits, to that extent, its power to regulate interstate commerce, then it would seem to follow that the several States
have that power, although such contracts relate to interstate
commerce, and, more or less, regulate it. If neither Congress
nor the state legislatures have such power, then we are
brought to the somewhat extraordinary position that there
is no authority, state or national, which .can legislate upon
the subject of or prohibit such contracts. This cannot be the
case.
If it should be held that Congress has no power and the
state legislatures have full and complete authority to thus
far regulate interstate commerce by means of their control
over private contracts between individuals or corporations,
then the legislation of the-different States might and probably
would differ in regard to the matter, according to what each
State might regard as its own particular interest. One State

OOTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

might condemn all kinds of contracts of the class described,
while another might permit the making of all of them, while
still another might permit some and prohibit others, and thus
great confusion would ensue, and it would be difficult in many
cases to know just what law was applicable to any particular
contract regarding and regulating interstate commerce. At
the same time contracts might be made between individuals
or corporations of such extent and magnitude as to seriously
affect commerce among the States. These consequences
would seemingly necessarily follow if it were decided that
the state legislatures had control over the subject to the
extent mentioned.
It is true, so far as we are informed, that no state 'legislature has heretofore authorized by- affirmative legislation the
making of contracts upon the matter of interstate commerce
in terms,
of the nature now under discussion. Nor has it,
condemned them. The reason why no state legislation upon
the subject has been enacted has probablr been because it
was supposed to be a subject over which state legislatures
had no jurisdiction. If it should be decided that they have,
then the course of legislation of the different States on this
subject would probably be as varied as we have already
indicated.
On the other hand, if it be true that in no event could a
state legislature ehact a law affirmatively authorizing such
contracts, (even if Congress had no jurisdiction over the subject,) because in so doing it would to a greater or less extent
itself thereby, though indirectly, regulate interstate commerce,
then the question whether such contracts were legal without.
.legislative sanction would depend upon the decisions of the
various state courts having jurisdiction in the cases, and in
-that event, as the same question might arise in different States,
there would be great probability of inconsistent and contradictory decisions among the courts of the different States,
and that, too, upon questions of contracts amounting to the
regulation of interstate commerce. It is true that under our
system of government there are numerous subjects over which
the States have exclusive jurisdiction, resulting in the enact-

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 233
Opinion of the Court.

ment of different laws upon the same subject in various States,
and also in varying and inconsistent judicial judgments in the
different States upon the same subject. That condition has
never been regarded as an end in itself desirable. It undoubtedly results in some confusion as to the law applicable to the
particular case, and"in many instances thereby increases the
cost and renders doubtful the result of the litigation arising
under such circumstances. They are results and the necessary
accompaniment of the division of sovereignty between the
States on the one hand and the Federal Government on the
other, and yet the enormous and inestimable benefits arising
from the existence of separate, independent and sovereign
States, have completely submerged the comparatively minor
evils of inconsistent judgments and different laws upon many
of the subjects over which the States have exclusive jurisdiction. But upon the matter of interstate and foreign commerce
and the proper regulation thereof, the subject being not alone
national but international in its character, the great importance of having but one source for the law which regulates
that commerce throughout the length and bread th of the
land cannot in our opinion be overestimated. Each State in
that event would have complete jurisdiction over the commerce which was wholly within its own borders, while the
jurisdiction of Congress, under the provisions of the Conititution, over interstate commerce would be paramount, and
would include therein jurisdiction over contracts of"the nature
we have been discussing.
The remark in Railroad Company v. Richmond, (sipra,)
that it was never intended that the power of Congress should
be exercised so as to interfere with private contracts not
designed at the time they were made to create impediments
to interstate commerce, when read in connection with the
facts stated in the report, is entirely sound. It therein
appears that a contract had been made between the parties,
as to the erection of an elevator and the business to be done
by it, which contract was valid when made. Subsequently
Cbngress passed acts relating to the construction of bridges
over rivers and streams and authorizing railroads to carry pas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

sengers on their way from one State to another. The railroad company becoming tired of its contract with the elevator
company, desired to take advantage of this legislation and
contended that under it, the contract which it had theretofore made with the elevator company became void as an
obstacle to or a regulation of commerce. The court held
that contracts which were valid when made continue valid
and capable of enforcement, so long, at least, as peace lasts
between the governments of the contracting parties, notwithstanding a change in the condition of business which originally led to their creating. It was then added that it never
was intended that the power of Congress should be exercised so
as to interfere with private contracts not designed at the time
they were made to create impediments to interstate commerce.
There is no intimation in this remark that Congress has no
power to legislate regarding those contracts which do directly
regulate and restrain interstate commerce. The inference is
quite the reverse, and it is plain that the case assumes if
private contracts when entered into do directly interfere with
and regulate interstate commerce, Congress had power to condemfi them. If the necessary, direct and immediate effect of
the contract be to violate an act of Congress and also to
restrain and regulate interstate commerce, it is manifestly
immaterial whether the design to so regulate was or was not
in existence when the contract was entered into. In such
case the design does not constitute the material thing. The
fact of a direct and substantial regulation is the important
part of the contract, and that regulation existing, it is unimportant that it was not designed.
Where the contract affects interstate commerce only incidentally and not directly, the fact that it was not designed or
intended to affect such, commerce is simply an additional
reason for holding the contract valid and not touched by the
act of.Congress. Otherwise the design prompting the execution of a contract pertaining to and directly affecting, and
more or less regulating, interstate commerce is of no importance. We conclude that the plain language of the grant to
Congress of power to regulate commerce among the several

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 236
Opinion of the Court.

States includes power to legislate upon the subject of those
contracts in respect to interstate or foreign commerce which
directly affect and regulate that commerce, and we can find
no reasonable ground for asserting that the constitutional
provision as to the liberty of the individual limits the extent
of that power as claimed by the appellants. We therefore
think the appellants have failed in their contention upon this
branch of subject.
We are thus brought to the question whether the contract
or combination proved in this case is one which is either a
direct restraint or a regulation of commerce among the several
States or with foreign .nations cQntrary to the act of Congress.
It is objected on the part of the appellants that even if it
affected interstate commerce the contract or combination was
only a reasonable restraint upon a ruinous competition among
themselves, and was formed only for the purpose of protecting
the parties thereto in securing prices for their product that
were fair and reasonable to themselves and the-public. It is
further objected that the agreement does not come within the
act because it is not one which amounts-to a regulation of
interstate commerce, as it has no direct bearing upon or relation to that commerce, but that on the contrary the case
herein involves the same principles which were under consideration in United States v. E. C.
ight Company,156 U. S. 1,
and, in accordance with that decision, the bill should be dismissed.
Referring to the first of these objections to the maintenance
of this proceeding, we are of opinion that the agreement or
combination was not one which simply secured for its members fair and reasonable prices for the article dealt in by
them. Even if the objection thus set up would, if well
founded in fact, constitute a defence, we agree With the
Circuit Court of Appeals in its statement of the special facts
upon this branch of the case and with its opinion thereon as
set forth by Circuit Judge Taft, as follows:
"Thedefendants being manufacturers and -vendors of castiron pipe entered into a combination to raise the prices for pipe
for all the States vest and south of New York, Pennsylvania

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and Virginia, constituting considerably more than three
quarters of the territory of the United States, and significantly called by the associates 'pay' territory. Their joint
annual output was 220,000 tons. The total capacity of all
the other cast-iron pipe manufacturers in the ' pay' territory
was 170,500 tons. Of this, 45,000 tons was the capacity of
mills in Texas, Colorado and Oregon, so far removed from
that part of the ' pay' territory where the demand was considerable that necessary freight rates excluded them from the
possibility of competing, and 12,000 tons was the possible
annual capacity of a mill at St. Louis, which was practically
under the same management as that of one of the defendants?
mills. Of the remainder of the mills in 'pay' territory and
outside of the combination, one was at Columbus, Ohio, two
in northern Ohio, and one in Michigan. Their aggregate
possible annual capacity was about one half the usual annual
output of the defendants' mills. They were, it will be observed, at the extreme northern end of the 'pay' territory,
while the defendants' mills at Cincinnati, Louisville, Chattanooga and South Pittsburg, and Anniston and Bessemer were
grouped much nearer to the centre of the cpay' territory.
The freight upon cat-iron pipe amounts to a considerable
percentage of the price at which manufacturers can deliver it
at any great distance from the place of manufacture. Within
the margin of the freight per ton which Eastern manufacturers would have to pay to deliver pipe in 'pay' territory,
the defendants, by controlling two thirds of the output in
'pay' territory, were practically able to fix prices. The competition of the Ohio and Michigan mills of course somewhat
affected their power in this respect in the northern part of the
'pay' territory, but the further soth the place of delivery
was to be, the more cormplete the monopoly over the trade
which the defendants were able to exercise, within the limits
already described. Much evidence is adduced upon affidavit
to prove that defendants had no power arbitrarily to fix
prices and that they were always obliged to meet competition.
To the extenit that they could not impose prices on the public
in excess of the cost price of pipe with freight from, the Atlan-

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 4'37
Opinion of the Court.

tic seaboard added, this is true, but within that limit they
could fix prices as they chose. The most cogent evidence
that they had this power is the fact everywhere apparent in
the record that they exercised it. The details of the way in
which it was maintained are somewhat obscured by the manner in which the pr6of was adduced in the court below upon
affidavits solely, and without the clarifying effect of crossexamination, but quite enough appears to leave no doubt of
the ultimate fact.
"The defendants were by their combination therefore able
to deprive the public-in a large territory of the advantages
otherwise accruing to them from the proximity of defendants'
pipe factories and, by keeping prices just low enough to prevent competition by Eastern manufacturers, to compel the
public to pay an increase over what the price would have
been if fixed by competition between defendants, nearly equal
to the advantage in freight rates enjoyed by defendants over
Eastern competitors. The defendants acquired this power by
voluntarily agreeing to sell only at prices fixed -by their committee and by allowing the highest bidder at the- secret ' auction pool ' to become the lowest bidder of them at the public
letting. Now, the restraint thus imposed on themselves was
only partial. It did not cover the United States. There was
not a complete monopoly. It was tempered by the fear of
competition and.it affected only a part of the price. But this
certainly does not take the contract of association out of the
annulling effect of the rule against monopolies. In United
Statmes v. E. C. Enight Company, 156 U. S. 1, 16, Chief Justice
Fuller, in speaking for the court, said: 'Again all the authorities agree that in order to vitiate a contract or combination, it
is not essential that its result should be a complete monopoly;
it is sufficient if it really tends to that end-and to deprive the
public of the advantages which flow from free competition."
"It has been earnestly pressed upon us that the prices at
whibh the cast-iron pipe was sold in 'pay' territory were
reasonable. A great many affidavits of purchasers of pipe in
'pay' territory, all drawn by the same hand or from the same
model, are produced, in which the affiants say that in their

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

opinion the prices at which pipe has been sold by defendants
have been reasonable. We do not think the issue an important one, because, as already stated, we do not think that at
common law there is any question of reasonableness open to
the courts with reference to such a contract. Its tendency
was certainly to give defendants the power to charge unreasonable prices, had they chosen to do so. But if it were important we should unhesitatingly find that the prices charged
in the instances which were in evidence were unreasonable.
The letters from the manager of the Chattanooga foundry
written to the other defendants and discussing the prices fixed
by the association, do not leave the slightest doubt upon this
point, and outweigh the perfunctory affidavits produced by
the defendants. The cost of producing pipe at Chattanooga,
together with a reasonable profit, did not exceed $15 a ton.
It could have been delivered at Atlanta at $17 to $18 a ton,
and yet the lowest price which that foundry was permitted by
the rules of the association to bid was $24.25. The same thing
was true all through ' pay' territory to a greater or less degree,
and especially at ' reserved' cities."
The facts thus set forth show conclusively that the effect of
the combination was 'to enhance prices beyond a sum which
was reasonable, and therefore the first objection above set
forth need not be further noticed.
We are also of opinion that the direct effect of the agreement or combination is to regulate interstate commerce, and
the case is therefore not covered by that of United States v. E.
C. Enight Company, supra. It was there held that although
the American Sugar Refining Company, by means of the combination referred to, had obtained a practical monopoly of
the business of manufacturing sugar, yet the act of Congress did not touch the case, because the combination only*
related to manufacture and not to commerce among the States
or with foreign nations. The plain distinction between manufacture and commerce was pointed out, and itwas observed
that a contract or combinatioi which directly related to manufacture only was not brought within the purview of the act,
although as an indirect and incidental result of such combina-

A'DDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UIEETED STATES. 239
Opinion of the Court.

tion commerce among the States might be thereafter somewhat affected.
MIr. Chief Justice Fuller, in delivering the
opinion of the court, spoke of the distinction between the two
subjects, and said:
"The argument is that the power to control the manufacture of refined sugar is a monopoly over a necessity of life,
to the enjoyment of which by a large part of the population
of the United States interstate commerce is indispensable,
and that, therefore, the G -neral Government, in the exercise of
the power to regulate commerce, may repress such 'monopoly
directly and set aside the instruments which have created it.
"Doubtless, the power to control the manufacture of a given
thing involves in a certain sense the control of its disposition,
but this is a secondary and not the primary sense; and although
the exercise of that power may result in bringing the operation
of commerce into play, it does not control it, and affects it
only incidentally and indirectly. Commerce succeeds to manufacture and is not a part of it.
"It will be perceived how far reaching the proposition is
that the power of dealing with a monopoly directly may
be exercised by the General Government whenever interstate
or international commerce may be ultimately affected. The
regulation of commerce applies to the subjects of commerce
and not to matters of internal police. Contracts to buy, sell
or exchange goods to be transported among the several States,
the transportation and its instrumentalities, and articles bought,
sold or exchanged for the purposes of such transit among the
States, or put in the way of transit, may be regulated, but this
is because they form part of interstate trade or commerce. The
fact that an article is manufactured for export to another State
does not of itself make it an article of interstate commerce, and
the itent of the manufacturer does not determine the time when
the article or product passes from the control of the State and
belongs to commerce.
**

-*

*

*X

"There was nothing in the proofs to indicate any intention
to put a restraint upon trade or commerce, and the fact, as we

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

have seen, that trade or commerce might be indirectly affected,
was not enough to entitle complainants to a decree."
The direct purpose of the combination in the Knight case
was the control of the manufacture of sugar. There was no
combination or agreement, in terms, regarding the future
disposition of the manufactured article; nothing looking to
a transaction in the nature of interstate commerce. The
probable intention on the part of the manufacturer of the
sugar to thereafter dispose of it by sending it to some market
in another State, was held to be immnaterial and not to .alter
the character of the combination. The various cases which
had been decided in this court relating to the subject of
interstate commerce, and to the difference between that
and the manufacture of commodities, and also the police
power of the States as affected by the commerce clause of
the Constitution, were adverted to, and(the case was decided
upon the principle that a combination simply to control manufacture was not a violation of the act of Congress, because such
a contract or combination did not directly control or affect
interstate commerce, but that contracts for the sale and transportation to other States of specific articles were proper
subjects for regulation because they did form part- of such
commerce.
We think the case now before us involves contracts of the
nature last above mentioned, not incidentally or collaterally,
but as a direct and immediate result of the combination
engaged in by the defendants.
While no particular contract regarding the furnishing of
pipe and the price for which it should be furnished was in the
contemplation of the parties to the combination at the time of
its formation, yet it was their intention) as it was the purpose
of the combination, to directly and by means of such combination increase the price for which all contracts for the delivery
of pipe within the territory above described' should be made,
and the latter result was to be achieved by abolishing all competition between the parties to the combination. The direct
and immediate result of the combination was therefore necessarily a restraint upon interstate commerce in respect of arti-

ADDYSTONI

PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 241
Opinion of the Court.

cles manufactured by any of the parties to it to be transported
beyond the State in which they were made. The defendants
by reason of this combination and agreement*could only send
their goods out of the State in which they were&manufactured
for sale and delivery in another State, upon the terms and pursuant to the provisions of such. combination. As pertinently
-asked by the court below, was not this a direct restraint upon
interstate commerce in those goods?
If dealers in any commodity agreed among themselves that
any particular territory bounded by state lines should be furnished with such commodity by certain members only of the
combinatioi, and the others would abstain from business in
that territory, would not such agreement be regarded as one
in restraint of interstate trade? If the price of the commodity
were thereby enhanced, (as it naturally would be,) the character of the agreement would be still more clearly one in
restraint of trade. Is there any substantial difference where,
by agreement among themselves, the parties choose one of
their number to make a bid for the supply of the pipe for
delivery in another State, and agree that all the other bids
shall be for a larger-sum, thus practically restricting all but
the member agreed upon from any attempt to supply the
demand for the pipe or to enter into competition for the business? Does not an agreement or combination of that kind
restrain interstate trade, and when Congress has acted by the
passage of a statute like the one under consideration, does not
such a contract clearly violate that statute?
As has frequently been said, interstate commerce consists'of.
intercourse and traffic between the citizens or inhabitants of
different States, and includes not only the transportation
of persons and property and the navigation of public waters for
that purpose, but also the purchase, sale and exchange of commodities. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
196-203; Zidd v. Pearson,128 U. S.1, 20. If,therefore, a
agreement or combination directly restrains not alone the
manufacture, but the purchase, sale or exchange of the manufactured ,commodity among the several States, it is brought
within the provisions of the statute. The power to regulate
'OL. CLXXV-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

such commerce, that is, the power to prescribe the rules by
which it shall be governed is vested in Congress, and when
Congress has enacted a statute such as the one in question, any
agreement or combination which directly operates, not alone
upon the manufacture, but upon the sale, transportation and
delivery of an article of interstate commerce, by preventing or
restricting its sale, etc., thereby regulates interstate commerce
to that extent and to the same extent trenches upon the power
of the national legislature and violates the statute. We think
it plain that this contract or combination effects that result.
The defendants allege, and it is true, that their business is not
like a factory manufacturing an article of a certain kind for
which there is at all times a demand, and which is manufactured without any regard to a particular sale or for a particular
customer. In this respect as in many others the business differs
radically from the sugar refiners. The business of defendants
is carried on by obtaining particular contracts for the sale,
transportation and delivery of iron pipe of a certain description, quality and strength, differing in different contracts as the
intended use may differ. These contracts are, generally speaking, obtained at a public letting, at which there are many competitors, and the contract bid for includes, in its terms, the sale
of the pipe and its delivery at the place desired, the cost of
transportation being included in the purchase price of the pipe.
The contract is one for the sale and delivery of a certain kind
of pipe, and it is not generally essential to its performance
that it should be manufactured for that particular cohtract,
although sometimes it may be.
If the successful bidder had on hand iron pipe of the kind
specified, or if he could procure it by purchase, he could in
most cases deliver such pipe in fulfilment of his contract iust
the same as if he manufactured the pipe subsequently to the
making of the contract and for the specific purpose of its performance. It is the sale and delivery, of a certain kind and
quality of pipe, and not the manufacture, which is the material portion of the contract, and a sale for delivery beyond the
State makes the transaction a part of interstate commerce.
Municipal corporations and gas, railroad and water companies

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v.. UNITED STATES. 243
Opinion of the Court.

are among the chief customers for the pipe, and when they
desire the article they give notice of the kind and quality, size,
strength and purpose for which the pipe is desired, and
announce that they will receive proposals for furnishing the
same at the place indicated by them. Into this contest (and
irrespective of the reserved cities) the defendants enter, not in
truth as competitors, but under an agreement or combination
among themselves which eliminates all competition between
them for the contract, and permits one of their number to make
his own bid and requires the others to bid over him. In certain sections of the country the defendants would have, by
reason of their situation, such an advantage over all other competitors that there w6uld practically be no chance for any other
than one of their number to obtain the contract, unless the price
bid was so exorbitant as to give others not so favorably situated an opportunity to snatch it from their hands. Under these
circumstances, the agreement or combination of the defendants,
entered into for that purpose and to directly obtain that desired
result, would inevitably and necessarily give to the defendant,
who was agreed upon among themselves to make the lowest
bid, the contract desired and at a higher price than otherwise
would have been obtained, and all the other parties to.the combination would, by virtue of its terms, be restricted from an
attempt to obtain the contract.
The combination thus had a direct, immediate and intended
relation to and effect upon the subsequent contract to sell and
deliver the pipe. It was to obtain that particular and specific
result that the combination was formed, and but for the restriction the resulting high prices for the pipe would not have been
obtained. It is useless for the defendants to say they did not
intend to regulate or affect interstate commerce. They intended
to make the very combination and agreement which they in
fact did make, and they must be held to have intended (if in
such case intention is of the least importance) the necessary
and direct result of their agreement.
The cases of Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578, and
Anderson v. United States, 1,71 U. S. 604, are not relevant.
In the Hopkins case it was held thai the business of the mem-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion, of the Court.

bers of the Kansas City Live Stock Exchange was not interstate commerce, and hence the act of Congress did not affect
them; while in the Anderson case it was held that whether
the members of the Traders' Live Stock Exchange were or
were not engaged in the business of interstate commerce, was
immaterial, as the agreement proved was not in restraint of
trade,-and did not regulate such commerce. It was said -that
when it is seen that the agreement entered into does not
directly relate to and act upon and embrace interstate commerce, and that it was executed for another and entirely
different purpose, and that it was calculated to attain it, the
agreement would be upheld, if its effect upon that commerce
were only indirect and incidental. The agreement involved
in that case was held to be of such a-character. The case we
have here is of an entirely different nature, and is not covered
or affected by the decisions cited.
It is also urged that as but one contract would be awarded
for the work proposed at any place, and therefore only one
person would secure it by virtue of being the lowest bidder,
the selection by defendants of one of their number to make
the lowest bid as among themselves could not operate as any
restraint of trade; that the combination or agreement operated only to make a selection of that one who should have
the contract by being the lowest bidder, and it did not in the
most remote degree itself limit the number or extent of contracts, and therefore could not operate to restrain interstate
trade. This takes no heed of the purpose and effect of the
combination to restrain the action of the parties to it so that
there shall be no competition among them to obtain the contract for themselves.
We have no doubt. that where the direct and immediate
effect of a contract or. oombination among particular dealers
in a commodity is to destroy competition between them and
others, so that the parties to the contract or combination may
obtain increased prices for themselves, such contract or combination amounts to a restraint of trade in the commodity,
even though contracts to buy such commodity at the enhanced
price are continually being made. Total suppression of the

ADDYSTON PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 245
Opinion of the Court.

trade in the commodity is not necessary in order to render
the combination one in restraint of trade. It is the effect of
the combination in limiting and restricting the right of each
of the members to transact business in the ordinary way, as
well as its effect upon the volume or extent of the dealing in
the commodity, that is regarded. All the facts and circumstances are, however, to be considpred in order to determine
the fundamental question -whether
the necessary effect of
the combination is to restrain interstate commerce.
If iron pipe cost one hundred dollars a ton instead of the
prices which the record shows were paid for it, no one, we
think, would contend that the trade in it would amount to as
much as if the lower prices prevailed. The higher price would
operate as a direct restraint upon te trade, and therefore any
contract or combination which enhanced the price might in
some degree restrain the trade in the article. It is not material that the combination did not prevent the letting of any
particular contract. Such was not its purpose. On the contrary, the more contracts to be let the better for the combination. It was formed not for the object of preventing the
letting of contracts, but to restrain the parties to it from competing for contracts, and thereby to enhance the prices to be
obtained for the pipe dealt in by those parties. And when by
reason of the combination a particular contract may have been
obtained for one of the parties thereto, but at a higher price
than would otherwise have been paid, the charge that the
combination was one in restraint of trade is not answered
by the statement that the particular contract was in truth
obtained and not prevented. The parties to such a combination might realize more profit by the higher prices they would
secure than they could earn by doing more work at a much
less price. The question is as to the effect of such combination upon the trade in the article, and if that effect be to
destroy competition and thus advance the price, the combination is one in restraint of trade.
Decisions regarding the validity of taxation by or under
state authority, involving sometimes the question of the point
of time that an article intended for transportation beyond the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

State ceases to be governed exclusively by the domestic law
and begins to be governed and protected by the national law
of commercial regulation, are not of very close application
here. The commodity may not have commenced its journey
and so may still be completely within the jurisdiction of the
State for purposes of state taxation, and yet at that same
time the commodity may have been sold for delivery in
another State. Any combination among dealers in that kind
of commodity, which in its direct and immediate effect, forecloses all competition and enhances the purchase price for
which such -commodity would otherwise be delivered at its
destination in another State, would in our opinion be one in
restraint of trade or commerce among the States, even though
the article to be transported and delivered in another State
were still taxable at its place of manufacture.
It is said that a particular business must be distinguished
from its mere subjects, and from the instruments by which
the business is carried on; that in mQst cases of a large manufacturing company it could only be carried on by shipping
products from one State to another, and that the business of
such an establishment would be related to interstate commerce only incidentally and indirectly. This proposition we
are not called upon to deny. It is not, however, relevant.
Where the contract is for the sale of the article and for itsdelivery in another State, the transaction is one of interstate
commerce, although the vendor may have also agreed to
manufacture it in order to fulfil his contract of sale. In such
case a combination of this character would be properly called
a combination in restraint of interstate commerce, and not
one relating only to manufacture.
It is almost needless to add that we do not hold that every
private enterprise which may be carried on chiefly or in part
by means of interstate shipments is therefore to be regarded
as so related to interstate commerce as to come within the
regulating power of Oongress. Such enterprises may be of
the same nature as the manufacturing of refined sugar in the
Knight case- that is, the parties may be engaged as manufacturers of a commodity which they thereafter intend at

ADDYSTO

PIPE & STEEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 217
Opinion of the Court.

some time to sell, and possibly to sell in another State; but
such sale we have already held is an incident to and not the
direct result of the manufacture, and so is not a regulation
of or an illegal interference with interstate commerce. That
principle is not affected by anything herein decided.
The views above expressed lead generally to an affirmance
of the judgment of the Court of Appeals. In one aspect,
however, that judgment is too broad in its terms- the init may be conjunction is too absolute in its directions -as
strued as applying equally to commerce wholly within a
State as well as to that which is interstate or international
only. This was probably an inadvertence merely. Although
the jurisdiction of Congress over commerce among the States
is full and complete, it is not questioned that it has none over
that which is wholly within a State, and therefore none over
combinations or agreements so far as they relate to a restraint
of such trade or commerce. It does not acquire any jurisdiction over that part of a combination or agreement which
relates to commerce wholly within a State, by reason of the
fact that the combination also covers and regulates commerce
which is interstate. The latter it can regulate, while the former is subject alone to the jurisdiction of the State. The
combination herein described covers both commerce which is
wholly within a State and also that which is interstate.
In regard to such of these defendants as might reside and
carry on business in the same State where the pipe provided
for in any particular contract was to. be delivered, the sale,
transportation and delivby of the pipe by them under that
contract would be a transaction wholly within the State, and
the statute would not be applicable to them in that case.
They might make any combination they chose with reference
to the proposed contract, although it should happen that some
non-resident of the State eventually obtained it.
The fact that the proposal called for the delivery of pipe
in the same State where some of -the defendants resided and
carried on their business would be sufficient, so far as the act
of Congress is concerned, to permit those defendants to combine as they might choose, in regard to the proposed contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

for the delivery of the pipe, and that right would not be
affected by the fact that the contract might be subsequently
awarded to some one outside the State as the lowest bidder.
In brief, their right to combine in regard to a proposal for
pipe deliverable in their own State could not be reached by
the Federal power derived from the commerce clause in the
Constitution.
To the extent that the present decree includes in its scope
the enjoining of defendants thus situated from combining in
regard to contracts for selling pipe in their own State, it is
modified, and limited to that portion of the combination or
agreement which is interstate in its character. As thus modified, the decree is
.4fir"med.

HAYS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLATT .
No. 19. Argued October 10, 1899. -Decided

December 4,1899.

Under the laws of Mexico prior to 1848, an alcalde had no power to make a
grant of public lands.
Where petitioner produced oral testimony tending to show a grant of lands
by the governor of New Mexico, and an order upon the alcalde to put
the grantee in possession; and also gave evidence tending to show that
these documents were afterwards lost or destroyed, and at the same time
produced a grant by the alcalde in which no reference whatever was
made to a prior grant.by the governor,'it was heLz that the grant of the
alcalde was inconsistent upon its face with the alleged grant by the governor, and with the other circumstances in the case, and that the claim
was properly rejected by the Court of Private Land Claims.
Possession to laud since the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, in 1848, will not
of itself give a valid title to land ; nor will it create the presumption of
a valid grant where a void grant appears to have been made; or in case the
surrounding circumstances are incompatible with the existence of a valid
grant.

Tars was a suit instituted by the appellant in the Court of
Private Land Claims for the confirmation of a grant of land
situate in the county of Shn Miguel, New Mexico, known as

