OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
AMACKER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 61. Argued October 24, 1899. - Decided January 8, 1900.
By the act of July 2, 1864, c. 217, a grant of public land was made to the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company to aid in the construction of its railroad and telegraph line. A small tract of this grant is the subject of
this action of ejectment. In October, 1868, one Scott made a preemption
declaratory statement regarding this tract, and settled upon it in 1869,
but abandoned it in the same year and never returned. In October, 1872,
he filed an amended statement excluding the land in controversy. On
February 21, 1872, the company filed its map of general route through
Montana. On the 22d of April, 1872, the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, by direction of the Secretary of the Interior transmitted to the
local land office in 'Montana a diagram showing the location of the road
in the district in which the subject of controversy was situated, and directed the withholding from sale or location, preEmption or homestead
entry, of the odd-numbered sections within forty miles of the general
route of the railroad. On May 3, 1872, McLean, a citizen of the United
States, duly qualified to enter land, made a homestead entry of the tract
in c.ontroversy in thi case. On May 6, 1872, the diagram and order sent
April 22 were received at the local laud office and filed there. In the
autumn of 1872 McLean placed a small building on the land in which he
spent his nights until the spring of 1873 when he removed and never after
resided there or made improvements. Proceedings were taken to cancel
his entry, and it was cancelled in September, 1879. In July, 1882, the plat
of definite location wad filed, and the land in controversy is within forty
miles of the general route, and within twenty miles of the line of definite
location. In August, 1882, McLean died, leaving a will devising this land
to his widow, which was duly probated. In March, 1883, McLean's widow
applied, as his widow under the act of June 15, 1880, c. 227, 21 Stat. 237,
to purchase the tract. Held:
(1) That whatever rights Scott might have acquired by his original
declaratory statement, were lost by his amended declaratory statement;
(2) That McLean had all the rights which attached to a valid entry, and
might have proceeded under the act of June 15, 1880, c. 227, 21
Stat. 237, to make the purchase thereby authorized;
(3) That his widow, having had this tract devised to her by her husband's will, duly probated, was entitled to purchase the tract as
the devisee of her husband, although her appllcation for it was
made as his widow.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. AMACKER.

565

Statement of the Case.
THIS was an action of ejectment commenced on May 8, 1891,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Montana by the railroad company, plaintiff in error, to recover
possession of the south one half of the northwest one quarter
of section 17, township 10 north, range 3 west of -the principal
meridian of Montana. A trial was had, which resulted in a
judgment for the plaintiff. 53 Fed. Rep. 48. This judgment
was reversed by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
15 U. S. App. 279, and the case remanded for a new trial.
The new trial was had before the Circuit Court upon' an agreed
statement of facts, and resulted in a judgment for the defendants, which judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
and thereupon the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
The important facts are these: On February 21, 1872, the
railroad company filed in the office of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office its map of general route through the then
Territory (now State) of Montana. On April 22, 1872, the
Commissioner, by direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
transmitted to the local land office in Montana a diagram
showing the portion of the line of general route extending
through that district, and directed the withholding from sale
or location, pregmption or homestead entry, the odd-numbered
sections within forty miles of such general route. This diagram and order were received and filed in the local office on
May 6, 1872. On May 3, 1872, three days before the order
was received at the local land office, William McLean, a citizen
of th6 United States and duly qualified to enter the land,
made a homestead entry on the tract in controversy. In that
fall he moved a small building onto the land and spent his
nights there until the spring of 1873, when he married, removed
from the premises, and. never thereafter resided or made any
improvements thereon. Proceedings were taken to cancel his
homestead entry, and upon September 11, 1879, it was cancelled. .On July 6, 1882, the railroad company filed a plat of
the definite location of that portion of its line adjacent to the
premises, and thereafter duly constructed its road on that line.
The land is within forty miles of theline of general route, and
also within twenty miles of the line of definite location and

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

construction. McLean died in August, 1882, leaving a will
by which he devised the tract to his widow. This will was
duly admitted to probate.
On April 21, 1876, Congress passed an act, c. 72, 19 Stat. 35,
the first section of which is " Sec. 1. That all preemption and homestead entries, or
entries in compliance with any law of the United States, of
the public lands, made in good faith, by actual settlers, upon
tracts of land of not more than one hundred and sixty acres
each, within the limits of any land grant, prior to the time
when notice of the withdrawal of the lands embraced in such
grant was received at the local land office, of the district in
which such lands are situated, or after their .restoration to
market by order of the General Land Office, and where the
preemption and homestead laws have been complied with,
and proper proofs thereof have been made by the parties holding such tracts or parcels, they shall be confirmed, and patents
for the same shall issue to the parties entitled thereto."
And on June 15, 1880, it passed another act, c. 227, 21 Stat.
237, the second section of which is " That persons who have heretofore under any of the homestead laws entered lands properly subject to such entry, or
persons to whom the right of those having so entered for
homesteads may have been attempted to be transferred by
bona~ide instrument in writing may entitle themselves to said
lands by paying the government price therefor, and in no
case less than one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, and
the amount heretofore paid the Government upon said lands
shall be taken as part payment of said price: Provided, this
shall in no wise interfere with the rights or claims of others
who may have subsequently entered such lands under the
homestead laws."
On March 15, 1883, the widow of William McLean. applied
under this last act for the purchase of the tract. Her application was made as widow and not by virtue of any right
given by the will of her husband. Her application was contested by the railroad company but sustained by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and afterwards by the

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILRQAD v. ANACKER.

567

Opinion of the Court.

Secretary of the Interior, and on his decision a patent was
duly issued to her. Whereupon this suit was brought to test
the title conveyed by such patent.

.Xr. James B. Eerr for plaintiff in error.

Xr. C.

r Bunn

was on his brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
M . JUsTIce BE wE,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

The contest in this case is between one claiming under a
homestead entry and a company claiming under a grant in
aid of a railroad. It was long ago said by this court that "the
policy of the Federal Government in favor of settlers upon
public lands has been liberal. It recognizes their superior
equity to become the purchasers of a limited extent of land,
comprehending their improvements, over that of -any other
person," Clements v. Wa7ner, 24: How. 3941, 397; and in a
later case, that "the law deals tenderly with one who, in good
faith, goes upon the public lands, with a view of making a
home thereon." .Ard v. Brandon, 156 U. S. 537, 543.
There is no real hardship in enforcing this rule, for if the
individual seeking to maintain his homestead entry fails by
reason of any defect he has no recourse on the Government
for the fees he has paid or for any compensation for the time
and labor he has expended, while on the other hand the general provision of railroad land grants is to the effect that
if the title to any tract within the place limits fails the company may reimburse itself by a selection within the indem.
nity limits. It is not therefore strange that the rulings of the
land department, as well as of the courts, have been uniformly
favorable to the individual contesting with a railroad company
the right to a particular tract of land.
Yet this would never justify an ignoring of the clear rights
of the company, for the purpose of Congress in the grant
must be recognized and made effective in every case to which
the grant applies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

On October 5, 1868, and prior to the filing of the map of
general route , there was, as appears from the agreed statement, a preemption declaratory statement made by William
M. Scott. In 1869 he settled upon the tract, built a house
and resided in it, but in the fall of that year abandoned the
land, moved to Helena, and never returned. On October 14,
1872, he filed an amended preemption declaratory statement
wholly excluding the land in controversy and substituting
other land. Whatever right Scott may have acquired by his
original declaratory statement was clearly lost by his amended
declaratory statement. Indeed, it .had undoubtedly lapsed
long before. Njorthern Pacific Railway v. Do Lacey, 174
U. S. 622.
We need, therefore, only concern ourselves with the action
of McLean. He did not make his homestead entry prior to
the filing of the map of general route, but did before notice
thereof was received in the local land office, and it is not disputed by counsel for the railroad compaiy that if he had
perfected that entry the act of 1876 would have operated to
confirm his title. But the contention is that the act only
applies when, as it reads, "the preemption and homestead
laws have been complied with, and proper proofs thereof have
been made by the parties holding such tracts or parcels;"
and it is urged that, as the agreed statement shows that
McLean abandoned the land in 1873, and thereafter never
complied with the requirements of the homestead law, he was
not in a condition to claim any right to the land, because
under the law in force at the time he made his original entry
the land was not subject to entry, Buttz v. Northern Pacific
Railroad,119 U. S. 55, 72, and he could claim nothing under
the act of 1876, because he did not comply with the homestead laws, or file proper proofs of any compliance therewith.
In other words, it said that the land was not subject to homestead entry when he entered it, and that his entry was not
made valid by the act of 1876; and therefore that the act of
1880 has no application to this case.
The writer of this opinion is much impressed with. the force
of these contentions, but a majority of the court hold that

NORTHERNW PACIFIC RAILROAD v. AMACKER.

569

Opinion of the Court.

they give too much force. to the letter of the statutes, and do
not carry out their real spirit. They are of .6pinion that the
effect of the act of 1876 was to validate all otherwise regular predmption and homestead entries made prior to the time
when the notice of the withdrawal was received at the local
land office, although such entries were made after the time
when the map of general route was filed in the office of the
Secretary of the Interior and the order of withdrawal made;
that the withdrawal authorized by the sixth section of the act
making the land' grant to the Northern Pacific Railway Company (13 Stat. 365, 369) did not vest in the company any title
to the lands within the withdrawal limits, but only operated
by legislative declaration and subsequent executive action to
withdraw those lands from homestead or preemption entries;
that the right of the railroad company to any tract only became vested when the line of definite location was filed, and
that up to that time Congress had full power to order a cancellation of the withdrawal or to make any disposition of
lands within those limits which it saw fit; and that this act
of 1876, rightfully construed and in accordance with the spirit
of Congressional dealings with individual homesteaders and
predmptors, is to be taken as a legislative enactment that no
entry was to be considered invalidated by reason of the filing
of the map of general route if it was made before notice of
the withdrawal was received at the local land office. If this
be the true construction of this act, then MvcLean had all the
rights which attached to a valid entry, and might have proceeded under the act of 1880 to make the purchase thereby
authorized.
Before, however, the act of 1880 was passed his entry had
been cancelled by reason of a failure to comply with the requirements of the homestead law in occupation, proofs and
payment of the final fees. Indeed, he could not have made
the proofs because he had abandoned the land. But the act
of 1880 was passed before the railroad was definitely located
adjacent to this land, and it was the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which is approved by a majority of this
court, that its effect was to except the tract from the grant

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

to the Northern Pacific. That grant was of land to which
"the United States have full title, not reserved, sold, granted
or otherwise appropriated, and free from prebmption or other
claims or rights at the time the line of said road is definitely
fixed." Counsel for the railroad company contend that this
right of McLean to purchase this tract wds no other or different than the right of any duly qualified citizen of the United
States to purchase any tract of public lands, and that as this
right had not been exercised at the time the line of definite
location was fixed, it could not be said that at that time any
right had attached. But we think it is not a true construction
of the land laws that a specified right given to a limited class
to take by purchase particular tracts is in any just sense the
equivalenit of the general right of all citizens to purchase public lands. It is not a strained but a reasonable construction to
hold that Congress by this act of 1880, "appropriated" these
particular tracts, thus covered by homestead entries, even of an
outlawed class, for the benefit of those homesteaders, and that
they were no longer to be counted among the public lands of
the United States subject to the grant to the railroad company.
One other question is presented by counsel for plaintiff in
error. The right given by the act of 1880 is to the entrymen
and persons to whom their rights have been transferred by
"bonca fide instruments in writing." It is contended that a
widow cannot avail herself of the benefit of that statute because she does not take by any bonafide instrument in writing.
It is true that the application to the land office upon which
the patent was issued was based upon her right as widow, and
it may be questionable whether a widow is within the scope
of that act; but the agreed statement of facts shows that
McLean by will devised this tract to her, and that the will
was duly probated; so that she held a right not simply as
widow, but as devisee, taking under a bonafide instrument in
writing, and it certainly cannot operate to defeat her right
under that instrument that the land department recognized
her right as widow.
For these reasons the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.

