OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

one in possession adversely and under a claim of title by a
grant from the Government.
The fact that a subsequent grant to other parties of other
lands was therein bounded by "the boundary of the Vallecito
grant," is no evidence of a change of the character of the possession already mentioned. The petitioner being in possession,
an' particular boundary thereof may very well have been
taken as a boundary for a grant to other parties subsequently
made of other lands, and the description of the land in the
other grant, that it was bounded by the Vallecito grant, is
inadequate as proof of the legal existence of that latter grant.
Upon the ground that there is no proof of any grant in this
case, we are of opinion that the judgment of the Court of
Private Land Claims was right, and it is, therefore,
Afirmed.

CHAVEZ v. UNITED STATES.
.AYPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND OLA.MS.
No. 14.

Argued October 1T, 18, 1899. -Decided

December 22,1899.

In Mexico, in 1831, a departmental assembly or territorial deputation bad
no power or authority to make a grant of lands; and the fact that the
governor presided at a meeting of the territorial deputation at the time
such a grant was made, makes no difference, as the power to make the
grant was exclusively in the governor, and tue territorial deputation had
no jurisdiction in the matter.

TH. statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. Frank TV. Clancy for appellait.
_Mr. -3atthewG. Reynolds for appellee. .r.
eraZ was on his brief.
Ym.

JUSTiCE PE KAm

Solicitor Gen-

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Private
Land Claims refusing to confiri the title of the appellant to

CHAVEZ v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

some 5000 acres of land in New Mexico, about one league
from the Manzano grant. The title is evidenced by a grant
by the territorial deputation of New Mexico., made in 1831,
and the first question in the case relates to the authority of
that body to make the grant.
It is also contended that if the territorial deputation did
not have the power to make the grant, and that power rested
with the governor of the department, his presence in the
territorial deputation as its ex officio president when the grant
was made, and, so far as the record shows, his not protesting
but acquiescing in its action, was equivalent to and the same
as a grant made by himself in his official character as governor.
It is further stated that by reason of the action of the governor in writing the letter dated December 22, 1831, and here-inafter set forth, that officer ratified and confirmed the grant,
and in effect made it his own.
It appears from the record that on February 28, 1831,
citizen Nerio Antonio Montoya petitioned the honorable corporation of Tome, and asked it that it would append to his petition its own report to the most excellent deputation, so that
that body should grant him the land described-in the petition.
The corporation of Tome, on the 19th of March, 1831, granted
the prayer of the petitioner, and adopted a resolution which
provided that his petition should "go before the most excellent territorial deputation, which, as the authority competent,
may accede to the donation of the land prayed for *bythe said
petitioner without injuring the pastures and watering places
for the pasiers-by." The resolution was accordingly forwarded
to the territorial deputation, and that body on November 12,
1831, took action as follows:
"(Extract from record of proceedings of -the territorihl deputation, session of November 12, 1831.)
"The foregoing record having been read and approved, a
petition of citizen Nerio Montoya, a resident of Valencia, in
which he asks for the donation, for agricultural purposes, of
a tract of vacant land in the Manzano within the limits of the
Ojo de en Medio as far as the rancheria, was taken up and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

report of the respectable corporation council of Tome, in which
it is set forth that there is no objection to the concession of
the said land, having been heard it was ordered that it be
granted.
"The session was adjourned.
"SANTIAGO

ABREU, P'esident.(Rubric.)

"JuAN RAFAEL ORTIZ.
"ANTo. JosE M RTINEZ.
"JOSE .MANL. SALAZAR.

(Rubric.)
(Rubric.)

TEODOSIO QUINTANA.
'KRA_ fO ABRET, Secretay .

(Rubric.)
(Rubric.)"

(Rubric.)

In accordance with this action, the following direction by
the deputation, signed by its secretary, was given the alcalde
of the proper jurisdiction:
" SANTA FE, November 12, 1831.
"The honorable the deputation of this territory, having
received the report of the constitutional council of Tome,
appended to this petition, has resolved in this day's session
to grant the land prayed for by the petitioner, charging the
alcalde of said jurisdiction to execute the document that will
secure the grantee in the grant hereby made to him.
"ABREU, Secretary."
The alcalde thereupon executed a document which, after
reciting that, "In obedience to the decree of the most excellent deputation of this territory made under date of November 12 of the current year on the margin of the -petition
which, under date of February 28, the citizen Nerio Antonio
Montoya, resident of this said jurisaiction, presented to this
honorable council, and on which petition is recorded the report
made by this council, in accordance with which report its excellency has deemed it proper to accede to the petition of IMontoya, granting him full and formal possession of the tract he
prayed for," etc., declared that "Montoya, whenever he may
choose or think best to do so, may notify me to proceed with
him to the locality to place him in possession of the property

CHAVEZ v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

granted him, with all the customary formality," etc. This
was dated December 7, 1831, and signed by the alcalde.
On December 12, in the same year, the same alcalde, "in
compliance with the provision.made by this most excellent
deputation of this territory and the notification given me
by the citizen lerio Antonio Montoya," proceeded with
Montoya to the tract of land granted him and placed him
in possession thereof, the act being signed by the alcalde.
There was also put. in evidence on the trial of the action
in the court below, on the question of ratification, the fol-"
lowing:
"Office of the Political Chief of N~ew Mexico.
"By your official communication of the 20th instant, I am
advised of your having executed the decree of the most excellent deputation granting to the citizen lNerio Antonio Montoya a tract of land.
"fBut in regard to the inquiry you make of me, as to how
much your fee should be, I inform you that I am ignorant in
the p'remises, and that you may, if you choose to do so, put the

question to the assessor (asesor), who is the officer to whom
it belongs, to advise the justices of first instance in such
cases.
"God and Liberty. Santa Fi, December 22, 1831.
"J'osE ArToxio CHAvEz.

"To Alderman Miguel Olona."
-Various mesne conveyances were put in evidence on the
trial, showing the transfer to the appellant of whatever title
Montoya had to the land described, and it was then admitted
that the appellant herein has succeeded to all the rights of
the original gikantee, if any, in this case. Evidence of possession under this grant was also given.
The court below held that the departmental assembly or
territorial deputation had no power or authority to make a
grant of lands at the time the grant in this case was attempted to be made, and that the fact that the governor
may have presided at the meeting at the time the action
was taken made no difference, as the power to make the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

grant was exclusively in the governor, and the territorial
deputation had no jurisdiction in the matter. The claim
was, therefore, rejected.
We think that in thus deciding, the court below was
right.
We refer to some of the cases which show the territorial
deputation did not have the power to make a grant, but only
the power to subsequently approve it.
In United States v. Vallejo, 1 Black, 541, it was held that
the Mexican law of 1824: and the regulations of 1828 altered
and repealed the Spanish system of disposing of public
lands, and that the law and the regulations from the time of
their passage were the only laws of Mexico on the subject of
granting public lands in the territories. It was also held that
the governor did not possess any power to make grants of
public lands independently of that conferred by the act of
1824: and the regulations of 1828. Mr. Justice Nelson, who
delivered the opinion of the court in that case, refers to the
various sections of -the law of 1824, and also to the regulations of November, 1828, for the purpose of showing that the
governors of the territories were authorized to grant vacant
lands within their respective territories with the object of cultivation or settlement, and that the grants made by them to
individuals or families were not to be definitively valid without the previous consent of the departmental assembly, and
when the grant petitioned for had been definitively made, a
patent, signed by the governor, was to be issued, which was to
serve as a title to the party. This case did not decide that
the territorial deputation could not make a valid grant, because the grant was made by the governor, but the various
extracts from the law and regulati6ns indicate very plainly
that the authority to initiate a grant of public lands existed in
the governor alone and not in the assembly.
In United Btates v. Vigil, 13 Wall. 449, it was held that
departmental assemblies (territorial deputations) had no power
to make a grant.
In his argument, at the bar, counsel for this appellant contended that the territorial deputation had lawful power and

CHAYEZ v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

authority to make the grant to Montoya, and in order to
maintain that proposition stated that it was necessary to discuss the effect of the decision of this court in United States v.
Vigil. l=e claimed that what was said as to the lack of
power in the territorial deputation to make a grant was not
necessary to the decision of the court in- that case, and that
such expressions as were therein used regarding the question
would not, therefore, constitute a precedent now binding on
this court.
In Vigil's case there was a petition to the departmental
assembly, through the governor of New Mexico, asking for a
grant of land which in fact amounted to over two million
acres, the grantees binding themselves, if the grant were
made, to construct two wells for the relief and aid of travellers,
and to establish two factories for the use of the State, and to
protect them from hostile invasion. The governor transmitted
the petition to the assembly, but declined to recommend that
favorable action should be taken upon it. The assembly, notwithstanding this refusal, granted the tract on January 10,
1846, for the purpose of constructing wells and cultivating the
land, etc., and the question was as to the validity of this grant.
The opinion was delivered by Mr. Justice Davis, who stated
that it had been repeatedly decided by'this court that the
only laws in force in the territories of Mexico, for the disposition of public lands, with the exception of those relating to
missions and towns, were the act of the Mexican congress of
1824 and the regulations of 1828. In the course of his opinion
he said:
"These regulations conferred on the governors of the territories, ' the political chiefs,' as they are called, the authority
to grant vacant lands, aiid did not delegate it to-the departmental assembly. It is true the grant was not complete until
the approval of the assembly, and in this sense the assembly
and governor acted concurrently, but the initiative must be
taken by the governor. He was required to act in the first
instance- to decide whether the petitioner was a fit person to
receive the grant, and whether the land itself could be granted
without prejudice to the public or individuals. In case the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

information was satisfactory on these points, he was authorized to make the grant, and at the proper time to lay it before
the assembly, who were required to give or withhold their
*consent. They were in this respect an advisory body to the
governor, and sustained the same relation to him that the Senate of the United States does to the President in the matter
of appointments and treaties."
A subsequent portion of the opinion dealt with the case upon
the assumption that the grant had been made by the governor, and even in that case it was said the grant would have
been invalid, because it violated the fundamental rule on which
the right of donation was placed by the law; that the essential
element of colonization was wanting, and that the number of
acres granted was enormously in excess of the maximum quantity grantable under the law. This in nowise affected the prior
ground upon which the opinion was based, that the d.epartmental
assembly had no power to make the grant. That was the
essential and material question directly involved in the case,
while the second ground mentioned was based upon an assumption that, even if the governor had made the grant, it would
still have been void for the reason stated. The court did not
base its decision that the departmental assembly had no power
to make the grant because of its enormous extent. It held
that the assembly had no power to make any grant, no matter
what its size. It is, as we think, a decision covering this case.
In Hayes v. United States, 170 U. S. 637, the grant was by
the territorial deputation of New Mexico, and it was stated
by Mr. Justice White, speaking for the court, that "it cannot
be in reason held that a title to land derived from a territory
which the territorial authorities did not own, over which they
had no power of disposition, was regularly derived from either
Spain or Mexico or a State of the Mexican nation."
No presumption that the territorial deputations had authority to make grants can arise from the fact that in some instances
those bodies assumed to make them. The case in this respect
bears no resemblance to United States v. Perkeman,7 Pet. 51,
96, or to United States V. Clarke, 8 Pet. 436, 44:7, 453. In those
cases it Was not denied that the governor had authority in

CHAVEZ v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

some circumstances to make grants, and it was therefore held
that a grant made by him was primafacie evidence that he
had not exceeded his power in making it, and that he who
denied it took upon himself the burden of showing that the
officer by making the grant had transcended the power reposed
in him. There is in the case before us no evidence that the
territorial deputation had the power in any event to make
grants other than the fact that in some instances it assumed
to make them.
The cases heretofore decided in this court, and some of
which have been above referred to, show that such fact is
inadequate io prove the existence of the authority.
It is, however, urged that the. record of the action of the
territorial deputation in regard to this grant shows that the
governor and ex qificio president of the deputation was present
when the deputation decided to make the grant as petitioned
for, and that his being so present and attesting the action of
the deputation was equivalent to the making of the grant himself as governor. We do not think so. He did not assume-to
make any grant whatever, and certainly none in his character
of governor. It does not even appear beyond doubt that he
was present when the deputation made the grant. His signature is perfectly consistent with a mere authentication of the
previous action of that body.
The petition of Montoya was addressed primarily to the
corporation of Tome, and he requested that corporation to
send his petition, approved by it, to the deputation to make
him a grant of the land described in his petition. Acting
underthat request, the corporation of Tome sent his petition
to the "most excellent territorial deputation," and asked that
body to accede to the donation of the land prayed for. In
conformity to the petition, the territorial deputation itself
made the grant. The fact that the governor, being ex oicio
a member of the deputation, signed as president of that body
the record of the act of the deputation, is not the equivalent
of a grant by him in his official character of governor, nor
does such act bear any resemblance to a grant by him.
No one on reading the record would get the idea that the gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ernor was himself making the grant or that he thereby
intended so to do. It does not even show that he was in
favor of the grant as made by the deputation. His signing
the record constituted nothing more than an authentication
of the act of the deputation. It purported to be nothing else.
He might have properly signed the record if in fact he had
voted against the grant, and had been opposed to the action
of the assembly. He might have signed the record as an
authentication, and yet have been absent at the time of the
action of the assembly.. In any event, it was his signature as
an ex officio member or presiding officer of the deputation,
attesting or perhaps assenting to its action, and it was not his
action as governor making a grant in that capacity. The signature by the secretary alone, to the instrument (above set
forth, dated November 12, 1831) which recites the previous
action of the deputation, and charges the alcalde of the jurisdiction to execute the document which will secure the grantee
in the grant, is simply a direction to. the alcalde, and has no
materiality upon this branch of the case other than as confirming the view that the grant was solely that of the deputation.
We cannot hold that when the power was given under the
laws of Mexico to the governor to make grants of lands, he in
any manner exercised that power or performed an act equivalent to its exercise, by presiding ex officio at a meeting of the
territorial deputation which made a grant of lands in conformity to a petition solely addressed to it, and by authenticating as president the action of the deputation in deciding
that the grant should be made.
The two positions, president of the deputation and governor,
are separate and distinct, and the action of a governor merely
as president of the deputation, and of. the nature above described, is not in any sense and does not purport to be his
separate and independent action as governor, making a grant
of lands pursuant to a petition addressed to him officially. As
governor he might refuse the grant upon a petition addressed
to himself, when as president of the deputation lie might sign
the record authenticating its action in regard to a petition

CHAVEZ v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

addressed solely to that body. And it -is obvious from the
wording of the-record that the president of the deputation was
not assuming to act as governor upon a petition addressed to
himself, but only as the president of the deputation. It might
have been that he acquiesced in the assumption by the deputation of the right to make the grant, but his act of signing
the record cannot be tortured into a grant or as the equivalent of a grant by himself.
It is further urged that there has been what amounts to a
grant by the governor by reason of his letter of December 22,
1831, signed by him and above set forth, thus, as is claimed,
ratifying the grant of the deputation and making it his own.
The only evidence that the person who signed the letter
was the governor at that time is the heading of the letter,
"Office of the Political Chief of New Mexico." It will be
also noted that the person signing it is not the same one who
signed the record of November 12, 1831, as president of the
deputation. But assuming that Chavez was governor in
December, 1831, when he signed the letter, he therein simply
acknowledged the receipt of the official communication of
the alcalde, in which that officer reports that he had executed
the decree "of the most excellent deputation, granting to the
citizen Nerio Antonio Montoya a tract of land." In reply to
the question as to how much the alcalde's fee should be, he
answered, that he was ignorant of the premises, and advised
the alcalde to put the question to the assessor, the officer to
whom it belonged to advise the justices in the first instances
in such cases.
Now what does the governor ratify by this letter ? Nothing.
The contention in favor of the grant, based upon the letter,
is, that assuming the governor had power to make the grant,
it was his .duty when he learned from the report of the alcalde
that one had been made by the deputation, and that possession had been delivered under it, to protest against and to
deny the power of the deputation to make such-grant, and
unless he did so, his silence was evidence of the fact that he
not only approved the act of the deputation in making the
grant, but that he 'approved it as his own, and that such
VOL.

Cxxv-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

approval was the same as if the governor had himself made
the grant, and in substance and effect it was his grant.
This contention we think is not founded upon any legal
principle, and is in itself unreasonable. The -writer of the
letter is not the same person who signed the record of the
proceedings of the deputation. The report of the alcalde
gave him the information which, it is true, he may have had
before, that the deputation had assumed the power to grant
the land. His protest as to the legality of such action would
not have altered the fact that it had occurred, while on the
other hand his silence might simply be construed as evidence of his unreadiness at that time to dispute, or possibly
of his belief in the validity of the action of the deputation.
Or his silence might have been simply the result of his
approval of the act of the alcalde in obeying the commands
of the deputation, while he thought it was not the proper
occasion upon which to contest or deny the validity of the
grant which the deputation had actually made. Many reasons for his silence might be suggested, but the claim that it
equalled in law a positive grant by the governor is, as we
think, untenable.
While such silence is entirely consistent with other views
that might have been held by the governor, it certainly cannot properly be ascribed, as a legal inference from the facts
stated, to his desire to make the grant himself, nor could it be
said that his desire (if he had it) was the legal equivalent of
an actual grant.
His knowledge that another body had assumed to make a
grant is not equivalent to the .making of the grant himself,
and he was the person who alone had power to make it.
There is nothing in the letter which aids the plaintiff herein.
Finally, it distinctly appears that the possession of the parties is insufficient in length of time to prove a valid title.
In United States v. Chaves, 159 U. S. 452, the possession
wag under the claim of a grant made by the governor of New
Mexico to the alleged grantees. The grant had been lost, but
it had been seen and read by witnesses, and its existence had
been proved by evidenoe sufficient, as was stated in the ojpin-

CHAVEZ v. UNITED STATES.

563

Opinion of the Court.

ion, (page 460,) to warrant "the finding of the court below
that the complainant's title was derived from the Republic of
Mexico, and was complete and perfect at the date when the
United States acquired sovereignty in the territory of New
Mexico, within which the land was situated." We do not
question the correctness of the remarks made by Mr. Justice
Shiras in regard to evidence of possession and the presumptions which may under certain circumstances be drawn as to
the existence of a grant.
We do not deny the right or the duty of a court to presume
its existence in a proper case, in order to quiet a title and to
give to long continued possession the quality of a rightful possession under a legal title. We recognized and enforced such
rule in the case of United States v. Chaves, decided at this term,
in which the question is involved. We simply say in this case
that the possession was not of a duration long enough to justify any such inference.
There is no proof of any valid grant, but on the contrary
the evidence offered by the plaintiff himself and upon which
he bases the title that he asks the court to confirm, shows the
existence of a grant from a body which had no legal power to
make it, and which, therefore, conveyed no title whatever to
its grantee, and the evidence is, as given by the plaintiff himself, that it was tinder this grant alone that possession of the
lands .wastaken. We cannot presume (within the time involved
in this case) that any other and valid grant was ever made.
The possession of the plaintiff and of his grantors up to the
time of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, in 1848, had not been
long enough to presume a grant. CreTin v. United States,
168 U. S. 208 ; ffayes v. United States, 170 U. S. 637, 649, 653 ;
Hays v. The United States, ante, 248. The possession subsequently existing, we cannot notice. Same authorities.
We think the judgment of the court below should be

Afflmed.

