LA ABRA SILVER ]IIXhNG 00. v. UNXITED STATES.. 423
Syllabus.

vail, and married women are still under the disabilities of the
act of 1869, though that act and sections 727, 729 and 730
which reproduced it are expressly repealed. The more reasonable construction is that Congress understood section 728
to give to a married woman the power to devise and bequeath
her property without limitation, and therefore allowed it to
stand.
Our conclusion is that the property in question passed under
the will of Mrs. Elkin. The view we have taken of this subject renders it unnecessary to consider the other questions in
the case.
TheJudgment of the Court of Appeals must be reversed, and
the case remanded to that court with instructionsto -reverse

the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and to remand the case to that court with direc-

tion to grant a new trial.

LA ABRA SILVER MINING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAfS.
No. 29. Argued February 20, 21, 23, 1899.-Decided December 11,.1899.
The Commissioners appointed under the treaty between the United States
and Mexico concluded July 4, 1868, and proclaimed February 1, 1869,
(15 Stat. 679), having differed in opinion as to the allowance of the
claim of the La QAbra Silver Mining Company, a New York corporation,
against Mexico, the Umpire decidedofor that company and allowed its
claim, amounting, principal and interest, to the sum of $683,041.32.
Mexico met some of the instalments of the award and then laid b6fore
the United States certain newly discovered evidence which, it contended,
showed that the efitire claim of the La Abra Company was fictitious and
fraudulent. The Secretary of State thereafter withheld the remaining
instalments paid by Mexico, and upon examining the new evidence
reported to the President that in his judgment the honor of the United
States was concerned to inquire whether in submitting the La Abra
claim to the Commission its confidence had not been seriously abused,
and recommended that Congress exert its plenary authority in respect

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.
of the disposition of the balance of the funds received from Mexico
and remaining in the hands of the United States. Finally, Congress
passed the act of December 28, 1892, (27 Stat. 409, c. 14,) by which the
Attorney General was directed to bring suit in the name of the United
States in the Court of Claims against the La Abra Company and all
persons asserting any interest in the award of the Commission to determine whether that award was obtained, as to the whole sum included
therein or as to any part thereof, by fraud effectuated by means of false
swearing or other false and fraudulent practices on the part of the company, or its agents, attorneys or assigns, and if so determined, to bar and
foreclose all claim in law or equity on the part of the company, its legal
representatives or assigns to the money or any such part thereof received
from the Republic of Mexico for or on account of the award. By that
act full jurisdiction was conferred on the Court of Claims, with right of
appeal to this court, to determine such suit, to make all proper interlocutory and final decrees therein, and to enforce the same by injunction or
other final process. The act further authorized the return to Mexico of
any moneys paid by it on the award and remaining in the custody of the
United States, if the issue of fraud was determined adversely to the company. If the decision was favorable to the company, it. was made the
duty of the Secretary of State to proceed with the distribution of the
funds in his hands. The act of 1892 was presented to the President on
December 20. Two days thereafter Congress took a recess until January 4, 1893. The President signed the bill on December 28, 1892. Held:
(1) That the act of 1892 was not invalid by reason of its having been
signed during a recess of Congress. Whether the President can
sign a bill after the final adjournment of Congress for the session
was not decided;
(2) The suit brought by the Attorney General involved rights capable
of judicial determination and was a "case" within the meaning of
the clause of the Constitution extending the judicial power of the
United States to all cases in law and equity arising under that
instrument, the laws of the United States and the treaties made
by it or under its authority. The act did not in any wise trench
upon the constitutional functions of the TPresident. Nor was it
simply ancillary or advisory to him. Whatever decree was rendered by -the Court of Claims was, unless reversed, binding and
conclusive upon the United States and the defendants;
(3) The act was not liable to the objection that it was inconsistent with
the principles underlying international arbitration. On the contrary, such legislation is an assurance in the most solemn and
binding form that the Government of this country will exert all
the power it possesses to enforce good faith upon the part of citizens who, asserting that they have been wronged by the authorities
of another country, seek the interVention of their Government
to obtain redress;
(4) This court was entitled to look at all the evidence in the cause on

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 425
Statement of the Case.
the issue as to fraud, because the act did not contemplate a
special finding by the Court of Claims of the ultimate facts established by the evidence;
(5) The question stated in the act of 1892- whether the award in question "was obtained as to the whole sum included therein, or as to
any part thereof, by fraud effectuated by means of false swearing
or other false And fraudulent practices on the part of the said La
Abra Silver Mining Company, or its agents, attorneys or assigns"
-is
answered in the affirmative as t'o the whole sum included in
the award.

THE questions involved in this case arose from a claim made
by the La Abra Silver Mining Company, a iNew York corporation, for damages alleged to .have been sustained in consequence of certain acts and omissions of duty upon the part of
official representatives of the Republic of Mexico.
The claim was originally the subject of investigation by a
Commission organized pursuant to a Convention between'the
United States of America and the Republic of Mexico concluded July 4, 1868, and proclaimed February 1, 1869. 15
Stat.- 679.
An award was made by the Commission in relation to thisclaim, but it has been executed only in part -its full execution having been suspended by legislation in conformity with
which the present suit was instituted to ascertain whether the
award bad been obtained by fraud effectuated by means of
false swearing or other false and fraudulent practices on the
part of the La Abra Company, its agents, attorneys or assigns.
Act of December 28, 1892, c, 14, 27 Stat. 409.
It will cbnduce .to a clear understanding of the questions to
be determined if we state fully the circumstances that led to
the organization of the Commission, and show how it came
about that a court established by this Government took-.cognizance of a moneyed demand made by an.American corporation against a foreign government.
By the above Convention of July 4, 1868, it was provided
that all claims on the part of corporations, companies or
private individuals, citizens of the United States or of the
Republic of Mexico, arising from injuries to their persons or
property committed by the authorities of the respective Gov-

OCTOBER TERAt. 1899.
Statement of the Case.

ernments and presented to either Government for its interposition with the other since the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
of February 2, 18418, and which remained unsettled or did not
.arise out of any transaction prior to that date, as well as any
other claims presented within the time prescribed in the Convention, should be referred to two Commissioners -one to be
appointed by the President of the United States by and with
the advice and consent of the Senate and the other by the
President of the Mexican Republic.
The Commissioners were conjointly to investigate and decide the claims presented to their notice in such order and
manner as they thought proper, but "upon such evidence or
information only" as should "be furnished by or on behalf
of their respective Governments." Where they failed to agree
in opinion upon any individual claim, they were to call to their
assistance an Umpire, who was to decide upon it finally and
without appeal. It was competent for each Government to
name one person to attend the Commissioners as its agent,
to present and support claims on its behalf and to represent
it generally in all matters connected with the investigation.
When every case presented had been decided by the Commissioners or the Umire, the total amount awarded in favor
of the citizens of one Government was to be deducted from
that awarded to the citizens of the other Government, and the
balance to the amount of three hundred thousand dollars was
to be paid to the Government in favor of whose citizens the
greater sum had been awarded, without interest or any other
deduction than that specified in the Convention. The residue
was to be paid in annual instalments not to exceed three hundred thousand dollars in any one year until the whole amount
had been paid.
The contracting parties agreed to consider the result of the
proceedings of the Commission as a full, perfect and final settlement of every claim upon either Government arising out of
any transaction of a date prior to the ratification of the Convention and to give full effect to the decision of the Commission or the Umpire without objection, evasion or delay; and
they further engaged that every such claim whether or not

LA. ABRA SILVER MLNING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 427
Statement of the Case.

presented to the notice of, made, preferred or laid before the
Commission should from and after the conclusion of its proceedings be considered and treated as finally settled, barred
and thereafter inadmissible.
The Commission was organized in the city of Washington
and held its first mbeting on the 31st day of July, 1869, Mr.
William H. Wadsworth and Sefior Don Miguel Maria de
Zamacona being the Commissioners respectively, and Mr. J.
ilubley Ashtonand Mr. Caleb Cushing the agents respectively,
on behalf of the United States and Mexico. Dr. Francis Lieber
the first Umpire having died, he was succeeded by Sir Edward
Thornton, who at that time was the British Minister accredited to the Government of the United States at Washington.
On the 23d day of February, 1870, Secretary Fish issued a
circular referring to the Convention of 1868 and stating that
the Department of State deemed it advisable to refer to the
Joint Commission all claims of corporations and citizens of
this country without special examinations of their merits.
He took care to say that the Government thereby expressed no
opinion either as to the merits of the claims presented or as
to the principles of law to be invoked in their support. The
responsibility of deciding questions of fact and law, he observed,
rested with the Commissioners.
On the 17th day of March, 1870, the La Abra Company gave
written notice to the Secretary of State that it claimed from
Mexico $1,930,000 "for damages and losses suffered by it in
consequence of the violence and outrages committed by the
authorities of Mexico against the rights of said compiny in
1867 and 1868." It asked for the interposition of the Government of the United States with Mexico for the payment of
that demand and requested that its claim and proofs thereafter
to be produced be referred to the Commission for settlement.
This notice was transmitted by the Secretary to the Commission.
Subsequently, June 14, 1870, the Company filed with the
Commission a memorial of its claim stating the amount thereof
to be $3,000,030. Before the case was finally heard the claim
was increased to $3,962,000.

428

OPTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The period within which the Commission was to conclude
its labors was fromji time to time extended by the two Governments. Of the claims presented by the United States there
was allowed the sum of $4,125,622.30, while of the claims presented by Mexico the sum of $150,498.41 was allowed.
In respect of the claim of the La Abra Company the Commissioners differed in opinion and the case went to the Umpire
for consideration.
The award of the Umpire, which was made December 27,
1875, embraced the following items as representing the damages sustained by the La Abra Company and to be paid by
the Republic-of Mexico: (1) On account of subscriptions
and sales of stock, $235,000; (2) Money lent and advanced,
$64,291.06; (3) Rent, expenses, salaries, law expenses, $42,500;
(4) Amount derived from reduced ores, $17,000; (5) Ore extracted from the mines and deposited at the mills, $100,000;
in all, $458,791.06. On $358,791.06, the aggregate of the first
four items, the Umpire alloWed interest from March 20, 1868,
at six per cent, and upon $100,000, the fifth item, interest was
allowed from March 20,. 1869. The total amount of principal
and interest allowed was $683,041.32.
An application was made to the Umpire by the Government
of Mexico for a rehearing of the case, but a rehearing was
denied.
Subsequently, the Mexican Government without at all disputing its obligation under the Convention of 1868 to comply
with the award placed in the possession of the Secretary of
State of the United States certain books, papers and documents which it alleged had been then recently discovered
and would show that the claim of the La Abra Company
was not only fictitious and fraudulent but had been supported by false and perjured testimony. At that time a
large part of" the sum awarded to the Company had been
paid by Mexico and was in the hands of the Secretary of
State. The 'distribution of the amount received had been
delayed by the Secretary acting under the orders of the President to await legislation deemed necessary in order to make
good to the fund the amount with which it was chargeable and

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 429
Statement of the Case.

also because as stated by the Secretary it was desirable that the
form and manner of the reservation from the instalment in
hand of the expenses of the Government should first be settled.
These difficulties were met by the passage of the act of
June 18, 1878, c. 262, 20 Stat. 144.
By the first section of that act the Secretary of State was
authorized and required to receive all moneys paid by the
Ilexican Republic under and in pursuance of the Conventions
of July 4, 1868, and April 29, 1876, and whenever and as often
as any instalments should be paid by the Mexican Republic,
to distribute the moneys received in ratable proportions among
the corporations, companies or private individuals respectively
in whose favor awards were made, or to their legal representatives or assigns except as in that act otherwise limited or provided, according to the proportion which the respective awards
should 1bear "to the whole amount of such moneys then held
by him, and to pay the same, without other charge or deduction than is hereinafter provided, to the parties respectively
entitled thereto."
By the second section it was provided that- ' out of any
moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated a sufficient sum is hereby appropriated to enable the Secretary of
the Treasury to pay to the Secretary of State of the United
States, in gold or its equivalent, the equivalent of fifty thousand five hundred and twenty-eight dollars and fifty-seven
cents in Mexican gold dollars and ten thousand five hundred
and fifty-nine dollars and sixty-seven cents in American gold
coin, and eighty-nine thousand four hundred and ten dollars
and seventeen cents in United States currency, said sums-being
the aggregate in said currencies respectively of the awards
mad6 under the said Convention. of July 4, 1868, in favor of
citizens of the Mexican Republic against the United Stites,
and having been .deducted from the amount awarded in favor
of the citizens of the United States, and payable by Mexico,
in accordance with article four of the said treaty; and that
said sums, when paid to the Secretary of State, as aforesaid,
shall be regarded as part of the awards made under the said
treaty, to be paid or distributed as herein provided."

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

The third section made provision for meeting out of the
moneys received by the Secretary the expenses of the Commission including contingent expenses paid by the United
States as ascertained and determined in pursuance of the
provisions of the treaty.
The fourth section provided that in the payment of money
in virtue of the act to any corporation, company or private
individual, the Secretary of State should first deduct and retain
or make reservation of such sums, if any, as might be due to
the United States from any corporation, company or private
individual in whose favor awards were -made under the Convention.
The fifth section of the act was in these words: "And
whereas the Government of Mexico has called the attention
of the Government of the United States to the claims hereinafter named with a view to a rehearing, therefore be it
enacted, that the President of the United States be, and he
is hereby, requested to investigate any charges of fraud presented by the Mexican Government as to the cases hereinafter named, and if he shall be of the opinion that the honor
of the United States, the principles of public law, or considerations of justice and equity require that the awards in the cases
of Benjamin Weil and La Abra Silver Mining Company, or
either of them, should be opened and the cases retried, it shall
be lawful for him to withhold payment of said awards, or either
of them, until such case or cases shall be retried and decided
in such manner as the Governments of the United States and
Mexico may agree, or until Congress shall otherwise direct.
And in case of such retrial and decision, any moneys paid or
to be paid by the Republic of Mexico in respect of said awards
respectively shall be held to abide the event, and shall be disposed of accordingly; and the said present awards shall be set
aside, modified or affirmed, as may be determined on such
retrial: Provided,That nothing herein shall be construed as
an expression of any opinion of Congress in respect to the
character of said claims, or either of them." 20 Stat. 144,
c. 62.
Pursuant to the direction of President Hayes the investi-

LA. ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATE:.. 431
Statement of the Case.

gation required by the fifth section of the act of June 28, 1878,
was made by the Secretary of State.
Having reviewed all the proceedings of the Commission,
including the testimony originally submitted to it, the supplemental evidence furnished in support of the allegations of
fraud as to the Weil and La Abra claims, and the action theretofore taken by the Department of State, Secretary Evarts
referred to the cbntention that in deciding against opening
those awards diplomatically and reexamining them by a new
international commission, the whole discretion vested in the
Executive as a part of the treaty-making power and under
the special provisions of the act of Congress was exhausted,
and that the payments in the cases referred to should be no
longer suspended. He said that a solicitous attention to the
rights of the claimants and the duty of the Executive in the
premises had confirmed him in the opinion that Congress
should determine whether "the honor of the United States"
required any further investigation in these cases or either of
them, and provide the efficient means of such investigation
if thought necessary.
After stating the considerations which led him to that
conclusion, the Secretary proceeded: "While these considerations led to the conclusion that these cases ought not to be
made the subject of a new international commission, I was
yet of opinion that 'the honor of the United States' was
concerned to inquire whether in these cases, submitted by
this Government to the Commission, its confidence had been
seriously abused, and the Government of Mexico, acting in
good faith in accepting a friendly arbitration, had been subjected to heavy pecuniary imposition by fraud and perjury
in the maintenance of these claims, or either of them, before
the Commission. In furtherance, however, of this opinion,
it seemed to me apparent that the Executive discretion under
the act of Congress could extend no further than to withhold
further payments on the awards until Congress should, by its
plenary authority, decide whether such an investigation should
be made, and should provide an adequate procedure-for its
conduct, and prescribe the consequences which should follow

OCTOBER TERM,. 1899.
Statement of the Case.

from its results. Unless Congress should now make this disposition of the matter, and furnish thereby definite instructions to the Department to .reserve further payments upon
these awards till the conclusion of such investigation, and
to take such further order with the same thereafter as Congress might direct, it would appear to be the duty of the
Executive to accept these awards as no longer open to reconsideration, and proceed in the payment of the same pro rata
with all other awards under the Convention." Senate Ex.
Doc. No. 150, 49th Cong. 2d Sess.
The suggestions of the Secretary having been approved by
the President, the first, second and third instalments of the
award received from Mexico on account of the claim of the
La Abra. Company, amounting to $138,565.52, were paid to
the representatives of that Company. -Payments were subsequently made out of moneys received from Mexico, amounting
to $103,117.54, leaving in the possession of the United States
on account of the award $403,030.08.
After Mr. Arthur became President further distribution of
the money received was suspended because of the negotiation
of a treaty between the United States and Mexico for a
re~xamination of the Wel and La Abra cases. This treaty
was signed on the 13th day of July, 1882, and was submitted
to the Senate for its approval, but after some delay it was
rejected by that body.
While that treaty was before the Senate, Key, as assignee
of part of the Weil claim and the La Abra Company filed
separate petitions in the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia for a mandamus upon the Secretary of State compelling him to pay to the petitioners their distributive shares
of the sums paid by Mexico in accordance with the terms of
the Convention of July 4, 1868. In Key's case the writ asked
ror was awarded, while in the La Abra case the petition was
dismissed. The cases having been brought to this court, the
judgment in the Key case was reversed with direction tQ dismiss the petition and the judgment in the La Abra case was
affirmed. Freling&ysen v. Key, 110 U. S. 63.
Chief Justice Waite, delivering the judgment of this court,

IA ABRA. SILVER MINTING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 433
Statement of the Case.

said: " T o nation treats with a citizen of another nation except
through his government. The treaty, when made, represents a
compact between the governments, and each government holds
the other responsible for everything done by their respective
citizens under it. The citizens of the United States having
claims against Mexico were not parties to this convention.
They induced the United States to assume the responsibility
of seeking redress for injuries they claimed to have sustained
by the conduct of Mexico, and as a means of obtaining such
redress the convention was entered into, by which not only
claims of citizens of the United States against Mexico were
to be adjusted and paid, but those of citizens of Mexico against
the United States as well. By the terms of the compact the
individual claimants could not themselves submit their claims
and proofs to the Commission to be passed upon. Only such
claims as were presented to the Governments respectively could
be 'referred' to the Commission, and the Commissioners were
not allowed to investigate or decide on any evidence or information except such as was furnished by or on behalf of the
Governments. After all the decisions were made and the'
business of the Commission concluded, the total amount
awarded to the citizens of one country was to be deducted
from the amount awarded to the citizens of the other, and
the balance only paid in money by the government in
favor of whose citizens the smaller amount was awarded,
and this payment was to be made not to the citizens, but to
their government. Thus, while the 6laims of the individual
citizens were to be considered by the Commission in determining amounts, the whole purpose of the Convention was to
ascertain how much was due from one government to the
other on account of the demands of their respective citizens.
As between the United States and Mexico, the awards are
final and conclusive until set aside by agreement between the
two governments or otherwise. Mexico cannot, under the
terms of the treaty, refuse to make the payments at the times
agreed on if required by the United States. This she does not
now seek to do. Her payments have all been made promptly
as they fell due, as far as these records show.
VOL. CLXXV-28

OCTOBER- TERM, 1899.
qtatement of the Case.

"As to the right of the United States to treat with Mexico
for a retrial, we entertain no doubt. Each Government, when
it entered into the compact under which the awards were made,
relied on the honor and good faith of the other for protection
as far as possible against frauds and impositions by the individual claimants. It was for this reason that all claims were
excluded from the consideration of the Commission except
such as should be referred by the several Governments, and
no evidence in support of or against a claim was to be submitted except through or by the Governments. The presentation by a citizen of a fraudulent claim or false testimony
for reference to the Commission was an imposition on his own
Government, and if that Government afterwards discovered
that it had in this way been made an instrument of wrong
towards a friendly power, it would be not only its right but
its duty to repudiate the act and make reparation as far as
possible for the consequences of its neglect if any there had
been. International arbitration must alw ys proceed on the
highest principles of national honor and integrity. Claims
presented and evidence submitted to such a tribunal must
necessarily bear the impress of the entire good faith of the
government from which they come, and it is not to be presumed that any government will for a moment allow itself
knowingly to be made the instrument of wrong in any such
proceeding. No technical rules of pleading as applied in
municipal courts ought ever to be allowed to stand in the
way of the national power to do what is right under all the
circumstances. Every citizen who asks the intervention of
his own government against another for the redress of his
personal grievances must necessarily subject himself and his
claim to these requirements of international comity. None
of the cases cited by counsel are in opposition to this. They
all relate to the disposition to be made of the proceeds of
international awards after they have passed beyond the reach
of the governments and into the hands of private parties. The
language of the opinions must be construed in connection with
this fact."' Frelinghuysen v. Key, 110 U. S. 63, 71-73.
Referring to the act of 1878, and observing that it did not

LA ABRA SILVER M-INING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

435

Statement of the Case.

undertake to set any new limits on the powers of the Executive, the court further said: "From the beginning to the end
it is, in form even, only a request from Congress to the Executive. This is far from making the President, for the time
being, a guasi judicial tribunal to hear Mexico and the implicated claimants and determine once for all as between them
whether the charges which -Mexico makes have been judicially
established. In our opinion it would have been just as competent for President Hayes to have instituted the same inquiry
without this request as with it, and his action with the statute
in force is no more binding on his successor than it would
have been 'without. But his action as reported by him to
Congress is not at all inconsistent with what has since been
done by President Arthur. He was of opinion that the disputed cases should be further investigated by the United
States to ascertain whether this Government has been made
the means of enforcing against a friendly power claims of our
citizens based upon or exaggerated by fraud, and, by implication at least, he asked Congress to provide him the means ' of
instituting and furnishing methods of investigation which can
coerce the production of evidence or compel the examination
of parties or witnesses.' He did report officially that he had
grave doubt as to the substantial integrity of the Weil claim
and the sincerity of the evidence as to the measure of damages
insisted upon and accorded in the case of La Abra Company.
The report of Mr. Evarts cannot be read without leaving the
conviction that if the means had been afforded, the inquiries
which Congress asked for would have been further prosecuted.
The concluding paragraph of the report is nothing more than
a notification by the President that unless the means are provided, he will consider that the wishes of Congress have been
met, and that he will act on such. evidence as he has been able
to obtain without the help he wants. From the statements
in the answer of Secretary Frelinghuysen in the Key case,
it appears that further evidence has been found, and that
President Arthur, upon this and what was before President
Hayes, has become satisfied that the contested decisions should
be opened and the claims retried. Consequently, the Presi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

dent, believing that the honor of the United States demands
it, has negotiated a new treaty providing for such a reexamination of the claims, and submitted it to the Senate for ratification. Under these circumstances it is, in our opinion, clearly
within the discretion of the President to withhold all further
payments to the relators until the diplomatic negotiations
between the two governments on the subject are finally concluded. That discretion of the Executive Department of the
government cannot be controlled by the Judiciary. The
United States, when they assumed the responsibility of presenting the claims of their citizens to Mexico for payment,
entered into no contract obligations with the claimants to
assume their frauds and to collect on their account all that,
by their imposition of false testimony, might be given in the
awards of the Commission. As between the United States
and the claimants, the honesty of the claims is always open
to inquiry for the purposes of fair dealing with the government against which, through the United States, a claim has
been made." .Frelinghuysemv. -Key, 110 U. S.63, 74, 76.
After the rejection of the treaty negotiated in 1882, President Cleveland in 1886 sent a message to the Senate calling
attention to the act of 1878 and asking consideration of the
status of the Weil and La Abra claims. By that message
Congress was in substance notified that if it did not take some
action in the matter the President would proceed to distribute
the funds received from Mexico under the award and remaining in the bands of the United States. The matter having
been referred to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations
it recommended the passage of a bill providing for a reinvestigation of those claims. The Committee's report on the subject thus concluded: "This brief resum6 of the correspondence
between the two Governments shows that Mexico, while
observing, in good faith, all her obligations under the Convention, has earnestly and constantly urged upon the United
States that these claims were fraudulent. This appeal to the
spirit of justice cannot be ignored but should be met by a
frank and open examination by our own courts of the facts
presented by Mexico. These claimants have no vested rights

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UINITED STATES.

437

Statement of the Case.
growing out of these claims which entitle them to come
between Mexico and the United States, and to demand the
payment of any part of these awards that are the outgrowth
of fraud and perjury." Senate Doc. Report No. 2705, 50th
Cong. 2d Sess.
No action having been taken by Congress, the subject was
again mentioned in a message sent by the President to the
Senate on the 5th of March, 1888, in response to resolutions of
that body. The message was accompanied by a report from
Mr. Bayard, Secretary of State, in which reference was made
to the action of his predecessor. He said: "It is fair toassume that the rejection by the Senate of the treaty signed
by Mr. Frelinghuysen, for an international rehearing of the
awards, was in no sense an expression of opinion adverse to
their investigation, which Mr. Evarts had recommended. It
is rather to be regarded as an approval of the opinion which
he also expressed, that the investigation should, under the circumstances, be made by this Government for itself, as a matter affecting solely its own honor. It is a remarkable fact
that whenever, since the distribution of the Mexican fund was
commenced, the deliberate judgment of the official authorized
by Congress to make such distribution has been recorded upon
the two awards in question, it has uniformly been to the effect
that the evidences that the United States, in presenting the
claims, had been made the victim of fraudulent imposition were
of such a character as to require investigation by a competent tribunal, possessing appropriate powers for that purpose.
The sole question now presented for the decision of
this Government is whether the United States will enforce an
award upon which the gravest doubts have been cast by its
own officers in opinions rendered under express legislative direction, until some competent investigation shall have shown
such doubts to be unfounded, or until that branch of the Go.vernment competent to provide for such investigation shall
have decided that there is no ground therefor." Senate Doc.
Report No. 2705, 50th Cong. 2d Sess. The Secretary recommended that Congress take action providing expressly for the
reference of the Weil and La Abra claims to the Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

Claims or such other court as was deemed proper in order that
a competent investigation of the charges of fraud might be
made.
Pending. the consideration of this matter in the Senate the
Committee on Foreign Relations examined the evidence alleged
to have been discovered by -Mexicoafter the award in question,
especially certain letters and copies of letters of the officers
and agents of the La Abra Company contained in a letter-impression book that was not before the Commission. The Committee in their report to the Senate on March 1, 1889, among
other things said: "The main allegation in the petition of the
La Abra Company presented to the Mixed Commission, to wit,
that the Company was dispossessed of its property by the forcible interference of the Mexican authorities, is disproved and
shown to have been wholly false, and this mainly by the
correspondence of the Company's own officers and agents;
and it appears by the testimony taken by the Committee that
the abandonment of the property ansd the failure of the Company were wholly due to the poverty of ihe mines and the
consequent financial embarrassment of the Company." After
reviewing, in the light of precedent and upon principle, the
question of the power of Congress to order a reexamination
of the La Abra claim, the Committee concluded its report to
the Senate: "It thus appears that the power of Congress to
reopen the La Abra award, and to direct a suit to be brought
to judicially determine whether or not it was procured by
fraud, has been affirmed by successive Secretaries of State,
assumed by Congress in the passage of the act of June 18,
1878, expressly declared by committees of both houses of
Congress, and substantially held to exist by the highest
judicial tribunal of this Government." Senate Doe. Report
No. 2705, 50th Cong. 2d Sess.
Reference should here be made to United States ex re.
Boynton v. Blaine, 139 U. S. 306, 323-326, as announcing
principles that affect certain questions arising in the present
litigation. That case was commenced on the 23d day of
November, 1889, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. Boynton, the relator, as assignee of Weil, sought to

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v.UNITED STATES.

439

Statement of the Case.

compel the Secretary of State to pay certain moneys received
under the award made pursuant to the Convention of 1868.
The mandamus asked for was refused and the petition of
Boynton was dismissed. That judgment was affirmed by this
court. The present Chief Justice, delivering the unanimous
*judgment of the court, declared its adherence to the principles
announced in Frelinghuypen v. Eey above cited and among
other things said: "As between nations, the proprietary right
in respect to those things belonging to private individuals or
bodies corporate within a nation's territorial limits is absolute,
and. the rights of Weil cannot be regarded as distinct from
those of his Government. The Government assumed the
responsibility of presenting his claim, and made it its own in
seeking redress in respect to it. Under this convention it was
the balance that was to be paid, after deducting from what
was found in favor of one Government that which was found
in favor of the other. So that the moneys paid in liquidation
of that balance belonged to the United States, to be increased
by appropiiation to the extent of the amounts allowed Mexico,
and the aggregate to be distributed to the claimants as might
be provided." Again: "Congress in furnishing the auxiliary
legislation needed to carry the results of the convention under
consideration into effect, requested the President to so far
investigate certain charges of fraud as to determine whether
a retrial ought to be had. This inquiry might have resulted
in reopening the awards as between the two nations, or in
such reexamination in a domestic forum as would demonstrate
whether the honor of the United States required a different
disposition of the particular amounts in question. The validity
and conclusiveness of the awards remained unimpugned so
long as they were permitted to stand,.and the principle of e8
judicata could not be invoked against the United States by
individual claimants while the controversy raised as to them
remained infteri. In F7relinghuyen v. Key, while conceding
the essential value of international arbitration to be dependent
upon the certainty and finality of the decision, the court
adjudged that this Government need not therefore close its
doors against an investigation into the question whether its

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the -Case.

influence has been lent in favor of a fraudulent claim. It was
held that no applicable rule was so rigid as not to be sufficiently flexible to do justice, and that the extent and character
of any obligation to individuals, growing out of a treaty, an
award and the receipt of money thereon, were necessarily
subject to such modification as circumstances might require.
So long as the political branch of the Government had not
lost its control over the subject-matter by final action, the
claimant was not in a position, as between himself and his
Government, to insist on the conclusiveness of the award as
to him. And while it is true that for the disposition of the
case of Frelinghuysenv. EIey it was sufficient that it appeared
that diplomatic negotiations were pending which, as the court
demonstrated, the act of 1878 in no manner circumscribed, it
does not follow that the political department of the Government lost its control because those negotiations failed. On
the contrary, that control was expressly reserved, for it was
made the duty of the President, if of opinion that the cases
named should be retried, to withhold payment until such
retrial could be had in an international tribunal, "fthe two
Governments so agreed, or in a domestic tribunal if Congress
so directed, and, at all events, until Congress should otherwise
direct. The fact that a difference of views as to whether a
retrial should be international or domestic may have arisen
and led to delay, or that such difference may have existed on
the merits, does not affect the conclusion. The inaction by
Congress is not equivalent to a direction by Congress. The
political department has not parted with its power over the
matter, and the intervention of the judicial department cannot now be invoked."
This brings us in the orderly statement of the history of
this dispute to the act of December 28, 1892, c. 14, 27 Stat.
409, amending and enlarging the above act of June 18, 1878.
That statute recited that the Secretary of State, after investigating the charge of fraud presented by the -Mexican Government as to the-case of the La Abra Silver Mining Company,
had reported that the honor of the United States required that
case to be further investigated by the United States to ascer-

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

441

Statement of the Case.

tain whether this Government had enforced against a friendly
power claims of its citizens based upon or exaggerated by fraud,
but that the executive branch of the Government " was not
furnished with the means of instituting and pursuing methods
of investigation which could coerce the production of evidence
or compel the examination of pa-rties and witnesses;" that
"the authority for such an investigation must proceed from
Congress;" and that the President of the United States had
transmitted to Congress the recommendation of the Secretary
of State that the case be referred to the Court of Claims, or
such other court as might be deemed proper, in order that the
charge of fraud made in relation to this claim might be fully
investigated. It was theref6re enacted:
"That in further execution of the purpose of said act, the
Attorney General of the United States be, and he is hereby,
authorized and directed to bring a suit or suits in the name
of the United States in the Court of Claims against La Abra
Silver Mining Company, its successors and assigns, and all
persons making any claim to the award or any part thereof
in this act mentioned, to determine whether the award made
by the United States and Mexican Mixed, Commission in
respect to the claim of the said La Abra Silver Mining Company was obtained, as to the whole sum included therein, or
as to any part thereof, by fraud effectuated by means of false
swearing or other false and fraudulent practices on the part
of the said La Abra Silver Mining Company, or its agents,
attorneys or assigns; and, in case it be so determined, to bar
and foreclose all claim in law or equity on the part of said
La Abra Silver Mining Company, its legal representatives or
assigns, to the money, or any such part thereof, received from
the Republic of Mexico for or on account of such award; and
any defendant to such suit who cannot be found in the District of Columbia shall be notified and required to appear in
such suit by publication as the court may direct, in accordance
with law, as applicable to cases in equity.
"ยง 2. That full jurisdiction is hereby conferred on the Court
of Claims to hear and determine such suit and to make all
interlocutory and final decrees therein, as the evidence may

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

warrant, according to the principles of equity and justice, and
to enforce the same by injunction or any proper final process,
and in all respects to proceed in said cause according to law
and the rules of said court, so far as the same are applicable.
And the Secretary of State shall certify to the said court
copies of all proofs admitted by the said Mixed Commission
on the original trial of said claim, and the said court shall
receive and consider the same in connection with such competent evidence as may be offered by either party to said
suit.
"ยง 3. That an appeal from any final decision in such cause
to the Supreme Court of the United States may be taken by
either party within ninety days from the rendition of such
final decree, under the rules of practice which govern appeals
from said court; and the Supreme Court of the United States
is hereby authorized to take jurisdiction thereof and decide the
same.
"ยง 4. That in case it shall be finally adjudged in said cause
that the award made by said Mixed Commission, so far as it
relates to the claim of La Abra Silver Mining Company, was
obtained through fraud effectuated by means of false swearing, or other false and fraudulent practices of said Company
or its assigns, or by their procurement, and that the said La
Abra Silver Mining Company, its legal representatives or
assigns, be barred and foreclosed of all claim to the money
or any part thereof so paid by the Republic of Mexico for or
on account of such award, the President of the United States
is hereby authorized to return to said Government any money
paid by the Government of Mexico on account of said award,
remaining in the custody of the United States, that has not
been heretofore distributed to said La Abra Mining Company
or its successors and assigns, which such. court shall decide
that such persons are not entitled, in justice and equity, to
receive out of said fund.
"ยง 5. That, during the pendency of said suit and until the
same is decided, it shall not be lawful for the Secretary of
State to make any further payments out of said fund, on
account of said award, to La Abra Silver Mining Company,

LA ABRA SILVER 21INING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

443

Statement of the Case.

or its legal representatives, attorneys or assigns; and in case
it shall be finally adjudged in said cause in either the Court
of Claims.or in the Supreme Court of the United States that
the award made by said Mixed Commission, so far as it relates
to the claim of La Abra Silver Mining Company, or any definable and severable part thereof, was not obtained through fraud
as aforesaid, then the Secretary of State shall proceed to distribute so much of the said award as shall be found not so
obtained through fraud, or the proceeds thereof remaining
for distribution, if any, to the persons entitled thereto." 27
Stat. 409, c. 14.
Pursuant to the provisions of that act the Attorney General
brought the present suit in the Court of Claims. The defendants are the La Abra Company and numerous individuals who
assert some interest in the award made in respect of its claim
against Mexico. The relief asked by the United States is
indicated by the following paragraph if the bill:
"Your orator further shows, that by reason of the premises
a controversy has arisen betweed your orator and the defendants hereinbefore named, the said defendants claiming that it
is the duty of your orator to pay over to them the sums by
them, the said defendants, claimed respectively from the proceeds of said award now in the possession of your orator, and
your orator claiming that it is the right and duty of your orator to have the facts relating to said claim and award inquired
of by your honorable court, and if it shall be adjudged by
your honorable court that the said award was obtained
through fraud effectuated by-means of false swearing or
other false and fraudulent practices on the part of the said
defendant La Abra Silver Mining Company, or its agents,
attorneys or assigns, to return the proceeds of said award to
the said Republic of Mexico; that the said defendants have
made persistent demands upon the Department of State and
upon the Congress of your orator for the payment to them of
said moneys, and that some of the said defendants have
brought suits in the courts of your orator to compel such payment, and that, unless restrained by the judgment and decree
of this honorable court, the said defendants will continue to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the .Case.

harass and annoy your orator with such demands and suits.
.

.

.

And that the said defendants and each and every one

of them may, by the decree of this honorable court, be forever restrained and enjoined from setting up any claim to any
part of said award or of the moneys now, as aforesaid, in
possession of your orator. And that the said award on the
claim of the said defendant La Abra Silver Mining Company
may, by the decree of this honorable court, be declared to have
been wholly obtained by means of false swearing and other
false and fraudulent practices on the part of said defendant
company, its agents, attorneys and assigns. And that your
orator may have such other and further relief as the nature
of your orator's case may require and as may be agreeable to
equity and good conscience."
The La Abra Company and other defendants demurred to
the bill on the following grounds:
That by the Constitution and laws of the United States the
subject-matter of this suit was within the final and exclusive
control of the Executive Department of the Government of
the United States and not within the jurisdiction of any judicial tribunal;
That the questions whether the award of the Commission
was obtained by fraud and whether the money received under
it and remaining undistributed by the Secretary of State
should be returned by the President of the United States
could not properly be determined by any municipal court of
either of the sovereign parties to the treaty of 1868, but were
questions of a diplomatic or political nature determinable only
by the Executive Department of the Government;
That the United States had not such an interest in the matters and things alleged in the bill as entitled it to maintain
this suit or to have the relief asked;
That the Government of Mexico was the party pecuniarily
interested in this suit, and that by failing to institute and
prosecute suit against the alleged wrongdoers in the courts of
the United States for the annulment of the award and the
recovery of the moneys paid on account thereof, it had been
guilty of laches and had forfeited all right to relief in equity;

LA ABRA. SILVER MU-IING CO. v. UNITE]D STATES.

445

Statement of the Case.

consequently, the United States was not entitled to demand
such relief for the benefit of or in the interest of Mexico;
That a mixed commission created and acting under and by
virtue of such a treaty as that of July 4, 1868, between the
United States and Mexico, was recognized by the law of
nations and by the Constitution and laws of the United States
and was in fact and law a court of exclusive and final jurisdiction, and its award could not be set aside, reopened or
vacated by a municipal court of the United States, either in
virtue of an act of Congress or otherwise, and that Congress
could not grant a new trial in respect of matters so finally
determined and concluded by international arbitration under
such a treaty; but on the contrary, such an award could, on
the part of the United States, be set aside, vacated or reopened
only through its treaty-making power; and that the question
presented by the bill, whether the award should be reopened
or not on the grounds alleged, having been submitted to the
treaty-making power and by it decided in the negative was
,es judicata;
That it appeared on the face of the bill that the question
whether the award in favor of the La Abra Company was
obtained in whole or part by fraud effectuated by means of
false swearing or other corrupt and fraudulent practices was
substantially the same question that was tried by the Commissioners, such fraud and fraudulent practices having been
charged by the Mexican Agent and Commissioner at the trial;
and that that question, on the disagreement of the two Commissioners in respect of the integrity of the witnesses and
the credibility and weight of the evidence for and against the
claim of the Company, was referred to the Umpire for decision, and having been decided by him was ,resjudicata and
could not be reexamined or redetermined by this court;
That the act of Congress under which the suit was prosecuted was unconstitutional and inoperative on the further
ground that it assumed to direct, control and bind the courts
in determining the questions submitted for final adjudication
to receive evidence and apply legal principles that were erroneous and wholly inadmissible according to law as administered

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

in the courts of the United States in like cases, and to prescribe to the court what weight and effect should be given to
the evidence and how the court should reach the conclusion
that the award was obtained in whole or in part through
fraud;
That inasmuch and because the questions presented by the
bill were of a political and diplomatic nature and not justiciable or fit and proper to be considered and finally determined
by a municipal court, Congress could not impose upon the Court
of Claims or upon the Supreme Court of the United States or
upon the judges thereof, the trial and determination of those
questions ;
That the act of Congress in question was inoperative and
void on the further ground that it was never approved by the
President of the United States as required by law, the only
alleged approval it ever received being on the 28th of DecemberA .D. 1892, when Congress was not in session, both Houses
of Congress having adjourned on the 22d of December A.D.
1892 to the 4th of January A.D. 1893; and,
That the bill did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action or to authorize the granting of any relief.
The demurrer to the bill so far as it involved the jurisdiction
of the Court of Claims and the charges of fraud wVas overruled,
the opinion of the court being delivered by Judge Weldon.
29 C. Cl. 432, 484. The question whether the act of December 28, 1892, was so approved by the President as to become
a law was determined in favor of the United States, upon the
grounds stated in the opinion of the court previously delivered by Judge Nott, now Chief Justice of that court, in Unitekd
Statem v. IMeil, 29 C. Cl. 523.
The case having been prepared on the merits, the Court of
Claims upon final hearing found that the award made by the
Commission on the claim of the La Abra Company "was
obtained as to the whole sum included therein by fraud
effectuated by means of false swearing and other false and
fraudulent practices on the part of said Company and its
agents;" and it was adjudged that all claims in law and
equity on the part of the Company, its legal representatives

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

447

Statement of the Case.
and assighs, be forever barred. and foreclosed in respect of the
money received from the Republic of Mexico for or on account
of such award. 32 C. Cl. 462, 520, 521.
An elaborate opinion of the Court of Claims, delivered by
Judge Weldon, states fully the grounds on which the decree
was based. That opinion concludes: "The court upon an
examination of all the testimony, excluding such portions of
'it as in the opinion of the court are not competent, determines
as a conclusion of fact that the La Abra Silver Mining Company did not abandon its mines in Mexico because of the interference of the people of Mexico and the public authorities of.
the Mexican Government, or either, but on the contrary that
it abandoned its mines because they were unproductive and
for the want of money to operate and work the same, and
that the award made by the United States and the Mexican
Mixed Commission in respect to the claim of the said La
Abra Silver Mining Company was obtained as to the whole
sum included therein by fraud effectuated by means of false
swearing and other fraudulent practices upon the part of said
company and its agents, and a decree will be entered barring
and foreclosing all claim in law and equity on the part of said
Company, or its agents, attorneys and assigns, to the money
received from the Republic of Mexico for or on account of
such award. Having decided that the Company was not
compelled to abandon its mines because of the acts of the
people of Mexico, unrestrained by the Mexican Government,
and that it was not compelled to abandon the mines because
of the unlawful interference of the Mexican authorities with
the property and business of the Company, it is not necessary
to consider the question of the value of the property of the
Company at the time of the abandonment."
Chief Justice Nott dissented in part from the judgment.
He was of opinion that the first three items in the award of
the Umpire, above set forth, should stand, but that the fourth
item was fraudulently exaggerated and should be reduced to
$420.09, and the fifth, $100,000, rejected altogether as having been utterly overthrown by th6 evidence. 32 C. C1.
521, 533.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Mr. Kennedy's Argument for La Abra Company.

From the judgment of the Court of Claims the present
appeal was prosecuted.
AMr. Jereriah JX. Wilson for the La Abra Silver Mining
Company.
.Mr. William A. Maury, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States.
.M. Crammond ]fennedy (upon whose brief were Mfr. Wilson, -Hr.. John C. Fay and XP). E. L. Renick) closed for the
La Abra Company. His brief contained the following points,
supported by the accompanying citations of cases.
I. The Court of Claims has no jurisdiction over this matter,
because it is not a "case" within the meaning of the Constitution, nor is it a "controversy" to which the United States
is a party: citing 5 Wheat. App., Note 1, pp. 16 & 17;
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264; Osborn v. Bank of the
United States, 9 Wheat. 738; Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50;
Cherokee 2lation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1; JAbdrray v. Hoboken
Land & Imrovement Co., 18 How. 272; Gordon v. United
States, 117 U. S. 697; Chisholm v. Georgia,2 Dali. 419; Smith
v. Adams, 130 U. S. 167; Pennsylvania v. WTheeling Bridge
Co., 13 How. 518; Curtnerv. United States, 149 U. S.662, and
cases cited; Frelinghuysen v. Key, 110 U. S. 63.
I. Neither the Court of Claims nor this court has jurisdiction of the bill, because it seeks to review and reverse the
action heretofore taken by the President of the United States
in a matter of international concern exclusively within his
discretion and control: citing Frelinghuysen v. Key, szqra;
De Bode v. The Queen, 3 Clark's H. L. Cas. 459; Williams v.
Sqffolk Ins. Co., 13 Pet. 415; .Milnor v. -Metz, 16 Pet. 221;
United States v. Diekelman, 92 U. S.520; Boynton v. Blaine,
139 U. S.306; Mfarbury v. Jfadison, 1 Cranch, 137; Jones v.
United States, 137 U. S. 202; Hilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S.168; Sinking Fund cases, 99 U. S. 700; Martin v. .fott,
12 Wheat. 19; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1; .Murrayv. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How. 272; White v. Hart,

LA ABRA SILVER -XINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

449

Mr. Kennedy's Argument for La Abra Company.

13 Wall. 646; Phillips v. Payne, 92 U. S. 130; United States
v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196; Underhill v. Fan Cortlandt, 2 Johns.
Oh. 339.
Ill. Neither the Court of Claims nor this court has jurisdiction of this suit, because it requires a collateral inquiry to
be made into the merits of an international award rendered
by a tribunal of exclusive and final jurisdiction; citing Aleade
v. United States, 9 Wall. 691; Comegys v. Yase, 1 Pet. 193;
.Zkichaels v. Post, 21- Wall. 398; Noble v. Union River -Logging Co., 147 U. S. 165; Boynton v. Blaine, 139 U. S. 306; .In
re Sanborn, 148 U. S. 222.
IV. The appellate jurisdiction of this court, if it exists,
involves and requires a review of the facts, citing Harvey v.
United States, 105 U. S. 67i; United States v. Old Settlers, 148
U. S. 427; In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1.
V. If this appeal is dismissed for want of jurisdiction the
decree of the Court of Claims will be null and void, and unavailable for any purpose whatever, citing Ex 1arte Siebold,
100 U. S. 371; United States v. Tale Todd, reported in a note
to United States v. Ferreira,13 How. 40, 52, 54.
VI. The Court of Claims erred in not dismissing the bill
when it found as a matter of fact that the Mexican Government, by the exercise of the same diligence which it exercised
after the adjournment of the Commission, could have obtained
the so-called newly discovered evidence, and used it while the
claim was pending before the Commission; citing Mestern
Cherokeee Indiansv. United States, 27 C. 01. 1; -Dexterv. Arnold,
2 Mason, 303; Barnett v. Smith, 5 Call, (Virginia) 98; Toddy.
Barlow, 2 Johns. Ch. 551; Liviingston v. Hubbs, 3 Johns. Ch.
124; Lansing v. Albany Ins. Co., 1 Hopk. Oh. 102; Allen v.
Ranney, 1 Conn. 569; Dulin v. Caldwell, 29 Georgia, 362;
Elliott v. Adams, 8 Blackf. 103; Cook v. 7foeRoberts, 5 Ky. Law
Reporter, 764; Aubel v. Ealer, 2 Bin. 582; Plymouth v. Bus-'
sell .Xlls,89 Mass. 438; YTung v. Keighly, 16 Ves. 349; Poullain v. Poullain, 79 Georgia, 11; Kennedy v. Georgia State
Bank, 8 low. 586; Life Ins. Co. v. Bangs, 103 U. S. 782;
Vood v. Carfpenter,101 U. S. 135 ; Smith v. Clay, 3 Brown Ch.
639; Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389; United 8tate8 v.
VOL. cLxxv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Bank of the Metropolis,15 Pet. 377; United States v. Hancock,
30 Fed. Rep. 851; United States v. Barker, 12 Wheat. 559;
United States v. Bank of the X3etropolis, 15 Pet. 377; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 13 How. 518.
VII. The Court of Claims erred in not dismissing the bill
on the ground that its allegations relate solely to issues passed
upon by the Mixed Commission when it examined the claim
of La Abra Company, and that the so-called newly discovered
evidence is merely cumulative upon issues already tried, and
does not show, or tend to show, the kind of fraud for which
equity will grant relief: citing Ross v. Wood, 70 N. Y. 8;
Coltzhausen v. Kerting, 29 Fed. Rep. 828; .Xqfat v. United
States, 112 U. S. 24; United States v. Flint,4 Sawyer, 52;
Livingston v. Hubbs, 3 Johns. Ch. 124; Southard v. .Russell,
16 How. 547.
VIII. The Company had in the award a vested right of
property of which the bill seeks to deprive it without just
compensation or without due process of law: citing Gracie v.
New York Insurance Co., 8 Johns. 237; Comegys v. asse, 1
Pet. 193; Phelps v. .1cDonald, 99 U. S. 298; Emerson v.
Hall, 13 Pet. 409; .Afilnor v. 2etz, 16 Pet. 221; .2fayer v.
White, 24: How. 317; Bachman v. Lawson, 109 U. S. 659;
United States v. Diekelman, 92 U. S. 520; United States v.
Weld, 127 U. S. 51; Williams v. Heard, 140 U. S. 529; Frelinghuysen v. Hey, 110 U. S. 63; Bank of Columbia v. Okely,
4 Wheat. 235; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657; Duncan v.
.3issouri, 152 U. S. 377; .]fissouri.Paifo Railway Co. v.
.Mackey, 127 U. S. 205; leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462; Yurtado v. California,110 U. S. 576; -Murrayv. Hfoboken land
& Improvement Co., 18 How. 272.
IX. The Court of Claims erred in not dismissing the bill
on the ground that the alleged fraud was neither properly
charged nor proved by the complainant.
M . JUSmiC HARLAN, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
In the light of this history of the claim of the La Abra

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

451

Opinion of the Court.

Company we proceed to the consideration of such of the
principal questions presented in argument as are essential to
the disposition of the case.
I. If, as insisted by the appellants, the above act of December 28, 1892, was not so approved by the President as to
become under the Constitution a law, it would be unnecessary
to consider any other question raised by the pleadings; for
that act is the only basis of jurisdiction in the Court of Claims
to render a judgment that would be conclusive between the
parties and which could be reviewed by this court. 'We must
therefore first consider whether that act is liable to the constitutional objection just stated.
The ground of this contention is that having met in regular session at the time appointed by law, the first Monday of
December, 1892, and having on the 22d day of that .month
(two days after the presentation of the bill to the President)
by the joint action of the two Houses taken a recess to a
named day, January 4, 1893, Congress was not actually
sitting when the President on the 28th day of December, 1892,by signing it formally approved the act in question. The proposition, plainly stated, is that a bill passed by Congress and
duly presented to the President does not become a law if his
approval be given on a day when Congress is in recess. This
implies that the constitutional power 'of the President to
approve a bill so as to make it a law is absolutely suspended
while Congress is in recess for a fixed time. It would follow
from this that if both Houses of Congress by their joint or
separate action were in recess from some Friday until the
succeeding Monday, the President could not exercise that
power on the intervening Saturday. Indeed, according to the
argument of counsel the President could not effectively approve
a bill on any.day when one of the Houses, by its own separate
action, was legally in recess for that day in order that necessary
repairs be made in the room in which its sessions were being
held. Yet many public acts and joint resolutions of great
importance together with many private acts have been
treated as valid and enforceable which were approved by
the President during the recesses of Congress covering the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Christmas holidays. In the margin will be found a reference
to some of the more recent of those statutes.'
Do the words of the Constitution, reasonably interpreted,
sustain the views advanced for appellant?
That instrument provides:
"The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year,
and such meeting shall be on the first Monday in December,
unless they shall by law appoint a different day." Art. I, ยง 4.
"Neither House, during the session of Congress, shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days,
nor to any other place than that in which the two Houses shall
be sitting." Art. I, ยง 5.
"Every bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it becomes a law, be
presented to the President of the United States; if he approves,
he shall sign it, but if not, he shall return it, with his objections, to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall
enter the objections at large on the journal, and proceed to
reconsider it. If after such reconsideration two thirds of that
1 I. PUBLIC ACTS: 1862, 12 Stat. 632, c. 4; Id. c. 5; Id. c. 6; 1866, 14
Stat. 374, c. 5; 1868, 15 Stat. 266, c. 4; 1869, 16 Stat. 61, c. 4; Id. c. 5;
1872, 17 Stat. 400, c. 12; Id. 401, C. 13; Id. 404, c. 14; Id. c. 15; Id. c. 17;
1873, 18 Stat. 1, c. 3; 1874, 18 Stat. 293, C.1; Id. c. 8; Id. c. 9; Id. 294, c. 10;
1874, 18 Stat. 294, c. 12; 1875, 19 Stat. 1, C. 1; 1879, 21 Stat. 59, c. 1; Id. c. 2;
1880, 21 Stat. 311, c. 4; Id. 312, c. 5; Id. c. 6; Id. c. 7; Id. C. 8; Id. 313,
c. 9; Id. c. 10; 1884, 23 Stat. 280, c. 7; 1886, 24: Stat. 353, c. 9; 1887, 24
Stat. 354, c. 11; Id. c. 12; d. c. 13; Id. 355, C. 14; Id. 356, c. 15; Id. 358,
c. 16; 1888, 25 Stat. 638, c. 7; Id. c. 8; 1889, 25 Stat. 639, c. 18; 1892, 27
Stat. 409, c. 14; Id. 410, c. 15; Id. 412, c. 16; 1894, 28 Stat. 595, 'C. 8; Id.
596, c. 9; Id. c. 10; Id. c. 11; Id. 597, c. 12; Id. 599, c. 14; Id. c. 15; 1897,
30 Stat. 226, c. 3.
II. JOINT RESOLUTIONS: 1869, 16 Stat. 368, No. 5; Id. No. 6; 1872, 17
Stat. 637, No. 1; 1878, 20 Stat. 487, No. 1; Id. No. 2; Id. No. 3; 1883, 23
Stat. 265, No. 3; 1885, 24 Stat. 339, No. 2; Id. No. 3; 1893, 28 Stat. 577,
To. 7; 1894, 28 Stat. 967, No. 2.
III. PrnrVATE ACTS: 1873, 18 Stat. 529, c. 2; 1874, 18 Stat. 529, C. 4; 1879,

21 Stat. 531, c. 3; 1880, 21 Stat. 601, C. 11; Id. c. 12; Id. 602, c. 13; Id. c.
14; 1884, 23 Stat. 615, c. 6,-1885, 24 Stat. 653, c. 1; Id. c. 2; 1886, 24 Stat.
881, c. 10; 1887, 24' Stat. 882, c. 17; Id. C. 18; Id. 883, c. 19; Id. 884, c. 20;
1888, 25 Stat. 1251, c. 9; Id. c. 10; Id. 1252, c. 11; Id. c. 12; Id. c. 13; Id.
c. 14; Id. c. 15; Id. 1253, c. 16; Id. c. 17; 1894, 28 Stat. 1022, C. 13; Id.
16; Id. c. 17.

c.

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

453

Opinion of the Court.

House shall agree to pass the bill, it shall be sent, together
with the objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that
House, it shall become a law. But in all such cases the votes
of both Houses shall be determined by yeas and nays, and the
names of the persons voting for and against the bill shall be
entered on the journal of each House, respectively. If any.
bill shall not be returned by the President within ten days
(Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him,
the same shall be a law, in like manner as if he had signed it,
unless the Congress, by their adjournment, prevent its return,
in which case it shall not be a law." Art. I, ยง T.
"Every order, resolution or vote, to which the concurrence
of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary,
(except on a case of adjournment,) shall be presented to the
President of the United States; and before the same shall
take effect, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved
by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and
House of Representatives, according to the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of a bill." Art. I, ยง 8.
It is said that the approval by the President of a bill passed
by Congress is not strictly an executive function, but is legislative in its nature; and this view, it is argued, conclusively
shows that his approval can legally occur only on a day when
both Houses are actually sitting in the performance of legislative functions. Undoubtedly the President when approving
bills passed by Congress may be said to participate in the
enactment of laws which the Constitution requires him to
execute. But that consideration does not determine the question before us. As the Constitution while authorizing the
President to perform certain functions of a limited number
that are legislative in their general nature does not restrict
the exercise of those functions to the particular days on which
the two Houses of Congress are actually sitting in the transaction of public business, the court cannot impose such a
restriction upon the Executive. It is made his duty by the
Constitution to examine and act upon every bill passed by
Congress. The time within which he must approve or dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

approve a bill is prescribed. If he approve a bill, it is made
his duty to sign it. The Constitution is silent as to the time
of his signing, except that his approval of a bill duly presented
to him -if the bill is to become a law merely by virtue of
such approval -must be manifested by his signature within
ten days, Sundays excepted, after the bill has been presented
to him. It necessarily results that a bill when so signed becomes from that moment a law. But in order that his refusal
or failure to act may not defeat the will of the people, as
expressed by Congress, if a bill be not approved and be not
returned to the House in which it originated within that time,
it becomes a law in like manner as if it had been signed by
him. We perceive nothing in these constitutional provisions
making the aproval of a bill by the President a nullity if
such approval occurs while the two Houses of Congress are
in recess for a named time. After a bill has been presented
to the President, no further action is required by Congress
in respect of that bill unless it be disapproved by him and
within the time prescribed by the Constitution be returned
for reconsideration. It has properly been the practice of the
President to inform Congress by message of his approval of
bills, so that the fact may be recorded. But the essential
thing to be done in order that a bill may become a law by,
the approval of the President is that it be signed within the
prescribed time after being presented to him. That being
done, and as soon as done, whether Congress is informed or
not by message from the President of the fact of his approval
of it, the bill becomes a law, and is delivered to the Secretary
of State as required by law.
Much -of the argument of counsel seems to rest upon the
provision in relation to the final adjournment of Congress for
the session, whereby the President is prevented from returning, within the period prescribed by the Constitution, a bill
that he disapproves and is unwilling to Sign. But the Constitution places the approval and disapproval of bills, as to
their becoming laws, upon a different basis. If the President
does not approve a bill, he is required within a named time to
send it back for consideration. But if by its action, after the

LA ABRA SILVER NI1IfING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

455

Opinion of the Court.

presentation of a bill to the President during the time given
him by the Constitution for an examination of its provisions
and for approving it by his signature, Congress puts it out of
his power to return it, not approved, within that time to the
House in which it originated, then the bill falls, and does not
become a law.
Whether the President can sign a bill after the final adjournment of Congress for the session, is a question not arising
in this case, and has not been considered or decided by us.
We adjudge - and touching this branch of the case adjudge
nothing more-that the act of 1892 having been presented
to the President while Congress was sitting and having been
signed by him when Congress was in recess for a specified
time, but within ten days, Sundays excepted, after it was so
presented to him, was effectively approved, and immediately
became a law, unless its provisions are repugnant to the Constitution.
II. It is said that the present proceeding based on the act
of 1892 is not a "case" within the meaning of that clause of
the Constitution declaring that the judicial power of the
United States shall extend to all cases in law and equity
arising under that instrument, the laws of the United States,
or treaties made or which shall be made under their authority.
Art. III, ยง 2. This Article, as has been adjudged, does not
extend the judicial power to every violation of the Constitution that may possibly take place, but only "to a case in law
or equity, in which a right, under such law, is asserted in a
court of jdstice. If the question cannot be brought into a
court, then there is no case in law or equity, and no jurisdiction is given by the words of the Article. But if, in any controversy depending in a court, the cause should depend on the
validity of such a law, that would be a case arising under the
Constitution to which the judicial power of the United States
would extend." Cokens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 405. In
the same case, Chief Justice Marshall declared a suit to be the
prosecution by a party of some claim, demand or request in a
court of justice for the purpose of being put in possession of a
rig t claimed by him and of which he was deprived.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Referring to the provision defining the judicial power of
the United States, the court in a subsequent case said: "This
clause enables the judicial department to receive jurisdiction
to the full extent of the Constitution, laws and treaties of the
United States, when any question respecting them shall receive such a form that the judicial power is capable of acting
on it. That power is capable of acting only when a subject is
submitted to it by a party who asserts his rights in the form
prescribed by law. It then becomes a case, and the Constitution declares that the judicial power shall extend to all cases
arising under the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United
States." Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 819.
In 2Jfurray v. H7oboken 18 How. 272, 284, this court said that
Congress can neither" withdraw from judicial cognizance any
matter which, from its nature, is the subject of a suit at the
common law, or in equity, or admiralty; nor, on the other
hand, can it bring under the judicial power a matter which,
from its -nature, is not a subject for judicial determination."
But in the same case it was observed by Mr. Justice Curtis,
sp6aking for the court, that "there are matters involving
public rights which may be presented in such form that the
judicial power is capAble of acting on them, and which are
susceptible of judicial determination, but which Congress may
-or may not bring within the cognizance of the courts of the
United States, as it may deem proper." Of like import was
the judgment in Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S. 167, 173, in which
"
the court said that the terms " cases " and " controversies 1
in the Constitution embraced" the claims or contentions of litigants brought before the courts for adjudication by regular
proceedings established for the protection or enforcements of
rights, or the prevention, redress or punishment of wrongs."
The principles announced in the'above cases are illustrated
by the opinion prepared by Chief Justice Taney for the case
of Gordon v. United States, 2 Wall. 561, and printed in 117
U. S. 697. That case was brought to this court from the
Court of Claims, and related to a demand asserted against the
United States. The principal question was whether this court
had jurisdiction to review the final order made in the court

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

457

Opinion of the Court.

below. The Chief Justice died before the case was decided
and the opinion prepared by him in recess was not formally
accepted. But if the court approved his views, as it undoubtedly did, theappeal was dismissed upon the ground that Congress could not authorize or require this court to express an
opinion on a case in which its judicial power could not be
exercised, and when its judgment would not be final and conclusive upon the rights of the parties. "The award of execution," Chief Justice Taney said, "is a part, and an essential
part, of every judgment passed by a court exercising judicial
power. It is no judgment, in the legal sense of the term,
without it. Without such an award, the judgment would be
inoperative and nugatory, leaving the-aggrieved party without a remedy. It would be merely an opinion, which would
remain a dead letter, and without any operation upon the
rights of the parties, unless Congress should at some.future
time sanction it, and pass a law authorizing the court to carry
its opinion into effect. Such is not the judicial power confided to this court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction;
yet it is the whole power that the court is allowed to exercise
under this act of Congress." In a more recent case this court
dismissed an appeal from a final order made in the Court of
Claims in virtue of a particular statute, observing: "Such a
finding is not made obligatory on the department to which
it is reported -certainly not so in terms, and not so, as we
think, by any necessary implication. We regard the function
of the Court of Claims, in such a case, as ancillary and advisory only. The finding or conclusion reached by that court
is iot enforceable by any process of execution issuing from
the court, nor is it made by the statute the final and .indisputable lasis of action either by the department or by Congress." In 'e Sanborn, 148 U. S. 222,226; InterstateCommerce
ComMiaaion v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 483.
Under the principles established in the cases above cited,
the objections urged against the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims and of this court cannot be maintained, if the present
proceeding involves a right which in its nature is susceptible
of judicial determination, and if the determination bf it by

OCTO3ER1 TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Claims and by this court is not simply ancillary
or advisory but is the final and indisputable .basis of action
by the parties.
The money in the hands of the Secretary of State was paid
to the United States by Mexico pursuant to the award of the
Commission. That tribunal dealt only with the two Governments, had no relations with claimants, and could take cognizance only of claims presented by or through the respective
governments. No claimant, individual or corporate, was entitled to present any demand or proofs directly to the Commission. No evidence could be considered except such as was
furnished by or on behalf of the respective governments.
While the claims of individual citizens presented by their
respective governments were to be considered by the Commission in determining amounts "the whole purpose of the convention was to ascertain how much was due from one.government
to the other on account of the demands of their respective
citizens." And "each government, when it entered into the
compact under which the awards were made, relied on the
honor and good faith of the other for protection so far as possible against frauds and impositions by the individual claimants." Fielinghuysei v. Key, above cited. As between the
United States and Mexico, indeed as between the United
States and American claimants, the money received from Mexico under the award of the Commission was in strict law the
property of the United States, and no claimant could assert or
enforce any interest in it so long as the Government legally
withheld it from distribution.
When the La Abra Company asked the intervention of the
United States it did so on the condition imposed by the principles of comity recognized by all ivilized nations, that it
would act in entire good faith, and not put the government
whose aid it sought in the attitude of asserting against the
Mexican Republic a fraudulent or fictitious claim; consequently the United States, under its duty to that Republic,
was required to withhold any sum awarded and paid on
account of the Company's claim if it appeared that such claim
was of that character. As betweeni the United States and the

LA. ABRA SILVER I~INING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

459

Opinion of the Court.

Company, the honesty or genuineness of the latter's claim was
open to inquiry in some appropriate mode for the purpose of
fair dealing with the government against which such claim
was made through the United States. We so adjudged in the
.Yey ea8e. The United States assumed the responsibility of
presenting the La Abra claim and made it its own in seeking
redress from the Mexican Republic. But from such action on
its part no contract obligations arose with the La Abra Company "to assuimae their frauds and to collect on their account
all that, by their imposition of false testimony, might be given
in the awards of the Commission." 'Boynton v. Blaine, above
cited.
These considerations make it clear that the. act of 1892 is
not liable to the objection that it subjected to judicial determination a matter committed by the Constitution to the exclusive control of the President. The subject was one in which
Congress had an interest, and in respect to which it could give
directions by means of a legislative enactment. The question
for the determination of which the present suit was directed to
be instituted was whether the award made by the Commission
in respect to the claim of the La Abra Company was obtained
as to the whole sum included therein or as to any part thereof,
by fraud effectuated by means of false swearing or other false
and fraudulent practices on the part of the Company, or its
agents, attorneys or assigns. It cannot, we think, be seriously
disputed that the question whether fraud has or has not been
committed in presenting or prosecuting -a demand or claim
before a tribunal having authority to allow or disallow it is
peculiarly judicial in its nature, and that in ascertaining the
facts material in such an inquiry no means are so effectual as
those. employed by or in a court of justice. The Executive
branch of the Government recognized the inadequacy for such
an investigation of any means it possessed, and declared that
Congress by-its "plenary authority" ought not only to decide
whether such an investigation should be made, but provide
an adequate procedure for its conduct and prescribe the consequences to follow therefrom. The suggestion that the question of fraud be committed to the determination of a judicial

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tribunal first came from the Executive branch of the Government. Undoubtedly Congress, having in view the honor of
the Government and the relations of this country with AMexico, could have determined the whole question of fraud for
itself, and by a statute, approved by the President, or which
being disapproved by him was passed by the requisite constitutional vote, have directed the return to Mexico, the other
party to the award, of such moneys as had been paid into the
bands of the Secretary of State. It is also clear that in the
absence of any statute suspending the distribution of such
moneys, the President could have ignored the charges of
fraud and ordered the distribution to proceed according to
the terms of the treaty and the award. But it does not follow that Congress was without power, no distribution having
been made, to control the whole matter by plenary legislation.
It has been adjudged that Congress by legislation, and so
far as the people and authorities of the United States are
concerned, could abrogate a,treaty made between this country
and another country which had been negotiated by the President and approved by the Senate. Head .lfoney cases, 112
U. S. 580, 599; Ihkitney v. Robertson, 124: U. S. 190, 194;
Chinese -Exclusion case, 130 U. S. 581, 600; Fong tue Ting
v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 721. It is therefore difficult
to perceive any ground upon which to question its power to
make the distribution of moneys in the hands of the Secretary
of State -representing in that matter the United States and
not simply the President - depend upon the result of a suit
by which the United States would be bound and in which the
claimants to the fund in question could be heard as parties,
and which was to be brought in a c6urt of the United States
by its authority, for the purpose of determining whether the
La Abra Company, its agents or assigns had been guilty of
fraud in the matter of the claim that it procured to be presented to the Commission. The act of 1892 is to be taken
as a recognition, so far as the United States is concerned, of
the legal right of the Company to receive the moneys in question unless it appeared upon judicial investigation that the

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

461

Opinion of the Court.
United States was entitled, by reason of fraud practised in
the interest of that corporation, to withhold such moneys
from it. Here then is a matter subjected to judicial investigation in respect of which the parties assert Tights - the
United States insisting upon its right under the principles
of international comity to withhold moneys received by it
under a treaty on account of a certain claim presented
through it before the Commission organized under that
treaty. in the belief, superinduced by the claimant, that it
was an honest demand; the claimant insisting upon its absolute legal right under the treaty and the award of the Commission, independently of any. question of fraud, to receive
the money and disputing the right of the United States upon
any ground to withhold the sum awarded. We *.ntertain no
doubt these rights are susceptible of judicial determination.
within the meaning of the adjudged cases relating to the
judicial power of the courts of the United States as distinguished from the powers committed to the Executive branch
of the Government.
It remains, in our consideration of the question of jurisdiction, to inquire whether the judgment authorized by the act
of 1892 to be rendered would be a final, conclusive determination, as between the United States and the defendants, of
the rights claimed by them respectively, or only ancillary or
advisory. . In our opinion the act of Congress authorized a
final judgment of the former character and therefore the judgment of the Court of Claims is reviewable by this court in
the exercisb of its appellate judicial power. If our judgment
should be one of affirmance then the La Abra Company, and
its legal representatives or assigns are barred of all claim, legal
or equitable, to the money received by the United States
from the IRepublic- of Mexico on account of the award of
the Commission.
Such a determination would rest upon
the broad ground that the United States in its efforts to
protect the alleged rights of an American corporation had
been the victim of fraud upon the part of that corporation,
its agents or assigns, and was in law relieved from any responsibility to that corporation touching the claim. in question

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

or the moneys received on account of it. If, on the other
hand, this court should find that the charges of fraud were
not sustained or were disproved, and reverse the decree of
the Court of Claims, then it would become the absolute legal
duty of the Secretary of State to proceed in the distribution
of the moneys in his hands according to the terms of the
award. It was competent for Congress by statute to impose that duty upon him and he could not refuse to obey
the mandate of the law.
Much was said in argument about the interference by the
act of 1892 with the discharge by the President of his constitutional functions in connection with matters involved in
the relations between this country and the Republic of Mexico.
For reasons already given this contention cannot be sustained.
It is without support in anything done or said by the eminent
jurists who have presided over the Department oi State since
the controversy arose as to the integrity of the claim made
by the La Abra Company. On the contrary, those officers
have uniformly insisted that the authority of Congress was
plenary to determine whether the award in respect of those
claims was procured by fraud practised on the part of that
Company and whethe in that event the Company should be
barred of any claim to the moneys received from the Republic
of Mexico. Upon this question the legislative and executive
branches of the Government have acted in perfect harmony.
The question arises under the Constitution of the United
States and a treaty made by the United States with a foreign
country, is judicial in its nature, and one to which the judicial power of the United States is expressly extended. Both
branches of the Government were concerned in the enactment
subjecting that question to judicial determination, and it cannot properly be said that the President by approving the act
of 1892 or by recognizing its, binding force surrendered any
function belonging to him under the supreme law of the
land.
It was also said in argument that the act of Congress in
some way -

not clearly defined by counsel - was inconsistent

with the, principles underlying international arbitration, a

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

463

Opinion of the Court.

mode for the settlement of disputes between sovereign States
that is now more than ever before approved by civilized nations.
We might well doubt the soundness of any conclusion that
could be regarded as weakening or .tending to Weaken the
force that should be attached to the finality of an award made
by an international tribunal of arbitration. So far from the act
of Congress having any result of that character, the effect of
such -legislation is to strengthen the principle that an award
by a tribunal acting under the joint authority of two countries
is conclusive between the governments concerned, and must
be executed in good faith unless there be ground to impeach
the integrity of the tribunal itself. The act of 1892 is a
recognition of the principle that "international arbitration
must always proceed on the highest principles of national
honor and integrity." Frelinghuyse v. Eey, above cited.
By that act the United States declares that its citizens shall
not through its agency reap the fruits of a fraudulent demand
which they had induced it to assert against another country.
Such legislation is an assurance in the most solemn and binding form that the Government of this country will exert all
the power it possesses to enforce good faith upon the part of
citizens who, alleging that they have been wronged by the
authorities of another country, seek the intervention of their
Government to obtain redress.
We hold that the act of 1892 is not unconstitutional upon
any of the grounds adverted to; that the Court of Claims
had jurisdiction to render, the decree in question; that such
decree, unless reversed, is binding upon the parties to this
cause; and that this court, in the exercise of its appellate
power, has authority to reexamine 'that decree and make such
order or give such direction as may be consistent with law.
III. The Court of Claims did not make a finding of facts.
It is therefore contended on behalf. of the United States that
the appeal provided for by the act of 1892 does not authorize
a reexamination of the evidence, as in equity cases generally.;
and that the present case comes within the rule prescribed by
this court under the authority of the act of March 3, 1863,
12 Stat. 766, c. 92; Rev. Stat. ยง 708,;providing that in connec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tion with .ny final judgment rendered in the Court of Claims
there shall be a finding of facts.
In its opinion on the demurrer to the bill the Court of
Claims said: "The directions of the statute [the act of 1892]
as to the character of the decree seem to be without doubt, and
as the court in the trial of the cause is in the exercise of equity
powers, it would find no difficulty in entering such a decree as
will carry out the purpose of the statute." 29 -C. C1. 432, 522.
In its opinion on the final hearing of the case the court below
said: "This being a proceeding in equity, this court is not
called upon to settle the facts by the finding of ultimate facts
for the consideration of the Supreme Court, but the whole
record is transmitted to that court, and the case is to be
determined in the Supreme Court upon the law as it shall be
adjudged and upon the facts as they shall be found by the
decision.,of the Supreme\Court. That would be so in a case
of this kind arising under the ordinary jurisdigtion of the
Court of Claims, but-it is"especially true f rom the provisions
of the statute giving us the specialjurisdiction to determine
the issues of this proceeding. The Aatute provides for a
decree, and not for a money judgment.'I After citing
flarvey v. United States, 105 U. S. 671, the court continued:
"All the testimony being before the Supreme Court for the
purpose of settling ultimate facts from such testimony, we
have confined the limits of this opinion to questions of law,
and the determination of the ultimate fact which is, whether
the Company was compelled to abandon its mines because of the
acts of the people of Mexico and the Mexican authorities."
32 C. Cl. 462, 515, 516.
In our judgment the Court 9 f Claims properly interpreted
the act of 1892. While that act does not, in express words,
direct the Attorney General to institute a suit "in equity" o.r
declare that this court on appeal should redxamine the entire
case on both law and facts, a suit of that character was contemplated when Congress invested the Court of Claims with
full jurisdiction to make "all interlocutory and final decrees
therein as the evidence may warrant, according to the principles of equity and justice, and to enforce the same by injunc-

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

465

Opinion of the Court.

tion or any proper final process," .and gave either party the
right to appeal to this court from the final decision within
ninety days "from the rendition of such final decree." This
construction is not inconsistent with the direction that the
Court of Claims should in all respects proceed in the suit
brought by the Attorney General "according to law and the
rules of said court, so far as the same are applicable," and
that the appeal from its final decree should be taken "under
the rules of practice which govern appeals from said court."
Looking at the words of the act of 1892 and the peculiar
nature of the important questions involved in any suit brought
under it, we cannot suppose that Congress intended to relieve
this court from the responsibility of determining for itself and
upon its own view of all the evidence what were the ultimate
facts bearing upon the inquiry as to the alleged fraud in bringing about the award in question. The present proceeding, we
think, comes within the principle announced in Harvey v.
United States, 105 U. S. 671, 691, where it was said that
the rule in regard to findings of fact in the Court of Claims
had no reference to a case "of equity jurisdiction conferred
in a special case by a special act" in which "this court must
review the facts and the law as in other cases in equity
appealed from other courts." This principle was approved
and applied in United States v. Old Settlers, 148 U. S. 427,
428, 465.
We are of opinion that the appeal provided for in the act
of 1892 was one under which it is our duty to determine the
rights of the parties as in a case in equity. The provision in
the act expressly empowering the court below in the event it
was found that the award in question was fraudulently obtained
as to the whole or any part of the sum included therein by the
La Abra Company, to bar and foreclose all claims in law or
equity on its part, together with the provision authorizing the
court to render such interlocutory and fยงnal decrees as the evidence may warrant, according to the principles of equity and
justice, and to enforce the same by injunction,imports such
jurisdiction in the Court of Claims as may be ordinarily exerT
cised by courts of equity as distinguished from courts of law,
VOL. CLXXV-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

and as entitled that court to send up the entire evidence for
examination here.
IV. We come now to consider in the light of all the evidence whether the award in question was obtained by fraud
effectuated by. means of false swearing or other false and
fraudulent practices on the part of the La Abra Company, its
agents, attorneys or assigns.
In view of the exceptional character of the case, and that
there may be no ground to misapprehend the basis upon which
our decree will rest, we deem it appropriate to set forth in this
opinion the principal facts bearing on the issue of fraud.
In its memorial presented to the Commission through the
United States, the La Abra Company referred to the mines in
Mexico of which it asserted ownership as being of extraordinary richness and historical interest.
It was stated in the memorial that after becoming the proprietor of those mines the Company with all possible dispatch
proceeded to the working of them, and to that end sent intelligent agents to Mexico, employed miners, machinists and
laborers, purchased mules, equipments, provisions, the best
and most improved machinery which were transported on the
backs of mules to the mines at heavy cost, and incurred other
expenses necessary to the most extensive afid successful working of the property; that they expended in the purchase of
the mines and in their working the sum of three hundred and
three thousand dollars, and as the result of this large expenditure were getting out a large amount of the richest ore and
were in the act of realizing the extraordinary profit of a million dollars per annum when, by reason of unfriendly and illegal acts of the Mexican officials, they were compelled to
abandon their mines, all their machinery and other property
and over a thousand tons of ore obtained by the Company
from the mines; that intense prejudice was constantly mani"fested by the civil and military authorities and by the Mexican populace against all Americans,- and especially against
those engaged in mining, this prejudice being intensified by
the belief that the United States intended to annex Durango,
Sinaloa and other States to its territory, and that the La

LA AB3RA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

467

Opinion of the Court.

Abra Company was assisting in that purpose; that the property of the Company and the persons and the lives of employ~s
were threatened by the authorities and the people, and its
superintendent was arrested without having given cause for
offence, and fined and imprisoned without trial and without being informed of any offence; that when he applied
to the authorities civil and military in Durango and Sinaloa
for protection, his request was harshly refused, and acts of
violence, encouraged by the authorities, were committed
against the property and employ~s of the Company, which so
alarmed the employ6s that it was impossible to keep them at
work; that'the authorities repeatedly seized its mule trains
loaded with provisions and appropriated the same to their use,
and large quantities of ore from the mines were taken from
the Company, its employ~s being deterred by threats from
resisting such spoliation; that things finally got to such a
pass that an employ6 of the Company in charge of one of its
trains was ldlled by the Liberal forces and the train seized,
and that was made matter of boast by the Mexican officials,
and the authorities at San Dimas openly avowed their purpose
to drive out all American mining companies and get their
property; that the one motive of this persecution was to compel the Company to leave, and thus permit the Mexicans to
obtain possession of their valuable property; and that- from
such persecution, outrages and insecurity it became impossible
for the Company to work the mines and they were abandoned
as stated, such enforced abandonment utterly ruining the
Company.
The memorial concluded by alleging that when the Company acquired the La Abra mines, though they were of
immense richness, it was impossible from their neglected state
to extract ores except by heavy expenditures; that in connection with the principal mines were buildings of great cost and
other permanent structures, but owing to the abandoned condition of the mines they were of no present value; that the
large expenditures made by the Company at the mines gave a
very great value to them and to the buildings and other permanent structures, and they became and were of the value of

OCTOBER TERI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

$1,000,000; that the Company was obliged to abandon one
thousand tons of silver ore already extracted, worth $500,000,
which it was impossible for them to bring away, and which
upon the abandonment of the mines were carried off by the
Mexicans and lost to the. Company; that when such abandonment occurred the Company was extracting large quantities
of ore, and the profits would have been great if it had been
permitted to work them; that the Company estimated its clear
annual profits which it could have obtained from the mines at
$1,000,000 per annum; that in addition to the expenditures in
the mines as aforesaid, the Company had expended $30,000 in
conducting its business; and that the mines and the improvements and machinery therein had become wholly lost to the
Corfipany, and its losses and damages because of the enforced
abandonment were $3,000,030.
The memorial also stated that the Company had never
received any indemnity for its claim, and its prayer was for
an award against the Mexican Government for its damages
with interest thereon.
It may be here observed that this memorial contained no
hint or intimation that the abandonment by the Company of
mining operations in Mexico was due in any degree to its inability or failure to supply the money necessary for the development of its property and to meet the expenses of mining
operations.
That the La Abra Company ceased to work its mines in
Mexico and practically abandoned them is undoubtedly true.
But is it true that they did so in consequence of violence and
outrages committed against it by the public authorities of the
Republic of Mexico? The United States insists upon a negative answer to this question. It contends that the Company
ceased to work its mines and abandoned its property for reasons wholly disconnected from anything done or omitted to
be done by the authorities of Mexico and asserts that the La
Abra Company suspended operations in that country not only
because of want of funds necessary to develop its property,
but because of the belief of stockholders that the mines were
not of sufficient value to justify a larger expenditure of money;

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

469

Opinion of the Court.

and that it was a pure afterthought to attempt by the agency
of the United States to fasten upon Mexico responsibility for
the losses incurred by the Company in the abandonment of
its mining property.
The connection of the La Abra Company with these mines
may be briefly stated as follows: In 1865 one Hardy went to
the city of New York for the purpose of selling mining property in Mexico which he claimed to own or control and which
constitutes part of the property now in question. He there
met a person named Garth and exhibited to him some specimens of ore which he stated were taken from that property.
Among those whose attention had been called to those mines
-precisely at what time or in what way does not appear was a person named Bartholow. Garth and Bartholow were
sent to Mexico by New York capitalists to examine the mines.
They were accompanied by Hardy and were joined by one
who was reputed to be a California mining expert, named
Griffith. The party arrived at the mines near Tayoltita,
Mexico, in June, 1865. In his deposition taken June 22, 1874,
Bartholow stated that after examining the property several
mines with their improvements were purchased from the
owners, Don Juan Castillo de Valle and Ygnacio Manjarrez,
at the price of $57,000, gold coin. Twenty-two twenty-fourths
of the La Abra mine, lying immediately contiguous to the
mines purchased from de Valle and Manjarrez, were purchased
from Hardy and one Luce, at the price of $22,000, gold coin.
In the same deposition Bartholow stated : "We then reported
said purchases, and all the facts exactly as they existed there,
to said gentlemen, capitalists, all of whom were intimate
acquaintances, and some of them personal friends and relatives
of said Garth and myself, and thereupon they formed said
Abra Silver Mining Company, and organized the same under
the general mining laws of the State of New York, to work
said mines in Mexico, which organization was perfected on
the eighteenth day of November, 1865, and said mines and
haciendas were duly conveyed to said company by said Garth
and myself, we being amongst the very largest stockholders
of the same. . . . After receiving the legal titles to all of

. OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

said property, as we did, without any reserved interest to said
former owners, the said Garth immediately returned to New
York, and I proceeded to the city of San Francisco, California,
and I there purchased, for and in the name of said Company,
as the same had been determined upon by said Garth and
myself, a ten-stamp mill, and other machinery and modern
appliances for running or working the same at said mines;
and I also purchased provisions and supplies of every kind
and description, needed by the officers and employ~s, which
could not be purchased to advantage in Mexico, and I shipped
the same to the port of Mazatlan, Sinaloa, by steamships and
sailing vessels, and from there said machinery and supplies
were transported by mule trains, over the mountains of Sinaloa
and Durango, to the said hacienda of La Abra Company, San
Nicolas, near to Tayoltita, and I commenced, as superintendent, the work of erecting a mill house for said stamp mill,
a new hacienda adjoining the old hacienda, San Nicolas, outhouses for officers and employ~s, 4nd the opening of said
mines, with general preparations for carrying on said mining
enterprise on a large scale, as was anticipated by said stockholders. In the meantime the said Garth and myself had
reported to said stockholders, at New York, our entire action
and conduct in the matter of said purchases and preparations,
which reports were accepted and fully approved by said stockholders, who, upon the organization of said Company, appointed me as the first superintendent of their said mining
operations, and requested me to remain as such superintendent until said works were fairly started, and in successful
operation. I had already requested said stockholders, and
subsequently the Company, after its organization, to appoint
a superintendent to relieve me, as my business in St. Louis
was of greater importance to me than my interest in the mining enterprise. My successor was appointed, and relieved me
at said mines in the month of May, 1866."
The successor of Bartholow as superintendent in charge of
the mining property was Colonel Julian A. De Lagnel, formerly an officer in the Army of the United States. He had
had no experience in mining, but was recognized by all -

LA. ABRA SILVER .MTINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

471

Opinion of the Court.

and properly, according to the evidence in this record -as
a
gentleman of integrity and force of character. lie left New
York for the mines in March, 1866, and arrived there in April
of that year. He discharged the duties of superintendent for
about one year and until the spring of 1867 and was succeeded by a person named Exall. The latter remained in
charge of the mines until about March or April, 1868, when he
abandoned the property and returned to New York, and all
work at the mines ceased. When Exall left Mexico for New
York, the property was placed by him in charge of one
Granger. The principal witnesses before the Commission on
behalf of the La Abra Company were Bartholow and Exall.
The Company did not take the testimony of De Lagnel, giving as a reason for not doing so the impossibility of ascer-.
taining his whereabouts. That excuse is not sustained by the
record before us.
During the entire period when Bartholow, De Lagnel and
Exall were respectively superintendents at the mines, Garth
was the executive officer and manager of the affairs of the
Company at the city of New York, representing it in all correspondence with the different superintendents. Whatever
omissions of duty were fairly chargeable against the Mexican
authorities in respect of the Company's property necessarily
occurred after Bartholow took charge at the mines and before
Exall returned to New York. During that period of about
three years there was a regular correspondence by letter
between the respective superintendents and Garth in his capacity as representative of the Company at its chief office in
New York. Neither the Commissioners nor the Umpire had
those letters before them when the La Abra claim was examined by them. After the award in question, the letter-impression book in which the letters or reports of the superintendents were originally copied was discovered by Mexico and
brought by its diplomatic representatives to the attention of
the Department of State. Of the identity of that book, as
containing the correspondence between the La Abra Silver
Mining Company and its several Superintendents at the mines,
no doubt can exist although it is insisted that some letters do

OCTOBER TE RM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

not now appear in the book that were once in it. It was, we
suppose, principally the evidence furnished by that correspondence that induced Secretary Evarts to report to the President that the honor of the United States required that the La
Abra claim should be further investigated in order to ascertain whether its Government had not been induced to enforce
against a friendly power claims of American citizens based
upon or exaggerated by fraud and false swearing.
That there was before the Commission some evidence
which, uncontradicted or unexplained, tended to support the
allegations of outrage, violence andi. neglect of duty on the
part of Mexican authorities may be admitted. That evidence
came largely from Bartholow and Exall. But it is manifest
that the Umpire could not possibly have reached the conclusion he did in respect to the La Abra claim if the letter book,
giving detailed accounts from time to time of all that occurred
at the mines while in charge of Bartholow, De Lagnel and
Exall, had been in evidence when he rendered his decision.
The reports made by the Company's superintendents as to
the management of the property and of what occurred at the
mines are utterly inconsistent with the statement that the
Company's abandonment of mining operations and of its
property was in consequence of the misconduct and violence
of the Mexican authorities. Placing this letter book beside
the evidence adduced before the Commission and the Umpire
by the La Abra Company, it is clear that the material transactions and incidents which the Company's witnesses before
the Commission detailed as establishing the charge against
the Mexican authorities were misstated or grossly exaggerated. It now appears that much of the evidence upon which
the Commission must have rested its conclusion was wholly
without foundation and had its origin in a fraudulent purpose
or plan to make it appear that the public authorities of
Mexico were chargeable with a responsibility that could not
fairly or justly be imputed to them.
Let us see how far this general statement is justified by the
evidence adduced in the present case when examined in con*
nection with the testimony brought before the Commission.

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. . UNITED STATES.

473

Opinion of the Court.

In the memorial presented by the Company through the
United States the principal specification of the outrages
alleged to have been committed by the Mexican authorities
was that "one of the personnel of the Company, in charge of
one of its trains, was openly killed by the Liberal forces, and
the train seized, and that was made matter of boast by the
Mexican officials, and the authorities at San Dimas openly
avowed their purpose to drive out all American mining compaifies and get their property." The particular matter here
referred to was that of the killing during the superintendency
of Bartholow of William. Grove, an employ6 of the Company.
We have already referred to the deposition of Bartholow
taken June 22, 1874. It sebms that prior to that date the
Mexican Government had taken the deposition or affidavit
of Pio Quinto Nunez and Cepomuceno Kanjarrez. Nunez,
who resided in the district where the mines were situated,
among other things testified "that it is not true that these
Americans abandoned their enterprise on account of the acts
of Mexican officials, and that it is equally false that either
the civil or military authorities, or the inhabitants of the district, made any prejudicial opposition to them, as they have
alleged they did; that the deponent has never seen or heard
it said that any superintendent was imprisoned, and much less
does he believe that such superintendent complained to the
civil or military authorities in Durango and Sinaloa, and was
denied the protection thus solicited; that he has never known
that the authorities have countenanced acts of violence against
the interests and employ~s of the Company; that it is false
that the authorities, as the Company allege, took possession
of their mules and"provisions, and appropriated the same to
their own use; that the Company never had any ore taken
from them, as they affirm, since that which they took out of
their mines still exists, as before stated; nor have their
employ~s ever been threatened by any Mexican with inten-,
tion to rob them; that the Company has no reason to complain, in any way, against Mexico, because they did not abandon their operations on account of the Mexicans, but because
they themselves did not understand how to carry on the work-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

ing of the mines, as is proven by the unproductive manner in
which they worked; that this is the cause of their abandonment, and not, as they say, from any want of security; that
the reparation, which the Company claims of Mexico, is not
founded in justice, because the allegations upon which it is
based are false." Manjarrez, residing in the same district,
testified to the same effect.
Now, when Bartholow's deposition was taken in 1871 he
was asked whether the statements made by Nunez and Manjarrez and other witnesses for Mexico were true. He answered
in the negative, saying they were wholly untrue. In response
to an inquiry as to the circumstances.of the murder of one of
the employ~s of the Company in charge of mule trains or supplies, he then testified: "His name was William Grove; he
was one of my most valued employ~s; he was murdered
between the town of San Ignacio and Tayoltita; I afterwards recovered his body; it was badly mutilated by gunshot wounds, evidently produced by a volley of musketry.
This occurred in January or February, 1866. At the time of
the murder Mr. Grove was in the employ of the Abra Company as quartermaster, and was intrusted with the charge of
one of our mule trains, used for transportation of supplies.
Mr. Grove was murdered by soldiers of the Republican army.
The train that was the special charge of Mr. Grove was taken
possession of by the military authorities, with its entire outfit
and supplies, all of which were totally lost to the Abra Company. The mule trains owned and worked by the Company,
at that time, were three in number, aggregating about one
hundred and fifty mules; the train so taken was one of the
three here mentioned."
This was a very imposing statement in support of the
charge in the Company's memorial as to the murder of one
of its employAs and the seizure of its property by the Mexican authorities. But the charge had no foundation in fact,
if Bartholow's account of the affair as contained in his report
made to the Company when all the circumstances were fresh
in his mind was true. In his report to Garth as the representative of the La Abra Company, of March 7,1866,- which

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

475

Opinion of the Court.

report appears in the letter book above referred to, -he said:
"In my last letter I informed you that one of my employAs,
-Wm. Grove, Esq., formerly of Saline Co., Mo., was missing,
and I feared had been waylaid and murdered; since then my
worst fears have been realized, for after a search of two weeks
his body was found buried in the sand on the bank of the
Piastla R~iver, some ten miles above the mouth of Candalaro
Creek, near where he had been murdered. At the time of
the discovery of the body it was in such an advanced state
of decomposition that it was impossible to ascertain the manner in which he had been killed. His mule, pistol and clothing have not yet been found; the mule is, however, likely to
turn up, as it had our hacienda brand 'U. S.' on the left shoulder. These facts were promptly laid before the commander
of the Liberal troops at San Ignacio, Senor D. Jesus Vega,
who took great interest in the matter and promised to use
all the means in his power to discover the murderers and
bring them to justice, and he has had arrested and placed
in confinement two men charged with the crime, and his
soldiers are in pursuit of the third. These we are assured
will be tried by court martial, and if found guilty will be"
summarily executed. Mr. Grove, I think, lost his life by
imprudence in talking; he had resided in Mexico for six or
seven years, spoke the language quite fluently, and ought to
have understood the character of the people. I had nominally purchased a train of pack mules in Mr. Grove's name
and sent him to San Ignacio to obtain a permit for them
to pack for me, and a guarantee that they would not be
taken by 'the army; he succeeded in getting these documents and was on his way home to take possession of the
mules and start them to packing; he passed the night previous to his death at the house of one Meliton, at Techamate,
the place where you will recollect we stopped for dinner on
our first trip up, where we had quite a quantity of watermelons. This man Meliton had a bad reputation, was some
years ago convicted of murder and robbery and sentenced
to be executed, but got clear by bribery. Grove told this
man of his purchase of the pack train, and that he was to

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

pay $4000 for it, and was on his way to take possession of
.it and start it to work, thus leaving the impression that he
had this sum of money with him. No*v, whilst I do not
think that Meliton committed the murder, I have no doubt
of his having planned- it and arranged for it to be done, and
the imprudence of Mr. G. in telling this man the circumstances above mentioned, in my opinion, was the cause which
led to his murder, which was effected between Techamate
and Tenchuguilita, about midway between the two places."
In a subsequent report to Garth under date of April 10, 1866,
he said: "I wrote you fully in my. last letter detailing the
circumstances of the murder of William Grove and the finding of his body. Since then the Liberal authorities have taken
the matter in hand and arrested one of the murderers at this
place. The villain was actually in our employ, doubtless for
the purpose of ascertaining when an opportunity should offer
to waylay and murder another of our men if the prospect for
plunder was sufficient to warrant the risk. When the officers
arrested him I had him conveyed to the blacksmith shop and
securely ironed. The next day he was conveyed to San Ignacio and thence to Cosala, where he was tried. We failed to
convict him for the murder of Grove, but he was convicted
for the murder of a woman, whom he killed previously, and
sentenced to be shot, and before the execution of the sentence
he confessed the murder of Grove, and revealed the names of
his two confederates; these two would have been arrested
before this but for the expulsion of the Liberals from the
country. Now we will have to wait for the Imperialists to
put their officers in power before we can act any further in
the matter."
These letters were not before the Commission. If they had
been, that body could not have attached any importance whatever to the statement in Bartholow's deposition of 1874 to the
effect that the murder of Grove was committed by soldiers of
the Republican Army, or to the charge in the Company's
memorial that such murder "was made matter of boast by
Mexican officials."
Another of the outrages alleged to have been committed

LA ABRA SILVER MIlING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

477

Opinion of the Court.

by the Mexican authorities and to have resulted in driving
the La Abra Company from its property was described in
the original evidence as the robbery of Scott, one of its
employ~s. That evidence indicated that the robbery was
by the military authorities then in control in the locality of
the mines. Referring to "the military authorities of the
Republic" under the command of General Corona, Bartholow stated in his deposition of 18741: "One of the employ~s
of the Company, who had been sent to Mazatlan on business,
was robbed by said military authorities, near Camaeho, in
Sinaloa, while on his return from Mazatlan to the Company's
works, of eleven hundred and seventy-eight dollars of the
moneys of the Company, which amount never was repaid to
the Company, nor was the Company ever indemnified for the
same in any way. I recollect the exact amount taken, because
I entered the same on the books of the Company, charging
the same to the 'robbery account,' where other 'prestamos'
and robberies were entered. The name of this employ6 who
was so robbed of the Company's money was George Scott,
commonly called I Scottie.' This transaction was nothing less
than highway robbery by said troops, and was in addition to
the several 'prestamos' levied and enforced by the military
authorities, which, I have said, ranged from three to six
hundred dollars. The amount of cash ' prestamos,' so levied
and enforced during my said superintendence, amounted to
a little more than three thousand dollars, but the value of
the mule trains and supplies so taken from the Company by
the said military, while I was superintendent, was not less
than twenty-five thousand dollars."
The same incident was described in an affidavit made in
1870 by a witness for the Company named Clark, who was a
contractor for the Company while Bartholow was in charge
of its property. He said that he knew "of other abuses of
said Company by the military authorities aforesaid; that in
the early part of 1866 an employ6 of said Company, whose
name, deponent believes, was George Scott, (called ' Scottie,')
who was on his way from Mazatlan to the works of the Company in Durango, was met in the road by an armed party of

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the said military between Mazatlan and deponent's residence
in Camacho, and said armed party of troops, of the Republican army of Mexico, did, by force of arms, take from said
Scott, or 'Scottie,' about twelve hundred out of three thousand dollars in gold coin, ($3000,) Mexican ounces, 187 ounces,
which money belonged to said 'La Abra Silver Mining Company,' and was being transported to said Company by the
said 'Scottie,' who appealed to deponent to visit, with him,
the headquarters of the army in that district, and to ask General Guerra to return said money, or to receipt for it, in order
that he might have something to return to said company;
that deponent did so visit General Guerra's headquarters with
the said 'Scottie,' but was informed by the commanding officer
that he could not give up said money. After said Scottie
had wasted two or three days to obtain some kind of acknowledgment of the taking of said money, he became disgusted,
and returned to report the facts to his Company at Tayoltita."
How differently this affair was regarded at the time by
Bartholow is shown by his report to Garth, to be found in
the letter book, under date of April 10, 1866. In that report
Bartholow spoke of the difficulties he had met and overcome,
and stated that a demand for taxes amounting to three or
four thousand dollars had been easily met, after corresponding with the collector of taxes, by the payment of thirty dollars, and that there was no necessity of troubling General
Corona with the matter. He proceeded: "In consequence of
the unsettled state of the country and the presence of bands
of robbers on and near the roads leading from here to the
port, I have had a great deal of trouble to get money from
time to time transported to pay my hands and other expenses,
and in consequence I was, of course, unwilling to risk any
very large sum at one time: yet, when we were getting timber and doing other work which required a great many Mexican laborers, we frequently needed $1000 per week, and of
course all that the proceeds of the sales of goods did not
supply had to be brought from Mazatlan, but I so managed it
that we never had more than from $1500 to $2000 at risk at
one time, and all came through safe except in one case. This

LA. ABRA SILVER MIN NG CO. v. UNITED STATES.

479

Opinion of the Court.

occurred some two weeks ago, when I sent M r. Scott to San
Ignacio to settle our taxes with the authorities. I gave him a
check on Messrs. Echeguran, Quintana & Co., for $1000 to
bring up. Besides this he had some money outside of this
sum which was left after paying the taxes in San Ignacio.
He got the money as directed and started out of Mazatlan to
overtake a train which was bringing up some supplies for us
and Mr. Rice, and when about twenty miles out from the port,
near the town of Comacho, six or eight armed men sprang
into the road and with their guns levelled upon him forced
him to dismount, and robbed him of $1178 in money, his pantaloons and boots (the latter, however, being No. 12, were too
large for any of the villains, and were returned). He immediately informed the nearest commander of the Liberal forces
of the fact, who sent for him for the purpose of identifying
the robbers. He complied, but could not find them, for the
reason that the officer could not find even half his men. I
also at the same time opened a correspondence with General
Corona through the prefect, Colonel Jesus Vega, at San
Ignacio, who by the way is, I think, one of the most perfect
gentleman I have met in the country, and I am of the opinion
that but for the turn in military affairs which occurred a few
days since, we would in some way or other have been reimbursed for the loss, but now I have no hopes whatever, and
we may as well charge up $1178 to profit and loss."
Can the statements in that r9port be reconciled with the
declaration in the affidavit of Clark and in the deposition of
Bartholow that the robbery of Scott was by the military
authorities of the Republic under General Corona? We think
not. The affair as described in that letter could never have
been made the basis of a finding that would place the responsibility for this robbery upon the public authorities then
holding control in Mexico.
We now refer to a matter occurring during the superintendency of De Lagnel. It was referred to in argument as the
Valdespino forced loan. Alluding to this exaction in his
deposition, taken in rebuttal while the case was being prepared
for the Commission, and being asked whether it was paid by

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

him, and if not by whom, Exall said: "It is untrue that any
part of it was paid by me, voluntarily or otherwise. I was
not superintendent until September, 1866, and this loan was
made in July, 1866, when Colonel De Lagnel was superintendent, as will be seen by the order addressed by said Valdespino
to Colonel De Lagnel, and to the best of my recollection, the
whole amount, $1200, was required of and paid by said De
Lagnel." Granger, in whose charge the property was left
by Exall in the spring of 1868, made an affidavit in 1870
which the Company used before the Commission in support
of the charge that the Mexican authorities had imposed upon
it forced loans or prestamos. He said: "Said Company was
also forced to pay 'prestamos.'
A letter was received by
Colonel De Lagnel, superintendent of said Company, from
Colonel Valdespino, of the Republican army of Mexico, dated
July 27, 1866, and signed 'Jesus Yaldespino,' which came
into my possession as clerk of the Company, and which letter
has never, since its receipt, passed out of my possession; and
I now present the same to the consul, marked 'Exhibit Z.'
This letter demands twelve hundred dollars ($1200) from said
Company for the support of his. forces, under his command.
It is needless to say the demand was complied with."
Here we have a distinct assertion by the Company, through
its witnesses, that this demand to pay $1200 was met by the
Company. The fact was just the reverse, as must have been
known to some of the representatives of the Company who
were accredited by it to the Commission as witnesses having
knowledge of the facts. On the day succeeding the receipt
of Valdespino's letter Colonel De Lagnel wrote to the Gefe
Politico of the San Dimas mines as follows: "In due'time
reached me your communication of yesterday in regard to a
loan or tax which you exact from the residents of the district
for the support of the forces of Colonel Valdespino, and having noticed the contents thereof I answer it forthwith. I send
you part of the articles I have and which you ask me for,
hoping that they be useful and acceptable to you. As regards
the cash I am sorry to inform you that it is impossible for
me to send you even a little, because I have not here the

LA, ABRA SILVER -MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 481
Opinion of the Court.

necessary amount to defray my many and constant expenses.
I request you to consider that this hacienda has brought the
country thousands and thousands of dollars, most of which
have been spent among the needy people of this district, and
a considerable part in duties paid into the treasury of the district, under whose flag Colonel Valdespino is serving. As it
is public and well known, not a single dollar have we received
of this sum up to date. I send you two pieces of blue mohair
and two pieces of bleached cotton, valued at sixty-five dollars
and seventy-five cents, of which amount be pleased to send
me the corresponding receipt, in order that it may serve me
as a voucher to the Company I have the honor to represent."
At the same time De Lagnel wrote to Colonel Valdespino:
"Your favor of yesterday informs me of the sad situation in
which you find yourself for the lack of resources and of your
intention to procure them preparatory to leaving the district.
Understanding the great need that you are in and considering,
as you yourself state, the many evils that we would suffer if
you should bring your forces'here, I do all I can to overcome
the difficulties, and I have sent to the political chief of the
district two pieces of mohair and two of bleached cotton,
those beihg the only things among the necessary things mentioned which I have. It is impossible for me to contribute
with money in order to provide you with what you need today. Be pleased to consider that our reducing works are not
complete, and therefore unproductive, without reckoning the
many expenses that we yet have to make, the proximity of
the rainy season, the scarcity. of money, and the abnormal
political situation, which cannot but cause us serious damages.
I am not, therefore, in a condition to accede, as you desire,
to the wishes of the political chief, but have sent him what I
have, hoping that they be accepted as a token of my good
will. I suppose that having contributed with what I can I
may, as a matter of course, resume my work without fearing
the interruption that would be caused by the arrival of armed
forces." But this is not all the evidence on this point. ..De
Lagnel, under date of July 31, 1866, wrote to Rice,'the superintendent of the Company at San Dimas, saying: "As to the
VOL. crnxxv-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

forced, voluntary (?)loan, it was an impossibility to meet the
demand, and I so stated in my note to the prefect."
If any additional evidence were needed to disprove the
statement before the Commission that the Company by its
agent had met and paid the levy of $1200 by Yaldespino to
be used in supporting his troops, it is found in De Lagnel's
deposition taken in this cause. His attention being called to
the reference in the letter book to this levy or forced loan,
he said: "I received from the civil officer in San Dimas, and
also.at the same time from Colonel Valdespino, letters, both
bearing on the same subject. He had come into the vicinity
with a command of cavalry - Liberal cavalry -destitute.
The mules were broken down by coming over the mountains.
They wanted food and clothing and money, and they wrote
to me, saying that they had apportioned it on the two mining
companies, the one at San Dimas and the one with which I
was connected, levying one quarter upon us, and the other
half was to be borne by the citizens. I was advised to comply.
They wanted $300, if I recollect right, in money. I didn't
have the money to give them, and didn't intend to give it
even if I had it. . . . I sent them a few goods -some
stuff they wanted, blankets, and hats. I sent them some
goods, cotton goods, and wrote a courteous note to each one
of them, expressing regret that I could not comply with their
wishes, and stating that we had no money, because the mines
had never turned out a dollar. They wrote me an acknowledgment and sent a receipt for the -goods and courteous acknowledgments. That was the end of it."
There are many other specific matters discussed in the
elaborate briefs of counsel. To consider each of them and
show the grounds upon which our conclusions rest would
extend this opinion far beyond all proper limits. There were
undoubtedly some unpleasant occurrences, such as the affair
between Exall and Perez, a local judge, growing out of a misunderstanding by the latter of Exall's order to him to keep
out of a particular room at the rnines. But none of those
occurrences had any real connection with the abandonment
by the Company of its mining property in Mexico; and as is

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

483

Opinion of the Court.

evident from the new proof adduced in this cause, they were
described by the Company and its witnesses in the testimony
before the Commissioners in such exaggerated terms as to
justify the charge of fraud made in the bill filed by the
Government.
What does the letter-impression book disclose as the real
cause of the Company's abandonment of its mines?
In the reports made by Bartholow, the first superintendent,
to Garth of February 6, March 7 and April 10, 1866, no
statement is made which even by inference showed that any
difficulties were in his way that had their origin in the acts or
conduct of the public civil or military authorities of Mexico.
On the contrary, one letter shows that he obtained military
protection for the mill transported from Mazatlan to the
mines, and another one that he had pleasant relations with
the civil and military authorities of the locality.
Looking next at the reports of De Lagnel, the second superintendent, we find a letter of July 6, 1866, from him to
Garth, showing that there was then a heavy outstanding
indebtedness against the Company that compelled the superintendent not only to lessen expenditures, but to reduce the
working force nearly one half, and pay the workmen for their
services one half in cash and one half in goods. Under date
of October 8, 1866, De Lagnel wrote: "I am troubled exceedingly that better success has not attended my efforts, but the
rainy season has proven a sore trial to my patience and been
a serious drawback. I have striven to meet your wishes and
expectations, and regret that my success has not been commensurate with my efforts to serve you and discharge my
duties. As to sending a successor, I deem it best to tell you
now that no money could tempt me to remain in this country
longer than next 1st March." On the 17th of November,
1866, De Lagnel wrote from Mazatlan to Garth: " H ad nothing occurred to interrupt the work, I feel sure that at this
time the mill would be in operation, and the proofs at last
being developed. Unfortunately, I was unable in September
or October to communicate with this place; and the ready
money giving out at the hacienda, the workmen (not miners)

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

refused to continue and left, thus bringing the ditch-work to a
standstill.

.

.

.

In the utter impossibility of obtaining aid

here, I have, despite the tone of your letters, drawn upon you
for the sum of seven thousand dollars. I feel sure that you
will experience no greater feeling of annoyance in receiving
the intelligence than- I do in communicating the fact; but
after debating the thing long and carefully, I am satisfied
that it is the best course to pursue. Longer delay in executing the work would be most injurious, perhaps fatal.
At present the mine is, I may say, bare of metal. A few days
before I left metal had been struck again, but in so small a
quantity as to forbid much hope."
Under date of January 5, 1867, De Lagnel wrote again to
Garth'from Mazatlan: "In your latest letter, the 20 Nov'r,
you there informed me that you can meet no further drafts
upon you; yet I had already, about the 17 Nov'r, drawn on
you as treasurer for the sum of seven thousand dollars. I
wrote to you fully by the same mail, and hoped to be able to
send the letter. via Acapulco, and thus reach you before the
draft. In this I was disappointed, and my letters having gone
via S. Francisco will reach you at the same time that the d'ft
comes in for payment. I trust that, despite what you say,
you will find some way to satisfy the draft, for if it goes to
protest it will be of incalculable injury to the best interests of
the Co. To me the consequences of such a thing would be
both mortifying and most embarrassing, but to the Comp'y's
interest they would prove far more- serious. It is therefore
that I urge upon your serious consideration the interest at
stake, and pray that a prompt settlement be given upon presentation."
De Lagnel was again in Mazatlan on February 5, 1867, and
on that day wrote to Garth, saying: "I had hoped, and fully
expected, to be able -by this time to send forward some return
for the outlay incurred by the Company in the prosecution of
its enterprise; but am disappointed in not yet having succeeded in bringing on the water in sufficient quantity to drive
all the machinery.

.

.

.

The supplies laid in during the

past year being in great part exhausted, and a new supply

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

485

Opinion of the Court.

being absolutely necessary to keep the mines, etc., going, and
there being necessity for ready money in order to purchase
the requisite supplies, I have drawn upon you for seven thousand five hundred dollars in favor of the Bank of California.
This I would not have done had it been possible to do otherwise; but no assistance can be had in this country. I have
satisfied myself on this point, and had only the alternative to
stop operations or draw on you."
We come now to the period during which Exall was superintendent. His reports to Garth, as the representative of
the Company, and Garth's letters to him, make it clear that
its bankruptcy was all the time imminent, and that the time
was near at hand when all work at the mines would be suspended, not because any obstacles were put in the way of the
Company by the Mexican authorities, but solely because it was
without money to employ in developing the property.
The first letter written by Exall shows that the financial
situation at the mines was such as to require the utmost economy on the part of the Company's superintendent.
Under date of May 6, 1867, after De Lagnel departed for
New York, Exall wrote: "I have, as far as I think safe,
reduced the number of hands at the mines, keeping only a sufficient number to show that they are still being worked. I
have a light force in the Christo; no improvement in the metal;
a light force in the La Luz' the metal about the same.
I have discharged a greater portion of the Hacienda
hands."
On the 10th of May, 1867, Garth wrote to Exall a letter in
which, after expressing the hope that De Lagnel would soon
arrive at New York, hb said: "The affairs of the Company
here are much embarrassed; a few of the directors have
advanced all the money to carry on the operations and have
been nearly ruined by it, and are not able to afford any further aid from here, and look anxiously to be reimbursed very
soon from the products of the mine, and it is hoped that your
best energies will be exerted to afford relief."
Again, under date of May 20, 1867, Garth wrote to Exall,
and referring to De Lagnel's draft for $7500 said : "This draft

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion 'of the Court.

arrived on 2d April last, and was paid by one of the directors
of the Company, as it was considered that was surely the last
that would be needed, and we expected to return the money
by an early remittance of bullion from Mexico. You can
judge of our surprise and chagrin, when the last steamer
arrived, instead of bringihg Colonel De L. with some fruits of
our works, a draft for $5000 in gold was presented for payment by Lees & Waller, drawn by De Lagnel, favor Bank
California, and dated 10th April last, and of which we had
not received any notice or advice whatever, and have not yet
received any. As I had so often and fully advised the superintendent of the condition of affairs here and requested him
not to draw further, I was much surprised that he did so, and
that without giving any notice or reason for so doing. As it
was found impossible to raise the means to pay this draft, it
was protested and returned unphid, and you must make some
provisions for its payifent when it gets back. I do trust that
beforC-that date you will have plenty of means to do so. I
would now again repeat that I have made every effort possible
to raise the money here and have failed, and I have advanced
all I can possibly do, and the other directors have done the
same; the stockholders will do nothing, and it is probable the
Company will have to 'be sold out and reorganized."
This was followed by a letter from Garth to Exall of date
May 30, 1861, in which it was said: "We wrote to you on the
20th instant, informing you that we had nothing from you or
Colonel De Lagnel, but that a draft. drawn by Colonel De L.
from Mazatlan, 10th April last, had been presented, and there
being no funds on hand, and no means here of meeting it, that
it was protested and returned not paid; it is hoped by the
time it gets back you will be prepared to meet it. Since my
last letter Colonel De Lagnel has arrived and made known to
us something of the state of things with you. I must confess
that we are amazed at the results; it seems to me incredible
that every one should have been so deceived in regard to the
value of the ore, and I can.but still hope that the true process
of extracting the silver has not been pursued, and that before
this time better results have been attained. . . . All ex-

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

487

Opinion of the Court.

penses must be cut down to the lowest point, and you and
Mr. Cullins must try and bring this enterprise into paying
condition if the thing is possible - at any rate, no further aid
can be rendered from here, and what You Deed must come
from the resources you now have. Neither must you run into
debt; cut down expenses to amount you dan realize from the
mines. I cannot yet say what can be done in the future; no
meeting of the stockholders has been held, and nothing done
to pay off the debts here, now pressing on the Company. For
the present, all I can say is that the whole matter is with you;
take care of the interests, and property of the Company; don't
get it involved in debt, and advise us fully of what you are
doing."
Garth wrote again, June 10, 1867: "We have not heard
from you since Colonel De Lagnel left Mexico, but hope that
you are well and getting along as well as could be expected.
The account that Colonel De L. gave us of the quality of the
ores on hand was most unexpected and a fearful blow to our
hopes. We trust however that a fuller examination will
show better results. We have in previous letters to you and
to De Lagnel so fully informed you of the condition of affairs
here that it is hardly necessary to say anything further on
that subject. There is no money in the treasury, and we
have no means of raising any, and a few of us have already
advanced all that we can do, and you have been advised that
the draft last drawn by De L., on,10th April, was returned
protested, and I hope you will be able to take it up when it
gets back promptly. Everything now depends upon you and
upon your judgment, energy, prudence and good management
of the resources in your hands and we hope you will be able
to command success."
So straightened were the circumstances of the Company at
that time that it .was sued in New York on promissory notes
past due, (one of the notes being held by an assignee of
Garth,) and it permitted judgment on them by default in
July, 1867, for the sum of $53,653.50. Manifestly that suit
was instituted with. the consent, if not by the direction, of the
officers of the Company who had charge of its affairs in New

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

York, who were aware of its financial embarrassments and
knew that it must soon suspend business and go into liquidation.
By a letter of June 11, 1867, Garth was informed by Exall
that he had been compelled to draw on him for $3000. The
latter's letter of July 13, 1867, expressed regret that the draft
made by De Lagnel before he left for New York could not be
paid, and stated: "All your previous letters to me were to
follow out the instructions given to Colonel De t. I took
charge of affairs at a time when the expenditure of money
was absolutely necessary to purchase supplies for the rainy
season. Colonel De L. left me with only moderate means to
buy these various supplies; pay't of sundry bills which were
coming due, and pay of the workmen who had accounts of
three, four and six months' standing."
On the 10th of July, 1867, Garth wrote to Exall: "I had
this pleasure on 30th May and 10th June last, after the return
of Colonel De Lagnel, and we had learned something of the
condition of affairs in Mexico. In these, as well as in preceding letters, you were fully advised of the condition of the
Company here; that there had been no funds in the treasury
for a long time; that' appeals had been made in vain for aid
to the stockholders, and that the parties here who had made
heavy advances to the Company were anxious for its return,
and refused to make any further payments; and that the
draft for $5000 drawn on me as treasurer by Colonel De
Lagnel, on the 10th April last, had been protested and
returned to California, and, we suppose, to parties in Mazatlan who advanced the money on it, and who would have to
look to you for payment of same; and we expressed the hope
that by. that time you would have taken out sufficient money
to meet it and all other expenses, .nd hoped soon to have a
remittance of bullion from you to aid in payment of the large
indebtedness here.

.

.

.

You will see, fron all my letters,

that no further aid can be given you from here, and that you
must rely upon the resources you now have, and which, we
think, ought to be ample to pay off the debts and to sustain
you in current expenses, which you should cut down to the

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES,

489

Opinion of the Court.

lowest possible point. .
.
Don't run into debt or get
into difficulty with the authorities, if there are any such
things existing; but at the same time be firm in maintaining
your rights, and don't submit to imposition except by force,
and then make a legal and formal protest as a citizen of the
United States and as an American company duly organized
and prosecuting a legitimate business under the protection of
the law, and our rights will be protected by our Government."
Garth wrote again on the 20th of July, 1867 : "The steamer
is just starting, and I have only time to say that your letter
of the 11th, by private hand, has been rec'd, advising us that
you had drawn on me for $3000 gold. In former letters you
will have learned the condition of things here, and that there
is no money to pay same, and that former dr'ft of De Lagnel
has been returned unpaid, and that you were urged to try
and get along with what resources you had. These letters,
no doubt, reached you in time to prevent your drawing, as no
draft has been presented, and we hope by this time there is
no necessity for doing so."
Under date of October 6, 1867, Exall wrote to Garth:
"By this steamer I am in receipt of yours of 10th and 20th of
July and 10th of August. I was much disappointed that my
urgent demand for money was- not favorably answered. I
have complied with the requests in your various letters in reference to giving you exact information conc6ining affairs here.
I now have to urge you to send me means. I have heretofore
been keeping above water by using the stock .which I fortunately had on hand; that is now ent'irely exhausted. I have
neither money, stock or credit. This latter I would. not use
even if I had it, as in this country it is an individual obligation
and no company affair. Now, you must either prepare to
lose your property here or send me money .tohold it (and that
speedily) and pay off debts of. the concern. I have worked as
economically as possible and have cut down expenses to the
lowest point. . . . I am working the mines with as few
hands as possible. What little good- metal is taken out
amounts to almost nothing. The $5000 draft of De Lagnel's
was sent to a house in this place to be collected, with instruc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

tions to seize the property in ease it was not paid. It troubled
me a great deal, and I had much difficulty in warding it off.
The concern to whom the draft was sent showed me his
instructions and also the original draft. Fortunately for the
Company there was a flaw in the draft; De Lagnel failed to
sign his position, as superintendent of the La Abra Silver
Mining Company; simply signed his name, making it an individual affair. This was the only thing that kept them from
seizing the property. I told them they could do nothing with
the property here, as the Company were not obligated on the
draft. I have exhausted all the ore that I had on band that
-was worth working. That which I worked was very poor
and the yield small. The La Luz, on the patio, won't pay to
throw it into the river. I have had numerous assays made
from all parts of each pile; the returns won't pay. Amparas
are not now granted, and mines are to be held only by working. I am compelled to keep men in mines which yield nothing, merely to hold them. This I can do no longer, as I have
nothing to give the men for their labor, and must now take
the chances and leave the mines unprotected."
The same letter contains a statembnt as to the situation
which contrasts most trangely with the charge that the Company Was prevented from successfully working its mines by
the'conduct of the [Mexican authorities.

That statement was:

"By next steamer will send you full statements of past
months. The returns from Durango were small. I turned it
over to E. P. & Co., as I was owing them. There is no difficulties about authorities, boundaries or anything else concerning the mines and hacienda, provided there is money in hand,
and money must be sent. I hope I have urged this point sufficiently so that you may see fit to send me something to hold
the mines. I should be sorry to see them lost on this account.
Please telegraph me if you intend sending money? I fear
that before I can get a reply to this something may have
occurred. Of course, Colonel De Lagnel informed-you the
conditions and terms on which I took charge of affairs here,
which was the same that he was getting, and if I had known
at the time what difficulties I was going to have in procuring

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

491

Opinion of the Court.

means to keep the concern in motion, I would have refused 4n
any terms. I am much in need of money, as I wish to use it
here. I will, in a month or so, draw on you through Wells,
Fargo & Co., San Francisco, for $1500-please inform me
by earliest opportunity that you will meet the draft.
I hope that before this reaches you some steps will have been
taken to procure means to operate with."
On the 10th of October, 1867, Garth wrote to Exall: "I
am very sorry to say that it is not possible to aid you from
here, and that you must rely entirely upon the resources of
the mines and mill to keep you going and to relieve you of
debts heretofore contracted. It is not possible for us to direct
any particular course for you, but only to urge you to try and
work- along as well as you can, cutting dowh expenses and
avoid 6mbarrassing yourself with debts. The Bank of California has again sent Colonel De Lagnel's draft here for
collection, but it was not possible to pay same, and it will
have to return to Mexico, and we do hope you will be able to
make some satisfactory arrangement to pay it."
Under date of November 17, 1867, Exall wrote to Garth
from Mazatlan: "Yours of the 30th September is just at
hand, and contrary to my expectations, contains nothing of
an encouraging nature. I expected after having previously
written so positively in reference to the critical state of affairs
with me, that you would have sent me by this mail some
means to relieve me from my embarrassing positi6n. I have
in former letters laid before you the difficulties under which I
was laboring and begged that you would send me means, and
was relying much on the present mail, expecting that some
notice would have been taken of my irgent demands for
assistance to protect the property' belonging to the Company.
To add to my further embarrassment, Mr. Cullins, whose time
expired on the 16th inst. - since my leaving Tayoltita - (I
left there on the 10th for this point), intends to commence
suit in the courts here for his year's salary. I am endeavoring
to get him to delay proceedings until the arrival of the next
steamer (don't know as yet if I will succeed in getting him to
delay), when I hope you will have seen the necessity -f acting

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

decidedly and sending means to prosecute the works and pay
off the debts of the Company, or abandoning the enterprise at
once. Nothing can be done without a further expenditure of
money. I am now doing little or nothing in the mines, and
will, when I return, discharge the few men who are now at
work in them. This I' am compelled to do, as I have no
money, and my stock is almost entirely exhausted, and I fear
if money isn't very soon sent some of the mines will become
open to denouncement. In my last letter I mentioned the
amount required for immediate demands, $3000, which must
be sent out. By next steamer Mr. Elder, Slone and Cullins,
if paid off will sail for San Francisco; if not paid off, suit will
be commenced, and as I have no means to defend the case,
fear it will go against me. When these parties leave, the
hacienda will be left almost entirely alone, there being only
myself, Mr. Granger, who I am also owing, and I away most
of the time. What you intend doing must be done promptly.
Please send me Mr. Cullins' contract with you. The political
state of the country just now is rather discouraging. I hope
by the time this reaches you you will have rec'd statement sent.
Everything at mines as it was when I last wrote, only more
gloomy in appearancb on ac't of not being able to employ
the people and put things in operatioli. Please do something
immediately, and inform me as speedily as possible."
Still relief did not come to Exall and he again wrote to
Garth from Mazatlan, under date of December 18, 1867, a
most urgent letter. It is here given in full: "I arrived here
a few days since. Received by steamer yours of October 10,
informingme of your inability to send me the means to operate with and meet my obligations. I have in previous letters
expressed the condition of affairs with me, and begged that
you would do something. Thus far I have been able to protect your interests here, but affairs have gotten to such a point
that I am unable to do so longer without money. Mr. Cullins,
who I informed you in a former letter would leave, insisted
upon doing so by this steamer. He demands a settlement,
otherwise he will immediately commence suit, and had made
preparations to do so. To keep the matter from the courts

LA ABRA SILVER MINING CO. v. UNITED STATES. 493
Opinion of the Court.

I was compelled to borrow money to pay him off. The balance due him, and the ambunt, I had to borrow here, was
$1492. He has troubled me a great deal -has been exceedingly unreasonable. On yesterday the agent of the Bank of
California informed me that he received the draft by the last
steamer (which arrived a few days ago), and would immediately commence legal proceedings, and sent the, draft on to
the courts here. I am utterly unable to oppose them; first,
I have no means, and, again, I am not your agent here, never
having received a power of attorney from you, which will be
necessary, for I cannot act in these courts without it. The
Bank of California -and
will do something to recover the
amount of the draft before the amount is doubled by the
expenses. For God's sake telegraph to pay them. Matters
of this nature once getting in these courts it takes large sums
to oppose them. The first steps taken by the courts will be
to send some one to the hacienda to see to and secure everything there. This will, of course, stop everything and make
it impossible for me to protect your interests. For your own
sake in the matter pay them before things go further. My
positiorn is extremely embarrassing, and I know not what to
do, and will have to be guided entirely by circumstances. I
will, of course, do everything in my power, and may have to
act in a very cautious manner, and will probably act in a
manner which may occasion censure. Now, all I ask of you
is to judge my actions justly, and consider my circumstances,
and believe I am doing the best for your interests. I am
doing nothing at the mines, and have only one person left
with me. Please attend to this matter promptly. I am
writing very hurriedly, as there is a war steamer just leaving for San Francisco, which will arrive there some days
prior to the regular mail. I leave for the mines in a few
hours. Attend to this at once and telegraph me."
Exall still failed to hear anything of an encouraging character from the Company. He again wrote most urgently to
Garth on the 24th day of January, 1868, as follows: "I came
down to meet steamer from San Francisco, in hopes of receiving letters from you; I received none, and now, being. entirely

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

out of funds and stock, and being sued by agents from Bank
of California for the payment, have to let things take their
own course, as I am unable longer to protect your interests
.here. In previous letters I have given you a full and detailed
account of affairs here, and such frequent repetitions I find
useless, and will simply state that I am doing nothing whatever at the mines, and cannot until I receive money to operate with. I haven't means to protest now and they are liable
to be defiounced at any moment. Some months since I wrote
you for titles; the government demanded them; they have
not been received. By steamer I sent you a telegram from
San Francisco; no reply. The parties I sent the dispatch to
in San Francisco sent it on to New York. I am owing considerable and no means of paying. What is your intention?
Is it to let -your interests here go to the dogs? You have
either to do this or send money out to protect them. If by
next steamer I receive no assistance from you, I intend leaving for the East. I will go via San Francisco, will from there
telegraph you what further steps I shall take. I have been
doing everythi"ng in my power to keep the Bank of California
from getting possession; thus far have succeeded, but can prevent them no longer, And fear they will eventually have their
own way. Mr. Cullins (who is not the man he was repre,sented to be) left by last steamer. I have only one man
now; am compelled to keep some one. Please telegraph me
in San Francisco, care of Wel & Co., immediately on receipt
of this. You can judge by what has been done in New York
and send me whether or not I may have left. Please let me
know your intentions."
The situation had become financially so discouraging to
Exall that he determined to leave the mines and return to
New York. So under date of February 26, 1868, he wrote
to James Granger, who sometimes called himself Santiago
Granger and who was at the mines, this letter: "As circumstances are of such a nature as to compel me to leave for San
Francisco, and probably for New York to inquire into the
intentions of this company, I place in your hands the care and
charge of the affairs of the La Abra S. M. Co.;- together with

LA. ABRA SILVER MIMING CO. v. UNITED STATES.

495

Opinion of the Court.

its property. You are invested hereby with all power confided to me, of course, acting in all your transactions with an
eye to the interests of the Company. This will, to you,
should occasion require it, be ample evidence of the right
possessed by you to act in their behalf."
Notwithstanding
the execution of this paper, Exall testified in his deposition
taken before the Commission in 1874 as follows: "I did not
leave said mines, hacienda or property in charge of said
Granger, or any other person, nor did I give any charge, control, power or authority of or over the same, or ahy part otf
the same, to him, or any one else, and if he, or any other person, has talen charge or control of said mines, hacienda and
property, or of any of it, or has sold, used or in any way disposed of any of it, each of such acts was without any power
or authority, or right whatever to do so, so far as any act by
me or for me, or on my part, as superintendent or otherwise,
is concerned." We also find in the record a letter from Exall,
written from Kew York to Granger under date of May 8,
1868, in which the writer says: "Of course, on the first day
of my arrival here, I saw nothing of the Company. The day
after I went down and saw Garth. Had a long talk concerning affairs, and, contrary to our expectations, gave me no
satisfaction; didn't seem to intend to do anything more. I
have seen him several times, but have got nothing from him of
an encouraging nature. He seems disgusted with the enterprise, and, so far as regards himself, intends to do nothing
more, or have nothing more to do with it. . . . I wish I
could send you some means to get along with, knowing
you -must be having quite a rough time, but am unable. I
expected to be paid up here; its not having been done plays
the devil with my arrangements." Among the letters now
produced in evidence is one from Granger, written from Tayoltita under date of August :12, 1868, to Sefior Don Remegio
Rocha. - That letter was in these words: "I have received the
communication calling upon this Company to pay $52.50 each
month for taxes imposed by the legislature of the State, and
presume it to be correct; but as I am only acting in the
absence of the superintendent, and as there is no money nor

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

effects to pay this tax, I beg you to wait until the month of
November, at which time said superintendent is to come, and
then the sums due by this Company on account of this tax
will be .paid."
From the above and other evidence in the record it is certain that before the La Abra Company ceased to work the
mining property it had become utterly bankrupt, and that its
abandonment of all operations at the mines was due to its inability from want of funds to carry them on and to the belief,
founded upon the experience of two years and more, that the
mines, if not entirely worthless, were not of sufficient value to
justify its owners in proceeding further in their development.
If the proper working of the mines while Bartholow, De
Lagnel and Exall were successively in charge of them was
prevented by the acts or omissions of duty on the part of the
public authorities of Mexico, surely that fact would have been
disclosed by the letters or reports made to the Company by
its several superintendents. The demand -made during that
time by the Company's representatives in 6harge of the mines
was not for military or civil protection, but for the money
needed to develop the property and to meet the debts incurred
at the mines during the progress of the work there. We do
not doubt that the situation was accurately described by
Exall when in the above letter to Garth of October 6,
1867, he reported that "there are no difficulties about authorities, boundaries or anything else concerning the mines and
hacienda, provided there is money on hand, and money must
be sent;" and when in his letter of November 17, 1867, he
endeavored to impress Garth with "the necessity of acting
decidedly and sending means to prosecute the works and pay
off the debts of the Company, or abandoning the enterprise at
once." In that condition of affairs, it is not strange that
Exall in the letter of January 24, 1868, just before he left
Mexico for New York, wrote to Garth: "I am owing considerable and no means of paying. What is your intention?
Is it to let your interests here go to the dogs? You have
either to do this or send money out to protect them." We
have seen that Garth, as the representative of the Company, in

LA ABRA SILVER MINNG CO. v. UNITED STATES.

497

Opinion of the Court.

a letter to Exall, dated July 10,'1867, warned him against running into debt and getting into difficulty with the authorities,
"if there are any such things existing;" "but," he continued,
"at the same time be firm in maintaining your iights, and
don't submit to imposition except by force, and then make a
legal and formal protest as a citizen of the United States and
as an American company duly organized and prosecuting a
legitimate business under the protection of the law, and our
rights will be protected by our Government." Now, it does
not appear that there was any formal protest before the
United States Consul at Mazatlan by any representative of
the Company to the effect that the Mexican authorities had
so acted or failed in duty as to compel it to abandon its property in Mexico. If the Company's superintendents had any
such view of the situation when they returned to the United
States and gave an account of their management of the
property, how natural it would have been for the Company,
in some formal way, to have promptly brought the whole
matter to the attention of the Government of the United.
States, and sought its aid in order to have justice done to
them by the Republic of Mexico. No such course was taken,
and we cannot doubt, in view of the evidence'adduced after the
Commission made its award, in connection with the evidence
before that tribunal, that the idea of attributing the losses of
the Company to the wrongful conduct of the Mexican authorities never occurred to the Company until after the organization of the Commission, long after the arrival of Exall in New
York. In March, 1870, the Company for the first time gave
notice to the Department of State that it had any claim against
the Republic of Mexico. It then claimed only $1,930,000.
A few months later it increased its claim to $3,000,030, and
before the Commission concluded its labors it amended its.
claim and fixed it at $3,962,000.

One point in connection with the letter-impression book
cannot be passed without notice. It is contended that what
passed between Garth and the superintendents in charge of
the property, in the form of letters or reports by the latter
to the former, was not admissible in evidence against the ComVOL. cLxxv-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

pany. This proposition cannot be sustained. The superintendents placed at the mines were its reprbsentatives in charge
of the Company's property. What they did at the locality of
the property in and about its mrnagement were the acts of
the Company, so far as those acts were within the scope of the
business intrusted to them. So what they said while engaged
in managing and with reference to the management of the
property, particularly what they reported to their principal
in respect to the condition of the property and their acts
in the course of the business, constitute part of the res gestw
of the controversy between the parties.. The vital inquiry in
this cause is whether the Company's representatives at the
mines were prevented by the Mexican authorities from developing and working them, whereby it was forced to abandon
the property. Surdly, what those representatives said and did
or forebore to do at the mines, bearing upon that inquiry,
would have been part of the res gestw and admissible in evidence against the Company. Upon like ground, their written
reports or letters to the Company while in charge of the property and in respect of its management are admissible in evidence so far as they bear upon the same inquiry and constitute
a part of the res gestce. The rule, we think, is accurately
stated by Greenleaf, who, after saying that the act or declaration of each member of a partnership in furtherance of the
common object of the association is the act of all, because ky
the very act of association each one is constituted the agent of
all in respect of the common business, says: "A kindred principle governs in regard to the declarations of agents. The
principal constitutes the agent his representative, in the transaction of certain business; whatever therefore the agent does, in
the prosecution of that business, is the act of the principal,
whom he represents. And .' where the acts of the agent will
bind the principal, there his representations, declarations and.
admissions, respecting the subject-matter, will also bind him, if
made at the same time, and constituting part of the res gestca.
They are of the nature of original evidence, and not of hearsay;
,the representation or statement of the agent, in such cases,
being the ultimate fact to be proved, and not an admission of

LA ABRA SILVER MINNG CO. v. UNITED STATES.

499

Opinion of the Court.

some other fact. But, it must be remembered, that the admission of the agent cannot always be assimilated to the admission
of the principal. The party's own admission, whenever made,
may be giRen in evidence against him; but the admission or
declaration of his agent binds him only when it is made during the continuance of the agency in regard to a transaction
then depending et dumfervet opu8. It is because it is a verbal
act, and part of the 'e8 gestcv, that it is admissible at all ; and
therefore it is not necessary to call the agent himself to prove it:
but wherever what he did is admissible in evidence, there it
is competent to, prove what he said about the act while he
was doing it; and it follows that where his right to act in
the particular matter in question has ceased, the principal
can no longer be affected by his declarations, they being mere
hearsay." 1 Greenl. Ev., ยง 113. See also Story on Agency,

ยง134.

Upon a careful scrutiny of all the evidence we are of opinion that so far from the Mexican Government being legally
responsible for the losses falling upon the Company, its investment was without profitable results, because the Company did
not have or did not furnish to its superintendents at the mines
the funds required for their successful development, and did
not find the property to be as valuable as they had supposed.
All this is apparent from the reports made from time to time
to the Company by its superintendents, duplicate originals
of which are to be found in the letter-impression book which
was not before the Commission. The identity of that book
is frilly established and the Mexican Republic is not fairly.
chargeable with negligence in not having discovered it sooner.
It is certain that that Government, within a reasonable time
after it received the. book, delivered it to the Department of
State, and' called attention to the important and vital facts
disclosed by it, so that the United States could take such
action as its sense of duty suggested.
Our conclusion is that the question stated in the act of 1892
.- whether the award in question "was obtained as to the
whole sum included therein, or as to any part thereof, by
fraud effectuated by means of false swearing or other false

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

and fraudulent practices on the part of the said La Abra
Silver Mining Company, or its agents, attorneys or assigns"
- must be answered in the affirmative as to the whole sum
included in the award. That Company placed before the
Commission a state of facts that had no existence, and which
we are constrained by th.e evidence to say its principal representatives must have known had no existence, but which
being credited by the Commission under the evidence adduced
before it brought about the result complained of in the bill.
The whole story of losses accruing to that Company by reason
of wrongs done by the authorities of Mexico, is, under the
evidence, improbable and unfounded. We do not wish to be
understood as saying that the Company did not meet with
losses on account of its investments in this mining property.
But we do adjudge that it had no claim which, upon any
principle of law or equity, it was entitled to assert against
the Republic of Mexico.
The decree below is
A ffrmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument on the facts

and took no part in their consideration. MR. JUSTICE MOKENA
took no part in the decision.

UNITED STATES v. PENA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND

CLATIS.

No. 72. Submitted October 2T, 1899.-Decided December 18, 1699.

The appeal in this case having been allowed within six months after the
receipt by the Attorney General of the statement of the case by the trial
attorney, and the action of the trial attorney having been approved by
one of the justices of the trial court, there is no sufficient reason for
the motion to dismiss, this court having the power under its rules, to
notice plain errors, even when not assigned.
An appeal from the Court of Private Land Claims can be allowed by one of
the Associate Justices of the court.
The grant of lands, in this case, set forth at length in the opinion of the
court, was a grant in severalty, and not one of a single large tract to

