REAL DE DOLORES DEL ORO V. UNITED STATES.

71

Syllabus.

the questionl thus becomes res aijudicata; but when the title
has once been confirmed by Congress it should be respected by
th6 Court of Private Land Claims as if it were a confirmation
by the court itself, and conflicting claimants are at liberty to
resort to the ordinary remedies at law or in equity, according
to the nature of the*claim.
The main object of the Court of Private Land Claims is to
ascertain and determine whether the land claimed as private
property under the treaty 1s in fact private property, or, on
the'contrary, is public property. In the latter case, of course,
a confirmation is refused; in the former case a confirmation
is made if the claimant appears to have, as between himself
and the United States, the right to it, but subject to the rights
of others who are at liberty to assert their superior title in the
local courts.
e are therefore of opinion that the decree of conjfrnation
should have excepted the pueblo lands, and such decree is
accordingly reversed,and the case rem'anded for further
.proceedingsin accordancewith this opinion.
MRt. JUsTI

SmEAS and MR. JTUsTICE WHITE dissented.

REAL DE DOLORES DEL ORO v. UNITED. STATES.
.APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND -CLAMS.

No. 17. Argued and submitted January 12,1899. -Decided November 30, 1899.
A claim in the Court of Private Land Claims for land within the limits of a
mine grant, which grant has been confirmed by Congregs and a patent
issued therefor, must be rejected by that court.
Section 14 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, 861, establishing that court, which provides for a personal judgment against the United
States in cases where the land decreed to any claimant, under the provisions of the act, shall have been sold or granted by the United States,
applies only to cases where such lands have been sold or granted as public lands, for a consideration which equitably belongs to the owner of
the land, and not to cases where the Government has merely released its

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.
interest to one apparently holding a good title under a Spanish or Mexican
grant, which subsequently turns out to be invalid by reason of an older
or better title.

Tins was a petition filed by the town of Real de Dolores
del Oro and Guadalupe Montoya against the United States,
the New Mexico Mining Company, and a large number of
other defendants, for the confirmation of a tract of land containing four square leagues, having f6r its centre the centre of
the old Real de Dolores del Oro -being the church situated
therein-with a prayer that the tract may be confirmed to
the town, or to the petitioner Montoya in his own right, and
in trust for the benefit of the other owners of lands within its
limits.
The petition set forth in substance that, in the year 1830,
the governor of New Mexico founded the town of Real de
Dolores del Oro according to the laws of New M.exico; that
such town continued its existence from that time to the cession of said territory to the United States, having not less
than forty residents, including not less than twenty householders and heads of families; that a church had been erected
and maintained, and all of the requirements of the laws of
the Republic of Mexido had been observed, and that the town
had been fully recognized by public authority; that by virtue
of such laws the town, in addition to the several allotments
to its inhabitants, became and was entitled under the laws of
Mexico to lands for the common use of the town, and in default of a grant for a larger quantity was entitled by law to
a tract, including the lands held in severalty, of four square
leagues from the centre of the town, namely, the church; that
there was no direct evidence or record of such grant to the
town; that the town was not incorporated, but that the petitioner Montoya brought the petition on behalf of the town
and himself, and of all other owners of land within the boundaries of the tract, and as the successors in part to the rights
and title of the original grantee; that shortly after the acquisition of New Mexico by the United States the town
ceased t& exercise the powers and functions of a municipal
government, or to elect municipal officers; that the tract is

REAL DE DOLORES DEL ORO v. UNITED STATES.

73

Statement of the Case.

now held and claimed by a large number of persons under
such grant, and it is not known that any of the possessors
or claimants thereof are adverse to the petitioners, though
they are informed that the New Mexico Mining Company
claims" some title or interest therein by virtue of a private
land grant, which is subordinate to their title; that no claim
for such tract has ever been submitted to the' authorities, and
no survey of the tract has ever been made.
Subsequently an order was made by the court requiring petitioners to bring before the court, as parties defendant, .certain
adverse possessors and claimants to portions of the land claimed
under what was known as the. San Antonio de las Huertas
grant, then pending before the court.
The United States answered this petition, traversing the
petitiozers' allegations as to the origin, existence and right
of the town to the grant claimed, and denied generally all
the other allegations. The answer further averred that, even
if such grant had been made as set forth in the petition, the
land claimed thereunder was entirely within the limits of a
tract of land known as the Ortiz Mine grant, which, by virtue
of the laws, usages and customs, and mining ordinances of
Mexico, was on the 28th of December, 1833, made to Jos6
Francisco Ortiz and Ignacio Carlo; that the claim for such
land was presented by the successors in interest of the original
grantees, to the surveyor general of New Mexico, under the
provisions of the act of Congress of July 22, 1g45, for his
approval. That the surveyor general subsequently approved
the claim; transmitted the same to Congress, recommended
its 'confirmation; and that afterwards -Congress, by act approved March 1, 1861, confirmed said claim. That subsequently a survey was made by the public authorities, and on
May 20, 1876, letters patent for such confirmed grant were
duly issued to the'New -exico Mining Company as owner
thereof. That such patent included the lands claimed in the
petition, and that the action of Congress was and is conclusive
and binding upon this court.
To the allegation of the answer setting up the Ortiz Mine
grant, the petitioners excepted upon the ground that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

answer did not allege that the right of the petitioners to said
land described in their amended petition had ever been lawfully acted upon or decided by Congress, or under its authority,
and that said matter in said amended answer was insufficient
in law to constitute a defence.
These exceptions were overruled by the court upon the
ground that the claims of the petitioners were imperfect at
the time the sovereignty and jurisdiction were acquired by
the United States, and that it appeared by the answer that the
Government bad confirmed another grant and patented all
the lands included in petitioners' claim.
The petitioners elected to stand upon the exceptions and
introduced no evidence; and a decree was thereupon entered
to the effect that petitioners' grant "was not a perfect and
complete grant thereof at or prior to the date of the cession
of New Mexico to the United States under and by virtue of
the laws, usages and customs of the Republic of Mexico, in
force at the alleged date thereof, and that the lands embraced
within the said alleged grant to the petitioners lie wholly
within the exterior boundaries" of the Ortiz mining grant;
. . . "and that the right to the said land having been
thereby lawfully acted upon and decided by Congress, and the
Government of the United States having divested itself of
the title to said property by the said act of.confirmation, and
the said patent issued in pursuance thereof, this cause cannot
be maintained in this court for the confirmation of the claim
of petitioners, alleged in said amended petition." Whereupon
petitioners appealed to this court.
.Xr,. I i. Warren, for appellants, submitted on his brief.
.Ir. .latthew G. Reynolds for the United States. Xr.
Solicitor General was on his brief.
M . JUsTIcE BrowI, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

As it appears in this case that these lands were within the
limits of the Ortiz Mine. grant--which had been confirmed

REAL DE DOLORES DEL ORO v. UINITED STATES;

75

Opinion of the Court.

by Congress, and a patent therefor issued to the principal
defendant- it follows, without adverting to other defences,
that under the opinion in United States v. Conway, just decided, the claim was properly rejected.
Nor can the petition be sustained for an indemnity under
section fourteen of the Private Land: Claim act, as no such claim
is made by the petition. We are also of opinion that section
14 of the act of March 3, 1891,-c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, (printed
in full in margin,') which provides for a personal judgment
against the United States in cases where the land decreed to
any claimant, under the provisions of the act, shall have been
sold or granted by the United States, applies only to cases
where such lands have been sold or granted as public lands,
for a consideration which equitably belongs to the owner of
the land, and not to cases where the Government has merely
released its interest to one apparently holding a good title
under a Spanish or Mexican grant, which subsequently turns
out to be invalid by reason of an older or better title. In the
one case there is a moral obligation on the part of the Government to protect the real owner. In the other, there is a mere
quitclaim of its rights to one who apparently has a better title
thereto. There is no warranty, direct or indirect, that the
title is a valid one, and no reason why the Government should
be called upon to protect it. This was the ruling of the Court

1 SEC. 14. That if in any case it shall appear that the lands or any part
thereof decreed to any claimant under the provisions of this act shall have
been sold or granted by the United States to any otherperson, such title from
the United States to such other person shall remain valid notwithstanding
such decree, and upon proof being made to the satisfaction of said court
of such sale or grant and the value of the lands so sold or granted, such
court shall render judgment in favor of such claimant- against the United
States for the reasonable value of said lands so sold or granted, exclusive
of betterments, not exceeding one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre for
such lands; and such judgment, when found, shall be a charge on the
Treasury of the United States. Either party deeming himself aggrieved by
such judgment may appeal in the same manner as provided herein in cases
of confirmation of a Spanish or Mexican grant. For the purpose of ascertaining the value and amount of such lands surveys may be ordered by
the court, and probf taken before the court, or by a commissioner appointed
for that purpose by the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court

of Private Land Claims in a prior case, and we think it is
correct.
The decree of the court below is therefore

Afflrmed.
M.P. JUSTICE

Smas and MRs. JUSTICE WHITE dissented.

AINSA v. NEW MEXICO AND ARIZONA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 1. Submitted March 8,16,1897. -Decided

October 18, 1899.

Since the act of Congress of March 3, 1891, c. 539, establishing the Court
of Private Land Claims, the courts of the Territory of Arizona have
jurisdiction, as between private parties, to determine whether a title
under a Mexican grant, which has not been confirmed or rejected by,
and is not pending before Congress, and which is asserted to have been
complete and perfect by the law prevailing in New Mexico before the
cession bf the country to the United States, was complete and perfect
before the cession.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-H. Rochester -Fordfor Ainsa.
-Y. Solicitor General and 21r.
United States.
MRs.

JUSTICE

aMtthew G. Reynolds for the

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a complaint, filed June 1, 1892, in a district court
of the Territory of Arizona and county of Pima, by Santiago
Ainsa, administrator with the will annexed of Frank Ely,
against the New Mexico and Arizona Railroad Company, to
quiet the plaintiff's title in a tract of land in that county,
known as the rancho San Jos& de Sonoita, under a grant
made by the Mexican Government to Leon Herreros on

