BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MNING CO.

571

Statement of the Case.

BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 564. Argued and submitted October 18, 1899. -Decded

January 8, 1900.

The provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 2326 for the trial of adverse claims to a mining patent "by a court of competent jurisdiction," does not relate to any
particular court, state or Federal; but it was the intention of Congress
in this legislation to leave open to suitors all courts competent to determine the question of the right of possession.
A controversy between rival claimants under that and the previous section
can be properly determined by a state court, if the usual conditions of
Federal jurisdiction do not exist, and the judgment of the Supreme Court
of a State in such case cannot be reviewed by this court, simply because
the parties were claiming rights under a Federal statute.
The court does not undertake to say that no case can arise under this legislation, which turns upon a disputed construction, and therefore presents
a question essentially Federal in its nature.

THIs was an action brought on August 27, 1897, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado,
by William H. Blackburn, a citizen of the State of Colorado
against the Portland Gold Mining Company, a corporation
of the State of Iowa, and W. S. Stratton, a citizen of the
State of Colorado.
It was alleged in the complaint that the amount in dispute
in the cause exceeded, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum
of two thousand dollars; that the suit was of a civil nature at
common law, and arose under the laws of the United States;
that it was an adverse suit, and a suit arising under the provisions of sections 2325 and 2326, Revised Statutes of the
United States, and is what is known as a suit in support of an
adverse claim; that the defendant, W. S. Stratton, had applied
for a patent for a portion of the Fairplay Lode mining claim,
survey lot No. 9331, under and by virtue of the provisions of
section 2325, and that the plaintiff Blackburn, under and by
virtue of section 2326, had filed his adverse claim and protest

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

against the entry of said portion of said Fairplay claim, upon
the ground that, a part thereof was held and owned by the
plaintiff as a part and parcel of the Eacho Lode mining claim;
that said W. S. Stratton, on or about the 4th day of February,
1897, had made application-in the United States land office at
Pueblo, Colorado, for a patent on said portion of said Fairplay
Lode mining claim under said section 2325, and that at the
time he made his said application he was not the real owner
of said portion of Fairplay Lode mining claim, neither did he
have any interest or title whatsoever therein; that long prior
to said time the said Stratton had by good and sufficient deed
conveyed all his right, title and interest in and to said claim
to the Portland Gold Mining .Company, defendant, and for
that reason the plaintiff brought this action against the said
the Portland Gold Mining Company jointly with said Stratton;
that on February 1, 1897, and ever since, the plaintiff was
and is the owner of and in actual possession of the Eacho Lode
mining claim, 1500 by 300 feet, situati in the Cripple Creek
mining district, El Paso County, State of Colorado, and that
plaintiff has the legal right to occupy and possess the same by
virtue of a full compliance with the local rules and regulations of miners in said mining district and of the laws of the
United States and of the State of Colorado, and by preemption, discovery and location thereof as a lode mining claim
located on the public domain of the United States; that on
February 4, 1897, the defendant wrongfully and unlawfully
entered into and upon a parcel of the said Eacho Lode mining claim described as follows, to wit: All that part of said
claim which is intersected by the exterior lines of survey No.
9331, known as the Fairplay Lode mining claim, as shown by
plat marked B, filed on July 28, 1899, in the land office of the
United States at Pueblo, Colorado, with the adverse claim of
plaintiff against the entry of said survey lot for patent; that
the defendant has ever since wrongfully withheld possession
of said parcel of Eacho Lode mining claim from the plaintiff,
to his damage in the sum of one thousand dollars; that this
suit 'is brought in support of said adverse claim within thirty
days after the filing of said adverse claim, and that plaintiff

BLACKJBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MINING CO.

573

Counsel for Parties.
has necessarily disbursed and expended the sum of one thousand dollars for plats, abstracts and copies of papers filed in
said land office with said adverse claim, and also a reasonable
counsel fee, to wit, two hundred dollars for the expense of
preparing his said adverse claim.
The plaintiff prayed for a judgment that he is the owner
and entitled to the possession of and patent to the abovedescribed parcel of said Eacho Lode mining claim, and for the
recovery of. the same; for the sum of one thousand dollars
damages; for the sum of three hundred dollars expended in
behalf of said adverse claim, and for costs of suit.
On November 8, 1897, the defendants, The Portland Gold
Mining Company and W. S. Stratton, moved the court to
dismiss the cause for the following alleged reasons:
1st. That the court has no jurisdiction either of the parties
or the subject-matter of said suit:
2d. That both the plaintiff and defendants in said suit are
citizens of the State of Colorado, and the same is not one
wholly between citizens of different States:
3d. That it does not appear in said complaint that the
amount in controversy in said suit is tvo thousand dollars:
4th. That it appears from said complaint that said suit is
one which cannot under the Constitution and statutes of the
United States be brought into this court.
On December 20, 1897, the court entered judgment dismissing the cause for want of jurisdiction, and signed a bill
of exceptions at the request of the plaintiff, and also certified
that the said question of jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
the United States was the only one involved in the said cause,
and was the sole question upon which said cause was dismissed, and also allowed the present writ of error.
Mr.Charles T 2ughes, 7'., for plaintiff- in error submitted
on his brief.
Mr. F E. Bryant for defendants in error.
Thomas and Mr. H. 2R.Lee were on his brief.

Mr.

. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTICE SIIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As the court below filed no opinion, we are not distinctly
informed upon which of the several grounds alleged the court
proceeded in dismissing the cause for want of jurisdiction, and
therefore it will be necessary for this court to consider each
and all of them.
First, then, does the record disclose that the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value
of two thousand dollars? The allegation in the complaint is
"that the amount in dispute in this cause exceeds, exclusive
of interest and costs, the sum of two thousand dollars;" and
it is also made to appear that the matter in dispute is the title
to a mining claim, for which, and for damages and expenses
amounting to thirteen hundred dollars, the plaintiff demands
judgment. The defendants did not think fit to traverse these
allegations, but moved to dismiss on the face of the complaint.
Upon such a motion, as upon a demurrer, a court will not
incline to dismiss for want of jurisdiction unless the facts
appearing of record create a legal certainty of that conclusion.
Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550; Vetinore v. Rymer, 169
U. S. 115. We are not impressed by the criticism that the
amount, instead of the matter, in dispute is alleged to have
exceeded two thousand dollars. The meaning of such an allegation is clear, and in the absence of any traverse thereof,
and of any pretence that, in point of fact, the matter in dispute did not exceed the sum or value of two thousand dollars,
we think that the record fairly imports the necessary jurisdictional amount.
The next contention, that the Circuit Court could not take
jurisdiction because the record did not disclose that the controversy was between citizens of different States, seems to us
to have been well founded. The complaint alleged that Stratton, one of the defendants, was a citizen of the same State as
the plaintiff. Not only was Stratton named as a party defendant in the complaint, but a summons was sued out against hini
as such; and the motion to dismiss the complaint was made

BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MINING CO.

575

Opinion of the Court.

in behalf of Stratton as well as of the Portland Gold Mining
Company.
It is, however, argued that, as it is alleged in the complaint
that Stratton had conveyed by deed his interest in the mining
claim to the Portland Gold Mining Company, Stratton was a
nominal party only, whose presence on the record would not
defeat the jurisdiction of the court as between the other parties; and cases are cited in which it has been held that the
jurisdiction of the Federal courts will not be defeated by the
mere joinder or non-joinder of formal parties. TWormley v.
Tgormley, 8 Wheat. 421; Wood v. .Davis, 18 How. 467; Walden
v. Skinner, 101 U. S. 577.
But considering the nature of the suit and the relief sought
thereby, we are not prepared to hold that Stratton was a purely
formal and unnecessary party. It is clear, from the provisions
of sections 2325 and 2326, Revised Statutes, that they contemplate a controversy between an applicant for a patent and
an adverse claimant. Under the first of these sections Stratton, as the complaint shows, made personal application in the
United States land office at Pueblo for a patent.
In order, therefore, that a controversy could arise under
these sections, Stratton must have complied with the provisions of section 2325 by having located a piece of land and
by having filed in the land office an application under oath
for a patent, showing compliance, together with a plat and
field notes of the claim, made by or under the direction of
the United States surveyor general, showing accurately the
boundaries of the claim, which shall be distinctly marked by
monuments on the ground, and by having posted a copy of
such plat, together 'ith a notice of such application for a
patent, in a conspicuous place on the land embraced in such
plat previous to the filing of the application for a patent, and
by filing an affidavit of at least two persons that such notice
has been duly posted, and by filing a copy of the notice in
the land office.
It is quite evident, under these provisions and the allegations of the complaint, that, when Blackburn desired to file
an adverse claim, he was informed by the proceedings in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

land office that Stratton was the applicant for the patent
and was asserting his compliance with the statute, and was
therefore a proper and necessary party to make defendant.
Why he included the Portland Gold Mining Company as a
party defendant is not quite evident, but it may be conjectured
that he wished to raise some question as to the validity of
Stratton's proceedings in the land office after he had, as
alleged, parted with his interest in the claim. However this
may be, we are of opinion that Blackburn could not proceed
safely and formally to raise an issue by an adverse claim without making the person claiming the patent a party defendant
when he instituted his proceedings in court.
Nevertheless, even if the Circuit Court could not take jurisdiction of the case because the controversy was not between
citizens of different States, it is claimed that the court had
jurisdiction because an adverse suit, or suit brought in support of a protest and adverse claim, under the provisions of
sections 2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes, is a suit arising under the laws of the United States in such a sense as to
confer jiurisdiction on a Federal court, regardless of the citizenship of the parties.
This presents an i*mportant question, one that has been differently answered in the lower courts which have been called
upon to decide it. Burke v. The Buncer Hill _ian. Co., 46
Fed. Rep. 6441; TYrfton v. .Nouges, 4 Sawyer, 178; Buitter v.
Shoshone Mining Co., -75 Fed. IRep. 37; Shoshone Mining Co.
v. Buter, 59 U. S. App. 538.
It may be well to quote in full the language of the sections
in question:
"SEc. 2325. A patent for any land claimed and located for
valuable deposits may be obtained in the following manner:
Any person, association or corporation authorized to locate a
claim under this chapter, having claimed and located a piece
of land for such purposes, who has, or have, complied with
the terms of this chapter, may file in the proper land office an
application for a patent, under bath, showing such compliance,
together with a plat and field notes of the claim or claims in
common, made by or under the direction of the United States

BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MINING CO.

577

Opinion of the Court.

surveyor general, showing accurately the boundaries of the
claim or claims, which shall be distinctly marked by monuments on the ground, and shall post a copy of such plat,
together with a notice of such application for a patent, in a
conspicuous place on the land embraced in such plat previous
to the filing of the application for a patent, and shall file an
affidavit of at least two persons that such notice has been duly
'posted, and shall file a copy of the notice in such land office,
and shall thereupon be entitled to a patent for the land, in the
manner following: The register of the land office, upon the
filing of such application, plat, field notes, notices, and affidavits, shall publish a notice that such application has been made,
for the period of sixty days, in a newspaper to be by him
designated as published nearest to iuch claim; and he shall
also post such notice in his office for the same period. The
claimant at the time of filing this application, or at any time
thereafter, within the sixty days of publication, shall file with
the register a certificate of the United States surveyor general
that five hundred dollars' worth of labor has been expended,
or improvements made upon the claim, by himself or grantors;
that the plat is correct; with such further description by such
reference to natural objects or permanent monuments as shall
identify the claim, and furnish an accurate description, to be
incorporated in the patent. At the expiration of the sixty
days of publication the claimant shall file his affidavit, showing that a plat and notice have been posted in a conspicuous
place on the claim during such period of publication. If no
adverse claim shall have been filed with the register and the
receiver of the proper land office at the expiration of the sixty
days of publication, it shall be assumed that the applicant is
entitled to a patent, upon the payment to the proper officer
of five dollars per acre, and that no adverse claim exists; and
thereafter no objection from third parties to the issuance of
a patent shall be heard, except it be shown that the applicant has failed to comply with the terms of this chapter.
"SEc. 2326. Where an adverse claim is filed during the
period of publication, it shall be upon oath of the person or
persons niaking the same, and shall show the nature, bounVOT. cLxxv-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

daries and extent of such adverse claim, and all prcceedings,
except the publication of notice, and making and filing of the
affidavit thereof, shall be stayed until the controversy shall
have been settled or decided by a court of competent jurisdiction, or the adverse claim waived. It shall be the duty of the
adverse claimant, within thirty days after filing his claim, to
commence proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction,
to determine the question of the right of possession, and prosecute the same with reasonable diligence to final judgment;
and a failure so to do shall be a waiver of his adverse claim.
After such judgment shall have been rendered, the party
entitled to the possession of the claim, or any portion thereof,
may, without giving further notice, file a certified copy of the
judgment roll with the register of the land office, together
with the certificate of the surveyor general that the requisite
amount of labor has been expended or improvements made
thereon, and the description required in other cases, and shall
pay to the receiver five dollars per acre for his claim, together
with the proper fees, whereupon the whole proceedings and
the judgment roll shall be certified by the register to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, and a patent shall
issue thereon for the claim, or such portion thereof as the
applicant shall appear, from the decision of the court, to
rightly possess. If it appears from the decision of the court
that several parties are entitled to separate and different portions of the claim, each party may pay for his portion of the
claim, with the proper fees, and file the certificate and .description by the surveyor general, whereupon the register shall
certify the proceedings and judgment roll to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, as in the preceding case, and
patent shall issue to the several parties according to their
respective rights. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the alienation of the title conveyed by a
patent for a mining claim to any person whatever."
The first observation to be made is that Congress did not
intend to prescribe jurisdiction in any particular court, state
or Federal. "It shall be the duty of the adverse claimant,
within thirty days after filing his claim, to commence .proceed-

BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MIINING CO.

579

Opinion of the Court.

ings in a courtof competent jurisdiction,to determine the question of the right of possession, and prosecute the same with
reasonable diligence to final judgment."
The natural inference from this language is that the competency of the adjudicating court was not to be determined by
the mere fact that the mining claims in controversy consisted
of lands the title to which was in the United States. If that
"factalone were to be decisive no other than a Federal court
would have been mentioned. We think the intention of Congress, in this legislation, was to leave, open to suitors all courts
competent to determine the question of the right of possession.
If the parties to the controversy were citizens of different
States, and if the matter in dispute exceeded the sum or value
of two thousand dollars, then the claimant might elect to commence proceedings in a Federal or in a state court, because
either would be competent to determine the question of the
right of possession. But if the usual conditions of Federal jurisdiction did not exist, that is, if there was no adverse citizenship, and if the matter in dispute did not exceed two thousand
dollars, then the party claimant could proceed in a state court.
This court has frequently been'vainly asked to hold that controversies in respect to lands, one of the parties to which had
derived his title directly under an act of Congress, for that
reason alone presented a Federal question. Thus, in Romie v.
Casanova,91 U. S. 379which was an action brought to recover
the possession of certain lands in the city of San Jos6, the question to be determined was, which of two parties had actully
obtained a grant of the particular premises in question. The
title of the city had originated before the cession of California
to the United States. But this court said: "The title of the
city was not questioned. Even if it depended upon the treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo and the several acts of Congress to
ascertain and settle private land claims in California, the case
would not be different. Both parties admit that title, and their
litigation extends only to the determination of the rights which
they have severally acquired under it." Accordingly the writ
of error to the Supreme Court of California was dismissed for
want of jurisdiction.

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Again, in .eStay v. Fiedman, 92 U. S. 723, where, in ejectment for apart of the lands confirmed to*the city of San Francisco by an act of Congress, the validity and operative effect
of which were not questioned, this court held that it had no
jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme Court of
California, saying: "No Federal question was involved in the
decision of the Supreme Court. The city title was not drawn
in question. The real controversy was as to the transfer of
that title to the plaintiffs in error; and this did not depend
upon the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under, the United States."
Gold Waslng and Water Co. v. Keyes, 96 U. S.199, was
a suit in equity in a state court of California, and brought on
petition into the Circuit Court of the United States on the
allegation that its determination involved the construction of
certain laws of the United States affecting rights in public
and mineral lands. The Circuit Court remanded the case to
the state court on the ground that no real or substantial controversy, properly within the jurisdiction of a Federal court,
appeared to be involved. That judgment of the Circuit Court
was affirmed by this court in an opinion of Mr. Chief Justice
Waite, a portion of which was as follows:
I"The attempt to transfer this cause was made under that
part of section 2 of the act of 1875, which provides for the
removal of suits ' arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States.' In the language of Chief Justice Marshall, a
case ' may truly be said to arise under the Constitution or a
law of the United States whenever its correct decision depends upon the construction of either.' Cohen8 v. Virginia,6
Wheat. 379. Or when ' the title or right set up by the party
may be defeated by one construction of the Constitution or
law of the United States, or sustained by the opposite construction.' Os5orn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 822.
"1In this petition the defendants set forth their ownership, by title derived under the laws df the United States,
of certain valuable mines, that can only be worked'by the
hydraulic process, which necessarily requires the use of the

BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MINING CO.

581

Opinion of the Court.

channels of the river and its tributaries in the manner complained of; and they allege that they claim the right to this
use under the provisions of certain specified acts of Congress.
They also allege that the action arises under, and that its
determination will necessarily involve and require the construction of, the laws of the United States specifically enumerated, as well as the preemption laws. They state no facts
to show the right they claim, or to enable the court to see
whether it necessarily depends upon the construction of the
statutes. . . . The statutes referred to contain many provisions; but the particular provision relied on is nowhere
indicated. A cause cannot be removed from a state court
simaply because, in the course of the litigation, it may become
necessary to give a construction to the Constitution or laws
of the United States. The decision of the case must depend
upon that construction. The suit must, in part at least, arise
out of a controversy between the parties in regard to the
operation and effect of the Constitution or laws upon the facts
involved. . . . Before, therefore, a Circuit Court can be
required to retain a cause under this jurisdiction, it must in
some form appear upon the record, by a statement of facts,
in legal and logical form, such as is required in good pleading,
that the suit is one which ' really and substantially involves a.
dispute or controversy' as to a right which depends upon the
construction or effect of the Constitution, or some law or treaty
of the United States."
What is meant by the provision in section 2326, that the
question of the right of possession should be determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction,*was thus spoken of in Guamemrv. 1a'rington,111 U. S. 350;
"It is apparent that the statute requires a judicial -proceeding in a competent court. What is a competent. court is not
specifically'stated, but it undoubtedly means a court of general
jurisdiction, whether it be a state court or a Federal court;
and, as the very essence of the trial is to determine rights by
a regular procedure in such court, after the usual methods,
which rights are dependent upon the laws of the United
States, we see no reason why, if the amount in controversy is

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

sufficient in a case tried in a court of the United States, or a
proper case is made on a writ of error to a state court, the
judgment may not be brought to this court for review, as in
other similar cases."
This statement is not inconsistent with the cases herein
previously cited, as the right to review the judgment of a
state court is said to be limited to a proper case having been
made, clearly implying that some Federal question should be
involved, and that a mere controversy as to the right of possession would Tiot make such a proper case; for otherwise every
case arising under section 2326 would be a proper case.
In Irhon Silver .Mining Co. v. Campbell, 135 U. S. 286, 299,
Mr. Justice Miller in discussing the scope of these sections,
said:
"It is true that there are no very distinctive words declaring what kind of adverse claim is required to be set up as a
defence against the party making publication; but throughout the whole of these sections and the original statute from
which they were transferred to the Revised Statutes, the
words 'claim' and 'c laimalit' are used. This word is, in all
legislation of Congress on the subject, used in regard to a
claim not yet perfected by a title from the Government by
way of a patent. And the purpose of the statute seems to be
that where there are two claimants to the same mine, neither
of whom has yet acquired the title from the Government,
they shall bring their respective clainis to the same property,
in the manner prescribed in the statute, before some judicial
tribunal located in the neighborhood where the property is,
and that the result of this judicial investigation shall, govern
the action of the officers of the land department in determining which of these claimants shall have the patent, the final
evidence of title, from the Government."
The ruling in Bushnell v. Crooke Mining Co., 148 U. S. 682,
is directly applicable to the present case. There a, writ of
error brought to this court a judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Colorado. The suit was in ejectment brought
by the Crooke Mining Company in a state court against Bushnell, to recover possession of a certain portion of the surface

BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MINfNG CO.

583

Opinion of the Court.

location of a mining claim on Ute Mountain, and grew out
of conflicting and interfering locations of mining claims. The
claim of the latter was first located, but when the company
applied for a patent Bushnell filed an adverse claim to a
portion of the saIize location, and thereafter, under section
2326 of the Revised Statutes, and within the time prescribed
therein, commenced his action in the state court. In the
complaint it was alleged that the plaintiff was the owner of
the Annie Lode mining claim, and that defendants had, at a
certain date, entered upon and ever since wrongfully held
possession of a part of said claim, specifically described, and
that the action was in support .of plaintiff's adverse claim to
such portion of the surface location. The question presented
on the trial of the controversy arose out of conflicting and
interfering locations, and the court gave and refused certain
requests to charge the jury, which appear at length in the
report of the case in this court. The trial resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff. An appeal *was
taken to the Supreme Court of Colorado, which affirmed the
judgment of the lower court. The Supreme Court of Colorado rested its judgment upon the general proposition that
the trial court had correctly stated to the jury the principal point in controversy, and had left it properly to them to
determine, as a matter of fact, what was the course of the
conflicting lodes. The case was then brought to this court
and was heard on a motion, to dismiss the writ or affirm the
judgment.
Mr. Justice Jackson, in sustaining the motion to dismiss,
said:
"It is plainly manifest that neither the pleadings nor the
instructions given and refused present any Federal question,
and an examination of the opinion of the Supreme Court
affirming the action of the trial Court as to instructions given,
as well as to its refusal to give the instructions asked by the
defendants below, fails to disclose the presence of any Federal
question. , It does not appear from the record that any right,
privilege or immunity under the Constitution or laws of the
United States. was specially set up or claimed by the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

below, or that any such right was denied them, or was even
passed upon by the Supreme Court of the State, nor does it
appear, from anything disclosed in the record, that the necessary effect in law of the judgment was the denial of any right
claimed under the laws of the United States.
"The decision of the Supreme Court of Colorado in no way
brought into question the validity or even construction of any
Federal statute, and it certainly did not deny to the plaintiffs
in error any right arising out of the construction of the Federal statutes. It was said by the Chief Justice, in Cook
County v. Calumet & Chicago Canal Co., 138 U. S. 635, 653:

'The validity of a statute is not drawn in question every
time rights claimed under such statute are controverted, nor
is the validity of an authority every time an act done by such
authority is disputed.'"
Accordingly the writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Colorado was dismissed.
The legal import of this decision plainly is that a controversy between rival claimants under sections 2325 and 2326 of
the Revised Statutes may be properly determined by a state
court, and that the judgment of a state Supreme Court, in
such a case, cannot b6 reviewed by this court simply because
the parties were claiming rights under the Federal statute.
Colorado Central Consolidated fining Co. v. Turck, 150
U. S. 138, was brought to this court on a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. An action
of ejectment by Turck against the mining company for pbssession of a certain lode mining claim had been tried in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Colorado, and determined in the plaintiff's favor. The case was
taken by a writ of error to the United States Circuit.Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and the judgment was there
affirmed, and thereupon a writ of error was allowed to this
court. The case was here heard on a motion to dismiss on
the ground that the suit was between citizens of different
States, and that, therefore, under the Judiciary Act of March
3, 1891, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was
final. An attempt was made in argument to sustain the right

BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MINING CO. 585
Opinion of the Court..

of this court to take jurisdiction because, although the suit
was between citizens of different States, yet that the solution
of the disputed ownership depended upon the construction and
application of section 2322 of the Revised Statutes, concerning the dip and apex of lodes, and that hence the suit really
and substantially involved a controversy only to be determined by reference to the Federal statute. But this contention did not prevail, and the writ of error was dismissed.
While it is true that the conclusion reached was mainly put
upon the ground that the record did not disclose affirmatively
that any distinctive Federal question was involved, yet, as the
record did disclose a controversy between claimants arising
under a Federal mining statute, it is a necessary implication of the decision that that fact alone did not render the
case one of which the Circuit Court could take jurisdiction
irrespective of citizenship, but that other and apt allegations
were required showing that the controversy was determinable
by one of two conflicting constructions of the Federal statute,
and not one of mere- fact in which the validity of the statute
was not drawn into question.
A similar principle was involved in Gillir v. Stindhfeld, 159
U. S. 658. That was a suit brought in a state court of California and concerned the ownership of a mining claim. The
case was brought to this court, and it was claimed that, as the
question in dispute could only be determined by .anapplication of sections 2322 and 2336 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, such a state of facts appearing by the record,
there was disclosed a Federal question which, of itself, gave
this court jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State. But a motion to dismiss the writ of error
was allowed. It is true that this court put its judgment on
the ground that the judgment of the state Supreme Court
was based upon an estoppel, deemed by that court to operate
against the plaintiff in error uppn general principles of law,
irrespective of 'any Federal question. Still the. case is authority for the proposition that controversies in respect to titles
derived under the mining laws of the United States may be
legitimately determined in the state courts, and that to ewable

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

this court to review the judgment in such a case it must
appear not only that the application of a Federal statute was
involved, but that the controversy was determined by a construction put upon the statute adverse to the contention of
one of the parties.
In Borgmeyer v. Idler, 159 U. S. 408, it was held that the
mere fact that the matter in controversy in an action is a sum
of money received by one of the parties as an award under the
treaty of the United States with a foreign power, providing
for the submission of claims against that power to arbitration,
does not in any way draw in question the validity or construction of that treaty, so as to confer jurisdiction on this
court to review the judgment of a Circuit Court of the United
States. In this case Gill v. Oliver, 11 How. 529, 545, was
cited, in which a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of
Maryland was dismissed because, although the matter in dispute was money derived under a treaty with Mexico, yet such
a dispute did not involve any question as to the validity or
construction of the treaty, Mr. Justice Grier saying: "Both
parties claim money in court; and, in order to test the value
of their respective assignments they introduce the history of
the claim from its origin. The treaty and award are facts in
that history. They were before the court, but as facts and
not for construction. If A held land under a patent from the
United States or a Spanish grant ratified by treaty, and his
heirs or assignees dispute as to which have the best title under
him, this does not make a case for the jurisdiction of this
court under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act. If
neither the validity nor the construction of the patent or title
under the treaty is contested, if both parties claim under it,
and the contest arises from some question without or dehors
the patent or treaty, it is plainly no case for our interference
under this section. That the title originated in such a patent
or treaty is a fact in the history of the case incidental to it,
but the essential controversy between the parties is without
and beyond it."
It should not be overlooked that sections 2325 and 2326
form a part of a general scheme in reference to the mineral

BLACKBURN v. PORTLAND GOLD MINING CO.

587

Opinion of the Court.

lands of the United States. That scheme is contained in
chapter six of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and
includes sections from 2318 to 2352. Some light is thrown
upon the intention of Congress, in the particular we are now
considering, by other provisions than those expressed in sections 2325 and 2326.
Thus 'ection 2319 enacts that "all valuable mineral deposits
in lands belonging to the United States, both surveyed and
unsurveyed, are hereby declared to be free and open to exploration and purchase, by citizens of the United States and
those who have declared their intention to become such, under
regulations prescribed by law, and according to the local customs or rules of miners in the several mining districts, so far
as the same are applicable and not inconsistent with the laws
of the United States."
Section 2324 provides that "the miners of each mining
district may make regulations not in conflict with the laws of
the United States, or with -the laws of the State or Territory
in which the district is situated, governing the location, manner of recording, amount of work necessary to hold possession
of a mining claim," etc.
Section 2332 enacts that where claimants "have held and
worked their claims for a period equal to the time prescribed
by the statute of limitations for mining claims of the State
or Territory where the same may be situated, evidence of such
possession and working of the claims for such peribd shall be
sufficient to establish a right to a patent thereto, under this
chapter, in'the absence of any adverse claifii," etc.
Section 2339 provides that "whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of water' for mining, agricultural,
manufacturing or other purposes, have vested and -accrued,
and the same are recognized and acknowledged by the local
customs, laws and the decisions 'of courts, the possessors and
owners of such vested rights shall be maintained and protected in the same," etc.
Without undertaking to say that no cases can arise under
this legislation which turn upon a disputed construction, and
therefore presenting a question essentially Federal in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

nature, we hold that clearly where a patent is authorized to
be issued to the party in possession, the statutes refer the
contest to the ordinary tribunals, which are to determine the
rights of the parties without any controversy as to the construction of those acts, but are to be guided by the laws,
regulations and customs of the mining district in which the
lands are situated. In a case, therefore, like the present,
where Federal jurisdiction does not arise because the parties
are citizens of different States, and where no question is made
as to the meaning and construction of the statutes of the
United States, the state courts are to be regarded, within the
letter and meaning of section 2326, as courts of "competent
jurisdiction to determine, the right of possession." The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.
MR.JUsTICE "MoKEINNA dissented.
MR. JsTicE BRowN

did not sit in this case, and took no

part in its decision.

UNITED STATES v. GLEASON.
APPEAL FROMd THE COURT OF CLAW .
No. 59. Argued December T, 8,199.-Decided January 8,1900.
The United States, through an officer of Engineers, contracted with the
appellees to excavate rock within a fixed time. The contract contained
the following provisions among others: "If, in any event, the party
of the second part shall delay or fail to commence with the delivery of
the material or the performance of the work on the day specified herein,
or shall, in the judgment of the engineet in charge, fail to prosecute
faithfully and diligently the work in accordance with the specifications
and requirements of this contract, then in either case the party of the
first part, or his successor legally appointed, shall have power, with the
sanction of the Chief of Engineers, to annul this contract by giving notice
in writing to that effect to the party or parties (or either of them) of the
second part, and upon the giving of such notice all money or reserved
percentage due or to become due to the party or parties of the second
part by reason of this contract shall be and become forfeited -to the
United States ; and the party of the first part shall be thereupon author-

