OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

KING v. CROSS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND.
No. 28. Argued October 12, 1899.-Decided December 11, 1899.

An attachment regularly made in Rhode Island at the suit of a citizen of
Rhode Island, of a debt due from a Rhode Island corporation "toa citizen
- of Massachusetts, the day after the latter had filed in Massachusetts a
petition for the benefit of the Massachusetts insolvent laws, but eight
days before the publication of notice of the issue of a warrant on that
petition, is a valid attachment, and is not dissolved by a subsequent
assignment under those laws, notwithstauding the provision thereof dissolving attachments of the property of an insolvent debtor, made within
four months before the first publication of such notice, that provision
having no extra-territorial effect.

THE firm of Brown, Steese & Clarke, established in Boston,
on the 12th day of August, 1889, filed in the proper court in
and for the county of Norfolk, Massachusetts, a petition praying to be allowed to take the benefit of the insolvent laws of
the State of Massachusetts. On the day after-that is, on
the 13th of August, 189- John A. Cross, a citizen of Rhode
Island, residing at Providence in that State, commenced suit
in Rhode Island against the members of the firm of Brown,
Steese & Clarke on two negotiable notes drawn by the firm.
The Lippitt Woolen Company and two other Rhode Island
corporations carrying on business in that State were served,
on the day the suit was filed, with trustee process on the averment that these corporations were indebted to the above named
firm. The Lippitt Woolen Company answered under the
trustee process, disclosing the sum of'its indebtedness. In the
insolvency proceedings an assignee was appointed, and he
commenced suit in Massachusetts against the Lippitt Woolen
Company to recover the debt due by that corporation to the
insolvent firm, and against which debt the trustee process
had been issued in Rhode Island, and Hiram Leonard, a
resident of Massachusetts, and who was indebted to the
Lippitt Woolen Company, was made a garnishee. Pending

KING v. CROSS.'
Statement of the Case.

these proceedings the assignee sold the claim against the
Lippitt Woolen Company and one zigainst another corporation to Theophilus King, a resident of Massachusetts, and he
was substituted as plaintiff in the action in Massachusetts
above referred to. The Lippitt Woolen Company pleaded
the pendency of the trustee process against it in the Rhode
Island court. The Massachusetts court entered judgment in
favor of the plaintiff King and against the Lippitt Woolen
Company and the garnishee Leonard. The court, however,
directed that execution on the judgment be stayed and the
parties enter into a stipulation that -no execution should issue
until the proceedings in the Rhode Island action had been
fully determined. Thereupon King was, allowed; by the
Rhode Island court, to become a party to the action there
pending so far as necessary to enable him to assert his title
to the indebtedness due by the Lippitt Woolen Company and
other corporations to the firm of Brown, Steese & Clarke,
which debts were covered by the trustee process previously
issued in Rhode Island under the circumstances already
stated.
In the Rhode Island court both King and the Lippitt Woolen
Company pleaded the proceedings under the insolvent laws of
Massachusetts, the sale by the assignee to King and the judgment of the court in Massachusetts, heretofore referred to,
and asserted that thereby the title to the indebtedness due
by the 'Lippitt Woolen Company to Brown, Stees6 & Clarke
passed to King, .and that such title was superior to any lien
supposed tb have arisen from, the trustee process which had
been issued in the Rhode Island action. The court gave
judgment in favor of th'e plaintiff Cross, charging the Lippitt
Woolen' Company for the amount of the debt due by that
corporation to the firm of Brown, Steese & Clarke, as stated
in the answer of .the Lippitt Woolen Company to the trustee
proceedings. The court therefore rejected the claim of.title
preferred by King, and acquired by him in the insolvency proceedings in Massachusetts, and in effect decided that the trustee
process in Rhode Island operated to create a paramnount lien
on the debt. due by the Lippitt Woolen -Company, and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

unaffected by the insolvency proceedings in Massachusetts
and the action taken on the subject in the courts of that
State. Motions for a new trial upon numerous grounds were
filed on behalf of the Lippitt Woolen Company and the claimant King. These motions were heard before the Appellate
Division of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, and that
court overruled them. 19 R. I. 220. The case was then
brought to this court by writ of error. In substance, the
grounds relied on in this court for a reversal are, that at
the time of the service of the trustee process the Rhode
Island court was wholly wanting in jurisdiction over the
defendants in the action, residents of Massachusetts, and over
their property, and that by charging the Lippitt Woolen Company as trustee- for the benefit of the plaintiff Cross, the tribunal last mentioned failed to give full faith and credit to the
judicial proceedings in the insolvency court in Massachusetts.
-Yr'. Charles E. Hanson for plaintiffs in error. .Ah. John C.
Coombs and .?. Robert I. Burbank were on his brief.
.Ar. William R. Tillinghast for defendant in error. 2..
James Tillinghast was on his brief.
-Mm. JuSTiCE WrTE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion-of the court.

It is first asserted that the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Rhode Island was not due process of law, and
was in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, because it recognized the right,
in a suit brought in Rhode Island against a non-resident defendant, to garnishee the resident debtor of such defendant. It is
contended that a judgment rendered by. a court against a
defendant who'is neither within its jurisdiction, by his person
or his property, is wholly void, and any attempt to enforce such
judgment amounts to a denial of due process of law. The
Rhode Island court, it is claimed, had no jurisdiction over the
defendant firm because it was aresident of M assachusetts, and

XIIG v. CROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

it is asserted that such court had no property of the firm
within its control upon which to exercise its jurisdiction. True
it is the Lippitt Woolen Company, which alone was charged
by the judgment, was made a trustee under the Rhode Island
process, and was indebted to the Massachusetts firm; but this
fact, it is asserted, did not establish that there was any right
in Rhode Island to be subjected to the jurisdiction of the courts
of that State, for the following reasons: The situs of. movable
property is at the domicil of the owner of such property, and
therefore the situs of the claim or credit held by the Massachusetts firm. against the Lippitt Woolen Company was not in
Rhode Island, where the Lippitt Woolen Company was resident, but was in Massachusetts, where the creditor firm was
established. The contention in substance is that any process
of foreign attachment predicated .upon the assumed right to
levy on debts due to non-residents by persons within the State
wherein the process issues is absolutely void, hence a denial of
due process of law.
We need not enter into a review of the contentions thus presented, since they were all considered by this court at its last
term and held to be untenable. Chicago, Bock -IsZand &c.
Railway v. Sturm, 174: U. S. 710.
Conceding, however, as a general rule, that jurisdiction as
to a non-resident can be acquired by trustee or garnishment
process against a resident debtor of a non-resident defendant,
it is urged that the facts in this case cause it to be an exception to this general priiciple. The proceedings in involuntary
insolvency were begun in Massachusetts before the commencement of the suit in Rhode Island. The legal effect of the
insolvency proceedings, it is asserted, was to vest all the
credits of the insolvent in the court of insolvency of Massachusetts, and therefore there could legally be no debt due to
the non-resident insolvent in Rhode Island, because that debt
by operation of the Massachusetts insolvent proceedings had
ceased to be a debt due the firm, and had become a debt controlled by the Massachusetts insolvent court. The debt in
Rhode Island originally due to the firm in Massachusetts can
not, it is claimed,. be treated as continuing after the insolvency

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings to be due to the firm without refusing to give
effect to the proceedings in Massachusetts, and such refusal is
therefore asserted to be the necessary result of the judgment
of the court of Rhode Island which is before us foi review.
The contention thus relied upon, it is argued, is not contrary
to the settled rule that insolvency proceedings of the several
States do not have extra-territorial operation; and it is also
asserted that the claim here relied upon is not contrary to
the decision of this court in Security Trust Co. v. Dodd,
_ead & Co., 173 U. S. 624. In that case it was held that
a general assignment for the benefit of 6-editors, made by
an insolvent under the.insolvent laws of a State, did not
operate to exempt tangible property, situated at the time of
the insolvent assignment in another State, from seizure in the
State where the tangible property was actually situated. This
decision, it is claimed, was but an exemplification of the general rule limiting insolvency proceedings of one State to the
jurisdiction of that State and depriving them of extra-territorial operation. A mere credit, however, it is asserted, conceding it to be subject to attachment or trustee process at the
residence of the debtor, is governed by a different rule from
that which controls tangible property. Such credit, the claim
is, being at the situs of the domicil of the creditor, passes to
the custody of the insolvent court when the insolvent law so
provides, and therefore comes under the dominion and control
of the insolvent court having jurisdiction of the person of the
creditor. As by operation of law the credit from the date of
insolvency proceedings at the residence of the creditor ceases
to be under his dominion, but, on the contrary, is in-gr.emio
legis, the power to levy by garnishee or trustee process on the
same at the residence of the debtor is destroyed. But the
predicate upon which this contention rests is that the Mlassachusetts insolvent proceedings operated to deprive the insolvent of all control over his assets prior to or at the time when
the suit in Rhode Island was commenced and the trustee
process there issued. If this premise is unsound the whole
contention is without merit, and therefore the legal proposition deduced from it need not be examined.

KIG v. CROSS.,
Opinion of the Court.

The statutes of the State of Massachusetts on the subject
of insolvency provide: First, for the adjudication by the 'judge
of the court of insolvency upon a voluntary petition; second,
for the issue of a warrant for the sequestration of the effects
of a petitioning debtor; third, for publication of a notice of
the issue of this warrant; fourth, for a meeting 'of-creditors
and the election of an assignee; and, fifth, for an assignment
by the judge of the court of insolvency to the assignee so
elected. Mass. Pub. Stat. 1882, ch. 157, % 16, 17, 24, 40, 44.
The forty-sixth section of the act which provides'when proceedings under it shall operate to divest the debtor of control
over his pr6perty is reproduced in the margin.'
N'ow the petition in insolvency on behalf of the firm of
Brown, Steese & Clarke was filed in the court of insolvency
on August 12, 1889, a day prior to the commencement by
Cross of his action in Rhode Island and the s6rvice of the
trustee process. The warrant, however, addressed by the Massachusetts insolvent court to the sheriff, directing him as messenger, to take possession of the estate of the insolvent, was
not issued until August 21, 1889, the first publication of notice
of the issue of such warrant was made on August 23, 188.9, and
1"1 Sec. 46. The assignment shall vest in the assignee all the property of
the debtor, real and personal, which he could have lawfully sold, assigned
or conveyed,-or which might have been taken on execution upon a judgment against him, at the time of the first publication of the notice of issuIng the warrant in case of voluntary proceedings, and at the time of the
first publication of notice of the filing of the petition in cases of involuntary proceedings, and shall be effectual, subject to the provisions of the following section, to dissolve any attachment on mesne process made not more
than four months prior to the time of the first publication aforesaid.
The assignment shall vest in the assignee all debts due to the debtor or any
person for his use, and all liens and securities therefor, and all his rights of
action for goods or estate, real or personal, and all his rights of redeeming
such goods or estate. The assignee may redeem all mortgages, conditional
contracts, pledges, and liens of or upon any goods or estate of the debtor,
or sell the same subject to such mortgage or other incumbrance, and if a
mortgage is foreclosed, pending proceedings in insolvency, and before the
appointment of an assignee, or within sixty days thereafter, the assignee,
when appointed, may redeem the same at any time within sixty days after
the appointment, with remedies similar to those provided by law for the
redemption of mortgages before foreclosure."
voL. CLXX-26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the assignment to the assignees elected by the creditors was
made by the judge of the insolvency court on September 4,1889.
The first question presented then is: At what date was the firm
of Brown,.Steese & Clarke, by force of the insolvent laws of
Massachusetts, divested of the title apd control of their personal property, tangible and intangible? If the Massachusetts
insolvent law did not, from the mere fact of filing the petition
of insolvency, operate to divest the insolvent of all control of
his credits, it is obvious that such control existed in the creditor when the suit was begun in Rhode Island, for the only
step taken in the Massachusetts proceedings prior to the commencement of the suit in Rhode Island was the filing of the
petition in insolvency. Every other step in the insolvency
was taken after the Rhode Island suit was begun, an'r the
trustee process there levied. Now the text of the Massachusetts statute clearly provides that "the assignment shall vest
in the assignee all the property of the debtor, real and personal, which he could have lawfully s.old, assigned or conveyed,
or which might have been taken on execution upon a judgment against him, at the time of the first publication of the
notice of issuing the warrant in case of voluntary proceedings."
The decisions of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
leave no doubt that up to the first publication of notice of the
issuing of the warrant the insolvency proceedings do not divest
the insolvent of all control of his assets and credit. We
premise, however, before reviewing these decisions, that the portions of the present insolvent statutes of Massachusetts, as contained in chapter 157 of the Public Statutes of 1882, so far as
they bear upon the question now under consideration, substantially reproduce the provisions of chapter 163 of the statutes
of 1838. We place in the margin a portion of section 5 of the
latter act, which, it will be seen, declares the effect of a formal
assignment by the judge of the court of insolvency in practically similar language to that contained in seqtion 46 of chapter 157 of the Public Statutes of 1882, already referred to.'
1 " SEC. 5. The said judge shall, by an instrument under his hand and
seal, assign and convey to the person or persons chosen or appointed assignees as aforesaid, all the estate, real and personal, of the debtor, excepting

KING v. CROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

Under the statute of 1838, it was early settled in Massachusetts that the property of an insolvent debtor was not to
be regarded as in the custody of the law until the publication
of the first notice of the issuance of the warrant, and that
until such time the insolvent might bona fide transfer his
property, and that it was subject to seizure under judicial
process. Thus, in B'igg8 v. Parkman, (1841) 2 Met. 258, it
was held that an assignment, under the statute of 1838, vested
in the assignee only the property which the debtor had at the
time of the first publication of the notice of the issuing of
the warrant against him. In 1842, in Jtudd v. Zves, 4 Met.
401, on a petition of Judd, an insolvent debtor, asking that
proceedings be set aside which had been instituted before a
master in chancery under Stat. 1838, c. -163, in considering
the question whether the United States bankrupt act which
went into operation on the 1st of February, 1842, superseded
or suspended the insolvency proceedings referred to, the court,
at page 402, said (italics ours):
"But we are nevertheless of opinion, that this consequence
of the act is limited to cases instituted under the insolvent
law subsequent to the period when the bankrupt law went
into operation, and that it cannot supersede or suspend proceedings rightfully commenced under the insolvent act, prior
to the time of its going into operation. The counsel for the
such as may be by law exempted from attachment, with all his deeds7, books
and papers relating thereto; which assignment shall vest in the assignees
all the property of the debtor, both real and personal, which he could by
any way or means have lawfully sold, assigned or conveyed, or which might
have been taken in execution on any judgment against him, at the time of
the first publication of the notice of issuing the above mentioned warrant,
although the same may then be attached on mesne process as the property
of the said debtor; and such a:signmeht shall be effectual to pass all theL
said estate, and dissolve any such attachment; and the said assignment
shall also vest in the said assignees all debts due to the debtor, or to any
person for his use, and all liens and securities therefor, and all his rights
of action for any goods or estate, real or personal, and all his rights of
redeeming any such go ds or estate; and the assignees shall have power to
redeem all mortgages, conditional contracts, pledges and liens, of or upon
any goods or estate of the debtor, or to sell the same, subject to such mort. '
gage or other incumbrance ..

404

OCTOBER TERAI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

petitioner admits that it could not, if the property of the
insolvent had been actually assigned prior to the first of
February, when the bankrupt law went into operation; but
he contends, that as the assignment in this case was not
actually made until the 7th of February, the whole proceedings were suspended or superseded. Upon consideration, we
are of opinion that the proceedings under the commission are
not to be thus separated, but that they are to be treated as
the parts of one whole; that the assignment not only relates
back to the jRrst publication of the notice, and vests all the
property of the debtor, both real and personal, in the assignee,
but that the debtor is divested of his property, before such
assignment, by virtue of the warrant to the messenger and
the taking of the property of the debtor into custody, by
force of which a qualified property in the estate vests in the
messenger, insomuch that no act of the debtor, after the due
service andpublication of the warrant,can be lawfully done
to make any transfer of his property, or to affect the rights
of any of his creditors: That the property is, by the act of
publication, placed in the custody of the law, in the person
of the messenger; and that the judge or master alone can
dispose of the same, by the appointment of an assignee to
receive it, or by dissolving the process."
In Clarke v. .Minot, (1842) 4 Met. 346, in the course of the
opinion, the court, in speaking through Chief Justice Shaw,
of the time when under the insolvency laws the insolvent
debtor was divested of control over his assets, said :
"The question then recurs, to what time does this assignment relate back? The statute, sec. 5, thus states it: 'Which
assignment shall vest in the assignee all the property of the
debtor, both real and personal, which he could by any way or
means have lawfully sold, assigned or conveyed, or which
might have been taken on execution on any judgment against
him, at the time of the first publication of the notice.of isguing the above mentioned warrant.' This leads directly to the
inquiry, what is the time of the first publication thus referred
to, and for this we go to the second section. The first section
having provided for the issuing of a warrant to a messenger

KNG v. CROSS.
Opinion of the Court.

to take possession, etc., the second section provides as follows:
' The said messenger shall forthwith give public notice, by
advertisement, in such newspapers as shall be designated by
the judge, and also such personal or other notice to any persons concerned, as the judge shall prescribe.'
"It seems to have been the obvious policy of the statute, to
fix some precise point of time, at which the whole property
and effects of the debtor shall be deemed to have passed from
him, and vested in the assignees. The legislature appear to
have intended that a time should be fixed, before which all
transfers and conveyances of property by the debtor, made in
good faith, and not intended to give preferences, shall be
valid; so of all payments in the ordinary course of business,
and transfers of property, made without the concurrence of
the owner, as by seizure or levy on execution.
"We are now seeking to ascertain and fix the point of time
intended by the statute as the time at which all the property
of the debtor is changed and his power over it suspended;
that point, in other words, prior to which all payments, made
by him or to him, all conveyances (not fraudulent) made by
him, all seizures, levies and extents of execution upon his
property, shall be held valid, and all those, made after, void.
It was competent for the legislature to have fixed any other
time, as, for instance, the application to the judge, or the act
of the judge in issuing the warrant, or the delivery of the
warrant to the messenger. Either of these would have
afforded security to the creditors, but might have unjustly
interfered with the rights of those who had been dealing with
the debtor, in good faith and without notice. The time of
first publication was fixed, obviously because that act would,
in most cases, afford actual notice to those immediately interested; and it was intended as constructive notice to all. But
no such effect can be attributed to personal notice to one
individual."
In Butker v. .Aullen, (1868) 100 Mass. 453, the rulings
above referred to were reiterated. The syllabus of the case
is as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

"One who has been charged as the trustee of H., by a
judgment in the trustee process, and has paid to the judgment
creditor, on execution, the sum with which he has been so
charged, will not be protected against H.'s assignee in insolvency, if the first publication of the warrant in insolvency
against H. was before the rendition of the judgment in the
trustee process, though he had no actual notice of H.'s insolvency until after payment."
In delivering the opinion of the court, Hoar, J., at page
454, said (italics ours):
"The payment by the defendants upon the judgment against
them as trustees was a valid payment as against Holbrook,
his executors and administrators. (Gen. Sts., c. 142, see. 37.)
But it had no validity against a party whose title intervened
before the judgment against them was rendered, and whose
title was superior to the attachment by which the fund had
been held. Not only does the assignment, when made, relate
back to the first publication of the notice in insolvency, and
vest all the property of the debtor in the assignee, but before
the assignment the debtor is so far divested of his property,
by virtue of the issuing of the warrant, that from tite first
publication no transfer or conveyance of it can be made
which will have any validity against the assignee. Gen. Sts.,
c.'118, sec. 44; Clarke v. .finot, 4 Met. 346; Judd v. Ives,
Ib.401; Edwarcs v. $umner, 4 Cush. 393; Gallup v. Bobinson, 11 Gray, 20."
It-being thus made patent that there is no merit in the
contention thatthe operation of the Massachusetts insolvent
law was to divest the insolvent .of all control over his assets
-from the mere date of the filing of petition in insolvency, but,
on the contrary, that the Massachusetts law only produced
such effect from the time of the first publication of the notice'
of issuing the warrant, it follows, as the levyof the trustee
process in Rhode Island was prior to the first publication of
the warrant, that the whole theory upon which-the argument
in this case proceeds is fallacious. It is therefore unnecessary
to express any opinion on the legal proposition urged upon
our attention on an erroneous conception of the Massachusetts

KING v. CROSS.

407.•

Opinion of the Court.

law. This becomes evident when it is considered that the
case as presented does not involve the power of a Massachusetts court to assert control over a citizen of that State in
order to prevent him from prosecuting in Rhode Island an
attachment levied by him upon property in Rhode Island, in
supposed violation of the laws of Massachusetts. On the contrary, the question here is simply whether a citizen of Rhode
Island was prevented in the courts of his own State from
levying an attachment upon a debt due by a citizen and resident of Rhode Island to a citizen and resident of Massachusetts
because such levy was in conflict with the Massachusetts
insolvent statutes. " And this, although by the statutes of
Massachusetts the debt levi'ed on in Rhode Island by the
citizen of the latter State, if such debt had been situate in
Massachusetts, would have been subject to the disposition and
control of the insolvent.
The foregoing considerations would suffice to dispose of the
case, but for the fact that it is claimed that as by the Massachusetts statute an assignment by the judge of the insolvent
court dissolved attachments made within four months from
the first publication aforesaid, therefore, although the trustee
process in: Rhode Island was issued at a time when the debtor
was not divested of control of the claim, nevertheless, by the
operation of the Massachusetts law upon the Rhode Island
levy, the latter should be dissolved. This contention, however,
but asserts that the Massachusetts insolvent statute had, in
this particular, an extra-territorial operation, and thereby
controlled proceedings validly instituted in Rhode Island.
This, however, is in conflict with the elementary doctrine that
the insolvent statutes of the respective States do not, to the
extent claimed, operate extra-territorially. .ecurity Trust
Co. v. -Dodd,Jiead & Co., supra, and authorities there cited.
Indeed, the fact that the provision of the Massachusetts
statutes retroactively vacating attachments does not control
attachments levied in other States at a time when under the
Massachusetts insolvent law the insolvent had not by operation of law been deprived of the dominion and control over his
credits, is recognized in the courts of Massachusetts. Thus, in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

Lawrence v. Batcheller, (1881) 131 Mass. 504, assignees in
Massachusetts of an insolvent debtor were held not entitled
to recover from a-creditor of such insolvent, though the creditor was a resident and citizen of Massachusetts, the amount of
sums realized through garnishment proceedings in New York,
Alabama and Arkansas against persons who were indebted to
the Massachusetts insolvent. The garnishment proceedings
were instituted before the publication of the warrant, but it
was not until after the adjudication in insolvency, and after
the assignment by the judge of the court of insolvency to the
assignees in insolvency, that the attachment proceedings were
prosecuted to final judgment and the collections were made
under the trustee process. In the course of the opinion,
delivered by Field, J., at pages 506, 508, he said (italics
ours):
"As the attachments were made prior to the time when the
assignment in insolvency took effect, and, having been made in
other States, were not dissolved by the proceedings in insolvency
in this Commonwealth, and were valid by the laws of the
States respectively in which they were- made, they must prevail over the assignment, unless the statutes of the CommonIommonwealth
wealth make a title so acquired by a citizen of the
void or voidable at the election of the assignees in insolvency.
"In the case at bar, the title to the credits attached, which
passed to the assignees by virtue of the proceedings in insolvency, whether it be regarded as a legal or an equitable title,
was a title subject to the attachments. As neither the common
law nor our statutes give any right of action on the facts agreed
in this case, the assigneeg cannot maintain their suit if the
attachments were properly made."
See also Proctor v. Nbational Bank of .the Republic, 152
Mass. 223.

Affirmed.

