OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

may place themselves under the treatment and care of the corporation. To make the agreement was within the discretion
of the Commissioners, and was a fair exercise thereof.
The right reserved in the third section of the charter to
amend; alter or repeal the act leaves full power in Congress
to remedy any abuse of the charter privileges.
Without adverting to any other objections to the maintenance of this suit, it is plain that complainant wholly fails to
set forth a cause of action, and the bill was properly dismissed
by the Court of Appeals, and its decree will, therefore, be

Affirmed.

NILES v. CEDAR POINT CLUB.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 80. Argued November 16,17,1899. -Decided

December 4,1899.

Generally, in public surveys, a meander line is a line which courses the
banks of navigable streams or other navigable waters ; but in this case
it distinctly appears from the field. notes and the plat, that the deputy
surveyor by whom it was surveyed-n 1834 and 1835, and whose acts were
approved by the surveyor general, stopped his surveys at what he called
a marsh, which intervened between the point where he stopped and the
waters of Lake Erie, and thus limited the land which the United States
in 1844, following that survey, patented to the person under whom the
appellant claims, and thus excluded the marsh, leaving to subsequent
measurements the actual determination of the line of separation between
the lands thus patented, and those which the Government did not propose to convey.
One receiving a patent will not ordinarily be heard to insist that by reason
of an error on the part of a surveyor, more land was bought than was
paid for, or than the Government was offering for sale.
This marsh was properly held not to be regarded as land continuously submerged.

Tis controversy is between two claimants to land, one holdiig a patent therefor from the United States and the other
claiming it by virtue of its contiguity to other land for which

NILES v. CEDAR POINT CLUB.
Statement of the Case.

a United States patent was held. A statement of facts was
agreed upon by the parties, and that statement, with some
slight additional testimony, formed the basis of a decree in the
Circuit Court in favor of the plaintiff, which was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals, 54 U. S. App. 668, to review which last
decision this appeal"was taken.
The facts are these: In the years 1834 and 1835 Ambrose
Rice, a deputy. surveyor, surveyed and subdivided into sections
and quarter sections fractional township 9 south, in range 9 east,
and townships 9 and 10 south, in range 10 east, the same being
situated in the northern part of Ohio and adjacent to Lake
Erie. From his field notes, duly certified to the surveyor general of that land district, the latter prepared a correct plat of
the townships, showing the subdivisions thereof, and marking
all the actual survey lines and the corners designated by said
survey. By the field notes and plat certain sections appear to
be fractional, the line on the north being meandered in a general direction from the -northwest to the southeast. The tract
to the north of this line was described as "flag marsh" and
"impassable marsh and water." Paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of said
agreed statement of facts are as follows:
14. Said plat showed the northerly line of the mainland por.
tion of said survey, a line with its intersection of each township
and section line, evidenced by a post placed at such intersection,
as the said line was actually surveyed and marked as shown by
sdid certified field notes, beginning on the west line of section
19, in town 9 south, range 9 east, and thence running in a general easterly and southerly, but meandering and tortuous course
to and across the south line of section 11, in town 10 south,
range 10 east.
"5:. The said plat showed the said line of said survey from the
west line of said township to a point 2 chains easterly from its
intersection of the line between sections 21 and 22 in town 9,
range 9, to be the shore of Maumee Bay; and from that point
southerly and easterly the plat shows this line on the northerly
and easterly sides of fractional sections 22, 27,26 and 25 in town
9, range 9, sections 30, 31 and 32 in town 9, range 10, and sections 4, 9, 10 and 11 in town 10, range 10, to be the boundary

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

of what is called the I flag marsh ' and ' impassable marsh and
water.'
"6. As shown in and upon said original plat, somewhat east
of north from the point where this line of the survey crosses
the north and south quarter line through section twenty-two,
town 9, range 9, and about a mile and a half from it, began an
island called Cedar Island. This extended northerly for more
than half a mile, and then southeasterly to a point opposite the
said line along the northerly side of section 25 in said township.
A short distance southeast of this another island began and
extended southeasterly beyond the north line of section 5, in
town 10, range 10, projected easterly. Then there was a narrow inlet. A third island began on the easterly side of this inlet,
and extended southeasterly almost to what would be the east
line of section 11, town 10, range 10. Between these islands
and the tortuous line above described was the spac.e designated
*'flag marsh ' and ' impassable marsh and water.' No surveyed
lines other than the township lines crossed either the intervening marsh or the islands. The northwestern island was named
' Cedar' and was the largest. The plat showed it as containing
53:83 acres, all in town 9, range 9. The one next east of it was
marked as ' Sandy Island.' The plat showed that 7.52 acres of
it were in town 9, range 9; 28.49 acres in town 9, range 10, and
1.18 acres in town 10, range 10. The southeastern island was
marked as 'Crane Island,' containing 18.38 acres, all in
town 10, ange 10. From the northwest end of Cedar Island to
the southeast end of Crane Island was about nine and one
half miles. Norman Strait separated Cedar and Sandy islands.
Lily Strait lay between Sandy and Crane, and Crane Creek
entered the lake at the east end of Crane Island.
"The field notes on the plat showd that the circumference
of each island was surveyed or meandered. The plat and
marginal field notes also show that the southerly edge of the
'flag marsh,' ' impassable marsh and water ' was surveyed, and
that the lines of the fractional sections southerly of the said
marsh and water were identical with the southerly edge of the
marsh. The computed areas of the fractional sections and of
their respective subdivisions, as shown upon the said plat, con-

NILES v. CEDAR POINT CLUB.
Statement of the Case.

formed to the area included within the said surveyed lines,
and did not nor any thereof include any part of either marsh,
water or islands."
In July, 1844, patents for several of these fractional sections facing on this marsh were issued to Maigaret Bailey,
under whom the appellant claims. The patents each recite
the number of acres granted, and each states that the tract is
a fractional section "according to the official plat of the survey of said lands returned to the General Land Office by the
surveyor general, which said tract has been purchaged by the
said Margaret Bailey."
In 1852 the State of Ohio applied under the Swamp Land
Act of September 28, 1850, c.8, 9 Stat. 519, for several thousand acres of lands within the State, among them these marsh
lands. This application was, so far as these lands are concerned, rejected by the land department, the official minute
on the application being "not swamp and nearly all sold."
In 1881 John B. Marston, under instruction from the General
Land Office, surveyed and subdivided into sections and quarter sections the area marked upon the surveyor general's plat,
above referred to, as "flag marsh" and "impassable marsh
and water." The field notes of this survey were returned to
the General Land Office and approved, and a plat made, as
required. Thereafter the lands thus surveyed and platted
were patented by the United States, and the title so conveyed
passed by subsequent deeds to the plaintiff below, appellee here.
Disclosing the condition of these lands, pardgraphs 16 and 17
of the statement of facts are as follows:
"16. At the time of the making of the survey by Ambrose
Rice the waters of Lake Erie were above their ordinary stage,
and there was more than the usual volume of water standing
upon the land in controversy herein and flowing to and upon
the same from the large bodies of land now in Ottawa, Wood
and Lucas counties, respectively, having their drainage to and
through the said premises in controversy herein.
"17. The general character, description and condition of
the said land surveyed by said Marston was by him correctly
set forth under the title 'General Description' in the field

OCTOBER TER-M, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

notes of the said survey so as aforesaid by him certified to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office.
"That concerning the portion of said survey in town 9 south,
range 9 east, reciting, to wit:
"' The surface of that part of this fractional township, comprised in this survey, is covered with a deep marsh of grass,
canes or reeds, wild rice, etc. Many parts of it, particularly
in the south and west parts, are mown for a kind of coarse
hay. Other parts are filled with bogs and pond holes that do
not dry in summer. It receives the natural drainage from the
woods on the south and west, which, without any well-defined
channel, finds its way across the marsh to the lake. Again,
in heavy gales of wind it is subject to inundations from the
lake, which, upon the subsidence of the gale or change of
direction in the wind, slowly finds its way out again into the
lake.. It is bounded along the lake by a sand beach averaging
1I chain in width and 3 feet in height.'
" That concerning the portion of said survey in town 9
south, range 10 east, reciting, to wit:
"' The surface of this fractional township is covered with a
deep marsh of grass, canes or reeds, wild rice, etc. Much of
the south part can be mown for marsh hay, being 'in a measure
drained by a canal that has been constructed in the township
south. Other parts are filled with bogs and pond holes that
do not dry in summer. It :r~ceives the drainage from woods
-on the south and west, which spreads over the entire surface
and without any positive channel finds its way to the lake.
"'Again the township is subject to inundations from the
lake during heavy gales of wind, which, upon the termination
of the gale or a change in the direction of the wind, slowly
finds its way back into the lake.
"' This fractional township is bounded on the northeast by
Lake Erie; between the lake and the marsh proper is a sand
beach, averaging 3 feet high and 1 chain in width, generally covered with bushes and small trees of oak, poplar, willow
and cottonwood.'
"That concerning the portion of said survey in town 10
south, range 10 east, reciting, to wit-

NILES v. CEDAR POINT CLUB.
Opinion of the Court.
"'The

descripton for this township must necessarily be

similar to that of the two preceding townships. The surface of that part of the township comprised in this survey -is
one large swampy marsh land, generally very wet and boggy.
Its surface is covered with grass, canes, (or joint grass,) wild
rice and such like marsh productions, reaching to a height
of ten or more feet. Some parts, especially on sections 10
and 11, can be pastured, but the larger portion is filled
with bogs and pond holes, connected by narrow and tortuous
channels.
"' It receives the drainage from the woods on the south and
west and is subject to inundations from the lake. On the
prevalence of strong southwest winds this water flows from
the marsh into the lake, and upon the occurrence of northeast
winds the lake floods the marsh. The principal outlets and
inlets are Crane Creek and Ward's Canal. This canal is an
improvement made by C. B. Ward, of Detroit, Michigan, on
section 4, and running across section 5 for the purpose of getting vessels and ship timber from his shipyard on section 5.
It is built without locks and is really only a great ditch. Waterway, 50 feet; depth, 7 feet. The buildings (or sheds) at the
fishing stations 4 and 11 are the only other improvements.
"'A comparison of the survey made by Ambrose Rice in
1834 and 1835 with that made by John B. Marston in 1881
indicates that Sandy and Crane Islands washed somewhat
shoreward during the period intervening between the making
of said respective surveys.'"
Mr. Reny- T.Niles for appellant.
erty was on his brief.
.r.

Xr.Frank C. Dough-

honzas Emery for appellee.

MR. JUSTIOE BREWER, after making the above statement of

the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
But little can be added to the opinion of the Court of
Appeals, whose conclusions we approve. The meander line
VOL. CLXXV-20

OCTOBER TERMf, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

run by surveyor Rice along the northern borders of the tracts
patented to Margaret Bailey may not have been strictly a line
of boundary, Railroad Company v. S&hurmeir, 7 Wall. 272;
Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 380; Rome v. Smith, 159
U. S. 40; but it indicated that there was something which had
stopped the survey, which limited the area of the land which the
United States was proposing to convey, and left to subsequent
measurements the actual determination of the line of separation
between the land conveyed and that which the Government did
not propose to convey. Generally, these meandered lines are
lines which course the banks of navigable streams or other navigable waters. Here, it appears distinctly from the field notes
and the plat that the surveyor, Rice, stopped his surveys at
this "marsh" as he called it. These surveys were approved
and a plat prepared, which was based upon the surveys and
field notes, and showed the limits of the tracts which were
for sale. The patents, referring in terms to the survey and
plat, clearly disclose that the Government was not intending
to and did not convey any land which was a part of the marsh.
"The patent itself does not contain all the particulars of the
survey,.but the grant of the lands is recited to be according
to the official plat of the survey of said lands, returned to the
General Land Office by the surveyor general, thereby adopting the plat as a part of the instrument." Hardin v. Jordan,
supra. In Jameo v. Rowell, 41 Ohio State, 696, 707, the
Supreme Court of Ohio, speaking of these very patents and
this marsh, said: "The 'meander' line along the southerly
border of the marsh was, in fact, intended to be the boundary
line of the fractional sections."
It may be that surveyor Rice erred in not extending his
surveys into this marsh, but his error does not enlarge the
title conveyed by the patents to the surveyed fractional sections. The United States sold only the fractional sections,
received only pay therefor, an amount fixed by the number
of acres conveyed, and one receiving a patent will not ordinarily be heard to insist that by reason of an error on the
part of the surveyor more land was bought than was paid for,
or than the Government was offering for sale.

NILES v. CEDAR POINT CLUB.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be true that under his contract, the requirements of
the statute and the regulations of the land department, Rice
should have extended his surveys to the shores of Lake Erie,
but he did not do it; he stopped at the borders of this marsh,
and the land department in effect approved his action. He
evidently thought that the marsh was to be treated as a body
of water, a conclusion not unwarranted in view of the finding
of excessive high water at that time, but a conclusion which
other findings show was not correct. And it may be remarked.
in passing that the letter of the statute would not limit the
surveys to the shores of the lake, for section 2395 Rev. Stat.
declares that surveys shall be by running lines at right angles
"so as to form townships of six miles square, unless where the
line of an Indian reservation or of tracts of land heretofore
surveyed or patented, or the course of navigable rivers, may
render this impracticable; and in that case this rule must be
departed from no further than such particular circumstances
require."
But Lake Erie is not an Indian reservation, nor a tract of
land heretofore surveyed and patented, nor a navigable river.
It is true section 2396, which provides how the boundaries
and contents of the several sections, half sections audquarter
sections of the public lands of the United States shall be astertained, says, after stating the rule where all the corners are
established, that "in those portions of the fractional townships
where no such opposite corresponding corners have been or can
be fixed, the boundary lines shall be ascertained by running
from the established corners due north and south or east and
west lines, as the case may be, to the water course, Indian
boundary line, or other external boundary of such fractional
township."
If this recognizes any other external boundary than that
which is indicated in section 2395, it does not prescribe what
that external boundary shall be; and if the land department
treats either a marsh or a lake as such external boundary, who
can declare that its action is void?
It is impossible to hold that the lower courts erred in the
conclusion that this marsh was not to be regarded as land

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

continuously submerged, either under Lake Erie, a navigable
lake, and in that case belonging to the State of Ohio, Pollard
v. Hagan, 3 How. 212; IFeber v. Harbor Commissioners, 18
Wall. 57; _fcCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391, or under a
pond or other similar body of non-navigable inland waters,
and therefore generally the property of riparian owners. It
was called a marsh by Rice, the first surveyor, is so styled on
the plat, and the conditions as disclosed by the agreed statement indicate that it was a body of low swampy land, partly
boggy and partly dry, sometimes subject to inundations from
Lake Erie or the overflow of the adjacent streams, but not
permanently covered with water.
Of course, if the fractional sections patented to Margaret
Bailey did not border on some body of water there were no
riparian rights, and if the conclusion of the trial court that
this marsh was land (for swamp and boggy land is to 'be
treated as land) was correct, then whatever changes may have
come to the marsh -whether it became more or less subject
to overflow -would not alter the fact that the rights of
Margaret Bailey, the patentee, were limited to the very
lands -which were conveyed to her, and for which she paid,
and did not extend over the meander line into the territory north..
But, it is urged, that the fact that a meandered line was
run amounts to a determination by the land department that
the surveyed fractional sections bordered upon a body of
water, navigable or non-navigable', and that, therefore, the
purchaser of these fractional sections was entitled to riparian
rights; and this in face of the express declaration of the field
notes and plat, that that which was lying beyond the surveyed
sections was "flag marsh," or "impassable marsh and water."
But there is no such magic in a meandered line. All that can
be said of it is that it is an irregular line which bounds a body
of land, and beyond that boundary there may be found forest
or prairie, land or water, Government or Indian reservation.
With respect to the contention that the character of this
marsh, as it was found to have been, shows that it should
have passed to the State of Ohio under the Swamp Land Act,

NEW ORLEANS v. STEMPEL.

809'

Syllabus.

it is enough to say that the State of Ohio applied for it as such,
that the application was denied, that this denial was made in
1852, that the land was never patented to the State, and without such patent no fee ever passed, Xihigan .and and .Lumber Co. v. .ust, 168 U. S. 589, that subsequently the land

department treated it as land subject to its control, as public
land of the United States, had it surveyed, sold and patented.
Whatever claims the State of Ohio may have cannot be liti-

gated in this suit. The legal title passed by the patent to the
appellee's grantors, and that title is certainly good'as against
a stranger with no equities.
We see no error in the decree, and it is

Aflirmed.

NEW ORLEANS v. STEMPEL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 65. Argued October 25, 1899.-Decided December 4,1899.

Section 7 of Chapter 106 of the Louisiana Statutes of 1890, after declaring
" that it is made the duty of the tax assessors throughout the State to
place upon the assessment list all property subject to taxation," contained the following provision: "This shall apply with equal force to
any person or persons representing in this State business interests that
may claim a domicil elsewhere, the intent and purpose being that no
non-resident, either by himself or through any agent, shall transact business here without paying to the State a corresponding tax with that
exacted of its own citizens; and all bills receivable, obligations or
credits arising from the business done in this State are hereby declared
'assessable within this State, and at the business domicil of said nonresident, his agent or representative." The defendant in error who was
domiciled in the city of New York was the owner of credits which were
evidenced by notes largely secured by mortgages on real estate in New
Orleans; and these notes and mortgages were in the city of New Orleans,
In possession of an agent of the defendant in error, who collected the
interest and principal as it became due and deposited the same in a bank
in New Orleans to her credit. Held, that under the act of 1890, as interpreted by the Supreme Court of the State, this property in the hands of

