OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

mination with the same power and authority as if it had been
brought here by appeal or writ of error.
It was early held under that act, 2.fcfiisk v. Roff, 141 U. S.
661, that appeals or writs of error in cases in which the jurisdiction of the court was in issue could only be taken directly
to this court after final judgment; and subsequently in United
States v. Rider, 163 U. S. 132, that review by appeal, writ
of error, or otherwise, must be as prescribed by that act, and
that the use of certificate was limited by it to the certificate
by the courts below, after final judgment, of questions made
as to their own jurisdiction, and to the certificate by the
Circuit Courts of Appeals of questions of law in relation to
which the advice of this court was sought as therein provided. We there held that the nct of March 3, 1891, covered
the whole subject-matter, and furnished the exclusive rule in
respect of appellate jurisdiction, on appeal, writ of error or
certificate.
The bankruptcy act has made no change in this regard, and
as this case has not gone to judgment, the certificate must be
.Dimissed.

CUMMING v. RICHMOiND COUNTY BOARD OF
EDUCATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF RICHMOND COUNTM,

GEORGIA.

No. 164. Argued October 80, 1899.-Decided December 18, 1699.

The plaintiffs in error complained that the Board of Education used the
funds in its hands to assist in maintaining a high school for white children, without providing a similar school for colored children. The substantial relief asked for was an injunction. The state court did not deem
the action of the Board of Education in suspending temporarily and for
economic reasons the high school for colored children a sufficient reason
why the defendant should be restrained by injunction from maintaining
an existing high school for white children. It rejected the suggestion
that the Board proceeded in bad faith or had abused the discretion with
which it was iuvested by the statute under which it proceeded, or had

CUMIING v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.

.120

Statement of the Case.
.acted in hostility to the colored race. Held that under the circumstances
disclosed, this court could not say that this action of the state court
was, within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, a denial by the
State to the plaintiffs and to those associated with them, of the equal pro.'
tection of the laws, or of any privileges belonging to them as citizens, ol'
the United States.
While all admit that the benefits and burdens of public taxation must, be
shared by citizens without discrimination against any class on, account
of their race, the education of the people in schools maintained by state
taxation is a matter belonging to the respective States, and any interference on the part of Federal authority with the management of such
schools cannot be justified except in the case of a clear and unmistakable disregard of rights secured by the -supreme law of the land.

THB plaiitiffs in error, Cumming, Harper and Ladeveze,
citizens of Georgia and persons of color suing on behalf of
themselves and all others in like case joining with them,
brought this action against the Board of Education of Richmond County and Charles S. Bohler, tax collector.
In the petition filed by them it was alleged That the plaintiffs were residents, property owners and taxpayers of Richmond County, the defendant Board being a
corporation created under an act of the General Assembly of
Georgia of August 23, 1872, regulating public instruction in
that county, empowering the Board to annually levy such tax
as it deemed necessary for public school purposes;
That on the 10th of July, 1897, the Board levied for that
year for the support of primary, intermediate, grammar and
high schools in the county, a tax of $45,000, which was then
due and being collected;
That the petitioners interposed no objections to so much of
the tax as was for primary, intermediate and grammar schools,
but the tax for the support of the system of high schools was
illegal and void for the reason that that system was for the
use and benefit of the white population exclusively;
That the Board was not authorized by law to levy any tax
for the support of a system of high schools in which the colored school population of the county .were not given the same
educational facilities as were furnished the white school population;
That at least $4500 of the tax of $45,000 was being colVOL. CLXXV-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

lected and when collected would be used for the support of
such system of high schools;
That the Board had on hand the sum of $20,000 or other
large sum, the proceeds of prior tax levies, in trust to disburse
solely for legal educational purposes in the county, and would
receive from the tax levy of 1897 and from other sources large
sums ill like trust, and that it was the owner and had the custody and control of school fixtures, furniture, educational
equipments and appliances generally, holding the same in like
trust ; and,
That although the Board was not authorized by law to use
any part of such funds or property for the support and maintenance of a system of high schools in which the colored
school population were not given the same educational facilities as were furnished for the white school population, it was
using such funds and property in the support and maintenance of its existing high school system, the educational
advantages of which were restricted. wholly to the benefit of
the white school population of Richmond County to the entire
exclusion of the colored school population, and that by such
use of those funds and property a deficiency for educational
purposes would inevitably result, to make which good additional taxation would be required.
'The petitioners also alleged that they were persons of color
and parents of children of school age lawfully entitled to the
full benefit of any system of high schools organized or maintained by the Board ; that up to the time of the said tax levy
and for many years continuously prior thereto, the Board
maintained a system of high schools in Richmond County in
which the colored school population had the same educational
advantages as the white school population, but on July 10,
1897, it withdrew from and denied to the colored school population any participation in the educational facilities of a high
school system in the county and had voted to continue to
deny to that population any admission to or participation in
such educational facilities; and that at the time of such withdrawal and denial the petitioners respectively had children
attending the colored high school then existing, but who were

CUMMING v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.

531

Statement of the Case.

now debarred from participation in the benefits of a public
high school education though petitioners were being taxed
therefor. They averred that the action of the Board of Education was a denial of the equal protection of the laws secured
by the Constitution of the United States, and that it was
inequitable, illegal and unconstitutional for the Board to levy
upon or for the tax collector to collect from them any tax for
the educational purposes of the county, from the benefits of
which the petitioners in the persons of their children of school
age were excluded and debarred.
The petitioners prayed that the tax collector Bohler be
enjoined fr6m collecting so much of the tax levy of July 10,
189 7, as had been levied for the support of said system of high
schools; that the Board be enjoined from using any funds or
property then held by it or thereafter to come into its hands
for educational purposes in the county for the support, maintenance or operation of that system; and that they have such
other and further relief as was equitable and just.
The Board of Education demurred to the petition and also
filed an answer. It denied that it had established any system
of high schools in the county, and averred that it was neither
its duty nor had it authority to establish such a system,
although it had authority in its discretion to establish high
schools at such points in the county as the interest or convenience of the people required; that in pursuance of such authority it had established the Neely High School in 18'76, but in
1878 its name was changed to that of the Tubman High
School, when Mrs. Emily H. Tubman presented to the Board
a large lot and building for the purpose of affording a higher
education to the young women of the county, the Richmond
Academy affording this benefit and advantage to the male
sex; that the demand was urgent for the continuance of the
Tubman school by the Board, and it was so accordingly
determined, each pupil paying fifteen dollars for tuition per
annumn and non-residents of the county forty dollars, which
was the charge made by the Richmond Academy for Boys;
and that the property, the value of which with the fixtures,
furniture and appliances was worth not less than $30,000, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
'Statement of the Case.

donated by Mrs. Tubman upon the express condition that in
the event the Board failed to use the building for a high
school the same was to enure instantly to the benefit of the
Richmond Academy and the. Augusta Free School
That in June, 1876, the Board deemed it wise to give its assistance to the itephzibah High School, conducted and controlled by the Hephzibah Baptist Association in the village of
Hephzibah in the southeastern part of the county, charging
and receiving for high school scholars the sum of fifteen dollars
per annum;
That,. in 1880, there being no high school in the county for
the colored race, the funds of the Board justifying it, and
other schools of lower grade having been established by the
local trustees in Augusta sufficient to accommodate the colored
children, the Board deemed it wise.and proper to establish
the Ware High School, charging for each pupil taught therein
-ten dollars per annum; and
That in June, 1897, a special committee. appointed by the
Board- investigated the status of the high schools in the
county and ascertained the condition of each, and the committee recommended that, for "purely economic reasons in
the education of the negro race," the Ware High School be
discontinued and the City Conference Board requested to open
four primary schools in the same building at a cost of *about
$200 each for the accommodation of those negro children who
were annually denied admittance to the schools.
The answer of the Board further stated: "Touching the
Ware High School, its friends and the colored patrons thereof
were called before the committee, and were heard by the-committee with" every respect and consideration. Their-were told
the reasons that controlled the committee in its intention to
recommend its discontinuance for the present. These were:
Because four hundred or-more of negro children were being
turned away from the primary grades unable to be provided
with seats or teachers-; because the same meanis and the same
building which were used to teach sixty high school pupils
would accommodate two hundred pupils in the rudiments of
education; because the Board at this time was not finan-

CUMMING v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Statement of the Case.

cially able to erect buildings and employ additional teachers
for the large number of colored children who were in need
of primary education, and because there were in the city of
Augusta at this time three public high schools -the Haines
Industrial School, the Walker Baptist Institute and the Payne
Institute -each of which were public to the colored people
and were charging fees no larger than the Board charged for
pupilage in the Ware High School." After stating that the
action of the special committee was approved by the Board,
the answer continued: "At the same time when thi vote was
taken on the report of the Ware High School it was unanimously resolved that the Board of Education reinstate the
said school whenever in their judgment the Board could
afford it. Subsequently to the Board's temporary suspension
of the Ware High School a number of colored people petitioned
the Board for rescission of this action, among whom were the
complainants herein. A full Board was called and convened
on the - day of August, and the petitioners were heard and
their request fully considered. The Board, after a session and
deliberation of over two hours, refused to rescind for the reasons heretofore set out, and said that in their view, until the
local trustees -i.e. the City Conference Board - should have
furnished a sufficiency of primary schools for the colored population it would be unwise and unconscionable to keep up a
high school for sixty pupils and turn away three hundred little
negroes who are asking to be taught their alphabet and to read
and write. No part of the funds of this Board accrued or
accruing and no property appropriated to the education of the
negro race has been taken from them. This Board has only
applied the same means and the same moneys from one grade
of their education to another grade; and in this connection
defendant says that the enrolment in the colored school is this
year 238 more than the last, the Ware High School building
accommodating 188 pupils."
The answer of the Board, referring to the act of 1872,
averred that "section 9 of said act commands the local trustees to provide the same facilities to each race as regards
school houses and fixtures, attainments and abilities of teachers

OCTOBER TERM, 1899Statement of the Case.

and length of term, but that this section refers only to the
schools established by the trustees of each school district
under section 6 of said-act, and does not apply to schools of
higher grade; that section 10 of said act, which empowers
this respondent to establish schools of higher grade than
those established .by the local trustees, ordains their establishment to such as the interest and convenience of the people
may in the judgment of this Board require. It admits that
on the 10th day of July last it suspended the Ware High
School for the -reason that in its judgment the interest and
convenience of the people did not require it, and that it
caused to be established in its stead three primary schools
for colored children, and for reasons heretofore in its answer
set forth. Whether or not the petitioners at the time of said
suspension had children attending the Ware High School this
defendant is not advised, but denies that they are debarred
from a high school education in this community, since for the
same charges as were made by this Board for pupilage in the
Ware High School they can find this education in three other
colored high schools open to the public in the city of Augusta.
Defendants deny the allegations specially pleading that the
acts of 1872 and 1877 deny to th6 colored race equal protection of the law, or that the course and conduct of this Board
thereunder is obnoxious to this constitutional inhibition."
The plaintiffs amended their petition, alleging: "1st. That
'the Payne Institute,' ' the Walker Baptist Institute,' and ' the
Haines Normal and Industrial Institute' mentioned in said
answer, are purely private and pay educational institutions
under sectarian control, and have been in existence for years
past and have no connection and never have had any connection whatsoever with the public school system conducted
by said Board. 2d. That said Board has no legal right to
charge for extending a public high school education to the
children of school age of actual residents of said county. 3d.
That if a deficiency of means exists for extending a public
primary school education to the colored school population of
the city of Augusta in said counjty, said deficiency is due to
the illegal action of said Board in appropriating to the white

CUM=IlG v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.

535

Statement of the Case.

school population of said city largely more of the public school
fund than it is legally entitled to, to the corresponding detriment of the colored school population of said city, and but for
such illegal action there would be no such deficiency as said
Board avers."
In answer to this amended petition, the Board admitted that
the Payne Institute, the Walker Baptist Institute, and the
Haines Normal and Industrial Institute mentioned in its answer were private educational institutions under sectarian control and had no connection with the public school system,
conducted by the defendant Board. But it averred that the
impression sought to be conveyed that there was sectarian,
denominational teaching in those schools was untrue; that the
schools referred to were open to the public generally, and any
child of sufficient scholarship and moral character could enter
them, whatever his or her religious belief. The Board also
asserted its right to charge for tuition in high schools, and
denied that any deficiency of means for extending a public
primary school education to the colored school population was
due to any action it had taken.
The defendant Bohler, the tax collector, demurred to the
petition and also filed an answer.
The cause having been heard upon the demurrers and pleadings, the court sustained the demurrer of defendant Bohler,
and refused to grant any injunction against him as tax collector. But the demurrer of the Board of Education was overruled, and an order was entered restraining the Board from
using "any funds or property now in or hereafter coming into
its hands for educational purposes in said county for the support, maintenance or operation of 'any white high. school in
said county until said Board shall prpvide or establish equal
facilities in high school education as are now maintained by
them fbr white children for such colored children of high
school grade in said county as may desire a high school education or until the further order of the court." This order
was however suspended until the Supreme Court of the State
should render its decision in the cause.
'The plaintiffs did not appeal from the order refusing to

OCTOBER TERMTY1, 1899.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

grant an injunction against the tax collector. But the case
was carried to the Supreme Court of Georgia by the Board
of Education, where the judgment of the Superior Court
of Richmond County was reversed upon the ground that it
erred in granting an injunction against the Board of Education. And in accordance with that decision the Superior
Court upon the return of the cause from the Supreme Court
of the State refused the relief asked by the plaintiffs and
dismissed their petition. The plaintiffs in error complain of
the latter order as being in derogation of their rights under
the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. George F. Edmunds for plaintiffs in error.
I. As construed by the Supreme Court of Georgia, the constitution and laws of that State justified the Board of Education in maintaining, at the expense of the plaintiffs, public
high schools for white children, and in abolishing and refusing to keep up any similar or equivalent school for the education of colored children. The record shows that the colored
high school was necessary for the education of the same class of
colored children as that of the white children, for which two
public high schools were provided. It shows that there was
a sufficient number of colored children receiving the benefits
of the colored high school when it was abolished, and that
their parents protested against its abolition. It shows that
the defendants themselves considered the colored high school
necessary by declaring, in connection with their abolition of
it, that they would reinstate it "whenever the Board, in their
judgment, could afford it.'
II. It may be assumed that the decision of the Georgia
Supreme Court, that the.constitution and laws of that State
warranted the action complained of (whether reviewable here
or not) was correct, although it would seem reasonably clear
that the opinion of the inferior court was the sound one,
unless the constitution and laws of Georgia were designed by
their framers to be illusory.
III. The question, then, is whether the Board of Education,

CUMMEING v. BOARD OF EDUC.TION.

537

Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

under its authority to "establish schools of higher grade at
such points in the county as the interests and convenience of
the people may require," authorized it to establish and maintain the advanced schools for the sole interest of the white
children, and to refuse to maintain a similar school for the
benefit of the colored children, while (though this makes no
difference in principle) the parents of such colored children
were being taxed and their money expended to maintain such
higher grade white schools? Although the first section of
the eighth article of the constitution of Georgia only made
it comvulsory that common schools should be established for
the elementary branches of an English education, and required
the races to be taught separately, the fourth section authorized counties and cities to*tax for public schools, and to maintain them out of such taxation.
It is under this authority
that the public schools in the county of Richmond are carried
on.
This authorizes the counties and cities to go beyond
elementary English education, and to provide, as most civilized States do, for that larger education which teaches not
only reading, writing and arithmetic, but those things which
lead to the enlargement of mental perceptions, respect for
social order, and, indeed, everything that may tend to make
the best state of society. It is under this authority that the
board of education has undertaken to discriminate distinctly
and by name between the two races, and to impose upon one
burdens of taxation from which they and their children receive no benefit, for the purpose of giving educational benefits
necessary to piblic interests, to the white children alone. The
sole pretence for this discrimination is, as expressly stated by
themselves, that they cannot .afford it. That is, that all of
the public funds applicable to education of the higher grade
in the public schools shall be devoted to the benefit of the
white children, and none of it applied for the similar education of colored children. The excuse stated being that the
Board does not wish to increase taxation which they have
the power to impose (then only one fourth of one cent per
$100), and that it can make good use of the money that
would otherwise be expended in support of a colored high

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Mr. Edmunds' Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

school, for the elementary education of some colored children
for which the common school houses at that time furnished
no accommodation. It is not anywhere hinted by the defence
that there were not adequate accommodations for all the white
children, both in the common and high schools; from which
it conclusively follows that the public funds have been devoted to the complete provision for all the white children,
when they had not for the colored children. The Board of
Education was, under the law as construed, the master of all
this. Every provision, therefore, having been made for the
full education of the white children, And inadequate provision
having been made for the elementary education of the colored
children, the Board abolishes the colored high school because
it cannot afford to maintain it. This, it is earnestly submitted,
is not the reasonable exercise of such discretion as the Board
may have lawfully had, or the exercise of any discretion at all.
It is the arbitrary denial of the equal protection of the
laws to these persons of the colored race. It is believed that
all the numerous decisions of this court upon this and analogous subjects are agreeable to the foregoing statement. It
is unnecessary to refer to more than a very few of them.
In Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. Okicago, 166 U. S.
226, it was held that the prohibitions of the Fourteenth
Amendment referred to all the instrumentalities of the State,
legislative, executive and judicial, and that if any public officer under a state Government deprives another of any right
protected by that amendment he violates the Constitution.
In Guy/, Colorado &c. Railroad v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154,
it was declared that constitutional provisions of the character
herein questioned should be liberally construed, and that the
courts should be watchful to guard against any stealthy
encroachments thereon, and that otherwise the protecting
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment would be a mere rope
of sand, in no manner restraining state action. It declared
that classifications and distinctions could not be made arbitrarily. In this case the discrimination was arbitrary, no
matter how good the motive of the Board may possibly have
been. If such action can be upheld, the Board will forever be

CUMMING v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Mr. E dmunds' Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the sole judge of when it can "afford" to give the colored
race the same advantage of public education that they tax
them to give to the whites. If there is really any life or
spirit in the Fourteenth Amendment, such conduct cannot be
upheld. In Yio7 Iro v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, this court
said that, in spite of what the state court might have thought
about it, it would put upon the ordinances of San Francisco
an independent construction, and determine whether the proceedings under them were in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States or not. In that case the ordinance vested
in a board of supervisors the discretion of granting or withholding their assent to the use of wooden buildings as laundries, and so forth. The state court held that that was a
discretion not judicially reviewable. This court denied the
proposition, and held that while the ordinance gave absolute
power to the board, the power was not confided to it as a discretion of regulation, but was to be exercised at their mere
will, and that, so construed, it could not be maintained when
exercised so as to produce inequality. This court held that
the Fourteenth Amendment required "not only that there
should be no arbitrary deprivation of life or liberty, or arbitrary spoliation of property, but that equal protection and security should be given to all under like circumstances in the
enjoyment of their personal and civil rights;" and that "no
greater burdens should be laid upon one than are laid upon
others in the same calling and condition." This court held
that the principles upon which our Constitution rests do not
"mean to leave room for the play and action of purely personal and arbitrary power." And it held that where the law
gives a discretion, that discretion cannot be used, under color
of regulating, to subvert or injuriously restrain a right, and
that such questions are always open to judicial inquiry. To
use the language of this court in that case, the Board has, in
the exercise of its authority, applied and administered the law
with "an unequal hand, so as practically to make unjust and
unethical discriminations between persons in similar circumstances, material to their rights;" and that in such case "the
denial of equal justice is still within the prohibitions of the

OCTOBER TER-M, 1899.
Air. Edmunds' Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Constitution." The case of Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S.
537, chiefly relied upon by the other side, is entirely consistent with and supports our contention. The case itself determined that a state law requiring separate railway carriages
for the two races was valid, if provision were made for equal
accommodations for both races, and the case stood upon the
solid and indisputable ground that neither race was discriminated against in any particular, and it quoted with approval
the opinion of the Court of Appeals of New York, that
"when the Government, therefore, has secured to each of its
citizens equal rights before the law. and equal opportunities
for improvement and progress, it has accomplished the end
for which it was organized," and so forth. In Str&uder v. West
Virginia, 100 U. S. 303, this court held that the Fourteenth
Amendment "was designed to assure to the colored race the
enjbyment of all the civil rights that under the law are
enjoyed by white persons, and to give to that race the protection of the General Government in that enjoyment whenever it shall be denied by the States." The court further said
that the words of the amendment, while prohibitory, "contained by necessary implication a positive immunity of right,
most valuable to the colored rhce - the right, to exemption
from unfriendly legislation against- them distinctively as colored-the exemption from legal discriminations implying
inferiority in civil society, lessening the security of their rights
which others enjoy," and so forth.
IV. It will thus be seen that the fact that the school Board
had authority to establish and maintain public high schools at
convenient places, and so forth, gives them no authority to
establish and maintain public high schools for one race and to
refuse to maintain them for the other, when the conditions
and necessities for that advanced education existed in one
race as well as the other in the place where their authority
was to be exercised. These necessities and conditions are by
the evidence of the board itself proved to exist.
The necessity for the public high schools for the colored
children is, I repeat, distinctly confessed, and the only pretence
of excuse for abolishing it, as stated by the Board itself, was

CUMMING v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Opinion of the Court.

that it could employ the money necessary for its maintenance
more advantageously by devoting it to common school purposes, while it could continue to employ all the money necessary to carry on the two white high schools in the same place.
The mere statement of the case, in view of what this court
has already decided, condemns such conduct, no matter bow
good the motive or how ethically wise the action of the Board
may have been had it not been restrained by the fundamental
provisions of the Constitution, although it is.not by any means
admitted that the motive of the Board was purely in the public
interest further than to avoid raising taxes to carry on the colored schools as well as the white ones, and although it is denied
that the action was ethically wise.
V. In respect of the contention stated in the brief on the
other side that Bohler, the tax collector, should have been
made a party to this writ of error, it is sufficient to say that
the petition as to him was dismissed by the Superior Court at
the hearing, and that no appeal was taken by the petitioners.
And it appears that when the case was remitted from the
Supreme Court of Georgia that only the Board of Education
had judgment for its costs, Bohler having disappeared, as before
stated. And it further appears that it was only the Board of
Education that took exceptions and carried the cause to the
Supreme Court of the State. The whole relief sought against
Bohler was denied, and the petitioners acquiesced. Bohler
therefore ceased to be any longer interested in the cause or a
party thereto. His presence as a party was not in any respect
essential or proper for that part of the controversy remaining.
It may be said with all respect to the learned counsel on the
other side that his point as to parties is an imaginary technicality, even if the record does not show a formal dismissal of
Bohler. See Gumlel v. Pitinet ale, 113 U. S. 545.
r.. Josepl Ganahl and Mr. Frank 1T Miller for defendant
inerror.
MR. JusTIcE IHFARLA, after stating the facts as above, delivered the opinion of the court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

This writ of error brings up for review a final order made

in the Superior Court of Richmond County, Georgia, in conformity to a judgment rendered in the Supreme Court of the
State. That order, it is contended, deprived the plaintiffs in
error of rights secured to them by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The Supreme Court of Georgia after stating in its opinion
that counsel for the petitioners did not point out in his brief
-what particular paragraph of the Fourteenth Amendment
was violated, said: "If it be the first, he does not point out
what clause of that paragraph is violated, whether the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States are
abridged, whether his clients are deprived of life, liberty or
property without due process of law, or whether his clients are
denied the equal protection of the laws. It is difficult, therefore, for us to determine whether this amendment has been
violated. If any authority had been cited, we could from
that have determined which paragraph or 6lause counsel
relied upon, but as he has left us in the dark we can only say
that in our opinion none of the clauses of any of the paragraphs of the amendment, under the facts disclosed by the
record, are violated by the Board. There is no complaint in
the petition that there is any discrimination made in regard
to the free common schools of the county. So far as the
record discloses, both races have the same facilities and privileges of attending them. The only complaint is that these
plaintiffs, being taxpayers, are debarred the privilege of sending their children to a high school which is not a free school,
but one where tuition is charged, and that a portion of the
school fund, raised by taxation, is appropriated to sustain
white-high schools to which negroes are not admitted. We
think we have shown that it was in the discretion of the Board
to establish high schools. It being in their discretion, they
could, without a violation of the law or of any constitution,
devote a portion of the taxes collected for school purposes to
the support of this high school for white girls and to assist a
county denominational high school for boys. In our opinion;
it is impracticable to distribute taxes equally. The appropri-

CUMMING v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Opinion of the Court.

ation of a portion of the taxes for a white girls' high school is
not more discrimination against these colored plaintiffs than
it is against many white people in the county. A taxpayer
who has boys and no girls of a school age has as much right
to complain of the unequal distribution of the taxes to a girls'
high school as have these plaintiffs. The action of the Board
appears to fis to be more a discrimination as to sex than it
does as to race. While the Board appropriates some money
to assist a denominational school for white boys and girls, it
has never established a high school for white boys, and, if the
contention of these plaintiffs is correct, white parents who
have boys old enough to attend a high school have as much
right to complain as these plaintiffs, if they have not more.
Without, therefore, going into an analysis of the different
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States, we content ourselves by saying that, in our
opinion, the action of the Board did not violate any of the provisions of that amendment. It does not abridge the privileges
or immunities of citizens of the United States, nor does it
deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law, nor does it deny to any person within the
State the equal protection of its laws."
The constitution of Georgia provides: "There shall be a
thorough system of common schools for the education of children in the elementary branches of an English education
only, as nearly uniform as practicable, the expenses of which
shall be provided for by taxation or otherwise. The schools
shall be free to all children of the State, but separate
schools shall be provided for the white and colored races."
Art. 8, ยง 1.
It was said at the argument that the vice in the common
school system of Georgia was the requirement that the white
and colored children of the State be educated in separate
schools. But vwe need not consider that question in this case.
No such issue was made in the pleadings. Indeed, the plain*tiffs distinctly state that they have no objection to the tax
in question so far as levied for the support of primary, intermediate and grammar schools, in the management of which

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

the rule as to the separation of races is enforced. We must
dispose of the case as it is presented by the record.
The plaintiffs in error complain that the Board of Education used the funds in its hands to assist in maintaining a
high school for white children- without providing a similar
school for colored children. The substantial relief asked is
an injunction that would either impair the efficiency of the
high school provided for white children or compel the Board
to close it. But if that were done, the result would only be
to take from white children educational privileges enjoyed by
them, without giving to colored children additional opportunities for the education furnished in high schools. The colored school children of the county would not be advanced in
the matter of their education by a decree compelling the
defendant Board to cease giving support to a high school
for white children. The Board had before it the question
whether it should maintain, under its control, a high school
for about sixty colored children or withhold the benefits of
education in primary schools from three hundred children of
the same race. It was impossible, the Board believed, to give
educational facilities to the three hundred colored children
who were unprovided for, if it maintained a separate school
for the sixty children who wished to have a high school education. Its decision was in the interest of the greater number
of colored children, leaving the smaller number to obtain a
high school .education. in existing private institutions at an
expense not beyond that incurred in the high school discontinued by the Board.
We are not permitted by the evidence in the record to
regard that decision as having been made with any desire or
purpose on the part of the Board to discriminate against any
of the colored school children of the county on account of
their race. But if it be assumed that the Board erred in supposing that its duty was to provide educational facilities for
the three hundred colored children who were without an
opportunity in primary schools to learn the alphabet and to
read and write, rather than to maintain a school for the benefit of the sixty colored children who wished to attend a high

CUM ING v. BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Opinion of the Court.

school, that was not an error which a court of equity should
attempt to remedy by an injunction that would compel the
Board to withhold all assistance from the high school main-

tained for white children. If, in some appropriate proceeding
instituted directly for that purpose, the plaintiffs had sought
to compel -the Board of Education, out of the funds in its
hands or under its control, to establish and maintain a high
"school
for colored children, and if it appeared that the

Board's

refusal to maintain such a school was in fact an abuse of its

discretion and in hostility to the colored population because
of their race, different questions might have arisen in the
state court.
The state court did not deem the action- of the Board of
Education in suspending temporarily and for economic reasons the high school for colored children a sufficient reason
why the defendant should be restrained by injunction from
maintaining an existing high school for white children. It
rejected the suggestion that the Board proceeded in bad faith
or had abused the discretion with which it wis invested by
the statute under which it proceeded or had acted in hostility
to the colored race. Under the circumstances disclosed, we
cannot say that this action of the state court was, within the
meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment, a denial by the State
to the plaintiffs and to those associated with them of the equal
protection of the laws or of any privileges belonging to them
as citizens of the United States. We may add that while all
admit that the benefits and burdens of public taxation must
be shared by citizens without discrimination against any. class
on account of their race, the education of the people in schools
maintained by state taxation is a matter belonging to the
respective States, and any interference on the part of Federal
authority with the management of such schools cannot be
justified except in the case of a clear and unmistakable disregard of rights secured by the supreme law of the land.
We have here no such case to be determined; and as this
view disposes of the only question which this court has jurisdiction to review and decide, the judgment is
VOL. CLXXV--35

