OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Syllabus.

and fraudulent practices on the part of the said La Abra
Silver Mining Company, or its agents, attorneys or assigns"
- must be answered in the affirmative as to the whole sum
included in the award. That Company placed before the
Commission a state of facts that had no existence, and which
we are constrained by th.e evidence to say its principal representatives must have known had no existence, but which
being credited by the Commission under the evidence adduced
before it brought about the result complained of in the bill.
The whole story of losses accruing to that Company by reason
of wrongs done by the authorities of Mexico, is, under the
evidence, improbable and unfounded. We do not wish to be
understood as saying that the Company did not meet with
losses on account of its investments in this mining property.
But we do adjudge that it had no claim which, upon any
principle of law or equity, it was entitled to assert against
the Republic of Mexico.
The decree below is
A ffrmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument on the facts

and took no part in their consideration. MR. JUSTICE MOKENA
took no part in the decision.

UNITED STATES v. PENA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND

CLATIS.

No. 72. Submitted October 2T, 1899.-Decided December 18, 1699.

The appeal in this case having been allowed within six months after the
receipt by the Attorney General of the statement of the case by the trial
attorney, and the action of the trial attorney having been approved by
one of the justices of the trial court, there is no sufficient reason for
the motion to dismiss, this court having the power under its rules, to
notice plain errors, even when not assigned.
An appeal from the Court of Private Land Claims can be allowed by one of
the Associate Justices of the court.
The grant of lands, in this case, set forth at length in the opinion of the
court, was a grant in severalty, and not one of a single large tract to

UNITED STATES v. PENA.
Opinion of the Court.
.several persons, to be by them held in common, or distributed among
each other.
This grant, having been made after the signing of the treaty of Guadaloupe
Hidalgo, it was not within the power of the alcalde to change it by
directing grants to additional persons, not included in the original grant;
and the whole proceeding may be ignored, except so far as it indicates
those who took title under the original grant, or discloses, those who
were their successors in interest.

THE statement of the case is in the opinion of the court.
.Abr. Attorney General, .Ar. Solicitor General and .Mr.
7iatthew G. 1eynold8 for appellants.
.7k. -EdwardL. Bartlettand .Mr. T. B. Catrom for appellees.
:MR. JUSTICoE BREwEH delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes from the Court of Private Land Claims,
and the first contention of appellees, made on a motion to dismiss the appeal, is that it was not taken in time. The decree
was entered December 1, 1896, and the appeal was not
allowed until April 14, 1898. Section 9 of the act creating
the Court of Private Land Claims, act of March 3, 1891, c.
539, 26 Stat. 854, 858, while giving to either party the right
of appeal within six months from the date of the decision,
also provides that on the rendition of a judgment confirming
any claim it shall be the duty of the attorney of the United
States to notify the Attorney General in writing of the
judgment, giving a clear statement of the case and the points
decided -a statement to be verified by the certificate of the
presiding judge of the court; and also that if the Attorney
General shall not receive such statement within sixty days
next after the rendition of a judgment the right of appeal on
the part of the United States shall continue to exist until six
months next after the receipt of the statement. It appears
in the record, from the certificate of the judge allowing the
appeal, that no such statement was sent to the Attorney
General until March 9, 1898, or received by him until March
25, 1898. So, within the letter of the statute, the time for an
appeal on the part of the United States had not expired.

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

It is also insisted that it is the duty of the United States
attorney to give this notice, and that, therefore, his dereliction
cannot enlarge the time within which the Government must
act if it wishes, to appeal. Can he, it is asked, continue
indefinitely the right of appeal? In the brief filed by the
Government is a'statement of the reasons for the delay in giving the notice, but it is unnecessary for us to-enter into any
examination of the matter. It is enough that it was called to
the attention of one of the justices of the trial court, who has,
by allowing the appeal, approved the action of the attorney.
It is for the party challenging such action to show that it
was wrong.
A third proposition is that no assignment of errors is
annexed to the transcript, as required by sections 997 and
1012 of the Revised Statutes. But this is not sufficient to
compel a dismissal of the appeal. Paragraph 4 of Rule 21 of
this court provides that the court may at its option notice a
plain error not assigned. Ackley SchooZ .District v. Hall,
106 U. S. 428.
A final contention is that the allowance of appeal was not
made by the presiding judge but by one of the associate justices of that court. But the provision of section 9 is that
appeals shall be taken in the same manner and upon the same
conditions as appeals from the judgments of a Circuit Court
of the United States, and by section 999 of the Revised
Statutes any Judge of such court has the power to act. The
rule is different in cases coming from a state court. Javnor
v. NT ew York, 170 U. S. 408.
There is no sufficient reason for sustaining the motion to
dismiss, and it is denied.
Coming now to the merits of the case it is unnecessary, in
view of the contentions of the Government to which alone
we direct our attention, to consider other than two matters,
to the understanding of which a brief statement of facts is
necessary. In 1836 Jose Julian Martinez and others made
application to the ayuntamiento of Ojo Caliente for a tract
of public land, called "the Petaca." That body declared its
opinion that the grant should be made, and thereupon the
governor signed this order:

UNITED STATES v. PENA.
Opinion of the Court.

"SAwTA FA, February25, 183fP.
"Having seen the action of the ayuntamiento of Ojo Caliente of date 22d instant, in which they say there is no objection to granting the applicant and his associates the land
mentioned, the former grantees not possessing now any right
herein, they having abandoned the same, the alcalde of said
place will place those who now apply for the same in possession thereof in the required form and in conformity with
the law on the subject, setting forth the general donation, in
which shall necessarily be stated the boundaries of said possession, and without prejudice to any third party; also binding the grantees to the obligations prescribed by the laws to
acquire title, for which purpose the alcalde shall take charge
of the general document of distribution, which shall be for
the archives, and he shall give testimonios therefrom, as may
be requested of him, on payment of his corresponding fees.
CcPEREZ."

In pursuance of this order the alcalde proceeded to give
juridical possession, and this is the report of his action: "For the years one thousand eight hundred and thirty-six
and eight hundred and thirty-seven.
"At Santa Cruz del Ojo Caliente, jurisdiction of this name,
on the twenty-fifth day of the month of March, one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-six, in compliance with the decree
of the civil and military governor of the Territory of 1ew
Mexico, Alvino Perez, of date February 25th of the same
year, in which he directs me to place in possession the petitioners who have applied for the Petaca tract of land, and as
is set forth in their petition of date .29th of January of the
same year, I proceeded to distribute said land in the presence
of the parties interested, giving to each one of those mentioned in the list one hundred and fifty varas in a direct line,
designating to them as their boundaries on the south the
entrance to the canoncito and lands of Jose Miguel Lucero,
on the north the hill commonly called the Tio Ortiz Hill, on
the east the creek of the aguaje of the Petaca, and on the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

west the boundary of the Vallecito grant, within which limits
the said new grantees were located. Of these I donated only
to citizen Felipe Jaquez from the boundary of Vicente Martin
to that of Eusebio Chaves, the land being a narrow strip and
of little utility; thereupon I donated to citizen Manuel Lujan
two small valleys, which were not measured with the line and
reach to the distribution of the said canoncito, and I donated
to citizen Mariano Pena two small valleys, very narrow, without varying; and, continuing, I donated to citizen Antonio
Eluterrio Ortiz, in the same. canoncito, a small valley, also
without varying; following the same course in the said canoncito, I donated to citizen Jose Francisco Lucero a small
valley, also without varying, and to Jose Antonio Lucero
another small valley, the boundary thereof being on the south
the mouth of the same canoncito, leaving therefor a plaza one
hundred and fifty varas, and fifty for women's gardens and
fifty for ingress and egress, there remaining at the mouth of
the canada de la Dorada, for common watering places, one
hundred and fifty varas in a direct line, which donation I
made in the name of the national -sovereignty, in conformity
with the law on the subject, the grantees mentioned in the
annexed list understanding that the pastures, forests, waters
and watering places are in common, and they were further
informed that he who fails to occupy and cultivate the land
granted within the term of five years, in order to acquire title,
the same cannot be by him sold, exchanged, nor alienated,
nor will he be admitted in a new settlement; and if any
should of their own accord abandon the tract, they remain
informed further that they possess no right, such being the
requirements of law; and being informed of and agreeing
to all this, they received the accepted possession, in virtue of
which they plucked up herbs, leaped, cast stones and shouted
with joy, saying, God be praised, loiug live the nation; long
live the sovereign congress and the law that governs and protects us, and other manifestations of pleasure, by virtue of
which they took possession; and, that it may so appear at
all times, I, under this decree, signed this grant and donation
with all the authority His Excellency was pleased to confer

UNITED STATES v. PENA.
Opinion of the Court.

upon me for the purpose set forth in the above petition and
expressed in said decree attached to the present grant, the
witnesses being the citizens Jesus Maria Barela and Jose
Maria Barela and Jose Francis Lucero, as properly made.
"JosE
"JEsus

ANToNio MARTNEZ.
MARiA BARELA.

"There was given to Juan de Jesus Jaquez from the
boundary of Jose Gabriel Vigil to a pinabete on the north;
valid

.

(Rubric)"

At the close of this follows the list referred to in the
report.
What was the scope and effect of this grant? Obviously
we think to give to each individual named in the list the particuldr tract set apart to him. It was a grant in severalty
and not one of a single large tract to several persons to be by
them held in common or distributed among each other. It
matters not that the petition for this grant was in the name
of only two or three individuals, for it was not an uncommon
thing for one or more to appear as the representatives of a
body or a number of persons. The language of the order of
the governor seems to contemplate a grant in severalty, for
it speaks of "the general donation, in which shall necessarily
be stated the boundaries of said possession." The outer limits
within which the grants are to be made are to be stated, and
within those limits the several grantees are to have their possessions. Again, the provisions that "the alcalde shall take
charge of the general document of distribution" and "give
testimonios therefrom as may be requested," carries the same
suggestion. The alcalde is to take charge of this general document for filing in the archives, but while holding it he is to
give testimonios from it to the several parties who receive
grants within the out-boundary limits.
But whatever doubts might arise from an examination of
the governor's order, if that was the only document to be
considered, the report of the alcalde's proceedings shows
affirmatively that he distributed the lands in the presence

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

of the parties interested, "giving to each one one hundred
and fifty varas in a direct line." He evidently understood
that he was to distribute this land among certain individuals.
He proceeded to do so and gave juridical possession accordingly. Whatever may be thought of his interpretation of the
governor's order, the only juridical possession which is shown
to have been given is juridical possession in severity to the
parties named in the list. The original petitioners were never
put, so far as the record shows, in juridical possession of the
entire tract, and such a grant, if it was so intended, was never
made effective by any juridical possession. We think it more
in consonance with justice and equity to hold, not that the
grant was of an entire tract which never became operative
because of a failure to give juridical possession, but that the
alcalde rightfully understood it as a grant in severalty, and
giving juridical possession vested in the grantees the tracts
of which they were so placed in possession. United States
v. nta F9, 165 U. S. 675; United &ates v. Sandoval, 167
U. S. 278; Rio Ar'riba Land &c. Co. v. United States, 167
U. S. 298.
While the evidence as to the possession subsequent to the
action of the alcalde is not very specific or entirely satisfactory, yet we think it is a fair conclusion that the parties did
go into possession and continued that possession until the cession by the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo. It is very likely,
as suggested, that during the war between Mexico and the
United States the possession was in some respects at least
interrupted, but such interruption cannot be adjudged fatal to
the validity of the grant. We, therefore, are constrained to
bold that this grant should be sustained as a grant in severalty
to the individuals named in the list.
The other matter which requires notice. arises upon these
facts: The treaty of Guadaloupe lHidalgo was signed February 2, 184,8, ratifications were exchanged May 30, 1848, and
proclamation made July 4, 1848. By this treaty New Mexico
-was ceded to the United States, but for some time prior to
and during that year our forces were in possession of that
territory. In the month of March, 1848, these proceedings

UNITED STATES v. PENA.
Opinion of the Court.

were had. The prefect, upon application, made an order to
the alcalde, of which this is a copy:
"In fulfilment of the discharge of your duty you will go to
the point of La Petaca to place in possession all the individuals who are noted down in the grant of said possession, which
ought to be in the archive under your charge, giving the lots
which are found vacantto those persons who ask for them
and who are unprovided, the equality in all the possessions,
and that they pay you your fees.
"Ojo Caliente, March 20, 1848.
"SA.IVAnoR LucEno

(Rubrica)

"Prefeet of Rio Arriba.
"To the Alcalde Don Yicente Jaramillo."
In pursuance of this order the alcalde proceeded to make
the further distribution, as appears from the following report:
"General list, formed at the new possession which they
commonly call La Petaca, made to-day, the 27th of March, of
ihe year of our Lord 1848, in conformity to the superior decree
of the prefect, Don Salvador Lucero, where he orders me that
I place in possession those citizens who justly may have died
or are not present; thus it is that, having stopped at the first
boundary, which consists of the plaza, upwards, accompanied
by the retiring justice, Don Bernardo Yaldez, and my clerk,
Vicente Abilucea y Cordoba, and all the municipality of citizens, and for the exact fulfilment I stated in a loud voice that
I was going to measure the land in the name of the Territory
of New Mexico, and that they shall receive that concession in
the name of the Constitution of the United States, etc., and
that measurement to the parties placed in possession was begun by the retiring justice of the peace, Don Bernardo Valdez,
of that which he had donated from the year 1843, and they
are the following."
Then follows a list of names, and the report closes in these
words:
"And in order that this may in all time appear, which are

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

required by the law, they took possession of it by the authority and in the name of the Territory of New Mexico and
respecting the Constitution of the United States, and 1, the
attending witness, and the retiring justice signing to-day, the
day of the above date ut supra.
"NOTE. -The
citizens placed in possession in this grant
with 150 varas and with the ethers who may have more shall
have to enjoy them in the name of the Territory of New
Mexico and the Constitution of the United States, as this is
the authentic disposition of the retiring and new officials, and
by superior order there was given and donated to them the
said possessions in the regular rule of 150 varas and in a
straight line on both sides of. the stream. In order that this
favor may have the force and validity which the laws cite, we
sign and authenticate it with all the powers which are con'ferred, in order that there may be no change and that it may
not be again donated by another justice, except on account of
abandonment of five years, or on account of not wishing to
work in the fulfilment, benefit, proper, but then through the
mayordomo report will be made to this court in-order that
another may enjoy that-which he may reject; and this donation was signed and given to-day, the 27th of March, of the
year of our Lord 1848.
"JOSE VICENTE JARAXnlLIO,

-

LSOR OLL.]

Justice of the Peace of the County of Rio Ariba.
"Attending:
"VIENTE ABILUOEA. [scRoLL.]
"BRNARDO VALDuE; Retiging Justice."
In respect to this it is enough to say that in so far as it was
an attempt to create new rights it was beyond the power of
the officials who assumed to act. The order of the prefect
has a twofold aspect. It directs the alcalde to put in possession those who were named in the original grant, and this
may have been within the scope of his authority. But it also
attempts to make a grant to additional persons, and this was
beyond his power. Grespin v. United States, 168 U. S. 208:
Neither could the alcalde make such a grant. Hays v. United.

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
Statement of the Case.

States, ante, 248. Indeed, it may well be doubted whether
since the country was in the possession of the United States
forces, and a treaty had already been signed, which was
shortly thereafter ratified, for the cession of the entire Territory, any Mexican official could by new grants diminish the
amount of land which was to become the property of this
Government. And of course if goes without saying that no
such officials had authority under the Constitution and laws
of the United States to grant public lands. This whole proceeding may rightfully be ignored except so far as it indicates
those who took title under the original grant, oi discloses
those who were their successors in interest. Further than
this it has no significance.
The decree of the Court of Private Land- Claims will be
reversed, and the case remanded with instructionsto enter
a decree in favor of the originalgrantees or their successors
in interest for the lands grantedin severalty. It may be
necessary to take further testimony for identifying such
.parties,and the trial court is at liberty to take such testimony.

UNITED STATES v. CHAVEZ.
SAME v. S AME.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
Mos.89, 89. Argued October 16, 17, 199. -Decided December 18, 1$99.
Upon a long and uninterrupted possession of lands in Mexico, beginning
long prior to the transfer of the territory in which they are situated
to the United States, and continuing after that transfer, the law bases
presumptions as sufficient for legal judgment, in favor of the possessor,
in the absence of rebutting circumstances, which do not exist in this
case.

To the land involved in these cases the appellees claimed
a complete and perfect title, and petitioned the Court of
Private Land Claims under section 8 of the act establishing

