BRADFIELD v. ROBERTS.
Syllabus.

ment of the action, then the defendant was entitled to have
had his demurrer sustained. But he did not stand on his
demurrer, but availed himself of the court's leave to answer;
and hence it might well be questioned whether it was competent for him to again raise in his answer a question already
ruled against him under his demurrer.
But this it is unnecessary to consider, because it is altogether
clear that, on the complaint and the facts found, this was not
an action for a forcible entry and detainer, under the section of
the Oregon Code pleaded by the defendant, but was an action
of ejectment to which the statute pleaded did not apply.
The judgment of the District Court of the United States for
the District of Alaska is
Afimed.

BRADFIELD v. ROBERTS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 76. Argued October 27, 1S99. -Decided

December 4,1899.

The Providence Hospital of the city of Washington was incorporated by
the act of Congress of August 7, 1864, c. 50, 13 Stat. 43, which gave to
it "1full power and all the rights of opening and keeping a hospital in
the city of Washington for the care of such sick and invalid persons
as may place themselves under the treatment and care of the said corporation." By the act of March 3, 1897, c. 387, 29 Stat. 665, making
appropriations for the District of Columbia, an appropriation of $30,000
was made for two isolating buildings, to be constructed in the discretion
of the Commissioners of the District, on the grounds of two hospitals,
and to be operated as a part of such hospitals. Under that authority
the Commissioners made an agreement with the Providence Hospital,
which was a private hospital, in charge of sisters of the Roman Catholic Church, for the construction of an isolating building or ward on
the hospital grounds, and for the receipt therein of poor patients sent
there by the Commissioners, and for payments by the District on that
account to the hospital. Yeld, that the agreement was one which it was
within the power of the Commissioners to make; and that it did not conflict with the provision in Article I of the Amendments to the Constitution that "1Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion,"

OCTOBER TER.,

1899.

Statement of the Case.

THIS was a suit in equity, brought by the appellant to enjoin
the defendant from paying any moneys to the directors of
Providence Hospital in the city of Washington, under an
agreement entered into between the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia and the, directors of the hospital, by
virtue of the authority of an act of Congress, because of the
alleged invalidity of the agreement for the reasons stated in
the bill of complaint; In that bill complainant represents
that he is a'citizen and taxpayer of the United States and a
resident of the District of Columbia, that the defendant is the
Treasurer of the United States, and the object of the suit is
to enjoin him from paying to or on account of Providence
Hospital, in the city of Washington, District of Columbia,
any moneys belonging to the United States, by virtue of a
contract between the Surgeon General of the Army and
the .directors of that hospital, or by virtue of an agreement
between the Commissioners of the District of Columbia and
such directors, under the authority of an appropriation contained in the sundry civil appropriation bill for the District
of Columbia, approved June 4, 1897.
Complainant further alleged in his bill:
"That the said Providence Hospital is a private eleemosynary corporation, and that to the best of th6 complainant's
knowledge and belief it is composed of members of a monastic order or sisterhood of the Roman Catholic Church, and is
conducted under the auspices of said church; that the title
to its property is vested in the 'Sisters of Charity of Emmitsburg, Maryland ;' that it was incorporated by a special act of
Congress approved April 8, 1864, whereby, in addition to the
usual powers of bodies corporate and politic, it was infvested
specially with ' full power and all the rights of opening and
keeping a hospital in the city of Washington for the care of
such sick and invalid lersons as may place themselves under
tie treatment and care of said corporation.'
"That in view of the sectarian character of said Providence
Hospital and the specific and limited object of its creation, the
said contract between the same and the Surgeon General of
the Army and also the said agreement between the same and

BRADFIELD v. ROBERTS.

293

Statement of the Case.

the Commissioners of the District of Columbia ard unauthor-,
ized by law, and, moreover, involve a principle and a precedent
for the appropriation of the funds of the United States for the
use and support of religious societies, contrary to the article
of the Constitution which declares that Congress shall make
no law respecting a religious establishment, and also a prece.dent for giving to religious societies a legal agency in carry.mg into effect a public and civil duty which would, if once
established, speedily obliterate the essential distinction between
civil and relioious functions.
"That the complainant and all other citizens and taxpayers
of the United States are injured by reason of the said contract
and the said agreement, in virtue whereof the public funds are
being used and pledged for the advancement and support of a
private and sectarian corporation, and that they will suffer
irreparable damage if the same are allowed to be carried into
full effect by means of payments made through or by the said
defendant out of the Treasury of the United States, contrary
to the Constitution and declared policy of the Government."
The agreement above mentioned, between the'Commissioners of the District of Columbia and the directors of
Providence Hospital, is annexed to the bill, and is as follows:
" Articles of agreement entered into this sixteenth day of
August, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred
and ninety-seven, by and between the Commissioners of the
District of Columbia and the directors of Providence Hospital,
a body corporate in said District, whereby it is agreed on the'
part of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia "That they will erect on the grounds of said hospital an
isolating building or ward for the treatment of minor contagious diseases, said building or ward to be erected without
expense to said hospital, except such as it may elect, but to be
paid out of an appropriation for that purpose contained in the
District appropriation bill approved March 3, 1897, on plans
to be furnished by the said Commissioners, and approved by
the health officer of the District of Columbia, and that when
the said building or ward is fully completed it shall be turned

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

over to the officers of Providence Hospital, subject to the
following provisions:
"First. That two thirds of the entire capacity of said isolating building or ward shall be reserved for the use of such poor
patients as shall be sent there by the Commissioners of the
District from time to time through the proper officers. For
each such patient said Commissioners and their successors in
office are to pay at the rate of two hundred and fifty dollars
($250) per annum, for such a time as such patient may be in
the hospital, subject to annual appropriations by Congress.
"Second. That persons able to pay for treatment may make
such arrangements for entering the said building or ward as
shall be determined by those in charge thereof, and such persons will pay the said Providence Hospital reasonable compensation for such treatment, to be fixed by the hospital
authorities, but such persons shall have the privilege of selecting their own physicians and nurses, and in case physicians
and nurses are selected other than those assigned by the hospital, it shall be at the expense of the patient making the
request.
"And said Providence Hospital agrees to always maintain
a neutral zone of forty (40) feet around said isolating building
or ward and grounds connected therewith to which patients
of said ward have access.
"As witness the signatures and seals of John W. Ross, John
B. Wight and Edward Burr, acting Commissioners of the
District of Columbia, and the corporate seal of the said The
Directors of Providence Hospital and the signature of president thereof, this sixteenth day of August, A.D. 1897."
The contract, if any, between the directors and the Surgeon
General of the' Army is not set forth in the bill, and the contents or conditions thereof do not in, any way appear.
The defendant demurred to the bill on the ground that the
comllainant had not in and by his bill shown any right or
title to maintain the same; also upon the further ground that
the complainant had not stated such a case as entitled him to
the relief thereby prayed or any relief as against the defendant.

BRADFIELD v. ROBERTS.

'295

Opinion of the Court.'

Complainant joined issue upon the demurrer, and at a term
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia the demurrer
was overruled and the injunction granted as prayed for. 26
Wash. Law 1Rep. 84:. Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals
of the District the judgment was reversed, and the dase
remanded to the Supreme Court, with directions to dismiss
the bill. 12 App. D. C. 453. Whereupon the complainant
appealed to this court.
.Mr.Joseph Bradeld, appellant, in person for appellant.
X.. Asistant Attorney General JRoyt for appellee.
Attorney General was on his brief.

Mr.

MR.JusioRm PECFHAm, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Passing the various objections made to the maintenance of
this suit on account of an alleged defect of pdrties, and also
in regard to the character in which the complainant sues,
merely that of a citizen and taxpayer of the United States
and a resident of the District of Columbia, we come to the
main question as to the validity of the agreement between
the Commissioners of the District and the directors of the
hospital, founded upon the appropriation contained in the act
of Congress, the contention being that the agreement if carried
out would result in an appropriation by Congress of money
to a religious society, thereby violating the constitutional
provision which forbids Congress from passing any law respecting an establishment of religion. Art. I of the Amendments to Constitution.
The appropriation is to be found in the -general appropriation act for the government of the District of Columbia,
approved March 3, 1897, c. 387, 29 Stat. 665, 679. It reads:
"For two isolating buildings, to be constructed, in the discretion ,of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia, on
the grounds of two hospitals, and to be operated as a part
of such hospitals, thirty thousand dollars." Acting under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

authority of this appropriation the Commissioners entered
into the agreement in question.
As the bill alleges that Providence Hospital was incorporated by an act of Congress, approved April 8, 1861, c. 50, 13
Stat. 43, and assumes to give some of its provisions, the act
thus referred to is substantially made a part of the bill, and
it is therefore set forth in the margin.'
The act shows that the individuals named therein and their
successors in office were incorporated under the name of
"The Directors of Providence Hospital," with power to
'An Act to incorporate Providence Hospital of the City of Washington,
District of Columbia.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That Lucy Gwynn, Teresa Angela
Costello, Sarah McDonald, Mary E. Spalding and Mary Carroll, and their.
successors in office, are hereby made, declared and constituted a corporation and body politic, in law and in fact, under the name and style of the
directors of Providence Hospital, and by that name they shall be and are
hereby made capable in law to sue and be sued, to plead and ba impleaded,
in any court within the county of Washington, in the District of Columbia;
to have and use a common seal, and to alter or amend the same at pleasure;
to have, purchase, receive, possess and enjoy any estate in lands, tenements,
annuities, goods, chattels,',moneys or effects, and to grant, devise or dispose of the same in such manner as they may deem most for the interest
of the hospital: Provided, That the real estate held by said corporation
shall not exceed in value the sum of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That ,the said corporation and body
politic shall have full power to appoint from their own body a president
and such other officers as they may deem necessary for the purposes of
their creation; and in case of the death, resignation or refusal to serve, of
any of their number, the remaining members shall elect and appoint other
persons in lieu of those whose places may have been vacated; and the said
corporation shall have full power and all the rights of opening and keeping
a hospital in the city of Washington for the care of such sick and invalid
persons as may place themselves under the treatment and care of the said
corporation.
SEC. 3. And be it further enacted, That the said corporation shall also
have and enjoy full power and authority to make such by-laws, rules and
regulations, as may be necessary for the general accomplishment of the
objects of said hospital: Provided, That they be not inconsistent with the
laws in force in the District of Columbia: And provided, further, That this
act shall be liable to be amended, altered or repealed, at the pleasure of
Congress.

BRADFIELD v., ROBERTS.
Opinion of the Court.

receive, hold and convey personal and real property, as provided in its first section. By the second section the corporation-was granted "full power and all the rights of opening
and keeping a hospital in the city of Washington for the
care of such sick and invalid persons as may place themselves
under the treatment and care of the said corporation." The
third section gave it full power to make such by-laws, rules
and regulations that might be necessary for the general
accomplishment of the objects of the hospital, not inconsistent
with the laws in force in the District of Columbia. -Nothing
is said about religion or about the religious faith of the incorporators of this institution in the act of incorporation. It
is simply the ordinary case of the incorporation of a hospital
for the purposes for which such an institution is generally
conducted. It is claimed that the allegation in the complainant's bill, that the said "Providence Hospital is a private
eleemosynary corporation, and that to the best of complainant's knowledge and belief it is composed of members of a
monastic order or sisterhood of the Roman. Catholic Church,
and is conducted under the auspices of said church; that the
title to" its property is vested in the Sisters of Charity of
nEmmitsburg, Maryland," renders the agreement void for the
reason therein stated, which is tlhat Congress has no power
to make "a law respecting a religious establishment," a
phrase which is not synonymous with that used in the Constitution, which prohibits the passage of a law "irespecting
an establishment of religion."
If we were to assume, for the purpose of this question only,
that under this appropriation an agreement with a religious
corporation of the tenor of this agreement would be invalid,
as re.ulting indirectly in the passage of an act respecting an
establishment of religion, we are unable to see that the complainant in his bill shows that the corporation is of the kind
described, but on the contrary he has clearly shown that it is
not.
The above-mentioned allegations in the complainant's bill
do not change the legal character of the corporation or render
it on that account a religious or sectarian body. Assuming

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Opinion of the Court.

that the hospital is a private eleemosynary corporation, the
fact that its members, according to the belief of the complainant, are members of a monastic order or sisterhood of
the Roman Catholic Church, and the further fact that the
hospital is conducted under the auspices of said church, are
wholly immaterial, as is also the allegation regarding the title
to its property. The statute provides as to its property and
makes no provision for its being held by any one other than
itself. The fads above stated do not in the least clange the
legal character of the hospital, or make a religious corporation out of a purely secular one as constituted by the law of
its being. Whether the individuals who compose the corporation under its charter happen to be all Roman Catholics, or
all Methodists, or Presbyterians, or Unitarians, or members of
any other religious organization, or of no organization at all,
is of not the slightest consequence with reference .to the law
of its incorporation, nor can the individual beliefs upon religious matters of the various incorporators be inquired into.
Nor is it material that the hospital may be conducted under
the auspices of the Roman Catholic Church. To be conducted
under the auspices is to be conducted under the influence or
patronage of that church. The meaning of the allegation is that
the church exercises great and perhaps controlling influence
over the management of the hospital. It must, however, be
managed pursuant to the law of its being. That the influence
of any particular church may be powerful over the members
of a non-sectarian and secular corporation, incorporated for a
certain defined purpose and with clearly stated powers, is
surely not sufficient to convert such a corporation into a
religious or sectarian body. That fact does not alter the
legal character of the corporation, which is incorporated
under an act of Congress, and its powers, duties and character are to be solely measured by the charter under which
it alone has any legal existence. There is no allegation that
its hospital work -is confined to members of that church or
that in its management the hospital has been conducted so
as to violate its charter in the smallest degree. It is simply
the case of a secular corporation being managed by people

BRADFIELD v. ROBERTS.
Opinion .of the Court.

who hold to the doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church, but
who nevertheless are managing the corporation according to
the law under which it exists. The charter itself does not
limit the exercise of its corporate powers to the members of
any particular religious denomination, but on the contrary
those powers are t6 be exercised in favor of any one seeking
the ministrations of that kind of an institution. All that can
be said of the corporation itself is that it has been incorporated
by an act of Congress, and for its legal powers and duties that
act must be exclusively referred to. 'As stated in the opinion
of the Court of Appeals, this corporation "is not declared the
trustee of any church or religious society. Its property is to
be acquired in its own name and for its own purposes; that
property and its business are to be managed in its own way,
subject to no visitation, supervision or control by any ecclesiastical authority whatever, but only to that of the Government which created it. In respect then of its creation,
orcranization, management and ownership of property it is
an ordinary private corporation whose rights are determinable by the law of the land, and the religious opinions of
whose members are not subjects of inquiry."
It is not contended that Congress has no power in the
District to appropriate money for the purpose expressed in
the appropriation, and it is not doubted that it has power
to authorize the Commissioners of the District of Columbia
to enter into a contract with the trustees of an incorporated
hospital for the purposes mentioned in the agreement in this
case, and the only objection set up is the alleged "sectarian
character of the hospital and the specific and limited object
of its creation."
Thb other allegations in complainant's bill are simply statements of his opinion in regard to the results necessarily flowing from the appropriation in question when connected with
the agreement mentioned.
The act of Congress, however, shows there is nothing sectarnan in the corporation, and "the specific and limited object of
its creation" is the opening and keeping a hospital in the city
of Washington for the care of subh sick and invalid persons-as

OCTOBER TERM, 1899.
Statement of the Case.

may place themselves under the treatment and care of the corporation. To make the agreement was within the discretion
of the Commissioners, and was a fair exercise thereof.
The right reserved in the third section of the charter to
amend; alter or repeal the act leaves full power in Congress
to remedy any abuse of the charter privileges.
Without adverting to any other objections to the maintenance of this suit, it is plain that complainant wholly fails to
set forth a cause of action, and the bill was properly dismissed
by the Court of Appeals, and its decree will, therefore, be

Affirmed.

NILES v. CEDAR POINT CLUB.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 80. Argued November 16,17,1899. -Decided

December 4,1899.

Generally, in public surveys, a meander line is a line which courses the
banks of navigable streams or other navigable waters ; but in this case
it distinctly appears from the field. notes and the plat, that the deputy
surveyor by whom it was surveyed-n 1834 and 1835, and whose acts were
approved by the surveyor general, stopped his surveys at what he called
a marsh, which intervened between the point where he stopped and the
waters of Lake Erie, and thus limited the land which the United States
in 1844, following that survey, patented to the person under whom the
appellant claims, and thus excluded the marsh, leaving to subsequent
measurements the actual determination of the line of separation between
the lands thus patented, and those which the Government did not propose to convey.
One receiving a patent will not ordinarily be heard to insist that by reason
of an error on the part of a surveyor, more land was bought than was
paid for, or than the Government was offering for sale.
This marsh was properly held not to be regarded as land continuously submerged.

Tis controversy is between two claimants to land, one holdiig a patent therefor from the United States and the other
claiming it by virtue of its contiguity to other land for which

