OCTOBER TERM, 1905.

496

Syllabus.

200 U. S.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY DISTRICT
OF CHICAGO.
No. 4, Original.

Argued January 2, 3, 4, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.

Missouri filed its bill in this court to enjoin Illinois and the Sanitary District of Chicago from discharging sewage through an artificial channel
connecting Lake Michigan with the Desplaines River, a tributary of
the Illinois, the latter of which empties into the Mississippi River above
St. Louis, claiming that such sewage so polluted the water of the Mississippi as to render it unfit to drink and productive of typhoid fever and
other diseases. Illinois denied the jurisdiction of this court, and the
allegations of the bill, and alleged that if the conditions complained of
at St. Louis existed they resulted from discharge of sewage into the
Mississippi by cities of Missouri and from other causes for which Illinois
was not responsible. A demurrer was overruled, with leave to answer,
180 U. S. 208; after answer and taking of proof including much expert
testimony as to effect of sewage on water and health, h/d, that:
This court has jurisdiction and authority to deal with a question of this
nature between two States, which, if it arose between two independent
sovereignties, might lead to war.
In such a case, while this court cannot take the place of a legislature it must
determine whether there is any principle of law, and if any what, on
which the plaintiff State can recover.
Every matter which would be cognizable in equity if between private citizens
in the same jurisdiction would not warrant this court in interfering if
such matter arose between States; this court should only intervene to
enjoin the action of one State at the instance of another when the case
is of serious magnitude, clearly and fully proved; and in such a case only
such principles should be applied as this court is prepared deliberately
to maintain.
While a State may have relief in this court against another State to prevent
it from discharging sewage through an artificial channel into, and thereby
polluting the waters of, a river flowing through both States and on which
the complainant State relies for water supply, if the alleged facts as to
such pollution are not fully proved, and it also appears that such pollution might result from the discharge of sewage by cities of the complainant State into the same river the bill should be dismissed,-but in this
case without prejudice.
The reasons on which prescription for a public nuisance is denied or granted
to individuals against the sovereign power to which he is subject have
no application to an independent state; but it would be contradicting a
fundamental principle of human nature not to allow effect to the lapse of
time. The fixing of a definite time, however, is usually for the legislature and not for the courts.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

The mere fact that the drainage canal, constructed by authority of Illinois
and also under authority of an act of Congress, brought water from the
Lake Michigan watershed into the watershed of the Mississippi does not,
in the absence of proof of the deleterious effects of such water, render the
canal an unlawful structure, the use whereof should be enjoined at the
instance of another State in the MAississippi watershed.

THE facts, which involved the right of the defendants to discharge the sewage of Chicago through an artificial channel into
the Desplaines River which empties into a tributary of the
Mississippi River, are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Herbert S. Hadley, Attorney General of the State of
Missouri, Mr. Sam B. Jeffries and Mr. Charles W. Bates, with
whom Mr. W. F. Woerner was on the brief, for the complainant:
The substantial purpose of the complaint is to subject the
construction and operation of the drainage channel from the
Chicago River at Chicago, southwestwardly to the Desplaines
River at Lockport, a point immediately above Joliet, to the
court's supervision, upon the charge that the method of construction and operation creates and constitutes a continuing
nuisance, dangerous to the health of the people of Missouri;
and which if not restrained, results in the daily transportation,
by artificial means, and through an unnatural channel, of large
quantities of undefecated sewage, and of accumulated deposits
in the harbor of Chicago, and in the bed of the Illinois River,
which poison the water supply of the inhabitants of lissouri
and injuriously affect that portion of the Mississippi River
which lies within complainant's jurisdiction.
No attack is made upon the canal or artificial channel as an
unlawful structure, nor is any attempt made to prevent its use
as a waterway. Complainant seeks relief against the pouring
of undefecated and unpurified sewage and filth through it
by the artificial arrangements into the Mississippi River to the
detriment of complainant and its inhabitants.
For the original bill see 180 U. S. 208, where defendants' demurrer was overruled.
VOL. cc-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

200 U. S.

The population of Chicago is about 2,000,000 and by its
addition to the Mississippi watershed the urban population
sewering into that river has been increased by seventy-five
per cent. Lake Michigan is the natural basin for the sewage
of Chicago. The expert evidence in this case shows that more
polluting and infectious material is now contained in the water
than prior to the opening of the canal.
According to the science of bacteriology, it is practically
impossible to discover in a contaminated water the disease producing organisms, so small are the organisms and so delicate the
test to be made. It has, however, been observed, that where
large quantities of bacilli coli comnnunis have been found, it is
a conclusive indication that the water is sewage polluted and,
therefore, infected with disease producing organisms. The
number of bacteria is important if the source of the polluting
matter is known. However, bacteriologists when applying the
science to the sanitary observations of water, disregard largely
the number of bacteria and depend mostly upon the character
of the pathogenic organisms found.
Typhoid bacilli, the most dangerous perhaps of any of the
water-borne diseases, has never been discovered in the waters of
a running stream, save as to two or three reported instances, and
from the present conditions of the science, their discovery is not
a practical proposition. So it may be said that from the standpoint of bacteriology and chemistry as applied to sanitary observations, there is no direct means of proving the absolute
presence of pathogenic bacteria in water. A water supply
may be chemically without fault and yet contain many living
disease producing organisms.
The effect of the sewage of Chicago upon the waters of the
Mississippi River at the mouth of the Illinois has been such as
if a large and populous city had been established on January
17, 1900, upon the banks of the Mississippi River discharging its sewage into the waters of that river. The chemical
analysis discloses that the water in the Illinois River at Grafton contains more infectious material, and material liable to

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

contain infection, than it did prior to the opening of the drainage canal. It also discloses that the waters of the Mississippi
River above Grafton and the Missouri River are freer from contaninating and infectious matter than the waters of the
Illinois. This, of course, is but a natural condition. The
sewage of two millions of people could not have the effect of
improving conditions at any point on the Illinois River.
As soon as the canal was opened the death rate from typhoid
in St. Louis started upward and has continued on the increase ever since. Typhoid mortality per 100,000 population
in St. Louis for the years 1900, 1901, 1902 and 1903 increased
77.7 per cent over the typhoid mortality per 100,000 population in 1896, 1897, 1898 and 1899. This enormous increase
occurred with no change in the manner of treating the water.
The increase has been gradual, both in winter and summer
seasons, with no relaxation in the least except that the percentage of increase has been greater in the winter seasons than
during the summer months. All parts of the city where the
public water supply has been used have alike suffered. No
local epidemic has occurred; in fact, nothing has been observed, after a very searching investigation, that can in any
way be charged with the cause of the increase save the discharge of the sewage of Chicago into the canal in question and
hastening its flow to St. Louis by means of the Illinois River.
The evidence discloses the germs of tetanus (lock jaw) and
anthrax to have been discovered in the waters of the Illinois
River since the opening of the canal at Chicago.
The enormous increase in deaths and cases of typhoid in
St. Louis caused by the discharge of sewage from the city of
Chicago into the Mississippi has been a source of financial loss
to complainant. It has been truthfully said that "The average
city of 100,000 population wastes perhaps half a million dollars,
per year on the luxury of having it." Not only is it a long,
tedious and grave illness, often leaving life-long disabilities in
its wake, but it is also one of the most expensive of ailments.
Counting each death in the city of St. Louis caused by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

200 U. S.

sewage from Chicago as having a value of $5,000, the loss to
complainant is no small matter. While if we take into consideration the cost and expense of treating and nursing those
cases wherein a recovery is had, together with the loss of labor
while ill, the loss to the community reaches a total of many
hundred thousand dollars per annum. This is the financial
loss. The sorrows of death, pains of sickness and mental distress cannot, from the standpoint of humanity, be measured
in dollars and cents.
The population residing upon the natural watershed of the
Illinois River brands it as more heavily infected than that of
either the Mississippi or the Missouri. Physical and atmospherical conditions also must not be overlooked.
The population upon the watershed of the Mississippi River
has already burdened it with an immense sewage disposal
which burden will become greater as population increases.
Much trouble will soon arise in this connection, making it
impossible to secure suitable water without very expensive
treatment and improvement plants. The discharge of the sewage from Chicago into the drainage basin of the Mississippi
has not only hastened that condition, but if not restrained, will
compel St. Louis to spend many million dollars in the construction of a filter plant in order to force its typhoid mortality back
to conditions similar to 1896, 1897, 1898 and 1899. The danger and damage to complainant, the menace to its welfare,
the loss of its reputation as a city of comparatively low typhoid
mortality and the impediment to its financial and industrial
growth caused by the injury sustained and the constantly
increasing embarrassing conditions manifestly convict defendants of the injuries complained of, and unquestionably warrant the decree prayed for in this ease.
Much might be said of what may be expected in the future,
as shown by the evidence in the case, if present conditions are
permitted to become permanent. Ere long we may depend on
Chicago having a population of more than 5,000,000. That
city will then, so to speak, be brought nearer to St. Louis,

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

in so far as its contaminating effect upon the water supply is
concerned. The volume of the water passing through the
canal will be necessarily increased, thus hastening the flow
down the river. It is not necessary, however, to look to
future developments for grounds of relief, the existing conditions are amply sufficient.
The expert testimony of eminent scientists, chemists and
bacteriologists shows that the principal water-borne diseases
may be designated as cholera, typhoid, dysentery, anthrax
and tetanus, and the result produced by bacilli coli comrnunis when injected under the skin of a human being, or when
lodged in the appendix producing appendicitis. Typhoid
fever or bacilli typhosis is a common water-borne disease in
this country. It is caused by crude sewage being discharged
into the water supply. This fact is demonstrated by the
effect of the establishment of filtration plants for the purpose
of treating the water supplied for the cities of Hamburg, Germany; London, England, and Berlin, Germany, and a number of large cities in this country.
That typhoid, cholera, dysentery, anthrax and tetanus are
water-borne diseases was conceded by all witnesses. In fact
sanitary science has come to realize with absolute assurance
that the diseases above mentioned as a general thing are caused
by inferior water, or water which has been subjected to sewage pollution.
While it is practically impossible to discover or detect the
physical presence of bacilli in running water, save or except as
to bacilli coli conm unis, which are found in abundance in all
streams in which sewage is emptied, all persons having knowledge of sanitary science, have settled beyond question that the
diseases above mentioned are as a general proposition more
readily communicated by means of inferior water supplied
than in any other way.
In the examinations of the water of the Illinois River
bacillus of tetanus and of anthrax was discovered in the water
of that river. This in connection with bacilli coli coimnunis,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

200 U. S.

which is very prevalent in the water of the Illinois, as shown
by all the testimony in the case, constitutes practically the total
results of the discoveries of the pathogenic bacillus in the
waters of the rivers in question during this entire investigation.
A riparian population has the right to the use of a stream
for drinking and other domestic uses in its natural state.
Where discharges of sewage render the water of a stream
impure or infectious, the injured have a right to ask and obtain
relief through the power of the courts.
Although those residing upon the stream have the right to
cast their waste into the stream so long as it does not substantially interfere with the convenience, health and comfort
or the business interests of those residing on the river below,
yet, such right does not extend to those residing upon another watershed so as to permit such discharges or deposits
by artificial means into the stream draining a different watershed.
When discharges have such effect as to render the conditions dangerous and unsanitary, the right to maintain such
nuisance cannot become permanent by prescription.
The fact that others contribute to the injury constitutes no
excuse or justification for the one charged to continue in the
same.
The fact that riparian owners are allowed to discharge
their waste and refuse into a stream so long as it does not
create a substantial injury to those lower down, is merely a
privilege even to the law of convenience and public policy.
It is not a substantial vested right incapable of defeat.
While the privilege of depositing waste into a river by
riparian owners so long as no damage or substantial injury is
experienced by those living lower down may be recognized on
grounds of public policy and the general law of convenience and
necessity of the people, it does not necessarily license others
than riparian owners to discharge waste into the stream and
that, too, regardless of whether it be a substantial interference
with those below the point of discharge or not.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

Complainant has been materially and irreparably injured
on account of the conduct of defendant in the operation of the
artificial channel from Lake Michigan to the Desplaines River,
and the discharge of the raw sewage into the channel and thence
into the Mississippi River, defendants having no right in law
to convey the sewage and infectious material of more than two
millions of people from one watershed to people living upon
another watershed.
Germs of infectious diseases are shown to pass from Chicago to St. Louis and greatly injure the water of the Mississippi
at St. Louis, and at all points on the Missouri shore below the
mouth of the Illinois River.
The waters of the Mississippi are shown to be more heavily
burdened with disease organisms and injectious material since
the opening of the canal, January 17, 1900, than prior to that
time, such increased infection being due to the discharge of the
sewage at Chicago into the canal.
The typhoid mortality at St. Louis, on account of defendants'
action, has increased annually 77.7 per cent for the period of
four years since the establishment of the nuisance as compared
with the four years immediately prior thereto, such increase of
typhoid mortality being due to said nuisance.
Valuing each life to the extent of the annual increase of at
least 80 deaths per annum for the four years at $5,000, and the
loss of labor, cost of treating and nursing the additional or increased cases amounting to 1,200 (deaths multiplied by 15),
occurring annually, calculated on the basis of $10 per day for
loss of labor, medical treatment and nursing, it will be observed that the damage of complainant is of no trivial amount.
From the standpoint of humanity and taking into consideration mental and physical suffering, permanent disabilities and
all of the disagreeable elements entering into conditions and
circumstances which produce death, and taking also into consideration the fact that no one community should attempt to
relieve itself from sufferings of sickness and death at the expense of a neighboring community, the right and justice of this

OCTOBER TERIM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

200 U. S.

litigation instituted, on behalf of complainant against defendant, is apparent.
The injury inflicted upon complainant is actual, substantial,
continuous, immediate and irreparable.
In the presentation of the case upon the demurrer to the
court, a full line of authorities was submitted upon complainant's right to institute this proceeding, entitling it to judgment
if the facts set forth in the petition be established, and showing
complainant's right to join both parties defendant in the action.
The position assumed by complainant was upheld, both as to
the jurisdictional question and its right to the relief sought.
180 U. S. 208.
The undisputed evidence shows that disease-producing organisms or pathogenic bacteria are discharged from the sewers
of a city into the drainage basin and when carried away by the
running stream remain in the stream throughout the life of the
germ or organism, unless they be sooner introduced into some
human system. In this way certain diseases are communicated
from one individual to another. As the population of a city
upon a watershed increases, the relative number of pathogenic
bacteria discharged into the river upon which the city is situated increases, and thus the water of that river is being continually increased in contamination.
The inhabitants of a large and populous city have the right
to use the water of the stream upon which the city is situated
in its natural condition, free from infectious material deposited
into it at points above. -If the discharge of infectious sewage and filth in the stream renders the water dangerous and
harmful to the people living below, such municipality or person
creating the nuisance and causing the danger or damage may
be enjoined from- continuing the infectious discharges. -0
Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 378; Indianapolis Watkrworks Co. v. Strawboard Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 1000; Trevett v.
PrisonAssociation, 98 Virginia, 352; Attorney General v. Birmingham, 4 Kay & J. 528.
The right of a city to pour into a river surface drainage'

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

does not include the right to mi:x with that drainage filthy and
noxious substances in such quantities that the river cannot
dilute them nor safely carry them off without injury to the
property of others. The latter act is, in effect, an appropriation of the bed of the river as an open sewer to carry such
substances to the property of the lower proprietor and is an
invasion of his property rights. Platt v. Waterbury, 77 Am.
St. Rep. 335; Wood on Nuisances, 3d ed., §§ 427, 579.
Where there are several contributing causes to the pollution
and infection of a water course, one cannot escape liability
for those living below and using the waters for domestic purposes, because of such pollution by themselves. Eliminating
from the case the fact that Chicago is situated upon the natural watershed of Lake Michigan while complainant is situated
upon the natural watershed of the Mississippi, and even though
it be assumed that the same rights with reference to the disposal of its sewerage belong to Chicago as to any other city
upon the natural watershed of the Illinois River, it cannot be
claimed by the defendants that they have the right to pollute
the waters of the Mississippi because there are other cities
situated upon its watershed which contribute to the pollution
after or before the water reaches the Mississippi at Grafton.
Crossley v. Lightowler, L. R. 2 Ch. 478; Tennessee Coal and
Iron Co. v. Hamilton, 100 Alabama, 252; Watson v. New Milford
77 Am. St. Rep. 345; 30 Am. and Eng. Ency. of Law, 383;
Hill v. Smith, 32 California, 177; Little Schuylkill Navigation
Co. v. Richard, 98 Am. Dec. 211; Fergusonv. FirmenichManufacturing Co., 77 Iowa, 579.
The fact that Peoria, Pekin, Havana, LaSalle, Beardstown
and Joliet sewer into the Illinois River, does not constitute the
right of defendants to likewise discharge the sewerage from
the city of Chicago into the Illinois River. Noland v. New
Britain,69 Connecticut, 668; Wheeler v. Fisher Oil Co., 9 Ohio
Dec. 294; Jackman v. Arlington Mills, 137 Massachusetts, 277;
Morgan v. Danbury, 67 Connecticut, 484; Fahnestock v. Feldner, 56 At1. Rep. 785.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for ComplainAnt.

200 U. S.

The right to continue a public nuisance cannot be acquired
by prescription. The fact that the Illinois and Michigan Canal
was constructed many years ago for the purpose of aiding
navigation, and since 1871 has been used for the purpose of
partially carrying off the discharges from the stock yards in
the southern part of the city of Chicago, and the fact that this
canal enters the Illinois River at Peru, does not constitute a
right by prescription upon the part of defendants to construct
the main drainage canal in question, and operate it in the
manner as charged in the bill.
The construction of the artificial channel and the discharge
of Lake Michigan through it has changed conditions entirely
in comparison with those which existed prior thereto. So
that the fact that a certain portion of the sewerage of Chicago
was discharged through the Illinois and Michigan canal prior
to January, 1900, does not bestow upon defendants the right
either to continue therein or to construct a larger channel capable of producing, and which does produce, irreparable injury
to complainant.
There can be no prescription for a public nuisance, and no
length of enjoyment can legalize the continuance of a nuisance
destructive to the health of the surrounding community.
Wright & Rice v. Moore, 38 Alabama, 598; Goldsmid v. Commissioners, 1 Law. Rep. 167; Mills v. Hall, 9 Wend. 416;
Attorney General v. Copper Co., 152 Massachusetts, 452.
No length of time will legalize a nuisance. The reason of
the rule to which these cases refer is, that criminality can
gain no toleration in the law. The creation and maintenance
of a public nuisance is punishable criminally; hence the element of criminality, which characterizes the act of creating
it, should prevent the acquisition of a right to maintain it.
Commonwealth v. Upton, 6 Gray, 473; Morton v. Moore, 15
Gray, 573; New Salem v. Eagle Mill, 138 Massachusetts, 8;
State v. Rankin, 3 S. Car. 448; 1 Chitty on Criminal Law, 160;
Stoughton v. Baker, 4 Massachusetts, 522.
Although water may be permitted to run along its natural

AIISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 1U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

course and the flow in its natural course may be to some extent
hastened, there is, however, no right in law to hasten the flow
or impose an additional volume by entering upon the servient
estate using artificial channel for drainage purposes, thereby
increasing the drainage area and thereby burdening the drainage facilities. 2 Farnham on Water and Water Rights, 1052;
Ward v. Peck, 49 N. J. L. 42.
Such an act is a trespass which may be resisted by the injured party, and for that purpose, all the machinery of law
is at his service. Farnham, 487.
Riparian owners are entitled to the usual and natural flow
of water in the stream without material interference.
No one has the right to increase the volume or hasten the
flow of a stream against the wNI and wish of lower riparian
owners especially when damages or injury are likely to result..
Farnham on Water, 487, 1052; Ward v. Peck, 49 N. J. L. 42;
Water Co. v. Bigelow, 60 N. J. L. 201; Wood on Nuisances,
499; Merritt v. Parker, 1 Coxe, 460; Tillotson v. Smith, 32
N. H. 490; Gerrishv. ManufacturingCo., 30 N. H. 478; Plattsworth Co. v. Smith, 57 Nebraska, 579.
For this precise case of turning a stream from its natural
channel and forcing it to run in the channel of another stream,
see Merritt v. Parker, 1 Coxe, 460, cited in Angel on Watercourses, 335; the French law is fully discussed in Pardessus
and Servitudes, §§ 82, 85, 88. If a man's land is materially
damaged by water thrown upon it by reason of the acts of
another, it can make no difference what the source of the
water may be; whether it be backwater, or the flowage of the
same, or the water of another stream. The wrong consists in
turning any water upon the land which does not naturally flow
in that place; and it can make no difference if the water wrongfully turned upon a man's land against his will flows in the
channel of an ancient stream, or in a course where no water
flowed before, if similar damage results. Howell v. McCoy, 3
Rawle, 256; Bealey v. Shaw, 6 East. Rep. 213, Ellenborough, C. J.; Mason v. Hill, 3 Barn. & Adol. 304, Tenterden,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Complainant.

200 U. S.

C. J.; King v. Tiffany, 9 Connecticut, 162; 3 Kent's
Com. 439.
It is a long established principle of the common law that
wherever any act injures another's right, and would be evidence in future in favor of the wrongdoer, an action may be
maintained for an invasion of the right without proof of any
specific injury. Mellor v. Spateman, 1 Wins. Saund. 346,
note 2; Woodman v. Tufts, 9 N. H. 91; Snow v. Cowles, 22
N. H. 302; Cowles v. Kidder, 24 N. H. 379; Bassett v. Salisbury
Mfg. Co., 28 N. H. 455. See also Evans v. Merriweather, 38
Am. Dec. 106; Ten Eyck v. Delaware Canal Co., 32 Am. Dec.
232; Miller v. Miller, 39 Am. Dec. 544; Norton v. Valentine,
39 Am. Dec. 220; Elliott v. Fitzbury, 57 Am. Dec. 85; Newhall
v. Iresom, 54 Am. Dec. 794.
Complainant has the right to the use of the Mississippi River
in its natural and accustomed flow. Defendants have no
right to change or alter the velocity of the stream or the
volume of water passing down it. By the increased volume
of water discharged into the Illinois River not only is the
height of the water increased, but also the velocity likewise
becomes much greater, the particular damage resulting to
complainant in this respect being that inasmuch as the velocity of the current and the volume of water is increased, the
longevity of disease-producing organisms is greatly advanced
and the rapidity with which they pass from Chicago to St.
Louis is largely accelerated. As shown by all of the evidence in
the case, this constitutes a material and substantial, in fact, a
great damage and injury to complainant. There is no contrariety of opinion that by the increase in the volume of water
the life of the disease-producing organisms is greatly increased,
and likewise, by the increase of the current, the distance traveled
by pathegenic bacteria within their lifetime is largely extended.
The evidence shows that all the typhoid epidemics of consequence have been produced by infectious water. That at
Washington in 1898, by a typhoid epidemic at Cumberland,
Maryland, 175 miles up the stream; at Detroit, by typhoid

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

germs in the St. Clair River at the mouth of Black River, 67
miles from Detroit; at Lawrence and Newport, where the water
was inducted into large reservoirs and so remained for a period
of from two to three weeks, and yet preserved sufficient of the
typhoid bacteria, alive and virulent, to produce the disease;
at Pittsburg, by typhoidal conditions at Oil City, 113 miles
above.
Cincinnati, Ohio, receives its water supply from the Ohio,
and is known to be infected from the sewers of Pittsburg,
more than 200 miles away; Buffalo, which obtains its water
supply, practically, from the mouth of Lake Erie, suffers with
a high typhoid mortality caused by the sewage discharge into
the lake at Cleveland and other points. Covington, Kentucky,
and New Albany, Indiana, suffer severely from the disease.
At these points the water is pumped into large reservoirs,
where it is confined for more than 30 days, during which time
it retains sufficient germs of the disease that when distributed
to the consumers, typhoid conditions result. Chicago, one
of the greatest typhoid-ridden cities in the United States, takes
its water supply from Lake Michigan, heretofore looked upon
as an acceptable source for pure water. The experience of
the city, however, has demonstrated that the sewage from
Chicago itself has so contaminated and infected the water of
the lake at such distance from the shore so as to render it
questionable whether the intakes could be extended a sufficient distance into the lake to be free from infectious material.
In view of all the unquestionable facts and circumstances
presented by complainant, together with the fact that defendant discharged disease germs into the canal, coupled with
the fact that there has been an increase of 77.7 per cent of
the typhoid mortality in the city of St. Louis, it is apparent
that pathogenic bacteria do pass from Chicago to the Mississippi
River at Grafton and seriously affect the sanitary condition
of complainant's water supply.
One of the most remarkable disclosures in this investigation is found by the discovery of the bacilli of anthrax and

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants.

200 U. S.

tetanus in the waters of the Illinois River. This discovery was
made by Professor Zeit in his bacteriological observations of
the water since the opening of the drainage canal.
Not only has the act of defendants been damaging to the
people of the city of St. Louis, which constitutes one-third of
the population of complainant, but also renders unsuitable
the water supply of the people residing upon the Mississippi
River from a point opposite Grafton to the southern boundary
line of the State.
No objection is made to the construction of the canal or
of the transmission of water of Lake Michigan through it, but
defendant should be restrained from discharging sewage into
it or disinfect it before discharging it therein.
Nor does the fact that certain municipalities of Missouri
discharge sewage into the M'lississippi justify the city of Chicago for doing so through the artificial canal and thus burden the Mississippi River with an inconvenience not contemplated by nature.
Mr. James Todd for the Sanitary District of Chicago. Mr.
HowlandJ. Hamlin, with whom Mr. John G. Drennanand Mr.
W. H. Stead were on the brief, for the State of Illinois:

The following facts are established by the proof:
The water of the Illinois River at Grafton since the opening
of the drainage canal, as disclosed by chemical and bacterial
surveys covering a long period of time, is, if anything, in a
better sanitary condition since the opening of the drainage
canal than it was prior thereto.
The Illinois River at its mouth, from a sanitary standpoint,
based upon chemical and bacterial analyses, is less polluted
and less dangerous to health than is either the Missouri River
or the Mississippi River, and the Illinois River, emptying into
the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers, is contaminated and polluted by these two rivers, instead of contaminating and polluting the combined waters of the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers.
Since the opening of the drainage canal the water of the

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendants.

Illinois River has been improved for agricultural, piscatorial
and manufacturing purposes by virtue of its dilution with the
pure waters of Lake Michigan.
Typhoid conditions existing in the city of St. Louis, as evidenced by its public health statistics, cannot be charged, in
whole or in part, to the sanitary district of Chicago.
That the water supply of St. Louis is polluted and infected
defendants do not deny; but they assert that the infected
material bringing about this condition is derived, not from
Chicago, but from towns, villages and rural communities much
nearer, in point of time, to the St. Louis intake at the Chain
of Rocks.
The evidence in this case establishes affirmatively, beyond
all question, that the number of deaths under the heading
"Typhoid Fever" in the published reports of the Board of
Health of the city of St. Louis, and as employed and used by
the complainant in this controversy to establish their case that
typhoid fever has increased in the city of St. Louis since January, 1900, do not correctly show the typhoid conditions existing
in the city of St. Louis since 1900, or the typhoid conditions
that obtained in St. Louis prior to 1900, for the reason that in
the published reports of the Board of Health of the city of St.
Louis there appears a column of nondescript fevers characterized under the names of intermittent, remittent, typho-malaria,
congestive and simple continued fevers, and under this heading
there appears a definite number of deaths attributed to these
various fevers; and the evidence in this case establishes, beyond
any question, that these nondescript fevers are, in reality,
mainly typhoid fever, and should have been classified under
the heading "Typhoid Fever," and not classified separately as
distinct types of fever, and that only by uniting the deaths reported under the head of typho-malaria, etc., with those reported under typhoid fever can an approximate judgment
of the true typhoid fever mortality in St. Louis be obtained;
that when properly compiled and analyzed the typhoid fever
statistics of the city of St. Louis, as shown in its published

OCTOBER TERMT, 1905.
Argument for Defendants.

200 U. S.

Board of Health reports, do not disclose any real increase of
typhoid fever, or, at most, a doubtful or a halting one, such as
might be expected in a World's Fair city, with a considerable
influx of population that admits of continuous sources of infection. No explosive outbursts of typhoid fever, such as
characterizes water-borne epidemics, followed the opening of
the drainage canal.
The evidence in this case establishes affirmatively, by a
preponderance of the testimony, the following propositions:
(a) The typhoid germ entering the sewers of Chicago will
not survive the journey to the intake tower of the city of St.
Louis in a virulent condition and be able to cause typhoid
fever among the inhabitants of the city of St. Louis.
(b) Typhoid germs from Chicago will not make the journey to the Mississippi River and become a danger and a menace
to the inhabitants of the State of Missouri taking their water
supply from the waters of the Mississippi River.
(c) That the opening of the drainage canal is not a danger
and a menace, present or impending, to the inhabitants of the
State of Missouri taking their water supply from the Mississippi River.
(d) That a typhoid germ leaving the sewers of Chicago, by
way of the drainage canal, will have perished long before
Grafton is reached on the Illinois River.
The necessity of purifying by filtration or other means the
water supply of the city of St. Louis, as the same is derived
from the Mississippi River, existed as far back as 1866, and
was so recognized by the authorities in St. Louis, and has continued to be so recognized up to the present time.
The opening of the drainage canal has in no manner increased the necessity which has heretofore existed for purifying by filtration the water supply of St. Louis, and in the
installation, operation and maintenance of a filtering plant
sufficient to meet the requirements of St. Louis, the opening of
the drainage canal has created no added cost.
The evidence in this case establishes the fact conclusively

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendants.

that the sewage discharged into the Missouri and the Mississippi Rivers by the cities situated within the jurisdiction of
complainant is sufficient of itself to contaminate and infect
the water supply of those cities in Missouri obtaining their
water supply from the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, exclusive of all other sources of contamination or pollution entering
said stream.
There is no testimony offered in evidence in this case showing that any damage has been sustained by complainant, the
State of Missouri, by virtue of the opening of the drainage
canal, much less any that can be measured in dollars and cents.
In the prosecution of the work of the Chicago drainage canal
by the defendant, the sanitary district of Chicago, at an expenditure of over $42,500,000, the complainant had knowledge
of this gTeat public improvement and has stood by in silence
and acquiesced impliedly in its construction. 2 Wood on Nuisances, §§ 804-806; Gould on Waters, §§ 530, 533.
It is the well established doctrine of the Supreme Court of
the United States that laches on the part of the complainant
is a bar to the granting of equitable relief. This is especially
so where the lack of diligence on the part of the complainant
has led the defendant to place himself in a position from which
he cannot escape or recede without great loss and inconvenience.
The question of laches does not depend as does the statute
of limitations upon the fact, that a certain definite time has
elapsed since the cause of action accrued, but whether under
all the circumstances of the particular case plaintiff is chargeable with a want of due diligence in failing to institute proceedings before he did. McKnight v. Taylor, 1 How. 168;
Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87; Tuin Lake Oil Co. v. Marbury,
91 U. S. 587; Hayward v. Elliot National Bank, 96 U. S. 611;
Harwood v. Cincinnati& C. Air Line Co., 17 Wall. 79; Apeidel
v. Henrici, 120 U. S. 377; Galiher v. Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368;
Hammond v. Hopkins, 143 U. S. 224; Willard v. Wood, 164
U. S. 502; Sulliran v. Portland& K. R. Co., 94 U. S. 806; LansvOL. cC- 33

1514

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants.

200 U. S.

dale v. Smith, 106 U. S. 391; Lane & B. Co. v. Locke, 150 U. S.
193; Mackall v. Casilear, 137 U. S. 556; Whitney v. Fox, 166
U. S. 637; Gildersleeve v. New Mexico Min. Co., 161 U. S. 573;
Ware v. Galveston City Co., 146 U. S. 102; Foster v. Mansfield
C. & L. M. R. Co., 146 U. S. 88; Hoyt v. Latham, 143 U. S. 553;
Hanner v. Moulton, 138 U. S. 486; Richards v. Mackall, 124
U. S. 183; Roberts v. Northern P. R. Co., 158 U. S. 1. See
also Wilson v. Anthony, 19 Barb. (Ark.) 16; Taylor v. Adams,
14 Barb. (Ark.) 62; Johnson v. Johnson, 5 Alabama, 90;
Fuson v. Sanger, 2 Ware, 256; Fisher v. Boody, 1 Curtis, 219;
Cholmondy v. Clinton, 2 Jac. & Walk. 141; Smith v. Clay,
Ambler, 645; Johnston v. Standard Mining Co., 148 U. S. 360.
Equity will not interfere to aid a plaintiff who has stood
by in silence and has acquiesced impliedly in the expenditure
of large sums of money by the defendant in the belief that his
work was rightful and would never be interfered with. High
on Injunctions, §§ 618, 643, 884; Wendell v. Van Rensselaer,
1 Johns. Ch. 343; Daugrey v. Topping & Holme, 4 Paige Ch.
93; Town v. Needham & Harvey, 3 Paige Ch. 546; Blanchard
v. Doering, 23 Wisconsin, 200; Sprague v. Steere, 1 R. I. 247;
Patterson v. Hewitt, 55 L. R. A. 658, 662, 670; Swain v. Seamens, 9 Wall. 254, 273, 274; 2 Pomeroy Eq. Jur., §§ 816821; Niven v. Belknap, 2 Johns. N. Y. 572, 588, 589; Rochdale Canal Co. v. King, 2 Simons N. S., 78; Wood v. Sutcliffe,
2 Simons (N. S.), 163; Birmingham Canal Co. v. Lloyd, 18
Ves. 515; Ripon v. Hobart, 3 Mylne & K. 169; Barrett v. Blagrave, 6 Ves. 104; Binney's Case, 2 Bland. Ch. 99; Jacox v.
Clark, Walk. Ch. 249; Gray v. Ohio & Penn. R. R., 1 Grant's
Cases, 412; Dunn v. Sprevier, 7 Ves. 235; Bassett v. Company,
47 N. H. 426; Bliss v. Pritchard,67 Missouri, 181, 190; Landrum v. Union Bank, 63 Missouri, 48. See also Eston v. N. Y.
&L.B.R.R.,24N. J. Eq. 49.
The court of equity will refuse to grant an injunction when
it appears that greater injury and inconvenience will be caused
to the defendant by granting the injunction than will be caused
to the complainant by refusing it.

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendants.

The courts will require a very strong case for the granting
of an injunction which will cause more injury than it will
remedy, and it may be said, as a general rule, that an injunction will not be granted where it will be productive of greater
injury than will result from a refusal of it. This rule is especially applicable when the party applying for an injunction
has by his own laches made it impossible to grant the injunction without infficting serious injury on the party so to be
enjoined. 16 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 363, 364;
Spelling on Extraordinary Relief, §§23, 372; Edwards v.
Allonez Mining Co., 38 Michigan, 46; Clifton v. Dye, 87 Alabama, 468; Richard's Appeal, 57 Pa. St. 114; Hall v. Rood, 39
Michigan, 46; Campbell v. Seaman, 63 N. Y. 568.
A court of equity will not grant an injunction to restrain
a party from committing a nuisance when the evidence shows
that the party complaining is guilty of contributing to the
nuisance of which he complains. If the granting of an injunction will not relieve him from the consequences of his own
acts the injunction will not issue. If the complainant contributes to the conditions which it claims in its bill of complaint will injure it as a State, it cannot obtain equitable. relief.
It is the fundamental principle of equity that "He who
seeks equity must do equity," and out of this grows the maxim
that" He who comes into equity must come with clean hands."
In other words, courts of equity will not enjoin one from
doing a lawful act upon the application of one who, while
claiming said act WIU cause him great and irreparable injury,
is himself contributing to the injurious condition complained
of. In such case the parties are in pari delicto. 11 Paige
Ch. 349.
If the plaintiff himself has contributed to the pollution he
cannot recover against an upper proprietor. Gould on Waters,
§219; Water Supply Co. v. Potwin, 43 Kansas, 408; Ferguson
v. Firmenich Mfg. Co., 77 Iowa, 576. See also Cassady v.
Carenor,37 Iowa, 300; Richards v. Waupun,.59 Wisconsin, 45;
Mowday v. Moore, 133 Pa. St. 598; Comstock v. Johnmon, 46

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants.

200 U. S.

N. Y. 615; Palmer v. Harris, 60 Pa. St. 156; Jack-somnille v.
Doane, 145 Illinois, 23.
The cities, towns and villages in the State of Missouri, situated upon the shore of the Missouri River, which are contributing to the nuisance complained of in this suit, are all agencies
of the State; their acts in so contributing will be imputed to
the State, and it should not be given relief from a condition
to which its agencies are so materially contributing.
An injunction to restrain a nuisance will issue only in a case
where the fact of nuisance is made out upon determinate and
satisfactory evidence. If the evidence be conflicting and the
injury be doubtful, that conflict and doubt will be a ground
for withholding the injunction, and where interposition by
injunction is sought to restrain that which is apprehended
will create a nuisance of which its complainant may complain,
the proof must show such a state of facts as will manifest the
danger to be real and immediate.
A careful consideration of all the testimony fails to establish as a fact that the opening of the drainage canal is a nuisance, causing complainant great and irreparable injury. The
contention made by complainant has not been made out upon
determinate and satisfactory evidence. The evidence is conflicting and the injury doubtful, and consequently complainant
is not entitled to the relief prayed for. The evidence establishes affirmatively that Missouri, as a State, is not injured
or damaged by virtue of the opening of the Chicago drainage
canal, but on the contrary, if there has been an injury established in the evidence in this case as suffered by the inhabitants of the State of Missouri from the use of the waters of
the Mississippi River, that injury has been caused by the inhabitants of the cities, towns and villages within the jurisdiction of complainant who have emptied their sewage into
the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers at points above the places
where the alleged injury is supposed to have existed. The
evidence upon which damage is predicated is speculative and
theoretical, and insufficient to show that the opening of the

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Chicago drainage canal is responsible for the injury complained of.
Mn.

JusTIcE

HoLims delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by the State of Missouri to restrain the
discharge of the sewage of Chicago through an artificial channel
into the Desplaines River, in the State of Illinois. That river
empties into the Illinois River, and the latter empties into the
ississippi at a point about forty-three miles above the city of
St. Louis. It was alleged in the bill that the result of the
threatened discharge would be to send fifteen hundred tons of
poisonous filth daily into the Mississippi, to deposit great quantities of the same upon the part of the bed of the last-named
river belonging to the plaintiff, and so to poison the water of
that river, upon which various of the plaintiff's cities, towns
and inhabitants depended, as to make it unfit for drinking,
agricultural, or manufacturing, purposes. It was alleged that
the defendant Sanitary District was acting in pursuance of a
statute of the State of Illinois and as an agency of that State.
The case is stated at length in 180 U. S. 208, where a demurrrer
to the bill was overruled. A supplemental bill alleges that
since the filing of the original bill the drainage canal has been
opened and put into operation and has produced and is producing all the evils which were apprehended when the injunction first was asked. The answers deny the plaintiff's case,
allege that the new plan sends the water of the Illinois River
into the Mississippi much purer than it was before, that many
towns and cities of the plaintiff along the Missouri and Mississippi discharge their sewage into those rivers, and that if there
is any trouble the plaintiff must look nearer home for the cause.
The decision upon the demurrer discussed mainly the jurisdiction of the court, and, as leave to answer was given when
the demurrer was overruled, naturally there was no very precise consideration of the principles of law to be applied if the
plaintiff should prove its case. That was left to the future

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

with the general intimation that the nuisance must be made
out upon determinate and satisfactory evidence, that it must
not be doubtful and that the danger must be shown to be real
and immediate. The nuisance set forth in the bill was one
which would be of international importance-a visible change
of a great river from a pure stream into a polluted and poisoned
ditch. The only question presented was whether as between
the States of the Union this court was competent to deal with
a situation which, if it arose between independent sovereignties, might lead to war. Whatever differences of opinion there
might be upon matters of detail, the jurisdiction and authority
of this court to deal with such a case as that is not open to
doubt. But the evidence now is in, the actual facts have required for their establishment the most ingenious experiments,
and for their interpretation the most subtle speculations, of
modern science, and therefore it becomes necessary at the present stage to consider somewhat more nicely than heretofore
how the evidence is to be approached.
The first question to be answered was put in the well known
case of the Wheeling bridge. Pennsylvaniav. Wheeling & Belnont Bridge Co., 13 How. 518. In that case, also, there was a
bill brought by a State to restrain a public nuisance, the erection of a bridge alleged to obstruct navigation, and a supplemental bill to abate it after it was erected. The question was
put most explicitly by the dissenting judges but it was accepted
by all as fundamental. The Chief Justice observed that if the
bridge was a nuisance it was an offence against the sovereignty
whose laws had been violated, and he asked what sovereignty
that was. 13 How. 581; Daniel, J., 13 How. 599. See also
Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125. It could not be Virginia,
because that State had purported to authorize it by statute.
The Chief Justice found no prohibition by the United States.
13 How. 580. No third source of law was suggested by any
one. The majority accepted the Cief Justice's postulate, and
found an answer in what Congress had done.
It hardly was disputed that Congress could deal with the

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

matter under its power to regulate commerce. The majority
observed that although Congress had not declared in terms that
a State should not obstruct the navigation of the Ohio, by
bridges, yet it had regulated navigation upon that river in various ways and had sanctioned the compact between Virginia
and Kentucky when Kentucky was let into the Union. By
that compact the use and navigation of the Ohio, so far as the
territory of either State lay thereon, was to be free and common
to the citizens of the United States. The compact, by the sanction of Congress, had become a law of the Union. A state law
which violated it was unconstitutional. Obstructing the navigation of the river was said to violate it, and it was added that
more was not necessary to give a civil remedy for an injury
done by the obstruction. 13 How. 565, 566. At a later stage
of the case, after Congress had authorized the bridge, it was
stated again in so many words that the ground of the former
decision was that "the act of the Legislature of Virginia afforded no authority or justification. It was in conflict with the
acts of Congress, which were the paramount law." 18 How.
421, 430.
In the case at bar, whether Congress could act or not, there
is no suggestion that it has forbidden the action of Illinois.
The only ground on which that State's conduct can be called
in question is one which must be implied from the words of
the Constitution. The Constitution extends the judicial power
of the United States to controversies between two or more
States and between a State and citizens of another State, and
gives this court original jurisdiction in cases in which a State
shall be a party. Therefore, if one State raises a controversy
with another, this court must determine whether there is any
principle of law and, if any, what, on which the plaintiff can
recover. But the fact that this court must decide does not
mean, of course, that it takes the place of a legislature. Some
principles it must have power to declare. For instance, when
a dispute arises about boundaries, this court must determine
the line, and in doing so must be governed by rules explicitly

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

or implicitly recognized. Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12
Pet. 657, 737. It must follow and apply those rules, even if
legislation of one or both of the States seems to stand in the
way. But the words of the Constitution would be a narrow
ground upon which to construct and apply to the relations between States the same system of municipal law in all its details
which would be applied between individuals. If we suppose a
case which did not fall within the pow:er of Congress to regulate,
the result of a declaration of rights by this court would be the
establishment of a rule which would be irrevocable by any
power except that of this court to reverse its own decision, an
amendment of the Constitution, or possibly an agreement between the States sanctioned by the legislature of the United
States.
The difficulties in the way of establishing such a system of
law might not be insuperable, but they would be great and new.
Take the question of prescription in a case like the present.
The reasons on which prescription for a public nuisance is denied or may be granted to an individual as against the sovereign power to which he is subject have no application to an
independent state. See 1 Oppenheim, International Law, 293,
§§ 242, 243. It would be contradicting a fundamental principle of human nature to allow no effect to the lapse of time,
however long, Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451, 457, yet the fixing
of a definite time usually belongs to the legislature rather than
the courts. The courts did fix a time in the rule against perpetuities, but the usual course, as in the instances of statutes
of limitation, the duration of patents,, the age of majority, etc.,
is to depend upon the lawmaking power.
It is decided that a case such as is made by the bill may be
a ground for relief. The purpose of the foregoing observations
is not to lay a foundation for departing from that decision, but
simply to illustrate the great and serious caution with which
it is necessary to approach the question whether a case is
proved. It may be imagined that a nuisance might be created
by a State upon a navigable river like the Danube, which would

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

amount to a casus belli for a State lower down, unless removed.
If such a nuisance were created by a State upon the Alississippi
the controversy would be resolved by the more peaceful means
of a suit in this court. But it does not follow that every matter which would warrant a resort to equity by one citizen
against another in the same jurisdiction equally would warrant
an interference by this court with the action of a State. It
hardly can be that we should be justified in declaring statutes
ordaining such action void in every instance where the Circuit
Court might intervene in a private suit, upon no other ground
than analogy to some selected system of municipal law, and
the fact that we have jurisdiction over controversies between
States.
The nearest analogy would be found in those cases in which
an easement has been declared in favor of land in one State
over land in another. But there the right is recognized on the
assumption of a concurrence between the two States, the one,
so to speak, offering the right, the other permitting it to be
accepted. 3fanville Co. v. Worcester, 138 Massachusetts, 89.
But when the State itself is concerned and by its legislation
expressly repudiates the right set up, an entirely different question is presented.
Before this court ought to intervene the case should be of
serious magnitude, clearly and fully proved, and the principle
to be applied should be one which the court is prepared deliberately to maintain against all considerations on the other side.
See Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125.
As to the principle to be laid down the caution necessary is
manifest. It is a question of the first magnitude whether the
destiny of the great rivers is to be the sewers of the cities along
their banks or to be protected against everything which threatens their purity. To decide the whole matter at one blow by
an irrevocable fiat would be at least premature. If we are to
judge by what the plaintiff itself permits, the discharge of sewage into the Mississippi by cities and towns is to be expected.
We believe that the practice of discharging into the river is

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

general along its banks, except where the levees of Louisiana
have led to a different course. The argument for the plaintiff
asserts it to be proper within certain limits. These are facts
to be considered. Even in cases between individuals some consideration is given to the practical course of events. In the
black country of England parties would not be expected to
stand upon extrene rights. St. Helen's Smelting Co. v. Tipping, 11 H. L. C. 642. See Boston, Ferrule Co. v. Hills, 159.
Massachusetts, 147, 150. Where, as here, the plaintiff has sovereign powers and deliberately permits discharges similar to
those of which it complains, it not only offers a standard to
which the defendant has the right to appeal, but, as some of
those discharges are above the intake of St. Louis, it warrants
the defendant in demanding the strictest proof that the plaintiff's own conduct does not produce the result, or at least so
conduce to it that courts should not be curious to apportion
the blame.
We have studied the plaintiff's statement of the facts in detail and have perused the evidence, but it is unnecessary for
the purposes of decision to do more than give the general result in a very simple way. At the outset we cannot but be
struck by the consideration that if this suit had been brought
fifty years ago it almost necessarily would have failed. There
is no pretence that there is a nuisance of the simple kind that
was known to the older common law. There is nothing which
can be detected by the unassisted senses-no visible increase
of filth, no new smell. On the contrary, it is proved that the
great volume of pure water from Lake Michigan which is mixed
with the sewage at the start has improved the Illinois River in
these respects to a noticeable extent. Formerly it was sluggish and ill smelling. Now it is a comparatively clear stream
to which edible fish have returned. Its water is drunk by the
fishermen,'it is said, without evil results. The plaintiff's case
depends upon an inference of the unseen. It draws the inference from two propositions. First, that typhoid fever has increased considerably since the change and that other expla-

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

nations have been disproved, and second, that the bacillus of
typhoid can and does survive the journey and reach the intake
of St. Louis in the Mississippi.
We assume the now prevailing scientific explanation of typhoid fever to be correct. But when we go beyond that assumption everything is involved in doubt. The data upon
which an increase in the deaths from typhoid fever in St. Louis
is alleged are disputed. The elimination of other causes is
denied. The experts differ as to the time and distance within
which a stream would purify itself. No case of an epidemic
caused by infection at so remote a source is brought forward,
and the cases which are produced are controverted. The plaintiff obviously must be cautious upon this point, for if this suit
should succeed many others would follow, and it not improbably would find itself a defendant to a bill by one or more of
the' States lower down upon the Mississippi. The distance
which the sewage has to travel (357 miles) is not open to debate,
but the time of transit to be inferred from experiments with
floats is estimated at varying from eight to eighteen and a half
days, with forty-eight hours more from intake to distribution,
and when corrected by observations of bacteria is greatly prolonged by the defendants. The experiments of the defendants'
experts lead them to the opinion that a typhoid bacillus could
not survive the journey, while those on the other side maintain
that it might live and keep its power for twenty-five days or
more, and arrive at St. Louis. Upon the question at issue,
whether the new discharge from Chicago hurts St. Louis, there
is a categorical contradiction between the experts on the two
sides.
The Chicago drainage canal was opened on January 17, 1900.
The deaths from typhoid fever in St. Louis, before and after that
date, are stated somewhat differently in different places. We
give them mainly from the plaintiff's brief: 1890, 140; 1891,
165; 1892, 441; 1893, 215; 1894, 171; 1895, 106; 1896, 106;
1897, 125; 1898, 95; 1899, 131; 1900, 154; 1901, 181; 1902,
216; 1903, 281. It is argued for the defendant that the num-

OCTOBER TERTM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

bers for the later years have been enlarged by carrying over
eases which in earlier years would have been put into a miscellaneous column (intermittent, remittent, typho-malaria, etc.,
etc.), but we assume that the increase is real. Nevertheless,
comparing the last four years with the earlier ones, it is obvious
that the ground for a specific inference is very narrow, if we
stopped at this point. The plaintiff argues that the increase
must be due to Chicago, since there is nothing corresponding
to it in the watersheds of the Missouri or Mississippi. On the
other hand, the defendant points out that there has been no
such enhanced rate of typhoid on the banks of the Illinois as
would have been found if the opening of the drainage canal
were the true cause.
Both sides agree that the detection of the typhoid bacillus in
the water is not to be expected. But the plaintiff relies upon
proof that such bacilli are discharged into the Chicago sewage
in considerable quantities; that the number of bacilli in the
water of the Illinois is much increased, including the bacillus
coli communis, which is admitted to be an index of contamination, and that the chemical analyses lead to the same inference.
To prove that the typhoid bacillus could make the journey an
experiment was tried with the bacillus prodigiosus,which seems
to have been unknown, or nearly unknown, in these waters.
After preliminary trials, in which these bacilli emptied into the
Mississippi near the mouth of the Illinois were found near the
St. Louis intake and in St. Louis in times varying from three
days to a month, one hundred and seven barrels of the same,
said to contain one thousand million bacilli to the cubic centimeter, were put into the drainage canal near the starting point
on November 6, and on December 4 an example was found at
the St. Louis intake tower. Four others were found on the
three following days, two at the tower and two at the mouth
of the Illinois. As this bacillus is asserted to have about the
same length of life in sunlight in living waters as the bacills
typhosus, although it is a little more hardy, the experiment is
thought to prove one element of the plaintiff's case, although

MISSOURI v. ILLINOIS.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the very small number found in many samples of water is
thought by the other side to indicate that practically no typhoid germs would get through. It seems to be conceded that
the purification of the Illinois by the large dilution from Lake
Michigan (nine parts or more in ten) would increase the danger,
as it now generally is believed that the bacteria of decay, the
saprophytes, which flourish in stagnant pools, destroy the pathogenic germs. Of course the addition of so much water to the
Illinois also increases its speed.
On the other hand, the defendant's evidence shows a reduction in the chemical and bacterial accompaniments of pollution
in a given quantity of water, which would be natural in view
of the mixture of nine parts to one from Lake Michigan. It
affirms that the Illinois is better or no worse at its mouth than
it was before, and makes it at least uncertain how much of the
present pollution is due to Chicago and how much to sources
further down, not complained of in the bill. It contends that
if any bacilli should get through they would be scattered and
enfeebled and would do no harm. The defendant also sets
against the experiment with the bacillus prodigiosus a no less
striking experiment with typhoid germs suspended in the Illinois River in permeable sacs. According to this the duration
of the life of these germs has been much exaggerated, and in
that water would not be more than three or four days. It is
suggested, by way of criticism, that the germs may not have
been of normal strength, that the conditions were less favorable than if they had floated down in a comparatively unchanging body of water, and that the germs may have escaped, but
the experiment raises at least a serious doubt. Further, it
hardly is denied that there is no parallelism in detail between
the increase and decrease of typhoid fever in Chicago and St.
Louis. The defendants' experts maintain that the water of
the Missouri is worse than that of the Illinois, while it contributes a much larger proportion to the intake. The evidence is
very strong that it is necessary for St. Louis to take preventive
measures, by filtration or otherwise, against the dangers of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

plaintiff's own creation or from other sources than Illinois.
What will protect against one will protect against another.
The presence of causes of infection from the plaintiff's action
makes the case weaker in principle as well as harder to prove
than one in which all came from a single source.
Some stress was laid on the proposition that Chicago is not
on the natural watershed of the Mississippi, because of a rise
of a few feet between the Desplaines and the Chicago Rivers.
We perceive no reason for a distinction on this ground. The
natural features relied upon are of the smallest. And if under
any circumstances they could affect the case, it is enough to
say that Illinois brought Chicago into the Mississippi watershed
in pursuance not only of its own statutes, but also of the acts
of Congress of March 3O, 1822, c. 14, 3 Stat. 659, and March 2,
1827, c. 51, 4 Stat. 234, the validity of which is not disputed.
Wisconsin v. Duluth, 96 U. S. 379. Of course these acts do not
grant the right to discharge sewage, but the case stands no differently in point of law from a suit because of the discharge
from Peoria into the Illinois, or from any other or all the other
cities on the banks of that stream.
We might go more into detail, but we believe that we have
said enough to explain our point of view and our opinion of the
evidence as it stands. What the future may develop of course
we cannot tell. But our conclusion upon the present evidence
is that the case proved falls so far below the allegations of the
bill that it is not brought within the principles heretofore established in the cause.
Bill dismissed without prejudice.

