OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

200 U ".

There is also an assignment of error upon the refusal of the
Supreme Court to make certain findings of fact. We think the
findings made substantially cover those proposed, certainly to
the extent necessary to the case as we have considered it.
Judgment affirmed.

GRAHAM, COUNTY AUDITOR FOR GREENWOOD
COUNTY, v. FOLSOM.
ERROR TO THE CIRC'UIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATEZ FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 108. Argued December S. 1905.-Decided January 8, 1906.
The power of the State to alter or destroy its municipal corporations is not,
so far as the impairment of the obligation clause of the Federal Constitution is concerned, greater than the power to repeal its legislation; and
the alteration or destruction of subordinate governmental divisions is
not the proper exercise of legislative power when it impairs the obligations of contracts previously entered into.
Courts cannot permit themselves to be deceived; and while they will not
inquire too closely into the motives of the State they will not ignore the
effect of its action, and wKl not permit the obligation of a contract to be
impaired by the abolition or change of the boundaries of a municipality. Where a tax has been provided for and there are officers to collect it the court will direct those officers to lay the tax and collect it from
the property within the boundaries of the territory that constituted the
municipality.
A suit to compel county officers to levy and collect a tax on property
within the county to pay bonds of a municipality is not, under the circumstances of this case, a suit against the State, either because those
officers are also state officers, or because the bonds were issued under
legislative authority.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. Barron Grier and Mr. Joseph A. McCullough, with
whom Mr. J. B. Parks was on the blief, for plaintiffs in error.

GRAHAM v. FOLSOM.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. R. E. L. Mountcastle and Mr. H. J. Haynsworth for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTICE MOcKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings up for review the judgment of the
Circuit Court in mandamus, requiring plaintiffs in error to assess and collect taxes to pay a judgment recovered by defendant in error against Township Ninety-six, for certain bonds
issued by it in aid of the Greenville and Port Royal Railroad
Company. In Folsom v. Ninety Six, 159 U. S. 611, the bonds
were declared valid obligations of the township. In accordance with the opinion in that case judgment was entered in
favor of the suing bondholders. Defendants in error are owners of that judgment. The legislation which authorized the
issue of the bonds is recited in Folsom v. Ninety Six, and need
not be repeated at length. We may say, however, that the
act incorporating the railroad empowered townships interested
in its construction to subscribe for its capital stock such sum
as the majority of the voters, voting at an election held for
that purpose, might authorize, and it was provided (section 9)
that "the county auditor or other officers discharging such
duties, or the city or town treasurer, as the case may be, shall be
authorized and required to assess annually upon the property
of said county, city, town or township such per centum as
may be necessary to pay said interest of said sum of money
subscribed, which shall be known and styled in the tax book as
said railroad tax, which shall be collected by the treasurer under the same regulations as are provided by law for the collection of taxes in any of the counties, cities, towns or townships so subscribing." 19 Stat. S. Car. (1885) 237, 240.
In 1895 South Carolina adopted a new constitution, by which
it was provided that the several townships of the State, with
names and boundaries as then established, should continue,
with power, however, in the legislature, to form other townships or change the boundaries of those established. Art. VII.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

This section, by an amendment finally adopted in 1903, was
made inapplicable to certain townships, including Ninety-six.
It was provided that "the corporate existence of the said townships be, and the same is, hereby destroyed, and all offices in
said townships are abolished and all corporate agents removed." 24 Stat. S. Car. (1903) 3.
At the time of the execution of the bonds Township Ninetysix was situated in Abbeville County, and in 1896 the county
of Greenwood was organized out of portions of Abbeville and
Edgefield Counties, and Township Ninety-six was included in
Greenwood County.
The officers of the latter county refused to assess and collect
the taxes, contending that they are not officers of the county,
but officers of the State, appointed by the Governor of the
State, and are termed county officers because assigned to duty
in that county, but cannot exercise any function of those offices except as authorized by the laws of the State, and that
they have been forbidden by an act of the general assembly of
the State to assess or collect taxes for the payment of subscriptions by townships to the building of roads which have
not been buht. 23 Stat. S. Car. (1899) 78.
Against this defence defendants in error invoke the contract

clause of the Constitution of the United States.
As we have seen, the validity of the bonds was decided in
Folsom v. Ninety Six, supra; in other words, they were decided
to be the contracts of the township, and that the acts which
authorized their issue constituted their obligation. In this the
court announced and applied the principle of many cases which
are too familiar to need especial citation.
Plaintiffs in error yield to the case of Folsom v. Ninety Six,
but contend that it is open to inquiry what officers, under the
act authorizing the bonds, were the corporate agents or officers
of the township, and, answering the inquiry, say the county
commissioners were such agents and officers, not the county
auditor and county treasurer, and that, it is contended, the
Circuit Court has so decided. The distinction that plaintiffs

GRAHAM v. FOLSOM.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contend for, based on the opinion of the court, is merely verbal.
The court distinguished the duties of the commissioners from
those of the auditor and treasurer, and expressed with emphasis the continuing duty of the latter. The court said: "If the
contention that the legislature had the right to destroy the
corporate existence of the township be true, we are nevertheless confronted with the fact that the instrumentalities and
means employed by the legislature, in this instance, for the
purpose of enforcing the collection of a tax, are still unimpaired."
The purpose of the court, therefore, was to point out the
temporary duties of the commissioners and to emphasize the
permanent duties of the auditor and treasurer as instrumentalities of the law, with a continuing power to give its remedy
and protection to the bonds, "independent of the existence of
the township." And there can be do doubt about this from
the words of the statute.
It is further contended that the action of the court in issuing
the writ disregarded article IX of the constitution of 1868,
entitled "Finance and Taxation." Section 8 of the article
provides "That the corporate authorities of counties, townships, school districts, cities, towns and villages may be vested
with power to assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes.
)" And the further limitation of the power of municipal corporations to levy and assess taxes, expressed in section 6, article X, of the constitution of 1895, to wit, "For
educational purposes, to build and repair public roads, buildings and bridges, to maintain and support prisoners, to pay
jurors, county officers, and for litigation, quarantine and court
expenses, and for ordinary county purposes, to support paupers
and pay past indebtedness."
The argument is that "the 'corporate authorities' of the
county cannot be vested with power to assess and collect a tax
for township purposes, nor vice versa. That power can only
be delegated to the authorities of the body contracting or
about to contract the debt." And this argument, it is con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

tended, is not opposed to Folsom v. Ninety Six. There, it is
said, the validity of the bonds was established, but it was not
decided that the "corporate authorities" of the township might
be vested with power to assess and collect a tax to pay them.
Here the question is, can the auditor and treasurer, who are
state officers, be made to assess and collect a tax which, under
the constitution and laws of the State, can only be done by the
"corporate authorities" of the township?
Plaintiffs' construction of the case of Folsom v. Ninety Six
is too limited. It takes from the case about all of its value.
The case decided that the bonds were issued for corporate purposes and established them as a valid indebtedness of the township. It proclaimed the validity of the laws under which the
bonds were issued and made those laws and every part of them
the contract with the bondholders. It did not occur to any
one to urge that, because the legislature might vest the township authorities with the power to assess and collect taxes,
such power could not be vested in county officers. By clear
implication the contrary is decided in State v. Whitesides, 30
S. Car. 579; State v. Harper, 30 S. Car. 586; State v. Neely,
30 S. Car. 587. The offices of auditor and treasurer still exist,
and through them taxes are assessed and collected in the State
of South Carolina. The case at bar is not, therefore, like Heine
v. Levee Commission, 19 Wall. 655, or Meri-weather v. Garrett,
102 U. S. 472, 498. It is like Von Hoffman v. Quincy, 4 Wall.
535; City of Galena v. Amy, 5 Wall. 705; Seibert v. Lewis,
122 U. S. 284; Mobile v. Watson, 116 U. S. 289, and many
others.
But plaintiffs in error urge other defenses: (a) By an amendment of the constitution in 1903 the corporate existence of
Township Ninety-six was destroyed, its offices abolished and
all its corporate agents were removed. (b) By an act of the
legislature Township Ninety-six was included in Greenwood
County. At the time the bonds were issued it was situated in
Abbeville County. (c) Plaintiffs in error are forbidden by the
laws of the State from assessing and collecting taxes for Ninety-

GRAHAM v. FOLSOM.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

six Township, and have no power to perform the acts enjoined
upon them by the judpgnent of the Circuit Court.
These defenses differ only in form from those which this court
held insufficient in the cases to which we have referred, and
they acquire no sanctifying power because one of them, or all
of them, may be said to rest upon the constitution of the State.
This indeed is not denied. It is asserted that the obligation
of the contract is unimpaired; that the State has done nothing
but exercise an unquestionable right-the right to alter or destroy its corporations.
The power of the State to alter or destroy its corporations
is not greater than the power of the State to repeal its legislation. Exercise of the latter power has been repeatedly held to
be ineffectual to impair the obligation of a contract. The repeal of a law may be more readily undertaken than the abolition
of townships or the change of their boundaries or the boundaries of counties. The latter may put on the form of a different
purpose than the violation of a contract. But courts cannot
permit themselves to be deceived. They will not inquire too
closely into the motives of the State, but they will not ignore
the effect of its action. The cases illustrate this. There may
indeed be a limitation upon the power of the court. This was
seen and expressed in Heine v. Levee Commission, and Meriweather v. Garrett, supra. There is no limitation in the case at
bar. A tax has been provided for and there are officers whose
duty it is to assess and collect it. A court is within the line
of its duty and powers when it directs those officers to the
performance of their duty; and their objects upon which the
tax can be laid. It is the property within the boundaries of
the territory that constituted Township Ninety-six.
Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514, and Mobile v.
Watson, 116 U. S. 289, are cases in which municipal corporations had incurred indebtedness, and afterward their municipal
organization was destroyed and their territory added to other
municipalities. It was argued in those cases, as it is argued in
this, that such alteration or destruction of the subordinate gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

ernmental divisions was a proper exercise of legislative power,
to which creditors had to submit. The argument did not prevail. It was answered, as we now answer it, that such power,
extensive though it is, is met and overcome by the provision
of the Constitution of the United States which forbids a State
from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
See also Shapleigh v. San Angelo, 167 U. S. 646. And this is
not a limitation, as plaintiffs in error seem to think it is, of the
legislative power over subordinate municipalities-either over
their change or destruction. It only prevents the exercise of
that power being used to defeat contracts previously entered
into.
It is further contended by plaintiffs in error that this is in
effect a suit against the State. The argument to support this
contention is that if the auditor and treasurer are not corporate
authorities, as it is insisted the Circuit Court decided, they are
necessarily "state officers, and, being state officers, this proceeding is an attempt to require of the State the performance
of her contract." The reasoning by which this is attempted
to be sustained is rather roundabout. It is based in part on
distinctions which, it is contended, were made by the Circuit
Court, and on the assumption that the Circuit Court decided
that the levy of taxes prescribed by section nine of the statute
under which the bonds were issued, was a levy by the legislature and the taxing officers state officers. This proceeding
hence, it is argued, becomes a proceeding against the State,
and "the relief sought is to require of the State the performance of her contract" (italics ours) by the coercion of her officers
to the preformance of duties which she has by a statute forbidden. And, it is said, it may be admitted that such statute
"is unconstitutional and therefore void," nevertheless the relief asked against the officers is " affirmative official action,"
which the political body of which they are the mere servants
has forbidden them to exercise, and it is not competent for a
court to compel them to exercise, because of the immunity of
the State from suit under the Constitution of the United States.

CARTER v. HAWAII.
200 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

To sustain these contentions an elaborate argument is presented and a number of cases are cited. The most direct of
the cases are Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 711; Hagood v.
South r, 117 U. S. 52; Rolston v. Missouri Fund Commrs.,
120 U. S. 390, 411; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443; Pennoyer v.
McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1. It would make this opinion too
long to review these cases. Nor is it necessary. It is enough
to say that they do not sustain the contentions of plaintiffs in
error.
Judgment affirmed.

CARTER v. HAWAII.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF HAWAII.
No. 144. Argued December 13, 1905.-Decided January 8, 1906.
Damon v. Hawaii, 194 U. S. 154, followed to effect that under the Hawaiian
Act of 1846, "of Publicand Private Right of Piscary," the owner of an
ahnpuaa is entitled to the adjacent fishing ground within the reef, and that
the statute created vested rights therein within the saving clause of the
organic act of the Territory repealing all laws of the Republic of Hawaii
conferring exclusive fishing rights.
The Land Commission of Hawaii was established to determine title to lands
against the Hawaiian Government, and, as that Commission rightly
treated fisheries as not within its jurisdiction, the omission to establish
the right to a fishery before that Commission does not prejudice the
right of the owner thereto.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Sidney M. Ballou, with whom Mr. Benjamin L. Marx
and Mr. J. J. Darlingtonwere on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Emil C. Peters, Attorney General of the Territory of

