OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

200 U. S.

the facts constituted such preference, even although the evidence justified the inference that the money which the City
Deposit Bank received from the clearing house association,
under the circumstances we have stated, was the property of
Reinhard & Company, which the bank by operation of the
bankrupt law was obliged to account for to the bankrupt esstate. We so conclude, because the Supreme Court of Ohio
not only certified that its decision "was adverse to the claims
and contentions of the said plaintiffs in error, in this, that said
court decided that said assignment and transfer of said sum
of $1,161.74 was not an unlfaful preference, in violation of the
said provisions of the bankrupt law," but in addition, moreover, certified that the case was decided against the trustees,
because under the facts proved the trustee "was not deprived
of any right under said (bankrupt) law, and was not entitled
to have said assignment and transfer set aside, and to recover
the said sum of $1,161.74 from said defendant in error."
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio must be reversed
and the cause be remanded to that court for further proceedings, not inconsistent with this opinion.

RECTOR v. COMIERCIAL NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 138. Submitted December 12, 1905.-Decided February 19, 1906.
Rector v. City Deposit Ba k, ante, p. 405, followed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. D. F. Pugh and Mr. Fred C. Rector for plaintiff in error.
Mr. F. F. D. Albery for defendant in error.

RECTOR v. COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK.
200 U. S.

421

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is governed by the principles which controlled the
decision just announced in the case of the same plaintiff in
error against the City Deposit Bank Company, No. 137.
In the trial court judgment was prayed for $970.45, on the
ground that on April 10, 1900, that amount of money, the
property of Reinhard & Company, had been by that firm
transferred to the defendant in error, and that the transaction
constituted a voidable preference. The answer was in substance a general denial of the allegations of the petition in the
particulars just stated.
The case was subnitted to the court upon the pleadings and
the following agreed statement of facts:
"For ten years or more prior to April 10, 1900, IReinhard &
Company kept an open account with the Commercial National
Bank, depositing their outside items on places where they had
no correspondent, for the purpose of saving themselves the
exchange or collection charges on some of these items. The
balance with the Commercial National Bank on the morning
of April 10, 1900, was ten hundred and sixty-seven and 76-100
dollars ($1,067.76). On that morning John G. Reinhard came
to the Commercial National Bank with Reinhard & Company's
draft on New York for two thousand ($2,000.00) dollars, for
which the Commercial National Bank gave him the currency.
This money was used by Reinhard & Company to pay checks
drawn on them, and was paid out over their counter on April 10
to their customers.
"At 12.15 o'clock, P.1I., on said day, Reinhard & Company,
a partnership, composed of John G. Reinhard and Henry A.
Reinhard, said partnership and each of said partners being then
insolvent, fied a deed of assignment in the probate court of
Franklin County, Ohio, and at about the same hour and afternoon of said day their banking house was closed, at the same
time each of said partners filed deeds of assignment.
"The following day a petition was filed in the District Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio by
certain creditors, alleging that said assignment was an act of
bankruptcy; and thereafter such proceedings were had that
said Reinhard & Company were on August 11, 1900, adjudged
bankrupt, and the plaintiff became their trustee, pending which
election of trustee one Walter Zinn was appointed and acted
as receiver of Reinhard & Company, but the fact of such insolvency and the making of said assignment were not known
to said The Commercial National Bank except by hearsay until
after said amount of two thousand ($2,000.00) dollars was
charged back on the account of Reinhard & Company, and
until after it had received the check of the manager of the
clearing house for said sum of nine hundred and seventy and
45-100 ($970.45) dollars.
"During said day of April 10, 1900, the Commercial National
Bank learned by street rumor that Reinhard & Company's
draft on New York would probably not be paid, and it charged
the same back on the account of Reinhard & Company, which
overdrew their account nine hundred and thirty-two and
24-100 ($932.24) dollars.
"On the tenth day of April, 1900, Reinhard & Company
sent their representative to the clearing house as usual at
12.30 P. i. They received checks from the clearing house as
usual, which their representative took back to their bank, and
the checks which they brought to the clearing house were
cleared on the respective banks as usual in all cases. Then
about one o'clock P. iAi., after the manager of the clearing house
had made his adjustment of balances for the day and had made
out the checks to pay for the same, Reinhard's representative
brought back the checks which the different banks of the clearing house had cleared on them that day.
"The manager took these cheeks back to the different banks
that had cleared them and deducted the amounts of their cleardue to Reinhard
ings that day. This left a balance of 8& Company from the clearing house for that day. Out of this
to the City Deposit Bank,
balance he gave a check for $-

RECTOR v. COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK.
200 U. S.

423

Opinion of the Court.

and for the balance of $970.45 he gave a check to the Commercial National Bank.
"When Mr. Field, the manager of the clearing house, went
to the Commercial National Bank to return the checks which
they had cleared on Reinhard & Company that day he informed
Mr. Hoffman, the cashier, that that bank had suspended, and
that he had a balance on hand due Reinhard & Company of
of which he was going to pay to the City Deposit
$$S-,
Bank, leaving a balance of 8970.45 due the said Reinhard &
Company, which he did not know what to do with. Mr. Hoffman informed him that he had advanced Reinhard & Company $2,000.00 on that morning and suggested that he pay
the balance to him. He agreed to this and gave him the check
as suggested. Said amount was credited by the Commercial
National Bank to Reinhard & Company, leaving a balance, as
shown by the books of the Commercial National Bank, due
from said bank to Reinhard & Company of thirty-eight and
21-100 ($38.21) dollars, which amount was paid over to Walter
Zinn, as receiver of Reinhard & Company, upon his check as
such receiver, drawn on the Commercial National Bank on the
sixteenth day of May, 1900."
Judgment was entered against the trustee, and that judgment was affirmed by the appellate courts. The Supreme
Court of Ohio entered upon its journal a certificate, made by
its Chief Justice, which is precisely like that set out in the
opinion delivered in the City Deposit Bank case.
A motion assailing the power of this court to entertain this
writ of error is overruled, for the reasons given in passing upon
a similar motion filed in case No. 137. And, applying the principles announced in the case just referred to, it inevitably follows that the payment made on April 10, 1900, by the clearing
house association, out of the credits of Reinhard & Company
in the hands of the clearing house association, was a transfer
of property belonging to Reinhard & Company which the
trustee in bankruptcy was entitled to demand and receive from
the defendant in error. We need not dwell upon the conten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

tion made in argument that because the defendant in error on
the morning of April 10, 1900, gave Reinhard & Company two
thousand dollars in currency in return for Reinhard & Company's draft on New York for a like sum, the transaction, even
if fraudulent, invested the defendant in error with the right,
upon the suspension of Reinhard & Company, to appropriate
any property belonging to Reinhard & Company which they
might be able to possess themselves of and to apply the same
in reduction of the advance made upon the security of the
draft. The doctrine of rescission and following of trust funds
can have no application, especially when, as expressly agreed
in the statement of facts, the money which the defendant in
error gave to Reinhard & Company in exchange for its draft
"was used by Reinhard & Company to pay checks drawn on
them, and was paid out over their counter on April 10, 1900,
to their customers."
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio must be reversed
and the case remanded to that court for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

