OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

late as money, and therefore do not fall within the letter of
the statute, the reasons that apply to that class of obligations
we think apply with equal force to checks intended for immediate payment, though not intended to circulate as money.
While the checks are obligations of the United States and
within the letter of ยง 3701, they are not within its spirit, and
are proper subjects of taxation.
Had the plaintiff drawn the money upon them immediately,
it would have become at once a part of the general property
of the bank, and the fact that the money had been derived
from the United States and paid to the bank as interest on its
obligations would not have prevented its becoming part of
the general property of the bank, and subject to state taxation.
A/firmed.

MARTIN v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS.
No. 170.

Submitted January 25, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.

While an accused person of African descent on trial in a state court is entitled under the Constitution of the United States to demand that in
organizing the grand jury, and empanelling the petit jury, there shall
be no exclusion of his race on account of race and color, such discrimination cannot be established by merely proving that no one of his race was
on either of the juries; and motions to quash, based on alleged discriminations of that nature, must be supported by evidence introduced or by
an actual offer of proof in regard thereto. Smith v. Mississippi, 162
U. S. 592, 600, followed.
An accused person cannot of right demand a mixed jury some of which
shall be of his race, nor is a jury of that kind guaranteed by the Fourteeath Amendment to any race.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

MARTIN v. TEXAS.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. Watson E. Coleman, Mr. 0. P. Easterwood and Mr. 0. E.
Smith for plaintiff in error:
Whenever by any action of a State, whether through its legislature, courts, executive or administrative officers, all persons
of the African race are excluded, solely because of race and
color, from serving as grand jurors in the criminal prosecution
of a person of that race, the equal protection of the laws is
denied to him, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment. Carter
v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442; and see Strauder v. West Virginia,
100 U. S. 303; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Gibson v.
Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565; Wood v. Brush, 140 U. S. 278;
Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226.
Mr. Robert V. Davidson,Attorney Gen. of the State of Texas,
Mr. C. K. Bell and Mr. Claude Pollard for defendant in error:
As the motions to quash were based on allegations of fact not
in the record and controverted by the attorney for the State,
they must be supported by evidence. Smith v. Mississippi,
162 U. S. 592, 601; Williams v. Mississippi, 170 U. S. 213;
Carterv. Texas, 177 U. S. 442.
A motion to quash an indictment against a person of African
descent on the ground that it was found by a grand jury from
which persons of accused's race were excluded, because of their
race, can be sustained only by evidence independent of the facts
stated in the motion. Smith v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 592;
Bush v. Kentucky, 107 U. S. 110; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S.
313, 339; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370.
Plaintiff in error is not entitled, as a matter of constitutional
right, to have his race represented upon the grand jury that
may indict, or the petit jury that may try, him. Jugiro v.
Brush, 140 U. S. 291; Wood v. Brush, 140 U. S. 276.
Plaintiff in error should have presented the question for decision to the highest court of the State having jurisdiction of
criminal cases; failing to do so, he can not have the adverse decision of the District Court of this State reviewed here. In re
Wood, 140 U. S. 278; Ewing v. Howard, 7 Wall. 503.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN

200 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

By an indictment returned in the District Court of Tarrant
County, Texas, the plaintiff in error was charged with the crime
of murder. Having been duly arraigned and pleaded not guilty,
the accused (a negro) moved to quash the indictment, on the
ground, stated in writing under oath, that all persons of the African race had been excluded from the grand jury, because of
their race, although about one-fourth of the inhabitants of the
county, competent under the law to act as grand jurors, were
of that race. The facts upon which the motion was based were
set out, and the accused, in the written motion, prayed tlt
testimony be heard in support of its grounds. The State's attorney, in writing, denied such discrimination and offered to
prove that only about one hundred and fifty persons of the African race in the county, as compared with twelve thousand
whites, were competent under the law to act as grand jurors.
The accused then moved in writing, verified by his oath, to
quash the panel of petit jurors, upon the ground that from the
panel had been excluded all persons of the African race, because
of their race, although about one-fourth of the persons in the
county competent under the law to serve as jurors were of that
race. The facts set out in that motion were also denied in
writing by the State's attorney.
Both motions were overruled by the court, the accused excepting. There was a verdict of guilty of murder in the first
degree, and the accused was sentenced to suffer death. The
judgment of conviction was affirmed in the Court of Criminal
Appeals, the highest court of the State in which a decision of
the case could be had. One of the assignments of error in that
court was the overruling of the motion to quash the indictment,
but no error was there assigned in respect of the overruling of
the motion to quash the panel of petit jurors.
It is not contended that the constitution or laws of Texas
authorized any discrimination, on account of race merely, in
the selection of grand or petit jurors. Nor is it contended that

MARTIN v. TEXAS.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the prescribed qualifications for jurors were not appropriate in
order to secure an impartial jury for the trial of an accused.
Nevertheless, if upon the hearing of the written motion to quash
the indictment, the facts stated in the motion had been established by affirmative proof, or if the trial court had refused to
admit evidence to prove them, we should not hesitate to reverse the judgment. For, it is the settled doctrine of this court
that "whenever by any action of a State, whether through its
legislature, through its courts, or through its executive or aduinistrative officers, all persons of the African race are excluded, solely because of their race or color, from serving as
grand jurors in the criminal prosecution of a person of the African race, the equal protection of the laws is denied to him,
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States." Carter v. Texas, 177 U. S. 442, 447;
Strauder v. West Virginia, 100 U. S. 303; Neal v. Delaware, 103
U. S. 370, 397; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S. 565; Rogers v.
Alabama, 192 U. S. 226, 231. So if, upon the hearing of the
written motion to quash the panel of the petit jurors, facts
stated in that nmotion had been proved, or if the opportunity
to establish them by evidence had been denied to the accused,
the judgment would be reversed.
But the record before us makes no such case. Although the
accused in each of his written motions prayed the court to hear
evidence thereon, it does not appear that he introduced any
evidence whatever to prove discrimination against his race,
because of their color, or made any actual offer of evidence in
support of either motion. The reasonable inference from the
record is that he did not offer any evidence on the charge of
discrimination, but was content, to rely simply on his verified
written motions, although the facts stated in them were controverted by the State. The trial court, it must be assumed
from the record, had nothing before it, when deciding the motions to quash, except the written motions and the written
answers thereto. In Charley Smith v. Mississippi, 162 U. S.
592, 600, 601-which was a prosecution of a negro for the crime

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
200 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

of murder-it appeared that the accused, upon grounds stated
in writing and similar to those assigned in this case, moved to
quash the indictment. He moved, also, upon similar grounds,
in writing, to quash the panel of petit jurors. Each motion
was overruled. This court said: "No evidence was offered in
support of the motion by the accused to quash the indictment,
unless the facts set out in the written motion to quash, verified
'to the best of his knowledge and belief,' can be regarded as
evidence in support of the motion. We are of opinion that it
could not properly be so regarded.

.

.

.

The facts stated

in the written motion to quash, although that motion was verified by the affidavit of the accused, could not be used as evidence to establish those facts, except with the consent of the
state prosecutor or by order of the trial court. No such consent was given. No such order was made. The grounds assigned for quashing the indictment should have been sustained
by distinct evidence introduced or offered to be introduced by
the accused. He could not, of right, insist that the facts stated
in the motion to quash should be taken as true simply because
his motion was verified by his affidavit. The motion to quash
was, therefore, unsupported by any competent evidence; consequently, it cannot be held to have been erroneously denied."
To the same effect were Tarrancev. Florida,188 U. S. 519, 521,
and Browvfield v. South Carolina, 189 U. S. 426, 428. The
present case cannot be distinguished from the Smith case; and
we are unable to hold, upon this record, that it was error to
overrule the motions to quash; for, as already stated, it does
not appear that the facts stated in those motions were established by evidence, or that the accused, after filing his motions,
made any separate offer to prove them by witnesses or was
denied the opportunity to make such proof.
A different conclusion in this case would mean that, in a
criminal prosecution of a negro for crime, an allegation of discrimination against the African race, because of their race,
could be established by simply proving that no one of that race
was on the grand jury that returned the indictment or on the

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT LUMBER CO.

321

Syllabus.

200 U. S.

petit jury that tried the accused; whereas, a mixed jury, some
of which shall be of the same race with the accused, cannot be
demanded, as of right, in any case, nor is a jury of that character guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. What an
accused is entitled to demand, under the Constitution of the
United States, is that in organizing the grand jury as well as
in the empaneling of the petit jury, there shall be no exclusion
of his race, and no discrimination against them, because of
their race or color. Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 323; In
re Wood, 140 U. S. 278, 285. Whether such discrimination
was practiced in this case could have been manifested only by
proof overcoming the denial on the part of the State of the
facts set out in the written motions to quash. The absence of
any such proof from the record in this case is fatal to the charge
of the accused that his rights under the Fourteenth Amendment were violated.

Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. DETROIT TIMBER AND LUMIBER
COMPANY.
MARTIN-ALEXANDER LUMBER COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL AND CROSS APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 106, 165.

Argued December 7, 1905.-Deeided February 19, 1906.

The rule of law concerning good faith is the same in respect to purchases
of land and timber as that which obtains in other commercial transactions,
and no one is bound to assume that the party with whom he deals is a
wrongdoer; but, on paying full value for the property presented, the title
to which is apparently valid and in regard to which there are no suspicioum circumstant-es, he will acquire the rights of a bona fide purchaser.
Equiiy looks at the substance and not at the mere form in which a transaction takes place, and constructive fraud in the entries of land pur-

VOL. CC-21

