OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

amount which would render it unprofitable to operate the road.
There is no allegation of that kind in this bill, and no evidence
that the reduction of the school tickets in question would
seriously impair its revenues. Indeed, it was found in the opinion of the court below that it was not contended there, and
that there was nothing in the evidence tending to show, that
the rate of fare claimed by the appellee under the act of 1903
is not such as to leave to the company a sufficient income to
pay for repairs and a fair income on its investment.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals is
Affirmed.

HIBERNIA SAVINGS & LOAN SOCIETY v. SAN FRANCISCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 154.

Submitted December 14, 1905.-Decided January 29, 1906.

The principle that the States cannot tax official agencies of the Federal
Government does not apply to obligations such as checks and warrants
available for immediate use. A tax upon them is virtually a tax upon
the money which can be drawn upon their presentation.

Tms was an action by the plaintiff in error, begun in the
state Superior .Court to recover certain taxes paid under protest
upon two checks or orders for $120,000 and $1,875, respectively, signed by the Treasurer of the United States and addressed to the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the
United States, for interest accrued upon certain registered
bonds of the United States, owned by the plaintiff. These
checks were issued in compliance with Rev. Stat. § 3698,
which requires that "the Secretary of the Treasury shall cause
to be paid, out of any money in the Treasury not othervise
appropriated, any interest falling due, or accruing, on any
portion of the public debt authorized by law." The checks,

HIBERNIA SAVINGS SOCIETY v. SAN FRANCISCO. 311
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

which were payable at the United States Treasury at San
Francisco at any time within four months from their date,
were not presented immediately for payment, but were withheld by the plaintiff until the first Monday in March, 1899,
the day when the status of property, for the purpose of taxation, is determined. Plaintiff did not list these checks for
assessment; but the assessor, in making up his roll for the ensuing year, included them, and, after a fruitless effort to be
relieved from the assessment, plaintiff paid the amount of the
tax and brought this suit to recover it back. There were
claims for other taxes included in the action, upon which plaintiff was successful, but in respect to the tax upon the two
orders above mentioned judgment went for the defendant,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court. 139 California,
205.
Mr. T. C. Van Ness for plaintiff in error:
The obligation referred to is simply a check or order drawn
by the Treasurer of the United States upon the Federal Treasury, in favor of plaintiff in error, for a designated amount. It
shows the purpose for which it is issued, and the time and place
of payment.
All property in the State, not exempt under the laws of the
United States, shall be taxed in proportion to its value. Const.
of California, art. XIII, § 1. All stocks, bonds, treasury
notes, and other obligations of the United States shall be
exempt from taxation by or under state, or municipal or local
authority. Rev. Stat. § 3701.
That this check is an obligation see Webster's Dict.; Civ.
Code California, § 1427.
If the Treasury Department had not issued this order, the
obligation of the Government to meet the interest upon its
bonds would not have been changed; nor could the propertyT
right of plaintiff in this, as yet, uncollected interest be made
the subject of taxation by state authority. Bank of Kc-nz
tucky v. Commonwealth, 9 Kentucky Law Rep. 46.

OCTOBER TERA, 1905.
Argument fcr Pefendant in Error.

200 U. S.

As a general rule the tendency of the decisions of this court
upon analogous questions is to sustain the exemption of all
Federal obligations from municipal taxation. McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 314; Howard Say. Inst. v. Newark, 44
AtI. Rep. 654; Society of Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; New
York v. Connolly, 7 Wall. 16; Osborn v. Bank of U. S., 9 Wheat.
738; Bank of Commerce v. New York, 2 Black, 620; New Jersey
v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164. And as to treasury notes see
People ex rel. v. Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26, which was decided
prior to the act of Congress of 1894, subjecting such notes to
the taxing power of the States. 2 Supp. Rev. Stat. 236.
Mr. Percy V. Long and Mr. William I. Brobeck for defendant in error:
The decision of this cause reduces itself to a determining
whether the tax imposed upon the checks issued by the United
States Treasurer in payment of interest due upon United States
bonds did impede, retard, burden, or in any manner control
the operations of the Federal Government in the exercise of
its constitutional power to borrow money or otherwise employ the National credit. If this question can be answered
in the negative, the judgment must stand.
The checks have been issued, payable in presenti and drawn
against unappropriated revenues wlich were at the time of
issue and must always be sufficient to meet such drafts. Under such conditions the check constitutes payment in and of
itself. It is equivalent to cash. People v. Stockton and Visalia
R. R., 45 California, 306; Matter of Staten Island &c. R. R.
Co., 37 Hun, 422; S. C., 101 N. Y. 636; S. C., 38 Hun, 382;
Metropolitan Bank v. Sirret, 97 N. Y. 320; Wells v. Brigham,
6 Cush. (Mass.) 6; Crugcor v. Armstrong, 3 Johns. Cas. (N. Y.)
5; Nords v. Schroeder, 4 Harris and J. (Md.) 276; Wis. Cent.
R. R. Co. v. Price, 133 U. S. 496.
One who has the right to property, and is not excluded from
its enjoyment, shall not be permitted to use the legal title of
the Government to avoid his just share of taxation. Northern

HIB3ERNIA SAVINGS SOCIETY v. SAN FRANCISCO. 313
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Pacific R. R. v. Patterson, 154 U. S. 139; Mitchell v. Commis.
sioners, 91 U. S. 206; Shotwell v. Moore, 129 U. S. 590, 596.
And see Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353.
MR. JUSTICE BRoWN, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case involves the question whether the two checks or
orders upon which the tax was imposed are exempt from state
taxation under Rev. Stat. § 3701, declaring that "all stocks,
bonds, treasury notes, and other obligations of the United
States, shall be exempt from taxation by or under state or
municipal or local authority." The basis of this exemption
is the fact that a tax upon the obligations of the United States
is virtually a tax upon the credit of the Government, and upon
its power to raise money for the purpose of carrying on its
civil and military operations. The efficiency of the Government service cannot be impaired by a taxation of the agencies
which it employs for such service, and, as one of the most
valuable and best known of these agencies is the borrowing
of money, a tax which diminishes in the slightest degree the
value of the obligations issued by the Government for that
purpose impairs pro tanto their market value.
The inability of the States to tax the official agencies of the
Federal Government, whether in the form of banks chartered
under its authority, or of obligations issued by it as a means
of providing a revenue, or for the payment of its debts, was
applied in McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, to a stamp
tax upon notes of the United States Bank; in Weston v. Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, and in Bank of Commerce v. New York, 2 Black,
620, to stock issued for loans made to the Government of the
United States; and in the Bank Tax Case, 2 Wall. 200, to a
tax laid on banks on a valuation equal to the amount of their
capital stock, when their.property consisted of stocks of the
Federal Government; in The Banks v. The Mayor, 7 Wall. 16,
to certificates of indebtedness of the United States issued to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

the creditors of the Goverment for supplies furnished in carrying on the Civil War; in Bank v. Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26,
to notes of the United States intended to circulate as money;
and in Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, to land
purchased by the United States for the amount of a direct
tax laid thereon.
The principle, however, upon which this exemption is claimed
does not apply to obligations, such as checks and warrants
intended for immediate use, and designed merely to stand in
the place of money, until presented at the Treasury and the
money actually drawn thereon. In such case the tax is
virtually a tax upon the money which may be drawn immediately upon presentation of the checks. As was said by Mr.
Justice Miller in National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353,
362: "That limitation (upon the power to tax) is, that the
agencies of the Federal Government are only exempted from
state legislation, so far as that legislation may interfere with,
or impair, their efficiency in perforning the functions by which
they are designed to serve that Government."
In Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wal. 5, it was insisted
by the plaintiff in error that the property of the Union Pacific
Railroad Company was exempted from state taxation by virtue
of the incorporation of the company by the United States, as
a means for the performance of certain public duties of the
Government enjoined and authorized by the Constitution. It
was said, however, by Mr. Justice Strong, in delivering the
opinion of the court, that no constitutional implications prohibited a state tax upon the property of an agent of the Government merely because it is the property of such agent, but
"that the agencies of the Federal Government are uncoRtrollable by state legislation, so far as it may interfere with, or
impair their efficiency in performing the functions by which
they are designed to serve that Government.
"It is, therefore, manifest that the exemption of Federal
agencies fron state taxation is dependent, not upon the nature
of the agents, or upon the mode of their constitution, or upon

HIBERNIA SAVINGS SOCIETY v. SAN FRANCISCO. 315
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the fact that they are agents, but upon the effect of the tax;
that is, upon the question whether the tax does in truth deprive them of power to serve the Government as they were
intended to serve it, or does hinder the efficient exercise of
their power. A tax upon their property has no such necessary
effect. It leaves them free to discharge the duties they have
undertaken to perform. A tax upon their operations is a
direct obstruction to the exercise of Federal powers."
Had the Government, in the absence of money for the immediate payment of interest upon its bonds, issued new obligations for the payment of this interest at a future day, it
might well be claimed that these were not taxable, as the taxatrion of such notes would, to the extent of the tax, impair their
value and negotiability in the hands of the holder. This was
practically the case in The Banks v. The Mayor, 7 Wall. 16,
where certificates were issued at a time when the Government
had no money to pay its obligations, and made use of its
credit to obtain further time. But where checks are issued
payable immediately they merely stand in the place of coin,
which may be immediately drawn thereon. As observed by
the court below, the checks were for all practical purposes the
money itself. People v. Stockton &c. R. R. Co., 45 California,
306, 313; Metropolitan National Bank v. Sirret, 97 N. Y. 320,
325; Matter of Staten Island R. R. Co., 38 Hun, 381; S. C., 101
N. Y. 636. A check may be given in evidence under the
money counts. Wells v. Brigham, 6 Cush. 6; Cruger v. Armstrong, 3 Johns. Cas. 5.
While Congress has not amended Rev. Stat. § 3701, upon
which plaintiff relies in this case, it did by act approved August 13, 1894, 28 Stat. 278, declare "That circulating notes of
national banking associations and United States legal tender
notes and other notes and certificates of the United States
payable on demand and circulating or intended to circulate
as currency, . . . shall be subject to (state) taxation as
money on hand or on deposit."
Although the checks in question were not intended to eircu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

late as money, and therefore do not fall within the letter of
the statute, the reasons that apply to that class of obligations
we think apply with equal force to checks intended for immediate payment, though not intended to circulate as money.
While the checks are obligations of the United States and
within the letter of § 3701, they are not within its spirit, and
are proper subjects of taxation.
Had the plaintiff drawn the money upon them immediately,
it would have become at once a part of the general property
of the bank, and the fact that the money had been derived
from the United States and paid to the bank as interest on its
obligations would not have prevented its becoming part of
the general property of the bank, and subject to state taxation.
A/firmed.

MARTIN v. TEXAS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
TEXAS.
No. 170.

Submitted January 25, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.

While an accused person of African descent on trial in a state court is entitled under the Constitution of the United States to demand that in
organizing the grand jury, and empanelling the petit jury, there shall
be no exclusion of his race on account of race and color, such discrimination cannot be established by merely proving that no one of his race was
on either of the juries; and motions to quash, based on alleged discriminations of that nature, must be supported by evidence introduced or by
an actual offer of proof in regard thereto. Smith v. Mississippi, 162
U. S. 592, 600, followed.
An accused person cannot of right demand a mixed jury some of which
shall be of his race, nor is a jury of that kind guaranteed by the Fourteeath Amendment to any race.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

