CARFER v. CALDWELL.
200 U. S.

Syllabus.

below erred in enforcing its prior decree because there was adequate remedy at law, by interposing a defense in the state
courts to the actions brought by the Attorney General. That
question was foreclosed by the decree in the Pegues case. So
also does the reasoning dispose of the assertion that because a
part of the tax for the year 1898 may have been due, therefore
tender should have been made before invoking the power of
the court to protect its jurisdiction and enforce the prior decree. The amendment of the decree made by the court eliminated from the controversy all question concerning the portion
of the tax not covered by the decree in the Pegues case. Having acquired by, that decree a right which the petitioner was
entitled to enforce, whatever might have been the rule of tender
as applied to other cases, that rule could not rightly be invoked
to deprive the court below as a court of equity of the power
to protect the petitioner in the enjoyment of rights previously
secured under a decree of the court.

Affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE BROWN dissents.

CARFER, SHERIFF, v. CALDWELL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 360. Submitted January 8, 190.-Decided January22, 1906.
As the jurisdiction of courts of the United States to issue writs of habeas
corpus is limited to cases of persons alleged to be restrained of their liberty in violation of the Constitution or of some law or treaty of the United
States, and cases arising under the law of nations, a Circuit Court cannot issue the writ to release a citizen from imprisonment by another
citizen of the State merely because the imprisonment is illegal.
The objection of a person committed for contempt, for refusing to appear before a legislative committee, that the subject which it had been appointed
to investigate was not within the jurisdiction of the legislature, under
a provision in the state constitution, that neither the legislative, executive
nor judicial departments should exercise powers belonging to either of the
others, does not present any question under the due process clause of the
Fourteeath Amendment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellee.

200 U. S.

THF, facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, Jr., and Mr. William E. Chilton, for
appellant:
Federal courts have no authority to discharge a person held
for contempt by a committee of the legislature of a State, acting in pursuance of a law of the State and a resolution passed
by a branch of the legislature, on the ground that such law
and resolution are repugnant to the constitution of the State.
In re Burrus, 136 U. S. 586, 591; Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S.
272; Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 138.
The committee was acting under a resolution duly passed
by the House of Delegates, and in pursuance of a law of the
State, giving power to committees of either house, authorized to
sit during recess, to enforce obedience to summonses issued by
them; and if they did not have the power which they assumed
to exercise, it was because the resolution or law or both were repugnant to the constitution of the State, and not because they
were in conflict with the Constitution or any law or treaty
of the United States. Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S. 71, 83;
Reetz v. Michigan, 188 U. S. 505; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S. 168.
The Circuit Court held that the chairman of the committee
in issuing an order for Caldwell's arrest was a mere usurper,
without any authority in law, but the court reached that conclusion only upon an examination of the constitution of West
Virginia. There is nothing in the Constitution of the United
States on the subject.
As to the power of a legislative committee to summon
witnesses see McDonald v. Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463, 487.
Mr. Charles T. Caldwell in propria persona, with whom Mr.
J. G. McClure and Mr. Reese Blizzard were on the brief for
appellee:
The state constitution contains a clause identical with the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

CARFER v.CALD VELL.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Due process of law undoubtedly means in the due course
of legal proceeding according to those rules and forms which
have been established for the protection of private rights.
Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., 433; Pearson v. Yendall, 95
U. S. 436; Portlanv. Banzer, 65 Maine, 120; State v. Sponangle,
45 W. Va. 424.
In cases where the right of appeal seems inadequate by
reason of its delay, the court may hold the person entitled
to the writ as a means of speedy determination of the question.
Ex parte Keiffer, 40 Fed. Rep. 399.
In general the writ may be issued by Federal courts in
every case where a party is restrained of his liberty without
"due process of law" in the territorial jurisdiction of such
court. Ex parte Farley, 40 Fed. Rep. 66; Cunningham v.
Nagle, 135 U. S. 1, and authorities cited; New York v. Eno,
155 U. S. 88; In re Huse, 79 Fed. Rep. 305.
The legislature had no power to appoint the committee under the constitution of the State, and the legislature having
adjourned sine die the committee of one of its branches could
not exist after the adjournment.
Legislative powers are not absolute and despotic, and the
Fourteenth Amendment prescribing due process of law is not
too vague and indefinite to operate as a practical restraint.
Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 536.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from a final order of the Circuit Court in
htabeas corpus, discharging Charles T. Caldwell, a citizen of
West Virginia, from custody, taken on the ground that the
Circuit Court was without jurisdiction as a court of the United
States to issue the writ or discharge the petitioner, the question of jurisdiction being certified. The case was heard on
the petition, the return, and the exhibits attached. It appeared therefrom, in brief, that at a regular biennial session

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

of the legislature of West Virginia, the House of Delegates
passed a resolution instructing the Speaker of the House to
appoint a committee of three members "to investigate fully
and thoroughly" certain charges and matters set forth therein.
The committee was instructed by the resolution to meet as soon
as practicable and select one of its members chairman; was
given leave to sit after the adjournment of the session; and was
empowered "to compel the attendance of witnesses and to
send for persons and papers, to appoint a sergeant at arms,
necessary stenographers and clerks, and to employ such counsel as may be necessary to conduct said investigation."
The committee organized and summoned Charles T. Caldwell to appear before it "to testify and the truth to speak
of and concerning the matters and things in said resolution
to be inquired of." He refused to appear and was taken into
custody by W. H. Carfer, sheriff of Wood County, West Virginia, in pursuance of an order of attachment issued by the
committee to bring him before it to answer for his contempt
for failing to attend and testify. This writ was issued and
Caldwell was discharged. 138 Fed. Rep. 487.
The jurisdiction of courts of the United States to issue wits
of habeas corpus is limited to cases of persons alleged to be
restrained of their liberty in violation of the Constitution or
of some law or treaty of the United States, and cases arising
under the law of nations. In re Brrus, 136 U. S. 586, 591;
Andrews v. Swartz, 156 U. S. 272, 275; Storti v. Massachusetts,
183 U. S. 138, 142.
And it did not appear in this case that petitioner was restrained in violation of the Constitution or any law or treaty
of the United States.
The Circuit Court held that the House of Delegates had no
power under the constitution of West Virginia to appoint a
committee for the purpose of investigating the matter set
forth in the resolution and to clothe it with power to sit and
compel the attendance of witnesses in vacation, but took
jurisdiction, nevertheless, on the ground that the condition was

CARFER v. CALDWELL.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

so "extraordinary" as to "warrant the intervention of the
first court, state or Federal, applied to." This view ignored
the settled law that a Circuit Court of the United States has no
jurisdiction to issue the writ to release a citizen from imprisonment by another citizen of the same State merely because the
imprisonment is wrongful. The committee was acting under
a resolution of the House of Delegates, and in pursuance of a
law of the State, giving power to committees of either house,
authorized to sit during recess, to enforce obedience to summonses issued by them; and if they did not have the power
they assumed to exercise, it was because the resolution or
law, or both, was, or were, repugnant to the state constitution,
and the courts of the State are the appropriate tribunals for
the vindication of the state constitution and laws.
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the subject which
the committee was appointed to investigate was not within
the jurisdiction of the legislature, as defined by article 5 of
the constitution of West Virginia, declaring that "the legislative, executive, and judicial departments shall be separate
and distinct, so that neither shall exercise the powers properly
belonging to either of the others." But that objection does
not "present any question under the due process of law clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment." Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U. S.
71, 83; Reetz v. Michigan, iSS U. S. 505.
Viewed in any aspect, we perceive no ground on which Caldwell's case can be considered as arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States.
Final order reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
quash the writ and dismiss the petition.

