OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

LOONEY v. METROPOLITAN RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 173.

Argued December 14, 15, 1905.-Decided February 19, 1906.

In an action for damages for personal injuries while the defendant has the
burden of proof of contributory negligence, the plaintiff must establish
the grounds of defendant's liability; and to hold a master responsible a
servant must show by substantive proof that the appliances furnished
were defective, and knowledge of the defect or some omission in regard
thereto. Negligence of defendant will not be inferred from the mere
fact that the injury occurred, or from the presumption of care on the
part of the plaintiff. There is equally a presumption that the defendant performed his duty.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Maurice D. Rosenberg and Mr. Alexander Wolf, with
whom Mr. Simon Lyon was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. J. Darlingtonfor defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.
Action brought by plaintiff as administratrix of the estate
of James F. Looney, deceased, against the defendants, for
damages for the death of her intestate, alleged to have been
caused by defendants. Judgment went against plaintiff in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, which was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals.
After the plaintiff had rested her case the court directed the
jury to return a verdict for the defendants. The correctness
of this ruling is the question in the case.
The declaration consists of four counts. The first three
allege the employment of the deceased by each of defendant

LOONEY v. METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO.
200 U. S.

481

Opinion of the Court.

companies respectively. In the fourth the allegation is that
he was rightfully and lawfully in the discharge of his duties.
Looney was employed as a "pitman" by the Washington
and Great Falls Railroad Company (now the Washington and
Electric Company), and was on the day of his death, July 28,
1901, in one of the "plow pits" located on the lines of the
company, near its terminus, at Thirty-sixth street and Prospect avenue northwest.
The Metropolitan Company's line connects at this point with
that of the Great Falls line. The latter company uses the
overhead system. By this system the power is conveyed to
the car by means of a "trolley pole" attached to the top of the
car and made to touch the trolley wire when used to propel
the car. The Metropolitan Company uses the underground
system by means of a "plow," so called, projecting through a
slot in the tracks to an underground current. The two companies have a trackage arrangement, whereby the cars of the
Metropolitan Company run over the line of the other company.
The cars of the Metropolitan Company, therefore, are equipped
not only with a "plow" and mechanism for the underground
system, but with a trolley-pole and mechanism for an overhead system. To attach these mechanisms to their respective
systems it is necessary to run a car over an excavation on the
line of the Great Falls Company known as the "pit." The
"pitman" is thus enabled to remove the "plow" from a car
to be transferred from the Metropolitan line to the Great Falls
line, and adjust or attach the wires or "leads" necessary for
the operation of the car over the Great Falls line. While doing
this Looney was killed, the plaintiff contends, through the
negligence of the conductor of the car in permitting the trolley
pole to come in contact with the trolley wire, whereby a current
of electricity was transmitted to the motive machinery. And
this is the ground of negligence charged in the declaration. In
every count it is alleged "before said intestate entered said
plow pit it became the duty of the defendants, and each of
them, to keep, or cause to be kept, the electric current so cut
VOL. cC-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

off from said pit as not to injure the said intestate; and the
plaintiff says that said intestate having entered said pit in
obedience to said direction to him as aforesaid, said defendants
negligently failed to keep, or cause to be kept, cut off, as aforesaid, said electric current from said pit while said intestate
was therein for the purpose aforesaid, whereby and by reason
of said negligence the said intestate was so severely shocked
and injured by said electric current that he almost immediately
died."
At the trial there was evidence given by the plaintiff of the
arrangement between the defendant companies as to the exchange of cars and to the relation of their respective employ~s.
On this evidence the parties base opposing contentions, the
defendants contending that the conductor and Looney were
fellow servants, the plaintiff contending that they were not.
Both of the lower courts sustained the contention of the defendants. The Court of Appeals, besides intimated a belief
that the testimony on behalf of plaintiff rather tended to show
accident than negligence. If this be so, or if the evidence fails
to establish whether the death was caused by accident or negligence the judgment should be affirmed, and it Ull be unnecessary to decide whether Looney and the conductor were
fellow servants. We will assume for the purposes of the case
that they were not fellow servants.
The accident was seen by two persons, Margaret Mawson
and Helen Gertrude Coon. The former testified that she was
sitting in her room on the second floor of her house, which is
on Prospect avenue, seventy-five feet or more from the "pit."
She saw the car turn the curve from Thirtysixth street into
Prospect avenue, and "that the trolley pole was up and the
trolley wheel against the overhead wire, all the time after the
car got into Prospect avenue until it stopped over the pit;
that while the car was coming from Thirty-sixth street down
to the pit she saw Looney, the deceased, enter the pit through
the south trapdoor. That after the car stopped over the pit
she saw him go up under the car and take the plow off. That

LOONEY v. METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO.
200 U. S.

4S3

Opinion of the Court.

after he took the plow off she saw him go up under the car
again and put the wires up in the car to connect with the overhead trolley, and that while he was in that position she heard
him holler and drop down, and the motorman turned and
said 'For God's sake, fix that trolley!' and the conductor then
pulled the trolley down, but did not before that time.
That the accident did not happen until after the car stopped
and the deceased had removed the plow and had gone up under
the car again and was putting up the wires. That she saw
the movements of the deceased under the car through the trapdoor. That she could see his hands taking off the plow;
could see nothing but his hands then; that after he took off
the plow and went up under the car, she could see a part of
his body above the surface of the street. That the pit was
deep enough for a man to stand up in; that she heard no bell
ring, nor signal of any sort; her hearing was good enough to
hear a bell if one had been rung. That he had to use his hands
to remove the plow and also put the overhead current on,
and she saw him twist his hands when he got the shock."
Helen Gertrude Coon testified that she was a daughter of
the preceding witness and lived with her; that she saw the
accident from the front porch of the house, which was about
on the level with the sidewalk of Prospect avenue. She saw
the car run around the curve from Thirty-sxth street, come
down the avenue and stop over the pit. She was not certain
whether the pole was touching the wire before the car stopped
over the pit, but the pole was touching the wire or came in
contact with it while deceased was taking off the plow. "That
her attention was directed to the fact of the trolley being in
contact with the wire from the fact that the deceased gave a
groan, and the motorman said 'For God's sake, pull that
trolley down!' That some one said 'Pull the car off the pit!'
That she saw deceased take the plow off and then go up under
the car to throw the overhead current on. That after he took
the plow off and was putting the overhead current on, she
heard him groan. That she heard no bells or signals given.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

That he had to use his hands to remove the plow and also put
the overhead current on, and she saw him twist his hands when
he got the shock. That she saw all this while looking under
the car from where she was sitting on the porch. That they
took the body up out of the pit over which the car had been
standing."
A passenger on the car testified that he heard one bell ring,
and immediately the conductor took the rope that holds the
trolley rod in his hands, but he did not notice him do anything
else. In about a minute and a half there "was a groan down
in the hole and he jumped down and saw the man lying on
his face." He heard some one say "For God's sake, hold the
rod down; pull the pole down!"
Another witness testified that he lived on Prospect avenue,
and was in front of his house lighting the fire in his automobile.
He did not notice the car before it stopped. While it was
standing over the pit he heard an exclamation and a groan,
and some one said "Pull that trolley down!" After the exclamation he looked up and saw the trolley against the wire.
He was about seventy-five feet from the car.
Another witness testified as to the manner of adjusting the
plow and "leads," and the way a shock could be received by
the pitman. It was to the effect that the wires used to connect
the motive power with the overhead trolley are called "leads."
Where the pitman takes hold of them to adjust them they
are insulated by a covering of india rubber, but at the ends
where they connect with other wires they are uninsulated and
have to be so in order to take the current. If the pitman takes
hold of them at the right place and there is no leak, he would
not be shocked, even though they were connected with the
trolley. "Wear and tear," a witness said who was experienced in removing and adjusting plows and wires, "will cause
a leak in the insulation. A leak is when the electricity comes
through a hole in the insulation, caused by the wear and tear
or from the insulation being old or imperfect."
The same witness also testified "that the company furnishes

LOONEY v. METROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO.
200 U. S.

485

Opinion of the Court.

gloves in the pit with which to handle live plows and wires.
But it is not customary or required to use the gloves except
upon rainy days. On bright days, the car, when over the pit,
is supposed to be 'dead,' and you don't take off the plows with
gloves; you can't do half your work with them. That danger
from electricity is increased from perspiration, rain or other
moisture. That the day of the accident was a bright, sunshiny day. The accident occurred between two and four
o'clock P. i."
If the trolley was on before the plow was disconnected and
removed, the plow would be charged with the full voltage on
the line.
A witness who had experience with the construction of
electric railway systems, and was familiar with the action of
electricity generally, and had experience in superintending the
work of disconnecting a plow from an electric car and adjusting the wires to move an overhead system, testified that in
his opinion as an expert that it would be the duty of a conductor to keep the trolley off the wire until he received some
signal from the man beneath the car.
(1) It will be observed that the deceased did not meet his
death while removing the plow. Of this the testimony leaves
no doubt. (2) He received the electric shock while adjusting
the leads. It follows from the first proposition that the trolley
pole was not in contact with the trolley wire when the plow
was removed. The argument of plaintiff assumes the contrary, and, indeed, is based entirely on the assumption that
the deceased received his death stroke when removing the plow.
Two questions arise on the second proposition. The leads
are insulated except at the ends that go into the connection;
they are necessarily uninsulated there in order to take the
current. But it was not necessary for the deceased to touch
the uninsulated parts in making the connection, and, unless
touched, no shock would have been received, even though they
had been connected with the current by reason of the trolley
being in contact with the wire, unless there was a leak in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

insulation arising from defective construction or wear and tear
in use. Granting, therefore, that the conductor was negligent, one of two things was necessary to cause the accident:
a leak in the insulation, or the act of the deceased in touching
the uninsulated ends of the leads. Either one or the other was
a necessary condition. If the first existed, the defendants may
be charged with liability. If the second, they are exonerated.
The burden of proof becomes a factor. The plaintiff in the
first instance is not required to prove that the deceased was
free from contributory negligence; in other words, the burden of
proof of contributory negligence is on the defendant. But on
the other hand, plaintiff must establish grounds of liability
against the defendant. To hold a master responsible, a servant
must show that the appliances and instrumentalities furnished
were defective. A defect cannot be inferred from the mere
fact of an injury. There must be some substantive proof of
the negligence. Knowledge of the defect or some omission
of duty in regard to it must be shown.
In Texas & Pacific Railway Company v. Barrett, 166 U. S.
617, the plaintiff (defendant in error in this court) was a foreman in charge of a switch engine, and was injured by the
explosion of a boiler of another engine. There was evidence
tending to prove that the boiler was and had been in a weak
and unsafe state by reason of the condition of the stay bolts,
and that if a well-known test had been applied the condition
of the bolts would have been discovered. The Circuit Court
instructed the jury that the mere fact of the injury received
from the explosion would not entitle plaintiff to recover; that,
besides the fact of explosion, he must show that the explosion
resulted from the failure of the railroad company to exercise
ordinary care either in selecting the engine or in keeping it in
reasonable safe repair. The court also instructed the jury
that the burden of proof was on the plaintiff throughout the
case to show that the boilers and engines that exploded v.-cre
improper appliances to be used on its railroad by the defendant;
that by reason of the particular defects pointed out and in-

LOONEY v. AIETROPOLITAN RAILROAD CO.
200 U. S.

487

Opinion of the Court.

sisted on by the plaintiff the boiler exploded and injured him,
and the plaintiff was ignorant of the defects, and did not by
his negligence contribute to his injury. Passing on these instructions, this court said, that they laid down the applicable
rule with sufficient accuracy and in substantial conformity
with the views of this court expressed in prior cases which
were cited.
Plaintiff in the case at bar introduced no evidence whatever
of a defect in the leads or that leaks were likely to occur, or
the amount or degree of inspection necessary to discover them,
or that there was an omission of inspection. The case was
probably brought and tried on a different theory. It was
argued in this court on a different theory. It was argued on
the assumption that the deceased was killed when removing
the plow. The assumption is directly in the teeth of the testimony. "The accident did not happen until after the car
stopped and the deceased had removed the plow and had gone
up under the car again and was putting up the wires." (Testimony of Margaret Mawson.) And to like effect is the testimony of Miss Coon. "She saw deceased take the plow off
and then go up under the car to throw the overhead current
on. That after he took the plow off and was putting the overhead current on, she heard him groan." And she saw him
"twist his hands when he got the shock."
The declaration does not charge a defect in the leads. It
charges the negligence to have been in the failure "to keep,
or cause to be kept, cut off" the electric current while the deceased was in the pit, "whereby and by reason of said negligence the said intestate was so severely shocked and injured
by said electric current that he almost immediately died."
In other words, the cause of death was the negligent act of
permitting the trolley pole to come in contact with the trolley
wire.
But, granting plaintiff is not limited by her declaration,
nevertheless she has not satisfied the requirements of law in
her proof. A plaintiff in the first instance must show negli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

gence on the part of the defendant. Having done this, he need
not go farther in those jurisdictions where the burden of proof
is on the defendant to show contributory negligence. In other
words, if there is no evidence which speaks one way or the
other with reference to contributory negligence of the person
killed, then it is presumed that.there was no such negligence.
Thompson on the Law of Negligence, see. 401; Baltimore &
Potomac R. R. Company v. Landrigan,191 U. S. 461; Texas &
Pacific Railway Company v. Gentry, 163 U. S. 353. But the
negligence of a defendant cannot be inferred from a presumption of care on the part of the person killed. A presumption
in the performance of duty attends the defendant as well as
the person killed. It must be overcome by direct evidence.
One presumption cannot be built upon another. Douglas v.
Mitchell, 35 Pa. St. 440; Philadelphia &c. Railway Company
v. Henrice, 92 Pa. St. 431; Yarnell v. Kansas City &c. Railroad
Company, 113 Missouri, 570.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK AND CUBA MAIL
STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 116. Argued January 22, 23, 1906.-Decided February 19, 1906.
Payment of an illegal demand with full knowledge of the facts rendering
it illegal, without an immediate and urgent necessity therefor, or unless
to release or prevent immediate seizure of person or property, is a voluntary payment and not one under duress.
Affixing stamps required by the war revenue act of 1898 to the manifest
of a vessel in order to obtain the clearance required by ยง 4197, Rev. Stat.,
without presenting any claim or protest to the collector of internal revenue
from whom the stamps are purchased or to the collector of the port from

