HALLENBORG v. COBRE COPPER CO.
200 U. S.

HALLENBORG

Statement of the Case.

v. COBRE GRANDE COPPER
COMPANY.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME

COURT

OF THE

TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.
No. 87. Argued November 29, December 1, 1905.-Decided January 8, 1906.

This was a minority stockholder's suit to set aside a contract made for the
sale of a large block of stock of the corporation under an arrangement
made by the respective owners thereof with the party making the sale
who was also president of the corporation. The contract was ratified
by a majority of the stockholders and by the directors but against complainant's protests. It contained provisions for payments to the president for services. Complainant charged fraud, alleged a conspiracy between the president and the purchaser and asked for a receiver and an
accounting. Other suits were brought in other courts in which similar
charges were made. Held, that:
On the record of this case the charges of fraud were not sustained and the
complaint was not established.
Where the allegations in the suit in which fraud is alleged are held to be
untrue, records of other suits in which like charges were made and sustained on ex parte statements cannot be regarded as evidence of the
fraud.

THis is a minority stockholder's suit. It was brought originally by Axel W. Hallenborg as owner of 8,617 shares of the
Cobre Grande Copper Company, an Arizona corporation, and
also as creditor of that corporation, for advances to the amount
of $50,005. The appellant Addicks owned 5,000 shares and
was allowed to intervene at the trial, and adopted Hallenborg's
complaint.
In November, 1898, defendant (appellee) Greene owned certain mining properties in Sonora, Mexico, and had an option
on other properties. lie gave an option on these properties
to defendant Mitchell. It was provided in the option that
$12,500 should be paid in cash and $237,500, as follows: $37,500
on or before November 26, 1899; $100,000 on or before
November 26, 1900; $100,000 on or before November 26, 1901.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

In April, 1899, Greene, Mitchell and other parties, under the
laws of Arizona, organized the Cobre Company. One hundred
and ninety-nine thousand nine hundred and ninety-five shares
of the stock were turned over to Mitchell in consideration of
his option from Greene, which option was assigned to the Cobre
Company subject to Greene's rights. The Cobre Company
went into possession and was in possession in September, 1899.
In October of that year controversies arose between Greene and
the company over the option and the right to possession of the
properties, and Greene entered into possession of them. Thereupon the company instituted suits in the courts of Mexico to
gain possession of the properties, and also instituted a suit in
the District Court of Maricopa County, Arizona, to restrain the
delivery to Greene of the deeds which were put in escrow under
the contract with Mitchell, which had been assigned to the
Cobre Company. In the latter suit an injunction was granted
restraining Greene from demanding or receiving the deeds. A
suit was also brought in New York and one in Texas to recover
the product of the mines. In the suit in Arizona the Cobre
Company alleged, among other things, in substance, all the
facts set forth in paragraph three of the original complaint in
the present suit, and prayed that Greene be required to account for the proceeds of the products of the mines and other
property alleged to have been appropriated by him. Issue was
joined by the defendants therein, the case tried and a judgment
entered dismissing the complaint. 1he judgment was not appealed from. At the time of the judgment the plaintiffs were
stockholders of the Cobre Company.
While the litigation was pending the stockholders of the
Cobre Company, or a majority of them, comprising stockholders to the number of 115,049 shares, entered into a pooling
arrangement, whereby all of their stock was delivered to defendant Gage, with power to vote the same at all meetings of
the stockholders. Subsequently Gage was granted the right to
dispose of and sell the stock at his discretion. Several attempts
were made by Gage to sell the stock at 82.50 a share, which

HALLENBORG v. COBRE COPPER CO.
200 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

failed on account of the other contracting parties not complying with their contracts. The plaintiff Hallenborg and John
H. Costello opened negotiations with Gage for the stock at
S2.50 a share. This also failed on account of objection by
Costello to the contract which was drawn, although negotiations were kept up until December, 1900. Then Gage opened
negotiations with Greene, who offered to buy the stock, upon
better terms than anybody else had offered. Gage consulted
the directors and they urged him to enter into a contract with
Greene. The stock represented by Gage represented the entire
stock of the company, including Hallenborg's 8,000 shares, except that owned by Greene and his associates and about 6,500
shares owned by other parties. Gage entered into a contract
with Greene, December 12, 1900, and it was ratified in its entirety by the directors and by a majority vote of the stockholders. Hallenborg was present by attorney at the meeting
and protested against the ratification. The contract was complied with by Greene and he paid the full purchase price for the
shares, and they were delivered to him and the Greene Copper
Company. All of the stockholders accepted the money so paid
except Hallenborg, who returned the money sent to him and
declined to be bound by the contract.
The court finds that the contract was made with Greene in
good faith, with full knowledge and consent of the directors
and upon the advice of counsel of the Cobre Company, that the
company could not successfully maintain the suit brought in
Arizona, and with the full belief on the part of Gage that the
contract was for the best interest of the company and its stockholders. And the court further finds that no agreement was
made between Gage or other persons, whereby the directors,
Adanson, Wood, O'Keefe, or any of them, were to derive benefit or did derive any benefit whatsoever, except such as they
derived from the sale of their stock.
The contract of December 12, between Gage and Greene,
provided for the payment of the stock in certain instalments.
Greene was to pay to Gage $25,000 in cash in addition to t!ho
VOL. CO-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

$2.50 per share, and also to pay to Gage $30,000, and in addition 3,000 shares of the capital stock of the Greene Consolidated
Copper Company, or, in lieu thereof, $30,000 in cash. Gage
was given the privilege of taking, instead of $2.50 per share
for shares of stock in the Cobre Company, stock in the Greene
Consolidated Copper Company-four of the former for one of
the latter-the option to be exercised before payment of the
second instalment on the stock of the Cobre Company. Five
thousand shares of the Greene Consolidated Copper Company
were provided to be paid to Gage for his own use and benefit,
and 5,000 shares for the use and benefit of L. H. Chalmers,
Baker & Bennett, and Herndon & Norris, attorneys at law in
Arizona.
It was also agreed that a certain promissory note given by
J. H. Costello to the Cobre Company, amounting to $23,000,
was to be surrendered to Costello. 'This note was conditioned
upon the Cobre Company obtaining possession of its property
in Mexico, and was not to be paid until ninety days after such
recovery. It was also agreed that the suits brought by the
Cobre Company in New York, Texas, and Arizona should be
dismissed. The other provisions of the contract are but incident to those before given and may be omitted. The suits in
New York are still pending. All the other suits were dismissed
or otherwise disposed of by final judgment prior to this suit.
The $25,000 mentioned in the contract of December 12 was
for the purpose of taking up and discharging certain notes due
by the Cobre Company. It was so paid. The 830,000 mentioned was to be and it was turned into the treasury of the
company to pay its debts. The 3,000 shares in the Greene
Consolidated Company, or the alternative $30,000, was also
for the purpose of paying the debts of the Cobre Company
outside of the $25,000 before mentioned. It was paid into the
treasury. The 5,000 shares of stock in the Greene Consolidated Company was intended by all parties as compensation
to Gage as president of the Cobre Company, and for the time,
labor and trouble given to the company's business, and for

HALLENBORG v. COBRE COPPER CO.
200 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

money advanced for it and expenses paid in attending to its
affairs. Instead of shares, as provided, a cash payment of
$50,000 was made to him. The shares paid to Chalmers and
Baker & Bennett and Herndon & Norris were intended to be
paid as compensation as attorneys for the company for their
services in various litigations. Instead of the shares a cash
payment of $50,000 was made, and it is found that their services were reasonably worth that sum. The note against Costello was surrendered to him.
The court also finds that the only property in possession of
the Cobre Company within the jurisdiction of the court is the
money paid into the treasury of the company in pursuance of
the contract of December 12. And, finally, the court finds
"that the temporary restraining order granted in this action,
enjoining the defendants from carrying out the terms and provisions of the contract of December 12, 1900, and dismissing
any and all of the actions then pending in behalf of the Cobre
Grande and enjoining defendant Phcenix National Bank from
delivering up any of the papers and documents held by it in
escrow, evidencing the title held by the Cobre Grande Copper
Company in and to the mining property described in the complaint, was modified, and the part of it enjoining the Phoenix
National Bank was dissolved upon the ground that the District Court in and for Maricopa County had rendered its decision in the suit of the Cobre Grande Copper Company against
Greene and others adversely to said Cobre Grande Copper Company, and that as a part of the judgment of said court the
Phcenix National Bank was commanded to deliver up said
papers and documents to said defendant Greene, and that as
this case now stands there is nothing before the court except
an application for the appointment of a receiver.
Mr. Albert B. Cruikshank for appellant.
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, with whom Mr. Eugene S. Ives, Mr.
Ben Goodrich, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr. Norton Chase
were on the brief, for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

Mn. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.

Both of the lower courts held that the suit had become one
for the appointment of a receiver. The Supreme Court said:
"The purpose for which a receiver is asked is twofold so far
as the record is concerned: First, that he may take charge of
the property of the company; second, that he may prosecute
its litigation." After some comment the court further observed that the District Court was well within the exercise of
a sound discretion in refusing to appoint a receiver, and "that
there was not any other relief which the court could properly
grant the plaintiffs in the action." We do not find it necessary
to decide whether, if plaintiffs' complaint were true, they would
not be entitled to greater relief than the appointment of a
receiver. We rest our judgment on the merits. In other
words, we think the complaint has not been established.
The complaint charges a conspiracy between Greene and
Mitchell, being at the time directors of the Cobre Company,
to deprive the company of its mines and property and acquire
it for themselves, and that in pursuance of the conspiracy they
took possession of the company's property. No evidence was
offered in the present suit to sustain the charge. Records of
suits in which like charges were made cannot be regarded as
such. The complaint also charges the contract of December 12,
1900, to be a "fraudulent and corrupt contract and conspiracy
of Greene with Gage and other directors of the Cobre Company,
to stop the litigation against defendants and to secure to them
the undisputed possession of the mines" from which the Cobre
Company had been .evicted. Both of the lower courts found
against the charge. They found that Gage entered into the
contract with the knowledge of the directors of the Cobre Company, and in good faith, upon the advice of counsel of the
futility of further pursuing the litigation against Greene and
in the belief that "the contract was to the best interest of said
company and its stockholders." It may be admitted that

HALLENBORG v. COBRE COPPER CO.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Greene's purpose was to stop the litigation against him and
quiet his possession of the property, but we cannot assume
from this that he was guilty of fraud in making the contract
of December 12, or that it was part of a conspiracy with the
directors of the Cobre Company to deprive the company of its
property. Therefore any fraud in fact is out of the case.
Plaintiffs, however, contend that the contract is fraudulent
on its face, and that it was decided so to be by the Appellate
Divsion of the Supreme Court of New York in Hallenborg v.
Greene, 66 App. Div. N. Y. 590. The pleadings are not set
out in the report of the case. We may assume, however,
that the complaint was in most part as that in the case at
bar.
The case went to the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court on an appeal from an order granting a preliminary injunction and appointing a receiver. It was heard on the complaint and affidavits of the plaintiff. The affidavits of the
defendants were by stipulation omitted from the record. Upon
the showing thus made the court said:
"According to the complaint and affidavits the Cobre Company was not only a solvent corporation, but its assets were
exceedingly valuable; and through conspiracy, fraud and bribery the defendants Greene and Mitchell have obtained the
management and control thereof to further their own schemes,
in hostility to the interests of the other stockholders, and have
actually obtained a contract from the Cobre Company to transfer to these rival companies controlled and managed by Greene
and Mitchell all its proiperty and property rights, without even
a nominal consideration. This fraudulent contract was being
consunaated with dispatch at the time of the commencement
of this action and the granting of the injunction herein. These
allegations must be taken as true for the purposes of this appeal, and it is evident that the inevitable consequence will be,
not only that the stock of the Cobre Company, of which the
plaintiff is a large holder-owning one twenty-fifth of the entire
capital stock-will be rendered worthless, but that there will

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

be no assets with which to pay the claims of creditors, of
whom, also, the plaintiff is one for a substantial amount.
"It needs no refinement of the decisions to show that the
cause thus presented is one for equitable cognizance."
The allegations of the plaintiff were taken to be true, and
being so taken the comments of the court may claim justification. In the case at bar the allegations of the complaint, as
far as they are passed on, are found to be untrue. The opinion
of the Appellate Division, therefore, is of no value to plaintiffs'
contention.
We are remitted, therefore, to the contract of December 12.
What fraudulent element is there in that? It disposed of the
shares of the stockholders and it secured the payment of money
to the corporation; it settled controversies which, as far as
appears, the company had no means of prosecuting, and which,
wherever they were tried, had been decided against the company, and where not decided, in the opinion of the company's
attorney, would also be decided against the company. We
may assume that the stockholders knew or could estimate the
value of the properties. They deposited their stock with Gage
to sell, became, indeed, impatient at his delay. We may assume
the price of the stock reflected the value of the propertiesIlallenborg bought his shares at $2.50. He had an option upon
all that were in Gage's hands at that price. He let the option
lapse, although negotiation was kept up with him from October to December. Gage then turned to Greene, who, it is
found, offered to purchase the stock on better terms than anybody else ever offered. And there was no concealment. Gage
was urged by the directors of the company and a large majority
of the stockholders to make the contract. It was subsequently
formally ratified by the directors and by a majority vote of
the stockholders at a stockholders' meeting.
But there were three other elements from which plaintiffs
deduce fraud. Gage was given $50,000, as compensation as
president of the Cobre Company and other services and expenses paid by him; the attorneys of the company were paid

HALLENBO1tG v. COBRE COPPER CO.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

$50,000, for legal services, and there was surrendered to Costello the note which he owed the company. There was no secrecy about these items, and it is manifest from the findings
and the evidence that they constituted no inducement to the
contract. Whether Gage can be compelled to pay to the
Cobre Company the money received by him we need not decide. Its receipt by him did not make the whole contract
fraudulent. It did not take from the stockholders the power
to sell their stock, nor from the directors of the company the
power to control the litigation in which the company was involved, to abandon that litigation or to compromise it. In
the exercise of their power they could have done those things
directly. It was a matter of form and procedure that it
was done in the manner provided by the contract of December 12.
It is deceptive to call or regard the action of the directors as
a transfer of the property of the corporation without consideration or for an inadequate consideration. The company had
only a right to purchase the property, the conditions of which
it had not fulfilled. It claimed legal excuse and brought suits
against Greene, but that it had legal excuse was disputed, and
seems to have been doubted by all who were interested in the
property but the plaintiffs. A jury .in Texas had decided
against the excuse; and the court in Arizona has also done so.
That the latter was subsequent to the contract of December 12
does not militate against it as proof of good faith of the settlement.
This view of the merits of the case renders it unnecessary to
pass upon the contention of the defendants that a court of
equity has no inherent power, in the absence of statutory authority, to appoint a receiver upon the application of a private
person under the circumstances presented by the complaint.
There are assignments of error upon the rulings of the trial
court on the admissions of testimony, oral and documentary,
which we do not think call for discussion. It is enough to say
that they are not well taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

200 U ".

There is also an assignment of error upon the refusal of the
Supreme Court to make certain findings of fact. We think the
findings made substantially cover those proposed, certainly to
the extent necessary to the case as we have considered it.
Judgment affirmed.

GRAHAM, COUNTY AUDITOR FOR GREENWOOD
COUNTY, v. FOLSOM.
ERROR TO THE CIRC'UIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATEZ FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 108. Argued December S. 1905.-Decided January 8, 1906.
The power of the State to alter or destroy its municipal corporations is not,
so far as the impairment of the obligation clause of the Federal Constitution is concerned, greater than the power to repeal its legislation; and
the alteration or destruction of subordinate governmental divisions is
not the proper exercise of legislative power when it impairs the obligations of contracts previously entered into.
Courts cannot permit themselves to be deceived; and while they will not
inquire too closely into the motives of the State they will not ignore the
effect of its action, and wKl not permit the obligation of a contract to be
impaired by the abolition or change of the boundaries of a municipality. Where a tax has been provided for and there are officers to collect it the court will direct those officers to lay the tax and collect it from
the property within the boundaries of the territory that constituted the
municipality.
A suit to compel county officers to levy and collect a tax on property
within the county to pay bonds of a municipality is not, under the circumstances of this case, a suit against the State, either because those
officers are also state officers, or because the bonds were issued under
legislative authority.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. Barron Grier and Mr. Joseph A. McCullough, with
whom Mr. J. B. Parks was on the blief, for plaintiffs in error.

