CAMPBELL v. CALIFORNIA.
200 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

CAMPBELL v. CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMWE COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 70. Argued November 27, 23, 105W.-Deeided January 2, 1900.
The California inheritance tax law of 1893, as amended in 1899, which
imposed a tax on inheritances of and bequests to brothers and sisters,
and not on those of daughters-in-law or sons-in-law, was assailed as repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, and having been sustained by
the highest court of the State, a writ of error from this court was prosecuted. After the record was filed a new inheritance tax law was enacted
in 1905, which amended and reenacted prior laws on the subject and also
repealed the acts of 1893 and 1899 without any clause saving the right
of the State in respect to charges already accrued thereunder. Plaintiff
in error contended that as this court had jurisdiction on the constitutional question, it should reverse the judgment, on the ground that since
the repeal of the acts of 1893 and 1899 the State has no power to enforce
any taxes levied thereunder. Held that:
As the Federal question on which the writ of error is prosecuted has not
become a moot one, and the affirmance of the judgment on that question
alone will not prejudice the right of plaintiffs in error to have the purely
local question of whether the State still has the right to enforce the taxes
levied prior to the act of 1905, determined by the state court, it is the
duty of this court to consider and decide the Federal question only leaving the local question open for investigation in, and adjudication by, the
state courts.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive a State of the power to regulate and burden the right to inherit, but at the most can only be held
to restrain such an exercise of power as would e-xclude the conception
of judgment and discretion and would be so obviously arbitrary and
unreasonable as to be beyond the pale of governmental authority; and
the statutes of California, therefore, are not unconstitutional because
near relatives by affinity are preferred to collateral relatives.

TUm facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles H. Garroutte,with whom Mr. William N. Goodwin and Mr. Curtis H. Lindley were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:
The act involved does not purport to regulate succession
of estates. Estate of Cope, 191 Pa. St. 1; Re Magnes' Estate,
77 Pac. Rep. 854; State ex rel. v. Fermis, 53 Ohio St. 1. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

case can be distinguished from the Magoun, case, 170 U. S.
283, 303, and Billings v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 97, one of which
upheld a classification on amount of property and the other
on the character of the property.
When a classification of persons inter sese is made, then all
persons standing alike in the eyes of the law must be placed
in the same class; and if some are omitted and thereby discriminated against, they are denied the equal protection of
the law.
This is a tax act. Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115; Dos
Passos on Inheritance Tax Laws, 37; Est. of Wilmerding, 117
California, 281; Est. of Campbell, 143 California, 627; Eyre v.
Jacobs, 14 Gratt. 427; State v. Hamlin, 86 Maine, 494. As to
what the classification of persons subjected to tax laws may
be see Minot v. Winthrop, 162 Massachusetts, 113; Black v.
State, 113 Wisconsin, 205; and as to the rule by which the
constitutionality of the classification may be tested see Gulf
Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; St. Louis Railway v. Paul, 62 Am.
St. Rep. 175, note. The classification must always be based
on reasonable grounds. Conolly v. Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540, 563; Coifing v. Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79; Sugar Co. v.
Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89; Railroad Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S.
76, 101; Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557; M., K. & T.
Ry. v. May, 194 U. S. 267. In this case there is no reasonable
ground for the classification which has been made and tested
by the Magoun, case, supra; it is unconstitutional. The legislative history of collateral tax laws shows that this law is improper and unusual. Connecticut Statutes of 1888 and see
the California act revising this law. Statutes, 1905, 341.
Presumptions in favor of the validity of this legislation
should not be indulged. Cases supra and Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, 527; Yiek- Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 366.
While the Fourteenth Amendment as settled in Knowlton v.
Moore, 178 U. S. 41, does not affect acts of Congress there
is a provision of the Federal Constitution which forbids
Congress from denying to citizens of the United States the

CAMPBELL v. CALIFORNIA.
200 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

equal protection of the laws. Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S.
310, 325.
There is no vested right in the State to the tax and it is no
longer payable since the repeal of the act. Dos Passos, 423;
Blackwell on Tax Titles, ยง 1047; 1 Desty on Taxation, 9;
Flannigan v. Sierra County, 196 U. S. 553.
Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, with whom Mr. E. B. Power, Mr. Lewis F. Byington
and Mr. I. Harris were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The rule of classification adopted by the state court is correct. De Yoe v. Superior Court, 140 California, 476; Magoun
v. Trust Co., 170 U. S. 283; Gulf Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150;
Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557; People v. Railroad Co.,
105 California, 576, 584; Ex parte Jentzsch, 112 California,
469, 474; Re Wilmerding, 117 California, 281, 286.
No right guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment is
invaded by the act. See cases supra. The classification need
not necessarily be based upon blood relationship.
For other cases upholding, as constitutional, inheritance
tax laws making discriminations between relatives, see United
States v. Perkins, 163 U. S. 625; State v. Dalrymple, 70 Maryland, 294; In re Meriam, 141 N. Y. 479; State v. Hamlin, 86
Maine, 495; State v. Alston, 94 Tennessee, 674; Minot v. Winthrop, 162 Massachusetts, 113; Gelsthorpe v. Furnell, 51 Pac.
Rep. 267; Eyre v. Jacob, 14 Gratt. (Va.) 428; In re McPherson,
104 N. Y. 306; In re Shewrell's Estate, 125 N. Y. 397; Drake
v. Kockersperger, 167 Illinois, 122; Billings v. People, 189
Illinois, 472; Scholey v. Rew, 23 Wall. 331; High v. Coyne, 93
Fed. Rep. 451, sustaining the succession taxes imposed by
acts of Congress in 1866 and 1898, respectively, in which
similar principles were involved.
The act of 1905, even if it repeals the act of 1893 and the
amendments thereto, does not affect the right of the State
to its five per cent of the estates of persons who died prior to
the first of July, 1905.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

IR. JusicE WHiTE delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1893 a law was enacted in California, imposing a charge on
collateral inheritances and on bequests and devises. California
Stat. 1893, p. 193. The burdens which the law imposed were
not laid upon inheritances, bequests or devises in favor of the
father, mother, husband, wife, children, brother or sister of a
decedent, or wife or widow of a son, or the husband of a daughter of the decedent, adopted children and certain public and
charitable corporations. In the year 1899 the law of 1893 was
amended. The amendment caused the charge imposed by the
prior act to become applicable in the case of brothers and sisters of a decedent. This resulted because the amendment
omitted brothers and sisters from the enumeration made in the
act of 1893 of persons to whom the act was not to apply. California Stat. 1899, p. 101.
In December, 1900, Cornelia E. Campbell died intestate in
the city of San Francisco, and her estate was administered upon
by the appropriate court. In December, 1901, a final decree
was entered, apportioning the estate remaining, after the payment of certain specified amounts, among three brothers and a
sister who are the plaintiffs in error in this court. One of the
sums directed by the decree to be paid before distribution was
a collateral inheritance charge of $488.70, under the act of 1893
as amended in 1899.
The brothers and sister appealed to the Supreme Court of
California from that portion of the decree directing the payment
of the charge just mentioned. The validity of the law imposing
the burden was assailed upon various grounds of a local nature,
and upon the Federal ground that the amendatory act of 1899,
in so far as it purported to impose a charge on inheritances, bequests or devises to brothers and sisters, denied the equal protection of the laws, and was hence repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. The
Supreme Court of California affirmed the decree. In doing so it
held that the contentions of a local nature were without merit,

CAMPBELL v. CALIFORNIA.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and that the act of 1893 as amended by the act of 1899 was
not in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. 143 California 623.
With the questions of a local nature decided by the state
court we are not concerned, and shall therefore confine our attention to the Federal question, that is, the alleged repugnancy
to the Fourteenth Amendment, imposing the burden in question on brothers and sisters.
The asserted repugnance of the statute to the Constitution of
the United States, as elaborately argued at bar, rests upon the
proposition that the statute denied to brothers and sisters of a decedent the equal protection of the laws, because the statute embraced an inheritance, bequest or devise in favor of a brother or
sister, and did not include bequests or devises in favor of a wife
or widow of a son or the husband of a daughter of the decedent.
Before coming to consider this subject we must notice a
wholly independent question, which the plaintiffs in error assert
renders a reversal necessary, irrespective of the merits of the
contention based upon the Federal question.
In March, 1905, since the record on this writ of error was filed
in this court, the State of California enacted a new inheritance
tax law. California Stat. 1905, p. 341. This act differs from
the act of 1893 as amended in 1899 in many particulars. It includes within the classes subjected to the burdens imposed persons not embraced in the act of 1893 as amended, and whilst it
does not except from its operation persons embraced in the prior
act as amended, creates as to some of such persons a different
rate and carves out exemptions as to designated amounts of
property, not found in the earlier act. Besides, by the act,
brothers and sisters or a descendant of such brothers and sisters,
and the wife or widow of a son or a husband of a daughter of a
decedent, are made subject to a like charge, less, however, in
rate than the one theretofore imposed upon a brother or sister.
The act of 1905, as declared in its title and as manifested by its
provisions, was intended to cover generally the subject of inheritance taxes, and by necessary effect operated to amend and

OCTOBER TERAT, 1905.
Opinion of the Court

200 U. S.

reenact the prior laws on the subject. In the body of the act
was contained a section (27), expressly repealing the act of
1893 and the amendments thereto, without embodying a clause
saving the right of the State in respect to the charges which had
accrued to the State under the prior acts.
The proposition is, that the act of 1905 relieved the plaintiffs
in error from the duty to pay resulting from the prior laws,
even if those laws were not repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment, and, therefore, the contention is that it becomes
our duty to so decide, and hence to reverse the judgment without passing upon the Federal question. The plaintiffs in error
do not suggest that the writ of error be dismissed because by
the California statute, upon which they rely, the constitutional
question has become merely a moot one, but their contention
is that we should maintain jurisdiction and reverse upon the
ground previously stated. We cannot assent to the proposition. The statute upon which it is based was enacted subsequently to the decision of the Supreme Court of California, and
if that statute had the effect, as asserted, of depriving the State
of power to enforce the judgment below rendered, the right to
claim relief, based upon the action of the State, taken since the
Supreme Court of California decided the case, will, we assume,
be open to investigation in the state courts, if, in deciding the
Federal question adversely to the plaintiffs in error, we do not
conclude the question referred to. Under these conditions we
thinkit is our duty to decide the Federal question upon which the
writ of error was prosecuted, and leave open the purely local
question, which has arisen since the decision by the lower court.
Of course, of our own motion we must determine whether the
enactment of the subsequent statute so obviously had the effect
of relieving the plaintiffs in error from the burden imposed by
the judgment below as to cause the Federal question to become
merely a moot one. In view of the general and continuing
nature of the legislation contained in the statute of 1905 (Bear
Lake IrrigationCo. v. Garland, 164 U. S. 1; Steamship Co. v.
Jolife, 2 Wall. 450), we are clearly of the opinion that it cannot

CAMPBELL v. CALIFORNIA.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be said that this case has become a moot one. Especially is
this true when the ruling of the Supreme Court of California in
Estate of Stanford, 126 California, 112, is considered. In that
case, in 1897, while an appeal was pending in the Supreme
Court of California from a decree directing the payment by the
Estate of Stanford of a charge or charges imposed by authority of the act of 1893, the legislature of California amended
the act and established certain exemptions, which it declared
should apply to all property which had passed by will, succession or transfer after the approval of the act of 1893, except in
those cases where the tax had been paid to the treasurer of the
proper county. As to enforce the amendatory act would have
relieved the Estate of Stanford from the burdens of which complaint was made, the question presented to the Supreme Court
of California was whether, if the burdens were authorized by the
act of 1893, it was the duty of the court to apply the provisions
of the amendatory act and reverse the judgment pending before
it, because the right to enforce the impositions had terminated
by the effect of the amendatory act. After deciding that the
act of 1893 authorized the burdens complained of, the court,
in considering the terms of that statute, the nature and character of an inheritance tax, and the power of the State over the
disposition of property in case of death, held that it was its
duty to affirm the decree because of the vested right existing
in the State under the act of 1893, and because the act of 1897,
in attempting to abrogate such vested right, was repugnant to
specified provisions of the constitution of California. Putting
aside then all question as to the operation of the statute of
1905, and reserving from any decree which we may render all
rights, if any, in favor of the plaintiffs in error which may have
arisen from the passage of that statute, we are brought to a
consideration of the merits of the Federal question.
The contention is that the assailed law of California was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, because it subjected
to the burdens of an inheritance tax or charge brothers and
sisters of a decedent, and did not subject to any burden such

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

20 U. S.

strangers to the blood as the wife or widow of a son or the husband of a daughter of a decedent. We do not stop to refer in
detail to the many forms of argument by which the contention
is sought to be sustained, but content ourselves with stating
that, whatever be the form in which the propositions relied on
are advanced, they all reduce themselves to and must depend
upon the soundness of the contention that the Fourteenth
Amendment compels the States, in levying inheritance taxes,
and, a fortiori, in regulating inheritances, to conform to blood
relationship. That is to say, in their last analysis all the arguments depend upon the proposition that the Fourteenth
Amendment has taken away from the States their power to
regulate the passage of property by death or the burdens which
may be imposed resulting therefrom, because that amendment
confines the States absolutely, both as to the passage of such
property and as to the burdens iinposed thereon, to the rule of
blood relationship. To state the proposition is to answer it.
Its unsoundness is demonstrated by previous decisions of this
court. Magoun v. Illinois Trust &-Savings Bank, 170 U. S.
283; Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, 562. It is
true that in the first of the cited cases it was expressly declared
or impliedly recognized that in the exercise by a State of its
undoubted power to regulate the burdens which might be imposed on the passage of property by death, a case might be conceived of where a burden would be so arbitrary as to amount
to a denial of the equal protection of the laws. But this suggestion did not imply that the effect of the Fourteenth Amendment was to control the States in the exercise of their plenary
authority to regulate inheritances and to determine the persons
or objects upon which an inheritance burden should be imposed.
In this case there can be no doubt, if the right of a State be conceded to select the persons who may inherit or upon whom the
burden resulting from an inheritance may be imposed, the complaint against the statute is entirely without merit. The whole
case, therefore, must rest upon the assumption that because the
State of California has not followed the rule of blood relation-

CAMPBELL v. CALIFORNIA.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ship, but as to particular classes has applied the rule of affinity
by marriage, therefore the constitutional provision guaranteeing the equal protection of the laws was violated. But, unless
the effect of the Fourteenth Amendment was inexorably to
limit the States in enacting inheritance laws to the rule of blood
relationship, such a regulation plainly involved the exercise of
legislative discretion and judgment, with which the Fourteenth
Amendment did not interfere. Such a regulation cannot in
reason be said to be an exercise of merely arbitrary power. To
illustrate. It assuredly would not be an arbitrary exercise of
power for a State to put in one class, for the purpose of inheritance or the burdening of the privilege to inherit, all blood relatives to a designated degree, excluding brothers and sisters, and
to place all other and more remote blood relatives, including
brothers and sisters, in a second class along with strangers to
the blood. This being true it cannot, without causing the
equality clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to destroy the
powers of the States on a subject of a purely local character,
be held that a classification which takes near relatives by marriage and places them in a class with lineal relatives is so arbitrary as to transcend the limits of governmental power. If
this were not true, state legislation preferring a wife in the distribution of the estate of her husband to a brother or sister of
the husband would be void as repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment. So also would be the provision in the California
statute we are considering, preferring an adopted child of a decedent to a brother or sister. With the motives of public policy
which may induce a State to prefer near relatives by affinity
to collateral relatives, we are not concerned, since the Fourteenth Amendment does not deprive a State of the power to
regulate and burden the right to inherit, but at the most can
only be held to restrain such an exercise of power as would exclude the conception of judgment and discretion, and which
would be so obviously arbitrary and unreasonable as to be beyond the pale of governmental authority.
Affined.

