OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

PEORIA GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY v. PEORIA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 33. Argued Octobor 30, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.
A gas company brought an action against a city in Illinois to restrain the
enforcement of an ordinance fiing price of gas on the ground that the
low price practically amounted to taking property without compensation and that the ordinance impaired contract rights. The case was
tried on these questions but they were ignored by the court which decided adversely to the company, although the master had reported that
the rates were confiscatory, on the single ground that the company had
for a period violated the anti-trust law of Illinois and thereby was not
entitled to relief, held that:
Although parties making an agreement, unlawful by the anti-trust act of
Illinois, may while the agreement is in force be subject to its penalties,
whenever they cease to act under the agreement the penalties also cease.
As the case had been tried on one theory and decided on another and injustice had probably resulted, the judgment should be reversed and sent
back so that the terms and duration of the alleged agreement may be ascertained and taken into consideration in determining the case.

Tins was a bill filed in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois by the Peoria Gas and
Electric Company to restrain the enforcement of an ordinance
passed by the defendant, fixing the price of gas. A decree was
entered in the Circuit Court dismissing the bill, and the case
was brought directly here, as involving a constitutional question.
The facts are these: Prior to 1899 for a period of many years,
the Peoria Gaslight and Coke Company had manufactured and
furnished gas to the city of Peoria and its citizens. The business had been profitable and the stock was valuable. In 1899
the plaintiff company was organized to construct gas works in
Peoria, and that city, by ordinance, granted to it a franchise
permitting it to construct and operate a gas plant and lay mains
along certain streets, etc. It is charged that in order to obtain

GAS COMPANY v. PEORIA.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

this franchise the promoters of the plaintiff company represented that it was to be a Peoria company and enterprise, and
that it would furnish gas at a cheaper rate than the old company; that in fact it was a scheme of certain Chicago capitalists, who, as soon as the ordinance was passed and the plant
constructed, appeared as owners of substantially the entire
stock. After the new company was organized and its plant
constructed the two companies became competitors, the competition being so sharp that in the early summer of 1900 the
new company lowered its price to 30 cents per thousand cubic
feet for both light and fuel gas. On July 31, 1900, after a conference between the managers of the two companies, both raised
the rate to $1.15 net for light and 75 cents net for fuel gas, to
take effect August 1, 1900. The announcements of this raise
in the rates were published in the Peoria papers on the same
day, each announcement being in precisely the same language.
On September 4, 1900, the city passed an ordinance providing
that the maximum price for gas should be 75 cents per thousand
cubic feet, and that the gas to be furnished should not be less
than eighteen candle power.
On September 18, 1900, the plaintiff filed this bill of complaint, setting forth its organization, the ordinance under which
it was given authority to occupy certain streets and that of
September 4, 1900; alleged that the latter ordinance was invalid as establishing a rate which was not remunerative and in
effect confiscatory, and was thus taking private property for
public use without just compensation and depriving the plaintiff of its property without due process of law. The city answered, narrating the circumstances attending the organization
of the plaintiff and the passage of the ordinance authorizing it
to occupy the streets and supply the city with gas, with the
representation made at the time, and claimed an estoppel by
reason thereof, showing also the rates which had been the result
of competition, the raise in price by the two companies, charged
that this was by agreement between the companies, alleged that
the ordinance of September 4 was passed in good faith and to
voL. ce-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

prevent extortion by the companies, and also that the rate fixed
was reasonable. While the answer alleged that the fixing of
the rates from the first of August was by agreement between
the two corporations, it did not, in terms, plead that the agreement was in violation of any particular statute.
By consent a special commissioner was appointed to take the
proofs and report the same with his findings and conclusions
thereon. He took an enormous amount of testimony, the
printed record in this court amounting to 1,780 pages. From
it he found and reported that the rate prescribed by the ordinance of September 4 did not furnish compensation, was confiscatory in its effect, and therefore unreasonable. Exceptions
were taken by both sides to different portions of his findings
and conclusions of law. On a hearing before the Circuit Court
the question of the reasonableness of the rates prescribed was
ignored, the court found that the increase in rates on August 1,
1900, was the result of an illegal combination between the two
gas companies and in violation of the Illinois anti-trust law of
1891, that, therefore, the plaintiff was not entitled to any relief
against the ordinance of September 4, and entered a decree
dismissing the bill.
The anti-trust act of Illinois, approved June 11, 1891 (Laws,
1891, p. 206), forbids the entering into any "pool, trust, agreement, combination, confederation or understanding
to regulate or fix the price of any article of merchandise or commodity," and punishes the same by fine. Sections 5 and 6 are
as follows:
"5. Any contract or agreement in violation of any provision
of the preceding sections of this act shall be absolutely void.
"6. Any purchaser of any article or commodity from any
individual, company or corporation transacting business contrary to any provision of the preceding sections of this act shall
not be liable for the price or payment of such article or commodity, and may plead this act as a defense to any suit for such
price or payment."
Subsequently and in 1893 another act was passed, which was

GAS COMPANY v. PEORIA.
200 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

held by this court in Connolly v. Sewer PipeCompany, 184 U. S.
540, to constitute class legislation, and to be void. An amendment in 1897 to the act of 1891 was subject to the same objection. The Supreme Court of Illinois has since held that the act
of 1891 was not repealed by the act of 1893 or the amendment
of 1897, and is still in force. The People ex rel. v. Butler Street
Foundry, 201 Illinois, 236, 257; Chicago, Wilmington & Vermilion Coal Co. v. The People, 214 Illinois, 421, 454.
Mr. B. C. Ritsher, and Mr. IV. T. Abbott with whom Mr.
W. T. Irwin was on the brief, for appellant:
The contract in question was entered into more than a year
subsequent to the filing of the bill of complaint in this cause;
it existed for a period of but ten months and was terminated
more than a year before the court heard the arguments in
this cause.
A complainant who comes into court with clean hands
cannot by a temporary act of business accommodation, performed more than a year after the pleadings have been settled
-and fully completed and abandoned more than a year before
the hearing of the cause,-be denied rights guaranteed to it
by the Constitution of the United States.
If the contract in question were vicious and pertinent to
the issues in the case, the doctrine of locus pcenitentim would
apply. As a benign contract and wholly collateral to the
issues, it cannot properly be made an excuse for denying to
complainant its constitutional rights.
The illegality of corporate acts cannot be raised collaterally,
especially when the action is not one to enforce the illegal
agreement, and no rights are predicated upon it. Rector v.
Hartford Deposit Co., 190 Illinois, 387; Gas Light Co. v. Memnphis, 72 Fed. Rep. 952; Bridge Co. v. Streator, 105 Fed. Rep.
729; L. S. & M. S. Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 698; Gilbert v.
Am. Surety Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 494; Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 450; Macginnis v. B. & 31. Con. Co. (Mont.),
75 Pac. Rep. 89; Kinner v. L. S. & M. S. Ry. Co., 69 Ohio St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellant.

200 U. S.

376; Planters' Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483; Strait v.
Nat. Harrow Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 819; Dennehy v. McNulta, 30
C. C. A. 422; S. C., 86 Fed. Rep. 825; Wiswall Co. v. Scott,
86 Fed. Rep. 671; Box and Paper Co. v. Robertson, 99 Fed.
Rep. 985; Harrison v. Glucose Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 304.
A fortiori, a collateral attack will not be permitted even
under a special statute, if the statute is not pleaded or its
inhibition challenged by the issues in the case, especially
where the remedy given by the statute is cumulative and
differs from or is in addition to that given by the common
law. Moreover, such defense must be set up by plea and not
by answer. Chicago & Alton Ry. Co. v. Dillon, 123 Illinois,
570; Haskins v. Alcott, 13 Ohio St. 210; Denton v. Moore's
Administrator,2 Tennessee, 168; Neagle v. Kelley, 146 Illinois,
465; Chambers v. Chambers, 4 G. & J. (Md.) 438; Tanning Co.
v. Turner, 14 N. J. Eq. 329; Curtis v. Mastin, 11 Paige's Ch.
15; Dyer v. Lincoln, 11 Vermont, 301; 1 Daniel's Ch. P1. &
Pr., 5th ed., 630; Farley v. Kittson, 120 U. S. 303, and cases
cited; Sullivan v. Portland &c. R. R., 94 U. S. 806; Dey v.
Dunham, 2 Johnson Ch. (N. Y.) 182; Crutcher v. Trabue 5,
Dana (Ky.), 82; Hudson v. Hudson's Admr., 6 Munford (Va.),
352; Prince v. Heylin, 1 Atkins, 494.
See also cases in which foreign corporations seeking to recover or protect their property have been met by the defense
that they had violated or failed to comply with the provisions
of some local statute in compliance with which only would
they have the right to do business in such State. Smith v.
Little, 67 Indiana, 549; St. L. &c. R. R. Co. v. FireAssociation,
60 Arkansas, 325; Brewery Co. v. Ester, 86 Hun (N. Y.), 22;
Telephone Co. v. Pesauken Township, 116 Fed. Rep. 910.
Such collateral attack is expressly forbidden in the Federal
courts. Blodgett v. Lanyon Zinc Co., 120 Fed. Rep. 893.
A defense must either be technically pleaded or the facts
constituting such defense must be properly alleged and relied
upon on the hearing of the cause in support of such defense.
Eyre v. Potter, 15 How. 42; French v. Shoemaker, 14 Wall.

GAS COMPANY v. PEORIA.
200 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

314; Babbitt v. Dotten, 14 Fed. Rep. 19; Spies v. Chicago &c.
R. R. Co., 40 Fed. Rep. 34; Britton v. Brewster, 2 Fed. Rep. 160;
S. C., aff'd 4 Fed. Rep. 808; Price v. Berrington, 15 Jurist,
999; S. C., 7 Eng. L. & Eq. 254; Wilde v. Gibson, 1 H. L.
Cases, 605; Ferraby v. Hobson, 2 Phillips, 255; Curson v.
Belworthy, 3 H. L. Cases, 742; Fire Ins. Co. v. Kavanaugh,
1892, A. C. 473; Harrison v. Guest, 8 H. L. Cases 481; Hickson
v. Lombard, 1 H. L. Cases, 324;Tillinghastv. Champlin, 4 R. I.
173; Fisher v. Boody, 1 Curtis, 206; Dashiell v. Grosvenor, 66
Fed. Rep. 334; S. C., aff'd 162 U. S. 425; Leighton v. Grant,
20 Minnesota, 345.
Even were it permissible to set up the anti-trust act collaterally, and even though such act had been specifically set
forth in the answer, it would not have been a proper defense
in this case.
The only possible purpose for which a violation of the statute might be urged would be for the purpose of inflicting upon
complainant the criminal penalties of the act or to show that
complainant was a criminal under the act. 1 Starr & Curtis,
2d ed., 1252.
If complainant had violated the anti-trust law, or any
other criminal statute, such fact would not bar its rights in
this suit. Gilbert v. Am. Surety Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 494;
Brewery Co. v. Breweries Co., 121 Fed. Rep. 713; Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Armstrong v. Am. Exch.
Bank, 133 U. S. 433; Planters' Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall.
483; Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258; Brooks v. Martin, 2
Wall. 70; Sharp v. Taylor, 2 Phillips' Ch. 801; McBlain v.
Gibbs, 17 How. 232.
When a court of equity is appealed to for relief, it will not
go outside of the subject matter of the controversy and make
its interference depend upon the conduct of the moving party
as to matters in no way affecting the equitable right which
he asserts against the defendant or the relief which he demands.
Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. ยง399; Lewis' Appeal, 67 Pa. St. 166;
Woodward v. Woodward, 41 N. J. Eq. 224; Insurance Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

Clunie, 88 Fed. Rep. 160; Bateman v. Fargarson,4 Fed. Rep.
32; Chicago v. Union Stockyards Co., 164 Illinois, 224; Trice
v. Comstock, 121 Fed. Rep. 620; Bonsack Machine Co. v. Smith,
70 Fed. Rep. 383; Mining Co. v. Miners Union, 51 Fed. Rep.
260; Knapp v. Jarvis Adams Co., 135 Fed. Rep. 1008; Yale
Gas Stove Co. v. Wilcox, 64 Connecticut, 101; DelawareSurety
Co. v. Layton (Del. 1901), 50 St. Rep. 378; Deering v. Earl of
Winchelsea, 1 Cox Ch. 318; Barton v. Mulvane, 59 Kansas, 314;
Foster v. Winchester, 92 Alabama, 497; Wiley v. National
Wall Paper Co, 70 Ill. App. 543.
Mr. Winslow Evans for appellee:
The Illinois anti-trust law is valid and its constitutionality
as it applies to this case has been upheld. The appellant
entered into a combination unlawful under the act and the
court will not aid it to reap the fruits thereof. Gibb v. Gas
Company, 130 U. S. 396, 412; Russell v. De Grand, 15 Massachusetts, 35.
Mr. William D. Guthrie by leave of the court and on behalf of Darius 0. Mills, a party to another pending case involving the question of the power of cities of Illinois to fix
the price of gas, submitted a brief contending that such power
did not exist under existing statutes.
Mr. James Hamilton Lewis, Mr. Henry M. Ashton and
Mr. David K. Tone by leave of the court and on behalf of
the City of Chicago, a party to such other pending action,
submitted a brief, in support of such power.
after making the foregoing statement,.
the
opinion
of
the
court.
delivered
MR. JusTIcE Biu-wER,

This case was tried on one theory and decided on another.
While that does not always and necessarily constitute error,
yet, under the circumstances, as disclosed by the record, we

GAS COMPANY v. PEORIA.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are of opinion that injustice has probably resulted and that
there should be a reversal of the decree and a further examination in the Circuit Court. As stated in the findings of the
commissioner, the bill proceeds upon the theory that the ordinance of September 4, 1900, impaired the rights of contract
theretofore existing between the parties, that its enforcement
would constitute the taking of private property for public use
without just compensation, that the penalties prescribed for a
violation of the ordinance were exorbitant and not sanctioned
by the laws of the State of Illinois, while the answer justified
the provisions of the ordinance by the statements and representations made by the stockholders in the company to the city
council at the time the plaintiff's franchise was sought, and
alleged that the rate therein fixed was reasonable. On these
questions the stress of the controversy was rested. The court
entirely ignored them and placed its decision on the single
ground that the two companies had by agreement attempted
to fix their prices, and therefore came within the scope of the
Illinois anti-trust law-an act which had not been in terms
referred to either in the pleadings or the report of the master.
There was no positive evidence and no finding by the commissioner of an agreement between the two companies, and
while from their action an inference might be drawn that they
had entered into some agreement in respect to rates on August 1, 1900, neither its terms, scope nor duration were shown.
It also appears from the testimony that that rate was continued
by the old company only until January 1, 1901, when an even
rate of one dollar per thousand was established, and that this
latter rate was on September 1, 1901, also established by the
new company, the plaintiff herein. Whether this action of the
new company in adopting the rate which had been kept in
force by the old company since January 1, 1901, was the result
of an agreement or an independent act on its part is not shown.
It appears further that in October, 1901, the plaintiff entered
into a contract with the old company to supply it with gas for
the use of its customers and that, the latter company desisting

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

temporarily from manufacture, this contract continued in force
until August 19, 1902, but this was found by the commissioner
to have been a purely private business arrangement between
the companies and without relation to the charges made by
either to its customers. Doubtless it, together with the evidence of changes in holding of stock, tended to show at least a
cessation of competition between the two companies, if not of
a unity of control or agreement between them.
We shall assume that there was testimony from which the
court justly found that the rates announced on August I were
fixed by an agreement between the two companies. We shall
also assume, though without deciding, that while that agreement was in force and the parties were acting under it, neither
could recover for the gas that it furnished, nor could this plaintiff question the validity of the ordinance of September 4. But
although the stringent provisions of the Illinois anti-trust law
may apply to the case of an agreement between two gas
companies fixing the price of gas, and even if while the parties
are proceeding under it any party receiving gas may avoid payment therefor on that ground, and the city likewise be upheld
in an ordinance establishing maximum rates which are not remunerative, yet the making of such an agreement does not
subject the companies to a perpetual penalty. Parties making
an agreement, unlawful by the anti-trust act, may while the
agreement is in force be subject to its penalties, but whenever
they cease to act under it the penalties also cease. The punishment adheres to the offense and stops when the offense itself
stops. Now it is in evidence that the prices were changed by
the old company on the first of January, 1901-five months
after the alleged agreement for a uniform rate-and that for
months thereafter each company was charging a different rate,
but the decree was one of absolute dismissal-an adjudication
that the ordinance of September 4 was valid, an adjudication
which became res judicata for all future litigation, and this in
the face of the finding by the commissioner, undisturbed by the
court, that the rates established by it are not remunerative,

GUARDIAN TRUST CO. v. FISHER.
200 U. S.

Syllabus.

and thus work a gradual confiscation of the property belonging
to the plaintiff.
We think that under the circumstances the decree should be
reversed and the case remanded with instructions either to refer
it to a commissioner for further findings, with leave to take additional testimony if that be deemed necessary, showing the
terms and duration of the alleged agreement between the two
companies, and how far it was acted upon by them, or that the
court should itself undertake this investigation and make like'
findings.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Reversed.

GUARDIAN TRUST AND DEPOSIT COMPANY v.
FISHER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 75. Argued November 2M, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.
Section 1255 of the Code of North Carolina of 1883 provides that mortgages
of corporations shall not exempt the property mortgaged from execution
for judgments obtained in the state courts against the corporation for
torts and certain other causes. A corporation constructed a plant for
supplying a city with water, having received exclusive authority therefor from the city. It executed two mortgages, under the foreclosure of
the second of which its plant was sold, subject to the first mortgage, to
a new corporation, which then executed a further mortgage. Subsequently judgments were rendered in actions brought by property-owners
against the new corporation for damages caused, as charged in the conplaints and recited in the judgments by its negligence. On foreclosure
of the outstanding mortgages the holders of these judgments were given
priority over the mortgagees, notwithstanding the contention of the latter
that the property owners had no contractual relations with, or right to
maintain these actions against, the water company, that the judgments
were not conclusive, the mortgagees not being parties thereto, and that
only the equity acquired by the new company was subject to any judgment lien. In affirming the decision, held that:

