OCTOBiNI TERI11, 1905.
Counsel for Parties.

200 U. S.

SAN ANTONIO TRACTION COMPANY v. ALTGELT.
IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS,
No. 131.

Argued Decembcr 13, 1905.-Decided January 22, 1906.

Even though an ordinance extending a franchise may be construed as a
contract, it is still subject to the control of the legislature if the constitution of the State then in force provides that no irrevocable or uncontrollable grant of privileges shall be made and that all privileges granted
by the legislature, or under its authority, shall be subject to its control;
nor is the legislature deprived of this control because the contract was
not made by it but by a municipal corporation, as the latter is for such
purpose merely an agency of the State.
Where, after a new constitution has been adopted, a railway, chartered
prior to such adoption, is consolidated with other roads or accepts new
privileges, all contracts, privileges and franchises conferred are subject
to the provisions of the new constitution.
Where a corporation chartered prior to the existing constitution of a State
is wound up and all of its property, contracts and obligations transferred
by ordinance to a new corporation, the ordinance must be construed in
connection with the constitution and the provisions for further control
therein contained.

Tins was a petition by Altgelt, suing by his next friend, originally filed in the District Court of Bexar County, for a peremptory mandamus against the Traction Company, a Texas
corporation operating a street railway system, commanding it
to issue to the plaintiff twenty half-iaie street car tickets upon
the payment of fifty cents, the same being at the rate of two
and a half cents per ticket.
Both parties relied upon the legal effect of certain legislation
of the State of Texas hereafter set forth. The mandamus was
granted by the District Court, whose action was affirmed by
the Court of Civil Appeals. An application for a writ of error
from the Supreme Court was denied.
Mr. Charles T. Ogden for plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance for defendant in error.

SAN ANTONIO TRACTION CO. v. ALTGELT.
200 U. S.

305

Opinion of the Court.

AIR. JUSTICE BRowN,, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
This case depends upon the construction and validity of certain legislative acts of the State of Texas from 1874, the date
of the original charter, to 1903, the date of the act complained
of as an impairment of the Traction Company's contract.
The Constitution of 1869, in force at the time the original
company was chartered, contained no limitation upon the power
of the legislature to grant franchises in towns, cities and other
subdivisions of the State. The San Antonio Street Railway
Company was incorporated in 1874 by special act, in which it
was provided, sectibn 8, that "all contracts made and entered
into between the mayor and aldermen of the city of San Antonio and said company, or any privileges and rights granted
. . . to said company, shall be in all respects legal and
binding on the aforesaid contracting parties," and by section 9,
that the charter "shall remain in full force and effect for the
period of fifty years."
By ordinance of the city council of October 5, 1875,
privilege was granted to the San Antonio Street Railway Company to construct a first class horse railway, during the term
of its charter, upon the streets of said city upon certain routes;
but the ordinance did not fLx the rate of fare to be charged for
the transportation of persons over its projected lines.
By article X, section 7, of the constitution of Texas of 1876,
it was provided that "no law shall be passed by the legislature
granting the right to construct and operate a street railway
within any city, town or village, or upon any public highway,
without first acquiring the consent of the local authorities having control of the street or highway proposed to be occupied by
said railway. "
Section 17 of article I of the bill of rights of the same constitution provides that " no irrevocable or uncontrollable
grant of special privileges or immunities shall be made; but
all privileges and franchises granted by the legislature, or
VOL. c -20

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

1,00u U. S

created under its authority, shall be subject to the control
thereof."
On March 16, 1899, twenty-three years after the adoption of
this constitution, an ordinance of the city was passed granting
an extension of time to the San Antonio Street Railway, and
the San Antonio Edison Company, and imposing certain limitations upon the exercise of their franchises, among which was
that "said street railway companies shall charge five cents fare
for one continuous ride over any one of their lines, with one transfer to or from either line to the other."
It was also provided, by section 11 of the same ordinance,
that "the rights, privileges and franchises, or either of them
herein referred to and hereby extended, may be assigned by
the grantee or grantees to any person or corporation, and
the limitations of this ordinance shall apply to the assignee
thereof."
On April 4, 1900, all the property of this company was sold
under the decree of a state court to a trustee for the stockholders, subject to the payment of the debts of the company,
and to the performance of all outstanding contract obligations,
which were declared "a preference lien" against all the property sold in the hands of the purchaser. The conveyance expressly stipulated that "within the meaning of the words 'contract obligations' shall be understood any and all existing contracts of the said San Antonio Street Railway Company for
street railway service over its road, or any portion thereof, had
with any person or persons, now binding on said street railway
company."
On August 7, 1900, the common council of the city passed
an ordinance reciting the sale of the property and privileges
of the former corporations, the San Antonio and Edison Companies, to the Traction Company, and enacting that all the
rights and privileges theretofore granted to the former companies, which were said to be "now defunct," with all ti e
limitations, duties, contracts and obligations imposed and r.quired of the said San Antonio Street Railway Company were

SAN ANTONIO TRACTION CO. v. ALTELT.
200 U. S.

307

Opinion of the Court.

imposed upon the Traction Company. This ordinance was
accepted.
The legislation remained in this condition until April 10,
1903, when the legislature of the State passed a new act, the
second section of which reads as follows:
"Src. 2. All such persons or corporations owning or operating street railways, shall sell or provide for the sale of tickets
in lots of twenty, each good for onie trip over the line or lines
.owned or operated by such person or corporation, at and for
one-half the regular fare or charge collected for the transportation of adult persons, to students not more than seventeen
years of age, in actual attendance upon any academic public
or private school, of grades not higher than the grades of the
public high schools of this State, situated within or adjacent
to the town or city in which such street railway is located.
Such tickets are required to be sold only upon the presentation
by the student desiring to purchase the same, of the written
certificate of the principal of the school upon which he is in
attendance, showing that he is not more than seventeen years
of age, is in regular attendance upon such school, and is within
the grades hereinbefore provided. Such tickets are not required to be sold to such students, and shall not be used except during the months of the year when such schools are in
actual session, and such students shall be transported at half
fare only upon the presentation of such tickets."
It is insisted by the plaintiff in error that, under section 7,
article X, of the state. constitution, above quoted, the power
to grant street railways the property rights and franchises, to
construct and operate a street railway within a city, is withdrawn from the legislature and conferred, if not by express
words, then by necessary implication, upon the municipal authorities. We do not so read the section. It merely provides
that no such law shall be passed by the legislature granting the
right to construct and operate a street railway without first
acquiring the consent of the local authorities, but we see nothing to prevent the legislature from chartering a street railway,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

provided such consent be acquired. Such we understand to
be the ruling of the Supreme Court of that State in Taylor v.
Dunn, 80 Texas, 652, 659, and Mayor v. Houston Street Railway
Company, 83 Texas, 548. But whether an act of the legislature
be necessary to charter a street railway is not involved in this
case, as we are cited only to the original charter of the San
Antonio Street Railway Company of 1874; although it is clear
that a new charter would be inoperative to authorize the construetion of the road without the consent of the municipal authorities.
Assuming, but not deciding, that the ordinance of March 16,
1899, extending the franchise of the San Antonio Street Railway, and imposing certain limitations, constituted a contract
pro tanto, the question still remains whether the provision "that
said street railway companies shall charge five cents fare for
one continuous ride over any one of their lines, with one transfer to or from either line to the other," constituted a contract
with respect to which no further legislation upon that subject
could be enacted without impairing its obligation. Even if
construed as a contract, it was still subject to the provisions
of the constitution of 1876, which in section 17 of the bill of
rights declared that no irrevocable or uncontrollable grant of
special privileges or immunities should be made; but that all
privileges granted by the legislature or created under its authority shall be subject to the control thereof.
An important consideration in this connection is that the
alleged contract was made twenty-three years after the constitution of 1876 was adopted, declaring that all privileges
granted by the legislature shall be subject to its control.
Clearly it was not deprived of that control by the fact that the
contract was not entered into by the legislature itself, but by
a municipal corporation, since that is but an agency of the
State, to which is delegated the power to regulate street railways and other municipal franchises. We have repeatedly
held that where a railway was originolly chartered before a new
constitution took effect (and hence such charter was not limited

SAN ANTONIO TRACTION CO. v. ALTGELT.
200 U. S.

309

Opinion of the Court.

thereby), yet if such road be subsequently consolidated with
other roads, or accepts new privileges, after a new constitution
takes effect, all contracts, privileges and franchises conferred
after the adoption of such constitution are subject to its provisions. Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319; Railroad Co. v. Maine,
96 U. S. 499; Railroad Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S. 359; Keokuk &c.
R. R. v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301; Yazoo &c. Railroad Co. v.
Adams, 180 U. S. 1, 23.
In this case not only did the original San Antonio Street
Railway Company become extinct by the foreclosure and sale

of its property, but under the ordinance of August 17, 1900,
declaring the prior companies to be "now defunct," the Traction Company also became the owner of all the property, assets,
rights and privileges of another company, known as the San
Antonio Edison Company, which thus became absorbed with
the street railway company in the new corporation known as
the Traction Company, which is admitted to have been incorporated since 1876, though the charter is not in the record.
We are clearly of the opinion that under these circumstances
it received its franchise under the constitution of 1876, which
forbade either the legislature or the municipal authorities to
make any irrevocable contract.
It is true that in this ordinance it was provided that all rights
and privileges previously granted to the Street Railway Company and the Edison Company were conferred unto the Traction Company, including all the limitations, contracts and obligations, but this ordinance must be construed in connection
with the constitution of 1876, which made all such privileges
and franchises subject to the control thereof. Such was the
view taken by the Court of Civil Appeals of Texas in this case,
which expressly waived the question whether the provision of
the former ordinance fixing a five-cent fare constituted a contract or not, declaring that if it did it was subject to further
legislative control.
Under the bill of rights of that constitution the legislature
could not reduce the fares to a confiscatory amount or to an

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

amount which would render it unprofitable to operate the road.
There is no allegation of that kind in this bill, and no evidence
that the reduction of the school tickets in question would
seriously impair its revenues. Indeed, it was found in the opinion of the court below that it was not contended there, and
that there was nothing in the evidence tending to show, that
the rate of fare claimed by the appellee under the act of 1903
is not such as to leave to the company a sufficient income to
pay for repairs and a fair income on its investment.
The judgment of the Court of Civil Appeals is
Affirmed.

HIBERNIA SAVINGS & LOAN SOCIETY v. SAN FRANCISCO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 154.

Submitted December 14, 1905.-Decided January 29, 1906.

The principle that the States cannot tax official agencies of the Federal
Government does not apply to obligations such as checks and warrants
available for immediate use. A tax upon them is virtually a tax upon
the money which can be drawn upon their presentation.

Tms was an action by the plaintiff in error, begun in the
state Superior .Court to recover certain taxes paid under protest
upon two checks or orders for $120,000 and $1,875, respectively, signed by the Treasurer of the United States and addressed to the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the
United States, for interest accrued upon certain registered
bonds of the United States, owned by the plaintiff. These
checks were issued in compliance with Rev. Stat. ยง 3698,
which requires that "the Secretary of the Treasury shall cause
to be paid, out of any money in the Treasury not othervise
appropriated, any interest falling due, or accruing, on any
portion of the public debt authorized by law." The checks,

