C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMIM'RS.

561

Syllabus.

200 U.S.

as has been said, to obtain fair treatment for the public from
the roads, and reasonable charges for the transportation of
freight and the honest performance of duty, with no improper
or unjust preference or discrimination. Under such circumstances, the court ought not to adopt such a strict and unnecessary construction of the act as thereby to prevent an
honest and otherwise perfectly legal attempt to maintain joint
through rates, by destroying one of the worst abuses known
in the transportation business. The effort to maintain the
published through joint tariff rates is entirely commendable.
We think that the agreement in question, upon its face,
does not violate any provision of the Commerce Act, and
there is no evidence in the case which shows that in fact there
has been any such violation.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case
remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed, etc.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILWAY
COMPANY v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS
ex rel. DRAINAGE COMIISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 157. Argued December 14, 1905.-Decided March 5, 1906.

The failure of the state court to pass on the Federal right or immunity
specially set up of record, is not conclusive, but this court will decide
the Federal question if the necessary effect of the judgment is to deny
a Federal right or immunity specially set up or claimed, and which, if
recognized and enforced, would require a judgment different from one
resting upon some ground of local or general law.
Under the laws of Illinois the draining of bodies of land so as to make them
fit for human habitation and cultivation, is a public purpose, to accomplish which the State may by appropriate agencies exert the general
3fL

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

powers it possesses for the common good, and ยง 401 of the Farm Drainage
Act of that State was a proper exercise of the police power of the State.
The rights of a railroad company to a bridge over a natural watercourse
crossing its right of way, acquired under its general corporate power
are not superior and paramount to the right of the public to use that
watercourse for the purpose of draining lands in its vicinity in accordance with plans adopted by a drainage commission lawfully constituted under the Farm Drainage Act.
Although the opening under a bridge constructed by a railroad company
may be sufficient at the time to pass all water flowing through the watercourse, there is an implied duty on the part of the company to maintain
an opening adequate and effectual for such an increase in the volume
of water as may result from lawful and reasonable regulations established
by appropriate public authority from time to time for the drainage of
lands on either side of the watercourse.
tUncompensated obedience to a regulation enacted for the public safety
under the police power of the State is not taking property without due
compensation, and the constitutional prohibition against the taking of
private property without compensation is not intended as a limitation
of the exercise of those police powers which are necessary to the tranquility of every well-ordered community, nor of that general power over
private property which is necessary for the orderly existence of all governments.
In this case the proper drainage of the land in the district being impossible
without the removal of a railway bridge over the natural watercourse
into which the lands drained and the construction of a bridge with a
larger opening for the increased volume of water, held, that:
It is the duty of the railway company, at its own expense, to remove the
present bridge, and also (unless it abandons or surrenders its right to
cross the creek at or in that vicinity) to erect at its own expense and maintain a new bridge in conformity with regulations established by the
Drainage Commissioners, under the authority of the State; and such a
requirement, if enforced, will not amount to a taking of private property
for public use within the meaning of the Constitution, nor to a denial of
the equal protection of the laws.

Tis is a contest between certain Drainage Commissioners
in Illinois and the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway
Company, as to the validity of a demand made by the former
that the latter should remove the bridge and culvert now
maintained by it over Rob Roy Creek, in Kendall County,
Illinois, and, if it continues to maintain a bridge and culvert
at the same point, that one be substituted that will meet
the requirements of a certain plan of drainage adopted by

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMU'RS.
200 U. S.

563

Statement of the Case.

those Commissioners. Let us see in what way the dispute
arises.
This suit or proceeding is based in part on what is known
as the Farm Drainage Act of Illinois, in force July 1, 1885,
entitled "An act to provide for drainage for agricultural and
sanitary purposes, etc." Hurd's Ill. Stat. 1901, p. 712. By
that act the Commissioners of Highways in each town, in the
several counties under township organization, are constituted
Drainage Commissioners for all drainage districts in their respective towns, with power as a body politic to sue and be
sued, contract and be contracted with. Section 1. Owners of
lands are authorized to "drain the same in the general course
of natural drainage, by constructing open or covered drains,
discharging the same into any natural watercourse, or into any
natural depression, whereby the water will be carried into some
natural watercourse, or into some drain on the public highway with the consent of the Commissioners thereto; and when
such drainage is wholly upon the owner's land he shall not be
liable in damages therefor to any person or persons or corporation." Section 4.
The act also provided: "When the case involves a system
of combined drainage in one town, and it is proposed that the
cost shall be borne proportionately by the several parties
benefited, a petition addressed to the Drainage Commissioners
shall be presented to the town clerk, signed by a majority in
number of the adult owners of land lying in a proposed district, and they shall be the owners in the aggregate of more
than one-third of the lands lying in the proposed district, or
by the owners of the major part of the land and who constitute
one-third or more of the owners of the land in the proposed
district setting forth the boundaries, or a description of the
several tracts of land thereof or fractions as usually designated: . . . Said petition shall state that the lands lying
within the boundaries of said proposed district require a combined system of drainage or protection from wash or overflow;
that the petitioners desire that a drainage district may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

organized, embracing the lands therein mentioned, for the
purpose of constructing, repairing or maintaining a drain or
drains, ditch or ditches, embankment or embankments, grade
or grades, or all or either, within said district, for agricultural
and sanitary purposes, by special assessments upon the property benefited thereby." Section 11. Again: "Upon the organization of a drainage district, the Commissioners shall go
upon the land and determine upon a system of drainage, which
shall provide main outlets of ample capacity for the waters of
the district, having in view the future contingencies, as well as
the present. . . . The maps and papers showing the final
determination, as to the system of drainage, shall be filed in
the clerk's office and be recorded in the drainage record." Section 17. Hurd's Rev. Stat. Ill. 1901, 713, 714, 717.
Section 40 has, however, a more special application to the
present case. It is in these words: "The Commissioners shall
have the power and are required to make all necessary bridges
and culverts along or across any public highway or railroad
which may be deemed necessary for the use or protection of
the work, and the cost of the same shall be paid out of the
road and bridge tax, or by the railroad company, as the case
may be: Provided, however, notice shall first be given to the
road or railroad authorities to build or construct such bridge
or culvert, and they shall have thirty days in which to build
or construct the same, such bridges or culverts shall, in all
cases, be constructed so as not to interfere with the free flow
of water through the drains of the district. Should any railroad company refuse or neglect to build or construct any
bridge or culvert as herein required, the Commissioners constructing the same may recover the cost and expenses therefor
in a suit against said company before any justice of the peace
or any court having jurisdiction, and reasonable attorney's
fees may be recovered as part of the cost. The proper authorities of any public road or railroad shall have the right
of appeal the same as provided for individual land owners."
Section 40 . Hurd's Rev. Stat. Ill. 1901, 723.

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

565

Statement of the Case.

It is contended by the appellees that section 56 of what is
known as the Levee Act has a bearing on the case. That section need not, however, be set out, as the Supreme Court of
the State adjudged in this case that a District organized under
the Farm Drainage Act was subject only to the provisions
of that act, and that the Drainage Commissioners could not
claim any authority under the other act. Chicago, B. & Q.
Ry. Co. v. People of Illinois ex rel &c., 212 Illinois, 103. See
also Gauen v. Drainage District, 131 Illinois, 446; Drainage
Commissioners v. Volke, 163 Illinois, 243; leCaleb v. Coon
Run DrainageDistrict, 190 Illinois, 549.
The present proceeding was instituted in the Circuit Court
of Kendall County, Illinois, by the appellees as Drainage
Commissioners for the Bristol Drainage District in that county,
against the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railway Company. It is a petition for mandamus.
Besides a general demurrer, the railway company demurred
specially upon the ground that a judgment in favor of the
Commissioners would take its property for public use without
compensation, and therefore without due process of law, as
well as deny to it the equal protection of the laws, in violation
of the Constitution of the United States. The demurrer was
overruled. The defendant having elected to stand by its demurrer, judgment was rendered ordering a writ of mandamus
as prayed for in the petition. That judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Illinois, 212 Illinois, 103, and hence
the present writ of error.
As the case was determined upon the demurrer, the facts are
to be taken as alleged in the petition. The case, thus presented,
is as follows:
The Drainage District in question was organized under the
Farm Drainage Act above referred to, and contains about
2,000 acres of land on both sides of Rob Roy Creek, across
which are the road and right of way of the railway company.
For more than fifty years before the District was established,
that creek had been, as it now is, a natural watercourse. Prior

OCTOBER TERMI, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

to June 24, 1903, the Commissioners located a ditch or drain
on the line of the creek for the purpose of enlarging its channel
or watercourse, and thereby enabling the lands in the Drainage
District to be better drained and made more tillable.
The railway company operated and maintained its road
across Rob Roy Creek, not under any specific grant of authority, but under its general corporate power to construct, operate
and maintain a railroad. It placed a bridge or culvert twelve
by thirty feet at the point where the road crosses the creek.
In constructing a foundation for the bridge or culvert the
company sank or placed in the creek at the point of crossing
huge wooden timbers and stones, thereby preventing the deepening and enlarging of the creek by the Commissioners, unless
they removed such timbers and stones; and if that be done
the result will be the destruction of the bridge or culvert. The
present channel or waterway of the creek, under the bridge
or culvert, is three feet in depth and twelve feet in width. It
is insufficient to allow the natural flow of water in the ditch
or drain proposed to be constructed by the Commissioners.
The estimated cost of this ditch or open drain is twenty thousand dollars. The present bridge across the creek does not
exceed eight thousand dollars in value, and a new bridge conforming to the plan of the Commissioners, will cost not exceeding thirteen thousand dollars.
On the twenty-fourth of June, 1903, the Drainage Commissioners notified the railway company in writing that a
bridge was necessary at the point where the company's right
of way would be crossed or intersected by the proposed ditch;
that it was necessary to enlarge the opening under the present
bridge; that the proposed improvement was to be the waterway of a combined system of drainage established in the vicinity
under the charge and direction of the Drainage Commissioners
of the District; that the main ditch of the drainage where it
will intersect the company's right of way must be of the width
of twenty-three feet and of the depth of nine and one-half feet,
the bridge constructed to be of the width of twenty-three feet

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

567

Statement of the Case.

in the clear at the surface or level of land, and to permit at
least sixteen feet in the clear at the bottom of the ditch. The
notice stated that the company was required, in pursuance of
the statute in such case made and provided, to build and construct such bridge within thirty days from the date of the
notice, in default whereof the Commissioners would construct
the same at the cost and expense of the company.
The company disregarded the notice and failed to build and
construct the required bridge or culvert at the point of intersection with the creek, in accordance with the dimensions
specified in the notice, and so as to permit such enlargement
of the channel under the bridge as would be sufficient for the
natural flow of water in the proposed ditch or drain.
The petition averred that a majority of the lands of the
Drainage District were swamp or slough lands, and in their
present condition were not subject to cultivation, but by means
of the proposed deepening and enlarging of Rob Roy Creek,
and as a result of the removal of the timbers and stones in the
creek and the enlargement and deepening of the creek, all the
lands in the Drainage District would be "greatly improved,
and made good, tillable land, subject to cultivation;" that the
proposed location of the ditch or drain along the creek was the
best route or means for drainage of the District, constituting
the only natural watercourse of the Drainage District and
affording the only natural outlet or way of drainage of the lands
to make them tillable; that if said improvement and enlargement of the ditch was made and the timbers and stones removed from the creek, at the point of crossing, all of the lands
of the district would be made good, tillable lands for general
farming purposes; and that the proposed construction of a
ditch or drain along Rob Roy Creek, when completed in accordance with said plans, would "not divert or carry waters
which by nature of force of gravity would flow or drain into
any other natural watercourse in said Drainage District or the
vicinity thereof."
The Commissioners allege in their petition that the neglect,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

failure and refusal of the railway company to remove the timbers and stones it had placed in the creek, and to construct and
enlarge the opening under its bridge or culvert, had prevented
them from completing the construction of the ditch or drain
in accordance with the plans adopted by them; that it was
necessary for the use and protection of the proposed drainage
work that the opening underneath the bridge or culvert be
constructed and enlarged in the manner indicated in order
that the lands in the District might be drained in accordance
with said plans; which plans "are reasonable for the suitable
and proper drainage of said District."
The relief asked was a writ of mandamus commanding the
railway company to forthwith enlarge, deepen and widen the
waterway over and across the company's right of way across
Rob Roy Creek.
Mr. Albert J. Hopkins, with whom Mr. Robert Bruce Scott
and Mr. Chester M. Davis were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
Federal questions were raised in the trial court and in the
Supreme Court of Illinois which were decided adversely to
plaintiff in error, and this court therefore has jurisdiction of
the case, and the motion to dismiss the writ of error should be
overruled.
A writ of error lies to this court where the state court orders a writ of mandamus and a Federal question is involved.
Hartman v. G'reenhow, 102 U. S. 672; McPherson v. Blacker,
146 U. S. 1; M. & St. L. R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193
U. S. 53.
Even though the state court did not, in its opinion, expressly
refer to the Federal Constitution, if the judgment of affirinance
necessarily denied Federal rights specially set up by defendant, a writ of error will lie to this court. Roby v. Colhour,
146 U. S. 153; Green B. & M. Canal Co. v. Patten Paper Co.,
172 U. S. 58.
This court has jurisdiction in error over a judgment of the

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

569

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Supreme Court of a State when it necessarily involves the
decision of the question raised in that appellate court for the
first time, and not noticed in its opinion, whether a statute of
the State conflicts with the Constitution of the United States.
Arrowsmith v. Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194; Chicago Life Ins. Co.
v. Needles, 113 U. S. 574, 579; McCullough v. Virginia, 172
U. S. 102, 116; Chapman v. Goodnow's Admr., 123 U. S. 540,
548; Green B. & M. C. Co. v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S.
58, 68.
Even where this court is left in doubt by the briefs whether
the statute, as construed by the state Supreme Court, was objected to or only its application under the facts of the case,
still if the statute was directly attacked in the answer a motion
to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction will be
denied, and the court will consider whether the grounds of
objection to the statute are substantial and sufficient. M. &
St. L. R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S. 53, 61; Detroit &c. Ry.
v. Osborn, 189 U. S. 383.
A Federal question is involved if the effect of the state
decision is to construe an act alleged to violate the Federal
Constitution, although the state court does not mention the
statute. Houston & T. C. R. Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66.
Defendants in error base their motion to dismiss upon the
ground that the Supreme Court of Illinois decided the case upon
a non-Federal question. It seems to be conceded, as it must
be, that plaintiff in error, both in the trial court and in the
state Supreme Court, specially presented a Federal question,
but the argument is that the state Supreme Court did not decide this question, but disposed of the case upon an independent
ground.
The drainage district in question is a statutory corporation.
It possesses no powers not conferred upon it expressly or by
fair implication by the law of its creation or other statutes
applicable to it, since such bodies act wholly under a delegated
authority and can exercise only such powers as are expressly
conferred by their organic laws. C. & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Chi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

cago, 148 Illinois, 141, 161; Seeger v. Mueller, 133 Illinois,
86, 94.
The railway company met the issue thus presented by the
petition by filing in the trial court a general and special demurrer specifically setting up the unconstitutionality of the
statute, as repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment, in depriving defendant of property without due process of law, and
in denying it the equal protection of the laws, and as impairing the obligation of its charter rights.
There can be no doubt that the record fairly presented a
Federal question for review, and under the authority of Erie
R. R. Co. v. Purdy, 185 U. S. 148, this court has jurisdiction.
See also McCullough v. Virginia and other authorities, supra.
Section 40 of the Farm Drainage Act of Illinois, Hurd's
Rev. Stat. Ill., 1901, 723, is unconstitutional because it is
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 390; Scott v. Toledo,
36 Fed. Rep. 385 (Jackson, J.).
Corporations eisting for drainage purposes are public corporations, and where property is sought to be taken for the
purpose of a ditch it is for a public use, and compensation
must be made before property of an individual can be taken
for public use. Payson v. People, 175 Illinois, 276. The Farm
Drainage Act of 1885 contemplates payment of full damage
done, and if it did not it would be unconstitutional as a taking of private property for the public use without compensation. Chronic v. Pugh, 136 Illinois, 539, 548. The same rules
for ascertaining damages which govern proceedings for the
condemning of private property for public use apply to cases
arising under the drainage statute. Ginn v. Moultrie Drainage
District, 188 Illinois, 305.
Quasi-public corporations are entitled to claim the protection
of the Constitution for their property rights. Monongahela
Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312; Western Union Tel.
Co. v. Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 195 U. S. 540. See also
Illinois Central R. R. v. Bloomington, 76 Illinois, 447; Erie v.

0. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

571

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Erie Canal Co., 59 Pa. St. 174; C. & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Cicero,
154 Illinois, 656; 0. C. & F. R. R. Co. v. Plymouth County,
14 Gray, 155; M. C. R. R. v. Boston &c. R. R., 121 Massachusetts, 124; Commissioners v. Michigan Central Railroad, 90
Michigan, 385.
The location and construction of a drainage ditch across
the right of way of a railroad company is an appropriation
of the company's property which entitles it to compensation
for the value of the interest so taken, and when in the construction of such a ditch it becomes necessary to make an excavation under the tracks of the railroad and for the company to incur expense in supporting the tracks or otherwise
while the ditch is being constructed, such expense should be
taken into account in estimating the damages of the company. L. E. & W. R. Co. v. Commissionersof Hancock County,
63 Ohio St. 23. See also Matter of Tuthill, 163 N. Y. 133,
where the drainage law of New York was held unconstitutional.
Mandamus will not lie to compel the owner of a bridge
across a watercourse to remove the same so that the stream
may be enlarged for drainage purposes. State v. Board of
Commissioners, 157 Indiana, 96.
Section 40 of the Farm and Drainage Act of Illinois is unconstitutional because repugnant to the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466, 524.
It denies defendant equal protection because it seeks out
railroad corporations and requires them alone of all individuals
or private corporations to build bridges over drainage ditches
at their own expense. The Farm Drainage. Act makes full
provision for assessment and payment of damage in all other
cases of individuals or private corporations, and see also section 74 of the act.
The statute in question was passed after the railroad was
constructed and its rights had become vested, and to enforce
such statute would be to impair the obligation of a contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

200 U. S.

and thereby to violate the Federal Constitution. Art. I,
sec. 10, par. 1; Cooley, Const. Lim., 721; Bailey v. Philadelphia
&c. R. R. Co., 4 Harr. 389; Washington Bridge Co. v. State,
18 Connecticut, 53.
The doctrine of dominant and servient estates does not
apply. Petitioners do not seek to use the watercourse in its
natural state, but seek to compel the railway company at its
own expense to widen, deepen, and enlarge the channel of
the same, and by so doing to take and damage the bridge
lawfully erected over said watercourse, and also the land adjacent thereto.
The servient estate is burdened only by the natural flow
of water through the natural channels. Dayton v. Drainage
Commissioners, 128 Illinois, 271; Groff v. Aukenbrandt, 124
Illinois, 51. The dominant owner has no right by artificial
means to precipitate unnatural quantities of water upon the
lower estate. Hicks v. Silliman, 93 Illinois, 255. See also
Union Drainage District v. O'Reilly, 132 Illinois, 631, 634;
Noonan v. Albany, 79 N. Y. 470; McCormick v. Horan, 81
N. Y. 86.
Defendants in error argue that the relief sought in this case
is justified under the police power, but it has never been held
that a railroad company can be compelled under the police
power to remove a bridge lawfully erected over a stream, and
to enlarge, widen, and deepen a natural watercourse across
its right of way, without compensation, merely for the benefit
of a drainage district. Drainage work of the sort undertaken
by the district in question has never been justified as a police
regulation.
The constitutional provision is plain that the cost of the
drainage work shall be paid for by special assessment upon
the property benefited thereby.
If drainage work could be done under the police power,
no assessment of benefits would be necessary. Proceedings
by eminent domain and proceedings under the police power
are entirely distinct and separate in character, the one always

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

573

Argument for Defendants in Error.

implying compensation, the other never involving it. 22 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 916.
No provision for compensation would have been made in
the constitution if it had been intended that drainage work
should be justified under the police power.
Drainage for the purpose of private advantage, such as
improving the quality of the land or rendering it more productive or fit for cultivation, cannot be justified under the
police power. Kinnie v. Bare, 68 Michigan, 625, 628. Lands
cannot be permanently appropriated for drains for the benefit
of other lands under the police power of the State or otherwise
without compensation. Matter of Cheesebrough, 78 N. Y. 232.
The drainage district, being a statutory corporation, has
no common law powers. If there was a common law duty of
the railroad company to restore the stream to its former state
or to such state as not unnecessarily to impair its usefulness,
there is no allegation that it has violated any such duty. To
compel it to do the work directed in the writ of mandamus is to
deprive it of its rights under the Federal Constitution, whether
such writ is sought to be justified under a statute or under the
common law.
Mr. John K. Newhall and Mr. John M. Raymond for defendants in error:
No Federal question was raised in the trial court or in the
Supreme Court of Illinois, which was decided against the title,
right, privilege or immunity set up or claimed by the plaintiff in error.
To give this court jurisdiction of a writ of error to a state
court, it must appear affirmatively not only that a Federal
question was presented for decision by the state court, but
that its decision was necessary to the determination of the
cause, and that it was actually decided adversely to the party
claiming a right under the Federal laws or Constitution, or that
the judgment as rendered could not have been given without
deciding it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

200 U. S.

It is likewise settled law that where the record discloses
that if a question has been raised and decided adversely to a
party claiming the benefit of a provision of the Constitution
or laws of the United States, another question not Federal
has also been raised and decided against such party, and the
decision of the latter question is sufficient, notwithstanding
the Federal question, to sustain the judgment, this court will
not review the judgment. Eustice v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361;
Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S. 554; Hopkins v. McLure, 133 U. S. 380;
Fowler v. Lamson, 164 U. S. 252.
Where the state court based its judgment not on a law
raising a Federal question, but on an independent ground this
court will not take jurisdiction of the case, even though it
might think the decision of the state court an unsound one.
Desaussurev. Gaillard,127 U. S. 216. This court has no jurisdiction of a judgment in a state court, in which a Federal
question was not decided and in which in the view which the
court below took of the case, such a decision was not necessary.
McManus v. O'Sullivan, 91 U. S. 578. It is not enough to
give this court jurisdiction over the judgment of a state court
for a record to show that a Federal question was argued or
presented to that court for decision.
It must appear that the decision of a Federal question was
necessary to the determination of the cause and that it was
actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could not
have been given without deciding it. Brown v. Atwell, 92
U. S. 327.
In the State of Illinois it is the common law duty of a railroad, when it constructs its railway across any stream of water,
to restore such stream or watercourse to its former state, or
to such a state as not unnecessarily to have impaired its usefulness, and keep such crossing in repair. Ligare v. City of
Chicago, 139 Illinois, 46; 0. & M. Ry. Co. v. Thillman, 143
Illinois, 127.
This duty of restoration and provision for keeping such
crossing in repair, and constructing the necessary culverts or

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

575

Argument for Defendants in Error.

sluices for the necessary drainage, is a continuing duty; and
if by the increase of population, establishment of lawful drainage districts, or other causes, the crossing becomes inadequate
to meet the new and altered conditions of the country, it is
then the duty of the railroad to make such alterations as will
meet the present necessities of the public. C. & N. W. Ry.
Co. v. City of Chicago, 140 Illinois, 309; Ohio & Miss. R. R. Co.
v. McClellan, 25 Illinois, 140; C., R. I. & P. R. R. Co. v. Moffit,
75 Illinois, 524; People v. C. & A. R. R. Co., 67 Illinois, 118;
Ill. Cent. Ry. Co. v. Wollenberg, 117 Illinois, 203; Cleveland v.
City Council of Augusta, 43 L. R. A. 638 (Ga.); State v. St.
Paul, M. & N. Ry. Co., 35 Minnesota, 131; A., T. & S. F.
R. R. Co. v. Henry, 45 Pac. Rep. 576 (Kansas); Cook v. Boston
& Lowell R. R. Co., 133 Massachusetts, 185; L. E. & W. R. R.
Co. v. Smith, 61 Fed. Rep. 885; State of Indiana v. L. E. & W.
R. R. Co., 83 Fed. Rep. 284.
An obligation to keep up a crossing imposed as a condition
of a right to cross a highway must be regarded as necessarily
attaching to whatever person or corporation may be the owner
of the road as long as the right is exercised. It is a continuing
condition inseparable from the enjoyment of the franchise.
People v. C. & A. R. R. Co., 67 Illinois, 118.
Where authority is conferred upon a railroad company to
cross any stream of water in the line of its road, coupled with
the duty to restore the stream so crossed to its former state,
or such state as not to unnecessarily impair its usefulness, it
was held to apply to streams not navigable as well as to those
that were navigable, as legislative authority was as necessary
to cross the one as the other. C., R. I. & P. R. R. Co. v. Moffit,
75 Illinois, 524.
When a franchise is granted to construct ways or streets
across a waterway, there is no implied right to destroy the
waterway, but it must be so bridged that its use will not be
unnecessarily impaired. Ligare v. City of Chicago, 139 Illinois,
46.
The legislature of the State of Illinois have enacted a statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

200 U. S,

declaratory of the common law duty of railroads in crossing
waterways, which duty is coupled with its authority to construct bridges or culverts over waterways. Rev. Stat. Ill.,
cl. 5, sec. 19, ch. 114.
Sec. 40 of the Farm Drainage Act of Illinois is declaratory
of the common law, is conclusively a reasonable police regulation, and is valid and constitutional as applied to the case
at bar.
Federal courts follow state decisions as to the rights and
liabilities respecting surface water as a matter of local law.
Walker v. N., M. & S. P. R. R. Co., 165 U. S. 593.
In Illinois it is the common law duty of plaintiff in error in
constructing a bridge or culvert across a natural watercourse
to anticipate that upper riparian proprietors may, by artificial
drainage, increase the flow in such natural watercourse. K. &
S. R. R. Co. v. Horan, 131 Illinois, 288.
A railroad constructing its road over a watercourse must
make suitable bridges, culverts or other provisions for carrying off the water effectually. Angell on Watercourses, 7th ed.,
ยง465b. The duty imposed by statute upon such company
to restore the stream crossed to its former state, or to restore
it so as not to impair its usefulness, exists also in the absence
of statutory requirements. Pierce on Railroads, 203; 0. & H.
R. R. Co. v. Thillman, 143 Illinois, 127.
The petition alleged that the proposed construction of the
drain by defendants in error when completed in accordance
with the plans, would not carry waters, which by force of
gravity would flow into any other natural watercourse in such
drainage district.
The petition alleged that the opening underneath the present
bridge or culvert was of insufficient capacity to allow of the
natural flow of water in the drain which is proposed to be dug.
Clause 5, section 19, of chap. 114, the Railroad Act, and section 40 of chap. 42, Farm Drainage Act, Revised Statutes of
Illinois, are valid constitutional enactments, being simply reasonable police regulations, and apply with equal force to cor-

0. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

577

Argument for Defendants in Error.

porations whose roads are already built, as well as to those
thereafter constructed. I. C. Ry. Co. v. Wollenberg, 117
Illinois, 203; C. & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Chicago, 140 Illinois, 309;
People v. C. & A. R. R. Co., 67 Illinois, 118.
Railroad corporations being the recipients of special privileges from the State, to be exercised in the interest of the
public, and assuming the obligation to transport all persons
and merchandise upon like conditions and at reasonable rates,
theh business is deemed affected with a public use, and to the
extent of that use is subject to legislative regulations.
Requiring that the burden of a service deemed essential to
the public, in consequence of the existence of the railroad
corporations, and the exercise of privileges obtained at their
request, should be borne by the corporations in relation to
whom the service is rendered, and to whom it is useful, is
neither denying to them the equal protection of the laws nor
making any unjust discrimination against them, all railroad
corporations in the State being treated alike in this respect.
Charlotte, Columbia & Augusta R. R. Co. v. Gibbes, 142 U. S.
386. Railroads are public highways, and in their relations as
such to the public are subject to legislative supervision and
the police power of the State. C. & N. W. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, supra.
The inhibition of the Constitution of the United States upon
the impairment of the obligation of contracts, or the deprivation of property without due process or of the equal protection of the laws by the States, are not violated by the legitimate
exercise of legislative power in securing the public safety,
health and morals.
There is no unjust discrimination and no denial of the equal
protection of the laws in regulations applicable to all railroad
corporations alike; nor is there necessarily such denial, nor an
infringement of the obligations of contracts in the imposition
upon them in particular instances of the entire expense of the
performance of acts required in the public interest.
The adjudication of the highest court of a State that a law
VOL. CC-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

200 U. S.

enacted in the exercise of the police power of the State, to
protect the public from danger is valid, will not be reversed
by this court, on the ground of an infraction of the Constitution of the United States. N. Y. & N. E. R. R. Co. v. Town
of Bristol, 151 U. S 556.
It may be assumed that it is a power coextensive with selfprotection, and is not inaptly termed "the law of overruling
necessity." C. & N. W. R. R. Co. v. City of Chicago, supra;
Lake View v. Rose Hill Cemetery Co., 70 Illinois, 191.
It is well settled that neither a natural person nor a corporation can claim damages on account of being compelled to render
obedience to a police regulation, destined to secure the common welfare. C. & A. R. R. Co. v. J. L. & R. R. Co.,. 105
Illinois, 388.
In granting a charter to a private corporation the State does
not part with its powers to enact proper police regulations
operating upon such corporations, the same as upon natural
persons; and these bodies accept their charters upon the implied condition that they are to exercise their rights subject
to the power of the State to regulate their action as it may
individuals. Ohio & Miss. R. R. Co. v. McClellan, 25 Illinois,
140.
It is in the power of the State to require local improvements
to be made which are essential to the health and prosperity of
any community within its borders. To this end it may provide for the construction of canals for draining marshy and
malarious districts and of levees to prevent inundations.
Hagarv. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701.
Since the amendment to the Illinois constitution adopted
in 1878, the Illinois court has held that corporations formed
for drainage purposes are public corporations. Heffner v.
Cass & Morgan Counties, 193 Illinois, 439.
The right of drainage through a natural watercourse is the
natural easement appurtenant to the land of every individual
through whose lands such natural watercourse runs, and every
owner of land along such watercourse is obliged to take notice

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COM'RS.
200 U. S.

579

Opinion of the Court.

of the natural easement possessed by other owners along the
same watercourse. C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. The People ex rel.
&c., 212 Illinois, 103.
A natural watercourse is not required to be used only in its
natural state, but may be improved either by being deepened
or widened by artificial means or by the construction along its
course of a channel or drain for the purpose of more effectually
carrying off the surface water from the land. The construction of such improvement does not create a substantively new
watercourse, nor amount to an abandonment of the natural
watercourse. Lambert v. Allcorn, 144 Illinois, 313.
The right to drain upon and over lower or servient lands
without making compensation for such privilege is the same
whether the dominant land is the farm of an individual owner
or is a public highway.
The public represented by defendants in error, have the
right to have the surface water, falling or coming naturally
upon the district in question, to pass off the same through the
natural channel, and over the right of way of plaintiff in error,
and have the right to construct ditches or drains for the purpose of carrying such surface water into the natural channel,
even though the water thus carried across the right of way is
thereby increased. Grahzam v. Keene, 143 Illinois, 425; K. &
S. R. R. Co. v. Horan, 131 Illinois, 288. This is one of the
inevitable results experienced in the drainage and improvement of land, which the development of the country cannot
always permit to remain in a state of nature. Ribordy v.
Murray, 177 Illinois, 134.
after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAN,

1. The first question is one of the authority of this court to
review the judgment below. As we have seen, the railway
company insisted in the court of original jurisdiction that the
statute under which the Drainage Commissioners proceeded

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

could not be applied in this case without takdng its property
for public use without compensation, and therefore depriving
it of property without due process of law, or without denying
to it the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Comstitution of the United States. The judgment of the trial court
was adverse to that view. In the Supreme Court of the State
the railway company, by its assignments of error, preserved its
objection based on constitutional grounds. That court did
not, in words, refer to the Constitution of the United States,
and its opinion concluded: "Entertaining the views above
expressed, and founding our conclusion upon the rights and
duties of the parties as found in the common law, we deem it
unnecessary t6 pass upon the constitutionality of section 403of the Farm Drainage Act."
The contention is that as the state court based its judgment
on the common law duty of the railway company, and not expressly on any Federal ground, it cannot be said that there
was any denial of the Federal right claimed by the company;
consequently, it is argued, this court is without jurisdiction
to reexamine the final judgment. Rev. Stat. ยง709.
Undoubtedly, the general rule is that where the judgment
of the state court rests upon an independent, separate ground
of local or general law, broad enough or sufficient in itself to
cover the essential issues and control the rights of the parties,
however the Federal question raised on the record might be
determined, this court will affirm or dismiss, as the one course
or the other may be appropriate, without considering that question. But it is equally well settled that the failure of the state
court to pass on the Federal right or immunity specially set
up, of record, is not conclusive, but this court will decide the
Federal question if the necessary effect of the judgment is to
deny a Federal right or immunity specially set up or claimed,
and which, if recognized and enforced, would require a judgment different from one resting upon some ground of local or
general law. And such plainly was the effect of the judgment
in this case. If, as the railway company contended, the pro-

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMMRS.
200 U. S.

581

Opinion of the Court.

posed action of the Drainage Commissioners would deprive it
of property without due process of law and also deny to it the
equal protection of the laws, then a judgment should have been
rendered for the company. And that result could not be
avoided merely by silence on the Federal question and by placing the judgment on some principle of the common law. The
constitutional grounds relied on must, if sustained, displace or
supersede any principle of general or local law which, but for
such grounds, might be sufficient for the complete determination of the rights of the parties. The claim of a Federal right
or immunity specially set up from the outset went to the very
root of the case and dominated every part of it. If that claim
be valid, then the law is for the railway company; for, the
supreme law of the land must always control. Therefore a
failure to recognize such Federal right or immunity, and the
decision of the case on some ground of general or local law,
necessarily has the same effect as if the claim of Federal right
or immunity had been expressly denied. That claim having,
then, been distinctly set up by the company, and being broad
enough to cover the entire case, it may not be ignored, and
this court cannot refuse to determine whether the alleged
Federal right exists and is protected by the Constitution of the
United States. If the case had been decided in favor of the
railway company on some ground of local or general law, then
the claim of a Federal right would have become immaterial,
and we could not have reexamined the judgment. But the
decision was otherwise and was, in law, a denial of the claim
of a Federal right.
For these reasons we are of opinion that this court has jurisdiction to reexamine the final judgment of the state court so
far as it involved the Federal right or immunity specially set
up by the railway company.
2. The concrete case arising upon the petition and the demurrer is this: A public corporation, charged by law with the
duty of causing a large body of lands, principally swamp and
slough lands, to be drained and made capable of cultivation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

has, under direct legislative authority, adopted a reasonable
and suitable plan to accomplish that object. That plan requires the enlarging and deepening of the channel of a natural
watercourse running through the District, which is the only
natural outlet or way of drainage of the lands of the Districtthe best and only practicable mode by which the lands can be
made tillable. But that plan cannot be carried out unless
the timbers and stones in the creek-placed there by the railway company when it constructed the foundation for its present
bridge-are removed. The timber and stones referred to cannot, however, be removed without destroying the foundations
of the present bridge and rendering it necessary (if the railway
company continues to operate its road, which we assume it
intends to do) to construct another bridge with an opening
underneath wide enough to permit a channel sufficient to
carry off the water of the creek as increased in volume under
the drainage system adopted by the Commissioners.
The contention of the railway company is that, as its present
bridge was lawfully constructed, under its general corporate
power to build, construct, operate and maintain a railroad, in
the county and township aforesaid, and as the depth and width
of the channel under it were sufficient, at the time, to carry off
the water of the creek as it then flowed, and now flows-the
foundation of the bridge cannot be removed and its use of the
bridge disturbed, unless compensation be first made or secured
to it in such amount as will be sufficient to meet the expense of
removing the timbers and stones from the creek and of constructing a new bridge of such length and with such opening
under it as the plan of the Commissioners requires. The company insists that to require it to meet these expenses out of its
own funds will be, within the meaning of the Constitution, a
taking of its property for public use without compensation,
and, therefore, without due process of law, as well as a denial
to it of the equal protection of the laws.
The importance of these questions will justify a reference
to some of the adjudged cases; referring first to those recog-

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

nizing the distinction between an incidental injury to rights
of private property resulting from the exercise of governmental
powers, lawfully and reasonably exerted for the public good,
and the taking, within the meaning of the Constitution, of
private property for public use.
In TransportationCo. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635, 642, which
involved a claim for damages directly resulting from the construction by the city of Chicago of a tunnel under Chicago
River, whereby for a very long time the plaintiff was prevented
from using its dock and other property for purposes of its
business; in Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 669, which
related in part, to the lawful prohibition by the State of the
use of private property in a particular way, whereby its value
was materially diminished, if not practically destroyed; in
N. Y. & N. E. Railroad Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, 567, 571,
which involved the question whether a railroad company could
be required, at its sole expense, to remove a grade crossing
which it had lawfully established and used and to establish
another crossing at a different place; in Chicago, Burlington
& Quincy R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 252, in which
one of the questions was whether it was a condition of the
exercise by the State of its authority to regulate the use of
property, owned by individuals or corporations, that the owner
should be indemnified for the damage or injury resulting from
the exercise of such authority for legitimate public purposes;
in Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S. 269, 271, 276, in which the
owner of a farm on an island in the Ohio River, at which there
was a landing, sought to recover compensation for the injury
done to the farm by reason of the construction by the United
States of a dike for the purpose of concentrating the waterflow in the main channel of the river; and in Scranton v.
Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141, 164, which involved the question
whether the United States was required to compensate an
owner of land fronting on a public navigable river, when his
access from the shore to the navigable part of such river was
permanently obstructed by a pier erected in the river under

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

the authority of Congress for the purpose of improving navigation;--in each of those cases, this court recognized the
principle that injury may often come to private property as
the result of legitimate governmental action, reasonably taken
for the public good and for no other purpose, and yet there will
be no taking of such property within the meaning of the constitutional guarantee against the deprivation of property without due process of law, or against the taking of private property
for public use without compensation. To this class belongs
the recent, and as we think, decisive case of New Orleans Gas
Light Co. v. DrainageCommission, 197 U. S. 453, to be hereafter adverted to in another connection. In this class may
also be placed Mills v. United States, 46 Fed. Rep. 738. That
was the case of an improvement by the United States of the
navigation of Savannah River, which resulted in so raising
the water in that river as to make it impossible to prevent the
flooding of adjacent rice fields that were ordinarily and naturally drained into the river, and rendering it necessary that
expense be incurred in order to provide new drainage from
those fields into a back river, where the water levels were
suitable. In commenting upon that case, this court said, in
United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445: "Obviously there was
no taking of the plaintiff's lands, but simply an injury which
could be remedied at an expense, as alleged, of $10,000, and
the action was one to recover the amount of this consequential
injury. The court rightfully held that it could not be sustained." See also Bedford v. United States, 192 U. S. 217,
and Manigault v. Springs, 199 U..S. 473.
We refer also, as having direct application here, to some of
the cases, familiar to the profession, that recognize the possession by each State of the power, never surrendered to the
Government of the Union, of guarding and promoting the
public interests by reasonable police regulations that do not
violate the constitution of the State or the Constitution of the
United States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Railroad Co.
v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 472; Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S.

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

585

Opinion of the Court.

501, 503; Morgan v. Lowisiana, 118 U. S. 455, 464; Hennington v. Georgia, 163 U. S. 299, 308, 309; N. Y., N. H. & H.
Railroad Co. v. New York, 165 U.. S. 628, 631.
We assume that the drainage statute in question is entirely
consistent with the constitution of Illinois. It is so regarded
by the Supreme Court of the State, and that is all-sufficient
in this case. We assume, also, without discussion-as from
the decisions of the state court we may properly assumethat the drainage of this large body of lands so as to make them
fit for human habitation and cultivation, is a public purpose,
to accomplish which the State may. by appropriate agencies
exert the general powers it possesses for the common good.
By the removal of water from large bodies of land, the state
court has said, and by "the subjection of such lands to cultivation they are made to bear their proper proportionate burden
to the support of the inhabitants and commerce of the State.
Their value is increased, and thereby their contribution in
taxes to the state and local governments is increased." C., B.
& Q. Ry. Co. v. The People, 212 Illinois, 103, 119. It is conceded that this public purpose cannot be certainly and effectively attained except through the plan adopted by the Drainage
Commissioners. Further, the regulations against which the
railway company invokes the Constitution have a real, direct,
and obvious relation to the public objects sought to be accomplished by them; in no sense are they arbitrary or unreasonable. Indeed, it is admitted that the plan of the Commissioners is appropriate and the best that can be devised for
draining the lands in question. But the railway company, in
effect, if not in words, insists that the rights which it asserts in
this case are superior and paramount to any that the public has
to use the watercourse in question for the purpose of draining
the lands in its vicinity, although such watercourse was in existence, for the benefit of the public, long before the railway
company constructed its bridge. This contention cannot, however, be sustained, except upon the theory that the acquisition
by the railway company of a right of way through the lands in

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

question, and the construction on that right of way of a bridge
across Rob Roy Creek at the point in question, carried with it
a surrender by the State of its power, by appropriate agencies,
to provide for such use of that natural watercourse as might
subsequently become necessary or proper for the public interests. If the State could part with such a power, held in trust
for the public-which is by no means admitted-it has not done
so in any statute either by express words or by necessary implication. When the railway company laid the foundations of
its bridge in Rob Roy Creek it did so subject to the rights of the
public in the use of that'watercourse, and also subject to the
possibility that new circumstances and future public necessities
might, in the judgment of the State, reasonably require a material change in the methods used in crossing the creek with
cars. It may be-and we take it to be true-that the opening
under the bridge as originally constructed was sufficient to pass
all the water then or now flowing through the creek. But the
duty of the company, implied in law, was to maintain an opening under the bridge that would be adequate and effectual for
such an increase in the volume of water as night result from
lawful, reasonable regulations established by appropriate publie authority from time to time for the drainage of lands on
either side of the creek. Angell on Watercourses, 6th ed. 640,

ยง465b.
The Supreme Court of Illinois said in this case: "The right
of drainage through a natural watercourse or a natural waterway is a natural easement appurtenant to the land of every
individual through whose land such natural watercourse runs,
and every owner of land along such watercourse is obliged to
take notice of the natural easement possessed by other owners
along the same watercourse." Again, in the same case:
"Where lands are valuable for cultivation, and the country, as
this, depends so much upon agriculture, the public welfare demands that the lands shall be drained, and in the absence of
any constitutional provision in relation to such laws they have
been sustained, upon high authority, as the exercise of the

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

587

Opinion of the Court.

police power." Further: "A natural watercourse being a natural
easement, is placed upon the same ground, in many respects
as to the public right, as is a public highway. At the common
law, if a railroad or another highway crosses a natural watercourse or a public highway, such highway or railroad must be
so constructed across the existing highway or waterway, and
so maintained, that said highway or waterway, as the case may
be, shall not only subserve the demands of the public as they
exist at the time of crossing the same, but for all future time.
The great weight of authority is, that where there is
.
a natural waterway, or where a highway already exists and
is crossed by a railroad company under its general license to
build a railroad, and without any specific grant by the legislative authority to obstruct the highway or waterway, the railroad company is bound to make and keep its crossing, at its
own expense, in such condition as shall meet all the reasonable
requirements of the public as the changed conditions and increased use may demand." The court said that the implied
authority of the company to build its present bridge was
coupled with its common law duty "to build its bridge over the
natural watercourse, with a view of the future as well as the
present contingencies and requirements of such watercourse,
and with the further implied provision that there remained in
the State, whenever the public welfare required it, the right to
regulate its use." Still further: "The subject [the draining of
lands] was deemed of such importance that the people, by section 31 of Article IV of the Constitution of 1870, conferred upon
the General Assembly plenary powers in making provision for
drainage for agricultural and sanitary purposes, and pursuant
to that power the General Assembly passed the act under which
the appellees are proceeding, declaring that the organization
should be for agricultural and sanitary purposes. The Drainage Districts organized, as are the appellees, under that law are
invested with the right of eminent domain and the power of
taxation, upon the theory that they are public utilities and are
held to be quasi public corporations. In their organic character

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

they do not represent merely the individual property owners
or themselves, but they represent the State in carrying out its
policy, as found in the common law and declared by its constitution and statutes. It has been so often said that it need only
be adverted to here, that corporations such as appellant do not
hold their property and exercise their franchises strictly in a
private right, but that from the nature of their business and
their relation to society they are public corporations in a sense
and are subject to public control and regulation, though with
their grant of power to traverse the State with their lines of
railroad it cannot be said that their right of private property
attaches to every highway and watercourse over which their
roads may be constructed. To so hold would render such enterprises, which are designed for the benefit of the State, obstacles to its progress and a menace to its general welfare ...
Of course, in the exercise of the right of the public interest, as
against such corporations, the demand must be reasonable and
must clearly appear to be for the public welfare. In this case
it is not questioned that the improvement of Rob Roy Creek, as
proposed, is necessary for the proper drainage of the lands comprising the Drainage District. The petition alleges that such
enlargement is necessary and that the same cannot be carried
on with the obstructions placed in the bed of said creek by appellant. This the appellant does not deny." C. B. & Q. Ry.
Co. v. The People, 212 Illinois, 109, 110, 111, 114, 118.
In Ohio & Miss. R. R.Co. v. McClelland,25 Illinois, 140, 144,
it was said-indeed, all the cases hold-that "the power to enact police regulations operates upon all alike;" that that
"power is incident to and part of government itself, and need
not be expressly reserved, when it grants rights or property to
individuals or corporate bodies, as they take subservient to that
right."
A case quite in point is that of Kankakee & Seneca R. R. Co.
v. Horan, 131 Illinois, 288. That was an action against a railroad company to recover for damage from the backing of water
upon plaintiff's land by reason of an insufficient culvert con-

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U.S.

589

Opinion of the Court.

structed by it for the passage of water from a certain natural
watercourse. The contention of the company was that the culvert when constructed was sufficient for the flow of water at the
time, and that it was not bound to make such provision as was
necessary for an increase of water in the slough subsequently
arising from the drainage into it of the lands along its course.
Upon this point the Supreme Court of Illinois said: "We do not
subscribe to this doctrine. The Parker slough was a watercourse, and it was the legal right of any one along its line for
miles above the railroad, where the water naturally shed toward
the slough, to drain into it, and no one below, owning land
along the slough, would have any legal remedy against such
person so draining the water into the slough above him, for
any damage done to his inheritance by means of an increased
flow of water caused thereby. In other words, the slough was
a legal watercourse for the drainage of all the land the natural
tendency of which was to cast its surplus water, caused by the
falling of rain and snow into it; and this, whether the flow was
increased by artificial means or not. It would seem legitimately to follow that the railroad company, in providing a passageway for the slough, was bound to anticipate and provide
for any such legal increase of the waterflow. If it did not, it
was doing a wrong and legal injury to any one situated like the
appellee, who received injury in consequence of a failure on its
part to do its duty." See also the following Illinois cases:
People v. Chicago & Alton R. B., 67 Illinois, 118; Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific R. R. Co. v. Moffit, 75 Illinois, 524; Chicago &
Northwestern Ry. Co. v. City of Chicago, 140 Illinois, 309; Ohio
& Miss. Ry. Co. v. Thillman, 143 Illinois, 127; Frazer v. City
of Chicago, 186 Illinois, 480, 486.
Many cases in other courts are to the same general effect.
They negative the suggestion of the railway company that the
adequacy of its bridge and the opening under it for passing the
water of the creek at the time the bridge was constructed determines its obligations to the public at all subsequent periods.
In Cooke v. Boston & Lowell R. R., 133 Massachusetts, 185, 188,

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

it appeared that a railroad company had statutory authority
to cross a certain highway with its road. The statute provided
that if the railroad crossed any highway it should be so constructed as not to impede or obstruct the safe and convenient
use of the highway. And one of the contentions of the company was that the statute limited its duty and obligation to
provide for the wants of travelers at the time it exercised the
privilege granted to it. The court said: "The Legislature intended to provide against any obstruction of the safe and convenient use of the highway, for all time; and if, by the increase
of population in the neighborhood, or by an increasing use of
the highway, the crossing which at the outset was adequate is
no longer so, it is the duty of the railroad corporation to make
such alteration as will meet the present needs of the public who
have occasion to use the highway." In Lake Erie & Western
R. R. Co. v. Cluggish, 143 Indiana, 347, the court said (quoting
from Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co. v. Smith, 61 Fed. Rep. 885):
"The duty of a railroad to restore a stream or highway which
is crossed by the line of its rtAd is a continuing duty; and if, by
the increase of population or other causes, the crossing becomes
inadequate to meet the new and altered conditions of the country, it is the duty of the railroad to make such alterations as
will meet the present needs of the public." So, in State of Indiana v. Lake Erie & Western R. R. Co., 83 Fed. Rep. 284, 287,
which was the case of an overhead crossing lawfully constructed
on one of the streets of a city, the court said: "If, by the growth
of population or otherwise, the crossing has become inadequate
to meet the present needs of the public, it is the duty of the railroad company to remedy the defect by restoring the crossing
so that it will not unnecessarily impair the usefulness of the
highway."
The cases to which we have referred are in accord with the
declarations of this court in the recent case of New OrleansGas
Light Co. v. Drainage Commission, 197 U. S. 453. That case
would seem to be decisive of the question before us. It there
appeared that a gas company had acquired an exclusive right

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

591

Opinion oi the Court.

to supply gas to the city of Yew Orleans and its inhabitants
through pipes and mains laid in the streets. Inthe exercise of
that rigt it had laid its pipes in the streets. Subsequently a
Drainage Commission, proceeding under statutory authority,
devised a system of drainage for the city, and in the execution
of its plans it became necessary to change the location in some
places of the mains and pipes laid by the gas company. The
contention of that company was that it could not be required,
at its own cost, to shift its pipes and mains so as to accommodate
the drainage system; that to require it to do so would be a taking of its property for public use without compensation, in violation of the Constitution of the United States. This court said:
"The gas company did not acquire any specific location in the
streets; it was content with the general right to ufe them, and
when it located its pipes it was at the risk that they might be,
at some future time, disturbed, when the State might require,
for a necessary public use, that changes in location be made.
. . . There is nothing in the grant to the gas company,
even if it could legally be done, undertaking to limit the right
of the State to establish a system of drainage in the streets.
We think whatever right the gas company acquired was subject, in so far as the location of its pipes was concerned, to such
further regulations as might be required in the interest of the
public health and welfare. These views are amply sustained
by the authorities. National Water Works Co. v. City of Kansas, 28 Fed. Rep. 921, in which the opinion was delivered by
Mr. Justice Brewer, then Circuit Judge; Gas Light & Coke Co.
v. Columbus, 50 Ohio St. 65; Jamaica Pond Aqueduct Co. v.
Brookline, 121 Massachusetts, 5; In re Deering, 93 N. Y. 361;
Chicago, Burlington & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S.226,
254. In the latter case it was held that uncompensated obedience to a regulation enacted for the public safety under the
police power of the State was not taking property without due
compensation. In our view, that is all there is to this case.
The gas company, by its grant from the city, acqjuired no exclusive right to the location of its pipes in the streets, as chosen

OCTOBER TER.M, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

by it, under a general grant of authority to use the streets.
The city made no contract that the gas company should not
be disturbed in the location chosen. In the exercise of the police power of the State, for a purpose highly necessary in the
promotion of the public health, it has become necessary to
change the location of the pipes of the gas company so as to
accommodate them to the new public work. In complying
with this requirement at its own expense none of the property
of the gas company has been taken, and the injury sustained
is damnum absque iniuria."
The learned counsel for the railway company seem to think
that the adjudications relating to the police power of the State
to protect the public health, the public morals and the public
safety are not applicable, in principle, to cases where the police
power is exerted for the general well-being of the community
apart from any question of the public health, the public morals
or the public safety. Hence, he presses the thought that the
petition in this case does not, in words, suggest that the drainage in question has anything to do with the health of the Drainage District, but only avers that the system of drainage adopted
by the Commissioners will reclaim the lands of the District and
make them tillable or fit for cultivation. We cannot assent to
the view expressed by counsel. We hold that the police power
of a State embraces regulations designed to promote the public
convenience or the general prosperity, as well as regulations
designed to promote the public health, the public morals or the
public safety. Lake Shore & Mich. South. Ry. v. Ohio, 173
U. S. 285, 292; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, 729; Pound
v. Turck, 95 U.S. 459, 464; Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 470.
And the validity of a police regulation, whether established directly by the State or by some public body acting under its
sanction, must depend upon tke circumstances of each case
and the character of the regulatiou, whether arbitrary or reasonable and whether really designed to accomplish a legitimate
public purpose. Private property cannot be taken without
compensation for public use under a police regulation relating

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COM11M'RS.
200 U. S.

593

Opinion of the Court.

strictly to the public health, the public morals or the public
safety, any more than under a police regulation having no relation to such matters, but only to the general welfare. The
'foundations upon which the power rests afe in every case the
same. This power, as said in Village of Carthagev. Frederick,
122 N. Y. 268, has always been exercised by municipal corporations, "by making regulations to preserve order, to promote
freedom of communication and to facilitate the transaction of
business in crowded c6mmunities. Compensation has never
been a condition of its exercise, even when attended with inconvenience or peculiar loss, as each member of a community is
presumed to be benefited by that which promotes the general
welfare." The constitutional requirement of clue process of
law, which embraces compensation for private property taken
for public use, applies in every case of the exertion of governmental power. If in the execution of any power, no matter
what it is, the Government, Federal or state, finds it necessary
to take private property for public use, it must obey the constitutional injunction to make or secure just compensation to
the owner. Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Railway, 135
U. S. 641, 659; Sweetv. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380, 399, 402; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; United
States v. Lynoh, 188 U. S. 445. If the means employed have
no real, substantial relation to public objects which government
may legally accomplish; if they are arbitrary and unreasonable,
beyond the necessities of the case, the judiciary will disregard
mere forms and interfere for the protection of rights injuriously
affected by such illegal action. The authority of the courts to
interfere in such cases is beyond all doubt. Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 320. Upon the general subject there is no
real conflict among the adjudged cases. Whatever conflict
there is arises upon the question whether there has been or will
be in the particular case, within the true meaning of the Constitution, a "taking" of private property for public use. If the
injury complained of is only incidental to the legitimate exercise of governmental powers for the public good, then there is
voL. cc-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

no taking of property for the public use, and a right to compensation, on account of such injury, does not attach under the
Constitution. Such is the present case. There are, unquestionably, limitations upon the exercise of the police power
which cannot, under any circumstances, be ignored. But the
clause prohibiting the taking of private property without compensation "is not intended as a limitation of the exercise of
those police powers which are necessary to the tranquility of
every well-ordered community, nor of that general power over
private property which is necessary for the orderly existence of
all governments. It has always been held that the legislature
may make police regulations, although they may interfere with
the full enjoyment of private property and though no compensation is given." Sedgwick's Stat. & Const. Law, 434.
It remains to deal with a particular aspect of the case. The
opening under the present bridge, we assume from the record,
was sufficient, when the bridge was constructed, to pass all the
water naturally flowing in the creek from lands in that locality.
It is sufficient if the channel of the river be left as it is now.
The Commissioners demand, however, as they may rightfully
do in the public interest, a larger, deeper and wider channel in
order to accommodate the increased volume of water in the
creek that will come from the proposed plan of the Commissioners. But that is a matter which concerns the public, not the
railway company. The duty of the company will end when it
removes the obstructions which it has placed in the way of enlarging, deepening and widening of the channel. It follows,
upon principles of justice, that while the expense attendant
upon the removal of the present bridge and culvert and the
timbers and stones placed by the company in the creek, as well
as the expense of the erection of any new bridge which the company may elect to construct in order to conform to the plan of
the Commissioners, should be borne by the railway company,
the *expense attendant merely upon the removal of soil in order
to enlarge, deepen and widen the channel must be borne by the
District. The expense to be borne by the District and the rail-

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMIL1'RS.
200 U. S.

595

Hoxams, WHITE and McKmNA, JJ., concurring.

way company, respectively, can be ascertained by the state
court in some appropriate way, and such orders made as will
be necessary to facilitate the execution of the plan of the Commissioners.
Without further discussion we hold it to be the duty of the
railway company, at its own expense, to remove from the creek
the present bridge, culvert, timbers and stones placed there by
it, and also (unless it abandons or surrenders its right to cross
the creek at or in the vicinity of the present crossing) to erect
at its own expense and maintain a new bridge for crossing that
will conform to the regulations established by the Drainage
Commissioners, under the authority of the State; and such a
requirement if enforced will not amount to a taking of private
property for public use within the meaning of the Constitution,
nor to a denial of the equal protection of the laws.
Leaving it to the state court to give effect to these views by
appropriate orders and subject to the above qualifications, the
decree of the state court is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMEs,

with whom agreed MR. JUSTICE

WHiTE

and M . JUSTICE MCKENNA, concurring.
I concur in the main with the judgment of the court. I
agree that the public authority has a right to widen or deepen
a channel if it sees fit, and that any cost that the railroad is put
to in rebuilding a bridge the railroad must bear. But the public must pay for the widening or deepening, and I think that it
does not matter whether what it has to remove is the original
earth or some other substance lawfully put in the place of the
original earth. Very likely in this case the distinction is of
little importance, but it may be hereafter. I suppose it to "be
plain, as my brother Brewer says, that, if an expense is thrown
upon the railroad unlawfully, its property is taken for public
use without due compensation. Woodward v. Central Vermont
Railway Co., 180 Massachusetts, 599.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREwpm, J., dissenting.

200 U. S.

I am authorized to say that my brothers WmTF and
MWILNNA

agree with my view.

MR. JusTxo

BR~wu,

dissenting.

The question in this case is a narrow one, yet of profound importance, and, involving, as in my judgment it does, a grievous
wrong to owners of private property, I am constrained to dissent. Conceding the regularity of the proceedings and the
power of the State to drain the lands in the Drainage District,
and if necessary therefor to compel the building of a new and
enlarged bridge over Rob Roy Creek, I dissent from the conclusion that the State may cast the entire cost of such rebuilding upon the railroad company.
It appears from the petition which was demurred to, and
whose allegations of fact must therefore be taken as true, that
the Drainage District consists of about 2,000 acres on both sides
of Rob Roy Creek; that a majority of the lands of aid Drainage
District are swamp or slough lands, and under natural conditions not subject to cultivation, but by drainage will all be
greatly improved and made good tillable lands. The railroad
company has for forty years maintained a bridge or culvert
over Rob Roy Creek which has answered and does answer
all its purposes and necessities. The cost of the ditches and
drains in the Drainage District in accordance with the plans
adopted by the Commissioners is estimated at $20,000. The
railroad bridge or culvert across the creek does not exceed in
value $8,000, and a new bridge or culvert can be constructed
at a cost of not exceeding $13,000. The drainage act provides
for an appraisement of the damages done to any tract by the
construction, of the proposed work, and a judgment in favor of
the owner against the Commissioners of the District for that
amount. It also provides for an assessment of the benefits to
the different tracts, upon the basis of which assessments taxes
are to be levied to pay for the construction and maintenance
of the drainage system. In other words, any damage done to

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

597

BREwER, J., dissenting.

any particular tract by the construction of the drainage system
is to be paid to the owner of that tract, if a private individual, and the tracts which are benefited are to be charged with
the cost in proportion to the amount of benefit received. Section 40- of the drainage act then provides:
"The Commissioners shall have the power and are required
to make all necessary bridges and culverts along or across any
public highway or railroad which may be deemed necessary for
the use or protection of the work, and the cost of the same shall
be paid out of the road and bridge tax, or by the railroadcompany, 6s the case may be: Provided, however, notice shall first
be given to the road or railroad authorities to build or construct such bridge or culvert, and they shall have thirty days
in which to build or construct the same; such bridges or culverts
shall, in all cases, be constructed so as not to interfere with the
free flow of water through the drains of the district. Should
any railroad company refuse or neglect to build or construct
any bridge or culvert as herein required, the Commissioners
constructing the same may recover the cost and expenses therefor in a suit against said company before any justice of the
peace or any court having jurisdiction, and reasonable attorney's fees may be recovered as part of the cost. The proper
authorities of any public road or railroad shall have the right
of appeal the same as provided for individual land owners."
According to this, if any bridge or culvert on any public highway is needed in order to perfect the drainage system, the cost
of it is to be paid out of the public funds; but if a bridge or
culvert is required on a railroad, the cost of it must be paid by
the railroad company. And this is arbitrary, without any appraisement of benefits or damages.
Now, the property of a railroad company is private property.
It cannot be taken for public uses without just compensation.
True, it is used by the owners in performing the quasi public
work of transportation, but it is not given up to public uses
generally. It is not devoted to education or the improvement
of farm lands, or, indeed, any other use than that of transpor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
BREWER, J., dissenting.

200 U. S.

tation. If taken therefrom and devoted to other public uses
it is the taking of private property for public uses. That this
can be done may be conceded, but only upon just compensation.
When private property is taken for public uses compensation
must be paid. That is the mandate of the Federal Constitution
and of that of nearly every State in the Union. Independently
of such mandate, compensation would be required. In 2 Kent,
p. 339 (12th. ed.), it is said:
"A provision for compensation is a necessary attendant on
the due and constitutional exercise of the power of the lawgiver
to deprive an individual of his property without his consent;
and this principle in American constitutional jurisprudence is
founded in natural equity, and is laid down by jurists as an
acknowledged principle of universal law." See also cases cited
in the note; especially Gardner v. Village of Newburgh, 2 Johns.
Ch. 162, 166.
In Sinnickson v. Johnsons, 17 N. J. L. (2 Harr.) 129, 145,
referred to approvingly by this court in Pumpelly v. Green Bay
Company, 13 Wall. 166, 178, and Monongahela NavigationCompany v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 324, it was said:
"This power to take private property reaches back of all constitutional provisions; and it seems to have been considered a
settled principle of universal law that the right to compensation
is an incident to the exercise of that power: that the one is so
inseparably connected with the other, that they may be said
to exist not as separate and distinct principles, but as parts of
one and the same principle."
If this be true when the taking is for that which is solely a
public use, how much more true is it when the taking is largely
for the benefit of private individuals, and at best only incidentally for the benefit of the public? Now the sole purpose of
this proceeding, as admitted by the demurrer, was the transformation of these swamp and untillable lands into good tillable
lands; in other words, to that extent, increasing the value of
the farms in the hands of their private owners. While the stat-

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMM'RS.
200 U. S.

599

BREWER, J., dissenting.

ute under which these proceedings were had contemplates drainage for agricultural and sanitary purposes, there is nothing in
this record to show that any sanitary result was contemplated,
and the only object disclosed is the direct beneficial result to
the owners of these swamp lands. There is not the slightest
intimation that the health, morals, or safety of the community
will be promoted, or is intended to be promoted, by the drainage. I quote the exact language of the petition:
"And the petitioners aver that the aforesaid location of the
ditch or drain along the said Rob Roy Creek was for the purpose
of enlarging the channel or watercourse of the aforesaid Rob
Roy Creek, and thereby enabling the land in said drainage district to be better drained and render the soil in said district
more tillable.
"And your petitioners aver that a majority of the lands of
said Drainage District are what is known as swamp or slough
land, and under the present condition are not subject to cultivation, but by means of the proposed deepening and enlarging
of said Rob Roy Creek, as herein described, and as a result of
the removal of said timbers and stones in said Rob Roy Creek,
at the place aforesaid, and of the enlargement of and deepening
of said Rob Roy Creek, all of the lands in said Drainage District
will be greatly improved, and made good, tillable land subject
to cultivation."
If it be a principle of natural justice that private property
shall not be taken for public purposes without just compensation, is it not equally a principle of natural justice that no man
shall be compelled to pay out money for the benefit of the public
without any reciprocal compensation? Wihat difference in
equity does it make whether a piece of land is taken for public
uses or so many dollars for like purposes? Cary Library v.
Bliss, 151 Massachusetts, 364, 378, 379; Woodward v. Central
Vermont Railway Company, 180 Massachusetts, 599, 603.
But it is said that this is done under the police power of the
State, and that that can be exercised without any provision for

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Biuw,

J., dissenting.

200 U. S.

compensation. It seems to me that the police power has become the refuge of every grievous wrong upon private property.
Whenever any unjust burden is cast upon the owner of private
property which cannot be supported under the power of eminent domain or that of taxation, it is referred to the police
power. But no exercise of the police power can disregard the
constitutional guarantees in respect to the taking of private
property, due process and equal protection, nor should it override the demands of natural justice. The question in the case
is not how far the State may go in compelling a railroad company to expend money in increasing its facilities for transportation, but how far it can go in charging upon the company the
cost of improving farms along the line of its road.
Again, it will be perceived that by the section quoted, if, in
consequence of the drainage, a bridge or culvert is required on
any public highway its cost is paid out of the public funds, but
whenever a bridge or culvert is required along or across a railroad the company is charged with the cost. In the one case
the public pays and in the other a private owner. It is not
pretended that the railway is in any way benefited by the drainage. Its property is not improved, its revenues are not increased. The reconstruction of the bridge or culvert is not
needed by it in its work of transportation. It has used its
present bridge for over forty years, meeting in that time all the
demands of the public for transportation. So that, receiving
no benefit, it is charged with the cost of reconstruction, about
$13,000, in order to improve the value of the lands belonging
to private owners in this Drainage District, when if a highway
crossed at the same place and a new bridge or culvert was required the cost of it would be paid out of the public funds. I
cannot conceive how this can be looked upon as "the equal protection of the laws."
Further, even under the conclusion reached by the court, the
plaintiff in error should recover its costs and, in accord with the
common practice in this court, the order should be that the judgment be reversed and the case remanded for further proceed-

UNITED STATES v. CLARK.
200 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

ings not inconsistent with our opinion. Stanley v. Schwalby,
162 U. S. 255, 282. Why should it be compelled to pay two
or three hundred dollars in costs when it has shown that the
decision below placed an improper charge upon it, the amount
of which is not disclosed and which may be a very substantial
sum?
I am, therefore, constrained to dissent from both the opinion
and judgment.

UNITED STATES v. CLARK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 359. Argued January 9, 10, 190.-Decided March 5, 1906.
The rule that this court will not disturb findings of fact where both the
Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals have concurred should
not be departed from except in a very clear case, especially when those
findings are against a charge of fraud in an effort to overthrow a patent
of the United States.
In order to overthrow a patent on charges of fraud on the part of the entryman, and knowledge thereof on the part of a purchaser, the proof must
be clear and fraud or knowledge of fraud in the entry will not be inferred
from a merely suspicious circumstance; the purchaser is not bound to
hunt for grounds of doubt. United States v. Detroit Timber & Lumber Co.,
ante, p. 321 followed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marsden C. Burch and Mr. Fred A. Maynard, Special
Assistant United States Attorneys, with whom The Solicitor
General was on the brief, for the United States:
In this case the fact is established that the sole purpose which
induced each one of the entrymen and entrywomen named in

