GUARDIAN TRUST CO. v. FISHER.
200 U. S.

Syllabus.

and thus work a gradual confiscation of the property belonging
to the plaintiff.
We think that under the circumstances the decree should be
reversed and the case remanded with instructions either to refer
it to a commissioner for further findings, with leave to take additional testimony if that be deemed necessary, showing the
terms and duration of the alleged agreement between the two
companies, and how far it was acted upon by them, or that the
court should itself undertake this investigation and make like'
findings.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Reversed.

GUARDIAN TRUST AND DEPOSIT COMPANY v.
FISHER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 75. Argued November 2M, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.
Section 1255 of the Code of North Carolina of 1883 provides that mortgages
of corporations shall not exempt the property mortgaged from execution
for judgments obtained in the state courts against the corporation for
torts and certain other causes. A corporation constructed a plant for
supplying a city with water, having received exclusive authority therefor from the city. It executed two mortgages, under the foreclosure of
the second of which its plant was sold, subject to the first mortgage, to
a new corporation, which then executed a further mortgage. Subsequently judgments were rendered in actions brought by property-owners
against the new corporation for damages caused, as charged in the conplaints and recited in the judgments by its negligence. On foreclosure
of the outstanding mortgages the holders of these judgments were given
priority over the mortgagees, notwithstanding the contention of the latter
that the property owners had no contractual relations with, or right to
maintain these actions against, the water company, that the judgments
were not conclusive, the mortgagees not being parties thereto, and that
only the equity acquired by the new company was subject to any judgment lien. In affirming the decision, held that:

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

Under the statute the mortgagees agreed to accept the judgments as conclusive of the amounts due. And the record, showing that negligence was
alleged in the complaints and adjudged by the state court, discloses
judgments in actions of tort.
One may by contract acquire an opportunity for acts and conduct in which
parties other than those with whom he contracts are interested and for
negligence in which he is liable to such other parties.
While a citizen may have no individual claim against a company contracting to supply water to a city for its failure to do anything under the contract, he may have a claim against it, after it has entered upon a contract
and is engaged in supplying the city with water, for damages resulting
from negligence and in such a case the action is not for breach of contract
but for a tort.
Section 1255 is not a penal statute, but remedial, and should be liberally
construed to give effect to the intent of the legislature to make the property of corporations security against its torts, and imposes upon the
plant of a corporation responsibility for torts which cannot be avoided
by a conveyance to a new corporation.

SECTION 1255 of the Code of North Carolina of 1883 reads:
"Mortgages of incorporate companies upon their property
or earnings, whether in bonds or otherwise, hereafter issued,
shall not have power to exempt the property or earnings of
such incorporations from execution for the satisfaction of any
judgment obtained in the courts of the State against such
incorporation, for labor performed [nor for material furnished
such incorporation], nor for torts committed by such incorporation, its agents or employ6s, whereby any person is killed
or any person or property injured, any clause or clauses in
such mortgage to the contrary notwithstanding."

This was subsequently amended by leaving out the matter
enclosed in brackets.
In 1887 a corporation was organized under the laws of
North Carolina, which soon after secured the passage of an
ordinance by the city of Greensboro, giving to it the exclusive

right to the use of the streets, sidewalks and public grounds
for the purpose of constructing, operating and maintaining
a complete system of waterworks. A later ordinance provided that "said water company shall be responsible for all
damage sustained by the city, or any individual or individuals,

GUARDIAN TRUST CO. v. FISHER.
200 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

for any injury sustained from the negligence of the said
company, either in the construction or operation -of their
plant."
The corporation constructed the waterworks and also executed a mortgage or deed of trust, conveying its entire property and plant to secure the payment of fifty thousand dollars
of bonds. A subsequent mortgage or deed of trust was foreclosed and the title to the property passed to a new corporation, subject to the lien of the first mortgage. After its purchase the new corporation executed a further mortgage or
deed of trust. Subsequently two fires occurred, destroying
property belonging to the respondents. Actions were commenced in the Superior Court of Guilford County by the
owners of the property destroyed against the new corporation
and judgments recovered, the judgment entries each reciting
that the recovery was "for the injury and damage done him
by the negligence of the defendant." 128 N. Car. 375. Proceedings having been commenced in the Circuit Court of the
United States to foreclose the existing mortgages, a decree
was entered and a sale made. Thereupon the judgment
creditors intervened, insisting that in the distribution of the
proceeds they were entitled to priority over the mortgage
liens by virtue of the statute above referred to. The Circuit
Court decided in their favor. 115 Fed. Rep. 184. Its judgment was taken on appeal to the Court of Appeals, from which
court the case was brought here on certiorari.
Mr. Archibald H. Taylor and Mr. John Peirce Bruns, with
whom Mr. W. P. Bynum was on the brief, for petitioners:
The state court had no power to determine the question of
the liability of the mortgagees to answer out of their estate to
the judgment creditors, but the sole jurisdiction for the decision
of these questions is with the United States court, which had
taken jurisdiction of the property and of all of the parties. The
decision of the state court that a water company was liable to
property owners for losses by fire, by reason of its contract with

OCTOBER TERMI, 1905.
Argument for Petitioners.

200 U. S.

the city, and that this liability was in tort, was only made after
the rights of all parties had accrued.
Judgments in state courts against corporations of which the
United States courts for sufficient cause have taken jurisdiction
for the purpose of selling their property, distributing proceeds
and ascertaining liens, have no validity against mortgagees of
such corporations, who have properly invoked or obtained the
jurisdiction of the United States court, unless the latter court,
on examination of the facts upon which such judgments were
obtained, itself pronounces such judgment valid, and awards
and enforces such claim. Brooks v. Burlington R. R., 101 U. S.
443; Wisconsin v. PelicanIns. Co., 127 U. S. 292; Central Trust
Co. v. Condon, 67 Fed. Rep. 103; Trust Company v. Cincinnati,
76 Fed. Rep. 296; Trust Company v. Bridges, 57 Fed. Rep. 753;
Trust Company v. Hennen, 90 Fed. Rep. 595; Hassell v. Wilcox, 130 U. S. 503.
In determining the validity or nature of the cause of action
upon which the judgments were recovered in the state court,
neither the court below nor any United States court could accept the decision of the state court in these proceedings, because
the questions are of general jurisprudence which a United
States court must decide for itself. Curtis' Jurisprudence, 234;
Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 33; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 18;
Rowan v. Runnels, 5 How. 134; Steamship Co. v. InsuranceCo.,
129 U. S. 397; B. & 0. R. R. v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368; Venice
v. Murdock, 92 U. S. 494; Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall.
35; RailroadCo. v. NationalBank, 102 U. S. 14; United States
v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115; Pease v. Peck, 8 How. 600; Folsom
v. Ninety Six, 159 U. S. 626.
The only question presented is, what was the decision obligatory upon the United States court below and this court, after
these fires had taken place and prior to the decision of the first
case arising out of them, and there could have been none other,
than that the water company was not liable, either in contract
or in tort. If so the cases decided after the rights of all parties
had accrued, cannot change the law of the United States courts.

GUARDIAN TRUST CO. v. FISHER.
200 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

Lake Shore R. R. v. Prentice, 147 U. S. 101; Knox County v.
National Bank, 147 U. S. 92.
The doctrine of United States courts and of all the state
courts, with one exception, and of the English courts in respect
to the causes of action asserted by these intervenors, the respondents here, against the defendant, the Greensboro Water
Supply Company, supplying water under ordinance or contract
to the city, is that such company is not liable for its failure to
furnish adequate and proper supply to a citizen not having a
direct contract with the company itself, for damage to his property, whether the suit be founded on contract or tort. 2 Dillon
Mun. Corp. 975; Trust Co. v. Salem Water Co., 94 Fed. Rep.
240. In Lumber Co. v. Paducah Water Co., 12 S. W. Rep. 554;
S. C., 13 S. W. Rep. 249, there were private contracts; and see
Nichols v. Water Co., 44 S. E. Rep. 292; Atkinson v. Water
Works Co., 2 Exch. 445; Davis v. Water Works Co., 54 Iowa, 60;
Gas Company v. Louisiana Co., 115 U. S. 651; Vrooman v.
Turner, 69 N. Y. 480; Becker v. Water Works Co., 79 Iowa, 419;
Britton v. Water Works Co., 81 Wisconsin, 48; Hayes v. Oshkosh, 33 Wisconsin, 314; Nickerson v. Hydraulic Co., 46 Connecticut, 24; Eaton v. Water Co., 37 Nebraska, 546; Beck v.
Water Works Co., 11 Atl. Rep. 300; Stone v. Water Co., 4 Pa.
Dist. Rep. 431; Phmenix Ins. Co. v. Trenton Water Co., 42 Mo.
App. 118; Howsmon v. Water Co., 119 Missouri, 304; S. C., 24
S. W. Rep. 784; Fitch v. Water Co., 37 N. E. Rep. 982; Foster
v. Water Co., 3 Lea, 42; Ferrisv. Water Co., 16 Nebraska, 44;
Fowler v. Water Co., 83 Georgia, 219; Mott v. Manufacturing
Co., 48 Kansas, 12; Bush v. Water Co., 43 Pac. Rep. 69; Wainwright v. Water Co., 78 Hun, 146; House v. Water Co., 31 S. W.
Rep. 179; Water'orks Co. v. Brownless, 10 Ohio, 620; Wheeler v.
Cincinnati,19 Ohio, 19; Taintorv. Worcester, 123 Massachusetts,
311; Van Horn v. Des Moines, 63 Iowa, 447; Howard v. San
Francisco,51 California, 52; Black v. Columbia, 19 S. Car. 412;
Mendel v. Wheeling, 28 W. Va. 262; ManufacturingCo. v. Water
Works Co., 113 Louisiana, 1091; Blunk v. Water Supply Co., 71
Ohio St., 250; Wilkinson v. Water Co., 78 Mississippi, 401.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Respondents.

200 U. S.

As to the distinction between torts and breaches of contract,
and the control of the United States courts in determining these
questions for itself, see 1 Chitty on P1., 16th ed. 152; Bouvier's
Law Diet. under "Torts"; Cooley on Torts, 2d ed., 2, 3, 104;
Addison, 6th ed., 1, 14; 2 Jaggard, 27, 898; At. & Pac. R. R.
Co. v. Land, 164 U. S. 399; Langford v. United States, 110 U. S.
346; Wright v. Augusta, 78 Georgia, 241; 7 Am. & Eng. Ency.
Law, 977; Fowler v. Water Co., 83 Georgia, 222; Hodges v.
Railroad Co., 105 N. Car. 171; McCakan v. Hirst, 7 Watts
(Pa.), 178.
A water company owes no duty or obligation to the city, citizens or taxpayers of a community, to furnish water at all, much
less of any adequate pressure or quantity, except such as may
be imposed upon it by contract lawfully entered into. Water
Co. v. Skaneateles, 184 U. S. 362; Coy v. Gas Company, 146
Indiana, 655, distinguished; and see Fitch v. Water Co., 139 Indiana, 214.
Mr. Aubrey L. Brooks for respondents:
Full faith and credit must be given to the state court judgments. Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 484; Hampton v. McConnell, 3 Wheat. 234; Crapo v. Kelly, 16 Wall. 610; Christmas
v. Russell, 5 Wall. 302; Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1; McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet. 312, 324; Thompson v. Whitman,
18 Wall. 457; Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113; Bryan v. Campbell, 177 U. S. 648; Harrisv. Balk, 198 U. S. 215; Hampton v.
McCall, 3 Wheat. 234; Mahue v. Thatcher, 6 Wheat. 129; Bank
v. Dalton, 9 How. 528; Board of Public Works v'Columbia College, 17 Wall. 521; Railway Co. v. Wiggins Ferry Co., 108 U. S.
18; Kansas City Ry. v. Morgan, 21 C. C. A. 478; Southern Railway v. Bouknight, 70 Fed. Rep. 442; Trust Co. v. Railway Co.,
65 Fed. Rep. 257; Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 685.
The mortgages of the old and of the new company stand on
the same footing. Broughton v. Pensacola, 102 U. S. 266; Code
N. Car. § 697; 2 Cook on Stock, § 669; 1 Spelling on Corp.,
§ 93; Friedenwald v. Tobacco Works, 117 N. Car. 544.

GUARDIAN TRUST CO. v. FISHER.
200 U.S.

Argument for Respondents.

The mortgages of both the old and the new company are
void under § 1255, Code N. Car. Coal Co. v. Light Co., 118
N. Car. 236; Potter's Dwarris, 128; Pennsylvania v. Railroad
Co., 61 Fed. Rep. 369; Lanston v. Improvement Co., 120 N. Car.
132; Railroad Co. v. Burnett, 123 N. Car. 214.
If the mortgagee permits the corporation to run the property he must take the risk of liability. Brine v. Insurance Co.,
96 U. S. 364; Insurance Co. v. Cushman, 108 U. S. 51; Insurance Co. v. Jersey City, 113 U. S. 506; RailroadCo. v. Hamilton,
134 U. S. 30; Railroad Co. v. Frazier,139 U. S. 288.
These judgments in the state court are based upon a cause
of action well recognized by law, and in accordance with both
English and American precedents. The causes of action are
based upon a breach of duty implied and imposed by law, as
well as arising from contract, and the intervenors had their
election to sue in contract, or in tort. They chose the latter.
Keener on Quasi Contracts, 160; Griffith v. Water Co., 122 N.
Car. 206; Young v. Telegraph Co., 107 N. Car. 384; Robinson
v. Threadgill, 35 N. Car. 41; Williamson v. Dickens, 27 N.
Car. 260; Bond v. Hilton, 44 N. Car. 308; Solomon v. Bates,
118 N. Car. 315; Fisher v. Water Co., 128 N. Car. 375; At.
& Pac. R. R. Co. v. Land, 164 U. S. 399.
For the liability and obligation of water companies under contracts, see Water Co. v. Walk Walla, 172 U. S. 1, 9; Dillon
Mun. Corp., § 691.
Corporations enjoying public franchises and engaged in publie employment, for which they receive toll, owe a duty to the
public as well as to each individual, to perform the duties undertaken and incident thereto, which duty, in this case, was
almost exclusively to furnish a sufficient pressure of water to
extinguish fires, and this obligation, raised by the law, is added
to and superinduced by the provisions of the contract under
which the corporation is acting. Webb's Pollock on Torts, 20,
69 and cases cited; Coy v. Gas Co., 36 L. R. A. 535; 2 Addison
on Contracts, 1119; Railroad Company v. Eaton, 48 Am. Rep.
179; S. C. 94 Indiana, 474; Brown v. Railroad Co., 41 Am.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

Rep. 41; Bank v. Graham, 100 U. S. 702; Lumber Co. v.
Water Supply Co., 89 Kentucky, 340.
This court will be governed by the decisions of the state court
in a matter of this dnd. Water Co. v. Freeport,180 U. S. 595;
Burgessv. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20.
AIR. JUSTICE BREwER, after maling the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

It is contended that neither the plaintiff in the pending suit
nor the bondholders whom it represents were parties or privies
to the actions in the state court; that therefore the judgments
of the latter court were not conclusive in the foreclosure proceeding as to the nature of the causes of action; that whether
they were for torts or breaches of contract is for the determination of the Federal court, and further, that when the
property passed from the old to the new water company it
passed subject to the fifty-thousand dollar mortgage, and
that under this statute, if applicable at all, only the interest
in the property acquired by the second water company was
responsible for the damages caused by its negligence. On the
other hand, it is contended that the statute deals with judgments-not claims for damages caused by negligence; that
the decision of the state court as to the nature of the cause
of action is as much a part of the judgment as the determination of the amount to be recovered; that a judgment which
in terms is for damages caused by negligence, if entered by a
court having jurisdiction, is made by the statute superior to
any mortgage; that by the mortgage the mortgagee and the
bondholders it represents agree to accept such judgment as
conclusive and to subordinate their mortgage to its lien; that
to hold that the transfer of property incumbered by a mortgage from one company to another puts that mortgage outside
the statute practically destroys its beneficial intent; that such
has been the holding of the Supreme Court of the State, and
is a holding which the Federal courts will follow.

GUARDIAN TRUST CO. v. FISHER.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

WXTe shall assume, without deciding, that the nature of the
causes of action upon which the state judgments were rendered is open for consideration in the Federal court in the
foreclosure proceeding. The statute subordinates the mortgage to judgments for torts. Now what is the judgment?
It is a determination that upon the facts stated the plaintiff
is entitled to recover so much money. It may not be essential
that it recite whether the facts stated show a breach of contract or a tort, but it is essential that the judgment should be
considered as a determination that upon those facts the plaintiff is entitled to recover. And it must be assumed that under
the statute the mortgagee and the bondholders it represents
agree to accept the judgment as conclusive in this respect, or
if not conclusive, at least prima facie evidence. In this foreclosure proceeding the record of the proceedings in the state
courts was introduced in evidence. Taking the Fisher case,
for illustration, the complaint sets out fully the contract made
between the city of Greensboro and the water company, and
the proceedings by which the title to the property passed from
the one company to the other; alleged the destruction by fire
of the plaintiff's property, and that he was free from all negligence in the matter. It added:
"The plaintiff alleges that the defendant company was
culpably negligent and willfully careless of its duty and obligations, both to the city of Greensboro and its inhabitants,
under the said contract, and by virtue also of the duties, obligations and responsibilities which it assumed when it undertook to supply water to the city of Greensboro and its inhabitants for a stipulated price, which was paid to it by the said
city."
It then set forth as matters of negligence on the part of the
wate4r company the "carelessly, willfully and negligently failing to keep a sufficient quantity of water in its storage water
tank in the said city of Greensboro, necessary for the purpose
of extinguishing fire, together with the other uses to which
it was applied;" also a failure "to keep its pumping engine
VOL. cc-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

ready at all times, and particularly on the day of the fire above
referred to, to supply the needed fire pressure, in that it negligently failed to keep a suitable person at said engine or
pumping house, or near the same, for the purpose of responding to the demands for water for the extinguishment of fire,
and especially did it fail so to do at the time the property of
the plaintiff was burned;" and closed with this averment:
"That it was through no fault of the plaintiff that the said
fire occurred, or that the same was not immediately extinguished; but that the negligence and omissions of duty, heretofore complained of on the part of the defendant company, was the proximate cause of the destruction of his
property, whereby the defendant company becomes liable
therefor."
The answer consisted mainly of denials in separate paragraphs of the averments in corresponding paragraphs of the
complaint, specifically denying the validity of the contracts
between the city and the original water company. Questions
were submitted to the jury and answers returned, establishing
the making of the contracts, the attempt on the part of the
company to perform its stipulations, its failure to do so successfully, and also that the plaintiff was injured by the negligence of the defendant.
Upon this record the Supreme Court of North Carolina ruled
that the action was one in tort, saying:
"We think the plaintiff was entitled to judgment as prayed
for. There was an express and legal obligation upon the part
of the defendant to provide and furnish ample protection
against fires, and a breach of that obligation and a consequential damage to the plaintiff. Although action may have
been maintained upon a promise implied by law, yet an action
founded in tort was the more proper form of action, and the
plaintiff so declared. He stated the facts out of which the
legal obligation arose, fully, and also the obligation itself,
and the breach of it and the damage resulting from that breach.
Chitty on Pleading, vol. 1, page 155; Thompson on Corpora-

GUARDIAN TRUST CO. v. FISHER.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tions, vol. 5, see. 6340." Fisher v. Greensboro Water Supply
Company, 128 N. Car. 375, 379.
From the conclusion thus reached we are not inclined to
dissent and for these reasons. One may acquire by contract
an opportunity for acts and conduct in which parties other
than those with whom he contracts are interested and for
negligence in which he is liable in damages to such other
parties. A company is chartered to construct and operate
a railroad. Proceeding thereunder it constructs and operates
its road. Nothing may be said in the charter in reference to
the manner in which the road shall be operated or the particular acts which it must do. Yet without any such specification
it is under an implied obligation to exercise reasonable care
in both construction and operation. If from undue speed,
failure to give proper warnings, or other like acts or omissions,
individuals are injured, they may recover for such injuries,
and their actions to recover sound in tort. Doubtless in the
same transaction there may be negligence and breach of contract. If a railroad company contracts to carry a passenger
there is an implied obligation that he will be carried with reasonable care for his safety. A failure to exercise such care,
resulting in injury to the passenger, gives rise to an action ex
contractu for breach of the contract, or as well to an action
for the damages on account of the negligence-an action
sounding in tort. But where there is no contract, and the
injuries result from a failure of the corporation to exercise
reasonable care in the discharge of the duties of its public
calling, actions to recover therefor are strictly and solely
actions ex delicto. Pollock, in his treatise, groups torts into
three classes, in the last of which he specifies "breach of
absolute duties specially attached to the occupation of fixed
property, to the ownership and custody of dangerous things,
and to the exercise of certain public callings." Webb's Pollotk
on Torts, 7. This, it is said, implies the existence of some
absolute duty not arising from personal contract with the
other party to the action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

And here we are met with the contention that, independently of contract, there is no duty on the part of the water
company to furnish an adequate supply of water; that the city
owes no such duty to the citizen, and that contracting with a
company to supply water imposes upon the company no
higher duty than the city itself owed, and confers upon the
citizen no greater right against the company than it had
against the city; that the matter is solely one of contract between the city and the company, for any breach of which the
only right of action is one ex contractu on the part of the city.
It is true that a company contracting with a city to construct
waterworks and supply water may fail to commence performance. Its contractual obligations are then with the city only,
which may recover damages, but merely for breach of contract. There would be no tort, no negligence, in the total
failure on the part of the company. It may also be true that
no citizen is a party to such a contract, and has no contractual
or other right to recover for the failure of the company to act,
but if the company proceeds under its contract, constructs and
operates its plant, it enters upon a public calling. It occupies
the streets of the city, acquires rights and privileges peculiar
to itself. It invites the citizens, and if they avail themselves
of its conveniences and omit making other and personal arrangements for a supply of water, then the company owes a
duty to them in the discharge of its public calling, and a neglect by it in the discharge of the obligations imposed by its
charter, or by contract with the city, may be regarded as a
breach of absolute duty, and recovery may be had for such
neglect. The action, however, is not one for breach of contract, but for negligence in the discharge of such duty to the
public, and is an action for a tort. "The fact that a wrongful act is a breach of a contract between the wrongdoer and
one person does not exempt him from the responsibility for
it as a tort to a third person injured thereby." Osborne v.
Morgan, 130 Massachusetts, 102, 104. See also Emmons v.
Alvord, 177 Massachusetts, 466, 470. An individual may be

GUARDIAN TRUST CO. v. FISHER.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under no obligation to do a particular thing, and his failure
to act creates no liability, but if he voluntarily attempts to
act and do the particular thing he comes under an implied
obligation in respect to the manner in which he does it. A
surgeon, for instance, may be under no obligation, in the
absence of contract, to assume the treatment of an injured
person, but if he does undertake such treatment he assumes
likewise the duty of reasonable care in such treatment. The
owner of a lot is not bound to build a house or store thereon,
but if he does so he comes under an implied obligation to use
reasonable care in the work to prevent injury therefrom to
others. Holmes on the Common Law, 278. Even if the
water company was under no contract obligations to construct waterworks in the city or to supply the citizens with
water, yet having undertaken to do so it comes under an
implied obligation to use reasonable care, and if through its
negligence injury results to an individual it becomes liable to
him for the damages resulting therefrom, and the action to
recover is for a tort and not for breach of contract.
With reference to the contention that only the interest in
the property acquired by the second water company was responsible for the damages caused by its negligence-a contention which, if sustained, would result in giving priority to
the fifty-thousand dollar mortgage-the argument is that by
the statute "mortgages of incorporate companies .
shall not have power to exempt the property or earnings of
such incorporations . . . for torts committed by such
incorporation;" that the torts were committed by the second
water company; that its purchase was of the property of the
first company, subject to the fifty-thousand dollar mortgage,
and therefore over that property thus encumbered, and that
only, were the judgments given priority. There is, doubtless,
force in this contention. But this is not a penal statute, to
be construed strictly, but remedial in its nature, and to be
construed liberally, to carry into effect the intention of the
legislature and provide the adequate remedy which it in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

tended. The obvious purpose was to make the corporate
property situate in the State security against torts committed
by its owner, and it would materially impair if not wholly
destroy the statute, and thus set at naught that purpose if
the corporation constructing the plant could place a mortgage thereon for its entire value and then by sale to a new
corporation enable the purchaser to use that property discharged of all substantial responsibility. In reference to a
kindred question arising under.the same statute the Supreme
Court of North Carolina said in Railroad Company v. Burnett,
123 N. Car. 210, 214, that under such construction "this statute would be a false light held out to such claimants to induce
them to furnish material and labor-thinking they had a
security, when in fact they had none."
It is more reasonable to hold that the statute imposes upon
thq investment made by a corporate company in its plant a
responsibility for torts committed by it or any subsequent
corporate owner, and that that responsibility cannot be
avoided by any mortgage or other incumbrance voluntarily
placed upon the property. Security to the individual citizen
is to go hand in hand with the franchise and privilege granted
by the State. We see no other question requiring notice, and
the decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE WmTE, MR. JUSTICE PEcKHAm
TICE McKENNA dissented.

and MR. Jus-

