SERRALLES' SUCCESSION v. ESBRI.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

SUCCESSION OF SERRALLES v. ESBRI.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 65. Argued November 27, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.
A Porto Rican contracted, in 1894, to pay a certain amount of pesos in
money current in the commerce, whatever may be the coinage in circulation, at the rate of one hundred centavos of the money in circulation for
each peso. Section 11 of the Foraker Act, passed April 12, 1900, provided for the retiring of Porto Rican coin and the substitution thereof
of United States coin and for the payment of debts at the rate of sixty
cents per peso-and thereafter the debtor offered to pay the obligation at
that rate but the Supreme Court of Porto Rico held that he was entitled
under the contract to one hundred cents for each peso. The creditor also
claimed the matter was res judicrataunder a judgment which had been obtained for an instalment of interest. In reversing this judgment held that;
Appellant having claimed, and been denied, the right to pay the indebtedness at the rate fhxed by ยง 11 of the act of April 12, 1900, this court has
jurisdiction under ยง 35 of that act to review the judgment on appeal.
Under Article 1477 of the Porto Rico Code of Civil Procedure judgments
rendered in executory actions are not res judicata.
The contract only contemplated such change in coin as might occur while
Porto Rico was under the same political power, and a strict and literal
construction of the contract will not be entertained where it does not
convey the real meaning of the parties.
The indebtednes3 should be paid at the rate of sixty cents per peso as fixed
* by the statute, and neither the provisions of the statute, making United
States coin the circulating medium, nor the terms of the contract should
be construed as making a centavo (the one-hundredth part of a peso)
the equivalent of a cent in United States money.

TE appellee, plaintiff below, commenced this action, called
a "declaratory action of greater import," (Law of Civil Procedure, Porto Rico, Arts. 480, 481, 482), to obtain payment of
certain sums due on an indebtedness of the defendant (appellant), secured by mortgage, as stated in that instrument. She
obtained judgment in her favor in the proper District Court of
Porto Rico, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
island, and the defendant has appealed from that judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

to this court. The sole question is whether the debt may be
solved in American money at the rate of sixty cents thereof for
each peso of indebtedness, or must one dollar in American money
be paid for each peso.
The following are the facts: One Nicholas Cartagena y kangual desired to sell the fractional part, owned by him, of a sugar
plantation, known as "Ursula," situated in the municipal district of Juana Diaz, in the province of Porto Rico, such fractional part being eighteen per cent of the value of the whole
plantation, valued at 80,000 pesos. The purchaser, Juan Serralles, agreed to pay for such share 18,000 pesos. Accordingly
a deed of purchase and mortgage was made between the parties on the first day of September, 1894. That instrument
contained the statement that the sale was effected "in consideration of the sum of 18,000 pesos, commercial money," which
shall be paid by the purchaser in instalments, viz., "two thousand pesos on the fifteenth day of July, of the year 1898; two
thousand pesos on the same day and month of the year 1899;
an equal sum of two thousand pesos on the fifteenth day of
July, 1900, and three thousand pesos on the fifteenth day of
July, of the years 1901 to the year 1904, both inclusive, all
of which to be paid in the money current in the commerce,
whatever may be the coinage of the money that as such is in
circulation or is accepted in this province, at the rate of one
hundred centavos (cents) of the money in circulation for each
peso, excluding all kinds of paper money in circulation or to be
issued, even if its circulation should be compulsory."
The instalments were to bear interest at the rate of ten per
cent per annum from the date of the deed, which interest was
due and payable quarterly. The parties also declared "that
the price for which said sale is made is the just and true value
at present of the share and interest hereby sold and conveyed,"
they being "fully aware that that is the value that shall serve
as a basis in the public sale that shall be held if the obligation
is not paid, and its payment should be demanded judicially."
A few days after the execution and delivery of this instru-

SERRALLES' SUCCESSION v. ESBRI.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ment it was discovered that Cartagena was not the owner of all
of the one-eighteenth part of the plantation, because that interest was acquired during his marriage with his first wife, and
was what is termed "conjugal partnership property," acquired
for a valuable consideration during her life. When she died
her interest went to her children, and so the seller, Cartagena,
owned the above-mentioned fractional part of the plantation,
with those children. It therefore became necessary to make
another deed and mortgage, conveying the interest of all the
owners of the fractional part of the plantation, including such
children. This was accordingly done, and on the sixth of October, 1894, another instrument, in the nature of a deed and
mortgage, was executed by the proper parties, in ratification
and extension of the first instrument, and which contains substantially the same provisions as the first instrument, and the
payments were to be made to the parties conveying the premises in the proportion in which they were interested in that
property. These 18,000 pesos were to be paid by the purchaser,
at the same times mentioned in the former instrument, "in
current commercial money, whatever the coinage may be of
money which, with such character, be in circulation or accepted
in this province, at the rate of one hundred cents of the circulating medium for each peso, and to the exclusion of all paper
money, created or to be created, even though its circulation be
compulsory."
On the fifteenth of September, 1900, a quarterly payment of
interest became due under the terms of the mortgage, and the
appellant proposed to pay it in American money then current,
at an amount equivalent in value to the former provincial
money, which was not then in circulation. This offer was refused. The appellee then commenced an action in a municipal
court, to recover the interest due September 15, 1900, in American money, at the rate of one dollar for each peso that was due.
She obtained what is termed an "executory judgment" for such
payment, and that judgment (of the municipal court) was affirmed by the District Court, and the appellant then paid the

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

same. Upon quarterly instalments of interest due December 15, 1900, and March 15, 1901, the appellant made the same
offer to pay in American money of equivalent value of the provincial money or peso, which was not then in circulation, and
the offer was again refused, and this declaratory action of
greater import was then commenced, to recover one American
dollar for each peso of indebtedness due up to the date of the
commencement of suit, and to obtain a declaration that the
future payments should be made in the same manner. Before
the commencement of this action, in 1901, the province had
been ceded to the United States, wlich (prior to the cession)
had occupied it by its troops in 1898. On the twelfth day of
April, 1900, Congress passed an act (31 Stat. 77, 80), section
eleven of which (reproduced in the margin)' provided for retiring the Porto Rican coins and substituting American money
therefor.
In the pleading on the part of the plaintiff below the fore'I"SEc. 11. That for the purpose of retiring the Porto Rican coins now
in circulation in Porto Rico and substituting therefor the coins of the
United States, the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized to redeem, on presentation in Porto Rico, all the silver coins of Porto Rico known
as the peso, and all other silver and copper P6rto Rican coins now in circulation in Porto Rico, not including any such coins that may be imported
into Porto Rico after the first day of February, nineteen hundred, at the
present established rates of sixty cents in the coins of the United States
for one peso of Porto Rican coin, and for all minor or subsidiary coins the
same rate of exchange shall be applied. The Porto Rican coins so purchased
or redeemed shall be recoined at the expense of the United States, under
the direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, into such coins of the United
States now authorized by law as he may direct, and from and after three
months after the date when this act shall take effect no coins shall be a
legal tender, in payment of debts thereafter contracted, for any amount
in Porto Rico, except those of the United States; and whatever sum may
be required to carry out the provisions hereof, and to pay all expenses that
may be incurred in connection therewith, is hereby appropriated, and the
Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized to establish such regulations
and employ such agencies as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes
hereof: Provided, however, That all debts owing on the date when this act
shall taike effect shall be payable in the coins of Porto Rico now in circulation, or in the coins of the United States at the rate of exchange above
named."

SERRALLES' SUCCESSION v. ESBRI.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

going facts were averred, but no averment or contention
was made that the so-called "executory judgment" which
plaintiff had theretofore obtained constituted res adjudicata as
to the question now in issue.
The defendant (appellant herein) put in an answer, setting
up various facts unnecessary to be here adverted to.
He also averred that under section eleven of the act of Congress, above mentioned, he had the right to pay the instalments
due on the mortgage, in American money, at the established
rate of sixty cents in the coin of the United States for one peso
of Porto Rican coin.
The trial court, in its judgment, after reciting the existence
of the executory judgment in the action above described and
also all the proceedings in the case before it, decreed the payment of the interest or instalments which might then be due,
or thereafter to grow due, to the plaintiff, in United States coin
at the rate of one dollar thereof for each peso of indebtedness.
Basing its decree wholly upon the literal language of the contract, the court said: "It appears that Don Juan Serralles y
Colon bound himself to make the payments to said Cartagena,
by virtue of the said contract of sale, in money current in commerce, of whatever coinage it may be, at the rate of one hundred cents of the current money for each peso, it is plain and
evident that the heirs of said Serralles are bound to pay in dollars all the instalments arising from the same contract, or the
interest on the same, for dollars are the money current at present in this island."
An appeal was taken by the defendant to the Supreme Court
on the ground, among others, that the judgment of the District
Court violated Articles 1281 and 1283 of the Civil Code. The
articles are as follows:
"AT. 1281. If the terms of a contract are clear and leave
no doubt as to the intentions of the contracting parties, the
literal sense of the stipulations shall be observed.
"If the words should appear contrary to the evident intention
of the contracting parties, the intention shall prevail.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

"ART. 1283. However general the terms of a contract may
be, there should not be understood as included therein things
and cases different from those with regard to which the persons
interested intended to contract."
Further ground of appeal was the alleged violation of the
eleventh section of the act of Congress above mentioned, under
which appellant claimed the right to pay in United States coin
at the equivalent value of sixty cents for each peso.
The Supreme Court, in due time, after argument, affirmed
the judgment of the court below on the law, holding that the
contract was clear, and its literal terms must be complied with.
It did not, nor did the District Court, hold the prior judgment
to be res adjudicata.
The court also denied the right claimed by the defendant,
under the above-mentioned act of Congress, to pay his indebtedness at the rate of sixty cents of American money for each
peso of such indebtedness, on the ground that the act did not
apply to such cases as the one before the court.
Mr. James S. Harlanfor appellants.
There was no brief for appellees.
Mu. JusTcE PEcEuAI, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question arises herein whether this court has jurisdiction
to hear the case, upon appeal or otherwise. The action is one
to recover the interest due, on an indebtedness from the appellant to the appellee, on account of the purchase by the former
of a certain interest in a plantation in Porto Rico, owned by
the testator of appellee, which indebtedness was secured by a
mortgage. This action is in its nature something like one to
foreclose a mortgage. The question arising in the case is in
regard to the kind of money in which the indebtedness of appellant (both that due at the time of the commencement of the

SERRALLES' SUCCESSION v. ESBRI.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

action and that accruing thereafter) should be paid, the appellee
asserting her right to be paid in American money at the rate of
one dollar for each peso of indebtedness, while the appellant,
on the contrary, asserts his right, under section eleven of the
act of Congress of April 12, 1900, already mentioned, to pay
the indebtedness in money or coim of the United States, at the
rate of sixty cents in such coins for each peso of his indebtedness. This right was denied by the court below on the ground
that there was a clear contract to pay as demanded by the appellee, and that the act of Congress had no application to the
case. Judgment was accordingly given in favor of the appellee,
that the appellant should pay to the appellee the indebtedness
due or thereafter to grow due to her, at the rate of one dollar
in American money for each peso of his indebtedness. Appellant thus claimed a right under a statute of the United States,
which was denied, and under section thirty-five of the Foraker
Act (April 12, 1900), this court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment. Crowley v. United States, 194 U. S.461; Rodriguez
v. United States, 198 U. S.156.
The record also shows that a prior action had been commenced by appellee, in a municipal court of Porto Rico, between the same parties, to recover an instalment of interest due
September 15, 1900, and that the same defense was there made
in regard to the character of the money in which the debt should
be paid. The municipal court in that case decided in favor of
the appellee herein, and judgment to that effect having been
duly entered, an appeal therefrom was taken to the District
Court, which affirmed the judgment, and the same was thereupon paid by the appellant herein. That judgment is not set
up by the appellee as res adjudicata, and while it is recited in
the judgments in this case both in the District and Supreme
Courts as having been recovered, it is not held to be such by
either of the courts, but in such judgments it is referred to as
an "executory judgment," and by Article 1477 of the Porto
Rico "Law of Civil Procedure" (page 299) it is provided that
"Judgments rendered in executory actions shall not give rise

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

to the exception of res judicata, the parties reserving their
rights to institute the ordinary action on the same question."
As the courts below have treated and denominated the prior
judgment in the municipal court as an "executory judgment,"
obtained in an executory action, the reason for not holding the
judgment to be res adjudicatabecomes apparent when the above
article of the code is considered.
We come, then, to a consideration of the proper construction
of the provisions in the two deeds, regarding the kind of money
in which the debt is to be paid. They are set forth in the foregoing statement and are substantially alike, excepting that the
first deed, that of September, 1894, in speaking of the coinage,
says, that the payment is to be made in money that is in circulation or is accepted in the province, at the rate of one hundred centavos (cents) of the money in circulation for each peso,
and in the amended deed of October 6, 1894, the translator of the
original Spanish leaves out the word "centavos," and gives
what he regards as its proper translation, the word "cents," so
that the provision reads that the money is to be paid at the rate
of one hundred "cents" of the circulating medium for each
peso. These two deeds represented the same transaction andwere drawn, of course, in the Spanish language. In the first
deed the interest of the children of Cartagena was not referred
to, because of the mistaken assumption that Cartagena had the
whole title, and upon discovering the mistake the second deed
was made, conveying his interest and the interest of his children,
amounting to one-eighteenth of the whole value of the plantation, as conveyed by that deed to the sane purchaser. The
later deed was regarded by all parties as a mere rectification
and ratification of the first deed, and it is quite clear that the
word "centavos," contained in the first deed, was used in both,
and that the word "cents" is but a translation of the original
Spanish word "centavos," which was used in this contract
drawn in the Spanish language.
This is in truth assumed to be correct by counsel in the court
below, in his communication to that court in behalf of the pres-

SERRALLES' SUCCESSION v. ESBRI.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ent appellee (which forms part of the record herein), as he there
uses the word "cents," and then follows it by the use of the
word "centavos."
It may be, therefore, stated as a fact that the original contract in the deeds provided for the payment in money current
in -the province at the rate of one hundred centavos for each
peso. There is no finding in so many words, as to the value of
the peso mentioned in the contract. The Spanish word centavo is said to be, in Spanish and in South American countries,
a small copper or nickel coin, in value six-tenths of a cent
(actual), and one cent (nominal); the one-hundreth of a peso.
See Standard Dictionary of the English language. The centavo
being worth really six-tenths of a cent, and being the onehundreth part of a peso, would, of course, make the peso worth
sixty cents in American money.
The eleventh section of the act of Congress, already mentioned, provides for the redemption of all silver coins of Porto
Rico known as the peso, and all other copper and Porto Rican
coins in circulation in Porto Rico "at the present established
rate of sixty cents in the coins of the United States for one peso
of Porto Rican coin, and for all minor and subsidiary coins the
same rate of exchange shall be applied." The Congress thus
fixed the rate of exchange in the redemption of these coins, and
it must be assumed to have been fixed at the value of the peso
in American coin.
From these facts it appears to us that there is no rational
doubt that at the time when this contract was executed the
peso in circulation in Porto Rico was worth not to exceed sixty
cents, American money. At the time when the money was due
under the contract, in September, 1900, it is admitted that all
the pesos and centavos theretofore in circulation had been at
that time redeemed by the United States, pursuant to the provisions of the act of Congress, and the money in circulation in
Porto Rico was then and thereafter the money of the United
States. This was the money current in commerce in Porto Rico
and was in circulation and accepted therein as such money. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

is now claimed by the appellee that, as the American money
was the money of commerce and was alone in circulation, she
was entitled in September, 1900, under the provisions of the
contract, to be paid one hundred cents, or, in other words, one
dollar of that money for every peso of indebtedness owed by
the appellant, either then due or thereafter to grow due. By
calling the centavo a cent in American money, while worth but
six-tenths of a cent, the claim is made that the contract really
provided for the payment of one hundred cents of American
money for every peso of indebtedness. In other words, a centavo is made a cent, and it is said the appellant promised to pay
one hundred cents per peso. This construction of the contract
has been upheld by the courts below, because, as it is said, the
strict and plain letter of the contract calls for it, and the result
is that the appellant is adjudged to pay over sixty per cent
more than the value of the interest he purchased, and that
much more than the value of the peso, and also that much more
than the real amount of his debt. While it is true that the
silver coinage of Porto Rico, known as the peso, and all other
silver and copper coins which were in circulation on April 12,
1900, had been retired before September, 1900, and that the
money then current in commerce in Porto Rico was American
money, we do not, on that account, think that the appellee had
the right to claim payment of one dollar in American money for
each ifeso of indebtedness. The centavo is not a cent. It is
equal to but six-tenths of a cent, and the parties contracted,
the one to pay and the other to receive, one hundred centavos
to the peso, not one hundred cents to the peso. Although the
translator seems to have assumed that the word "cents" was
the correct and accurate translation of the word "centavos,"
it must be remembered that the contract was in fact to pay
centavos, and that the centavos were in fact, as we think is
plainly shown in this record, worth only about six-tenths of a
cent, and that while one hundred centavos were worth one peso,
one hundred American cents were worth one dollar, or above
sixty per cent more than the same number of centavos. It is

SERRALLES' SUCCESSION v. ESBRI.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

entirely incredible that either party ever meant any such result
as is now contended for by the appellee. Even if it were conceded that the literal and'strict construction of the contract is
as decided by the courts below, yet we are clear that such literal and strict construction does not express the real intention
of the parties when the contract was made.
Articles 1281 and 1283 of the Civil Code of Porto Rico, set
forth in the foregoing statement, show the law to be in Porto
Rico substantially the same as it is here, that is, that where it
is plain that a strict and literal construction of the contract
does not convey the real meaning of the parties, such construction is not to be entertained. See cases cited in United States
v. Utah &c. Stage Co., 199 U. S. 414. In that case the strict
and literal construction of the contract was contended, by the
officers of the Government, to be its proper construction, and
hence, it was argued, when the contractor might, under the provisions of his contract, be required to perform new or additional
mail, messenger or transfer service, and under the authority of
the Postmaster General, ithout additional compensation, that
then such official could require such additional service as arose
by reason of the establishment of what amounted to a new station, which additional service required, above the normal increase of service, an additional distance to be traveled in wagons
of over 300,000 miles. This court held that the parties never
meant any such thing, and the judgment of the Court of Claims
for the recovery of compensation for the extra distance traveled
was affirmed.
On looking at this contract we are of opinion that it evidently
contemplates only such change in coins as might occur while
Porto Rico was under the same political power. It speaks of
the payment of the debt in the money current in commerce,
whatever may be the coinage of the money that, as such, is in
circulation "in this province." The words "in this province"
evidently did not contemplate any change of government, but
only a possible change of coinage under the same government.
It may be assumed that in 1894 no one could have contracted
VOL. cc-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

with reference to a war between Spain and the United States,
which did not break out until four years thereafter, nor would
any one have contemplated the cession of Porto Rico to the
United States, and the entire substitution of American money
for that which had theretofore circulated in Porto Rico, and the
retirement of all the other money.
The value of the interest sold in the plantation was agreed by
both parties, at the time of the execution of the instrument of
deed and mortgage, to be 18,000 pesos, and so it was plainly
stated in that instrument. The transaction was a bona fide one,
providing for actual conveyance of the interest in the plantation, and there was plainly no gambling in the possible changes
in the value of the coin, which might take place under a foreign
government, when the various payments were to be made.
The parties evidently had no thought of the war, or of being
transferred to a foreign government as a result thereof. Under
the circumstances it is impossible to conceive of sane persons
agreeing in this case upon the value of the interest purchased
and sold, and then that the purchaser should further agree to
pay over sixty per cent more than the value of the thing purchased if it should so happen in the future that different coinage
might be in circulation, under a different sovereignty, which
would effect that result.
The question may be asked, what did the parties mean by
this use of language, if they did not mean precisely what the
courts below have said they did, and where is the justification
for changing the interpretation as gathered from their language?
It may not, perhaps, always be clear to see and determine what
parties did mean by the language they used in a contract, and
at the same time it may be perfectly clear they did not mean to
contract with reference to what the courts below have called
the literal and specific import of the language actually used.
In this case we have no such difficulty. We have just stated
what, in our opinion, the meaning really was, and that it was
aimed at the possible change in coinage or of the value of the
new coin under the decree of the government of Spain itself.

SERRALLES' SUCCESSION v. ESBRI.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Why that contingency should have presented itself is not stated
clearly as a fact in either of the judgments of the courts below.
(It may be here remarked that the judgments of those courts
also partake of the nature of findings of fact and opinions of the
court thereon.) There is a recital in the judgment or decree
of the Supreme Court of what was stated by counsel for appellant in his written communication to the court, and which is
part of the record, and that statement was, in substance, that
the change was contemplated by the Spanish government at
that time (1894), by which the pesos then in circulation were to
be retired, and another coin was to be issued which would be
worth sixty instead of fifty-seven cents to the peso, and it was
with that contingency in mind that the parties provided as they
did in the contract in question. It is true the Supreme Court
does not find the fact of the existence of this intention on the
part of the Spanish government, but, in giving a statement of
what it regarded as the distinction between the case at bar and
one theretofore decided by the same court, ina manner seemingly inconsistent with this decision here, the Supreme Court

said:
"This case being different from what occurred in the case of
Dona Josefa Cayol y Julia, and the agricultural corporation
'Balseiro and Georgetti,' which case was recently decided by
this Supreme Court, and in which neither of the parties had
expressed their will in so clear and explicit a manner as in the
present case, nor could the case offer any difficulty, since the
plaintiff herself had recognized in her complaint-and it was
also proven in the course of the suit-that the clause of the
deed, the application of which was being considered, and on
which she based her claim that the purchasers Balseiro and
Georgetti should pay her the interest on that part of the price,
the payment of which had been postponed, in American currency without the discount fixed by the government of the United States for the money of this country, had been established
by the parties in consideration of the exchange of the Mexican
money which had already been announced by the Spanish gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

eminent on that date when the contract was made, for which
reason this Supreme Court had to dismiss the appeal in cassation interposed by the plaintiff Dona Josefa Cayol, from the
judgment rendered by the District Court of Arecibo, denying
the claim made by the said Dona Josefa Cayol, the court basing
its decision precisely on this same Article 1283 of the Civil Code,
the application of which is the question at issue in the present
appeal."
True, it appears to have been proved in that case, what the
record does not show to have been specifically proved here, that
there was at the time this contract was entered into a contemplated exchange of money to be circulated, and the contemplated change had been announced by the Spanish government
at the time when the contract was made. But this fact is not
a necessity, in order to maintain our view of the proper construction of the contract, for it simply furnishes what may be
termed a presumption that the use of the language as to the
payments was made with reference to this particular and contemplated exchange. The wholly incredible nature of the contract, if construed in the way the lower courts have done, is
none the less apparent, and we cannot agree with a construction
which binds the appellant to pay more than sixty per cent
more than the parties agreed the interest in the plantation
was worth, and just that amount more than both parties supposed was to be paid.
In truth, a careful reading of the whole decree of the Supreme
Court (while also considering that the recitals in that decree of
matters contained in the appellant's brief were not negatived
by the court as to matters of fact, the case being decided wholly
upon the asserted strict construction of the contract) rather
leads one to the conclusion that the court assumed the truth of
those recitals as to the contemplated change of coinage, but
regarded the fact as immaterial in view of what it thought to
be the plain language of the contract. Of course we do not
intimate that the court below was bound to deny the truth of
the recitals or else it was to be taken as admitting it. We only

SERRALLES' SUCCESSION v. ESBRI.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

refer to it in passing, in connection with the language of the
whole decree, and the reasons given for the judgment, as some
ground for the belief that the court in fact assumed the truth
of the recitals, but thought them wholly immaterial. The court
also pays no heed to the evidence which was received upon the
trial of the case, showing the manner in which settlements of
existing debts had been made upon instruments like the one in
question, with or without the particular clause as to payments,
the evidence being that the debts were paid at the rate of exchange provided for in the act of Congress. This, of course,
must have been upon the ground that the words of the contract, as construed by the court, governed.
In the City of San Juan v. St. John's Gas Co., 195 U. S. 510,
the contention was that the money due the gas company for
lighting the street lamps was payable in Porto Rican money,
but this court said that the contract was for payment in current
foreign money, exclusive of Spanish gold; and it was conceded
that if foreign current money was required by the contract,
money of the United States, current at the time the contract
was made, was within the contemplation of the parties. Such
money was also current in the island when performance was
due. The case does not cover the one at bar.
Nor is the debt payable at the rate of one hundred cents for
each peso, on the theory that the money in circulation at the
time and place for the performance of the contract was the
money in contemplation of the parties thereto in the absence
of a contract for the payment in some other money. See 195
U. S. 510, cases cited, page 520.
There was, as we have seen, no contract to pay in American
money at the rate contended for by appellee. In providing
for the withdrawal of all coins in circulation in Porto Rico,
Congress provided at the same time for fixing the equivalent
between those coins and American coins for the payment of all
existing debts. This was simply fixing the value of those coins
relatively to their value in American coin and with reference to
the payment of debts then existing. All money then unpaid

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

on this mortgage obligation was an existing debt within the
act, and hence might be paid in American money at the rate of
exchange therein specified. The withdrawal of the coins of
Porto Rico in circulation at the time of the passage of the act
of Congress, and provided for therein, did not take legal effect,
so far as concerned debts then existing, except upon the condition that those debts might be solved in the coins of the United
States, at the rate of exchange stated in the act. This did not
impair or change the obligation of any contract, and was but
an exercise of power to fix the value of the coins which were to
be withdrawn, and to state the rate of exchange at which existing debts might be paid in American money, and as there was
no contract to pay at any other rate, the act was valid and
applied to this case.
We are of opinion that the appellant is entitled to pay the
balance remaining unpaid of the debt secured by the mortgage
in American money, at the rate of exchange prescribed by Congress.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

MONTANA CATHOLIC MISSIONS v. MISSOULA
COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 151.

Submitted December 13, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.

In order that the Circuit Court may have jurisdiction where diverse citizenship does not exist it must appear, by a statement in legal and logical
form, such as good pleading requires, that there is a controversy really
involving the construction or application of the Federal Constitution
or that the validity or construction of a treaty or statute made under
its authority is drawn in question.

