OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

HERRICK v. BOQUILLAS LAND AND CATTLE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 105. Submitted December 7, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.
On appeal from the Supreme Court of a Territory the jurisdiction of this
court, apart from reviewing exceptions to rulings on evidence, is limited
to determining whether the findings support the judgment.
A finding of a territorial court that one of the parties held title to an undivided interest in the land in controversy acquired by conveyance duly
made from his grantors to whom the Mexican Government had conveyed
it in 1833, by good and sufficient grant, which had in 1900 been recognized and confirmed by the United States Government, is one of fact and
sufficient to sustain the conclusion of law that the title to the land is
in that party.
A judgment of the Court of Private Land Claims is not only tantamount to
a quitclaim from the United States, subject to the rights of third parties,
but it is also conclusive as to existence of a record title upon those claiming to hold under rights originating subsequently to the cession of the
territory from Mexico and also upon those claiming title by adverse
possession.
There was no statute of limitations in Arizona prior to 1901 barring a
right of action for the recovery of lands by one claiming title against
another holding merely by peaceable and adverse possession, and paragraph 2938, Rev. Stat., Arizona, 1901, requiring such an action to be
instituted within ten years after the cause of action accrues has no retroactive effect making it applicable to an action commenced prior to its
enactment and under the circumstances of this case.

TE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ben Goodrich for appellant.
Mr. FrancisJ. Heney for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment, commenced in August, 1901,
by the appellee, to recover a tract of land containing 17,355.86

HERRICK v. BOQUILLAS CATTLE CO.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

acres, and damages for the alleged unlawful withholding of
possession. It was alleged that the plaintiff was the owner and
entitled to the possession of the described land, and that title
had been in it or in its grantors and predecessors in interest ever
since January 1, 1875; and the defendants-thirty in numberwere alleged to have unlawfully withheld possession of the
premises in dispute from about November 28, 1900. Some of
the defendants filed disclaimers or failed to answer. The appellants and others jointly answered, relying solely on rights
alleged to result from an asserted adverse possession by each
of them of a portion of the demanded premises for more than
twenty years prior to the bringing of the action. The case was
tried to the court without a jury. The court made findings of
fact and stated its conclusions of law thereon. Thereupon
judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff. On appeal,
the Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the judgment; and
the opinions delivered on the original hearing and on a rehearing are reported in 71 Pac. Rep. 924 and 76 Pac. Rep. 612.
The Supreme Court adopted the findings of fact made by the
trial court. The findings thus adopted as to the title and right
of possession of the plaintiff were as follows:
"That on the 8th day of May, A. D. 1833, the Mexican Government, by good and sufficient grant conveyed to plaintiff's
grantors and predecessors in interest the lands and premises
herein described, being the lands and premises in controversy.
"That on the 14th day of December, in the year of our Lord,
one thousand and nine hundred, the Government of the United
States, by its letters patent, recognized and confirmed the validity of the said grant of lands in plaintiff's complaint, and
hereinafter particularly described, to Ygnacio Elias Gonzales
and Nepumoceno Felix, and to their heirs, successors in interest
and assigns forever; and found and decreed that W. R. Hearst
and Phebe A. Hearst had acquired an undivided interest in
such lands and premises of the said two grantees.
"That on the 3d day of July, 1901, the said W. R. Hearst
and Phebe A. Hearst, by deed in writing, conveyed all of their
VOL. cC-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

said interest in and to the said lands and premises to the plaintiff herein, and that plaintiff has not since disposed of its title
so acquired, or any part thereof, to said lands and premises."
In addition, the trial court, among its conclusions of law, incorporated the following:
"That plaintiff and its predecessors and grantors in interest
have been since the 1st day of January, 1875, and ever since
have been, and still are, the owners and entitled to the possession of the lands and premises in plaintiff's complaint, and hereinafter particularly described, 'and each and every part and
portion thereof."
The Supreme Court of the Territory, in its opinion on the
rehearing, held this latter statement to be not a mere conclusion
of law but the finding of an ultimate fact, and the court therefore adopted it as part of the findings of fact upon which it
based the decree of affirmance. As to possession by the defendants it was found as follows:
"That each and every of said defendants in this cause were,
on the 14th of December, 1900, and had been for more than ten
years next preceding that date, occupying various portions of
the said lands and premises, and each and every of the said
defendants who have failed to appear and answer herein have
since the last-named date withheld possession of divers portions
of said lands and premises from the plaintiff and its grantors
and predecessors in interest, and still and now so withhold the
same; that since the said December 14, 1900, the annual value
of the rents, issues and profits of that part of said lands and
premises so withheld from plaintiff, by the said defendants, is
as follows, to wit:
"
This appeal was prosecuted.
On appeal from the Supreme Court of a Territory our jurisdiction, apart from exceptions duly taken to rulings on the admission or rejection of evidence, is limited to determining
whether the findings of fact support the judgment. Harrison
v. Perea, 168 U. S.311, 323, and cases cited. As on this record
there is no question presented as to rulings of the court in re-

HERRICK v. BOQUILLAS CATTLE CO.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

spect to the admission or rejection of evidence, we can alone
consider the sufficiency of the findings.
The errors assigned are sixteen in number, and resolve themselves into three classes:
1. Those which assert that the Supreme Court of the Territory refused to consider the findings made by the trial court,
and this embraces the first, second and fifth assignments. But
these assignments disregard the opinion of the Supreme Court
of the Territory delivered on the rehearing, and do not require
further notice.
2. Those which question the sufficiency of the evidence to
support the findings of fact. These are numbered eight and
thirteen, and likewise need not be further refeared to, as they
address themselves to a matter not open for our consideration.
3. Assignments which in various modes of statement attack
the sufficiency of the findings made by the trial court and
adopted by the Supreme Court of the Territory, which include
all of the assignments not already &sposed of.
The contentions concerning the insufficiency of the findings
to support the judgment are resolvable into two propositions,
which we shall separately consider:
First. That, irrespective of the adequacy or inadequacy of
the possession asserted by the defendant below, the findings are
insufficient to sustain the legal conclusion of title in the plaintiff. This proposition rests upon the premise that the matter
included in the conclusions of law of the trial court, which the
Supreme Court held to be a finding of fact, and which it adopted
as such, was but a mere conclusion of law, and, therefore, cannot
be considered in determining the sufficiency of the findings of
fact to sustain the deduction of law made by the court below
as to title in the plaintiff. And with this premise it is insisted
that if the findings of fact proper are alone considered they are
insufficient to establish title in the plaintiff, because, although
they show the Mexican grant, and its confirmation and a conveyance by William R. and Phebe A. Hearst to the plaintiff of
an undivided interest in the land, the findings fail as against

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

defendant to show any title whatever in William R. and Phebe
Hearst, or in the plaintiff as their grantee, derived from the
grantees of the Mexican Government.
Conceding, merely for the sake of argument, the correctness
of the premise, we think the proposition based thereon is without merit, since the findings, without reference to the action of
the court in adopting the particular finding referred to, sustain
as against the defendants the conclusion as to title. Those
findings are that the plaintiff held title to an interest in the land
in controversy, acquired by reason of a conveyance made on
the third day of July, 1901, by William R. and Phebe A. Hearst.
They, moreover, established that the land thus conveyed was
originally acquired by the predecessors and grantors of the
plaintiff through a grant made by the Mexican Government in
1833, and that "on the fourteenth day of December, in the year
one thousand nine hundred, the Government of the United
States, by its letters patent, recognized and confirmed" said
Mexican grant to. two named individuals, "and to their heirs,
successors in interest and assigns forever; and found and decreed that W. R. Hearst and Phebe A. Hearst had acquired an
undivided interest in such lands and premises of the said two
grantors."
It is urged that the statement in the finding as to it having
been decreed that there was an undivided interest in William
R. and Phebe A. Hearst, was adopted from a decree to that effect rendered by the Court of Private Land Claims, established
under the act of March 3, 1891. 26 Stat. 854. From this it is
deduced that the recital in the patent as to the title in W. R.
and Phebe A. Hearst was res inter atios, and that in the absence of an express and substantive finding of title in the parties named from the grantee of the Mexican Government the
mere recital on the subject in the patent furnished no support
whatever for the legal conclusion that there was title. This is
based upon the terms of sections 8 and 13 of the act establishing
the Court of Private Land Claims, wherein it was provided that
the effect of a confirmation of a grant by that court should be

HERRICK v. BOQUILLAS CATTLE CO.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

only to quitclaim the title and not to affect the interests of
third parties. But, conceding that the patent as asserted is
based on a decree of the Court of Private Land Claims, and
that its recitals are controlled by the terms of the act creating
that tribunal, the proposition is without merit. Knight v.
Land Association, 142 U. S. 161, 188, 189.^ In that case it was
held that although a patent which had been issued in consequence of the report of a tribunal appointed by Congress,
merely quitclaimed the rights of the United States and saved
the rights of third parties, it nevertheless was conclusive as to
the existence of a record title upon those claiming to hold under
rights which originated subsequent to the cession, and, a fortiori, as to a person claiming title by mere possession. By the
application of this doctrine it follows that the judgment confirming the land grant and the patent thereunder, which specifically decreed an interest in the confirmed grant to the parties
named, was adequate to establish a record title as against persons asserting the character of rights upon which the defendants
relied.
Second. It is further insisted that, in view of the finding of
the court below as to possession of the defendant for more than
ten years prior to the commencement of the action, the findings
are inadequate to sustain the legal conclusion of the right of the
plaintiff to recover, because of the force and effect of the period
of limitation prescribed in paragraph 2938 of the Revised Statutes of Arizona for 1901. That paragraph is as follows:
"Any person who has a right of action for recovery of any
lands, tenements or hereditaments against another having
peaceable and adverse possession thereof, cultivating, using and
enjoying the same, shall institute his suit therefor within ten
years next after his cause of action shall have accrued, and not
afterward."
The court below held, and its ruling on this subject is not
questioned, that prior to the adoption of this revision of the
Arizona statutes there was no statute of limitations in that
Territory barring a right of action for the recovery of lands by

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

one claiming title against another holding merely by peaceable
and adverse possession. The revision went into effect on September 1, 1901, and the present action was brought a few days
prior to such date, viz., on August 26, 1901.
In approaching the question whether paragraph 2938 was
applicable to the case, the court below assumed that the effect
of the finding as to possession by defendants was to show peaceable and adverse possession by them for the period of ten years.
The court, however, decided that under no canon of construction or rule giving a retroactive effect to a new statute of limitation could paragraph 2938 be made to apply to this case.
Thus, suggesting the possible constructions which might be
claimed for the paragraph, it was said that if construed as absolutely barring causes of action existing at the time of its passage, it was unconstitutional, citing Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall.
596. Further, that even if the statute were construed as providing that all actions existing at the time of the passage of the
statute should be barred if not sued upon within the time which
elapsed between the date of such passage, and the date fixed
for the going into effect thereof, this action was brought within
such period and the statute could not operate as a bar, citing
Wrightman v. Boone County, 82 Fed. Rep. 412, and various
state decisions therein referred to. And, lastly, it was decided
that if the paragraph was construed as not applying to a suit
which, though commenced after the passage of the act, was
pending at the time the same took effect, the statute had no
application, citing Vreeland v. Town of Bergen, 34 N. J. Law,
438.

We think the Supreme Court of the Territory was clearly
right in the views which it thus expressed, and therefore it committed no error in determining that under no possible hypothesis could the limitation prescribed in paragraph 2938 of the
Revised Statutes of Arizona operate to bar the plaintiff's action, in view of the findings of fact in respect to the title of
plaintiff.
Afrmed.

