OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

to the salutary doctrine underlying the whole law of municipal
corporations and the doctrines of the adjudged cases, that
grants of special privileges affecting the general interests are
to be liberally construed in favor of the public, and that no
public body, charged with public duties, be held upon mere
implication or presumption to have divested itself of its powers.
As, then, the city of Knoxville cannot be held to have precluded itself by contract from establishing its own independent
system of waterworks, it becomes unnecessary to consider any
other question in the case. The judgment of the court dismissing the bill must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, MR. JUSTICE WHITE, MR. JUSTICE

PECKHAw and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dissented.

OWENSBORO WATERWORKS COMPANY v. OWENSBORO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 145. Submitted December 13, 1905.-Decided January 2, 1906.
Maladministration of its local affairs by a city's constituted authorities cannot rightfully concern the National Government, unless it involves the infringement of some Federal right.
When a Federal court acquires jurisdiction of a controversy by reason of the
diverse citizenship, it may dispose of all the issues in the case, determining the rights of parties under the same rules or principles that control
when the case is in the state court. But, as between citizens of the same
State, the Federal court may not interfere to compel municipal corporations or other like state instrumentalities to keep within the limits of the
power conferred upon them by the State, unless such interference is necessary for the protection of a Federal right.
The acts of a municipal corporation are not wanting in the due process of law

WATERWORKS COMPANY v. OWENSBORO.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ordained by the Fourteenth Amendment, if such acts when done or ratified
by the State would not be inconsistent with that Amendment. Many acts
done by an agency of a State may be illegal in their character, when tested
by the laws of the State, and may, on that ground, be assailed, and yet
they cannot, for that reason alone, be impeached as being inconsistent with
the due process of law enjoined upon the States.
The Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to bring within Federal control everything done by the States or by its instrumentalities that is simply
illegal under the state laws, but only such acts by the States or their instrumentalities as are violative of rights secured by the Constitution of the
United States.
The Circuit Court cannot take cognizance of a suit to prevent a municipality
from improperly issuing bonds under the circumstances of this case as it
does not involve a controversy under the Constitution and laws of the United States and diverse citizenship does not exist.

Tm plaintiff in this suit, the Owensboro Waterworks Company, is a private corporation of Kentucky, while the defendant, the city of Owensboro, is a municipal corporation of the
same Commonwealth.
The bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction in the court
below to hear and determine the cause, the Circuit Court being
of opinion that the suit was not one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, and the matter in dispute
not of sufficient value to give that court jurisdiction.
The case made by the bill was this:
On the tenth day of October, 1900, the Common Council of
Owensboro adopted an ordinance authorizing the borrowing
of money, upon the city's bonds, for the purpose of erecting a
system of waterworks for supplying the city of Owensboro and
its inhabitants with water. The ordinance provided for a submission to the voters of the question of issuing city bonds to
the amount of $200,000 with which to raise money for the purpose just stated.
The election was held and the proposition was carried, more
than two-thirds of those voting approving the proposed issue
of bonds.
By an ordinance of December 3, 1900, bonds to the amount of
$200,000 were directed to be issued, and $14,666.66 was appro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

priated out of the revenues and public moneys of the city for
the payment of the semi-annual interest on the bonds and the
creation of a fund for the ultimate payment of the principal
thereof, such fund to be designated as the Owensboro Water
Bond Account.
By an ordinance approved March 11, 1901, $14,666.66 was
appropriated and set apart out of the revenues and funds of
the city, to be raised by taxation or otherwise, each year until
the bonds were paid, for the purpose of paying the interest on
the bonds semi-annually and for creating a sinking fund for the
payment of the principal of the bonds. And for the purpose
of providing a fund for that purpose it was ordained, the bill
alleged, that there should be, and that there was thereby, levied
upon all the taxable property of said city subject by law to taxation for municipal purposes, a direct annual tax for the year
1901, and for each succeeding year up to and including the year
1931, sufficient to raise the said sum of $14,666.66, to be collected annually with other municipal taxes, licenses, revenues
and public dues, and continuing from year to year until the ultimate payment of the bonds; and it was also, by the ordinance,
ordained that no part of said funds should ever be used for, or
appropriated to, any other purpose or use, except the payment
of the principal and interest of the bonds; further, that provision to meet the requirements of said section be made in the
annual budget and appropriation ordinance.
Pursuant to the ordinance of December 3, 1900, the city executed 200 bonds of $1,000 each, bearing 4J per cent interest
per annum from their date, January 1, 1901, payable semiannually, and transferable by delivery, and at the date of the
bringing of this suit all of those bonds were, the bill alleged, in
the possession or under the control of the city, "ready and
about to be inunediately sold and delivered to purchasers, with
the exception of seven bonds which the said Mayor and Council
have already sold and have received therefor the sum of $7,000."
In each of the years 1901, 1902 and 1903 the city, proceeding
under ordinances adopted by the Common Council, levied an

WATERWORKS COMPANY v. OWENSBORO.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ad valorem tax of $2 on each $100 worth of property in the city
subject to taxation, part of such tax, $14,666.66, to be appropriated annually for the payment of interest on the water bonds
and for the creation of a sinking fund for the ultimate payment
of the principal. A similar tax was also levied for 1904, of
which $14,666.66 was appropriated to pay interest and create
a sinking fund-S8,000 to be paid on interest and $6,666.66 to
go into the sinking fund. So that under the levies made in
1901, 1902 and 1903, $44,000 had been collected for interest
and the sinking fund, and $14,666.66 was to be collected for
1904.
Of the 200 bonds actually signed, 193 remain in the hands of
the city, its officers and agents, and after applying the sum of
814,000, collected under the levies of 1901, 1902 and 1903, and
the $14,666.66 to be collected under the levy of 1904, there will
remain only $149,000 to be raised by the sale of bonds. Nevertheless, the city, by its agents and officers, claims to have authority and proposes immediately to sell and dispose of, and,
unless restrained, will sell and dispose of the entire 193 bonds,
amounting to $193,000. If that be done, then the city will
have collected and realized 8244,000 on account of the erectibn
of the waterworks; whereas it was only authorized to raise
$200,000 for that purpose. Of the $44,000 collected by the
city $20,000 has been expended for land on which the proposed
water plant was to be erected, while $24,000 has been illegally
expended for purposes other than those for which it was collected.
The bill further alleges that for each of the years 1901, 1902
and 1903, taxes were levied on the taxable property of plaintiff,
and other taxpayers of the city; that capitation, license and
franchise taxes were also assessed, levied and collected by it;
that all the taxes so levied were collected each year, from all
sources, and for all purposes, were expended and exhausted
each year, and none so collected, in either of said years, are now
on hand; that no part of the 844,000 collected is on hand, nor
has said city any means of replacing same, except by levying

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

and collecting taxes from the taxpayers of said city for that
purpose, and this it had no legal authority to do; that by the
payment of the $44,000 the city paid and extinguished that
amount of bonds, and bonds to that amount should be surrendered up and cancelled, and that by law complainant, and
other taxpayers have the right to have said bonds so surrendered and cancelled.
The bill proceeds: "Your orator says said bonds are negotiable by delivery, and are on the footing of commercial obligations, and if said 193 bonds, or any of them, shall be sold and
transferred for value, to innocent bona fide purchasers, then complainant and all other taxpayers of said city would be compelled
to pay the full amount of all of said 200 bonds, and the full
amount of all interest accrued, or to accrue thereon. It says
defendant and its officers and agents purpose and are now
endeavoring to immediately sell and transfer said 193 bonds, and
coupons attached, to some person for value, and are doing this
without giving such persons any notice, or information of the
facts herein stated, or of any facts pertaining to the collection or
disposition of any part of said $44,000, and purpose to continue
said efforts without giving to any person, to whom said bonds
may be offered, any notice or information pertaining thereto,
and said prospective purchasers have no notice, knowledge or
information of any of said facts, so far as complainant is advised or believes, and, unless restrained and prevented, defendant and its officers and agents will immediately sell said bonds
and coupons to some person or persons, for value, who have no
notice or information in regard to said transaction, and will do so
without giving such persons any notice or information as to said
facts, and thus complainant and its property, and said other
taxpayers and their property, will be burthened with the payment of said entire 200 bonds and interest, and, by the means
aforesaid, and without due process of law, deprived of the right
to have credit, on said debt, for said $44,000 heretofore paid by
them, and be compelled to pay said 200 bonds and all interest
accrued and to accrue thereon.

WATERWORKS COMPANY v. OWENSBORO.
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"Your orator says that by Article fourteen of the Amendments to the Constitution of the United States it is provided
that no State shall 'deprive any person of life, liberty or property, without due process of law,' but your orator says that if
more than 149 of said bonds shall be sold to innocent purchasers, without notice, which defendant city is about to do, that
it and the taxpayers, for whom it sues, will be forced to pay
such excess, both principal and interest, without opportunity
to plead, or to be heard as to the matters herein alleged, and
so deprived of their property without due process of law, and
the amount in controversy here exceeds $2,000."
The relief prayed was that the defendant, its officers and
agents, be perpetually enjoined and restrained from selling or
disposing of any of the bonds in excess of 149 in number, and
before selling them to detach and destroy all coupons for interest that have heretofore matured or that may mature before
the date when the bonds may be sold, and be ordered and compelled to cancel and surrender all of the bonds, and all coupons
pertaining thereto, in excess of 149, and that the bonds and
coupons be destroyed, and if the $14,666.66 levied May 16,
1904, should be collected before the sale was made of the bonds,
that said sum be applied to the extinguishment of the debt and
interest, and the bonds and interest coupons be destroyed, and
not sold, as prayed for in regard to the money heretofore collected; also that defendant be enjoined and restrained from
levying and collecting from complainant, and all the other taxpayers, of the city, or their property, any taxes in excess of a
sufficient amount to create a sinking fund with which to pay
the 149 bonds, when sold, and the seven bonds, already sold,
and to pay the interest to accrue thereon, upon the seven bonds,
heretofore sold, and to accrue upon the 149 bonds, after they
were sold.
The plaintiff further prayed that the sum of $44,000, paid by
the taxpayers of the city, be adjudged to have satisfied that
amount of the bonds, and that it have such further or other
relief in the premises as the nature of the case required.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opimion of the Court.

200 U. S.

Mr. JohnD. Atchison and Mr. William T. Ellis for appellant:
The Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction. The
bill shows the taxpayers are about to be deprived of their property without due process of law. Complainant has the right,
as a taxpayer, to maintain this action in its own behalf and on
behalf of all the other tax-payers, who are too numerous to be
brought before the court, and there is nothing in the record to
show that it will not truly represent the interest of such other
taxpayers.
By the sale of the entire issue of negotiable bonds, involved
in this case, the officers of the city, who are officers created by
the state statute, and thus officers of the State, will place an
unlawful encumbrance upon the property of the taxpayers by
which they will be compelled to pay $44,000 more than they
agreed to pay, and thus be deprived of their property to that
extent without due process of law. Dundee Mortgage Co. v.
School District, 19 Fed. Rep. 359; Southern Railway Co. v. Corporation Commission, 97 Fed. Rep. 513; Ex parte Virginia, 100
U. S. 339; C., B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226.
The Circuit Court has jurisdiction. Brown v. Trusdale, 138
U. S. 389; Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 302; Water Company
v. El Paso, 152 U. S. 157; Colvin v. Jacksonville, 158 U. S. 456.
Mr. Charles S. Walker for appellee.
MR. JusTrors HARYA, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill presents the case of the diversion, or the intended
diversion, by a municipal corporation, of certain funds which
under legislative sanction it had collected from taxpayers for
a specific public object, which funds were not applied to the
object for which they were raised, and which failure of duty
on the part of the corporation so to apply them may ultimately
cause increased taxation if the full amount originally intended
to be applied to the particular object named by the legislature
is to be collected.

WATERWORKS COMPANY v. OWENSBORO.
200 U.S.

45

Opinion of the Court.

We share with the court below the difficulty in understanding
how such a case can be regarded as one arising under the Constitution of the United States. It certainly must be one of that
character in order to sustain the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court-the parties, all, being citizens of Kentucky.
In support of their contention that the present suit arises
under the Constitution of the United States and is within the
original cognizance of the Circuit Court, without regard to the
citizenship of the parties, the learned counsel for the plaintiff in
error cites certain cases in this court which hold that the prohibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment "refer to all the instrumentalities of the State, to its legislative, executive and
judicial authorities," and consequently, "whoever, by virtue of
public position under a state government, deprives another of
any right protected under that Amendment against deprivation
by the State, violates the constitutional inhibition; and as he
acts in the name and for the State, and is clothed with the
State's power, his act is that of the State." Ex parte Virginia,
100 U. S. 339, 346, 347; Neal v. Delaware, 103 U. S. 370, 397;
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162
U. S. 565; Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226,
235.
These were all cases in which the right sought to be protected
was held to have been granted or secured by the Constitution
of the United States, but yet was violated by some agency or
instrumentality proceeding under the sanction or authority of
the State. But no right involved in the present case has its
origin in or is secured by the Constitution of the United States.
It is not contended that the legislative enactments by the authority of which the city intends to establish and maintain a
system of waterworks are inconsistent either with the constitution of Kentucky or the Constitution of the United States.
The plaintiff, however, complains that the defendant city has
not properly discharged its duties under the laws of the State.
For the purposes of the present discussion let this be taken as
true; still, maladministration of its local affairs by a city's con-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

stituted authorities cannot rightfully concern the National Govenment, unless it involves the infringement of some Federal
right. If the city authorities have received funds from taxation which ought strictly to have been applied to take up or
cancel the bonds of the city, but have been used for other municipal purposes, and if, by reason of such misapplication of
those funds, taxation may ultimately come upon the people for
an amount beyond what the legislature originally intendedif nothing more can be said-the remedy must be found in the
courts and tribunals of the State and not in the Federal courts
of original jurisdiction where the controversy is wholly, as it is
here, between citizens of the same State. When a Federal
court acquires jurisdiction of a controversy by reason of the diverse citizenship of the parties, then it may dispose of all the
issues in the case, determining the rights of parties under the
same rules or principles that control when the case is in the
state court. But, as between citizens of the same State, the
Federal court may not interfere to compel municipal corporations or other like state inr rumentalities to keep within the
limits of the power conferred upon them by the State, unless
such interference is necessary for the protection of a Federal
right. There has been no actual invasion here of any right secured by the Constitution of the United States; nothing more,
taking the allegations of the bill to be true, than a failure of a
municipal corporation to properly discharge the duties which,
under the laws of the State, it owes to its people and taxpayers.
And there is here no deprivation of property without due process of law within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment,
even if it be apprehended that the defendant city may, at some
future time, impose a tax in violation of its duty under the laws
of the State.
The utmost that can be said of the present case, as disclosed
by the bill, is that the municipal authorities of Owensboro have
done some things outside or in excess of any power the city
possessed. But this does not of itself show that they acted
without the due process of law enjoined by the Fourteenth

WATEIWORKS COMPANY v. OWENSBORO.
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment; for, if what is complained of had been done directly by the State or by its express authority, or if the legislature could legally ratify that which the city has done, as it
undoubtedly might do, no onie would contend that there had
been a violation of the due process clause of the Amendment.
It cannot be that the acts of a municipal corporation are wanting in the due process of law ordained by the Fourteenth Amendment, if such acts when done or ratified by the State would not
be inconsistent with that Amendment. Many acts done by an
agency of a State may be illegal in their character, when tested
by the laws of the State, and may, on that ground, be assailed,
and yet they cannot, for that reason alone, be impeached as
being inconsistent with the due process of law enjoined upon
the States. The Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to
bring within Federal control everything done by the States or
by its instrumentalities that is simply illegal under the state
laws, but only such acts by the States or their instrumentalities
as are violative of rights secured by the Constitution of the
United States. A different view would give to the Fourteenth
Amendment a far wider scope than was contemplated at the
time of its adoption, or than would be consonant with the authority of the several States to regulate and administer the
rights of their peoples, in conformity with their own laws, subject always, but only, to the supreme law of the land.
We are of opinion that this suit is not one arising under the
Constitution of the United States, and, therefore, the parties
being all citizens of Kentucky, it is not one of which the Circuit
Court could take original cognizance.

Affmed.

