OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Syllabus.

200 U. S.

nary suits. Judges of practical experience have pointed out
the expense, embarrassments and delay which would be caused
if a formal objection necessarily should put a creditor to the
production of evidence or require a continuance. Justice is
secured by the power to continue the consideration of a claim
whenever it appears there is good reason.for it. We believe
that the understanding of the profession, the words of the
act and convenient and just administration all are on the side
of treating a sworn proof of claim as some evidence even when
it is denied.
Orderaffirmed.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
SOUTHERN

CALIFORNIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
SAME.
ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. SAME.
SANTA FE PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. SAME.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY v. SAME.
APPEALS FROAT THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Nos. 158, 159, 160, 161. 162. Argued Sanuary 23, 24, 1906.-Decided February 26, 1906.
The Southern Pacific and other railroads published a guaranteed through
rate on citrus fruits from California to the Atlantic seaboard. The
shippers availing of this rate routed the goods themselves from the terminals of the initial carriers and illegally obtained rebates for the routing
from the connecting carriers. To prevent this-and the action was successful-the initial carriers republished the rate reserving the right to
route the goods beyond their own terminals. On complaint of shippers
the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered the initial carriers to desist
from enforcing the new rule, holding it violated § 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act by subjecting the shippers to undue disadvantage. The Circuit Court sustained the Commission but on the ground that the routing
by the carrier amounted, although no other agreement was proved in re-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 537
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

gard thereto, to a pooling of freights and violated § 5 of the act. Held,
error and that:
As the general purpose of the act was to facilitate commerce and prevent
discrimination it will not be construed so as to make illegal a salutary
rule to prevent the violation of the act in regard to obtaining rebates.
The question of joint through rates is, under the act, one of agreement between the companies and under their control, and nothing in the act prevents an initial carrier guaranteeing a through rate to reserve in its published notice thereof the right to route the goods beyond its own terminal.
A carrier need not contract to carry goods beyond its own line, or make a
through rate; if it does agree so to do, it may do so by such lines as it
chooses, and upon such reasonable terms, not violative of the law, as
it may agree upon; and this right does not depend upon whether it
agrees to be liable for default of the connecting carrier.
The fact that the initial carrier, in order to break up the practice of rebating by the connecting carriers, promises them fair treatment and carries out the promise by giving them certain percentages of its guaranteed
through rate business, does not amount to a pooling of freights within
the meaning of § 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
A reservation applicable to a single business by the initial carrier, guaranteeing a through rate, of the right to route goods beyond its own
terminal does not amount to an unlawful discrimination within the
prohibition of the act if the business is of a special nature, like the fruit
business, having nothing in common with other freight.
In a suit by the Interstate Commerce Commission to enforce an order
made by it, the court is not confined in passing on the validity of the
order to the reasons stated by the Commission.

TrESE are appeals from orders or decrees of the Circuit

Court of the United States for the Southern District of California, in proceedings wherein that court affirmed, and ordered
to be enforced, the determination of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, relating to the above-named railroad companies,
directing them to desist from maintaining or enforcing a rule

adopted by them and pertaining to shippers of oranges and
other citrus fruits in Southern California, whereby those shippers were denied their alleged right of designating the routes
for the transportation of their property from California to the
eastern markets, under a tariff of through rates, as mentioned
in the orders or decrees.
The proceeding in each case was commenced before the
Commission under sections 13, 14 and 15 of the Interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U S.

Commerce Act, U. S. Comp. Stat. pp. 3154-3164; 24 Stat.
379, by the filing of a petition with the Commission, on the
part of certain corporations of the State of California, called
the Consolidated Forwarding Company, and the Southern
California Fruit Exchange, engaged in the business of shipping
oranges and other citrus fruit from Southern California to the
eastern markets. The proceeding was continued in the Circuit Court under section 16 of the act. The petition charged
the railroads with various violations of the Interstate Commerce Act, including specially the agreement for "routing,"
hereinafter set forth, and asked the Commission to enjoin such
companies from any further violation of the act. The companies put in answers to the petition, denying its material
averments. Testimony was then talen before the Commission,
and the following, among other facts, were shown:
The through tariff of rates from California to the East, with
the right of routing, which had been agreed upon between the
companies complained of (hereinafter called the initial carriers)
and their eastern connections regarding the oranges and other
citrus fruit transportation was in force January 1, 1900, and
these proceedings were commenced February 26, 1900. Before the adoption of the rule for routing there had been among
the eastern connections of the initial carriers under the through
joint tariff rates then existing, the greatest rivalry to obtain
the California fruit freight business, and this rivalry led, on
the part of the connecting carriers, to a system of rebates from
the through tariff rates, which was a clear violation of the
Commerce Act, and was demoralizing in every way to honest
business. Indeed, the president of one of complainants before
the Commission admitted that his company (the Southern
California Fruit Exchange) had in four years received rebates
to an amount of over $174,000. The practice had become so
general that the shippers came to regard a rebate as part of
the legitimate returns from the orange business. Among those
who participated in this system of rebates were what is termed
the car line comapanies, which were incorporated companies

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 539
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

owning cars in which the fruit was packed, described as ventilator or refrigerator cars, which were peculiarly adapted to
the carriage of the fruit, and were hired by the initial carriers
because they did not want to own equipment cars which they
could keep in service only part of the year, while the car companies could use the cars for other purposes in other parts of
the United States when the orange transportation was over.
These car companies made arrangements with the connections
of the initial carriers east of Chicago and New Orleans, by
which a certain bonus, varying from $10 to 840 per car, was
given the car line companies, in consideration of the car being
routed over the line paying the bonus, a part of the bonus,
varying from a quarter to a half, being usually turned over
to the shipper by the car company, for the privilege allowed
the latter of routing the shipment.
The initial carriers form two systems, one called the Southern Pacific System and the other the Santa Fe System. There
are numerous points of junction on these lines of the defendants, where connection is made with other carriers, and at
their termini in Chicago, Ogden and New Orleans such connection is made, and through lines are formed over which the
cirtus fruit is transported to practically all the markets of the
United States. The two systems are the only ones which
reach the section of country where the orange industry in
Southern California exists, and they about equally 'divide the
transportation of the oranges therefrom. The Commission
said the evidence was unsatisfactory as a basis for a conclusion
whether the initial carriers pooled their citrus fruit traffic or
divided the earnings therefrom, and it therefore retained such
question for further hearing and investigation.
Prior to January, 1900, the rebates by the eastern companies, already referred to, had become so great and demoralizing that the initial carriers at length determined to try and
crush the whole thing. The connecting carriers were themselves dissatisfied with this state of things, but each felt it
necessary in order to compete with the others. It had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Statement of the Case.

200 U. S.

assumed that the car line companies were not common carriers,
and were not within the Commerce Act, and therefore they were
rmore ready to indulge in the practice of getting rebates whenever they could, and paying part of the amount to the shippers
for giving them the right to route the shipment. Prior to the
adoption of the through rate tariff with this rule under discussion, the shippers had been permitted by the initial carriers to
control the routing of the freight, and also to divert it, en route,
from the destination point named in the bill. In order to stop
the rebating on these joint through rates it was proposed to
agree upon a through rate tariff, to be assented to and accepted
by the railroads interested in the fruit transportation, or by as
many of them as possible, with the rule in question to form part
of the agreement. Such a tariff agreement was made between
some of the roads (and subsequently assented to and joined
in by most of the roads), and filed with the Commission, for
the transportation of oranges and other citrus fruit from
Southern California at $1.25 per hundred pounds, to practically all points east of the Missouri River. The tariff agreed
upon by the companies contains the rule complained of, which
is part of such agreement, and by it the initial carriers agreed
to guarantee the through rates to the shipper, but only on
the following conditions: "In guaranteeing the through rate named herein, the absolute and unqualified right of routing beyond its own terminal
is reserved to initial carrier giving the guarantee. In accordance with this rule, agents will not accept shipping orders or
other documents, if routing instructions are shown thereon.
Neither will agents accept verbal routing instructions."
Another rule reads:
"Initial carrier -ill route each car from point of origin to
point of destination, and diversions in transit will not be permitted except by consent of initial carrier, who will thereupon
designate new routing when diversion necessitates change
therein."
Notwithstanding the rule thus published in regard to rout-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 541
200 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ing, the initial carriers generally thereafter permitted the shippers to route the cars containing their fruit as they desired.
The right to divert freight from the destination point or route
named in the bill of lading and before the freight reached the
billed destination, had been exercised generally by shippers,
and had been allowed by the carriers throughout the country,
and the practice was regarded of value to the shippers, as it
enabled them sometimes to realize higher prices than they
otherwise might if the freight were continued to the original
destination. This diversion by the shippers also continued
to be generally allowed.
The reason for the rule, reserving to the initial carrier this
right to route the traffic, is stated to have been because it
enabled the initial carriers to secure the discontinuance of the
practice of paying rebates. Since the adoption of that rule
the rebates which had been paid to shippers and to owners of
car lines were discontinued, and the Commission says there is
no evidence that the practice has been resumed. They were
discontinued for the obvious reason that the shippers could
not control the route, and hence it would be useless for the
eastern railroad company to pay the shippers or the car line
companies rebates on freight the eastern company might not
receive and which the initial carrier alone had the routing of.
As soon as the routing was agreed upon and the through tariff
rates fixed, the eastern connections had to do business with
the initial carriers instead of the car company or the shipper.
The shippers prepay or guarantee freight charges to destination. The initial carrier does not assume liability from damage resulting from negligence of any connecting line.
The Commission (the chairman, Mr. Commissioner Knapp,
dissenting) ordered the defendants to cease from exacting
from the shippers the right to themselves make the route which
the freight should take. The ground taken by the Commission was that such routing by the initial carriers subjected
the shippers to undue, unjust and- unreasonable prejudice and
disadvantage, and gave to the carrier an undue and unrea-

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

200 U. S.

sonable preference and advantage, and was a violation of the
thi d section of the act.
The initial carriers, believing the Commission had erred in
its decision, refused to obey the order which it made, and
thereupon the Commission, pursuant to the sixteenth section
of the act, filed its bill in the Circuit Court for the purpose of
enforcing its order.
The bill thus filed by the Commission was demurred to by
the defendants, and the demurrer was overruled. 132 Fed.
Rep. 829. The railroad companies then answered, and the case,
after the taking of further evidence, came up for final hearing,
when the order of the Commission was affirmed and directed to
be enforced (132 Fed. Rep. 829), although the Circuit Court put
the affirmance on the ground that the agreement as to routing
showed that there was a violation of § 5 of the Commerce Act,
in that such agreement amounted to a contract or combination
for the pooling of freights. The court passed upon no other
question raised in the case. A very full statement of facts is
contained in the report in 132 Fed. Rep. supra.
A motion was made for a supersedeas pending the hearing
of this appeal, which, for the reasons stated in the opinion of
the Circuit Court, was denied. 137 Fed. Rep. 606.
Mr. Robert Dunlap, with whom Mr. Thomas J. Norton and
Mr. GardinerLathrop were on the brief, for appellants, Southern California Railway Company, Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Railway Company, and Santa Fe Pacific Railroad Company.
Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. Robert S. Lovett was on
the brief, for appellant, Southern Pacific Company:
This is a special proceeding in which the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court is confined to determining the lawfulness of the
order of the Commission, and if found to be lawful to enjoin
obedience thereto, otherwise to dismiss the bill. Sec. 16,
pp. 3165, 3166, 3 U. S. Comp. Stat. If the Commission have
misconstrued or misapplied the provisions of this law their order
is invalid. Int. Cor. Com. v. L. V. R. R. Co., 74 Fed. Rep. 784;
ERRATA:
Page 542, ninth line ftom top, "132 Fed. Rep. 829"
should read "123 Fed. Rep. 598."

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 543
200 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

D. G. H. & M. R. R. Co. v. Int. Corn. Com., 74 Fed. Rep. 803;
Int. Coin. Coin. v. D., L. & W. R. R. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 723;
East Tenn. &c. R. R. v. Int. Com. Com., 181 U. S. 1.
The facts found by the Commission were insufficient to
warrant its conclusions and orders and it is therefore evident
that the Commission erred in applying the law to the case before them. L. & N. R. R. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 674-676.
The evidence in the lower court showed that the conclusion
of the Commission concerning the adoption of the routing
provision in the joint tariff was erroneous and its order based
upon such conclusion is therefore invalid. The report of the
Commission shows that it misconstrued and misapplied sec. 6 in
holding that carriers could not impose as a condition for the
making of joint tariffs the right of the initial carrier in any
event to route shipments under such joint rates.
The supposed right of the shippers to route is neither recognized nor protected by the Interstate Commerce Law and therefore the assertion of such right to route in the initial carrier
contrary to the wishes of shippers is not "something done or
omitted to be done in violation of the provisions" of that law
or any other law cognizable by the Commission. Wannan v.
Scottish Central R. Co., 1 Nev. & MacN. 237; Bennett v. Maneklester, &c. Ry. Co., 6 C. B. (N. S.) 707.
The shipper is at liberty to ship under the joint tariffs and
the rates therein prescribed, or not, as he may please,-it is
always optional with him to do so. It is simply insisted that
where he does make a through shipment under a joint rate,
which is lower than the sum of the locals, he ship and accept
such lower rate upon the condition on which it is made by
the agreement of the carriers and thus offered him.
If he does not like this condition he is not obliged to accept
the same, but may ship at the sum of the locals, and the routes
or lines are just as continuous for shipment or carriage in the
one case as in the other.
The joint rate is the through rate where the initial carrier
routes, and the sum of the locals is also a through rate where

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

200 U. S.

the shipper routes. A through rate may be the one thing or
the other-a joint rate fixed by agreement of connecting carriers, or the sum of the locals. Opinion of Lord Esher, in
Didcot &c. Ry. Co. v. Great Western &c. Ry. Co., 10 Ry. &
Canal Traffic Cas. 5.
The power of the Commission in respect to such joint tariffs
is very clearly defined in the statute. It has no power to
prescribe what shall or shall not be contained in the joint
agreements, nor what the provisions thereof shall be. Interstate Com. Com. v. Railway Company, 167 U. S. 504, 505.
There is a marked difference between this law which intentionally omitted giving the Commission power to make
provisions concerning joint tariff rates, and the Minnesota
statute which invested the Railroad Commission of that State
with specific power over such tariffs, and which was considered
by this court in Minneapolis &c. Ry. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S.
257.
With the exception of requiring joint agreements to be filed
and published, the law leaves the carriers as free as they were
at common law to determine the terms and conditions of such
joint contracts. This view was taken by ir. Justice Jackson
in Kentucky Bridge Co. v. L. & N. Ry. Co., 37 Fed. Rep. 629.
There ought to be a clear authority found in the statute for
depriving the carrier of this important right before the authority is exercised, for when questions of that nature have
to be solved, a great variety of complex considerations Ull
present themselves, some of which can neither be foreseen nor
stated. Little Rock &c. R. R. Co. v. St. Louis &c. Ry. Co.,
63 Fed. Rep. 780; Interstate Com. Corn. v. B. & 0. R. R. Co.,
43 Fed. Rep. 37 (Mr. Justice Jackson), approved in Cincinnati
&c. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Com. Com., 162 U. S. 197. See also
Int. Com. Com. v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 74 Fed. Rep.
723; Int. Com. Com. v. Western & A. R. Co., 93 Fed. Rep. 91;
Int. Com. Com. v. Western & A. R. Co., 88 Fed. Rep. 196;
Nicholson v. Great Western Ry. Co., 7 C. B. (N. S.) 755.
At common law the appellants could route t1 rougli freight

6UUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 545
200 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

beyond their own terminals and they have not been deprived
of such right by the Interstate Commerce Act.
The principle is that a carrier when it agrees to transport
freight beyond its own lines does so not as a common carrier,
but under an independent contract governed by the same rules
that any contract is controlled by. Under the common law,
therefore, it is clearly open to a carrier, which has contracted
to carry beyond its own lines, to select the agency through
which to perform the contract made by it with the shipper.
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. R. Co. v. Denver & New
Orleans R. R. Co., 110 U. S. 667; Louisville &c. R. R. Co. v.
West Coast Stores Co., 198 U. S. 483; Snow v. I. B. & W. R.
Co., 109 Indiana, 422, 425; C. I. & L. R. Co. v. Woodward,
72 N. E. Rep. 558 (Supreme Court of Indiana, 1904); White
v. Ashton, 51 N. Y. 280, 284; Hinckley v. N. Y. C. & H. R.
Co., 56 N. Y. 429; Indiana R. R. v. Remy, 13 Indiana, 518;
Patten v. U. P. R. R., 29 Fed. Rep. 591; Post v. Southern Ry.
Co., 103 Tennessee, 220; Lowe v. Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co.
(S. C.), 41 S. E. Rep. 297.
Neither the Commission nor the court could make a different agreement or contract for these carriers than the one made
by such carriers and the attempt of the Commission to keep
in force the joint rate and strike out the condition or consideration therefor would be equivalent to making a new agreement for the parties which they did not desire to make. Little
Rock &c. R. R. v. St. Louis &c. R. R., 63 Fed. Rep. 779, 780;
Southern Pacifie Co. v. C. F. & I. Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 779, 786;
Little Rock &c. R. R. v. St. Louis &c. R. R., 41 Fed. Rep. 559;
Pullman Car Co. v. Mo. Pac. Ry., 115 U. S. 587; A., T. &
S. F. Ry. v. D. & N. 0. R. R., 110 U. S. 682, 683; Express
Cases, 117 U. S. 1, 29.
Any interference with the supposed right of a shipper to
divert his shipment while in transit would not be in violation
of the Interstate Commerce Law. Diversion of this traffic, as
practiced by the shippers is merely a privilege or concession
granted by the carriers, but to which the shipper is not enVOL CC-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Argument for Appellants.

200 U. S.

titled as a matter of right. Ellis v. Willard, 9 N. Y. 529;
Violett v. Stettinius, 5 Cranch. (C. C.) 559; S. C., 28 Fed. Cas.
No. 16,953; Braithwaitev. Power, 48 N. W. Rep. 354; Hutchinson on Carriers, 2d ed., § 444a.
Section 5 of the Interstate Commerce Act does not prohibit
a mere division of traffic between connecting lines, even if
competitive. It only concerns agreements for a division of
receipts or earnings which are to be combined or pooled and
afterwards distributed upon an agreed proportion or ratio.
Sec. 5 Interstate Commerce Law; United States v. TransMissouri FreightAssociation, 58 Fed. Rep. 65.
To justify a finding of undue preference either as between
shippers or traffic it must be shown that they come in competition with each other so that injury results to the one by reason of the preference given the other. Int. Com. Com. v.
B. & 0. R. R., 43 Fed. Rep. 37; United States v. C. & N. W.
Ry., 127 Fed. Rep. 785; Hozier v. Caledonian Ry., I Nev.
& MacN. 27; Int. Com. Com. v. B. & 0. R. R., 145 U. S. 282,
283, 284; Nicholson v. Great Western Ry., 1 Nev. & MacN.
150; Lees et al. v. Lanashire &c. R. R., 1 Nev. & MacN. 352,
366; Nicholson et al. v. Great Western Ry., 1 Nev. & MacN.
121; 1 Railway and Canal Traffic, Boyle & Waghorn, 158,
159; Phipps et al. v. London & N. W. R. R., Law. Rep., Q. B.
Div., 1893, vol. 2, p. 236.
The order of the Commission is too broad to be supported
upon the ground that an undue preference might be made by
the carrier or upon the ground that the routing provision was
adopted to effectuate a division of traffic between connecting
carriers. The order is not responsive to or confined to any
findings in the case upon the points stated in the report of
the Commission and is therefore unlawful. D. G. H. & M.
R. R. v. Int. Com. Com., 74 Fed. Rep. 803, 840, 841; East
Tenn. R. R. v. Int. Com. Com.,-181 U. S. 1, 23, 26. It is unlawful because legislative in its nature. It is not confined in
favor of the complainants nor to the case before the. Commission but it is intended generally to control the conduct

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COA. 547
200 U. S.

Argument for the Commission.

of the carriers in all future cases and controversies and is
such an order as the Commission has no authority to make.
Int. Com. Com. v. C., N. 0. &c. R. R., 76 Fed. Rep. 184; Farmers' L. & T. Co. v. Nor. Pac. R. R., 83 Fed. Rep. 268; Int.
Com. Com. v. Radway Co., 167 U. S. 501; Int. Com. Com. v.
Alabama &c. R. R., 168 U. S. 161, 162; Texas & Pac. R. B.
v. Int. Com. Com., 162 U. S. 216.
The order was invalid because the connecting carriers were
not made parties to the proceedings before the Commission
and the Commission had no power to adjudicate the provision in the joint tariff agreement to be invalid without
having before it the connecting carriers who were parties to
that agreement and giving them an opportunity to be heard
thereon. A court of equity could not entertain jurisdiction
in such a contingency, neither could the Commission make
an adjudication or order declaring invalid the joint tariff
agreement and thus affecting rights of parties who were not
before the Commission. California v. So. Pac. Co., 157 U. S.
229, 249, 251; United States v. Nor. Pac. R. R. Co., 134 Fed.
Rep. 715 (C. C. A., 8th Circuit); Minnesota v. Nor. See. Co.,
184 U. S. 199; Cons. Water Co. v. City of San Diego, 93 Fed.
Rep. 849, 852; Western N. Y. R. R. v. Penn. Refg. Co., 137
Fed. Rep. 358.
Mr. Joseph H. Call, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, and Mr. Llevellyn A. Shaver, Solicitor for the Interstate Commerce Commission, for the Commission:
This case is not within the rule of the common law.
The defendants base their alleged right to make this rule
upon the right of routing as they claim it exists at common
law, and contend that at common law the right was absolutely
in the carrier to select his own route, his own instrument, his
own agent, in shipping beyond his own line.
This is not true absolutely. It is only true where the initial
carrier assumes the common law liability of a common carrier
beyond its own line and on the lines of its connections. At

OCTOBER TERMI, 1905.
Argument for the Commission.

200 U. S.

common law a common carrier is in the nature of an insurer
against damage or loss of goods during the carriage on its own
line from any cause except the act of God or the public enemy.
2 Redfield, Law of Railways, 6; Chitty on Contracts, 6th
Am. ed., 181. And the common law rule giving the initial
carrier the right to route the traffic beyond its own line only
applies where the initial carrier practically extends its own
line and becomes a common carrier with common law liability
over the entire route. The cases cited by counsel for defendants are of that character. See Atchison &c. R. R. Co.
v. Denver & N. 0. R. R. Co., 110 U. S. 667, 680.
A further distinction between the case at bar and the cases
cited in behalf of the defendants is the fact that the case at
bar is controlled by the provisions of the act to regulate commerce.
In the opinion in Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. R. Co.
v. Denver & New Orleans R. R. Co., 110 U. S. 667, this court
recognizes that even where a carrier has contracted to carry
beyond his own line, and therefore has the right at common
law to select the route, this right only exists in the "absence
of statutory regulations to the contrary "-the language of
this court being that "if he (the carrier) contracts to go beyond his own line, he may in the absence of statutory regulations to the contrary, determine for himself what agencies
he will employ."
The routing rule of defendants is inconsistent with and contrary to the spirit, if not the letter, of section 6 of the Commerce Act.
The routing rule gives an undue preference and subjects
to an undue prejudice in violation of section 3 of the act to
regulate commerce.
Preferences or prejudices may be in respect to rates or routing or facilities or any other matter as to which a preference
can be given or a prejudice inflicted, and therefore the statute,
in order to cover every form of preference or prejudice, uses
the all-embracing words "in any respect whatsoever."

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COA. 549
200 U. S.

Argument for the Commiission.

The connections of the defendants and the lines established
by them beyond their own lines differ as to desirability. Some
of these connections are better built, better managed and
operated, and more reliable financially than others, and some
of the lines are shorter and freer from risk than others and
more desirable in other particulars. Hence, while the rate
by all is the same, there is a choice between them, and the
shippers of all traffic except citrus fruit are allowed to avail
themselves of this choice. The citrus-fruit traffic is the only
kind of freight as to which the defendants deny to shippers
the right of choice of route. This clearly gives to other traffic
and the shippers thereof an undue preference, and subjects
citrus fruit to an undue prejudice.
The defendants concede to shippers of citrus fruit the right
to ship over the route of their choice, but if it happens not to
be the route of the defendants' choice they require the shippers
to pay for the right; in other words, to pay a rate which is the
sum of the locals of the several carriers composing the through
line, this sum of the locals being much higher than the regularly established and published rate filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Under this regulation the shipper of citrus fruit who chooses
a route other than that selected by the initial carrier pays a
higher rate than the shipper of the same kind and quantity
of citrus fruit between the same termini for whom the carrier
has selected the route in question. In both cases the carrier's
risk and service are precisely the same and the traffic of both
shippers may be on the same train, but a higher rate is exacted
from the one than from the other.
This results in violation of §§ 1, 2, 5 and 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act and also §§ 1 and 7 of the anti-trust act.
Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512; King v. Railroad Company, 4 1. C. C. R. 262; Augusta Southern R. R. Co. v. Wrightsville & Tennville R. R. Co., 74 Fed. Rep. 527; Minneapolis
& St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 262; Chicago &c.
R. R. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167; United States v. Trans-

OCTOBER TERI, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

Missouri Freight Assn., 166 U. S. 290; Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375.
The routing rule is essential to and adopted and used for
the purpose of carrying out a pooling or division of traffic
arrangement between the defendants; it is therefore unlawful
"
under section 5 of the act to regulate commerce.
It is no excuse for one violation of law that it incidentally
puts a stop to another.
Without the power of routing the traffic could not be pooled.
If shippers route the traffic it will necessarily render pooling
by the carriers impracticable. Port v. Southern Railroad Co.,
103 Tennessee, 220, distinguished.
Objection to want of other parties was waived by failure
to plead their names and show necessity of joining. Carey v.
Brown, 92 U. S. 171, 173; Florence Machine Co. v. Singer, 8
Blatch. 113; S. C., Fed. Cases No. 4,881; Sheffield v. Newman,
77 Fed. Rep. 787, 791 (C. C. A.); Equity Rules, 52, 53.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAN, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Although there are separate proceedings in these various
cases, the question arising in all is identical and the cases will
hereafter be spoken of as if there were but one proceeding
before the court. The single question presented is, has the
carrier that takes the fruit from the shipper in California the
right, under the facts herein, to insist upon the rule permitting
such carrier to route the freight at the time it is received from
the shipper?
The Commission has decided that the carrier has not the
right, and that the rule denies to shippers the use of their
transportation facilities, which such shippers are entitled to,
and that in its application, by the initial carriers to the fruit
traffic, the shippers are subjected to undue, unjust and unreasonable prejudice and disadvantage, and the carriers are
given an undue and unreasonable preference and advantage.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC o. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 551
200 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

If this be the necessary effect of the rule, it may be assumed
to be a violation of section 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
and the Commission, therefore, rightly ordered the carriers
to desist from observing it.
By section 16 of the act, the Circuit Court is given authority
to enforce "any lawful order or requirement of the Commission." If the order be not a lawful one, the court is without
power to enforce it. Whether or not such order was lawful
is the matter to be determined.
The Commission does not find that any contract existed
between the initial carrier and its eastern connections to bill
the fruit according to certain proportions among the connecting railroads. The Commission said:
"The situation warrants the inference, however, that these
two initial carriers or systems, connecting with other carriers
at various points, and they in turn connecting with numerous
other carriers, as shown by the tariff, are able by acting in
concert, and routing as they see fit, to only send traffic over
the roads of such carriers as fulfilled an agreement to refrain
from making any rate concession to the shippers, and some influence of like character could doubtless be exerted by them
upon the car lines which are also hereinafter referred to."
Such statement simply shows that if any eastern railroad,
with which an agreement for joint through rates existed,
should give rebates on the joint through rate tariff, thus
carrying freight below the rates agreed upon as the through
rate tariff, that road would not get the freight.
We see nothing in the initial carrier endeavoring to maintain the rates agreed upon as a through rate tariff, and thereby
preventing the payment of rebates, which in itself is a violation of the act. The act especially prohibits, in the sixth
section, any alteration of the rates agreed upon, in favor of
any person or persons. There is no finding that there has
in fact, as a result of the rule, been any discrimination or unjust
action as between the initial carriers and the shippers themselves, and there is no evidence that any was ever practiced.

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

In the examination of the rule it is well to bear in mind
the situation of the companies and the business at the time of
its adoption. It is fully set forth in the foregoing statement
of facts. The payment of the rebates was a shame and was
in truth unsatisfactory to all the railroads, besides being
plainly a violation of the Commerce Act.
We think there is nothing in the act which clearly prohibits
the roads from adopting the rule in question. The decision
turns upon the construction of a statute which at least does
not in terms prohibit.
In cases such as this a court is bound to consider the bearing
of the result of either construction upon the general purposes of
the act. In enacting the Commerce Act this court has stated
that the object of Congress was to facilitate and promote
commerce by the adoption of regulations to make charges for
transportation just and reasonable, and to forbid undue and
unreasonable preferences or discriminations. Texas & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 197.
The importance of the rule in this case, so far as the shipper
is concerned, is not so great as is its importance to the railroads
in preventing rebates. If the right of routing be looked at
alone, without any connection with the claimed right of diverting the freight, the rule itself would be generally of little
importance to the shipper. In all probability the freight gets
to its destination when routed by the carrier as early as if
routed by the shipper, and in that event the particular route
taken is not very important to the latter. The evidence before
the Circuit Court shows that the routing, when done by the
carrier, was fairly apportioned among the eastern connections,
having an eye to good service and expedition, and the roads
that the routing was done over were the best roads in the
country; the roads that have been eliminated were the roundabout roads; there were no roads that were insolvent, so far as
known by the witnesses. Now, as the fact appears that the
actual routing is generally conceded the shipper, and also his
request for a diversion allowed, there is nothing in the mere

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 553
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right of routing by the companies, separate from other facts,
of which the shipper can properly complain. The Commission
says it does not distinctly appear in testimony that a delivery
by a particular terminal road has been denied in any particular
case, yet the manifest evil results of an arbitrary application
of the rule must be considered in determining its legality. If
there is no such arbitrary application, we do not agree that
the rule itself is to be held illegal, because a violation of the
act may be committed, while the evidence is that none in
fact was committed. It does appear that the mere existence
of the right to route on the part of the company has ended
the practice of rebating. But the opportunity to obtain
rebates on the part of the shipper is surely not a ground for
action by the Commission or by the court. Of course, if in
attempting to cut off rebates there is a violation of the act,
the act must be followed, and that means of prohibiting them
must be abandoned. Courts may well look with some degree
of care before so construing a statute, which confessedly does
not in terms so provide, as to prohibit such a rule on the ground
that it would be a violation of the statute. We are of opinion
that the rule is not a violation thereof.
It is conceded that the different railroads forming a continuous line of road are free to adopt or refuse to adopt joint
through tariff rates. The Commerce Act recognizes such right
and provides for the filing, with the Commission, of the through
tariff rates, as agreed upon between the companies. The
whole question of joint through tariff rates, under the provisions of the act, is one of agreement between the companies,
and they may, or may not, enter into it, as they may think
their interests demand. And it is equally plain that an initial
carrier may agree upon joint through rates with one or several
connecting carriers, who between each other might be regarded
as competing roads.
It is also undoubted that the common carrier need not contract to carry beyond its own line, but may there delier to
the next succeeding carrier and thus end its responsibility,

OCTOBER TER1, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

and charge its local rate for the transportation. If it agree
to transport beyond its own line, it may do so by such lines
as it chooses. Atchison &c. R. R. Co. v. Denver &c. R. R. Co.,
110 U. S. 667; Louis ille & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Wet Coast
Naval Stores &c. Co., 198 U. S. 483. This right has not been
held to depend upon whether the original carrier agreed to be
liable for the default of the connecting carrier after the goods
are delivered to such connecting carrier. As the carrier is not
bound to make a through contract, it can do so upon such
terms as it may agree upon, at least so long as they are reasonable and do not otherwise violate the law. In this case
the initial carrier guarantees the through rate, but only on
condition that it has the routing. It was stated by the late
.Mr. Justice Jackson of this court, when Circuit Judge, in the
case of Texas &c. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 43 Fed. Rep. 37, as follows:
"Subject to the two leading prohibitions that their charges
shall not be unjust or unreasonable, and that they shall not
unjustly discriminate, so as to give undue preference or disadvantage to persons or traffic similarly circumstanced, the
act to regulate commerce leaves common carriers as they were
at the common law, free to make special contracts looking to
the increase of their business, to classify their traffic, to adjust
and apportion their rates so as to meet the necessities of commerce, and generally to manage their important interests upon
the same principles which are regarded as sound, and adopted
in other trades and pursuits."
This statement was approved by this court in Cincinnati&c.
R. R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 162 U. S. 184,
197.
Having this right to agree on a joint through tariff on terms
mutually satisfactory, we cannot find anything in the Commerce Act which forbids the agreement with such a condition
therein as to routing. It is said that the sixth section, properly
construed, prohibits such condition. We confess our inability
to find anything in that section which does so.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 555
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The fact that the rate, when agreed upon, must be filed with
the Commission and made public by the common carriers when
directed by the Commission, does not prevent the adoption
of an agreement for a through rate tariff with the condition
as stated. Nor does the provision granting power to the Commission to prescribe forms of schedules of rates, as provided
for in the sixth section, have any such effect. Where there is
an agreed through rate tariff, and as part of such agreement,
which is joined in by several railroads, the right to route cars
is reserved to the initial carrier, we do not think that the shipper, by virtue of the sixth section, has the right to ignore the
condition which is part of the agreement under which the
through rate is made and is guaranteed.
We cannot see that the rule violates the third section of
the act. All the facts referred to by the Commission are
nothing but statements as to how, under such a rule, there
might occur a violation of that section, but we find nothing
in the facts stated by the Commission, showing that such
violation had occurred. In truth, the companies did not
always even enforce the rule, still less did they discriminate
against shippers or in favor of carriers. On the contrary, the
Commission stated that "while the initial carriers do not
always route as requested by the shippers, they generally
comply with their request." The mere failure to do so does
not, however, prove a violation of the section.
The right to route is also complained of because the rule
confined it to the fruit business, and therefore it was, as contended, a discrimination against those engaged in it or against
the traffic itself. The transportation of this fruit is a special
business, large interests are involved in it, and particular pains
are taken to transport it as speedily as possible. With regard
to all other freight it has substantially nothing in common.
The cases are wholly unlike, and there has been no proof or
complaint as to rebates being given in connection with other
freight, and the witnesses for the railroad state if there were
any evidence or complaint of such rebates, the same rule as to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

routing would be immediately adopted. As has been said,
there is no pretense of discrimination under this rule between
the shippers of freight themselves. There seems to be unanimous agreement that all shippers are treated alike and are
granted the same privileges, and the routing is generally accorded them. It is the power to route, which rests with the
initial carrier, that really takes away the motive for a rebate
in the manner indicated, and, therefore, the granting of the
request of the shipper as to a particular route may be, and is,
generally conceded without danger that the rebate business
may be again practiced.
The important facts that control the situation are that the
carrier need not agree to carry beyond its own road, and may
agree upon joint through tariff rates or not, as seems best for
its own interests. Having these rights of contract the carrier
may make such terms as it pleases, at least so long as they are
reasonable and do not otherwise violate the law. We think
the routing rule is not unreasonable under the facts herein and
that it does not violate the third section of the act.
Because opportunities for the violation of the act may occur,
by reason of the rule, is no ground for holding as a matter of
law that violations must occur, and that the rule itself is therefore illegal. We are, consequently, unable to concur in the
view taken by the Commission that the rule violates the third
section of the act.
Upon the proceeding before the Circuit Court, that court
did not pass upon the question decided by the Commission,
but held that the routing rule agreed to between the initial
carrier and the various eastern companies, and forming a part
of the subsequent joint through tariffs which were filed with
the Commission, was in itself a contract or combination for
the pooling of freights.
The defendants object that the Circuit Court had no authority to decree the enforcement of the order upon any other
ground than that taken by the Commission itself. We think
that the court was not confined to those grounds, and if it

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE C0OM. COM. 557
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

found the rule was, in itself, for any reason illegal as a violation of the act, the order might be valid and be a lawful order,
although the Commission gave a wrong reason for making it.
If it held that the rule to be a violation of one section, the
order to desist might be valid, if, instead of the section named
by the Commission, the court should find that the rule was a
violation of another section of the act. All the facts being
brought out before the Commission or the court, the court
could decide whether the order was a lawful one, without being
confined to the reasons stated by the Commission. We therefore look to see the ground taken by the Circuit Court.
That court found that the rule was adopted to uphold their
published rates, or in other words to maintain the rates on
the joint through tariff. Although, under the previous through
rate tariff, these rates had been secretly cut by the eastern
connections of the initial carriers, yet when the routing rule
was agreed to as part of the through rate tariff these rebates
ceased. Hence, as the court said, the purpose of the rule was
undoubtedly to maintain the through rate tariff, and that it
was effectual. But the court held, as a result, that this routing provision, being part of the through rate tariff, agreed to
by the various eastern roads, made a contract among those
roads for the pooling of freights on competing railroads within
the meaning of section 5 of the Commerce Act. It held that
it was not necessary in order to form a pool, in violation of
that section, that the contract or agreement should fix the
percentages of freight the several railroads were to receive,
or that the railroads should know in advance what the percentages should be; that it was sufficient to constitute a pool
if the contract or agreement provided for special means or
agencies for apportioning freights, which would destroy the
rivalry which would otherwise exist between the competing
railroads; and an agreement by which the apportionment was
left to the will of the initial carrier accomplished that purpose
as effectually as though definite percentages were fixed in the
contract; that defendants' plan to maintain through rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

through the operation of the routing rule necessarily destroyed
competition, and the adoption of the routing rule put the
shippers in a position where their patronage could not possibly
be competed for by the defendants' eastern connections.
Thus the mere fact that the initial carrier was granted by
this through tariff agreement the right to route the freight
was held to result in the formation of a pool, in violation of
the fifth section of the act. There was no other agreement
proved in the case. It is stated by the Commission that
the shipments are forwarded by the initial carrier so as to give
certain percentages of the traffic to connecting lines. At the
same time the Commission finds that initial carriers 'generally
comply with the requests of the shippers to route the freight
as desired. The substance of the report of the Commission
is, therefore, that there is a certain percentage of the traffic
given the connecting carriers when there is no request for
routing given by the shippers. It amounts to the giving of
fair treatment to the connecting carriers. It is true the Commission calls this a tonnag'e pool between the connecting
carriers, to which the initial carriers give effect by their routing
arrangement, and that its object was not so much to prevent
rebates, which was but an incident, as to effect the tonnage
division. We are of opinion, however, that the evidence is
substantially one way, and that is that the arrangement for
routing was to break up rebating, and that it has been accomplished. The evidence before the Circuit Court was to the
effect that there was no agreement whatever with the eastern
connections that any of them should have any particular
proportion of the freight, but the eastern roads entered into
the routing agreement because they were satisfied that it
would be better than the then present practice of rebating,
and they thought that they would get a fair share of the business, or, in other words, would be fairly treated by the initial
carriers, who gave them to understand that they would be so
treated. The tonnage pool was, as the witnesses said, a myth,
and it was testified to that there was not one of the eastern

SOUTHERN PACIFIC v. INTERSTATE COM. COM. 559
200 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

companies that knew what percentage of the whole business
that company secured. They simply knew that the through
rates were maintained under the operation of the routing
agreement and that rebating ceased, and they were satisfied
with the manner of their treatment by the initial carrier.
The Circuit Court, in order to arrive at its result, necessarily
treated the connecting carriers as rival and competing transportation lines for this freight, and assumed that between these
lines there would exist, but for the routing agreement, a competition for the fruit transportation which could not be extinguished by any agreement as to routing, as a condition for
making through tariff rates; that as competition was destroyed
by this rule, it was idle to say that such result was not intended
by the defendant, and so it was held that the carrying out of
the routing agreement violated the act.
We think these various roads were really not competing
roads within the meaning of the fifth section of the Connerce
Act, when the facts are carefully examined. That act recognizes the right of the carriers to agree upon and provides for
the publication of joint through tariff rates between continuous
roads, on such terms as the roads may choose to make, provided, of course, the rates are reasonable and no discrimination, or other violation of the act is practiced. The initial
carrier did not, on its line, reach the eastern markets, but it
reached various connecting railroads which did reach those
markets. The initial carrier had the right to enter into an
agreement for joint through rates, with all or any one of these
connecting companies, though such companies were competing ones among themselves. And the agreements could be
made upon such terms as the various companies might think
expedient, provided they were not in violation of any other
provision of the act.
Prior to the adoption of the routing rule these connecting
railroads were already acting under a through rate tariff which
continued up to the tinie when the agreement for the routing
was adopted. When so acting it was no longer possible to

OCTOBER TERM, 1905.
Opinion of the Court.

200 U. S.

compete with each other as to rates (and it is upon the rebates
as to rates that this whole controversy is founded), provided
the companies fulfilled their joint rate tariff agreements. The
only way the rate competition could exist under the through
rate tariff was by violating the law. This, unfortunately, was
habitually done, and during that time the competition consisted in a rivalry between these roads, as to which would be
the greatest violator of the law by giving the greatest rebates.
In truth, the only way in which these connecting lines could
legally become competing railroads for this California fruit
trade would be in the absence of all joint tariff rate agreements.
The moment they made such agreements, and carried them
out, rate competition would cease.
All that would be needed for the total suppression of rate
competition among the connecting railroads would be the
honest fulfillment of their agreement as to joint through rates.
And just here is where they failed and where they violated
their agreement and the law by granting rebates, or, in other
words, by competing, as to rates, for the freight in violation
of the joint rates. In such case we do not see any violation
of the pooling section of the act, by putting in the agreement
for joint through rates the provision for routing by the initial
carrier. It achieved its purpose and stopped rebating, although
it thereby also stopped rate competition which, in the presence
of the through rate tariff, was already illegal. The railroads
are no longer rate competing roads after the adoption of a
through rate tariff by them, and they have no right to privately
reduce their rates.
Now, while the most important, if not the only, effect of the
routing agreement is to take away this rebating practice, and
to hold all parties to that agreement as part of the joint through
rate tariff, we think no case is made out of a violation of the
pooling provision in the fifth section of the act, even where
the initial carrier promises fair treatment to the connecting
roads, and carries out such promises.
We must remember the general purpose of the act which is,

C. B. & Q. RAILWAY v. DRAINAGE COMIM'RS.

561

Syllabus.

200 U.S.

as has been said, to obtain fair treatment for the public from
the roads, and reasonable charges for the transportation of
freight and the honest performance of duty, with no improper
or unjust preference or discrimination. Under such circumstances, the court ought not to adopt such a strict and unnecessary construction of the act as thereby to prevent an
honest and otherwise perfectly legal attempt to maintain joint
through rates, by destroying one of the worst abuses known
in the transportation business. The effort to maintain the
published through joint tariff rates is entirely commendable.
We think that the agreement in question, upon its face,
does not violate any provision of the Commerce Act, and
there is no evidence in the case which shows that in fact there
has been any such violation.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case
remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed, etc.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON AND QUINCY RAILWAY
COMPANY v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS
ex rel. DRAINAGE COMIISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 157. Argued December 14, 1905.-Decided March 5, 1906.

The failure of the state court to pass on the Federal right or immunity
specially set up of record, is not conclusive, but this court will decide
the Federal question if the necessary effect of the judgment is to deny
a Federal right or immunity specially set up or claimed, and which, if
recognized and enforced, would require a judgment different from one
resting upon some ground of local or general law.
Under the laws of Illinois the draining of bodies of land so as to make them
fit for human habitation and cultivation, is a public purpose, to accomplish which the State may by appropriate agencies exert the general
3fL

