OCTOBER TERM. 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. SHARPNACK.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT'COURT FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 35.

Argued October 29, 1957.-Decided January 13, 1958.

The Assimilative Crimes Act of 1948, 18 U. S. C. § 13, is constitutional insofar as it makes applicable to a federal enclave a subsequently enacted criminal law of the State in which the enclave is
situated. Pp. 286-297.
Reversed and remanded.

Beatrice Rosenberg argued the cause for the United
States. With her on the brief were Solicitor General
Rankin, Warren Olney, III, then Assistant Attorney
General, and Leonard B. Sand.
Joel W. Westbrook argued the cause and filed a brief
for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The issue in this case is whether the Assimilative
Crimles Act of 1948, 18 U. S. C. § 13, is constitutional
insofar as it makes applicable to a federal enclave a subsequently. enacted criminal law of the State in which the
enclave is situated. For the reasons hereafter stated, we
hold that it'is constitutional.
A four-count indictment, in the United States District
Court for the Western District of Texas, charged the
appellee, S1)arpnack, with committing sex crimes involving two boys in violation of 18 U. S.. C. § 13, and Arts.
535b and 535c of Vernon's Texas ]Venal Code, 1952. The
offenses were charged to have been committed in 1955 at
the Randolph Air Force Base, a federal enclave in Texas.

UNITED STATES v. SHARPNACK.
286

Opinion of the Court.

Articles 505b and 535c had been enacted in 1950 and, at
the time of the commission of the alleged offenses, were in
force throughout the State. Also, since 1948, the Federal
Assimilative Crimes Act has provided that, within such
an enclave, acts not punishable by any enactment of Congress are punishable by the then effective laws of the
State in which the enclave is situated.' Nevertheless,
upon motion of Sharpnack, the District Court, in. an
unreported order, dismissed the indictment "for the reason that Congress may not legislatively assimilate and
adopt criminal statutes of a state which are enacted by
the state subsequent to the enactment of the. Federal
Assimilative Statute." 2 The United States appealed to
this Court under 18 U. S. C. § 3731, and we noted probable
jurisdiction. 352 U. S.962.
The 1948 Assimilative Crimes Act was enacted as
part of the Revised Criminal Code of the United States
and reads as follows:
"§ 13. Laws of States -adopted for areas within

Federal jurisdiction.
"Whoever within or upon any of the places now
existing or hereafter reserved or acquired as proThere is no contention that the acts here charged were punishable
under any enactment-of Congress other than by virtue of the Assimilative Crimes Act, and there is no contention that Randolph Air
Force Base is not a federal enclave subject to 18 U. S. C. § 13.
2 The order also included the following paragraph:

"It is further the opinion of this Court that Section 13, Title 18,
United States Code, enacted in 1948, wherein it assimilates and
adopts said criminal statutes enacted by the state subsequent to
the enactment of said section, to-wit: Articles 535 (b) and 535 (c)
of the Texas Penal Statutes, enacted in 1950, upon which all four
counts of this indictment are predicated, is a delegation of Congress'
legislative authority to the states in violation of the Constitution of
the.United States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

vided in section 7 3 of this title, is guilty of any act
or omission which, although not made punishable by
any enactment of Congress, would be punishable if
committed or omitted within the jurisdiction of the
State, Territory, Possession, or District in which such
place is situated, by the laws thereof in force at the
time of such act or omission, shall be guilty of a like
offense and subject to A like punishment." 18
U. S. C.
In the absence of restriction in the cessions of the
respective enclaves to the United States, the power of
Congress to exercise legislative jurisdiction over them is
clearly stated in Article I, § 8, cl. 17, and Article IV, § 3,
cl. 2, of the Constitution." See Collins v. Yosemite Park
Co., 304 U. S. 518. The first Federal Crimes Act, enacted
in 1790, 1 Stat. 112. defined a number of federal crimes
and referred to federal enclaves. The need for dealing

I Section

7 contains the following provision:

"Tile term 'special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the
United States,' as used in this title, includes:
"(3) Any lands reserved or acquired for the use of the United
States, and under the exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction thereof,*
or any place purchased or otherwise acquired by the United States.
by consent of the legislature of the State in which the same shall be,
for the erection of a fort, magazine, arsenal, dockyard, or other
needful building." 18 U. S. C.
4

"Article. I.

"Section. S. The Congress.shall have Power . . .
"To exercise exclusive Legislation. in all Cases whatsoever, over
such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of Particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the
Seat of the Government of the United States, and to exercise like
Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature

UNITED STATES v. SHARPNACK.
286

Opinion of the Court.

more extensively with criminal offenses in the enclaves
was evident, and one natural solution was to adopt for
each enclave the offenses made punishable by the State
in which it was situated. See United States v. Press
Publishing Co., 219 U. S. 1, 9-13. Initially there was
room for a difference of opinibn as to the desirability of

doing this by blanket legislation, rather than by a code
enumerating and defining specific offenses applicable to
the enclaves. Congress made its initial decision on this

point i.n 1825 by adopting for otherwise undefined offenses
the policy of general conformity to local law. On
repeated occasions thereafter Congress has confirmed that
policy by enacting an unbroken series of Assimilative
Crimes Acts. During. the same period, Congress has
recognized a slowly increasing number of federal crimes

in the field of major offenses by enacting for the enclave;
specific criminal statutes which have defined those crimes

and, to that extent, have excluded the state laws from
that field.'
of the State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts,
Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings ....
"Article. TV
"Section. 3 ...
"The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful
Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property
belonging to the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall
be so construed as to Prejudice any Claims of the United States,
or of any particular State." U. S. Const.
For example, the following 'offenses committed within federal
enclaves are now made criminal by such enactments of Congress:
arson, 18 U. S. C. §81; assault, 18 U. S. C. § 113; maiming, 18
U. S. C. § 114; larceny, 18 U. S. C. § 661; receiving stolen property,
18 U. S. C. § 662; false pretenses "upon any waters or vessel within
the pecial maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States,"
18 U. S. C. § 1025; murder, 18 U. S. C. § 1111; manslaughter, 18

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

In the Act of 1825, sponsored by Daniel Webster in
the House of Representatives, Congress expressly adopted
the fundamental policy of conformity to local law.6
That Act provided the basis from which has grown the
Assimilative Crimes Act now before us. Congress thereby
made it clear that, with the exception of the enlarged list
of offenses specifically proscribed by it, the federal offenses
in each enclave were to be identical with those proscribed
by the State in which the enclave was situated. That
Act made no specific reference to subsequent repeals or
amendments by the State of any assimilated laws. It
also made no specific reference to new offenses that might
be added by the State after the enactment of the
Assimilative Crimes Act.
In 1831. there was certified by a Circuit Court to this
Court in United States v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141, the concrete
question whether, under the Assimilative Crimes Act of
1825, a statute enacted in 1829 by the State of New York,
defining a new offense to be known as burglary in the
third degree, was applicable to the federal enclave at
West Point. The question was submitted without argument and this Court's. answer is reported in full as
follows:
"Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL stated it to be the
opinion of the Court, that the third section of the
U. S. C. § 1112; attempted murder or manslaughter, 18 IT. S. C.
§ 1113; malicious mischief, 18 U. S. C. § 1363; rape, IS U. S. C.
§ 2031; carnal knowledge, 18 U. S. C. § 2032; and robbery, 18 U. S. C.

§ 2111.
6"SEc. 3.... if any offence shall be committed in any of the
places aforesaid, the punishment of which offence is not specially
provided for by any law of the United States, such offence shall,
upon a conviction in any. court of the United States having cognisance
thereof, be liable to, and receive the same punishment as the laws
of the state in which such fort, dock-yard, navy-yard, arsenal,
armory, or magazine, or other place, ceded as aforesaid, is situated,
provide for the like offence when committed within the body of any
county. of such state." 4 Stat. 115.

UNITED STATES v. SHARPNACK.
286

Opinion of the Court.

act of Congress, entitled 'an act more effectually to
provide for the punishment of certain crimes against
the United States, and for other purposes,' passed
March 3, 1825, is to be limited to the laws of the
several states in force at the time of its enactment.
This was ordered to be certified to the Circuit Court
for the southern district of New York." Id., at 142.
There is nothing in that answer or in the report of the
case to show that the issue was decided as anything
more than one of statutory construction falling within'
the doctrine calling for the narrow construction of a penal
statute. So interpreted, the decision did not reach the
issue that is before us. It did, however, carry a fair
implication that the Act of 1825 was constitutional
insofaf!as it made applicable to enclaves the criminal laws
'in force in the respective States at the time of the enactment of the Assimilative Crimes Act. This Court later
so held in Franklinv. United States, 216 U. S. 559.
Due to the limitation of the Assimilative Crimes Act
of 1825 to state laws in force at the time of its own enactment, the Act gradually lost much of its effectiveness in
maintaining current conformity with state criminal laws.
This result has been well called one of static conformity.
To renew such conformity, Congress has enacted comparable Assimilative Crimes Acts in 1866, 14 Stat. 13; in
1874 as R. S. § 5391; in 1898,.30 Stat. 717; in 1909 as
§ 289 of the Criminal Code, 35 Stat. 1145, in 1933, 48
Stat. 152; in 1935, 49 Stat. 394; in 1940, 54 Stat. 234;
and finally in 1948 in the Revised Criminal Code as 18
U. S. C. § 13.
The above series of substantial re-enactments demonstrates a consistent congressional purpose to apply the
principle of conformity to state criminal laws in punishing most minor offenses committed within federal
enclaves. In the re-enactments of 1866, 1874, 1898 and
1909, the interpretation given the Act of 1825 by the Paul

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

case was made explicit by expressly limiting the assimilation to the state laws "now in force," or as the "laws of the
State . . . now provide . . . ." In the Acts of 1933,
1935 and 1940, Congress continued to prescribe assimilation to the state laws "in force" on specified recent dates,
and these three re-enactments also made the assimilation
conditional upon the state laws "remaining in force at
the time of the doing or omitting the doing of such act
or thing . . . ."
This helped to keep the federal law
current with the state law by reflecting future deletions
from the state laws as soon as made.
In 1948. coincidentally with its revision of the Criminal
Code of the United States, Congress finally adopted the
present language. This expressly limits the assimilation
to acts or omissions committed within a federal ehclave
ad "not made punishable by any enactment of Congress .... ." It further specifies that "Whoever . . . is
guilty of any act or omission which . ., would be punishable if committed or omitted within the jurisdiction
of the State . . .in which such place is situated, by the
laws thereof in force at the time of such act or omission,
shall be guilty of a like [federal] offense and subject to a
like punishment."
Emphasis supplied.) This assimilation applies whether the state laws are enacted before
or after the Federal Assimilative Crimes Act and at once
reflects every addition, repeal or amendment of a state
law. Recognizing its underlying policy of 123 years'
7 See H. R. Rep. No. 263, 73d Cong., 1st Sess.; 77 Cong. Rec.
5530-5532, 5920; and H. R. Rep. No. 1022, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
11The Reviser's Note to § 13 states the situation simply:
"The revised section omits the specification of any date as unnecessary in a revision, which speaks from the date of its enactment.
Such omission will not only make effective within Federal reservations,
the local State laws in force on the date of the enactment of the
revision, but will authorize the Federal courts to apply the same
measuring stick to such offenses as is applied in the adjoining State

UNITED STATES v. SHARPNACK.
286

Opinion of the Court.

standing, Congress has thus at last provided that within
each federal enclave, to the extent that offenses are not
pre-empted by congressional enactments, there shall be
complete current conformity with the criminal laws of the
respective States in which the enclaves are situated.
There is no doubt that Congress may validly adopt a
criminal code for each federal enclave. It certainly may
do so by drafting new laws or by copying laws defining the
criminal offenses in force throughout the State in which
the enclave is situated. As a practical matter, it has to
proceed largely on a wholesale -basis. Its reason for
adopting local -laws is not so much because Congress has
examined them individually as it is because the laws are
already in force throughout the State in which the enclave
is situated. The basic legislative decision made by Congress is its decision to conform the laws in the enclaves to
the local laws as to all offenses not punishable by any
enactment of Congress. Whether Congress sets forth the
assimilated laws in full or assimilates them by reference,
the result is as definite and as ascertainable as are the
state laws themselves.
Having the power to assimilate the state laws, Congress obviously has like power to renew such assimilation
annually or daily in order to keep the laws in the enclaves
under future changes of the State law and will make unnecessary
periodic pro forma amendments of this section to keep abreast of
changes of local laws. In other words, the revised section makes
applicable to offenses committed on such reservations, the law of the
place that would govern if the reservation had. not been ceded to
the United States." 18 U. S. C.
9We do not now pass upon the effect of the Assimilative Crimes
Act where an assimilated state law conflicts with a specific federal
criminal statute, cf. Williams v. United States, 327 U. S. 711, or with
a federal policy. Cf. Johnson v. Yellow Cab Co., 321 U. S. 383;
Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, 309 U. S.94; Hunt v. United States,
278 U. S.96; Air Terminal Services, Inc. v. Rentzel, 81 F. Supp.
611; Oktahoma City v. Sanders, 94 F. 2d 323.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

current with those in the States. That being so, we conclude that Congress is within its constitutional powers
and legislative discretion when, after 123 years of experience with the policy of conformity, it enacts that policy
in its most complete and accurate form. Rather than
being a delegation by Congress of its legislative authority
to the States, it is a deliberate continuing adoption by
Congress for federal enclaves of such unpre-empted
offenses and punishments as shall have been already put
in effect by the respective States for their own government. Congress retains power to exclude a particular
state law from the assimilative effect of the Act. This
procedure is a practical accommodation of the mechanics
of the legislative functions of State and Nation in the
field of police power whereit is especially appropriate to
make the federal regulation of local conduct conform to
that already established by the State. Cf. Stewart & Co.
v,Sadrakula, 309 U. S.94, 100-101.
Examples of uses made by. Congress of future state
legislative action in connection with the exercise. of
federal legislative, power are -numerous. The WebbKenyon Act of March 1, 1913, 37 Stat. 699, 700, 27
U. S. C. § 122, prohibited the shipment of intoxicating
liquors into a State to be used "in violation of any
law of such State . ... ." West Virginia subsequently
enacted a: prohibition law. This Court nevertheless,
upheld the applicability of the Federal Act as it assimilated that subsequent state statute.. Clark Distilling Co.
v. Western Maryland R. Co., 242 U. S.311,326. See.also,
Knickerbocker Ice- Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149,10 169
Stewart, supra, this Court voided a
statute which attempted to make state workmen's compensation laws
applicable to injuries wituin the federal admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction. *The basis of that holding, which we do not now re-examine, was that "the Constitution not only contemplated but actually
established" a "harmony and uniformity" of law throughout the
10In Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.

UNITED STATES v. SHARPNACK.
286

295

Opinion of the Court.

(Justice Holmes' dissent), and United States v. Hill, 248
U. S.420.
The Federal Black Bass Act, as amended, 61 Stat. 517,
66 Stat. 736, 16 U. S. C. § 852, prohibited the transportation of fish in interstate commerce contrary to the law of
the State from which it is transported. And see 18
U. S. C. § 43.
The Johnson Act, 64 Stat. 1134, 15 U. S. C. § 1172,
prohibiting the transportation of gambling devices in
interstate commerce, provides that a State may exempt
itself from. the Act. See Nilva v. United States, 212 F.
2d 115.11

In the less closely related field of civil law, the Federal
Tort Claims Act, 28 U. S. C. § 1346 (b), bases the liability
of the United States on "the law of the place where the
act or omission occurred."
The Social Security Act, as amended; 71 Stat. 519, 42
U. S. C. A. (1957, Cum. Ann. Pocket Pt.) § 416 (h)(1),
provides that an applicant shall be considered a husband
or wife of an insured individual "if the courts of the State
in which such insured individual is domiciled at the time
such applicant files an application . . . would find that
such applicant and such insured individual were validly
admiralty jurisdiction. Id., at 164. That statute was voided because
it was designed to "destroy" what was considered to be a constitutionally required uniformity. Ibid. In contrast, the statute now
before us is designed to effectuate a long-standing congressional
policy of conformity with local law.
11 The applicability of criminal provisions under the Connally Hot
Oil Act, 49 Stat. 30, 15 U. S. C. § 715, depends upon the adoption of
state conservation laws. See Humble Oil & Refining Co. v. United
States, 198 F. 2d 753.
Under the Fugitive from Justice Act, 18 U. S. C. § 1073, it is
criminal for a person to travel in interstate commerce to avoid
prosecution for specified crimes as defined "under the laws of the
place from which he flees .... " Cf. Heman8 v. United States, 163
F. 2d 228.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

married at the time such applicant files such application . .

. ."

(Emphasis supplied.)

The Bankruptcy Act, 52 Stat. 847, 11 U. S. C. § 24,
provides that it shall not affect the allowance of exemptions prescribed "by the State laws in force at the
time of the filing of the petition . . . ." See Hanover
National Bank v.Moyses, 186 U. S.181, 189-190.
Under 63 Stat. 25, 50 U. S. C. App. § 1894 (i)(1) and
(2), States were authorized to free certain local areas
from federal rent control either by passing local rent control legislation of their own, or by determining that
federal rent control was no longer necessary. See United
States v. Shoreline Cooperative Apartments, Inc., 338
U. S. 897, reversing, per curiam,.84 F. Supp. 660.
This Court also has held that Congress may delegate to
local legislative bodies broad jurisdiction over Territories
and ceded areas provided Congress retains, as it does here,
ample power to revise, alter and revoke the local legislation. District of Columbia v. Thompson Co., 346 U. S.
100, 106, 109-110; Christianson v. King County, 239
U. S.356; Hornbuckle v. Toombs, 18 Wall. 648, 655.12
12 Wayman.v. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1, 47-50, is not controlling.
In that co;e, Chief Justice Marshall stated that Congress could not
constitutionally delegate to state legislatures the power to adopt
future "rules of practice" and "modes of proceeding" which would
bind federal courts. In 1872, that decision was met by Congress in
the adoption of the Conformity Act, 17 Stat. 197, which prescribed:
"SEC. 5. That the practice, pleadings,' and forms and modes of
proceeding in other than equity and admiralty causes in the circuit
and district courts of the United States shall conform, as near as may
be, to the practick, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding
existing at the time in like causes in the courts of record of the State
within which such circuit or district courts are held, any rile of
court to the contrary notwithstanding ....
" (Emphasis supplied.)

While this Act was later restricted by interpretation, the validity of
its application to future state practice was generally accepted by the
courts. See Hart and Wechsler, The Federal Courts and the Federal

UNITED STATES v. SHARPNACK.
286

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

The application of the Assimilative Crimes Act to subsequently adopted state legislation, under the limitations
here prescribed, is a reasonable exercise of congressional
legislative power and discretion.'
Accordingly, the judgment of the District Court is reversed and the case is
remanded to it for further action consistent with this
opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR.

JUSTICE DouGLAS,

with whon

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
There are two provisions of the Constitution involved
in the present controversy. Article I, § 1 provides: "All
legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a
Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a
Senate and House of Representatives." A supplementary provision is that contained in Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2: "The
Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all
needful Rules And Regulations respecting the Territory
or other Property belonging to the United States . . . ."
It is, therefore, the Congress, and the Congress alone,
that has the power to make rules governing federal
enclaves. I suppose there would be no doubt, at least
after Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S.
579, that this rule-making power could not be exercised by
the President, let alone some federal agency such as the
Department of the Interior. The power to make laws
under which men are punished for crimes calls for as
serious a deliberation as the fashioning of rules for the
seizure of the industrial plants involved in the Youngstown case. Both call for the exercise of legislative judgSystem (1953), 581-586; Warren, Federal Process and State Legislation, 16 Va. L. Rev. 421, 557-570 (1930); Clark and Moore, A New
Federal Civil Procedure, 44 Yale L. J. 387, 401-411 (193).
13 See generally, Note, The Federal Assimilative Crimes Act, 70

Harv. L. Rev. 685 (1957).

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

355 U. S.

ment; and I do not see how that requirement can be
satisfied by delegating the authority to the President,
the Department of the Interior, or, as in this case, to the
States. The Court held in Schechter Poultry Corp. v.
United States, 295 U. S. 495, that the determination of
what constitutes "fair competition" may not be left with
the industry affected, subject to approval by the President. For the codes promulgated would have the standing of federal statutes. "But Congress cannot delegate
legislative power to the President to exercise an unfettered discretion to make whatever laws he thinks may be
needed or advisable for the rehabilitation and expansion
of trade or industry." Id., at 537-538. The codepmaking authority was held to be an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power. Id., at 542. "The Congress is
not permitted to abdicate or to transfer to others the
essential legislative functions with which it is...
vested." Id., at 529.
The vice in the Schechter case was not that the President was the one who reoeived the delegated authority,
but that the Congress had abdicated the lawmaking
function. The result should be the same whether the
lawmaking authority, constituted by Congress, is the
President or a State.
Of course Congress can adopt -as,federal laws the laws
of a State; and it has often done so. Even when it does
so without any enumeration of the laws, it "has acted
as definitely as if it had repeated the words" used by the
State, as Mr. Justice Holmes said in Knickerbocker Ice
Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S.149, 167. Also Congress could,
I think, adopt as federal law, governing an enclave, the
state law governing speeding as it may from time to time
be enacted. The Congress there determines what the
basic policy is. Leaving the details to be filled in by a
State is analogous to the scheme of delegated implementa-

UNITED STATES v. SHARPNACK.
286

DouGXAs, J., dissenting.

tion of congressionally adopted policies with which we are
familiar in the field of administrative law. But it is
Congress that must determine the policy, for that is the
essence of lawmaking. Under the scheme now approved
a State makes such federal law, applicable to the enclave,
as it likes, and that law becomes federal law, for the violation of which the citizen is sent to prison.
Here it is a sex crime on Which Congress has never
legislated. Tomorrow itmay be a biue law, a law governing usury, or even a law requiring segregation of the
races on buses and in restaurants. It may be a law that
could never command A majority in the Congress or that
in no sense reflected its will. It is no answer to say that:
the citizen would have a defense under the Fifth and
Sixth Amendments to unconstitutional applications of
these federal laws or the procedures under them. He is
entitled to the considered judgment of Congress whether
the law applied to him fits-the federal policy. That is
what federal lawmaking is. It is that policy which has led
the Court heretofore to limit these Assimilative Crimes
Acts to those state laws in force at the time of enactment
of the Federal Act. United States v. Paul, 6 Pet. 141.
And see Franklinv. United States, 216 U. S.559, 568-569.
There is some convenience in doing what the Court
allows today. Congress is saved the bother of enacting
new Assimilative Crimes Acts from time to time. Federal
laws grow like mushrooms without Congress passing a bill.
But convenience is not material to the constitutional
problem. With all due deference to those who are convinced the other way, I am forced to conclude that under
this Assimilative Crimes Act it is a State, not the Congress, that is exercising the legislative power under Art. I,
§ I of the Constitution and that is making the "needful
Rules and Regulations" envisioned by Art. IV, § 3, cl. 2.
That may not constitutionally be done.

