OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Per Curiam.

355 U. S.

ROSENBLOOM v. UNITED STATES.
ON

PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 451.

Decided November 25, 1957.

Certiorari granted.
In the circumstances of this case, the Court of Appeals erred in holding-that petitioner's notice of appeal from his conviction of a crime
was untimely. Therefore, its judgment is reversed and the case is
* remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
246 F. 2d 608, reversed and remanded.

Petitionet pro se.
Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney General
Rice and Joseph F. Goetten for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

The petition for a writ of certiorari is granted. The
Court of Appeals has held, without opinion, that pecitioner's notice-of appeal fromthe District Court, filed on
July 8, 1957, was untimely. The Government has conceded that the Clerk of the District Court did not mail
to petitioner or his attorney a notice of the entry of the
order of June 14 denying petitioner's motion for a new
trial and judgmefit of acquittal, as required by Rule
49 (c), Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. In our opini on the record in this case fails to show with sufficient
certainty that petitioner or his attorney had actual notice
of the entry of that order by reason of the proceedings.
which took place in the District Court on June 14.* Cf.
*The record shows the following:
"The COURT:
"Do you want some time for your client before he turns in?

"Mr. SHKw: Your Honor,

J was going to ask for some time in

ROSENBLOOM v. UNITED STATES.
80

BURTON, J., dissenting.

Huff v. United States, 192 F. 2d 911; Gonzalez v. United
States, 233 F. 2d 825, 827, reversed on other grounds, 352
U. S. 978. What transpired at those proceedings. is too
ambiguous to permit the conclusion that petitioner and his
attorney were not justified in believing that petitioner's
time to appeal would begin to run on July 8. In these
circumstances we think that the Court of Appeals erred
in holding that petitioner's notice of appeal was untimhely.
Rule 37 (a)(2), Fdd: Rules Crim. Proc.; see Carter v.
United States, 168 F. 2d 310. The judgment of the Court
of Appeals is reversed and the case is remanded to that
court for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BURTON,
concurs, dissenting.

with whom MR.

JUsTICE CLARK

Petitioner was present in open court with his attorney
at the time the court overruled his motion for a new trial.
He thus had actual notice of the denial of his motion and
was not entitled to rely upon an additional notice in writing from the clerk to the same effect., The colloquy
quoted by the court took place-later, "after cahing Other
motions in other cases." At that time this case "was
again called by the Judge and the proceedings as indicated in the transcript of the official Court resorter took
place.". Especially in the light of the :time interval
which to get his affairs straightened out, and within which to file
an appeal, should we so desire to do.
"The COURT: Very well. If-you file an appeal, of course, if you
apply for bond, I will tell you now that I will grant you bond. Be
permitted to go under the bond you are under now. How much time
do you want?
"Mr. SHAW: About two weeks, your Honor.

"The COURT: How about Monday, July 1st, or do you want it the
8th, the following Monday?
"Mr. SHAW: That will be all right.

"The COURT: Be given until July 8th.
"Mr. SHAW: Thank you."

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Per Curiam.

355 U.S.

between the denial of the motion and the colloquy quoted
in the opinion, I believe the Court of Appeals was justified in concluding that petitioner's counsel should have
understood that his motion had been denied on June 14.

IN RE LATIMER.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 147, Misc.

Decided November 25, 1957.

Appeal dismissed and certiorari denied.
Reported below: 11 Ill. 2d 327, 143 N. E. 2d 20.

.John L. Kilcullen for petitioner.
PER CURIAM.

The appeal is dismissed. Treating the papers whereon
the appeal was taken as a petition for writ of certiorari,
certiorari is denied.

