RATHBUN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

RATHBUN v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30. Argued October 29, 1957.-Decided December 9, 1957.
Contents of a communication overheard by police officers on a .regularly used telephone extension, with the consent of the person who
is both the subscriber to the extension and a party to the conversation, are admissible in a criminal trial in a federal court; because
such use of a regularly used telephone -extension does not involve
any "interception" of a telephone message, as Congress intende d
that word to be used in § 605 of the Federal Communications Act.
Pp. 107-111.
236-F. 2d 514, affirmed.

Thomas K. Hudson argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioner.
John F. Davis argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Rankin, Assistant Attorney General'Olney and Beatrice
Rosenberg.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WARREN

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This case concerns the issue of whether the contents
of a communication overheard on a regularly used tele-

phone extension with'the consent of one party to the conversationare admissible in federal court.1 -Petitioner was
convicted of violations of 18 U. S. C. § 875 (b)

and (c)

1 The grant of certiorari was limited to the following question, as
phrased by petitioner: "Is the listening in of third parties on an
extension telephone in an adjoining' room, without consent of the
sender, an interception of a telephone message, and the divulgence
of the con'tents of such conversation prohibited by statute, to wit
Sec. 605, Title 47, U. S. C. A." Implicit in this phra.ing of the
question is the fact that one party to the conversation did consent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

for transmitting an interstate communication which
threatened the life of one Sparks in order to obtain from
him a stock certificate which Sparks held as collateral for
a loan. On March 16, 1955, petitioner, who was in New
York, spoke by telephone with Sparks, who was in Pueblo,
Colorado. Anticipating another call from petitioner,
Sparks requested that members of the Pueblo police force
overhear the conversation. When petitioner phoned
Sparks in the early morning of March 17, two police
officers at Sparks' direction listened to the conversation
on a telephone extension in another room of the Sparks
home. This extension had not been installed there -just
for this purpose but was a regular connection, previously
placed and normally used. At the trial the police officers
testified over timely objection that during this conversation petitioner had threatened Sparks' life because he
would not surrender the certificate. Petitioner was convicted and the Court of Appeals affirmed. 236 F. 2d 514.
We granted certiorari. 352 U. S. 965.
Benanti v. United States, ante, p. 96, determined that
information obtained and divulged by state agents in
violation of Section 605 of the Federal Communications
Act ' is inadmissible in federal court. The pertinent
portion of Section 605 states:
"... no person not being authorized by the sender
shall intercept any communication and divulge or
publish the existence, contents, substance, purport,
effect, or meaning of such intercepted communicationto any person ...

.

Since there was a divulgence of the contents of a communication, the only issue on the facts before us is whether
there has been an unauthorized interception within the
meaning of Section 605.' The federal courts have split in
48 Stat. 1103, 47 U. S. C. § 605.
We do not decide the question of whether § 605 is violated where
a message is intercepted but not divulged since the police officers did
2

RATHBUN v. UNITED STATES.
107

Opinion of the Court.

their determination of this question. Some. courts have
held that the statute proscribes the use of an extension
telephone to allow someone to overhear a conversation
without the consent of both parties.4 Others have concluded that the statute is inapplicable where one party has
consented." We hold that Section 605was not violated in
the case before us because there has been no "interception" as Congress intended that the word be used. Every
statute must be interpreted in the light of reason and
common understanding to reach the results intended by
the legislature. CfL Holy :Trinity Church v. United
States, 143 U. S.457; American Security & Trust Co. v.
Commissioners, 224 U. S.491. That principle would be
violated if we attributed to Congress acceptance of the
results that would occur here from the position argued by
petitioner.
The telephone extension is a widely used instrument of
home and office,' yet with nothing to evidence congressional intent, petitioner argues that Congress meant to
divulge the contents of the overheard conversation when they testi-

fied in court. Cf. Benanti v. United States, ante, p. 96.
. United States v.;Polakoff, 112 F. 2d 888; James v. United States,
89 U. S. App. D. C. 201, 191 F. 2d 472; United States v. Hill, 149

F. Supp. 83; see Reitmeister v. Reitmeister, 162 F. 2d 691.
5 United States v. White, 228 F. 2d 832; Flandersv. United States,
222 F. 2d 163; United States v. Sullivan, 116 F. Supp. 480, affirmed,
95 U. S.App. D. C. 78, 219 F.,2d 760; United States v. Lewis, 87

F. Supp'. 970, reversed on other grounds, Billeci v. United States, 871
U. S. App. D. C. 274, 184 F. 2d 394; cf. Rayson v. United States,
238 F. 2d 160; United States v. Bookie, 229 F. 2d 130; "UnitedStates
Y.Pierce, 124 F. Supp. 264, affirmed, 224 F. 2d 281.
6 For example, in 1934 the Bell Telephone System, including affiliates, had 1,315,000 extension telephones out of a total of 13,378,000.
In .1956 the System had 8,465,000 extension.telephones out of a total
of 50,990,000. Exhibit 1364 of the Federal Communications Commission Special Telephone Investigation; Federal Communications
Commission, "Statistics of the Communications Industry in the
United States for the year ended December 31, 1956."

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
Opinion of the Court.

355 U. S.

place a severe restriction on its ordinary use by subscribers, denying them the right to allow a family member, an employee, a trusted friend, or even the police to
listen to a conversation to which a subscriber is a party.
Section 605 points to the opposite conclusion. Immediately following the portion quoted above, the statute
continues:
no person not being entitled thereto shall
receive or assist in receiving any interstate or foreign
communication by wire or radio and use the same or
any information therein contained for his own
benefit or for .the benefit of another. not entitled
thereto
The clear inference is that one entitled to receive the
communication may use it for his own benefit or have
another use it for him. The communication itself is not
privileged, and one party may not force the other to
secrecy merely by using a telephone. It has been conceded by those who believe the conduct here violates Section 605 that either party may record the conversation
and publish it.' The conduct of the party would differ
in no way if instead of repeating the message he held out
'See United States v. Polakof], 112 F. 2d 888, 889:
"We need not say that a man may never make a record of what
he hears on the telephone by having someone else' listen at an extension, or, as in the case at bar, even by allowing him to interpose a
recording machine. The receiver may certainly himself broadcast the
message as he pleases, and the sender will often give consent, express
or implied, to the interposition of a listener." (Emphasis added.)
Note also that the regulations of the Federal Comnmunications
Commission which control the recoiding of telephone conversations
presuppose that either party may record a conversation and declare
that tariff regulations of telephone companies which bar the use of
recording devices are unjust and unreasonable and so in violation
of § 201 of the Federal Communications Act. In the Matter of Use
of Recording Devices in Connection with Telephone Service, 11
F. C. C. 1033, 1053.

RATHBUN v. UNITED STATES.
107

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

his handset so that another could hear out of it. We see
no distinction between that sort of action and permitting
an outsider to use an extension telephone for the same
purpose.
The error in accepting petitioner's argument is brought
into sharper focus by the fact that Section 605 is penal in
nature, the first violation being punishable by a fine of
not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for a term
not exceeding one year, or both." For example, it follows from petitioner's argument that every secretary who
listens to a business conversation at her employer's direction in order to record it would be marked as a-potential
federal criminal. It is unreasonable to believe that Congress meant to extend criminal liability to conduct which
is wholly innocent and ordinary.
Common experience tells us that a call to a particular
telephone number may cause the bell to ring in more than
one ordinarily used instrument. Each party to a telephone conversation takes the risk that the other party
may have an extension telephone and may allow another
to overhear the conversation. When Such tikes place
there has been no violation*of any privacy of which the
parties may complain. Consequently, one element of
Section 605, interception, has not occurred.
Affirmed.

whom MR. JUSTICE DOUGjoins, dissenting.
Although this Court had, in Olmstead v. United States,
277 U. S. 438, decided that neither the Fourth Amendment nor the general judicial principles governing
criminal trials in United States courts barred evidence
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

LAS

8

48 Stat. 1100, 47 U. S. C. § 501. Additional violations are punish-

able by the same fine and not more than two years' imprisonment, or
both.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

355 U. S.

obtained through interception of telephone communications by law-enforcing officers without the consent of the
sender, the Congress a few years later provided that
"no person not being authorized by the sender shall
intercept any communication and divulge or publish
the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect, or
meaning of such intercepted communication to any
person .. " § 605, Federal Communications Act
of June 19, 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, 1104,47 U. S. C. § 605.
If, the judicial attitude that lies behind the phrase
"strict construction of a statute," i. e., in favor of an
accused, can have an emphatic illustration, it is found in
the two Nardone cases, in which the quoted provision of
§ 605 was first given effect by this Court. We there held
that the implications of that -section bar even the most
relevant and persuasive evidence obtained, without a
sender's authorization, through interception by law officers, and likewise bar independently secured evidence
obtained as a result of leads afforded by such interception.
Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S.379; 308 U. S. 338.
The whole point of the vigorous dissent in the first Nardone case was directed against literal application of the
phrase "no person" thereby "enabling the most depraved
criminals to further their criminal plans over the telephone, in the secure knowledge that even if these plans
involve kidnapping and murder, their telephone conversations can never be intercepted by officers of the law and
revealed in court." Mr. Justice Sutherland, dissenting in
Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S., at 385. The Court's
opinion gave a short and decisive answer: "We nevertheless face the fact that the plain words of § 605 forbid
anyone, unless authorized.by the sender, to intercept a
telephone message, and direct in equally clear language
that 'no.person' shall divulge or publish the message or its
substance. to 'any person.' " 302 U. S., at 382.

RATHBUN v. UNITED STATES.
107

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

In this case, petitioner's conviction was based on the
testimony of a police officer who listened in on a telephone
communication made by petitioner, and such listening-in
was not "authorized by the sender," to wit, the petitioner.
It is suggested that the interception, for such it was, in
the clear meaning of the term for carrying out its function-an intrusion by way of listening to the legally insulated transmission of thought between a speaker and a
hearer-does not fall within the prohibition of § 605,
because it was carried out by means of "a regularly used
telephone extension with the consent of one party." But,
surely, the availability of a "regularly used telephone
extension" does not make § 605 inoperative. The fact
that the Court relies on "the consent of one party" evidently implies that it would not be without the purview
of § 606 for a police officer to conceal himself in a room of
a house or a suite of offices having several "regularly used
telephone extensions" and surreptitiously to utilize such
an Itextension
to overhear telephone conversations.
is said that
the overhearing in this case was "with
the consent of one party." But the statute is not satisfied
with "the consent of one party." The statute says "no
person not being authorized by the sender." Since this
Court, in Nardone, read "no person" to mean no person,
it is even more incumbent to construe "sender" to mean
sender, as was the petitioner here, and not to read "sender"
to mean one of the parties to the communication, whether
sender or receiver. It is further suggested that Congress
must have been aware of the wide use of telephone extensions and the practice of listening-in on extensions. In
the first Nardone case this Court rejected the argument
that Congress gad knowledge of the employment of
federal agents "to tap wires in, aid of detection and
conviction of criminals." 302 U. S., at 381. But the
Court refused to qualify the rigorous policy of Congress
as expressed by it enactnment. And today, in Benanti v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1957.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

355 U. S.

United States, the Court rejects, and if I may say so
rightly, the. plausible contention that the well-known
legislative authorization of wire-tapping by some of the
States ought to be deemed to have qualified the strict
purpose of Congress.
It is suggested, however, that it is one of the accepted
modes of carrying on business in our time to have secretaries listen in on conversations by their principals. A
secretary may fairly be called the employer's alter ego.
And so, a secretary is fairly to be deemed as much of an
automatic instrument in the context of our problem as a
tape recorder. Surely a. police officer called in to facilitate the detection of crime is not such an alter ego. His
participation in telephone communications when not
authorized by the sender occupies precisely the same position that it occupied in the Olmstead case when this Court
sanctioned the practice., and in the Nardone cases where
this Court rigorously enforced the prohibition by Congress
of what theretofore was a lawful practice.
, Sharing the views expressed by Judge Learned Hand in
United States v. Polakoif, 112 F. 2d 888, and Reitmeister v. Reitmeister, 162 F. 2d 691, I would reverse the
judgment.

