OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

LEE

ET AL.

392 U. S.

V. FLORIDA.

CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL OF FLORIDA,
FOURTH DISTRICT.

No. 174.

Argued May 2, 1968.-Decided June 17, 1968.

A four-party telephone line was installed in petitioner Lee's house,
and shortly thereafter, by direction of the Orlando, Florida, police,
a telephone in a neighboring house was connected to the same
party line. The police attached equipment which permitted them
to hear and record all conversations on the party line without
lifmng the telephone receiver. Recordings of conversations were
introduced, over objection, at petitioners' trial for violation of
state lottery laws. Petitioners were convicted and the state
appellate court affirmed, saying "that there were no state or
federal statutes applicable in Florida which would make wiretapping illegal and inadmissible in evidence ...

"

Held:

1.' The conduct of the Orlando police clearly amounted to inter.ception of petitioners' communications within the meaning of § 605
of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, which prohibits the
interception and divulgence (conceded here) of any communication
'without the sender's authorization., Pp. 380-382.
2. The recordings of the illegally intercepted conversations were
not admissible in evidence in the Florida courts in view of the
express federal prohibition against divulgence of recordings so
procured. Schwartz v. Texas, 344 U. S. 199, overruled. Pp.
382-387.
191 So. 2d 84, reversed.

Edward R. Kirkland argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioners.
Wallace E. Allbritton, Assistant Attorney General of
Florida, argued the cause for respondent. With him on
the brief was Earl Faircloth,Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE STEWART

delivered the opinion of the

Court.,
.The three petitioner -Were convicted in a Florida trial

court for' violating the state lottery laws. Their con-

LEE v. FLORIDA.
378

-

Opinion of the Court.

victions were affirmed by a Florida district court of appeal,1 and the Supreme Court of Florida denied further
review. We granted certiorari to consider the application of § 605 of the Federal Communications Act of 1934,
48 Stat. 1103, 47 U. S. C. § 605, to the circumstances of
this case.2 That statute provides:
"[N]o. person not being authorized by the sender
shall intercept any communication and divulge . ..
the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect, or
meaning of such intercepted communication to any
person .

In the summer of 1963 petitioner Lee ordered the installation of a private telephone in the house where he
lived near Orlando, 'Florida. The local telephone company informed him that no private lines were available,
and he was given a 'telephone on a four-party line instead.
A week later, at the direction of the Orlando police department, the company connected a telephone in a neighboring house to the same party line.' The police attached to this telephone an automatic actuAtor, a tape
recorder, and a set of earphones. The equipment was
connected directly to the wall outlet in such a way that
the police could hear and record all conversations on the
party line without the necessity of lifting the receiver
on their telephone. This arrangement not only afforded
the police continuous access to all of Lee's outgoing and
incoming calls, but also eliminated the telltale "click"
that would otherwise have warned conversing parties
that someone else on the line had picked up a receiver.
,Lee
2 389

v. State, 191 So.2d 84.
U. S. 1033. Issues under the Fourth and .Fourteenth

Amendments were also presented in the petition for certiorari. We
do not reach those issues.
8
The record does not show how or why this house was made
available to the Orlando police.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

Further, the arrangement insured that noises in the house
occupied by the police would not be heard by anyone else
on the line. For more than a week the police used this
equipment to overhear and record telephone calls to and
from Lee's residence, including calls made to Lee by the
oher two petitioners from private as well as public
talephones.
At the petitioners' trial, several of these recordings were
introduced in evidence by the prosecution over objection
by defense counsel. In affirming the convictions, the
state appellate court said that "there were no state or
federal statutes applicable in Florida which would make
wiretapping illegal and inadmissible in evidence .... ,
We disagree. There clearly is a federal statute, applicable in Florida and every other State, that made
illdgal the conduct of the Orlando authorities in this
case. And that statute, we hold today, also made the
recordings of the petitioners' telephone conversations
inadmissible as evidence in the Florida court.
I.
Section 605 of the Federal Communications Act speaks,
not in terms of tapping a wire, but in terms of intercepting and divulging a communication. The State concedes
that the police "divulged" the petitioners' conversations
within the meaning of the statute. But, it argues, the
police cannot be deemed to have "intercepted" the
'191 So. 2d, at 85. The court went on to say that "wiretapping
is illegal in Florida" by reason of the Florida Constitution. However, the court found that what the police did in this case did not
amount to "wiretapping" within the scope of the state constitutional
prohibition. The court based its conclusions upon several previous
Florida eases: Perez v. State, 81 So. 2d 201; Williams v. State, 109
So. 2d 379; Griffith v. State, 111 So. 2d 282; Barber v. State, 172
So. 2d 857.

LEE v. FLORIDA.
378

Opinion of the Court.

telephone conversations, because people who use party
lines should realize that their conversations might be
overheard.
This is not a case, however, where the police merely
picked up the receiver on an ordinary party line, and we
need not decide whether § 605 would be applicable in
those circumstances. 5 For here the police did much
more. They deliberately arranged to have a telephone
connected to Lee's line without his knowledge, and they
altered that connection in such a way as to permit continuous surreptitious surveillance and recording of all
conversations on the line. What was done here was a
far cry from the police activity in Rathbun v. United
States, 355 U. S. 107, a case heavily relied upon by the
respondent. There we found no interception where "a
communication [is] overheard on a regularly used telephone extension with the consent of one party to the conversation," ibid., and where the "extension had not been
installed there just for this purpose but was a regular connection, previously placed and normally used." Id., at
108. We viewed that situation as though one of the
parties to the telephone conversation had simply "held
out his handset so that another could hear out of it."
Id., at 110-111. In the present case, by contrast, ther6
was neither '"the consent of one party" nor a "regularly
used" telephone "not . . . installed . . . just for [the]
purpose" of surveillance. The conduct of the Orlando
5

A party-line user's privacy is obviously vulnerable, but it does
not necessarily follow that his telephone conversations are completely
unprotected by § 605. In many areas of the country private telephone lines are not available; in other areas they are available
only at higher rates than party lines. There is nothing in the language or history of § 605 to indicate that Congress meant to afford
any less protection to those who, by virtue of geography or financial
,hardship, must use party-line telephones.

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

police, deliberately planned and carried out, clearly
amounted to interception of the petitioners' communications within -the meaning of § 605 of the Federal
Communications Act."
II.
'The remafi4ingquestion is whether the recordings that
the police obtained by intercepting the petitioners' telephone conversations were admissible in evidence in the
Florida trial court, notwithstanding the express prohibition of federal law against divulgence of recordings so
procured.
Section 605 was enacted as part of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, 48 Stat. 1103, six years
after the Court had said in Olmstead v. United States,
277 U. S. 438, 465, that "Congress may of course [legislate to] protect the secrecy of telephone messages by
making them, when intercepted, inadmissible in evidence .... ." In Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S. 379,
the Court was first called upon to decide whether § 605
had indeed served to render evidence of intercepted
communications inadmissible in a federal trial. In that
case the Government urged that "a construction be
given the seetion which, would exclude federal agents
since it is improbable Congress intended to hamper and
impede the activities of the government in the detection
and punishment of crime." 302 U. S., at 383. In reversing the judgment of conviction, the Court's answer
to that argument was unequivocal:
"[T]he plain words of § 605 forbid anyone, unless
authorized by the sender, t- -iiitercept a telephone
message, and direct in equally clear language that 'no
person' shall divulge or publish the message or its
6 Section

605 prohibits interception and divulgence of intrastate
as well as interstate communications. Weiss v. United States, 308
U. S. 321.

LEE v. FLORIDA.
378

383

Opinion of the Court.

substance to 'any person.' To recite the contents of
the message in testimony before a court is to divulge
the message. The conclusion that the act forbids
such testimony seems to us unshaken by the government's arguments.
"Congress may have thought it less important that
some offenders should go unwhipped of justice than
that officers should resort to methods deemed inconsistent with ethical standards and destructive of personal liberty. The same considerations may well
have moved the-Congress to adopt § 605 as evoked
the guaranty against practices and procedures violative of privacy, embodied in the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments of the Constitution." 302 U. S., at
382, 383.
Fifteen years later, in Schwartz v. Texas, 344 U. S.
199, the Court considered the question whether, despite
§ 605, telephone communications intercepted by state
officers could lawfully be received in evidence in state
criminal trials. That case was decided in the shadow
of Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U. S. 25, which shortly before
had held that "in a prosecution in a State court for a
State crime the Fourteenth Amendment does not forbid
the admission of evidence obtained by an unreasonable
search and seizure." 338 U. S., at 33. The Court in
Schwartz recognized that the problem before it was
"somewhat different" from the one that had been presented in Wolf, "because the introduction of the intercepted communications would itself be a violation" of
federal law. 344 U. S., at 201. But the Court nonetheless concluded that state trial courts were not required
to reject evidence violative of § 605. For if, as Wolf
had held, state courts were free to accept evidence
obtained in violation of the Federal Constitfition, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

Court reasoned that they could not be-required to reject
evidence obtained and divulged in violation of a federal
statute. That was the thrust of the Schwartz opinion:
"Although the intercepted calls would be inadmissible in a federal court, it does not follow that such
evidence is inadmissible in a state court. Indeed,
evidence obtained by a state officer by means whih
would constitute an unlawful search and seizure
under the Fourth Amendment to the Federal Constitution is nonetheless admissible in a state court,
Wolf v. Colorado,338 U. S. 25, while such evidence,
if obtained by a federal officer, would be clearly inadmissible in a federal court. Weeks v. United States,
232 U. S. 383." Ibid.
The fact that a state official would be violating the
express .terms of the federal statute by the very act of
divulging the intercepted communications as evidence
for the prosecution at the trial, the Court in Schwartz
said, was "simply an additional factor for a state to consider in formulating a rule-of evidence for use in its own
courts." Ibid. But in Benanti v. United States, 355U. S.96, five years later, the Court returned to the teaching of Nardone in giving emphatic recognition to the language of the statute that itself makes illegal the divulgence of intercepted communications. In Benanti the
Court held inadmissible in a federal trial communications
that had been intercepted by state officers.7 "Section
605," the Court said, "contains an express,, absolute
prohibition against the divulgence of intercepted communications." 355 U. S., at 102.
7 It was not until two Terms later, in Elkins v. United States, 364
U. S. 206, that the Court repudiated the "silver platter doctrine,"
under which evidence obtained by state officers in violation of the
Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments could be. received as evidence in
federal courts.

LEE v. FLORIDA.
378

Opinion 'of the Court.

After the Benanti decision, therefore, the only remaining support for Schwartz v. Texas, supra, was the holding
in Wolf v. Colorado, supra, that state courts, unlike federal courts, were free to decide for themselves whether to
condone violations of federal .lawby accepting the products of such violations as evidence: That doctrinal
underpinning of the Schwartz debision was, of -course,
completely removed by Mapp v. Ohio' 367 U. S. 643,
which overruled Wolf and squarely'held 't.hat. evidence
obtained by state officers in an unreasonable search is
inadmissible in a state criminal trial.
In view of the Nardone and Benanti decisions,8 the
doctrine of Schwartz v. Texas cannot survive the demise
of Wolf v. Colorado, supra. In the Mapp case, the Court
in overruling Wolf imposed a judicially devised exclusionary rule in order to insure that a State could not
adopt rules of evidence calculated to permit the invasion
of rights protected by federal organic law. In the present case the federal law itge-I explicitly protects intercepted communications from. divulgence, in a court or
any other place:
But the decision we reach today is not based upon
language and doctrinal symmetry alone. It is buttressed
as well by the "imperative of judicial integrity." Elkins
v. United States, 364 U. S. 206, 222.' Under our ConstisSee also the second Nardone case, Nardone v. United -States,

308 U. S. 338.
9"i[I]t cannot be lawful to authorize what is an illegal act ...
[I]f the police officer violates the Federal statute by tapping wires
notwithstanding a warrant issued out of this court pursuant to New
York law-if that act be illegal-those who set the act in motion
have condoned if not instigated illegality. . . . [T]he warrant itself
partakes of the breach, willful or inadvertent, of the Federal law.
Such breach may not find sanction in the orders of courts charged
with the support. of the law of the land and with enforcing that

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
Opinion of the Court.

392 U. S.

tution no court, state or federal, may serve as an accomplice in the willful transgression of "the Laws of the
--United States," laws by which "the. Judges in every State
[are] bound

.

..." 10

Finally, our decision today is counseled by experience.
The hope was expressed in Schwartz v. Texas that "[e]n-

forcement-of the statutory prohibition in § 605 can be
achieved under the penal provisions" of the Communica-

tions Act.

344 U. S., at 201.11

That has proved to be

a vain hope. Research has failed to uncover a single
reported prosecution of a law enforcement officer for vio-

lation of §605 since the statute was enacted. 2 We conclude, as we concluded in Elkins and in Mapp, that
law!" In re Telephone Communications, 9 Misc. 2d 121, 126, 170
N. Y. S. 2d 84, 89 (N. Y. Sup. Ct.).
See also Application for Interception of Telephone Communications, 23 Misc. 2d 543, 198 N. Y. S. 2d 572 (N. Y. Ct. Gen. Sess.).
Compare Judge Waterman's concurring opinion in Pugach v. Dollinger, 277 F. 2d 739 (denying injunction against state officer for
violating § 605), aff'd per curiam, 365 U. S. 458:
"It is therefore presumptuous to assume that any New York State
trial judge will .acquiiesce to the commission of a crime against the
United States in his presence in his courtroom by a witness testifying
under oath." 277 F. 2d, at 745.
10"[T]he Laws-of the United States . ..shall be the supreme
Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound
thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to
the Contrary notwithstanding." Art. VI, U. S. Const.
1 Compare Wolf v. Colorado, 338 U. S.25, at 30-31.
12 In Pugach v. Klein, 193 F. Supp. 630, a defendant in a state
criminal case attempted unsuccessfully to initiate a criminal prosecution against state officers for violations of § 605. See also Simons
v. O'Connor, 187 F. Supp. 702 (denying damages in action against
state officer for violation of § 605).
There seem to be only three reported prosecutions of private individuals for violations Of § 605. United States v. Gruber, 123 F.
2d 307; United States v4 Gris, 247 F. 2d 860; Elkins v. United States,
364 U. S.206.

LEE v. FLORIDA.
378

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

nothing short of mandatory exclusion of the illegal evidence will compel respect for the federal law "in the only
effectively available way-by removing the incentive to
disregard it." Elkins v. United States, 364 U. S., at 217.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting.

In 1937, Nardone v. United States, 302 U. S. 379, held
that 47 U. S. C. §,605 forbids the introduction of intercepted and divulged telephone conversations in federal
courts. In Schwartz v. Texas, 344 U. S. 199 (1952), this
Court held, however, that the section does not forbid the
use of such evidence in state criminal trials, saying:
"[W]e do not believe that Congress intended to impose a
rule of evidence on the state courts." 344 U. S., at 203. I
thought the holding in Schwartz was correct then and still
think so. The Court holds, however, that § 605 now
compels state courts to exclude such intercepted telephone messages from state trials. The effect of this holding is to overrule Schwartz v. Texas. The Court's holding is made despite the fact that Congress itself has not
changed the section. Nor does Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U. S.
643 (1961), undermine Schwartz as the Court intimates,
for in Schwartz we dealt, as we do here, with conduct that
violates only a federal statute and so deserves only the
sanctions contemplated by that statute* The Communications Act explicitly provides for penal sanctions, 47
U. S. C. § 501, and some civil remedies might be implied
as a matter of federal law, cf. J. I. Case Co. v. Borak,
377 U. S. 426 (1964). But the creation by statute of a
federal substantive right does not mean that the States
are required by the Supremacy Clause to give every procedural trial remedy afforded by federal courts or that
failure to afford such remedies renders the State "an
accomplice in the willful transgression of 'the Laws of
the United States.'" Ante, at 386.

OCTOBER TERM, 1967.
HARLAN, J., dissenting.

392 U. S.

I think it would be more appropriate for the Court to
leave this job of rewriting § 605 to tlhe Congress. Waiting for Congress to rewrite its law, however, is too slow
fof the Court in this day of the rapid creation of new
judicial rules, many of which inevitably.tend to make
conviction of criminals more difficult. I cannot agree
that there is the slightest justification for overruling
Schwartz and would affirm these Florida gambling
convictions.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, whom MR. JUSTICE WHITE

joins,

dissenting.
Congress has ample power to proscribe any particular
use of intercepted telephone conversations. The question here is simply whether § 605 of the Communications
Act proscribes basing state' criminal convictions on such
interceptions. This statutory question does not involve
any constitutional exclusionary rule, cf. Mapp v. Ohio,
367 U. S. 643, or thle supervisory power of this Court over
the lower federal courts, cf. Weeks v. United States, 232
U. S. 383.
More than 15 years 4go, in Schwartz v. Texas, 344 U. S.
199, this Court decided that § 605 -did not render state
convictions based on such interceptions invalid. Although arguments can be made that this decision was
incorrect, the matter is hardly without difficulty' It is
not at all obvious that a statute which by its terms prohibits only interception and divulgence of conversations,
meant lso to prohibit state-court reliance on the perfectly probative evidence gained thereby.*
*Nardone v. United States,.302 U S. 379, established that divulgence of intercepted communications in court was a violation-of
§ 605. The Court Went on to hold that a federal conviction resulting

from such a violation waq itself improper. 'The Court did not,
however, make it clear whether the Act required that result by its
own force or the Court was simply imposing that result by virtue
of its supervisory power.

LEE v. FLORIDA.
378

HARLAN,

389

J., dissenting.

It disserves the proper relation between this Court
and Congress to change the long-standing interpretation
of a-federal statute in the absence of much more convincing evidence than is here adduced that the Court
originally mistook what Congress intended. The importance of the principle of stare decisis of course varies with
the nature of the question. It is at its highest in a case
such as the present: Congress has considered the wiretapping problem many times, each time against what it
naturally assumed to be a stable background of statute
law. To vary that background with the inclinations of
members of this Court is to frustrate orderly congressional consideration of statutory problems. I would
therefore adhere to Schwartz.
Since the Court does not reach petitioners' further
contention that the interception violated their constitutional rights, I am content to dissent from the Court's
determination of the statutory question and not to express views that would, at this stage, be academic.

