414

SUPREME COURT.
The Ship Marcellus.

to the railroad company in payment of its subscription to the
Northwestern Railroad Company.
To the fourth prayer, we answer, that the sale of the county
bonds, by the railroad company, at less than par, does not avoid
them in the hands of the purchaser.

THE SHIP MAR ELLs-Baxter, Claimant; Camp, Libellant.
I In a case of collision between two sea-going vessels, where the only
question proposed by the pleadings is one of fact, where there is
much discrepancy between the witnesses as to every averment, and
where both the courts below have concurred in their decision, it is
not to be expected that this court will reverse the decree upon a
mere doubt founded on the nuinber or credibility of the witnesses.
2 in such a case the appellant has all presumptions against him, and the
burden of proof is thrown on him to show affirmatively that an error
has been committed, and if there be sufficient evidence on the record to support the decree which was made, the appellant cannot get
it reversed by establishing a theory, supported by some of the witnesses, on which a different decree might have been rendered.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Massachusetts. In admiralty.
Hugh N. Camp, Edward W. Brunsen, and Charles Sherry,
partners, doing business in New York city, under the firm of
Camp, Brunsen & Sherry, filed their libel in the District Court
for Massachusetts, against the ship Marcellus, of Boston, her
tackle, apparel and furniture, alleging that they were the owners of one hundred and seventy boxes and forty hogsheads of
sugar, worth ten thousand dollars, laden on board the schooner
Empire, bound from Boston to Bristol, Rhode Island; that
while the schooner, with the sugar on board, was sailing out
of Boston harbor, in the narrows between Gallup and Lovell's
islands, the ship Marcellus carelessly and negligently ran afoul
of her, striking her on her larboard side, nearly amidships, so
that she sunk and the sugars were totally destroyed and lost.
The circumstances of the collision are minutely set forth in

DECEMNBER TERM, 1861.
The jip

Marcellus.

the libel-the condition of the schooner, the vigilance of her
officers and crew, the relative position and course of the two
vessels, the state of the wind, the hail from the ship to the
schooner, and 'the reply of the schooner, &c.; from all which
the conclusion is stated that the schooner did everything that
she could or ought have done to avoid the collision and save
the cargo, and that the loss was caused solely by the culpable
misconduct of the ship.
The proper process being issued, and the ship arrested, John
A. Baxter, one of the owners, for himself and the other owners, namely, William Dillamay and Charles I. Dillamay, of
Boston, Josiah Gorham, Alexander Baxter, SylvesterBaker,
jr., James B. Crocker, and John Gorham, of Yarmouth, Sylvester Baxter, Asa Lathrop, Owen Bearse, Robert B. Hallet,
and Thacher Hinchley, of Barnstable, came and claiiied the
ship, and she was delivered on the usual stipulations being
given.
The answer of the claimants admitted that a collision did
tike place between the two vessels at the time and place set
forth in the libel, but denied, circumstantially and specifically,
all the material allegations of the libel which tended to show
that it was caused by the fault of the ship. The answer averred
that the injury to the schooner was caused entirely by her own
fault and negligence; that she was badly and unskilfully navigated; that she might easily have avoided the ship with proper
care and effort, and ought to have done so; and that the ship
was well and carefully navigated, but on account of the
schooner's mismanagement it was impossible for the ship to
go clear of her.
The witnesses were very numerous on both sides. The lists
were composed of the officers, seamen, and others on board of
the ship and the schooner, and of persons who sawthe collision
.from other vessels which were in sight at the time; and in
their testimony there was much conflict- and contradiction.
The District Court decreed that the libellantsrecover against
the ship Marcellus, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, $9,654 57,
with costs. From this decree the libellants took an appeal to
the Circuit Court, where the cause was elaborately reviewed

416

SUPREME COURT.
The Ship larcellus.

and the evidence thoroughly analyzed by Mr. Justice Clifford,
who affirmed the decree of the District Court, adding to it the
interest which had accrued in the mean time. The libellants
then took their appeal to this court. The arguments here were
very full, but consisted mainly of discussions on the matters
of fact, each party contending that his own view of the case
was supported by the preponderating weight of the evidence.
Mr. Russell, of Massachusetts, for the claimants.
Mr. B. B. Curtis, of Massachusetts, for the libellants.
Mr. Justice GRIER. The collision, which is the subject of
inquiry in this suit, took place in the narrows, in Boston harbor, between Lovell's island and Gallup island.
The libellants are owners of the schooner Empire, and the
appellants of the ship Marcellus. The schooner was going
out, the ship coming into Boston harbor. They were sailing
in opposite courses, through a channel of about three hundred
and sixty feet.
The libellants charge in their libel, that the collision was
wholly attributable to the carelessness and negligence of those
in the ship. They allege that the wind, just before and at the
time of the collision, was south-southwest; that the schooner
was sailing on the western side of the channel, close-hauled
on the wind, with her starboard tacks aboard, and with all or
nearly all her sails set; that she was steering southeast by
south, working up to the wind, in order to give the ship as
much room as possible; that the ship was sailing up the channel at great speed and with the wind free, so that she might
have passed the schooner on the larboard side without difficulty; that as the ship approached towards the point of danger,
the schooner hailed her to keep off; that the hail was answered
from the ship, requiring the schooner, to luff, which was impossible, as she was already close to the wind; that the schooner
did not change her course, but that the ship, immediately after
she hailed the schooner, luffed, and instantly ran into the
schooner, and presently both vessels drifted to the leeward shore.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
The Ship .arcellus.

In their answer, the respondents admit that the collision occurred at the time specified in the libel, and that the ship was
running free on her larboard tack, but allege that the collision
took place on the easterly side of the channel, and that every
possible precaution was taken by the ship, by hailing and
otherwise, to prevent the vessels from coming in contact.
Their theory is, that it was occasioned entirely through the
fault-and mismanagement of those in charge of the schooner,
and accordingly allege that the wind at the time of the collision was southwest; that the ship between six and seven o'clock
was sailing along the leeward edge of the channel, hugging
the shore as close as it was possible for her to do with safety;
that while so passing, the schooner was discovered some distance ahead coming down the harbor with a free wind, an-d
appearing at first to be going to the windward of the ship, a.,
she should and might easily have done, but that she afterwar4 t
changed her course as if going to the leeward, aud when sho
had approached within a short distance of the ship, luffed acros,
her bows, resulting in a violent collision, sinking the schooner
and damaging the hull, rigging, and spars of the ship, for
which they pray they may be allowed.
The only question proposed by these pleadings is one of
fact. In this, as in all other cases of the kind, there is great
discrepancy and conflict in the testimony of the witnesses, as
to every averment in the pleadings. We have had occasion
to remark more than once, that, when both courts below have
concurred in the decision of questions of fact under such cir•cumstances, parties ought not to expect this court to reverse
such a decree, merely by raising a doubt founded on the num"ber or credibility of witnesses. The appellant in such case
has all presumptions against him, and the burthen of proof
cast on him to prove affirmatively sdme mistake made by the
judge below, in the law or in the evidence. It will not do to
show that on one theory, supported by some witnesses, a different decree might have heen rendered, provided there be sufficiejnt evidence to be found on the record to establish the one
that was rendered.
When the wind is southwest, it is the general rule that vesVOL. 1.

27

SUPIEME COURT.
The Ship Marcelus.

seld going out shall keep to the windward side of the channel,
and the vessels coming in the leeward. The witnesses, who
could know best, testify, that throughout the passage down the
narrows the schooner was kept close to the wind, and was not
suffered to fill off, and did not luff at all. Others may have
formed erroneous judgments. But if their testimony be untrue, they must have wilfully perverted the truth. It is a common mistake to attribute the motion of one of two passing bodies to the other. Calculations of time and distance) resting on
the loose recollections of witnesses, can seldom be relied upon
with much confidence. The collision took place in the evening, when it was not quite dark. The testimony of three of
the ship's crew concurs with that of witnesses on the schooner,
in establishing the state of facts as alleged in the libel.
The pilot of the ship had observed the approach of the
schooner, and directed the mate to go forward and see how she
was standing. He did so; and observing that the schooner
was heading to windward of the ship, he responded to the order: -"all right, she is going to windward;" but in a short time
was heard to say: "luff, hard-down, hard-down, luff," which
were the first words heard by the man at the wheel; the pilot
repeated the words, "hard-down, luff." The wheel was let
down, or nearly so, when the order was changed to "hard-up;"
but before this last order could have any effect, the collision
took place.
Another of the ship's crew gives a similar account, with
some difference: that the mate of the 'ship called out to the
schooner "to luff;" and repeating the command to them, "you
must luffi heave her hard-down." During this colloquy, the
ship luffed, as the witness supposed, in consequence of the
pilot having made the mistake, of supposing the mate's order
"to luff" was directed to him.
The collision was attributed by some on the ship to the fact,
that the mate "bothered" the pilot. This testimony, on the
part of the crew of the ship, corroborates that of the officers
and crew of the schooner. Without any further attempt to
vindicate the correctness of the decree, by a minute comparison of the testimony, it is sufficient to say, that the weight of

DECEMI3ER TERM, 1861.

419

Cleveland vs. Chamberlain.
the testimony is on the side of the charges in the libel, and
supports the decrce of the court below, which is therefore affirmed.

CLtVELAND VS. CHAMBERLAIN.

1. If it be made to appear, in the case of an appeal pending in this court,
that the appellant has purchased and taken an assignment of all
the appellee's interest in the decree appealed from, the appeal will
be dismissed.
2 The rule laid down in Lord vs. eazie, (8 How., 254,) where both
parties colluded to get up a case for the opinion of the court, is
applicable to a case where the appellant becomes sole party in interest and dominus litis on both sides.
3. An appellant who becomes the equitable owner of the whole opposing
interest, who procures a discontinuance as to his co-defendants,
against whom no final decree is made, employs counsel on both
sides, and makes up a record to suit himself in order that he may
obtain an opinion of this court, affecting the rights and interests of
persons not parties to the pretended controversy, is justly chargeable with conduct highly reprehensible and a punishable contempt
of court.
4. The third parties, whose rights and interests may be affected by the
decision of the court in a dispute alleged to be merely colorable,
will be heard on affidavits or other proofs to show that it is not earfled on in good faith between the parties who are nominally the appellant and appellee.

This was an appeal by the defendant from the District Court
of the United States for the district of Wisconsin.
Newcombe Cleveland, of Illinois, brought his'bill in equity
in the District Court against the La Crosse and Milwaukie
Railroad Company, Byron Kilbourn, Moses Kneeland, James
Luddington, D. C. Freeman, Charles D. Nash, of Wisconsin, and Selah Chamberlain, of Ohio, complaining that he
had recovered a judgment against the railroad company for
$112,271 76, besides costs, which remains unsatisfied, and on
which the complainant issued his execution and levied upon

