SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Knight's Administrator.

surveys, practical location, and the like, should be submitted
to them under proper instructions to find the fact.
We do not think the special verdict in this case furnishes
ground for the court to determine whether or not the offence
was committed out of the jurisdiction of a State, and shall
direct that it be certified to the Circuit Court, to set aside thp
special verdict, and grant a new trial.

UNITED STATES VS. KNIGHT'S ADMINISTRATOR.

1. After a cause has been argued and decided, the court will not hear a
motion to change the decree based on affidavits taken to show facts
which do not appear in the reccrd.
2.' This court will not suffer its judgment upon an appeal to be influenced
in any respect by new testimony offered here, even in a case which
is within its general chancery powers, much less where it is exercising merely the special jurisdiction conferred by Congress in respect to California land claims.
The
necessity for this rule, and the legal principles on which it is
8.
founded, discussed by the Chief Justice.
4. The court does not doubt its power to open a judgment rendered at
the present term and continue or rehear the cause, if, upon the record, one of the judges who concurred in the decision supposes it
to be erroneous.
This cause (a California land claim brought here on appeal
by the United States from the decree of the District Court)
was reached on the docket at the present term, was called in
its regular order, and was argued by counsel on both sides;
the opinion of the court upon it was delivered, and a decree
pronounced, that the decree of the District Court be reversed
and the cause remanded, with directions to dismiss the petition
of the claimant. (See ante, p. 227.)
At a subsequent day of the term, Mr. 1?everdy Johnson, for
the claimant, moved the court so far to modify its order entered therein, as to remand the cause to the court below for

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

•489

United States vs. Knighl's .Administrator.

further evidence and proceedicgs, and offered in support of the.
motion sundry affidavits to show by this new testimony that
the court had fallen into error in some conclusions of fact
stated in the opinion, and also that some of the testimony was
not within the knowledge or power of the appellee when the
case was heard in the District Court, but has been discovered
since.
Mr. Black, for the Uinited States, hoped the court would relieve him from the duty of making an argument on the motion; thought that it ought not to be heard at all, and gave
his reasons for that opinion.
Mr. Johnson maintained the propriety and regularity of the
motion, and respectfully insisted on his right to be heard.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. The court cannot receive the
depositions, nor hear an argument upon the riiotion. The
point has already been decided at the present term in the case
of The United States vs. Hensley, and a similar motion overruled.
'In the case of Southard et al. vs. Russell, (12 How., 139,) the
court held that it could not look beyond the record as transmitted from the inferior court, nor suffer its judgment to be
influenced in any respect by new testimony offered here. And
that case was before us in the exercise of the general chancery
powers conferred by the Constitution, in which a broad discretionary power may be exercised in order to promote the
purposes of justice; for.in a case prosecuted within that jurisdiction the defeated party, upon the discovery of new evidence,
may, after a final decree in this court, obtain leave here to file
a bill of review in the court below to review the judgment
which this court had rendered. 16 How., 547.
But the jurisdiction which the court exercises in this case is
a special one, created by act of Congress, and its mode of proceeding and powers are regulated and defined by the law; and
it cannot, under any supposed analogy to proceedings in chancery, exercise any power beyond that which the act or acts of

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Knight's Administrator

Congress have given. 6 'Pet., 470, United Stales vs. .ourse.
These acts of Congress give this court the power to hear and
determine the case upon the proceedings and evidence taken
in the court below certified to this court; but no power to receive or consider any new evidence, although discovered since
the decree was passed. Indeed, it would have been inconsistent with the policy upon which these acts of Congress were
passed to confer this power upon the court. This special jurisdiction was created in order to ascertain promptly the extent
of the grants which had been made by the Mexican Government to private individuals, and how much of the public domain still remained in the hands of the Government at the
time of the cession to the United States, and had become subject to the disposition of this Government. And if a proceeding like the one now proposed was sanctioned, it would lead
to interminable delays in almost every case where the decision
was against the claimant, and it would be difficult to say when
the rights of the United States could be regarded as finally
settled in any case while a Mexican still made claim to the
land under what he might allege to be a Mexican grant. And
we may judge, from the character of the testimony offered in
the cases which have already been before the court upon these
Mexican claims, what would be the extent of the fraud and
perjury to which such a privilege would lead, when the claimant had learned from the decision of the court what were the
weak points of his case, and was strongly tempted by the magnitude of his claim to seek for and discover some new testimony to cure its defects.
We do not doubt the power of the court to open the judgment it has rendered at the present term, and continue or rehear the case, if, upon the record before us, any one of the
judges who concurred in the decision had since seen cause to
doubt its correctness. But in the absence of any such doubt
the motion of the appellee is overruled.
-Motion refused.

