DECEMBER TERM, .1861.

503

Ex Parte Gordon.

case, where a judgment is reversed and a venire de novo ordeFed-;
and the reason given by the court was, "that the District Court
might not be trammeled in their future consideration of the
case on all its merits."
The motion for a mandamus is therefore refued.

Ex PAnTE GoRDoN.
1. A writ of prohibition cannot issue from this court in cages where
there is no appellate power given by law, nor any special authority
to issue the writ.
2. Neither a writ of error, writ of prohibition, nor certiorari, will lie
from this court to a Circuit Court of the United States, in a criminal case.
3.The only mode of bringing a criminal case into this court is upon a
certificate of the judges of the Circuit Court that their opinions
are opposed upon a question raised at the trial.
4 No party has a right to ask for such a certificate, nor can it be made
consistently with the duty of the court, if the judges are agreed
and do not think there is doubt enough upon the question to justify
them in submitting it to the judgment of this pourt.
5.After a party has been convicted and sentenced in the Circuit Court
for a criminal offence, and after a warrant is in the hands of the
marshal, commanding him to execute the judgment, the Circuit
Court itself has no power to recall it; and certainly this court, having no appellate power over the proceeding, cannot prohibit aministerial officer from performing the duty which the Circuit Court
has legally imposed upon him.
This was an application by Nathaniel Gordon for an alternative writ of prohibition to the judges of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the southern district of New York, and
its officers, and the United States marshal, to restrain them
from further proceeding in a case wherein the said Gordon
had been found guilty of piracy and sentenced to death; and
also for a writ of certioraricommanding the judges to send up
the papers. process, and all proceedings in the said cause, to

SUPREME COURT.
Ex Parte Gordon.

this court. The facts averred by the petitioner are substantially stated by the Chief Justice in the opinion of the court.
31r. Dean, of New York, presented the petition and moved
for an alternative writ of prohibition, and also for a certiorari
to bring up the proceedings.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. Nathaniel Gordon has filed a
petition to this court, stating that he has been indicted and
convicted in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York of the crime of piracy, under
the act of Congress prohibiting the African slave trade, and
sentenced to death by the court, and a warrant issued and
placed in the hands of the marshal of that district, command"ing him to carry the sentence into execution on the seventh
day of this month; that there were irregularities and errors in
the proceedings against him, and that he had moved for an
arrest of judgment in the Circuit Court, which motion had
been overruled; and had also moved to have the case certified
to this court as upon a division of opinion, in order that the
proceedings against him might be revised here, but this application had also b~en refused; that the President of the
UYnited States has granted him a respite of the sentence until
the twenty-first day of this month, and he fears that it will be
carried into execution on that day unless it is prevented by the
interposition of this court; and, upon this statement, he, by
.his counsel, moves for an alternative writ of prohibition direct,ed to the Circuit Court and its officers; and also for a eertiorarl,
returnable at the same time, directing the Circuit Court to return the papers, process, and proceedings in the case.
This motion cannot be sustained. It appears by the statement in the petition, that the party has been tried, and found
guilty of the crime of piracy, and sentenced to be executed
by a court of the United States, possessing competent jurisdiction, and from whose judgment no appeal is allowed, by law,
to this tribunal; for, in criminal cases, the proceedings and
judgment of the Circuit Court cannot be revised or controlled
here, in any form of proceeding, either by writ of error or pro-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861,
Ex Parne Gordon.

hibition, and, consequently, we have no authority to examine
them by a certiorari. And the only case in which this court
is authorized even to express an opinion on the proceedings
in a Circuit Court in a criminal case is, where the judges of
the Circuit Court are opposed in opinion upon a question
arising at the trial, and certify it to this court for its decision.
But, certainly, the party had no right to ask for such a certificate, nor could it have been granted consistently with the duty
of the court if the judges agreed in opinion, and did not think
there was doubt enough to justify them in submitting the
luestion to the judgment bf this court.
But.this motion asks the court to do even more than exercise an appellate power where none is given by law, for the
case has now passed out of the hands of the court, and the
warrant is in the hands of the marshal commanding him to
execute the judgment of the court. The Circuit Court itself
has not now the power to recall it, and, certainly, it would be
without precedent in any judicial prQceeding to prohibit a
ministerial officer from performing a duty which the Circuit
Court had a lawful right to command, and had by its process,
regularly issued, commanded him to perform, and in a case,
too, where no appellate power is given fo this court to revise
or control in any respect the judgment or proceedings of the
Circuit Court. We are not aware of any case in which a
similar motion has heretofore been made in this court in a
criminal case. In a civil case, Ex Parte Christie, (3 How., 292,)
a motion was made for a prohibition to be issued to the District Court of the United States for the district of Louisiana,
to prohibit it from further proceedings in a certain case of
bankruptcy then before it, upon the ground that it had transcended its jurisdiction in entertaining these proceedings. But
this court was of opinion that it had not exceeded its jurisdiction, and the question as to its power to issue the writ was
not necessarily involved in the decision of the case. In the
conclusion of the opinion, however, after a very elaborate argument on the powers of the District Court, under the bankrupt
law, the court said, (page 322,) that although the question was
not absolutely necessary to be decided, yet they deemed it

SU-PREME COURT.
Foster vs. Goddard.-Goddardvs. Foster.

proper to say, as the point had been fully argued, that this
court possessed no revising powers over the decrees of the.
District Court sitting in bankruptcy; that the District Court
had not interfered with, nor in any manner evaded or obstructed, the appellate authority of this court by its proceedings,
and the court knew of no case where the court is authorized
to issue a writ of prohibition to a District Court, except in the
cases expressly provided for by the 13th section of the judiciary
act of 1789-that is to say, where the District Courts are proceeding as courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
The result of this opinion is, that a prohibition cannot issue
from this court in cases where there is no appellate power
given by law, nor any special authority to issue the writ. We
concur in this opinion, and the rule applies with equal force to
the case before us as it did in the case referred to.
lotion refused.

FOSTER vs. GODDARD.-GODDARD VS. FOSTER.

1. An exception to a master's report is not in the nature of a special demurrer, and is not required to be so full and specific.
2. It is only necessary that the exception should distinctly point out the

finding and conclusion of the master which it seeks to reverse.
3. An exception so made brings up for examination all questions of fact
and law arising upon the report of the master, relative to that subject.
4. Where parties associated in trade contract that one partner shall receive a certain share of the profits arising from the sale of goods,
deducting "th'e actual expenses that may appertain to the goods
themselves," taxes, clerk-hire, and advertising are as clearly chargeable among these expenses as storage, commission or insurance.
Cross appeals from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts, pleadings, and points of this case are so fully stated
by Mr. Justice Swayne, that any other report of them cannot
be made without repeating what he has said in his opinion.

