SUPREME COURT.
Singleton vs. Touchard.

The decree made by this court in 1858, in favor of Sutter,
remanded the proceeding to the surveyor general's office in
California, to have a survey made of the land conformably to
our decree, to the end of having a patent founded on the survey, divesting the title of the United States. In executing
the survey, Sutter's assignees may intervene and protect their
rights, according to the act of June 14, 1860.
We are not aware that the survey has been executed; but
when it is finally completed, and a patent issued to Sutter, his
assignees can assert their rights against him in the ordinary
courts of the country. But the extraordinary tribunals, proceeding by force of the act of 1851, cannot order a second
patent to issue for a portion of Sutter's grant. Such judgment
could have no effect against the Government; and as between
Sutter and the petitioners, would be a nullity, being prohibited by the 15th section of the act of 1851.
1 is ordered that the judgment be reversed, and the petition be dkmissed.

SINGLETON vs. TOUCHARD.
1. Where a plaintiff in ejectment claimed under a Mexican title, con.

firmed and patented according to the act of 1851, the defendant
cannot oppose to it another Mexican title not finally confirmed, but

pending in the Supreme Court on appeal by the Attorney General.
2. In such case the plaintiff has a legal title, while the defendant's title
(if it be a title) is but inchoate and equitable, and will not avail
him in an action at law.
Gustave Touchard, a subject of the French Emperor, brought
ejectment in the Circuit Court for the northern district of California, against James Singleton and seventeen others, for a
tract of land situate in the county of Santa Clara, California,
being a portion of what is known as Yerba Buena rancho. All
the defendants answered, averring the title of the land claimed
by the plaintiff to be in the public authorities of the city of
San Jos6, and all, except two of them, admitted that they were

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

. 43

Singleton vs. Touc7ard.

in possessi6n of certain portions of the land for which they
severally took defence under conveyances or licenses from
either the M[ayor and Council, or the commissioners of the
funded debt, of San Josb city. The other two defendants did
not aver any conveyance to them from the city officers. They
asserted the title to be in the city, but denied that they themselves were in possession.
On the trial the plaintiff produced a patent from the United
States to Antonio Chaboya, reciting his claim under a grant
from the Mexican Government, and the final confirmation of it
pursuant to the act of Congress of Mdarch 3, 1851. It was admitted that this patent covered the land in suit. The plaintiff
showed the conveyances through which Chaboya's title was
transmitted to himself, and proved the possession of the two
defendants by whom that fact was denied in their answers.
On the part of the defendants, evidence was given to show
that the Mayor and Common Council of the city of San Jos6 had
petitioned the Board of Land Commissioners for confirmation
of their claim to the commons, or pasture lands, of the pueblo
of San Jos6. It appeared, that this claim had been confirmed by
the commissioners for four leagues, being one league in each
direction from the centre of the plaza, and for the remainder
of the land the claim was rejected. On appeal to the District
Court the title of the city to all the land it claimed was confirmed. The Attorney General took an appeal to the Supreme
Court. It was proved, that the boundaries assigned to the
pueblo lands by the decree of the District Court included all
the lands in dispute between the present parties. After this,
the defendants proceeded to show the documentary and other
evidence, upon which the pueblo of San Jose claimed its title
from the Mexican nation.
The judge of the Circuit Court instructed the jury that the
patent conferred a legal title upon Chaboya and his alienee,
the plaintiff. As to the defendants' title, it could not (he said)
be set up against the patent, even though the evidence were
such as to prove the Mexican grant to the pueblo a good one,
and entitled to confirmation, under the act of Congress. The
confirmation ofthe city's claim by the Land Cpmmission and

SUPREME COURT.
Singleton vs. Touchard.

the District Court, with an appeal to the Supreme Court still
pending, and without a survey or patent, might be good in
equity, but could not be made available to the party in this
action.
The jury accordingly found a verdict for the plaintiff, upon
which the court gave judgment, and the defendants sued out
this writ of error.
No counsel appeared for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Stanton and 31. .XcCrea, (with whom was 1r. Willdns
and Mr. Hepburn,) for defendants in error, argued that the
:Mexican title set up by the plaintiffs in error was unsound in
itself; and even if it were good, it could not be used to resist
the perfect legal title of the defendant in error. The confirma"tion by the District Court amounts to nothing, for it may be
reversed. And even if it were a final decree, without a survey
or patent, it would be useless in a court of law. Waterman vs.
Smith, (13 Cal. Rep., 418;) Waterman vs. Samuels, (15 Cal. Rep.,
"123;) Jezes vs. Greer, (24 How., 268.)
Mr. Justice GRIER. There were two several instructions
-given by the court below to the jury. If either of them be
correct, the verdict rendered for the plaintiff below was correct, and the judgment of the court thereon must be affirmed.
The plaintiff in ejectment claimed under a patent from the
,United States; the defendants under a claim confirmed by the
-District Court, on which an appeal had been entered by the
'Attorney General. This claim had not been surveyed; its
boundaries were not 'officially ascertained, nor had any patent
been issued for it.
The court instructed the jury, "that in the action of ejectment the legal title must prevail; that the plaintiff had a legal
title by his patent, and the defendant's, if any, was but an inchoate and equitable title, which might avail in a court of
chancery, but it could not avail the defendant in action of
.ejectment."
This instruction was in exact accordance with numerous de.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Singleton vs. Touchard.

cisions of this court, (see Mezes vs. Greer, 24 How., 268,) and
justified the verdict, even if there had been error in the other
instructions given.
There is another and important question in the case. It relates to the nature of the title of a pueblo to its common or
pasture lands, and whether, under the laws and customs of
Spain and Mexico, the government of the colony could make
valid sales within the boundaries of the common so claimed?
This question is now for the first time presented to, this
court. The defendants in error have filed their brief, containing an elaborate argument; but the plaintiffs in error have not
furnished us any. As it is not necessary, to our judgment of
affirmance of this case, to give any opinion on this point, we
decline any examination of the question on an ex parte argument.
We may give, as an additional reason for this course, that
the question depends on the local law, and on the history and
custom of the Mexican government and the Governors of California. And since the appeal in this case, it seems to have
been adjudged by the local tribunals. (See Hart vs. Burnett,
15 Cal. Rep., 544; and Brown vs. San Francisco, 16 Cal. Rep.,
452.)
This decision of a question of local law by these domestic
tribunals may well have been considered by the plaintiffs in
error as a sufficient reason for abandoning his case without
argument here.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed.

