DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

101

8iew vs. Davis & Barton.

STILES vs. DAvis & BARTON.

1. Goods seized by a sheriff under an attachment are in the custody of
2.

3.

4.

5.

the law.
Where the goods are attached in the hands of a common carrier, to
whom they have been delivered for transportation, the carrier is not
justified in giving them up to the consignee while the proceeding
in attachment is pending.
IV
This rule holds even where the goods have been attached for the debt
of a third person, and under a proceeding to which the employer
of the carrier is not a party.
The right of the sheriff to hold them is a question of law to be determined by the court having jurisdiction of the attachment suit, and
not by the will of either the carrier or his employer.
If the consignee of the goods can show a title in himself, his remedy
is not against the carrier, but against the officer who has, wrongfully seized them, or against the plaintiff in the attachment suit,
if he directed the seizure.

Writ of error to the District Court of the United States for
the northern district of Illinois.

Solomon Davis and Joseph Barton brought trover in the Circuit Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois, against Edmund G. Stiles, for twelve boxes, one trunk, and
one bale containing dry goods, of the value of four thousand

dollars.

On th6 trial it was proved that Stiles, who was a com-

mon carrier, had by his agents, Scofield and Curtis, received

the goods in question from Benjamin Cooley, attorney for
Davis & Barton, (the plaintiffs,) to be forwarded to Dion, New
York, at two dollars and fifty cents per cwt., subject to the
order of the plaintiffs, upon the surrender of the receipt and
payment of charges. It appeared on the trial that they purchased the goods, or took an assignment of them, from a bankrupt firm in Janesville, (composed of D. W. C. Davis, who was
a son of one plaintiff, and Davies A. Barton, a son of the other,)
and made the contract above mentioned with the defendant
for carrying them to Ilion, New York, the place of the plain-

SUPREME COURT.
Stiles vs. Davis & Barton.

tiff's own residence. The receipt is dated at Janesville, on
the 2d of November, 1857. The goods arrived in Chicago on
the next day, and were received by the defendant (Stiles) at
his proper place of business, whence they were to be despatched
by him to the place of their ultimate destination. But before
they were forwarded, Andrew Cameron and others, creditors,
or claiming to be creditors of the junior Davis and Barton, attached the goods in the hands of Stiles, the transporter. Shortly
before this suit was brought, (the precipe is dated on the 16th
of iNovember, 1857,) G. W. Davenport, attorney of the plaintiffs, presented the receipt to the defendant, and demanded the
goods. The defendant said they had been attached, and declined to give them up until the suit in which the process
issued should be decided; the goods, he said, were in his possession in a warehouse or stored; he asserted no personal interest in them, but claimed that he was protected by the garnishee process.
The counsel of the defendant requested the court to instruct
the jury: 1. That a common carrier could not be guilty of conversion by a qualified refusal when he claimed no interest in
the goods himself, and he had shown reasonable grounds of
dispute as to the title. 2. That a qualified refusal by the defendant, after he was garnisheed, he only claiming to hold
them to await the decision of the title, when there was reasonable ground of dispute as to the title, was no conversion.
The court refused to give these instructions; but said: 1.
That the jury were to determine from the evidence whether
there had been a conversion. As a general rule, if the right of
property was in the plaintiffs, a demand on the defendant, and
a refusal by him to deliver up property in his possession, were
circumstances from which the jury might infer a conversion,
open, of course, to explanation. 2. That if the plaintiffs were
the owners of the goods, and they were delivered by the plaintiffs, or their agent, to the defendants, and received by him or
his agents to be transported for the plaintiffs to their residence
in New York, th~en the defendant was liable under and according to the terms of the contract. And.if he did not so transport them or comply with his contract, the plaintiffs had the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

103

Stileks vs. Davis & Barton.

right to call on him to deliver up to them the goods; and if
upon such demand he refused, it was for the jury to say whether
it constituted, under the circumstances of this case, a conversion. 3. That in the contingency contemplated by the last
preceding instruction, if the defendant declined to return or
surrender the goods to the plaintiffs, it was to be considered
at his own risk or peril. 4. That any proceedings in the State
court to which the plaintiffs were not parties, and of which
they had no notice, did not bind them or their property. 5. The
court left it to the jury to say whether there was any connivance or collusion between the attaching creditors and the defendant; and if there was, then the defendant could not rely
upon those proceedings as an excuse for not delivering up the
goods. The judge added, that though the attachment was not
a bar to the action, the jury might consider that fact as a circumstance in*determining whether there was a conversion or
not.
The jury found for the plaintiff $3,041 14. The court gave
judgment on the verdict, and the defendant sued out this writ
of error.
Mr. -Dewey, of Illinois, for the plaintiff in error. A demand
and refusal to deliver goods are evidence of a conversion, but
not per se a conversion. Munger vs. Hess, (28 Barbour, 75;)
Chancellor of Oxford's case, (10 Rep., 566;) Mires vs. Soleburg,
2 Mod., 244; Bull, N. P., 34. But to make the detention a
conversion, it mufst appear that it was wrongful. In this case,
the attachment of the goods being given as a reason f6r detaining them, the detention was not wrongful. It must appear
that the goods were in possession of the defendant at the time
the demand was made, and that he had the power to give them.
up. Bull, N. P., 44; Vincent vs. Cornell, (13 Pick., 294;)
NPixon vs. Jenkins, (2 H1. BI., 135;) -Edwardsvs. Hooper,(11. M.
& W., 366, per Parke, B. ;) Smith vs. Young, (1 Camp., 441 ;)
,Kinder vs. Shaw, (2 Mass., 898;) Chamberlainvs. Shaw, (18 Peck,
278;) Leonard vs. Todd, (2 Met., 6;) Jones vs. Fort,(9B. & 0.,
764;) Knapp vs. Winchester, (11 Vermont, 351;) Kelsey vs.
Griswold, (6 Barbour, 436;) Terrall vs. 1?obinson, (2 0. M. &R.,

SUPREME COURT.
Stiks vs. Davis & Barton.

495.) When this demand was made the goods had been attached, were in the custody of the law, and the defendanthad
no right or power to deliver them to any person except the
attaching officer. Bedlam vs. Tucker, (1 Peck, 289;) Ludden vs.

Leavett, (9 Mass., 104;) Perley vs. Foster, (9 Mass., 112;) Warren vs. Leland, (9 Mass., 265;) Gates vs. Gates, (15 Mass., 310;)
Gibbs vs. Chase, (10 Mass., 125;) Odiorne vs. Colley, (2 N. Hamp.,
66;) Kennedy vs. Brent, (6 Cranch, 187;) Parkervs. Kinnssman,
(8 Mass., 486;) Blaisdell vs. Ladd, (14 N. Hamp., 189;) Burlingame vs. Bell, (16 Mass., 318;) Swett vs. Brown, (5 Pick., 178;)
Tillinghast vs. Johnson, (5 Alab., 514;) Thompson vs. Allen, (4
Stew. and Porter, 184;) Bryan vs. Lashley, (13 Smedes & Marshall, 284;) Watkins vs. Field, (6 Arkansas, 391;) Martin vs.
Foreman, (18 Ark., 249;) Hfarker vs. Stevens, (4 McLean, 535;)
Drake on Attachments, sections 271, 290, 350, 453; Braskear
vs. West, (7 Peters, 608;) Briggs vs. Kouns, (7 Dan , 405;) .Erskine
vs. Staley, (12 Leigh, 406;) Walcott vs. Keith, (3 Foster, 196;)
Brownell vs. Manchester, (1 Pick., 232;) Gordon vs. Jeneny, (16
Mass., 465;) Lathrop, vs. Blake, (3 Foster, 46;) Whitney vs.
Ladd, (10 Vermont, 165;) Verrall vs. Robinson, (5 Turwhitt's
Exch. R., 1069.) In the case last cited the chaise for which
trover was brought belonged to the plaintiff, but was attached
in the hands of the defendant as the property of a third person, who had hired it from the plaintiff and left it with the
defendant for sale. Lord Abinger and Baron Alderson held
that the chaise was in the custody of the law, and the defendant's refusal to deliver it to the plaintiff was no evidence, of
a wrongful conversion.
Mr. Burnet, of Illinois, for defendant in error. This was a
conversion. 9 Cush., 148; 1 McCord, 504, 392; 4 Hill, 14;
1 E. D. Smith, 522; 1 Thunt., 391; 4 Esp., 157. Stopping
the goods at Chicago was itself a conversion. Angell on
Com. Carriers, ยง 431, 432, 433. The disposing or assuming
to dispose of plaintiff's goods is the gist of the action, and it
is no answer for defendant that he acted under the instructions
of others who had themselves no authority. 6 Wend., 609; 4
Maule & Selw., 259; 6 East., 538; 1 Burr, 20; 2 Strange, 813;

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
&iles vs. Davis & Barton.

Saund., 47, e.; 2 Phil]. Ev., 126 The title of the plaintiffs
cannot be disputed by the commc n carrier to whom they were
delivered for transportation. Edw. on Bailments, 503,513, 535,
539. Mere notice to the defendant that a garnishee suit had
been commenced did not put the goods into the custody of the
law. It was a special proceeding under a statute, and the court
had no jurisdiction unless the statute was specially followed.
No application, affidavit, or bond is shown, and thb proceeding
is therefore unauthorized. 19 Johns., 39; 6 Wh., 119; 3
Carnes, 129; 1 Stat. of Ill., 229. Ex parte attachment proceedings must be in strict conformity with the statute. 2
Scam., 15, 17; 12 Ill. R., 358, 363; 22 Ill. R., 455. It is absurd to say that the goods were in the custody of the law before they were attached or levied on.
Mr. Justice NELSON. The case was this: The plaintiffs
below, Davis and Barton, had purchased the remnants of a
store of dry goods of the assignee of a firm at Janesville, Wisconsin, who had failed, and made an assignment for the benefit
of their creditors. The goods were packed in boxes, and delivered to the agents of the Union Despatch Company to be
conveyed by railroad to Ilion, Eerkimer county, New York.
On the arrival of the goods in Chicago, oui their way to the
plac.e of destination, they were seized by the sheriff, under an
attachment issued in behalf of the creditors of the insolvent
firm at Janesville, as the property of that firm, and the defendant, one of the proprietors and agent of the Union Despatch
Company at Chicago, was summoned as garnishee. The goods
were held by the sheriffE, under the attachment, until judgment
and execution, when they were sold. They were attached,
and the defendant summoned on the third of November, 1857;
and some days afterwards, and before the commencement of
this suit, which was on the sixteenth of the month, the plaintiffs made a demand on the defendant for their goods, which
was refused, on the ground he Lad been summoned as garnishee in the attachment suit.
The court below charged the jury, that any proceedings in
the State court to which the plaintiffs were not parties, and of

SUPREME COURT.
Sties vs. Davis & Barton.

which they had no notice, did not bind them or theirproperty;
and further, that the fact of the goods being garnished, as the
property of third persons, of itself, under the circumstances of
the case, constituted no bar to the action; but said the jury
might weigh that fact in determining whether or not there
was a conversion.
We think the court below erred. After the seizure of the
goods by the sheriff; under the attachment, they were in the
custody of the law, and the defendant could not comply with
the demand of the plaintiffs without a breach of it, even admitting the goods to have been, at the time, in his actual possession. The case, however, shows that they were in the possession of the sheriffs officer or agent, and continued there
until disposed of under the judgment upon the attachment. It
is true, that these goods had been delivered to the defendant,
as carriers, by the plaintiffs, to be conveyed for them to the
place of destination, and were seized under an attachment
against third persons; but this circumstance did not impair
the legal effect of the seizure or custody of the goods under it,
so as to justify the defendant in taking Them out of the hands
of the sheriff. The right of the sheriff to hold them was a
question of law, to be determined by the proper legal proceedings, and not at.the will of the defendant, nor that of the plaintiffs. The law on this subject is well settled, as may be seen
on a reference to the cases collected in sections 453, 290, 350,
of Drake on Attach't, 2d edition.
This precise question was determined in Verrall vs. -Robinson,
(Turwhitt's Exch. R., 1069; 4 Dowling, 242, S.0.) Therethe
plaintiff was a coach proprietor, and the defendant the owner
of a carriage depository in the city of London. One Banks
hired a chaise from the plaintiff, and afterwards left it at the
defendant's depository. While it remained there, it was attached in an action against Banks; and, on that ground, the
defendant refused to deliver it up to the plaintiff on demand,
although he admitted it to be his property.
Lord Abinger, C.B., observed, that the defendant's refusal
to deliver the chaise to the plaintiff was grounded on its being
on his premises, in the custody of the law. That this was no

DEOJIDMiER TERM, 1861.

107

Stiles vs. Davis & Barton.

evidence of a wrongful conversion to his own use. After ii
was attached as Banks's property, it was not in the custody oi
the defendant, in such a manner as to permit him to deliver it
up at all. And Alderson, B., observed: Had the defendant
delivered it, as requested, he would have been guilty of a breach
of law.
The plaintiffs have mistaken their remedy. They should
have brought their action against the officer who seized the
goods, or against the plaintiffs in the attachment suit, if the
seizure was made under their direction. As to these parties,
the process being against third persons, it would have furnished no justification, if the plaintiff could have maintained
a title and right to possession in themselves.
Judgment of the court below reversed, and venire de novo, &c.

