SU-PREME COURT.
Foster vs. Goddard.-Goddardvs. Foster.

proper to say, as the point had been fully argued, that this
court possessed no revising powers over the decrees of the.
District Court sitting in bankruptcy; that the District Court
had not interfered with, nor in any manner evaded or obstructed, the appellate authority of this court by its proceedings,
and the court knew of no case where the court is authorized
to issue a writ of prohibition to a District Court, except in the
cases expressly provided for by the 13th section of the judiciary
act of 1789-that is to say, where the District Courts are proceeding as courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
The result of this opinion is, that a prohibition cannot issue
from this court in cases where there is no appellate power
given by law, nor any special authority to issue the writ. We
concur in this opinion, and the rule applies with equal force to
the case before us as it did in the case referred to.
lotion refused.

FOSTER vs. GODDARD.-GODDARD VS. FOSTER.

1. An exception to a master's report is not in the nature of a special demurrer, and is not required to be so full and specific.
2. It is only necessary that the exception should distinctly point out the

finding and conclusion of the master which it seeks to reverse.
3. An exception so made brings up for examination all questions of fact
and law arising upon the report of the master, relative to that subject.
4. Where parties associated in trade contract that one partner shall receive a certain share of the profits arising from the sale of goods,
deducting "th'e actual expenses that may appertain to the goods
themselves," taxes, clerk-hire, and advertising are as clearly chargeable among these expenses as storage, commission or insurance.
Cross appeals from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts, pleadings, and points of this case are so fully stated
by Mr. Justice Swayne, that any other report of them cannot
be made without repeating what he has said in his opinion.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

507

Foster vs. Goddard.- Goddard vs. Foster.

Messrs. Bartlett and Shier, of Massachusetts, for cpmplainant.
Mr. Goodrich, of Massachusetts, for respondent.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE. These are cross appeals of the same
cause in equity. Foster is the complainant, and Goddard the
respondent. The record is voluminous. The questipns presented for our consideration are questions of fact. No legal
question arises in the case, with the exception of a single point
touchtng the form and effect of exceptions to a master's report.
The case involves nothing else that can be of interest in any
other case. We have considered it with all the care which the
magnitude of the amounts involved, and the fulness of prepara,
tion and ability with which it has been presented, demand at
our hands.
Upon some of the points pressed in the argument at bar, we
have found difficulty in reaching conclusions satisfactory to
ourselves, and such as we could all unite in. In the end, we
have been able to do so.
We adopt the analysis of the case presented in the opening
brief of the counsel of the complainants. It has the double
merit of brevity and extreme clearness:
"The bill alleges the execution by the parties of two several
contracts, bearing date, respectively, June 24, 1843, and May
7, 1849.
"By the first of these complainant was to proceed to Valparaiso, remain there five years, and devote himself exclusively
to the transaction of respondent's business, for which he was
to receive, at the end of said five years, a portion of the net
profits. By the second contract the complainaht was to proceed to the west coast of South America, and devote his time
to the management of respondent's business in those parts,
and also in Mexico and California, for which he was to receive,
on his return, a portion of the profits of the business, in the
trade which complainant should have conducted to completion.
This agreement also provided that complainant might terminate the contract at any time, by giving so much notice that
any voyage respondent might have commenced previous to the

SUPREME COURT.
Poster vs. Goddard.- Goddard vs. Poster.

receipt of such notice should receive the benefit of complainant's services to its final accomplishment. The prayer was
that an account might be taken, and respondent decreed to
pay complainant what was due.
"On the 3d of August, 1857, the respondent filed his answer, in which he admits the execution of said contracts, the
rendition of the services by said Foster, and the possession of
books of account, from which the amount, if any, due said
Foster can be ascertained; alleges reasons for his delay in
making up said accounts, and avers that the last mentioned
contract determined on 31st of December, 1850.
"On the 13th of August the complainant filed an amended
bill, setting forth more particularly the mode in which the
business was conducted, and the accounts kept and rendered
to respondent, through the house of Alsop & Co.
"To this respondent filed an answer on the 4th of September,
1857. To this the general replication was filed, and the cause,
by consent, was s~nt to a master to take an account, with
special instructions. On the 8th May, 1858, the complainant,
by leave of the court, withdrew his replication, and filed
another amendment, alleging an agreement between the parties,
that the second voyage of the ship Crusader should be taken
and deemed within the said first agreement. To this the respondent filed an answer denying the allegation: The general
replication was then filed, and the cause was then committed
to the same master, with instructions similar to those formerlj
given.
"The master made his report June 2d, 1858, to which'the
respondent alleged ten exceptions.
"The cause came on for hearing before the Circuit Court,
for the first circuit, at the October term, 1858. The learned
judge, by his decree, sustained the first and tenth of the exceptions, and overruled the rest, and ordered the master's report to be reformed accordingly, which was done.
"From this decree the complainant and the respondent severally appealed."
We have considered all these exceptions with care. The
argument at bar was confined chiefly to the first, second, third,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

509

Foster vs. Goddard.-Goddardvs. Foster.

and tenth. The complainant objects to the action of the court
touching the first and tenth, which were sustained. The defendant objects, because the second and third were overruled.
In regard to the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth
exceptions, it is sufficient to remark, that we see no reason to
doubt the correctness of the master's findings to which they
relate. In this we concur with the court below. They were
not pressed by the defendant's counsel in the argument at bar.
We deem it unnecessary to discuss the evidence, or the legal
views by which the master's conclusions are sustained.
Before proceeding to consider the four remaining exceptions, we deem it proper to advert to an objection made to
their form by the counsel for the complainant. It is said that
such an exception is in the nature of a special demurrer, and
that these are not so full and specific that the court can consider them.
Such is not the rule of this court. All that is necessary is,
that the exception should distinctly point out the finding and
conclusion of the master which it seeks to reverse. Having
done so, it brings up for examination all questions of fact and
of law arising upon the report of the master relative to that
subject. The exceptions in this case are sufficiently full.
They are in accordance with the experience of each member
of the court in the administration of equity jurisprudence elsewhere.
We come now to the consideration of the exceptions which
have been specially named.
"Second exception: For that the said master has erroneously charged this respondent with the sum of seventeen hundred and eighty-nine dollars and eighty-nine cents, the amount
of a loss made in the prosecution of the business aforesaid, by
a sale of goods to the New England Worsted Company, for
which they have not paid, but refuse to pay."
The master's report, touching this subject, is as follows:
"The company were charged, on the books of Goddard,
with the sum of $2,173 04, on the balance of an account due
for wool; but the amount due was in dispute between them
In 1850 or 1851 the company tendered in payment about

SUPIREME COURT.
Fostervs. Goddard.-Goddardvs: Foster.

$1,500, whie'h Goddard declined to receive. Nothing further
was done by either party until January, 1857, after the claim
had been outlawed three years, when the company offered the
sum of $1,789 89, but Mr. Goddard refused to receive it, and
also declined to permit Foster to receive his proportion of that
sum.
"It is contended by the respondent that he had a right to
conduct his own business in his own way, being responsible to
Foster only for any want of good faith, and that he was neither
bound to accept a sum less than what he believed to be due,
nor to institute a suit to recover what he claimed; and that if
any loss has thereby occurred, it is properly chargeable to the
business.
"The management of the business, including the collection
of the accounts, was under the absolute control of Goddard,
and in conducting it he was responsil~le, I think, only for the
exercise of good faith and ordinary diligence. He was not
bound to accept the sum less than what he believed to be due;
and if he had instituted a suit to recover the full amount, Foster would have undoubtedly been bound by the result. But
was be at liberty to do neither? As between parties situated
as were these, the authorized duty to collect being vested
solely in one, and the amount of the compensation, of the
other depending, in a measure, upon the manner in which
that duty should be performed, was it reasonable prudence or
diligence for Mr. Goddard to decline either to receive what
the debtor offered to pay, or to enforce the payment of what
he himself claimed to be due? It is well settled, that if executors or trustees allow a debt against a solvent debtor to become outlawed, they are chargeable with the amount."
There is no complaint that the master has misapprehended
the facts or stated them incorrectly. We are entirely satisfied
with the views he has expressed and the conclusion at which
he arrived.
"Third exception: For that the said master has allowed to the
complainant, under the contract of June 24th, 1843, one-tenth
of the profits made by this respondent in the construction and
subsequent sale of a vesaeI commonly called the Valdivia,

DEOEM13ER TERM, 1861.

511

Fostervs. Goddard.-Goddardvs. Foster.

which vessel was not employed in, nor put into, the business
of this respondent, carried 'on under the contract aforesaid."
Upon this subject the master reported:
"This was a new ship, built by Mr. Ewell under a contract
made by him with Mr. Goddard; w s launched on the 15th of
October, 1846, and was sold by Mr. Goddard to the United
States Government the 7th December, 1846, at a profit. The
validity of this claim depends upon the construction to be
given to the following clause in the agreement of 1843:
"And furthermore, said Goddard has the right of purchasing, selling, and chartering the vessels designed for the trade,
at his option, the loss or profit attendant thereon to be charged
or credited in the general account. It is also understood that
said Foster's interest of one-tenth is liable to the full extent
for all the risks-and casualties in the business, attendant upon
the goods and vessels.
"This vessel was never actually employed in the business of
this trade. On the other hand, there is evidence tending to
prove that she was originally c6ntracted for by Mr. Goddard,
was built and was designed for this trade; that Mr. Goddard
had engaged a part.of her outward cargo; that these facts were
communicated by him to Mr. Foster; and that, under instructions from him, Mr. Foster had procured a portion of her first
return cargo. She was sold, (so far as the evidence shows,)
however, before any cargo had been laden on board of her at
Boston.

"March 17th, 1846, Goddard wrote t&Foster: 'I have contracted for a new ship of 550 tons, in the hopes of having one
that will make her outward passage in sixty-five or seventy
days; what shall be her name? I understand that Valdivia,
the name of a province,' &c.
"Again, August 22d, 1846: 'Capt. Millet waits for the Valdivia, which will be despatched in November.'
"October 12th: ' The Valdivia will be launched to-morrow,
and will be our next ship. She will not, however, sail earlier
than the 1st to the 15th December, it being impossible to obtain any cotton goods before that time, although engaged some
time since.'

SUPREME COURT.
Toster vs. Goddard.-Goddardvs. Foster.

"October 13th, the next day: 'Don't sell anything to arrive
by the Valdivia.'
"January 5th: 'Doubtless you will be surprised, perhaps disappointed, in seeing this vessel (the Santiago) instead of the
new ship; but the truth is, I have been tempted to sell her to
our Government for some nine or ten thousand dollars above
cost, cash in hand. She is now called the Supply.'
I it is contended by the respondent, that the complainant
-was only entitled to a share of the profits of such vessels as
were actually employed in the trade, and not of those which
might have been designed for the business, but not actually
employed in it; that although Goddard may have intended the
Valdivia for this trade, yet that he abandoned that intention
before carrying it into effect, and that the agreement of 1843
did not restrict him from pursuing business on his private
account.
"This agreement contemplated not only the employment necessarily of vessels carrying on this trade, but also as subservient to the main business, the dealing in vessels to a certain
degree as subjects of trade; and this branch of the business
was under the exclusive control of Goddard. It may be true
that he was at liberty to pursue other business; but none the
less for that reason was all that appertained to this agreement
a distinct and independeut business, and so to be preserved.
Whatever act Goddard did, he did it with reference to one
business or the other; either for the joint or for his private account. Whatever property was procured by him was procured
eo instantifor one business or the other, and thereafter belonged
to that business, and its character in this respect could not depend upon any subsequent purpose of Goddard, suggested by
the results of the particular adventure. The proper effect,
therefore, of the fact that Mr. Goddard was not restricted from
other business is, that he was thereby bound still further, if
possible, to preserve, with the most scrupulous exactness and
good faith, the two businesses entirely distinct, marked and
unconflicting, so that there should be neither temptation nor
opportunity, after having procured a vessel on one account, to
subsequently change its destination, according as the adven

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Postervs. Goddard.-Goddardvs. Foster.

ture promised a profit or a loss. Whatever Goddard did under
this agreement was at the common risk, and for the common
benefit. If, in the honest exercise of his discretion, he had
purchased a vessel for this trade, which proved immediately
after the purchase wholly unfit for the business, and she was
sold at a loss, can it be doubted that this loss would have been
properly chargeable in the general account? On the other
hand, if he had purchased, or by mutual consent had built a vessel for this trade, and the same had been sold at a profit before
being 6mployed, that profit,'as it seems to me, equally belongs
to the general account."
We have only to add, that if the Valdivia had been burned
at any time before she was sold, we cannot doubt that Foster,
under the circumstances, must have borne his share of the
loss. He could not be liable if loss were to be borne, and excluded if profit were made.
The following is the first exception. It was sustained by
the court:
"First exception: For that the said master has not allowed
to the said respondent, and has not permitted him to debit the
business of this respondent, carried on by him under the contract dated June 24, 1843, sundry sums of money paid by the
said respondent in the regular and usual course of his said
business for clerk-hire, taxes, and advertising, to wit: thirty-

eight hundred and thirty-eight dollars and sevehty-eight cents
for clerk-hire, seventeen hundred and eleven dollars and ninety
cents for taxes assessed upon the property employed in said
business, and three hundred dollars paid for advertising his
said business; the said sums amounting in the aggregate to
fifty-eight hundred and fifty dollars and sixty-eight cents, all
which were proper expenditures in the course of the said business."
The solution of the question presented by this exception
must depend upon the construction given to the following
clause of the first agreement between the parties:
"In consideration of which said Goddard engages that said
Foster shall, at the expiration of five years, be entitled to onetenth of the net profits of his business in that trade, after deVOL. i.

33

• 514

SUPRENfE COURT.
Foster vs. Goddard.- GoddardZ vs. Foster.

ducting interest, at the rate of six per cent. per annuii, on the
capital invested; and all costs and expenses of whatever name
and nature that may be incurred, both at home and abroad, in
sailing, victualling, manning, keeping in repair the vessels
employed, including all port charges, as also the actual expenses that may appertain to the goods themselves, including
the cost of said Foster's living, which is not to exceed six
hundred dollars per annum."
If the charges for taxes, clerk-hire, and advertising claimed
are allowed, it must be under the terms, "the actual expenses
that may appertain to the goods themselves." We are all of
opinion that those terms are comprehensive enough to include
these items. It was certainly not the intention of the parties
that the defendant should make a donation by any expenditure
in the business. The computation should be made as if he
were engaged in no other business. The items in question are
as much a part of "the actual expenses," appertaining "to the
goods themselves," as storage, commission, or insurance. They
rest on the same foundation, and the same language in the contract which affords a warrant for including the latter applies
with equal force to the former.
"Tenth exception: For that the said master has allowed the
complainant one-fourth of the profits made by this respondent
in the use and employment of a vessel called the Harriet Erving, and its cargoes, during her third voyage, which was not
sought to be recovered by the complaipant in his original or
amended bill, which vessel and cargoes, and the profits resulting therefrom during the said voyage, were not embraced in
the contract of May 7th, 1849, nor by any contract or agreement made by the respondent with the complainant, but were
solely and exclusively at the profit and loss of the respondent."
The provisions of the contract of 1849, to be considered in
connection with this exception, are as follows:
"That said Foster engages to proceed at once to the n est
coast of South America, and that he will devote his whole time
in those parts, as also in Mexico and California, exclusively to
the manageraent of all said Goddard's business in those countries, such as the sale and purchase of merchandise, and any

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.

515

Poster vs. Goddard.-Goddardvs. Foster.

other property, collecting freight moneys, procuring freights
and consignments of goods, eliciting orders for the purchase
and shipment of property, investing money, drawing and negotiating bills of exchange, and forwarding all the information
that can be obtained respecting the trade; in fine, to transact
any and all business that may be required of him by said Goddard, in accordance with his instructions and best interests,
which he is also to care for, and protect from impositions, unjust charges, and also extravagant expenditures of the shipmasters, to the best of his ability.
In consideration for which, said Goddard engages that said
"C
Foster shall, on his return, be entitled to one-fourth part of
the net profits of his business in that trade that he (said Foster) shall have conducted to completion, after deducting, &c.
"It is understood that said Foster is to leave in the hands
of said Goddard, bearing interest, what funds he may haveless two thousand dollars, to be paid him before leaving this
country-and that neither the same nor any portion of his profits
shall be abstracted, until he shall see fit to withdraw from the
present arrangement, which he is at liberty to do at any time,
by giving said Goddard so much notice that any voyage he
may have commenced previous to receipt of such advice shall
receive the full benefit of all said Foster's services to its final
accomplishment, and not otherwise. It is also understood that
said Goddard has the right to annul this agreement whenever
he may choose to do so; and furthermore, that said Foster is
liable to the full extent of his interest and means for all the
losses that may be made in this business, as also for all the
risks and casualties attendant thereoui."
It is not material to inquire whether this agreement made
the parties co-partners. It provided a definite mode of terminating the agreement by Foster. Pursuant to that provision,
Foster, on the 22d of February, 1850, addressed a letter to
Goddard, giving him notice that he proposed to join the house
ofAlsop & Go., of Valparaiso, on the 1st of January following,
and on the 'day preceding to terminate the agreement between
Goddard and himself. In that letter he said:
* * * "After our long and satisfactory connection to-

516

OUPREME COURT.
Foster vs. Goddard.-Goddardvs. Foster.

gether, I must say that I leave it with many regrets; and I
doubt not but the feeling is mutual. The truth is, however,
that'the connection, to a certain extent, will still exist. But,
by the articles of this house, no active partner can have any
interest out of the establishment, and they are bound down in
the most particular manner."
The letter, it seems, was received by Goddard about the 1st
of April, 1850. On the 13th of that month he replied in a
letter to Foster, "I am very glad to learn your decision to join
the house, it being what I would have advised for your own
interest."
In Foster's reply of the 29th of May, 1850, he says:
*
*
*
"I did not expect you would be able to say
whether you intended sending Mr. Erring immediately or not.
Be that as it may, you may rely with safety upon my exertions
and interest in your favor as much as ever, and also as if you
had an agent upon the spot."
On the 1st of January, 1851, Foster, according to the notice
given by his letter of the 22d of February, 1850, entered the
house of Alsop &.Co. From that time new relations subsisted
between him and Goddard. He ceased to be bound or able to
"devote his whole time in those parts, as also in Mexico and
California, exclusively to the management of said Goddard's
business in those countries, such as," &c., (see contract.)
All the requirements of the contract as to Foster's services
were the consideration of Goddard's agreement as to Foster's
zompensation. After the 1st of January, 1851, Foster could
not, as an honest man, without the consent of Alsop & Co.,
(which is not shown,) have "any interest out of the establishment." According to the notice given by Foster, and accepted
by Goddard, the contract between them was to terminate on
the 81st of December, 1850. The complainant's bill avers that
it did then terminate.
"And your orator further showeth that the said co-partner-ship business was forthwith entered upon and conducted by
your said orator and the said Goddard until the thirty-first
day of December, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and fifty,
when the said agreement was terminated by the said orator's

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Foster vs. Goddard.- Goddard vs. Foster.

giving due notice to the said Goddard in the manner provided
for in and by said agreement."
The Harrit Erving sailed from Boston for Valparaiso 'pon
the voyage in question on the 21st of August, 1850, more than
four months after Goddard received Foster's notice. She arrived at Valparaiso on the 8th of December, 1850; sailed for
Coquimbo on the 27th of the same month; for Talcuhano
on the 4th of January, 1851; and in the same month for
Boston, where she arrived on the Tt. of April, 1851. The
new agent of Goddard arrived at Valparaiso about the 1st
of November, 1851. The selling of the Harriet Erving's
outward cargo commenced soon after. her arrival at Valparaiso, and was continued down to June, 1853. The entire amount of the net proceeds was $205,620 74. All
the sales were made by Alsop & Co., who received commissions amounting in the aggregate to $9,736 26. Nearly one,half of the cargo in value was sold before Foster entered the
house of Alsop & Co. Upon that part which was sold after
that time, he was entitled to a share of the commissions, as a
member of that firm. Before Foster entered the house, all
sales, in the course of the business, had in form been made by
Alsop & Co., who received a commission for both selling and
guaranteeing. The homeward cargo of the Harriet Erving had
all been provided by Foster before her arrival at Valparaiso.
Numerous letters from Goddard to Foster are produced, containing isolated expressions, which seem to imply that' he regarded Foster as having an interest of some sort in this voyage
of the vessel.
After a careful examination of this part of the case, we are
brought to the following conclusions:
1. That the agreement of May 7,1849, was wholly put an
end to on the 31st day of December, 1850, by the parties, in
the manner therein provided.
2. Its termination at that time was not waived by either of
the parties.
3. If it were not terminated at that time we should be compelled, under the circumstances, to regard the averment of the
bill upon that subject as conclusive.

SUPREME COURT.
Hoyt vs. Swldm.
In equity proceedings the proofs and allegations must agree.
A party can no more succeed upon a case proved, but not alleged, than upon a case alleged, but not proved. 9 Cranch,
19, Simms vs. Guthrie et al.; 9 Pet., 483, HMarrisonvs. Nxon;
10 id., 178, Boone vs. Chiles; 3 Barb's C. R., 613, Tri/p vs. Vincent et al.; 3 Ohio R., 61, Bank United States vs. Shultz; 5 Dana,
552, Sadler vs. Grover; 1 J. J. Marsh, 237, Breckenridge vs.

Ormsby.
4. That the complainant not having "conducted to completion," within the life of the contract, "the business in that
trade" growing out of this voyage of the Harriet Erving, that
branch of the case is not within the contract of May 7th, 1849,
and hence not before us.
It follows, in our judgment, that the court decided correctly
in sustaining this exception.
It may be that the complainant has a valid claim to be paid
for his services under an implied contract upon the principle
of quantum meruit. But as that is an inquiry outside of the
ease as now before us, it is neither necessary nor proper that
we should express any opinion upon the subject.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed, with costs.

HOYT VS. SHELDEN, Ex'R OF THOMPSON, AND THE LONG ISLAND
RAILROAD COMPANY.

1. This court cannot review the proceedings of a State court, on the
ground that the judgment or decree violates the Federal Constitution, unless it appears from the record that the point was distinctly
raised in the court below.
2 The clause in the Constitution on which the party relies, and the right
claimed under it, must have been called to the attention of the
court, and the decision of the court, with the subject so before it,
must have been against the right claimed; otherwise no writ of
error will lie.
In error to the Superior Court of the city of Nhew Yoik.
This was a writ of error to the Superior Court of the city of

