SUPREME COURT.
'The Steamer St. Lawrence.

in dispute by the authority of the court, which, he alleges,
transferred the title to the vendee, under whom he claims, and
charges that the assignment set up by the defendants was fraudulent and void, for the reasons stated in his bill. But all of
the matters put in issue by the bill and answers, and decided

by the State court, were questions which depended for their
decision upon principles of law and equity, as recognised and
administered in the State of :New York, and without reference
to the construction or effect of any provision in the Constitution, or any act of Congress. This court has no appellate power
over the judgment of a State court pronounced in such a controversy, and this writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.

THE STEAMER ST. LAwRENCE-Meyer et al., Claimants; Tapper

et al., Libellants.
1. The jurisdiction of the Federal courts in admiralty and maritime
aaes is given in general terms by the Constitution, and the extent
of it is to be ascertained by a reasonable and just construction of
the words used when taken in connection with the whole instrument.
2. No State can enlarge i.t, nor can an act of Congress or rule of court
make it broader than the judicial power may determine to be its
true limits.
3. Congress may prescribe the forms and mode of proceeding in the
tribunals it establishes to carry this power into execution.
4. Brief history of the legislation of Congress upon this subject.
5. Congress has given to this court the authority to alter and change
the forms and i odes of proceeding, and it was under this authority
that the 12th rule of admiralty practice was made in 1844, which
permitted a proceeding in rem wherever the State law gave a lien.
6. It was by virtue of the same authority that the rule was changed in
1858, and the privilege denied to a suitor of taking out process in
?em, on the mere ground that State law made his claim a lien.
7. But the abrogation of the rule of 1844 by that of 1858 dies not
imply that the court had become convinced, in the interval, that it
wanted jurisdiction in cases to which the former rule applied. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
The Steamer St. Lawrence.

abrogation meant merely that various considerations made it advisable not to permit that particular form of process to be used by persons who might claim it on the sole ground that the State law gave
them a lien, where none was given by the maritime code.
8 The courts could not enlarge or diminish their own jurisdiction by
a rule of practice, but they have power over their'own process and
mode of procedure, and it was in the exercise of this latter power
that the rule of 1844 was both made and repealed.
9. The change in the rule was prospective in its operation, and does not
defeat a suit previously commenced.
10. A lieu for supplies is not waived by a material man who accepts the
notes of the owner for the amount due, if it was understood by the
parties that the lien should continue.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York.
William HT. Meyer and Edwin R. Wilcox filed their libel in
the District Court against the steamer St. Lawrence, her engine, tackle, apparel, &c., for supplies to the value of $2,500,
payment of which had been demanded and refused. The libellants averred that the St. Lawrence had been in the port of
New York ever since the supplies were furnished, and they
had a lien on her by the law of the State. (Rev. St., Title viii,
Ch. 8.) Lewis 1H. Meyer and Edward Stucken made claim as
owners, and answered to the libel that the supplies were furnished on the credit of John Graham, and not of the vessel;
that the libellants settled and accounted for them with Graham, took his notes for the amount algreed on, and discharged
the vessel; that the respondents are bonafide purchasers of the
vessel, in goQd faith, without notice of the libellants' claim.
The evidence taken in'the cause showed that the supplies
were furnished, the amount and value being ascertained to the
satisfaction of the claimants' proctor. It was proved also that
John Graham was the owner of the vessel at the ,time, and
that he gave his notes for the amount of the libellants' claim,
but it was expressiy stipulated between him and the libellants
that their lien against the vessel should not be discharged or
released unless the notes were paid. The notes were after.

SUPREME COURiT.
The Steamer St. Lawrence.

wards surrendered. The claimants purchased the vessel after
all these transactions, and there is no proof that they had any
notice of the libellants' claim against her.
The District Court decreed in favor of the libellants; the
decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court, and the claimants
appealed.
Mr. Lane, of New York, for the claimants, argued that this
contract was not within the admiralty jurisdiction, and cited
The General Smith, (4 Wheaton, 438;) -Prattvs. Reed, (19 How.,
359;) Maguire vs. Gan, (21 How., 248;) The John Jay, (17
How., 400;) 2 Brown Civ. Law, 116.
The rule of the Supreme Court does not give jurisdiction.
The power to make rules is in the act of Congress, 5 Stat. at
Large, 518, but does not authorize the opening of the court to
a suitor or shutting it on him.
IF there was a lien, it was waived by taking notes on time
for the amount of the supply. Innocent purchasers for value
could not be affected as with a lien upon the vessel while the
claim of the libellant was in that condition. The Bark Shusan,
(2 Story, 468;) The Brig Chester, (1 Sumner, 86;) The Schooner
Action, (Alcott, 288;) Ramsey vs. Allegre, (12 Wheaton, 613.)
Mr. Williams, of New York, for the libellants. This contract
is in its nature a maritime contract. 2 Brown, Civil and Maritime Law, 75; Conkling's Admiralty, 52; 1 Kent, 879; 3 Kent,
168; Jacobs and Sea Laws; Life of Sir Leoline Jenkins, vol.
I, 16; The Favorite, (2 C. Robinson, 226;) The General Smith,
(4 Wheaton, 438;) Ramsey vs. Allegre, (12 Wheaton, 611;) Andrews vs. Wall, (3 How., 568;) Peyroux vs. Howard, (7 Pet.,
324.)
The Federal courts have jurisdiction in all cases of maritime
contracts, and will give to the libellants the relief they are entitled to. The local law giving a lien upon the vessel, this
"nnrf will enforce that lien. Conling, 57; Z'Ivcw Orleans vs.
Phebus, (11 How., 184;) Roach vs. Chapman, (22 How., 132;)
Benedict's Admiralty, 11; 5 Cran Dh, 61; 1 Pet., 328; The
Pacific, (1 Blatchford, 585.)

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

525

Tke Steamer St. Lawrence.

The rule of court does not affect the right of tLe libellants.
The jurisdiction is not derived from the rule. It might be in
conflict with the right to sue in this particular form, if the
change bad taken place before the suit was commenced. But
it was made afterwards, and is prospective.
Mr. Chief Justice TAN-EY. This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court for the southern district of New
York, sitting as a court of admiralty.
The case as presented by the transcript is this: The appellees
in the summer and fall of 1855 were requested by John Graham, the owner of the steamer St. Lawrence, who resided in
New York, to make sundry repairs to the vessel, and to furnish materials for that purpose. The steamboat was then lying in the harbor of New York, which was her home port.
The libel states that at the time these repairs were made, and
materials found, the laws of New York gave them a lien for
the amount on the vessel; and they pray that the steamer may
be condemned and sold to satisfy their claim. The application
for process against the vessel was founded upon the 12th rule
of admiralty practice, prescribed by this court in 1844, (3
HEow.,) which authorized this mode of proceeding, where the
local law gave a lien upon the vessel for supplies or repairs in
a domestic port. This rule was altered at December term,
1858, and process in rem denied to the party unless a lien was
given by the maritime law. The alteration took effect on the
1st of May, 1859, (21 Row.,) and the libel in this case was
filed, while the former rule was still in force.
There is no question as to the amount due, the proctor for
the claimants having assented to the report of the commissioners. But the claimants allege in their answer, that these
materials were furnished and repairs made upon the personal
credit of Graham, and that the libellants accounted with him,
and took his notes for the amount after the work was done.
They allege further, that they afterwards purchased the vessel
from Graham in good faith, and without notice of this claim;
and insist, that as the lien claimedis not created by the maritime law, but solely by a statute of New York, it cannot be

SUPREME COURT.
The Steamer St. Lawrence.

enforced in a court of admiralty, because a statute of a State
cannot enlarge the jurisdiction of a court of the United States.
With reference to the last mentioned objection, it may be
proper to notice it, more particularly as it is founded upon a
misconception of the object and effect of the rules above mentioned.
The objection is founded upon the assumption, that these
rules involve a question as to the extent of the admiralty jurisdiction granted by the Constitution. And as the court
could not, consistently with its duty, refuse to exercise a power
with which it was' clothed by the Constitution and laws, the
appellants insist that the alteration made by the rule in 1858
must be regarded as an admission that the court had fallen
into error when it adopted the rule of 1844, and had exercised
a jurisdiction beyond its legitimate boundary; and if the admiralty court had not the right to enforce a State lien in a case
of this kind, the rule then in force could not enlarge its jurisdiction, nor authorize the decree of the Circuit Court which
supported and enforced this lien.
The argument would be unanswerable, if the alteration related to jurisdiction; for the court could not, consistently with
its duty, refuse to exercise a power which the Constitution
and law had clothed it, when its aid was invoked by a party
who was entitled to demand it as a matter of right.
But there is a wide difference between the power of the
court upon a question of jurisdiction and its authority over its
mode of proceeding and process. And the alteration in the
rules applies altogether to the character of the process to be
used in certain cases, and has no relation to the question of
jurisdiction.
Judicial power, in all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, is delegated by the Constitution to the Federal Government in general terms, and courts of this character had
then been established in all commercial and maritime nations,
differing, however, materially in different countries in the powers and duties confided to them; the extent of the jurisdiction
conferred depending very mlich upon the character of the government in which they were created; and this circumstance,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
The Steamer St. Lawrence.

with the general terms of the grant, rendered it difficult to define the exact limits of its power in the United States.
This difficulty was increased by the complex character of
our Government, where separate and distinct specified powers
of sovereignty are exercised by the United States and a State
independently of each other within the same territorial limits.
And the reports of the decisions of this court will show that
the subject has often been before it, and carefully considered,
without being able to fix with precision its definite boundaries;
but certainly no State law can enlarge it, nor can an act of
Cohgress or rule of court make it broader than the judicial
power may determine tobe its true limits. And this -boundary
is to be ascertained by a reasonable and just construction of
the words used in the Constitution, taken in connection with
the whole ins trument, and the purposes for which admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction was granted to the Federal Government.
Yet Congress may undoubtedly prescribe the forms and
mode of proceeding in the judicial tribunals if establishes to
carry this power into execution; and may authorize the court
to proceed by an attachment against the property, or by the
arrest of the person, -as the Legislature shall deem most expedient to promote the purposes of justice.
A brief history of the legislation of Congress upon this subject will explain the grounds upon which the rule of 1844 was
adopted, and also the reason that induced the court to change
it; and will also show that no question of jurisdiction was
supposed to be.involved in the adoption of the original rule,
nor in the change that was afterwards made.
After the passage of the judiciary act of 1789, Congress, at
the same session, passed the act prescribing the process to be
used in the different courts ithad just established, (1 Stat., 93;)
and by that act directed that, in the courts of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, the forms and modes of proceeding
should be according to the course of the civil law.
This act left no discretionary power in the admiralty courts,
or in the Supreme Court, in relation to the modes and forms
of proceeding. And it is evident, that if the courts of admiralty in this country used the process in rem, or process by

SUPREME COURT.
The Steamer St. Lawrence.

attachment of the property, in all cases in which it was authorized in countries governed by the civil law, it would unavoidably in some cases come in collision with the common law
courts of the State where the parties resided, and where the
property was situated, and where other parties besides the
owners or builders, or equippers of the ship, might have an interest in, or a claim upon, the property, which they had a right
to assert in the courts of the State.
But this difficulty was soon seen and removed. And by the
act of May 8, 1792, (1 Stat., 275,) these forms and modes of
proceeding are to be according to the principles, rules, and
usages which belong to courts of admiralty, as contradistinguished from courts of common law. And these forms and
modes of proceeding are made subject to such alterations and
additions as the respective courts might deem expedient, "or
to such regulations as the Supreme Court of the United States
shall think proper from time to time by rule to prescribe to
any Circuit or District Court concerning the same." And the
power here conferred upon this court was afterwards enlarged
by the act of August 23, 1842.
It was under the authority of these two acts that the rule
of which we are now speaking was made in 1844; and afterwards, by virtue of the same authority, altered by the rule
adopted at December term, 1858.
It was manifestly proper, and perhaps necessary, that this
power should be confided to the court; for, it being the province of this court to determine what cases came within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States, its
process and mode of proceeding in such cases should be so
framed as to avoid collision with the State authorities, where
rights of property were involved, over which the State had a
right to legislate, without trespassing upon the authority of
the General Government. The power was, therefore, given to
the court, not only to make rules upon this subject, but to
make them from time to time, so that, if any new difficulty
should arise, it might be promptly obviated, and the modes of
proceeding and the process of the admiralty courts so moulded
as to accomplish that object.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

529

The Steamer St. Lawrence.

The case of The General Smith (4 Wheat., 438) was decided
upon these principles, and the right to procepd against the
property regarded as a mere question of process and not of jurisdiction. And the court held that where, upon the principles of the maritime code, the supplies are presumed to be
furnished on the credit of the vessel, or where a lien is given
by the local law, the party is entitled to proceed in rem in the
admiralty court to enforce it; but where the supplies are presumed by the maritime code to be furnished on the personal
credit of the owner or master, and the local law gives him no
lien, although the contract is maritime, yet he must seek his
remedy against the person, and not against the vessel. In
either case, the contract is equally within the jurisdiction of a
court of admiralty. And it is obvious, from this decision, that
the court considered the process in rem or priority given for repairs or supplies to a domestic vessel by the courts of admiralty,
in those countries where the principles of the civil law have
been adopted, as forming no part of the general maritime code,
bht as local laws, and therefore furnishing no precedent for
similar cases where the local law is otherwise; consequently
they form no part of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
conferred on the Government of the United States. This case
was decided in 1819, and has always since been followed and
regarded as a leading one in the admiralty courts. Its authority was recognised in the -cases of Peyroux vs. Howard, (7 Pet.,
824;) and The New Orleans vs. Phoebus, (11 Pet., 275,)'and in
others to which it is unnecessary to refer. And while process
against the vessel was denied in the case of Te General Smith,
because the law of Maryland gave no lien or priority, it was
used and supported in the case of .Peyroux vs. Howard-a similar case -upon the ground, that the party had a lien on the
vessel by the law of Louisiana, and as the contract was within
its jurisdiction, it ought to give him all the rights he had acquired under it; yet, certainly, the court never supposed that
the admiralty jurisdiction was broader in. Louisiana than in
Maryland.
When this court framed the rules in 1844, it, of course, adVOL. i.

34

SUPREME COURT.
The Steamer St. Lawrence.

hered to the practice'adopted in the previous cases, and by the
12th rule authorized the process in rem where the party was
entitled to a lien under the local or State law. But in the
rules then adopted, this rule as well as the others are explicitly
adopted as "a rule of practice," and, consequently, liable to be
altered from time-to time, whenever it was found to be inconvenient, or likely to embarrass the legitimate business of the
court. And there could be no embarrassing difficulties in
using the ordinary process in rem, of the civil law, if the State
law gave the lien in general terms, without specific conditions
or limitations inbonsistent with the rules and principles which
governed implied .maritime liens; and whenever this was the
case, the process to enforce it promoted the convenience and
facilities of trade and navigation by the promptness of its proceedings. It disposed at once of the whole controversy, without subjecting the party to the costs and delay of a proceeding in the chancery or common law courts of the State, to obtain the henefit of his lien, if he failed to obtain satisfaction in
his suit against the person in the court of admiralty.
The State lien, however, was enforced, not as a right which
the court was bound to carry into execution upon the application of the .party, but as a discretionary power, which the court
might lawfully exercise for the purposes of justice, where it did
not involve controversies beyond the limits of admiralty jurisdiction. In. many of the States, however, the laws were found
not to harmonize with the principles and rules of the maritime
code. Certain conditions and forms of proceeding are usually
required to obtain the lien, and it is generally declared forfeited or regarded as waived after the lapse of a certain time,
or upon some future contingency. These conditions and limitations differ in different States, and if the process in rem is
used wherever the local law gives the lien, it will subject the
admiralty court to the necessity of examining and expounding
the varying lien laws of every State, and of carrying them into
execution, and that, too, in controversies where the existence
of the lien is denied, and the right depends altogether on a
disputed construction of a State statute, or, indeed, in some

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

531

The ,Steamer St. Lawrenwe.

cases of conflicting claims under statutes of different States,
when the vessel has formerly belonged to the port of another
State, and become subject to a lien there by the State law.
Such duties and powers are appropriate to the courts of the
State which created the lien, and are entirely alien to the purposes for which the admiralty power was created, and form
no part of the code of laws which it was established to administer.
Moreover, cases may, and, indeed, have arisen, where a third
party claimed a lien prior and superior to that of the libellant
under the provisions of a State statute. And where such a
controversy arises in a proceeding in rem, the admiralty court
clearly has not power to decide it, and adjust the priorities in
dispute, and would be compelled to abandon and recall its
process whenever the controversy assumed that shape. '
*The proceeding, therefore, in rem, upon the ground that the
local law gave the lien, where none was given by the maritime
code, was found upon experience to be inapplicable to our
mixed form of Government. It was found to be inconvenient
in most cases, and absolutely impracticable in others, and the
rule which sanctioned it was therefore repealed. And the repealing rule provided, that the new rule should not go into
operation until the day named in it, because it would have
been unjust to those who had already proceeded under the
rule of 1844: or might institute proceedings under it before
they were aware of the alteration, to subject them to costs
and delay by a sudden and unexpected change of a rule of
practice.
The case before us was commenced before the change in the
rule; and, as there was an undoubted lien acquired under the
State law, we think the court had a right to enforce it upon
the principles above stated, since no provision of the New
York statute, as far as it affected the case, was inconsistent
with a maritime lien; and the execution of the process involved no inquiries beyond the legitimate authority of the
court.
The remaining question is, has this lien been forfeited or
waived? It does not appear to have been forfeited or waived

SUPREME COURT.
The Steamer S1. Lawrence.

under any provision in the New York statute, nor was it
waived upon the principles of maritime law by the acceptance
of Graham's notes, unless the claimants can show that the
libellants agreed to receive them in lieu of and in place of
their original claim. The notes, in this instance, have been
surrendered, and were filed in the proceedings in the District
Court. And the language of the court in the case of -Ramsey
vs. Allegre, (12 Wheat., 611,) and of Judge Story in commenting upon that case in 3d How., 573, necessarily imply that if
the notes had been surrendered, the party would have a right
to stand upon his original contract, and to seek his remedy in
the forum to which it originally belonged, as fully as if the
notes had never been given.
In this case the proof is positive, by the testimony of a witness who was present at the time the notes were given, that it
was understood by the parties that they were not to discharge
or affect his liei, and that the vessel was to continue liable for
his claim as before. And although the respondents appear to
have purchased without notice of this incumbrance, their want
of caution in this respect cannot deprive the libellants bf a
legal right, which they have done nothing to forfeit.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with costs.

