SUPREME COURT.
Attorney Generalvs. FederalStreet Aeeling-wuse.

ATTORNEY GENERAL VS. FEDERAL STREET MEETING-HOUSE.

1. This court has no jurisdiction to review the proceedings of a State
court merely on the ground that the defendant is a body politic,
incorporated by an act of the State Legislature.
2. To sustain a writ of error from this court to the State court in such a
case, it must appear from the pleadings, evidence, or decree, that
the validity of the act of incorporation was drawn in question.
3. The validity of the act is not drawn in question where the defendants
assert that they and those under whom they claim were owners of
the land in dispute before the passage of the act, as well as afterwards, and where the plaintiffs assert title in themselves under a
deed in no way connected with the act.
4. Where the act incorporating the defendants was a mere enabling act,
passed while they were in possession, and intended for their convenience as owners, and other persons claim to be the true owners,
the issue is on the original rights of the parties, withQut respect to
the defendant's charter.
Writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Massachusetts.
The Attorney General of Massachusetts, at the reoation of
the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Synod of the State of
:New York, and others, ministers, elders, and members of the
Presbyterian Church, filed an information in the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts against the proprietors of the
Meeting-house in Federal street, Boston, alleging that the
land on which said meeting-house is built was conveyed in
1735, by its then proprietor, to trustees, to be held as a place for
the preaching and maintaining of the doctrine, worship, and
form of government of the Presbyterian Church of Scotland,
which was Calvinistic and Trinitarian, teaching the Westminster confession of faith and catechisms; that the meetinghouse continued to be used according to the trust expressed
in the deed 'until 1786, when various changes were introduced
into the Society, and it became Congregational;that this lasted
until 1815, when the trust was wholly perverted and abused
by the conversior of the congregation into a UnitarianSociety.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

263

Attorney General -vs. Federal Street Reeting-house.

In 1805, (while it was a Congregational Church,) the Legislature of Massachusetts incorporated "all persons who now are
or who may hereafter be the proprietors of pews in the Congregational meeting-house situate on Federal street, Boston,"
by. the name of "The Proprietors of the Meeting-house in
Federal street, in the town of Boston," and declared that
the said corporation should be deemed seized of the meetinghouse, with its appurtenances, &c. The answer of the defendants sets forth, among other things, the act of incorporation, and avers that they were in possession long before the
passage of that act; that they were in possession at the time
of its passage, and have remained in possession ever since, as
the undisputed owners of the premises. The State court dismissed the information, (3Gray, 1,) and this writ of error was
taken by the relators.

.7i r. Bartlett, of Massachusetts, for the defendants, moved
the court to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction.
The judgment (he said) is sought to be reversed, and the power
of this court to do it rests solely on the ground that the act
incorporating the defendants was unconstitutional, whereas it
does not appear that the validity of that act was in any manner drawn into controversy. Even if the validity of the act
had been a question in the court below, and its validity had
been sustained, there are various other grounds within the
exclusive cognizance of the State court upon which this judgment must be affirmed.
The doctrine is now firmly established, that to give this court
jurisdiction, it must appear by the record, or by clear and
necessary intendment, that the question on which the jurisdiction is founded must have been raised, and must have been
decided, in order to,have induced the judgment. Crowell
vs. Randall, (10 Peters, 368, 398.) That the question was
necessarily involved in the decision, and that the State court
could not have given the judgment or decree which they
passed without deciding it. Armstrong vs. 1reasurer,t., (16
Peters, 281, 285;) Mills vs. Brown, (16 Peters, 525;) Smith vs.
.Hunter,(7How., 738;) Neilson vs. Lagow, (12 How., 98, 109;1

SUPREME COURT.
.Atornj General vs. Federal Street Mfeetling-house.

Williams vs. Oliver, (12 How., 111, 124;) Grand GulfY . R. vs.
Marshall, (12 How., 165, 167;) Lawler vs. Walker, (14 How.,
149, 155;) Maxwell vs. NAewbold, (18 How., 511, 515;) Christ
Church vs. Philadelphia, (20 How., 26, 28.) It must appear
either on the bill or answer, or decree of the court. Mich.
Cent. R. B. vs. Mich. South. B. B., (19 How., 379.) In this
case the bill refers to the act of 1795 but once, and there avers
in substance that it is valid. The answer avers that the defendants were owners before the date of the act, and continued to be in possession as owners afterwards. The decree
simply orders the bill to be dismissed.
Mr. Cushing, of Massachusetts. The act of 1805 purports
to transfer the seisin of the lauds in dispute to the corporation,
and thus impairs the obligation of the trust contract by which
the premises were devoted to the religious uses of the Scottish
Presbyterian Church. This wrong the State court refused to
redress, and this court is bound to reverse the decree for that
reason. Fletcher vs. Peck, (6 Craunch, 87;) New Jersey vs. Wison, (7 Cranch, 164;) Jackson vs. Lamphere, (3 Peters, 280;)
-ProvidenceBank vs. Billings, (4 Peters, 514;) Charles River
Bridge vs. Warren Bridge, (11 Peters, 490;) Gordon vs. Appeal
Tax Court, (3 Howard, 183;). Maryland vs. Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Co., (3 Howard, 576;) West River Bridge Co. vs. Dix,
(6 Howard, 507;) Bronson vs. Kenzie, (1 Howard, 111;) Planters' Bank vs. Sharp, (6 Howard, 301;) Plalen vs. Virginia, (8
Howard, 163 ;) Woodruff vs. Trapnall, (10 Howard, 190;)
Poup vs. Drew, (10 Howard, 218;) Baltimore & Susquehanna
Railroad Company vs. Nesbit, (10 Howard, 395;) Butler vs.
Pennsylvania, 10 Howard, 402;) East _Hartford vs. Hartford
Bridge Company, (10 Howard, 511;) -League vs. De Young,
(11 Howard, 105;) -Pennsylvaniavs. Wheeling & Belmont Bridge
Co., (13, Howard, 518 ;) State Bank of Ohio vs. Ynoop, (16 Howard, 369;) Ohio Life Insurance Co. vs. Debolt, (16 Howard,
416;) Christ Church vs. County of Philadelphia,(20 Howard, 28;)
Terrett vs. Taylor, (9 Cranch, 43;) Clark's -Executor vs. Van
Reinsdyk, (9 Cranch, 133;) Sturges vs. Commonwealth, (4 Wheaton, 122;) Farmers . lechanics' Bank vs. Smith, (6 Wheaton,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

265

.Attorney General vs. Federal Street Metling.house.

131;) Ogden vs. Saunders, (12 Wheaton, 213;) Mumma vs. Potomac Go., (8 Peters, 181;) Beers vs. Hauqhton, (9 Peters, 329;)
Gantley's Lessee vs. Ewing, (3 Howard, 707;) Cook vs. Moffat,
(5 Howard, 295;) Crawfordvs. Bank of Mobile, (7 Howard, 279;)
Curranvs. Arkansas, (15 Howard, 304.)
It is not necessary that it should be expressed on the record
that the validity of the act was in controversy; it is sufficient
that it appear by clear and necessary intendment that a question
which this court has jurisdiction- to re-examine was actually
decided by the State court. .Medberry vs. Ohio, (24 How.,
413;) Commercial Bank of Cincinnati vs. Buckingham's -Execu•tors, (5 How. 317, 341;) Smith vs. Hflunter, (7 How., 738;)
Neilson vs. Logan, (12 How., 98;) Williams vs. Oliver, (12 How.,
111;) Grand Gulf Railroadvs. Marshall,(12 How., 165;) Lawler vs. Walker, (16 How., 149;) 3laxwell vs. Newbold, (18 How.,
511;) Christ Church vs. Philadelphia,(20 How., 26.)
Mr. Justice GRIER. The writ of error in this case suggests, as a foundation for the jurisdiction of this court, "that
there was drawn in question the validity of a statute of said
Commonwealth, to wit, an act of the legislature, passed the
15th day of June, 1805, entitled 'An act declaring and confirming the incorporation of the- proprietors of the meetinghouse in Federal street,' in the town of Boston, being repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and the decision
of the court was in favor of the validity of said statute."
Is this suggestion of the writ supported by the record, either by direct averment, br by any necessary intendment?
We think it is not.
1. The decree of the court is, simply, that the bill be dismissed without any reasons alleged for such dismissal.
2. The bill itself raises no such issue; it refers to the act in
question, only as conferring the privilege of a corporation on
the defendant. It does not aver that the defendants pretend
to have title to the property in question by virtue thereof,.and
challenge its validity.
The answer alleges that respondents were incorporated by
the act of 1805, and that, "under it, they are the true and sole

SUPREME COURT.
Attorney General vs. Federal Street 3feeting-house.

owners of the premises, and that said act was passed on the
application and petition of parties who, prior thereto, were
owners of pews, or tenants in common of the land and the
house thereon." It is not alleged that the act "proprio vigore"
divested the plaintiff's title and vested it in the corporation,
but that the title was vested in the corporation at the request
of the owners.
The only questions, therefore, which could arise oii these
pleadings were, whether the persons who obtained the act of
incorporation were the owners, and whether, after an adverse
possession of forty years, a court of equity would interfere to
disturb the possession of respondents.
The answer takes issue on the charge of.the bill, that Little
and his associates had contributed land and money to support
a public charity; it averred that, on a proper construction of
the original deed of the premises, the meeting-house was not
dedicated to a charitable use, but was erected for their common use, and held by them in proportion to the sums severally contributed; and, consequently, if the representatives of
these tenants in common had their rights transferred to the
corporation, it was only a transfer of their rights by their consent, and for their own convenience-an enabling act, with
which the complainants had no concern. The issue, then, was
not on the validity of the act, but on the construction of the
original deed or agreement of the parties who built the meetinghouse. The validity of the act of assembly of Massachusetts
was not, therefore, drawn in question directly by any averment of the pleadings by the decree, or by any necessary intendment from other averments in the pleadings, or evidence
on the record.
The opinion of the State court to be found in 3 Gray, 1,
confirms this conclusion.
The case is, therefore, dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Wrt of e'or dismissed.

