SUP)REME COURT.
laflin vs. HerTington d al.

LAFLIN VS. HERRINGTON ET AL.

The sheriff sold land under an execution against the representatives of
the deceased owner, the heirs having a right to redeem in one year.
The agent of the purchaser, within the year, assigned the certificate
of sale to one of the heirs, who was acting for the rest, and who gave
his note for the amount, but did not pay it at maturity. The transaction, though it was not approved, was not disaffirmed by the purchaser
within the period allowed for redemption; Held,
That a person who bought the title of the original purchaser several years
afterwards, when the land had greatly risen in value, could not recover
it as against the heirs or their vendees.
Walter Laflin filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the northern district of Illinois, against the widow
and heirs of James Herrington and the Illinois Central Rail-road Company, complaining that one William Stuart obtained
judgment in the Circuit Court for Kane county, Illinois, 9th
•June, 1837, against James Herrington, for $646 72, and issued
execution thereon within one year thereafter, which was returned by the sheriff nulla bona; that afterwards James Herrington died, leaving a widow and ten children, (the defendants,) the widow becoming his administratrix; that James Herrington died seized of certain described lands; that afterwards
Stuart notified the administratrix of the judgment and of his
intention to issue an alias execution; that he did issue such
execution, levied upon the land, and after due advertisement
it was sold to William H. Adams for $1,378 42; that Adams
being a friend and relative of Stuart, made the purchase for
him; that Augustus M.llHerrington, one of the heirs of the
deceased James Herrington, proposed to redeem the land for
himself and the other heirs, but in order to overreach an outstanding title for a fractional interest, requested an assignment
of the certificate of sale to be made by Adams; that Adams
made an assignment with a blank for the name of the assignee,
and instructed his attorney, Burgess, to deliver it to Herrington when the money was paid; that Herrington (though he
knew that Adams had bought for Stuart) got the assignment

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

327

L.ajlin vs. Herrington et al.

from Farnsworth, the partner of Burgess; that he got the
paper by falsely representing that the land had been incorrectly described, and gave his notes for $2,378 42, payable to
Burgess & Farnsworth, agreeing, that if the arrangement
should not prove satisfactory to Stuart it should be void, and
the certificate, with the assignment, be returned to Farnsworth;
that Adams repudiated the arrangement as soon as he heard
of it, and wrote to Stuart, who immediately replied, expressing his disapproval in a letter which was read to rerrington
before the expiration of the time for redemption; that afterwards, on the 9th of October, 1856, Adams sold and transferred the certificate of sale to Julius Smith, who, on the. 20th
of November, 1856, conveyed to the complainant; and that the
heirs of Herrington in December, 1856, conveyed an undivided
interest to the Illinois Central Railroad Company. The bill
prays that the defendants be required to deliver up the certificate of sale so that the assignment may be cancelled; that they
be restrained by injunction from placing the certificate on record, from filling up the blank in the assignment, from making
any claim to the lands, or from demanding a deed of the sheriff;
that the sheriff be directed to make a deed to the complainant;
that the defendants be decreed to hav6 no title, and required, to
release all title which they may appear to have.
The facts, as they appeared from the answer and the evidence, are set forth in the opinion of Mr. Justice Wayne too
fully to need repetition here.
M71r. R-everdy Johnson, of Maryland, and Mr. Burgess, of Illinois, argued the cause for the appellants.
Mr. Beciavith, of Illinois, for appellees. 1. The judgment
against James Herrington not having been revived against
his heirs, the execution was a nullity and the sale void. 2. It
is not true that J. M. Herrington got the certificate fraudulently. 3. The appellant, by his own showing, is simply a
purchaser of the right to set aside a legal instrument, and has,
therefore, no standing in a court of equity. 4. Adams being
qlothed with the legal indicia of ownership, though he was, in

SUPREME COURT.
Laftin vs. Heringon.et al.

fact, only an agent of Stuart, had power to bind his principal.
5. Stuart ratified the act of Adams, and the subsequent attempt to repudiate it came too late. 6. On the part of the
complainant this is a mere speculation; all that is really due
to Stuart was tendered, and is now in court for his use. 7. The
complainant cannot have the contract with Hlerrington rescinded without placing the appellees in statu quo, which would
permit them to discharge the debt and redeem the land.
Mr. Justice WAYNE. We shall confine ourselves to such
of the facts of this case as are sufficient to illustrate the point
upon which we will decide it. Others have been insisted upon
in the argument, but, in our opinion, they have no substantial
bearing upon the merits of the controversy.
The complainant and the respondents have chosen to put
their respective rights to the land in dispute upon the sale of
it, to satisfy the judgment of Stuart against J. Herrington,
each claiming the sheriff's certificate of sale by fair purchases,
the former, however, charging that the purchase of the latter
had been obtained by the fraud and circumvention of Augustus M. Herrington, their co-defendant, without accusing any
of 'the rest of them with complicity in the transaction.
It is recited in the bill that a judgment had been recovered
by William Stuart, in the year 1837, against James Herrington, for six hundred and forty-six dollars and seventy-two
cents. That an execution issued upofi it, within the year of
its rendition, commanding the sheriff to make the money out
of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the debtor,
and that the sheriff had returned it to the proper office, with
the entry upon it, "that he could find no property.of the defendant whereon to levy." This occurred in the lifetime of
James Herrington. He died in the year 1839 intestate, leaving a widow and ten children.
The probate court of Kane county granted to his widow
letters of administration upon the husband's estate. It is
against her, as administratrix, and nine of these children, one
of them being dead, and the Illinois Central Railroad Company, that this suit is brought. The"answer of that company

DECEMIBER TERM, 1861.

329

Laflin v.. Herringtonet aL

makes it unnecessary to notice it further in this opinion, except in confirmation of the fact that, at the time it bought its
interest in the land in controversy, and when the complainant
bargained for his, it had become a subject of speculation.
Nothing was done for several years after the sheriff's return
upon the execution, and the death of the debtor, to collect the
debt.
But when it bad been judicially determined that the debtor
had died seized of theland in controversy, Mr. Stuart, the judgment-creditor, empowered his friend and brother-in-law, William H. Adams, to take such means as were necessary to subject the land to the payment of his judgment. Adams accepted the agency, and employed Messrs. Farnsworth and
Burgess, attorneys at law, in the case. They conducted it with
the knowledge of Adams of every thing which was done, and
with the acquiescence of his principal, Stuart. The counsel
served a notice upon the widow and administratrix of J. Herrington, informing her of the unsatisfied existence of the judgment, and that they would apply in three months, at the clerk's
office, for an alias execution. They did so, and the execution
was issued and levied upon the land. It was sold by the sheriff, in four parcels, for the aggregate sum of $1,378 42, subject
to a right of redemption in one year, by the payment of the
sums due, with accruing interest and the costs. Mr. Burgess
attended the sale at the request of Mr. Adams, and bid on the
land to the amount of the execution and costs, in his nanme,
for the benefit of his principal, Mr. Stuart.
Mr. Burgess, as counsel, directed the sheriff to make the
certificate of sale to Mr. Adams, and that having been done,
he received and retained it. The purchase and retention of
the certificate of sale by Mr. Burgess was approved by Mr.
Stuart, it being understood it was to remain in the bands of
himself, and his partner, Mr. Farnsworth, subject to the right
of redemption, or to an assignment of it to a purchaser, as
Mr. Adams might direct.
Shortly before the expiration of the time allowed by the law
to 'redeem, Mr. Burgess told Mr. Adams that Augustus M. Herrington, one of the children of the judgment-debtor, and now

880

i

SUPREME COURT.
Laflin vs. Herrington et al.

a respondent to this bill, wished to redeem the land by paying
the amount due upon the certificate of sale, and wanted an
assignment of it to himself Mr. Adams directed Mr. Burgess
to write the assignment. Ie did so, leaving a blank for the
name of the assignee, and a figure wanting for the date of the
year, which Mr. Adams signed, giving a direction to Mr. Burgess, the latter assuring him it should be observed, that the
certificate, with the assignment upon it, should not be given
up until the money had been paid.
Either late in January or early in February, 1856, Augustus
M. Herrington went to the office of Farnsworth and Burgess, the
latter not being in, and he stated to Mr. Farnsworth his desire
to get further time than the last day of redemption for the payment of the money due upon the certificate of sale. To this
application Mr. Farnsworth says: "Knowing that there had
been some conversation to transfer the certificate to A. M.
Herrington, and that there was an assignment in the office for
that purpose, the transfer of the certificate was made to him
upon his giving his note of hand and a due bill in payment, the
note being ante-dated as of March the sixth, 1855, with interest
at. ten per cent., to be paid on the 1st September, 1856, to
Farnsworth and Burgess; the due bill being for one hundred
dollars 'and a trifle over,' which was paid in a short time afterward, the amount of it being the fee due to Farnsworth and
* Burgess by Mr. Stuart, for their services in the case." Mr.
Farnsworth filled up the blank in the assignment with the
name of Hlerrington, added the figure 5 to give that year as the
date of the note, and concluded it, contrary to the flict, with the
words, "for money actually loaned."
M1. Farnsworth declares, in his evidence, that the transfer
was made and the note taken in good faith, for the benefit
of Mr. Stuart, and for no other purpose ;han to give to H1errington. the ownership of the certificate.
Some days after it had been done, Herrington went to the
office occupied by Adams and by Farnwortl and Burgess for
the transaction of their respective businesses-that of Adams
being to buy and sell land-when, the transfer of the certificate to Herrington became the subject of conversation, both

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

331

Laflin vs. Herrington et al.

of' the counsel and Adams being present. Adams then said
to them and to Herrington that he was satisfied with the
arrangement, but that he being only an agent, he would write
to his principal about it, and if he did not object to it, that he
would not. He did'write, and received a reply from Mr. Stuart,
complaining of what had been done, which was shown to Mr.
Herrington on the 5th of March, the day before the expiration
of one year from the date of the sale of the land.
But whatever may have been his discontent with the arrangement, that letter and other testimony in the record show that
Mr. Stuart did not then intend to disaffirm it, but was content
to take the chances of the payment of Herrington's note; at
the same time holding his counsel responsible for the debt, if
the note should not be paid at its maturity. He also required
from them the deduction of their commissions on the amount
"collected or to be collected." No complaint was made again
of Farnsworth's arrangement by the parties interested in-it,
until after Herrington's default in- payment of the note.
Six months had intervened, when Herrington received a
letteir, with the signature of Farnsworth and Burgess, urging
him to pay the note on account of a letter which they had received from their client, Mr. Stuart. The. letter was sent to
Herrington, with a request for its return. Burgess and Farnsworth are charged, in that letter, with having given the certificate to Herrington without the knowledge and against the
consent of Adams, and in violation of the assurance given by
Mr. Burgess, that it should not b5 parted with by him until
the money had been paid. The writer then says, that he had
written to Mr. Adams t6 employ at once some able and honest
lawyer-if he shall have the lu~k to find one-to take immediate measures to settle the matter. Aild he concludes by telling his lawyers that his confidence, and that of Adams, had
been abused, and that if he should be compelled to go to
Chicago again on the business, he would expose the whole
affair. Then it appears, that up to the date of that ietter-six
months after that of the previous letter-there had been no
actual disaffirmance of Farnsworth's arrangement with Herrington for the certificate of sale; and that all the parties

SUPREME COURT.
Laflin vs. .erringon et at.

knew it had been transferred by that arrangement, in virtue
of Herrington's right to redeem the land, for the benefit of
himself and his mother, and his brothers and sisters. Stuart,
Adams, and their counsel continued to anticipate the payment of the note, and the latter were allowed to retain it for
payment, without the dissent of Adams or his principal. But,
after it was past due for more than a month, the counsel
wrote to Herrington a singular letter, without taking notice of
any of the other respondents to this bill. They say they "were
under the necessity, owing to Mr. Stuart's refusal to ratify
the arrangement made by our Mr. F. with you. about the certificate of sale of what is called the Laflin property, to refund the
money you paid to Mr. F., about the 28th of January last, of
$108 34, with interest, amounting to $116 48." Still, Burgess,
acting as counsel of Stuart, in writing the letter just read,
which was done with the full knowledge of Adams, made no
offer to surrender Herrington's note.
The case subsequently shows, that the note was retained by
Mr. Burgess, for the security, of himself and partner against
any claim which might thereafter be made by Mr. Stuart upon
them for the money due him, in the event of his successfully
carrying into execution his menace to make them responsible
for the debt, and with the further intention to use the note to
coerce the payment of it out of the land. By this time, however, the land was supposed to have become a good object of
speculation. Mr. Burgess and Mr. Adams knew it to be so;
for, before the letter had been written to terrington, announcing to him, for the first time, that Mr. Stuart would not ratify
their arrangement for the transfer of the certificate to A. M.
Hlerrington, Mr. Burgess had already become the lawyer of
the complainant, Mr. Laffin, for the purchase of the land, with
the intention to divest the respondents of all right to the certificate of sale. We think that a moment's professional consideration, unafficted by any resentment of Mr. Burgess against
Herrington for the non-payment of his note, would have suggested to him that having himself fully assented to what he
represented as his partner's arrangement for the transfer of the
certificate, that, so far as he was concerned, it had given to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

333

Laflin vs. Heinglon et al.

Herrinitons an equity to the land, which it might not be professionally becoming in him to attempt to defeat, by his agency
for the purchase of it for another person. He must have
known that, under the circumstances, equity would coerce the
respondents to pay the amount due upon the certificate, as the
condition upon which they could ever get the sheriff's title to
the lapd. Moreover, he knew that there were then persons
offering to buy the land, at a larger sum than the certificate
called for, amply securing his principal, Mr. Stuart, and himself and his partner, from all loss. And, further, he might
have concluded that any one purchasing, either from Mr. Stuart
or Mr. Adams, with a full knowledge of all the circumstances
of the transaction before he bought, could not acquire any
right in himself, by the purchase, to defeat the previous equity
which had been obtained by the representatives of the judgment-debtor, in the exercise of their legal right to redeem the
land from the operation of the certificate of sale. The evidence also shows that the complainant, Mr. Laflin, knew all
the particulars of the judgment; the subsequent proceedings
upon it; the sale of the property to satisfy it; how the certificate of sale had been given by the sheriff, and to whom, and
for what purpose; the subsequent assignment of it to A. M.
Herrington, in behalf of himself and his father's family; the
agency of his counsel, Mr. Burgess, in the whole affair; and
the course of Mr. Stuart and Mr. Adams, in respect to it, when
the former conveyed to the complainant his interest in the
land.
In our opinion, there never was, either by Mr. Stuart or Mr.
Adams, or by their counsel, any effective disaffirmance of the
assignment of the certificate to Mr. Herrington ; and if either
of them meant to do so, we think that no act of theirs, either
separately or conjointly, could, under all the circumstances,
have defeated, in favor of Mr. Laflin, the previous equity to
the land, which had been acquired by the respondents. Laflin
stands in no better condition than Mr. Stuart did, when his
equity in the certificate had been conveyed to others by those
who represented him, for a consideration which they chose to
retain, with his knowledge, if not strictly with his consent, in

SUPREME COURT.
Laflin vs. Herringtonet al.

expectation of its payment, until after the time when the right
of the assignees of it to redeem the land had passed. The latter, by that course, might well have supposed, and as they did
think, that they had an equity in the certificate, not liable to
be annulled at the pleasure of those from whom they had acquired it, upon the plea that there had been a failure to pay
the money on the day stipulated, and that its non-payment at
that time, of itself revested Mr. Stuart ivith the original, but
contingent equities to the land, which the purchase of it, at
sberiff's sale, had given to the judgment-creditor. The nonredemption of the land would have made Mr. Stuart's right
absolute, upon the expiration of the time allowed; but having
made the certificate of sale the subject of speculation and sale
before that day, with a postponement for the payment of the
consideration of the transfer for a longer time, neither Mr.
Stuart nor Mr. Adams, as his agent, can, with any propriety,
be considered as having had a right to retain, at the same time,
both MUr. Stuart's claims upon the land, if the money should
not be punctually paid, and also their transferee's obligation
to pay it when due. Indeed, we doubt, without intending
ourselves to be finally concluded upon the point, as it has not
been so decided by the courts.of Illinois, if, under the law of
Illinois giving to a debtor the right to redeem his land sold under execution, if even an agreement had been made between
these parties, which did make the right to redeem conditional
upon the payment of a consideration in money, after the time to
redeem had passed, and that, if not then paid, that the creditor
should have the right to exclude the debtor from doing so,
whether a court of equity, if called upon to adjust the rights of
the parties under such a contract, would not, in consideration of
the intentions of the legislature in giving to debtors the right to
redeem, feel itself bound to dispose of the case, by making the
debtor pay the amount due, with interest, and all costs which
might have accrued in the litigation.
But how, in addition t(.what has been said of the disability
of Mr. Stuart to convey, at the time it was done, any right to
the land to .the complainant, and the latter's inability to obtain
any such right, in consequence of his knowledge of the cir.
I

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Laflin vs. Heninglon et al.

cumstances, when he took Stuart's conveyance, thei 3 were incidents in this affair, happening subsequ3ntly to the assignment of the certificate to Herrington, produced by the course
taken by the complainant and his counsel, Mr. Burgess, and
by Mr. Adams and Mr. Smith, who now appears for the first
time in this business, which are certainly not' calculated to
strengthen the complainant's claim to the certificate of sale
against the better equity of the respondents.
The course taken -bythe complainant to get the ownership
of the land was to buy it from Mr. Stuart, expecting, if he
succeeded in doing so, that Mr. Adams, having no interest or
claim upon it, would, as Stuart's agent, transfer to him the
certificate of sale which the sheriff made in his name, only, as
he says in his testimony, for the benefit of Stuart. The case,

however, shows that Mr. Adams would not or did not do so,
and that he assumed, in eight days afterwards, and when he
knew that his principal had conveyed to Laflin, to be the
owner of the certificate, and conveyed the same land to Julius
0. Smith, authorizing him to receive a deed for it, in his own
name and to his own use, from the sheriff, in virtue of the certificate of sale, and then remitted himself to Mr. Stuart sixteen hundred dollars, the consideration which Laflin was to
have paid Mr. Stuart, but which had not been done, though
said in the deed that it had been.
NIow, there are certain facts in connection with Stuart's deed
to Laflin and Adams's to Smith which must be mentioned, and
particularly so, as they are mostly derived from the testimony
of Mr. Adams:
1. Mr. Burgess acted as the agent of 'Walter Lafiin, the
complainant, in the negotiation between Smith and Laflin, for
the purchase of the property, and for the procurement of the
deed from Stuart to Laflin. "Do not recollect who informed
him so, but thinks it was Mr. Burgess."
2. The deed from Mr. Adams to Smith was executed, the
latter being acquainted with the dispute that had arisen concerning the property and with the circumstances attending
the transfer of the certificate to the Herringtons.
8. Smith knew when Adams made his deed, and when he

SUP1EME OOURT.
Laflin vs. Herringtonet al.

accepted it, that Adams was only the agent of Stuart; that he
had nothing in the land to convey; that the certificate of sale,
which he was then professing to sell him, had been issued to
him only as the agent and for the benefit of Stuart; that it
had been already assigned, with his signature, to A. M. Herrington, and when the deed was made to Smith, on the 9th of
October, that both himself and Adams were then aware of the
fact of Stuart having sold his interest in the land to Laflin on
the 1st of the same month. The title to the land, thcn, as between Stuart, Laflin, Adams, and Smith, stood thus: that the
second had the first title to it, and the lhtter, that of Air.
Adams, the agent of Stuart, who had not at the time any
property in the land, or any delegated authority from Stuart
to convey it to Smith. We know not what were the inducements of Mr. Adams to make a transfer, under such circumstances, to Smith; but when be gave his testimony in this
case, it would have been better for all parties concerned if he
had given a full explanation of the transaction. It was, however, not done. But Smith accepted the conveyance, and
brought a suit against Augustus M. Herrington and others for
the property; and he states in his bill, that William U. Adams,
for a valuable consideration paid, and agreed to be paid, had assigned the certificate to him. His suit was filed two days after the date of the conveyance to him. Thus matters stood
until the 20th November of the same year, just one month,
when he conveys the property to Walter Laflin, the complainant, for the sum of thirty thousand dollars, for which he had
agreed to give sixteen hundred, the exact sum which Adams
remitted to Stuart when he conveyed to Smith. Our object
in giving the narrative of the transfers of this land has not
been to ascertain whether all of the persons who have been
mentioned were in combination to divest the Herringtons of
their equity in it, but to show the fact that there was such a
combination for speculation, which a court of equity will not
countenance. The conveyances to Laflin and Smith were
made by Mr. Stuart and Mr. Adams before the letter of the
23d of October, 1856, was written to A. M. Herrington by
Farnsworth and Burgess, letting him'know that Mr. Stuart

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

88T

Laflin vs. Herringtonet al.

bad refused to ratify their arrangement for the transfer to him
of the certificate of sale. Mr. Smith's suit was also brought
4before that letter was written. Mr. Burgess had negotiated
the sale from Stuart to Laflin on the first of October, and in
that letter, of the 23d of the month, calls the land, for the first
time, the Laflin property.
Mr. Burgess also knew that Adams's transfer to Smith was
executed on the 9th, and, as early as the 11th, he became the
counsel of Smith in the suit against the Herringtons, notwithstanding he had before bought the property for Laflin, then
being at the same fime the counsel of Laflin and Smith, in respect to land for which they had to all appearance antagonist
claims, which was acquired through his agency, his situation
as to each of those persons being known to Adams when the
incidents occurred which have been just mentioned, and, c
course, before the letter of the 23d of October was written I )
Herrington. Further, wo find in the record proof of his re] resentation of Laflin and Smith, and with their consent it
the same time, in the fact that after Smith's suit had been a [lowed to stand for six weeks, that Smith consented to give a
quit-claim deed for the land to Laflin, for which the latter wcs
to pay thirty thousand dollars, and that the litigation betweeu
Smith and Herrington was immediately transferred to Laflin,
under the professional direction of Mr. Burgess.
All tile foregoing facts, in connection with the evidence that
this land had then become very valuable, convince us that
there was a combination to deprive the Herringtons of their
equity in it, by using the fact of the note of A. M. Herrington
not being paid at its maturity as a pretence for doing so. Mr.
Allen, engaged in the real estate business, says that he knew
the land; that he knew it as the property contested between
Matthew Laflin and Herrington's heirs, and thirteen acres of
it, running from State street to the lake, comprising what Was
known as the Herrington tract; that it had seven fronts-one
Dn State street, two on Wabash avenue, two on Michigan avenue, and two on Indiana; he thinks that in each front there
was about six hundred feet, and that its value in March, 1856,
3
was one hundred and twenty-five dollars per front foot.
VOL. I.

22

SUPREME COURT.
Laflin vs.

emrington et al.

That may have been an exaggerated estimation; but whether
so or not, it serves to show, especially as it was not controverted as to the amount, that all the persons concerned in de-.
feating the equity of the Jlerringtons-and they were also
dealers in land-were in combination to effect that object for a
speculation, and that Mr. Burgess gave to them his professional
services to accomplish it. Now, it is not meant by us, that thle
buying of land with the expectation of selling'it at an advance
in price is wrong of itself, any more than that the purchase
of merchandise is so, when made by the anticipation of its rise
by the happening of political events, or by foresight of what
will be the demand for consumption at a future day, and a
deficiency of supply; but the difference between them is, that
the latter is a triumph of sagacity, which gives life and energy
to all trade; but that to buy land for speculation, upon a combination to divest the right of another to it, is a contrivance to
fulfil the designs of selfishness.
We have given the facts of this case plainly, in connection
with the assignment of the certificate of sale to Herrington, and
the subsequent attempts which were made to divest his interest and that of his family in it, and necessarily with the names
of all the persons concerned in them. That of Mr. Burgess
occurs frequently under circumstances that call for a further
remark. We do not mean it to be inferred, from anything
that has been said, that, in the combination to make the speculation out of the property, he had any prospective pecuniary
expectation or interest in its results. There is no evidence of
that in the record, and there is that he advocated zealously
the causes of his new clients-perhaps from temperament of
character, perhaps from resentment to the Herringtons for the
non-payment of the note at its maturity, which A. M. Herrington had given to. Farnsworth and himself for the certificate of sale; but, be that as it may, we think, considering
what had been the relations between himself and partner with
A. A. Herrington in this matter, in appearing in court against
him and his family for others in the same business, that he
was not sufficiently mindful of the restraints imposed by prudence upon lawyers in making engagements with their clients,

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.

889

United States vs. Covillandet al.

which- cannot be disregarded without subjecting them to misconception and suspicion, and the profession to the already
too prevalent impression that it is not practiced with all the
forbearances of the strictest honesty or of the highest moral
principle.
With these views, we shall direct the judgment of the court
below.to be affirmed.
We ought t3 have said, also, that there was no error in re.
ceiving the letter of Mr. Stuart to Farnsworth and Burgess as
evidence, complaining of their want of fidelity as his lawyers.
It was not confidential, or meant to be so, in the sense of its
having any connection with the merits of the case, for Mr.
IStuart
had authorized it to be communicated to another
lawyer, for the purpose of obtaining from Farnsworth and Burgess an immediate settlement of the- debt.

UIZITED STATES VS. COVILLAND ET AL.

1. A confirmation of a Mexican land title in a proceeding conducted
2.

8.

4.

5.

in the name of the original grantee is binding upon the United
States, and upon all the assignees of the original grantee.
When a survey is executed conformably to the decree of confirmation,
the alienees of the original grantee may intervene to protect their
own rights.
When the survey is completed, and a patent issued to the original
grantee, his assignees can assert their rights 'against him in the
ordinary courts of the country.
But the extraordinary tribunals, proceeding under the act of 1851,
cannot order a second patent to issue for a part of the land previously confirmed to the original grantee.
If such a decree were made, it would not bind the Government, and
would be a nullity as between the original grantee and his assiguees.
Charles Covilland, Jose Manuel Ramirez, William It. Samp-

son, administrator of John Sampson, Charles B. Sampson, Robert B. Buchanan, and Gabriel T. Suezy, presented their Petition to the Board of Land Commissioners, at San Francisco, on

