SUPREME COURT.
Harkness& Wife vs. Underhfil.

HARKNESS & WIFE VS. UNDERHILL.

1. A fraudulent entry of public land allowed by a register and receiver,
upon false proofs of settlement, occupancy and housekeeping, may
be set aside and vacated by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office.
2. A contract between two persons, neither of them being settlers or
housekeepers, that one of them shall enter land for the benefit of
both under the pre-emption laws, is a combination to defraud the
Government, contrary to public policy, illegal, and void.
8 Such a contract will not operate by way of estoppel to prevent one of
the parties, his heirs or alienees, from setting up a good legal title
subsequently acquired, against the fraudulent title obtained by the
other in accordance with the contract.
4. Where a party has had possession of land for fourteen years under a
legal title clear and free upon its face, and the land in the mean
time has greatly risen in value, a court of equity cannot make a do.
cree which will turn the owner of the legal title out.
James P. Harkness and Maria his wife brought their bill
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the northern
district of Illinois, against Isaac linderhill, to compel the de.
fendant to convey to Maria Hlarkness the west half of the east
half of the southeast quarter of section 4 in township 8, range
8, east of the 4th principal meridian, in Peoria county, Illinois. The material facts set forth in the bill are *these:
Isaac Waters, the father of Maria farkness, was asettler and
housekeeper on the half-quarter section of land described.
As such he was in possession of the whole eighty acres from
April 5th, 1832, until July 13th, 1833; and from the latter date
until July 2d, 1835, he was in possession of forty acres, the
west half, cultivating it and making improvements, which began in April, 1832. On the 24th of November, 1832, he made
his affidavit, which was corroborated by that of John G. Trail,
that he was a settler and housekeeper on the half-quarter
section; which affidavits of himself and Trail he afterwards
presented at the land office-and applied for the purchase and
entry of the land, but failed because the public surveys of that

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Harkness & Wife vs. Underhill.

township had not then been returned. Subsequently to this
the surveys were returned, but Waters died without renewing
his application. H e left a widow and several children. On
the 7th of August, 1835, which was after the death of Waters
and within one year after the return of the surveys, his widow,
on behalf of herself and children, applied for a pre-emption
right upon the proofs which Waters had made in his lifetime.
The register and receiver allowed the claim, and the land was
thereupon entered by the widow for herself and the heirs-atlaw of Waters. The receipt was recorded in the office of the
recorder for Peoria country.
The narrative now goes back to certain transactions of Waters with other parties. On the 13th of July, 1833, he made
his writing obligatory to Stephen Stillman and William A.
Stewart, reciting that Waters and Stillman were common
owners of the eighty acres; that Stewart had bought half of
Stillman's share ; that Stewart should pay $50, one half of the
whole purchase money, and Waters should make to Stewart
and Stillman a good title for forty acres, the east half of the
eighty acres. Stewart conveyed his interest to Francis Church.
As to the west half, Waters bound himself on the 2d of July,
1835, to convey that to Moses Pettingal and William Wolcott.
They assigned their interest to Aaron Russell, who went into
possession and made improvements worth $3,000. Russell
died in possession in the fall of 1838, leaving no children, but a
widow, who retained the possession to the time of her own
death in the fall of 1839, when Gale and Cross, administrators
of Russell, took possession and kept it until they were turned
out by force, as will be mentioned hereafter.
In 1836, Stillman, taking advantage of the possession which
he had acquired, with Waters's consent, of the east half of the
eighty acres, claimed a pre-emption right in the whole of it.
He had previously sold a portion of it to Aquilla Wren. The
land office refused to allow him a pre-emption or to permit
-'him to enter the land, because a pre-emption for the same land
had been already allowed to the heirs of Waters. Stillman
died in 1837. The year afterwards, Wren; together with one
Frisby, sent an agent to the land office, who got a pre-emption

SUPREME COURT.
Harkness & Wife vs. Underill.

right allowed, and an entry made in the name of himself as
agent for Stiliman's heirs. But this was done without the
authority or knowledge of Stillman's heirs, and the purchase
money and fees were paid by Frisby and Wren. They also
got a patent from the General Land Office at Washington, and
turned Russell's administrators (Gale and Cross) out of possession of the west half by force. In 1841, Wren conveyed
the west half of the lot to Isaac Underhill.
After the administrators of Russell had been forcibly detruded from their possession, they brought an action against
Waters's representatives on the bond which Waters had given
to Pettingal and Wolcott for the title of the west half of the lot,
and recovered $3,000. On this judgment execution was issued;
the land now in controversy was levied on inter alia, and sold
to Charles Balance for $5. Balance conveyed to Maria Harkness, a daughter of Waters, and one of the present plaintiffs.
The other heirs of Waters also released their respective rights
to her.
The bill concludes by praying that Isaac Underhill, the defendant, be decreed to convey the west half of the eighty acres
to Maria Harkness, and account to her for the profits he has
r aceived.
The defendant's veision of the facts as extracted from his
answer, and simply stated, is this:
Waters was not a settler and housekeeper on the land. His
affidavit to that effect was false, and so was Trail's. He went
on the land September 23, 1832, put up a log-pen, without a
roof, staid there one night only, and the next day made his
affidavit. That was the only possession he ever had, and the
certificate of pre-emption obtained upon it was fraudulent and
void. Defendant knew nothing of the written contract between Waters of the one part, and Stillman and Stewart of the
other part, until long after he purchased from Wren, and he
denies that the facts recited in that writing are true, or that
Stillman got possession of the east half of the lot under that
writing; he was in possession before. It is true that Russell
made improvements on the west half, but they were made with
a full knowledge that Water s's pre-emption right was con-

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.

319

Harkness & Wife vs. Underhill.

tested, and its validity denied. When defendant made his
purchase from Wren, the bond froni Waters to Stillman and
Stewart, as well as the receiver's certificate and receipt, were
recorded in the recorder's office of Peoria county, but he did
not know it; he had no actual knowledge of either transaction,
and he insists that he is an innocent and bona fide purchaser
for a valuable consideration, without notice of any adverse
claiin whatever. He has made valuable improvements, which
the plaintiffs stood by and saw him make for years, without
asserting any right of their own; and this, together with the
lapse of time, should protect him. He admits that the land
was sold by the sheriff at the suit of Russell's dministrators,
ona judgment against the personal representatives of Waters;
but the sheriff's vendee acquired no title, because the title was
then not in the heirs of Waters, but in Wren.
The evidence taken in the cause was convincing enough that
Waters was not an actual settler and housekeeper on any part
of the eighty acres when be made his application for the right
of pre-emption. He was at that time a resident of Peoria,
and continued to reside there afterwards. This was the only
fact controverted between the parties. The Commissioner of
the General Land Office ordered the entry of Waters's heirs to
be vacated on the ground of fraud. The principal questions,
therefore, which arose on the bill, answer, and evidence, were:
1. Whether Waters's right of pre-emption could be set aside
and the entry of his heirs vacated on the ground that his proofs
were insufficient or false.
2. Whether Stillman, and those claiming under him, were
estopped by his contract with Waters to take advantage of the
unsoundness of Waters's title.
3. Whether Underhill, the defendant, took the legal title
which he purchased from Wren discharged of the equities
against it in the hands of Stillman; and
4. Whether the lapse of time and the accompanying circumstances were, or were not, a protection to Underhill against
the claim of the plaintiffs.
The Circuit Court decided all the points of fact and law

SUPREME COURT.
Harkness & Wife vs. Underdill.

against the plaintiffs and dismissed the bill. Thereupon, they
took this appeal.
lr. Williams for complainants. It makes no difference
whether Waters's house and actual residence was on the land
in question or on the adjoining tract. The substantial requirement of the law was, the improvement, and that was on the
land. The United States were not wronged, for they got as
much money, and as good, from Waters as they would have
got from Stillman. Nor was Waters's entry a fraud upon
Stillman. It was made, with his consent and for his benefit.
At all events; Waters's entry was good under the act of June
19, 1834, which provides that all persons who were in posses.
sion of and cultivated lands in 1833 shall be entitled to preemption. Besides, the irregularity was cured by the act of July
2, 1836.
The register and receiver having sold the land to Waters in
conformity with the instructions of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, had no further power or jurisdiction over
it. Neither had the Commissioner of the General Land Office
power to set aside the sale even for fraud. This could only
be done by judicial authority. Opinions of Attorneys General,
Public Land Laws, Instructions and Opinions, part 2, No. 15,
p. 16; No. 57, p. 85; No. 58, p. 85; No. 64, p. 99; No. 88, p.
140; Elliott vs. Piersoll, (1 Pet., 340;) Wilcox vs. Jackson, (13
Pet., 511; 13 Curtis, 269;) Lytle vs. The State of Arkansas, (9
low., 333; 18 Curtis, 159;) United States vs. Arredondo, (6 Pet.,
709, 729;) La Roche vs. Jones, (9 How., 17; 14 Pet., 458.) The
entry of Waters was vacated on an ex parte application without notice. A judicial decree made under such circumstances,
and in such a manner, would be a nullity. So, for a stonger
reason, is the decision of a mere executive or ministerial officer.
Stillman is estopped by the contract between himself and
Waters from setting up a title acquired as his was in opposition to the title of Waters. 12 How., 24; H7allet vs. Collins,
(10 How., 174, 183;) Hunt vs. Sloan, (2 Michigan, 213;) Pey

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

321

Harkness & Wife vs. Underhkil.

ton vs. Stith, (5 Pet., 485;) Tilghman vs. Lytle, (13 Ills. R., 239;)
WenTock vs. Hardy, (4 Little, 272-4;) Biey vs. lillian, (4 J.
J. Marsh, 305.)
Wren and Underhill having purchased with a full knowledge of Waters's claim, and of the facts upon which it was
founded, are in no better condition than Stillman himself.
Waters's certificate of entry and his bond to Stillman and
Stewart were recorded. That record was notice to all the
world. It is made so by the recording law of Illinois. 1
Purp. St., 159, sec. 28. Besides, the open, actual, notorious
possession which Waters and those deriving title from him
had of the .west h'alf of the eighty acres, was notice to all persons of the title under-which they claimed it. Bupert vs. Mark,
(15 Ills., 542;) Tattle vs. Jackson, (6 Wend., 213;) Colby vs.
Kenniston, (4 N. H., 262;) .lathews vs. Demerite, (22 Maine,
312;) Landes vs. Brant, (10 How., 348;) -Dyer vs. Martin, (4
Scam., 146;) -Dixon vs. -Doe, (1 S. & M., 70;) Boling vs. Ewing,
(9 Dana, 76;) McConnel vs. .ead, (4 Scam., 123;) 1 Story's
Eq. Jurisp., sec. 400; 2 Vesey, 437; 13 Vesey, 118; Buck vs.
.Halloways-Devisees, (2 J'. J. Marsh, 180;) Grimston vs. Carter,
(3 Paige, 421-437;) Governeur vs. Lynch, (2 Paige, 800;)
Chesterman vs. Gardner, (5 Johns, Oh. 29.)
And this rule extends to the possession of a pre-emption in
Illinois. Bruner et al. vs. Manlove et al., (3 Scam., 339.)
Mr. Carlisle and Mr. Webb for defendant. No one but a
settler and housekeeper on the land was entitled to a right of
pre-emption under the act of April 5, 1832. Waters was .not
a settler or housekeepei. He had, therefore, no right-no
title-nothing but a fraudulent claim, wholly worthless and
void. That being its character, the register and receiver and
Commissioner of the General Land Office had authority to
rescind, set aside, and treat as a nullity the entry made by his
heirs on the false proofs produced by him in his lifetime. As
Waters's 'entry did not give him the title, it was still in the
United States, and the land office was justified in permitting
Stillman's heirs to enter it. 2 Land Laws, 646; Lewis vs.
Liwis, (9 Mo., 143.) "It is the duty of the Commissioner of
VOL. i.

21

SUPREME COURT.
Harkness & Wife vs. Underhl.

the General Land Office to revise the proceedings of the reoister and receiver and vacate entries which may have been illegally made, and thereby arrest the completion of a title originating in fraud, mistake, or violation of law." This is the
language of the court in Green vs. Hill, (9 Missouri, 322.) To
the same effect are the cases of Perry vs. O'Hanlon, (11 Mo.,
585;) Huntsucker vs. Clark, (12 Mo., 333;) Nelson vs. Skinms,
(23 Miss., 383;) Glenn vs. Thistle, (23 Miss., 42;) Mitchell vs.
Cobb, (13 Ala., 137;) Dickinson vs. Brown, (9 Smeade and
Marshall, 130;) Gray vs. McCance, (4 Ill.) Between the case
at bar and the case last cited there is no essential difference.
The Commissioner of the Land Office held Gray's entry to be a
nullity, a fraud on the Government, and directed it to be set
aside, and his action was held to be not only legal but conclusive upon the parties. If Waters had any claim under the act
of April 5, 1832, or March 2, 1833, he waived it by his neglect
to comply with the rules and regulations of the General Land
Office, and no subsequent act that he could take advantage of
would cure the irregularity.
The bond which Waters gave to Stillman was neither morally nor legally binding. Waters was to convey to Stillman
if he obtained a pre-emption, and this he neither did nor
could do. His heirs after his death entered the land in fraud
of the law, but they never offered to execute the contract by
conveying to Stillman. The bond was contrary to the policy
of the law.
The plaintiffs rely on the record as proving notice to Underhill. Perhaps these records may be notice that he had a claim,
but in 1841, when Underhill made his purchase from Wren, the
entry by Waters's heirs had been set aside for three years, and
for the same period no person had been in possession claiming
under Waters or his heirs. The patent had been issued to
Stillman's heirs, and no intention had been manifested to assert
an adverse claim. Then eighteen years elapsed after the title
to Stillman, and fourteen after Underhill's purchase, before
this bill was filed. Meantime the land had increased in value
one hundred fold-had been laid out into town lots, improved
and built upon by innocent purchasers, and had become a ma-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

323

Harkness & .Wife vs. Underhill.

terial portion of a thriving and important western city. The
purchase by Underhill was made in good faith, and the entire
legal and equitable title is vested in him. Ie need not go behind his patent for a title. It is conclusive evidence of right
and title in the patentee until attacked and overthrown by some
one who can show a superior equity. The defendant is also
fully and wholly protected by the statute of limitations. 2'
Purple's Stat., 730; Purple's Real Estate St., 424.
Mr. Justice CATRON. In the winter or spring of 1882,
Isaac Waters and Stephen Stillman agreed to cultivate and improve the east half of the southeast quarter of section four, a
portion of which is in controversy in this suit., This arrangement was made in view of the probability that Congress would,
at its then session, pass a pre-emption law. It was further
stipulated that Waters should make the necessary proof to
obtain the pre-emption. As was anticipated, the act of April
5, 1832, was passed, allowing "to actual settlers, being housekeepers," a pre-emption to enter a half-quarter section to include his improvement. Waters went on the land, made a
slight improvement for the purpose of cultivation, erected a
temporary hut, or rather a pen, put some furniture in it, and
he, with a part of his family, went into the hut, staid there a
couple of days, and then returned to his residence in the village
of Peoria, where he resided, and continued to reside. .He was
a substantial resident of the village, having a house, home, and
family there. The half-quarter section adjoined the village
property. Waters made an affidavit in September, 1832, that
he was an actual settler and housekeeper on the land. He
does not say at what time, but he applied to enter under the
provisions of the act of April 5, 1832. He also procured the
affidavit of one Trail, who swore that Waters was an actual
settler and housekeeper on the half-quarter section.
In July, 1833, Waters, in a written agreement with Stillmai,
and Wm. A. Stewart, recited the terms on which he and Still.
man agreed to improve the land, to wit: that the entry was to
be fnade for their joint benefit on the proofs furnished by
Waters. Stewart, at the date of the agreement, stipulated to

SUPREME COURT.
Harkness &

ife vs. Underhiill.

pay Stillman's moiety of the purchase-money, and Waters was
bound to convey to Stewart and Stillman one-half of the eighty
acres; and it appears by a covenant, dated July 2, 1835, executed by Waters to Pettingal and Wolcott, that Waters's portion
was the western forty acres, which he bound himself to convey
to Pettingal and Wolcott, they being purchasers from Waters.
Waters soon thereafter died, leaving a widow and children, and
they entered the half-quarter section, in the name of Waters,
at the land office at Quincy, August 7,1835. The entry stood
in this condition till May, 1838, when the Commissioner of the
General Land Office informed the register and receiver at Quincy
that, Stephen Stillman's heirs having applied to them to enter
the half-quarter section, containing eighty acres, and having
adduced evidence to the Commissioner tending to prove that
Waters went on the land into a log-pen, without a roof, and
staid there only one night; furthermore, that the affidavits of
Waters and Trail being evasive, and not stating that Waters
was an actual settler on the 5th of April, 1832, the register
and receiver were, therefore, instructed, that if they believed
the facts, as respects the frauds practised to obtain the entry
in Waters's name, to treat it as void, for fraud, and allow Still.
man's heirs to enter the land; and this was accordingly done.
The entry in Stillman's name was made under the occupant law
of 1834.
We coritnr with the Commissioner's directions, and the finding of the register and receiver, that the proceeding of Waters
was a fraudulent contrivance to secure the valuable privilege
of a preference of entry. It was an attempt to speculate on
his part, and also on the part of Stillman, his co-partner, by
fraud and falsehood. They both knew equally well that Waters
was no actual settler on the public lands at any time, and that
the affidavits of Waters and Trail were false.
The principal ground on which the bill is founded assumes
that the complainant, as assignee of Waters's heirs, is entitled
to a decree against the respondent, because his title was derived
through Stillman, and that Stillman came into possession under
Waters, and therefore Stillman's assignee cannot dispute thq
title of him under whom he held possession, according to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

825

Harcness & Wife vs. linderhill.
I

doctrine maintained by this court in the case of Thredgill vs.
intard, (12 How., 24.)
In Thredgill's case the transaction was fair, and obviously
honest. The consideration between the parties was full and
undoubted; their contracts bound them. But in this case,
there was no legal contract between Stillman and Waters.
They combined to defraud the Government; their agreement
was contrary to public policy, because it was intended by contrivance to take the land out of the market at public sale-a
cherished policy of the Government. Such an agreement can
have no standing in a court of justice.
But there is another defence equally conclusive. The bill
seeks the legal title from Underhill; he holds under a patent,
dated in 1888; he purchased in 1841, and has been in uninterrupted possession ever since. This suit was brought in 1854.
In the meantime, the land sued for has been partly laid off into
lots, and become city property; yet, Waters's claim lay dormant
after his entry was set aside at the General Land Office for
eighteen years, and fourteen years after the patent in Stillman's
name was issued, and the land conveyed to Underhill by Wren.
Tinderhill, and those holding under him, have held possession
from 1841 to the time when this suit was brought; and, in the
meantime, the land had greatly increased in value, and changed
in its circumstances. These facts present a case on which a
court of equity cannot decree for the complainant, if there was
no other defence.
The question is again raised, whether this entry, having been
allowed by the register and receiver, could be set aside by the
Commissioner. All the officers administering the public lands
were bound by the regulations p'ublished May 6, 1836. 2 L.
L. & 0., 92. These regulations prescribed the mode of proceeding to vacate a fraudulent occupant entry, and were pursued in the case before the court.
This question has several times been raised and decided in
this court, upholding the Commissioner's powers. Garlandvs.
Winn, (20 How., 8;) Lytle vs. The State of Arkansas, (22 How.)
; For the reasons above stated, it is ordered that the decree
of the Circuit Court be affirmed.

