DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

427

Vance vs. Campbdl el al.

VAICE VS.

CAMPBELL ET AL.

1. Where a patentee, suing for an infringement of his patent, declares
upon a combination of elements which he asserts constitute the
novelty of his invention, he cannot, in his proofs, abandon a part
of such combination and maintain his claim to the rest.
2. Much less can he prove any part of the combination immaterial or nseless.
3. The combination is an entirety; if one of the elements be given up,
the thing claimed disappears.
4. The 9th section of the act of 1837, (5 U. S. Stat., p. 194,) which provides that the suit shall not be defeated where the patentee claims
more than he has invented, applies only to cases where the part invented can be clearly distinguished from that claimed but not in
vented.
5. In a suit for the infringement of a patent right, no notice is necessary
to justify the admission of evidence on behalf of the defendant to
show the improvements existing at the date of the plaintiff's invention in the class of articles to which it belongs.
6. The rules of evidence prescribed by the laws of a State are rules of
decision for the United States courts while sitting within the limits
of such State within the meaning and subject to the exceptions contained in the 34th section of the judiciary act..
7. Where a bill of exceptions sets out that a witness was offered, was objected to on the ground of incompetency, and rejected by the court
below, but does not state what facts he was called to prove, this court
will not presume that his testimony would have been immaterial if
it had been heard.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Ohio.
This suit was commenced in the Circuit Court at'Cincinnati,
December term, 1859, by Vance against Campbell, Ellison, and
Woodrow. Judgment for defendants. Writ of error sued out
by plaintiff. The question argued here and the material facts
bearing upon it are fully discussed in the opinion of the court.
Messrs. Lee and Fisher, of Ohio, for plaintiff in error.

SUPREME COURT.
Fiance vs. Campbell et al.

lr.

Lincoln, of Ohio, for defendant in error.

Mr. Justice ilELSON. This is a wr-'t of error to the Circuit
Court of the United States of the southern district of Ohio.
The suit was brought by Vance against the defendants in the
court below, for the infringement of a patent for certain improvements in cooking stoves.
The patentee recites in his specification, that it has been
very difficult heretofore to make the bottom and back plates
of the oven sufficiently hot, and equally difficult to prevent
the front and top from becoming too much heated. For this
difficulty, he says, he has devised a remedy, which consists in
a particular arrangement of the flues, for the purpose of equalizing the draught above and below the oven.
To heat the oven equally on all sides, he further observes,
it must be uniformly enveloped with heated products of combustion; and, to this end, the flue is divided in front of the
oven into two branches, one passing above, the other below
the oven, and which reunite near the middle of the back flue,
where they enter the pipe i, or smoke-pipe, which is made to
descend to that point. The patentee then speaks of certain
irregularities that would still exist in the distribution of the
heat around the oven, to prevent which he places a plate A in
front of the cold-air chamber, so as to form a flue in front,
whose mouth is at the same distance from the flue above the
oven that the lower end of the pipe i in the back part of the
stove is below the oven; and thes6 flues being at all times unobstructed, their action will be uniform, and the heat be
equally distributed under all circumstances on the several sides
of the oven. The patentee then states, that he claims as new,
and for which he desires a patent, "the combination of the
diving pipe i with the flues F, arranged as herein described,
for the purpose of evenly distributing and equalizing the heat
on four sides of the oven, without using or requiring any
dampers, as herein set forth."
The main point in the case turned upon the question of infringement. The defendants' stove had no plate A in front of
the cold-air Phamber, forming a front flue; and, hence, one of

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

.429

Yance vs. Campbell et al.

the elements of the plaintiff's combination was not used; and,
if so, there would be no infringement. The plaintiff, however,
sought to get rid of the objection, by proving thht that part of
his contrivance and claim were immaterial and useless, and
that the diffusion of the heated air around all sides of the oven
would be as effectual without as with it. Assuming this proof
to be competent to help out the infringement, the patent would
stand on the combination of the diving pipe i and flues, as arranged, without the front flue, -formed by the plate A in frout
of the cold-air chamber, and the division of that flue called
the "mouth" in the specification.
Now, the plaintiff in his declaration sets out the patent, spe.
cification, and claim as issued to him by the Government, and
founds his action upon them as thus set out, and charges the
defendant as having infringed the invention as thus claimed.
The infringement as charged is denied. This is the issue
presented for trial, and which the defendants were called upon,
and were bound to prepare to meet. This issue involved the
question, whether or not the defendants had infringed the improvements in the cooking stove, consisting of a combination
of the diving pipe i with the flues, as arranged, one of which"
was a flue in front of the stove formed by plate A, the flue
being one of peculiar construction. It is quite apparent, if
this part of the combination is abandoned, and the remaining
part of it relied on alone, the issue is changed, and the defendants surprised, the pleadings misleading instead of advising them of the question to be tried.
It is true, by the ninth section of the act of 1837, (5 -U. S.
Stat., p. 194,) it i provided, that the suit shall not bo defeated
where the patentee claims more than he has invented; it must
be, however, in a case where the part invented can be clearly
distinguishable from that claimed, but not invented.
This provision cannot be applied to the present case, for
unless the combination is maintained, the whole of the invention fails. The combination i an entirety; if one of the elements is given up, the thing claimed disappears.
Besides the above view, it is most apparent, from an examination of the specification, that the patentee not only described;

SUPREME COURT.
Vance vs. Campbell et al.

but claimed the front flue formed by the plate A, fig. 2, as a
material and important part of the arrangement for distributing
equally the hot air on the several sides of the oven. To prevent irregularities, referred to and particularly described, he
observes: "I place the plate A, as in fig. 2, so that it will form
a flue in front of the cola chamber, whose mouth (as it is called)
is at the same distance from the flue above the oven that the
lower end of the pipe i is above the flue below the oven; and
these flues being at all times unobstructed, their action is uniform, and the heat is equally distributed, under all circumstances, on the several sides of the oven." The patentee might as
well have undertaken to prove any other part of the combination immaterial and useless, as the part above, and its uses so
particularly described. Indeed, according to the doctrine contended for, a patent would furnish no distinct evidence of the
thing invented, as that would depend upon what part of the
specification and claim the jury might think material or essen-

tial.
Several exceptions were taken to the admissibility of evidence oflered by the defendants, but without referring to them
specially, it will be a sufficient answer to say, that it was competent and relative as showing the state of the art in respect to
improvements in the manufacture of cooking stoves at the date
of the plaintiff's iivention. No notice was necessary in order
to justify the admission of evidence for this purpose.
The plaintiff, in the course of the trial, was offered as a witness, and objected to by the defendants as incompetent, and
his testimony was excluded. It is admitted that the testimony
of the parties to the suit is competent, according to the rules
of evidence in the State courts of Ohio.
The thirty-fourth section of the judiciary act provides that
the laws of the several States, with the exceptions there stated,
shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law
in the courts of the United States. This section has been construed to include the rules of evidence prescribed by the laws
of the State in all civil cases at common law not within the
exceptions therein mentioned. The point has not been, perhaps, expressly decided in a case reported in this court. but

DECEMBER
I

ERM, 1861.

.Hausslenechtvs. Claypool et al.

the principle has been recognised in several cases. (12 Peters,
89; 6 How., 1, 12 How., 361.)
The facts which this witness offered to prove are not stated
in the bill of exceptions. We cannot, therefore, disregard the
exception upon the idea that the testimony could not have been
material, or could not have changed the result of the verdict.
Judgment reversed-verre de novo.

EAUSSKNECHT VS.

CLAYPOOL ET AL.

1. The rules of evidence prescribed by the laws of a State are rules of
decision for the United States courts while sitting within the limits
of such State, within the meaning and subject to the exceptions
contained in the 34th section of the judiciary act.
2. Where a bill of exceptions sets forth that a witness was produced, was
asserted to be competent by his counsel, and was rejected by the
court, a court of error will imply that the witness was material to
sustain the issue without a direct statement to that effect in the bill
of exceptions.
3. Brevity in bills of exception commended.

Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Ohio.
Haussknecht brought trespass on the case against Claypool
and Lynn in the year 1859, for an infringement of his patent
for an improved running gear for carriages. The suit was
commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of Ohio and the' damages laid at $5,000. The
defendants pleaded the general issue and brought divers witnesses to prove that the plaintiff.was not the original inventor
of the thing he had patented, but that it had been described in
printed works, and was in actual public use at a time anterior
to the date of his patent. The plaintiff himself was produced
as a witness to sustain his own case. His counsel asserted that
by the law of Ohio (see. 310, Code of Civil Procedure) he was
a competent witness in his own behalf. The defendants ob-

