SUPREME COURT.
Bates vs. Illinois Central Railroad Company.

BATES vs. ILLINOIS

CENTRAL RAILROAD

COMPANY.

1. In ejeetment for land bounded by a river which has changed its bed
and formed a new channel since the date of the survey, it is proper
for the court to let the jury find whether the land in controversy is
within the tract surveyed and granted.
2. The jury is bound to find the river boundary to be where the plat of
the survey and the field-notes have designated it, though in fact the
river had at the time of the survey another channel through which
its waters generally flowed.
8. It is not material in such a case where the most usual channel of the
river was, nor whether the channel recognised in the survey and
field-notes was natural or artificial, constant or occasional.
4. The public, by the act of the proper officer, had a right to fix and declare the place of the river for the purposes of a survey and sale of
the lands, and a grantee cannot contradict the survey and claim beyon it by showing that the true channel of the river was really at
another place.
5. This court will not decide what are the rights of lake shore .proprietors whose fronts are swept away by the currents, nor to what extent they still own the lands covered with water, except in the case
of one who proves that he owned the land before the decretion took
place. Until the party shows his ownership of the shore all inquiry
respecting his rights in or under the waters adjoining is speculative
and useless.
Writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the northern district of Illinois.
This was ejectment in the Circuit Court brought by George
C. Bates against the Illinois Central Railroad Company for a
parcel of land called the "Sand Bar," now covered with water,
and which the plaintiff alleged in his declaration was a part of
the north fraction of section 10, town 9, in the city of Chicago.
The plaintiff's title to the north fraction of section ten was
not contested. The section was surveyed by public authority
in 1821. This fraction was pre-empted in 1831 by Robert A.
Kinzie, to whom a patent for it according to the survey was
issued in 18-37. The plaintiff held Kinzie's title..

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Bates vs. Illinois Central Railroad Company.

But the defendant denied that the Sand Bar in dispute was
within the proper limits of the plaintiff's fraction. The Chicago
river is 'one of the boundaries called for by the survey and
patent. Great changes have taken place in the bed and
mouth of the river during thirty years. What these changes
were, and when they took place, were subjects on which much
evidence was given by both parties. If the bed and mouth
of the river were at the place where they are laid down in the
plat of the survey and mentioned in the field-notes, then the
plaintifi's tract did not include the Sand Bar for which he
brought suit. The Circuit Court left it to the jury to say, as
matter of fact, what were the true boundaries of the tract, and
whether the Sand Bar was or was not included by them.
Previous to the erection of the piers in Chicago harbor,
(which commenced in 1833,) the land in controversy'was dry,
but afterwards the currents created by those piers washed it
away, and it gradually sunk beneath the waters of the lake.
The plaintiff asserted, as matter of Iaw, that his title was not
changed or divested by that fact. The court charged the jury
that, assuming the plaintiff to be the owner of the land when
it was above water, if-he suffered it to be gradually washed
away until it was entirely covered, and then permitted it to
remain an open roadstead for more than seven years, the title
became vested in the public, and he could not recover.
To these rulings of the Circuit Court exceptions were taken,
and the verdict and judgment being for the defendant, the
plaintiff brought the cause up to the Supreme Court by writ
of error.
Upon the point last mentioned-namely, the destruction of
the plaintiff's title by the action of the water and by his failure
to reclaim it from the bottom of the lake for more than seven
years-the arguments here were very elaborate. But it will be
seen by the opinion of Mr. Justice Galron that the cause turned
entirely on the question of boundary, which was submitted to
the jury, and found against the plaintiff.on evidence regarded
as conclusive.
Mr. Wdlts, of Illinois, for plaintiff in error.

SUPREME COURT.
Bates vs. Illinois CentralRailroad Company.

Mr. Joy, of Michigan and Mr. Noyes, of Illinois, for defendant in error.
Mr. Justice CATROlN. This cause comes here by writ of
error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the northern
district of Illinois. The railroad company is sued in ejectment
by Kinzie's representatives for land lying under water at the
city of Chicago; the end of the road running into Lake Michigan. The controversy depends on the following charge of the
court to the jury:
"By the act of Congress of July 1, 1836, entries of the character of Kinzie's were confirmed, and patents were to be issued
therefor, as in other cases. A patent accordingly issued to
Kinzie on the 9th of March, 1837. There can be no reasonable doubt, I think, that this title, thus perfected, related back to
the entry of Kinzie in May, 1831, and the law gave it effect from
that date precisely as if it had been made in the proper land
office.
"The land had been surveyed in 1821, and on the plat of the
Government survey the north fraction of section 10 is represented as having the Chicago river on the south, and Lake
Michigan on the east. The river is represented as flowing out
in nearl, a straight line into the lake. The fact seems to be, that
from 1816 to 1821 the river, instead of flowing out, as represented on the survey, just before it entered the lake, made a
sharp curve to the south, and thereby formed a sand-bar or
spit of land between it and the lake, which has given rise to
this controversy. This sand-bar existed in 1821, but it is not
noticed in the plat of the survey. In 1821, the river seems to
have run into the lake, according to the plat, but it is said this
was in consequence of an artificial channel cut through the
sand-bar. This channel was stopped up in the winter of
1821-2, but was opened again in the spring of 1822 by a freshet,
and water continued to flow out there in the summer of 1822;
but during 1821 and 1822 more or less water passed from
what had been the mouth prior to 1821. After 1822, the direct channel was stopped up, and, with an occasional exception, caused by the act of man or by a freshet, the river flowed

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Bates vs. Illinois Central Railroad Company.

into the lake up to 1833 in its original and natural bed. In
1833 and in 1834 the Government constructed piers across the
sand-bar, and the river from that time has flowed through
those piers; the old channel south of the pier having ceased
to bear the waters to the lake, because the south pier was run
across it, as well as across the sand-bar. In the construction
of the piers, the Government of the United States did not purchase or condemn the land, but Kinzie seems to have acquiesced in the act; and, indeed, as already stated, it was not
till 1836 that Kinzie's title was confirmed."
An exception was taken to the concluding part of the charge,
which is as follows:
"Under this state of facts, the substantial truths of which are
not denied, the land of Kinzie, covered by his entry and purchase, would be the tract within the following boundaries, as
they existed at the time of the entry, (there being no question
made, but that the Government plats, by which sales were
made, show that the whole land north of the river and south
of the north line of the fraction was sold as one parcel,) and
are the north line and west line of fractional section 10, according to the public survey, and the Chicago river and Lake
Michigan, as they existed; that is, it would include all the dry,
firm land there was at that time between the west line of the
Aection and the lake, and the north line of the section and the
river. The river, the lake, and the two lines of the fractional
section 10 constituted the boundaries. Whether the land in
controversy was within these boundaries is a fact to be found
by the jury, depending upon the evidence before them."
The facts as r~cited were not disputed; nor is any exception
taken to the statement made, preceding the court's conclusionon the law and facts of the case.
The land trespassed on and sued for, as described in the
plaintiff's declaration, lies south of the south pier, is now covered with water, and a part of. the bottom of the lake; on
which land the end of the railroad is located. It was formerly
overlaid with the sand-bar, which was swept away by the current the piers created. It is situated outside of fractional section ten, as its boundary was described by the judge to the
jury. And this raises the question, by what rule is the pub.

SUPREME COURT.
Bate&vs. Illinois CentralRailroad Company.

lic survey to which the patent refers for identity to be construed? The land granted is 102 29-100 acres, lying north of
the Chicago river, bounded by it on the south, and by the lake
:)n the east. The mouth of the river being found, establishes
the southeast corner of the tract. The plat of the survey, and
a call for the mouth of the river in the field-notes, show that
the survey made in 1821 recognised the entrance of the river
into the lake through the sand-bar in an almost direct line
easterly, disregarding the channel west of the sand-bar, where
the river most usually flowed before the piers were erected.
It is immaterial where the most usual mouth of the river was
in 1821; nor whether this northern mouth was occasional, or
the flow of the water only temporary at particular times, and
this flow produced to some extent by artificial means, by a cut
through the bar, leaving the water to wash out an enlarged
channel in seasons of freshets. The public had the option to
declare the true mouth of the river, for the purposes of a survey and sale of the public land. And the court below properly left it to the jury to find whether land on which the railroad lies is within the boundary of the tract surveyed and
granted. According to the judge's construction of the plat
and calls, and the patent bounded on the survey, the jury was
bound to find for the defendant, and therefore this ruling was
conclusive of the controversy. In regard to the matter so much and so ably discussed in
the argument here, as to the rights of proprietors on the lake
shore, where their fronts were swept away by currents, and to
what extent they still owned the lands covered with water,
undoubtedly theirs before the decrease took place, we do not
feel ourselves called on to decide, because this plaintiff was
not the owner of the land sued for before the decrease occurred,
and could have no proprietary rights in the bottom of the lake.
Before a proprietor can set up his claim to accretions and the
like, he must first show that he owns the shore; and if he fail
first to establish his ownership, judicial inquiry respecting his
rights in or under the waters adjoining are abstractions and
useless.
Judgment of the Circuit Court a.ffirmed.

