DECEMBER
I

ERM, 1861.

.Hausslenechtvs. Claypool et al.

the principle has been recognised in several cases. (12 Peters,
89; 6 How., 1, 12 How., 361.)
The facts which this witness offered to prove are not stated
in the bill of exceptions. We cannot, therefore, disregard the
exception upon the idea that the testimony could not have been
material, or could not have changed the result of the verdict.
Judgment reversed-verre de novo.

EAUSSKNECHT VS.

CLAYPOOL ET AL.

1. The rules of evidence prescribed by the laws of a State are rules of
decision for the United States courts while sitting within the limits
of such State, within the meaning and subject to the exceptions
contained in the 34th section of the judiciary act.
2. Where a bill of exceptions sets forth that a witness was produced, was
asserted to be competent by his counsel, and was rejected by the
court, a court of error will imply that the witness was material to
sustain the issue without a direct statement to that effect in the bill
of exceptions.
3. Brevity in bills of exception commended.

Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of Ohio.
Haussknecht brought trespass on the case against Claypool
and Lynn in the year 1859, for an infringement of his patent
for an improved running gear for carriages. The suit was
commenced in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of Ohio and the' damages laid at $5,000. The
defendants pleaded the general issue and brought divers witnesses to prove that the plaintiff.was not the original inventor
of the thing he had patented, but that it had been described in
printed works, and was in actual public use at a time anterior
to the date of his patent. The plaintiff himself was produced
as a witness to sustain his own case. His counsel asserted that
by the law of Ohio (see. 310, Code of Civil Procedure) he was
a competent witness in his own behalf. The defendants ob-

SUPREME COURT.
H ausskmeclh vs. Claypool et al.

jected on the grounds. First, that he was a party to the cause,
and, therefore, incompetent even by the laws of Ohio. Second,
that no notice of his intention to testify had been given to the
defendants or their attorney; and, third, that by a rule of the
court, parties to suits were incompetent witnesses. These objections the court sustained, and the plaintiff's counsel took a
bill of exceptions. Verdict for defendants. Writ of error to
Supreme Court of the United States sued. out by plaintiff.
Mlfessrs. Lee and Fisher, of Ohio, for plaintiff in error. Section 310 of the Ohio Code of Civil Procedure reads thus. "No
person shall be disqualified as a witness in any civil action or
proceeding by reason of his interest in the event of the same,
as a party or otherwise, or by reason of his conviction of a
crime, but such interest or conviction may be shown for the
purpose of affecting his credibility " The 34th section of the
judiciary act of 1789 provides, "that the laws of the several
States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of
the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be
regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in the
courts of the United States, in cases where they apply" It
would seem to require no proof to show that a rule of evidence
was "a rule of decision," within the meaning of this act. But
this court has expressly decided that question McNiel vs. Holbrook, (12 Pet., 84.) "The rules of evidence prescribed by the
statute of a State are always followed by the courts of the
United States when sitting in the State in commercial cases as
well as in others." Sims vs. Rundley, (6 How., 1.) But it may
be said that there was a rule in the court below which disqualified this witness. It is only necessary to reply to this that the
court below could not abrogate or overcome a statute of the
State by a general rule, any better than by a decision. The
rule and the ruling stand on the same footing. No notice that
the plaintiff would testify as a witness was necessary in the
court below Section 313 of the Ohio code, which requires
such notice, was repealed April 12th, 1858. See section 3d
of the statute of Ohio, of said date, entitled "An act to amend
the 313th and 314th sections of the Code of Civil Procedure."

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

433

ffausscnecht vs. Claypool et a.

It is objected that the bill of exceptions does not aver that
the rejected evidence was material to the plaintiff's cause.
In Smith vs. Garnngton, (4 Cranch, 62,) this court held, that
if evidence were illegally admitted, the court could not inquire
into its weight or importance, but would reverse the judgmerit; and we suppose the converse of this proposition is
equally true, and if evidence be illegally rejected, this court
will not inquire into its importance, but will reverse the judgment.
Mr Lzneoln, of Ohio, for defendant in error. It is true, as
claimed on behalf of the plaintiff in error, "that the laws of
the several States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or
statutes of the United States, shall otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision, in trials at con
mon law in the courts of the United States, in cases whei t
they apply " And it is also true, that the Code of Civil Pr, cedure of the State of Ohio provides, in its 310th section, tht t
"no person shall be disqualified as a witness in any civil ai tion or proceeding by reason of his interest in the event c f
the same, as a party or otherwise." But the same code, in r &
604th and 605th sections, enacts, that its provisions shall not
affect "any special statutory remedy," and that "where by
statute a civil action, legal or equitable, is given, and the mode
of proceeding therein is prescribed, this code shall not affect
the proceedings under such statute, until the Legislature shall
3therwise provide, but the parties may, if they see fit, proceed
under this act, and in all such cases, as far as it may be conBistent with the statute giving such action, and practicable
under this code, the proceedings shall be conducted in conformity thereto." And it is provided in the same code, section 106, "that every pleading of fact must be verified by the
affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney;" and in sections.
83, 85, and 92, "that the rules of pleading heretofore existing
are abolished," and that the pleadings shall contain "a statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, (or the defence,) in ordinary and concise language." Is an action for
the infringement of rights secured by a patent, in which the
VOL. I.

28

SUPREME COURT.
Hausskcnecht vs. Claypool el al.

pleadings are specifically regulated by the act of Congress, a
case to which the provisions of the Ohio code necessarily
applyI
It will I)e perceived that the provisions of the statute of Ohio,
which makes the parties to the record competent witnesses, are
by no means of universal application. The design of the new
system of civil procedure was to abolish all distinctions between
the pleadings in cases at law and in equity, and to simplify
issues, by requiring the pleadings to be in ordinary language,
and to be verified by oath, and to abbreviate trials by permitting the parties to testify But it was not designed to apply
the new rules of evidence to cases where the new system of
pleading is inapplicable. The right of the court below, under
its power "to make and establish all necessary rules for the orderly conducting of business, provided such rules are not repugnant to the laws of the United States," to prevent by rule
the parties to the record from testifying, is very clear.
It would have been manifestly improper for the court below
to have adopted the provision of the Ohio code changing the
law of evidence in the "civil action," without at the same time
adopting the modes of pleading established by the same code,
by which each party, in advance of the trial, is advised of the
nature of the testimony to be expected from the adverse party,
by the verification, under oath, of the statement of his case, in
ordinary and concise language. And the court, in establishing
arule which excludes such testimony from thejury, was equally
within the bounds of the law, and within the rules of propriety
But, at all events, the judgment in the present action cannot be reversed because of the exclusion of the plaintiff's evidence. The record discloses nothing more than that the plaintiff offered himself as a witness, that the court refused to permit him to testify, and that he excepted. It is not shown that
his evidence, if admitted, would have been material, nor does
it appear that the exception was taken at the time. And all
presumptions are against the existence of error.
Mr. Justice NELSON . This suit was brought by the plaintiff in error against the defendants for the infringement of a

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Haussknecht vs. Claypool et al.

patent for an improvement in the ru.ning gear of carriages.
The verdict and judgment were for the defendants.
The only question presented in the bill of exceptions is,
whether or not the plaintiff was a competent witness to give
testimony in his own behalf. According to the law of Ohio,
parties are competent witnesses. The case falls within the
opinion of the court just delivered in the case of Vance vs.
Campbell and others. It is objected that the bill of exceptions
does not state that the witnesswas material, and hence there
could be no error in his exclusion. The bill of exceptions is
brief, presenting only this single question, and stating no more
of the case than is necessary to present it, which practice the
court commends.
The bill states that on the trial theplaintiff, to sustain the
issue on his part, offered himself as a witness, and his counsel
claimed he was competent, &c. Though it would have been
more in conformity with the usual practice to have stated that
the witness was material to sustain the issue, we think that
enough is stated to imply the materiality, and that this objec6i n cannot be maintained.
Tudgment reversed-vernre de novo.

