DECEMBER TERM, i861.

585

Pindell vs. Mullikin et al.

to the established rule of proceeding, under the circumstances
stated, are to be dismissed, and a decree to that effect entered,
so that the parties aggrieved may, if they think proper, bring
up the questions on appeal for review from the final decree.

PINDELL VS. MULLIKIN ET AL.

A bill claiming title to, and praying for po.;session of, lands will be dis,
missed, if the complainant and those through whom he claims have
taken no steps to assert their right for twenty years; the land being,
all that time, in the adverse possession of the defendants and their
ancestor.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Missouri.
This was a bill in equity brought in the Circuit Courof the
United States for the district Missouri, by Richard Pindell, of
Kentucky, against Napoleou B. Mullikin, Jerome B. Mullikin,
Charles B. Wiggins, and Virginia, his wife, John R. Shepley,
William H. McPherson, P. Dexter Tiffany, Samuel, Willi,
James Clements, jr., and David H. Armstrong, citizens of the
State of Missouri.
The complainant prayed to have decreed to him fifty arpents
of land in the neighborhood of St. Louis, and deduced his title
from John R. Sloan, the sole heir and legal representative of
one John Sloan, to whom the land claimed was alleged to have
been conveyed by David Musick. The defendants had been
in possession of it for more than twenty years before the filing
of the bill.
John Sloan, the father of the plaintiff's grantor, died in 1818,
without having recorded any deed fro.m the previous owner to
himself. It was supposed to have been lost as early as the
death of Sloan. No steps were taken for forty years to assert
any claim under it. According to the allegations of the bill,
the representatives of Sloan knew all the time of his title to
the land, yet they commenced no suit at all, and their assignee
only after a lapse of forty years. J. R. Sloan, the son under

SUPREME COU RT.
Findell vs. Hullikin et al.

whom appellant claimed title, came of age in 1834, and knew
as early as 1838 that Mullikin claimed portions of the tract in
controversy. It was alleged that he took professional advice
on the subject in 1838, but it was not until twenty years after
that time, and twenty-four years after he came of age, that any
suit was instituted.
No counsel appeared for appellant.
lT. Shepley, of Missouri, for appellees. Laches, much less
flagrant than this, will prevent a court of eQuity from granting
relief even in a clear case. 2 Story Eq., jiris., (7th ed.,) Sec.
1520, p. 889, note 4, and cases there cited; Holt vs. Rogers,
(8 Peters, 420 et al.;) Patte vs. Carroll,(8 Cranch, 471;) lloore
vs. Blake, (1 B11 & P., 69;) Boone vs. 2issourl Iron Co., (17
How., 340.)
Mr. Justice CATRON. Pindell filed his bill against the respondents and others, to have decreed to him, as assignee of
John R. Sloan, fifty acres of land adjoining the city of St.
Louis. The respondents rely on the act of limitations as a
defence, (among others,) alleging that they have been in adverse possession of the land for which they are sued for more
than twenty years before the suit was brought.
John R. Sloan became of age in 1834; the bill so alleges.
The land was confirmed to the father of the respondents, under
whom they claim as heirs, by the act of Congress of July 4th,
1836, and the bill was filed in January, 1857, more than twenty
years after the legal title was vested by the confirmati6n.
The bill admits that Mullikin's heirs hold the legal title,
and they prove that a division of the land confirmed took
place among various owners, and that about ten arpents of it
were allottedto Mullikin, the ancestor. This occurred in 1836;
that immediately after the partition, Mullikin took possession
of the land allotted to him, and he and his heirs have held it
in possession ever since.
The claim set up by the bill is barred by twenty years' adverse possession. If, however, this defence w as not conclusive

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Sherman vs. Smith.

of the controversy, our opinion is, that no sufficient evidence
that the contract alleged to have once existed is proved; and
that the decree below dismissing the bill was also proper for
want of proof to sustain its allegations.
-Decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.

SHERMAN VS. SMITH.

The State of New York established a general banking law, containing .
provision that members of an association, organized under it, should
not be individually liable for its debts unless by their own agreement,
but reserving to the State the right to repeal or change the law. Af* terwards an amendment to the State constitution and an act of the
Legislature declared that the shareholders of all banks which should
continue to issue notes after a certain time must be individually responsible. Held:
1. That the stockholders of a bank, organized under the general banking
law before the amendment of the constitution, are liable for the
debts of the association in their individual capacity.
2. That the articles of association, made by the stockholders at the time
they organized themselves as a bank, were not a contract with the
State.
8. That the change made by the constitution and subsequent act of the
Legislature were not the less constitutional and valid, as against this
bank, because the stockholders, in their articles of association, had
declared that they would not be individually bound for the debts
of the concern.
Writ of error to the Supreme Court of New York.
Oliver Lee & Company's Bank, at Buffalo, was organized in
January, 1844, under the act of the Legislature to authorize
banking, passed 18th April, 1838. Watts Sherman was one
of the shareholders. In the articles of association it was agreed
that the shareholders should not be liable, individually, for the
debts of the bank, and this was in accordance with the act of
1838, under which the association was organized, and which
declared that-no shareholder should be liable unless the articles

