SUPREME COURT.
Hodge vs. Combs.

HODGE VS. COMBS.
1. If one person constitutes another his "general and special agent to
do and transact all manner of business," this does not necessarily
authorize the agent to sell stocks or other property of the principal.
2. If the agent sells public stocks under such vague and indefinite authority, it is at least necessary for the purchaser, when his title comes in
controversy, to show that he bought in good faith and paid a fair
consideration.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Columbia.
Leslie Combs brought his bill in the Circuit Court against
John L. Hodge, administrator of Andrew Hodge, deceased,
William L. Hodge, and James Love, complaining that Love,
having in his hands certain bonds of the Republic of Texas
which belonged to the plaintiff, sold and transferred them for
his own benefit, and without authority or consent of the plaintiff, and that he, the plaintiff, had since learned that they were
in possession of and claimed by the other, defendants. The
bill prays that the defendants be restrained from receiving any
money on the bonds, and that the bonds be surrendered to the
plaintiff as the true owner, and for further relief.
The answer denies all the main facts set forth in the bill,
asserts that Love had authority to make the transfer, and that
the plaintiff has no title' or just claim to the bonds.
When the cause was first heard the Circuit Court dismissed
the bill, but that decree was reversed by the Supreme Court on
appeal, and the record remanded for a further hearing. 21
How., 397. Afterwards a decree was made below that the
bonds be surrendered to the plaintiff. From this decree the
present appeal was taken by the defendants. At the last hearing the evidence was the same as on the first, except the paper
embodied in the opinion of Mr. Justice Grier, which was not
produced until after the cause had been remanded.
Mr.Beverdy Johnson, of Maryland, for the appellants.

The

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

193

.Hodgevs. Combs.

power of attorney, dated the 13th Febryary, 1840, takes the
case out of the principle decided on the former appeal. It is
a general power, and gave the attorney all the control over the
bonds which the principal himself could have exercised.
Mr. Bradley, of Washington city, for the appellees. The
instrument relied on is wholly insufficient to justify the tranfer
of the plaintiff's stock. By the law of Texas it could be transferred only on the books of the stock commissioner. 1 Tenn.
R., 334. A general authority like this is not sufficient for any
special purpose. Paley on Agency, 2; 15 East., 408. If it
were, it would authorize the attorney to sell all the property of
his principal, or to apply for a divorce in the name of his principal if he had a wife living in Texas.
But even if the paper were sufficieni, the defendants have
failed to come within the requirements of the law in other respects. This court has decided that they must show the consideration paid to the attorney for the bonds; and they have
not done so.
Mr. Justice GRIER. This case was before this court at December term, 1858, and may be found reported in 21 Howard,
397. It was then remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to allow the parties to amend their pleadings, and take
further testimony.
The important question of the case was, whether Love had
any authority to transfer the Texas bonds of Combs, and
whether Hodge, who claimed them, had given-value for them..
This court, in remanding the case, there say: "It appears
that the plaintiff did not direct the sale or transfer of the stock
in question, and that they were not disposed of on his account;
and if there had been a power of attorney containing an authority to sell, the circumstances would have imposed upon the
defendant the necessity of showing there was no collusion with
Love."

The defendants were thus required to establish two facts in
order to support his defence: first, a sufficient power of atVoL. i.

13

SUPREME COURT.
Hodge vs. Combs.

torney to Love to convey the stock; and, secondly, payment
of a bona fide consideration by Hodge.
Of the latter of these he has given no evidence at all; and
of the former,'a paper which, as a power of attorney, may be
construed to confer almost any or no power. It is brief and
comprehensive, and is as follows:
"I, Leslie Combs, do hereby constitute and appoint James
Love, of Texas, my general and special agent to do and transact all manner of business in which I may be interested there,
hereby ratifying and confii-ming the acts of my agent as fully
as if done by myself.
"Witness my hand and seal, the 18th day of February, 1840.

"LESLIE COMBS.

[SEAL.]"

It is clear, from the correspondence between the parties to
it, that Combs, by this agency to "transact all manner of business," never supposed that he had authorized his agent to sell
his property, and apply the proceeds to his own use. Nor did
the agent so construe it till it became necessary to find an excuse for his abuse of his trust.
On the first trial of this case the respondent did not produce
this very vague and carelessly drawn instrument as his authority for selling the stock, but relied on a blank endorsement of
the payee upon the bonds. No prudent man would accept a
title to property executed by an attorney in fact, under a
power in such very general and equivocal terms; a man may
have "a general and special agency to transact all manner of
business," without necessarily including therein a power to
sell. If it had appeared that this paper had been presentea
to the treasurer of Texas as a power of attorney to Love to
transfer the stock on the books, and if a -transfer had been
made on the faith of its sufficiency to Iodge, who had paid a
valuable and full consideration, he would have presented a case
which might have called for a liberal construction of this vague
and indefinite instrument. But as none of these facts appear,
'weare not called upon to speculate on the possible construe-

DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

195

Atagwire vs. j1ler et al.

tions this paper might be constrained to yield inder other circumstances. It is sufficient to say, that, by the previous decision of this court, the defendant was permitted to amend his
pleadings in order to prove two facts, both of which were
necessary to constitute a good defence. The testimony to support one of them, to say the best of it, is doubtful, and the
other is wholly without proof.
Decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.

MAGWIRE

vs.

TYLER ET AL.

1. Surveys under confirmations of Spanish titles in the Upper Louisiana
country are, in regard to their correctness, within the jurisdiction of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and that officer has

power to adjudge the question of accuracy preliminary to the issuing
of a patent.
2. The Secretary of the Interior has the power of supervision and appeal
in all matters reiating to the General Land Office, and that power is
co-extensive with the authority of the Commissioner to adjudge.
S. The Secretary, in the exercise of his supervisory powers, may lawfully
set aside a survey made under a confirmed Spanish grant, order
another to be made, and issue a patent upon it.
4. Where the construction of the acts of Congress, defining the powers
of the Secretary of the Interior, is drawn in question in a State
court, and the decision is against the title set up by maintaining the
validity of the Secretary's decision, this court has jurisdiction to
revise the case on writ of error.
This case came up on writ Qf error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Missouri. It was commenced in the St. Louis
Land Court, (equity side,) by petition and summons, agreeably
to the code of Missouri. The plaintiff, John Magwire, claimed
four arpents by four of land lying in the county of St. Louis,
of which the defendants, Mary L. Tyler and others, were wrongfully in possession. The petition prayed a decree for title in
them-for possession -- for an account of profits, and an injunction against waste. The defendants answered at length,

