SUPREME COURT.
Nelson el al. vs. Foodruffet al.

:NELSON

ET AL. VS. WOODRUFF ET AL.

WOODRUFF ET AL. VS.

NELSON ET AL.

1. A bill of lading in which the carrier acknowledges that the goods
have been received by him in good order is prima facie evidence
of that fact; but if a loss occurs, he is not precluded from showing
that it proceeded from some cause which was not apparent at the
time he received them.
2. When goods in the custody of a common carrier are lost or damaged,
the presumption of law is that it was occasioned by his default, and
the burden is upon him to prove that it arose from a cause for which
he is not responsible.
8. The carrier is not responsible for leakage of a liquid occasioned by the
peculiar nature of the article itself, or by secret defects which existed in the casks, but were unknown when they were shipped.
4. Nor is he answerable for diminution or leakage from barrels, though
they be such as are commonly used for similar purposes, if the barrels become unfitted to hold their contents by causes connected
with the nature and condition of the article which the carrier could
not control.
5. Hog's lard having certain qualities which make its leakage from ordinary barrels or wooden casks unavoidable in hot weather, a person
who ships it in that condition from a southern port for a long voyage,
through low latitudes in midsummer, takes upon himself the risk
of all loss necessarily proceeding from that cause.
6. In an admiralty suit, an objection to the deposition of a witness, on the
ground of incompetency from interest, must be made at the hearing; it comes too late if it be deferred until the argument.
7. Where a deposition was taken by a person who was both commissioner
and clerk of the court, and the proctor of the opposing party knew
that the deposition had been taken, it cannot be ruled out on the
ground that it was not sealed up, that the preliminary proof of materiality was not made, or that notice of its being filed was not
given.
These suits were brought in the District Court for the
southern district of New York. They were cross-libels in
personam on the same maritime contract, and the evidence was

DECEMBER IT[RM, 1861.

157

Nelson et al. vs. Woodruff et aL

identical in both cases. Nelson and his associates were the
owners of the ship Maid of Orleans, on board of which a cargo
of lard in barrels and tierces was shipped at N~ew Orleans for
New York in July, 1854, consigned to Woodruff & Co., at
NTew York. The ship-owners demanded the freight according
to the bills of lading, and the consignees claimed damages for
the non-delivery of a large part of the lard, which, they alleged,
was lost by leakage during the voyage. The question of law
raised was, whether the contract of affreightment, under the
circumstances, made the ship-owners responsible for the loss.
On the hearing in the District Court, the deposition of the
master of the ship was offered by the owners and objected to
by the counsel of the consignees on the ground, 1. That no
preliminary proof had been made of the witness's materiality.
2. That it was not sealed up; and, 3. That no notice was given
of its being filed; but the commissioner who took the deposition being the clerk of the court, and the consignees' proctor
knowing that the deposition bad been taken, the court (Betts,
J.) overruled the objections. At the argument, another objection was taken to the same deposition that the witness was
interested. The court held that it was too late; it should have
been made on the hearing.

After argument and consideration of the whole evidence in
both cases, the District Court dismissed the libel of the consignees, and decreed in favor of the ship-owners for the freight;
and these decrees being afterwards affirmed by the Circuit
Court, the consignees took appeals to the Supreme Court.
Mr. Dean, of N~ew York, for the appellant, cited: Angel on
Carriers, § 210; Warden' vs. Greer, (6 Watts, 424;) Abbot on
Shipping, 346; 1 Green1. Ev., §§ 207, 305; Dezell vs. Odell, (3
Hill, 221;) Welland Can. Co. vs. Hathaway, (8 Wend., 483;)
Bradstreet vs. Herren, (2 Blatch., 116;) Bank of Pittsburg vs.
B7eal, (22 How., 96;) Goodman vs. Simonds, (20 How., 363;)
Clark vs. Barnwell, (12 How., 272;) Ellis vs. Willard, (5 Selden, 529.)
Mr. Goodman, of New York, for the appellees, cited:

3

SUPREME COURT.
Nilson et al. vs. Woodruff et aL.

Kent, 8th ed., 289; Angel on Carriers, §§ 211, 214; Clark vs.
Barnwell, (12 Howard R., 272;) Downe vs. Steam Nay. C., (5
Ellis & Bain, 195;) Trow vs. Vemnont C B. 1B. Co., (24 Vermont, 487;) Hawkins vs. Cooper, (8 Carr & Payne, 473;) Button
vs. Hudson B. R. Co., (18 Ij. Y. R., 248;) Clark vs. Barnwell,
(12 How. R., 272;) 2 Boulay Paty. Droit., Commercial, 309,
313; The Ship J1artha,(1 Olcott Ad. R., 140;) Bradstreet vs.
Herren, (1 Abbot Ad. R., 209;) Terega vs. Popp, (ib., 397;) AnWel on Carriers, § 211; 3 Kent, 8th ed., 289.
Mir. Justice WAY-NE. We are now about to decide two appeals in admiralty from the Circuit Court U. S. of the southern district of New York.
They are substantially cross-actions, and the testimony is
the same in both. They have been fully argued, and shall be
discussed by us with reference to the rights and liabilities of
the parties growing out of their pleadings, and the bills of
lading upon which they rely.
William Nelson and others are the owners of the ship Maid
of Orleans, and they have filed their libel to recover from John
0. Woodruff and Robt. M. Henning, survivors of the firm of
James E. Woodruff & Co., eighteen hundred and thirty-eight
dollars eleven cents, with interest from the fourteenth of August, eighteen hundred and fifty-four, for the freight, with
primage and average accustomed, of a large quantity of lard
which was carried in their ship, in barrels and tierces, from
New Orleans to New York, for which the master of the ship
had affirmed for the shippers in two bills of lading; that they
had been shipped in good order and condition, &c., and were
to be delivered in like good order at New York, the dangers
of the sea and fire only excepted, to James t. Woodruff & Co.,
or to their assigns, freight to be paid by him or them at the
rate of $1 15 per barrel, and $1 50 per tierce, with five per
cent. primage and average accustomed; and the libellants declare that the lard, upon the, arrival of the ship, had been delivered to the consignees, and was accepted by them.
To this the respondents filed a joint answer, admitting the
shipment, claiming that they had been made in conformity

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

159

Nelson et al. vs. TMoodruff et al.

with the bills of lading, affirming the arrival of the ship in 1New
York, and averring that only a part of the lard had been delivered, and allege that the agents of the libellants had taken
so little care in receiving the casks and tierces on board of
the ship, and in the stowing andconveyance of them, and in
the discharge of them at New York, that a large quantity had
been lost, about sixty thousand pounds, of the value of six thou.
sand dollars and upwards, and that the loss or diminution in
its weight had not been lost by the perils of the sea, or from
fire. They further answer, that, relying upon the bills of lading, the consignees, James E. Woodruff & Co., had made
large advances upon them to the shippers of the lard. They
then declare that, for cause stated by them, they were not liable to pay the freight and primage, but that the owners of the
ship were answerable for the loss of the lard, and liable to pay
them more than six thousand dollars, and claim to recoup
against the freight and primage so nmuch of the damage as they
may have sustained as will be sufficient to liquidate and discharge the amount claimed for freight. When they answered
the respondents, they at the same time filed a libel against the
owners of the ship, propounding substantially the particulars
of what was in their answer to the libel-so much so, that we
will not repeat them; irdeed, there is no addition to it, nor
will it be necessary to set out again the articles of their answer
to the libel filed against them, for they are a repetition of their
own original libel, except in one particular, upon which the
controversy was made exclusively to turn by the counsel on
both sides in the argument of the case before us. That was,
that the lard, as such, had not been in good order for shipping
when put on board of the ship, inasmuch as it was then in a
liquid state, and hbld in that condition been put into barrels
and tierces, which, with the heat of the weather then and during the passage to New York, had started them, and had caused
the leakage complained of before and during its transportation,
and that the leakage had not been caused by any neglect or
want of care of them, either in shipping the lard at New Orleans, or on the passage thence to New York, or in stowing it
in the ship, or in the discharge of it in New York. There is

SUPREMI

COURT.

Nelson et al. vs. Woodruff et al.

much testimony in the record in respect to the effect of beat
and barreling of lard in a liquid state, in producing more than
usual leakage; but it was urged in the argument that such
proofs were inapplicable to this case; as the bills of lading affirmed that the lard, when shipped, was in good order and condition, and were conclusive against the allowance of any inquiry
being made, or to any other causes of loss of damage than
such as may have been caused by the dangers of the sea and
fire.
Such is not our view of the effect of the bills of lading -Ye
have now to consider.
We proceed to state what we believe to be the law, and will
then apply the evidence to it to determine if this case is not
within it.
We think thatthe law is more accurately and compendiously
given by Chief Justice Shaw, than we have met with it elsewhere. in the case of Hastings vs. Pepper, (11 Pickering, 43,)
that learned judge says: "It may be taken to be perfectly
well established, that the signing of a bill of lading, acknowledging to have received the goods in question in good order
and well conditioned, is primafacie evidence that, as to all circumstances which were open to inspection and visible, the
goods were in good order; but it/does not preclude the carrier
from showing, in case of loss or damage, that the loss proceeded from some cause which existed, but *as not apparent, when
he received the goods, and which, if shown satisfactorily, will
discharge the carrier from liability. But in case of such loss or
damage the presumption of law is, that it was occasioned by the
act or default of the carrier, and, of course, the burden of proof
is upon him to show that it arose from a cause existing before
his receipt of the goods for carriage, and for which he is not
responsible." The same has been decided by this court in two
cases as to the burden of proof, where the goods shipped were
said'to have been impaired in quality by the dampness of the
vessel during passage to her port of delivery. Clark vs. Barnwell, (12 Howard, 272;) Rich vs. Lambert, (12 Howard, 347.)
The rule having been given, our inquiry now will be, whether
or not the owners of the Maid of Orleans have brought them-

DEOEMIBER TERM, 1861.

161

Nelgon et al. vs. Woodrumf et al.

selves Izithin its operation, so .as to be exempted from all liability for the loss of the lard, by having proved satisfactorily
that it had been occasioned by causes existing in the lard, but
not apparent when it was shipped, to the extent of the injury
which those causes would produce upon the barrels and tierces
which contained it; or, in other words, that the causes of the
loss were incident to lard when operated upon by a heated
temperature of the sun acting directly upon it, or when it shall
be stored, and an excessive natural temperature has occasioned
its liquefaction. It is alleged that the loss of this shipment
was sixty thousand pounds less that the quantity shipped. It
must be admitted to be too large for it to be brought under the
rule which exempts the carrier from liability for the ordinary
evaporation of liquids, or for leakage from casks, occurring in
the course of transportation. The implied obligation of the
carrier does not extend to such cases, any more than it does
to a case when the liquid being carried, if it shall be conveyed
with.care, is entirely lost from its intrinsic acidity and fermentation, and bursting the vessel which contains it; as it'was adjudged that the carrier was not liable when a pipe of wine
during its fermentation burst and was lost, it being proved
that at the time it was being carried carefully in a waggon
commonly used for such a purpose. Barravs. Adams, (Bull.
N. P., 69.)
We do not know where an adjudged case can be found illustrating more fully the exemption of a carrier from responsibility for loss or leakage from the peculiar and intrinsic qualities of an article, and the inquiries which may be made upon
the trial in respect to them, and into the causes of a loss from
effervescence and leakage, and we may say for its discriminatingrulings, than that of Warden vs. Greer, (in 6 Watt's Penn.
Rep., 424.) Mr. Angel has made all of us familiar with it in
his Treatise on the Law of Carriers, ch. 6, 215. The action
was brought against the owners of a steamer on account of
loss on a cargo of two hundred barrels of molasses, which was
affirmed in the bill of lading had been received in good order
and well conditioned. Witnesses were" examined as to the
trade in that article on the western waters; the nature of moVOL. I.

11

62

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson et al. vs. Woodruff et al.

lasses and the trade in it; as to its fermentation in warm
weather; the effect upon it by heat in its removal and carriage
in a dray; also as to the means usually taken to prevent loss
of it, and injury to the barrels from the expansive force of fermation; and as to the loss of it from those means and causes
on a passage from N{ew Orleans to Pittsburgh; and as to the
loss by leakage or warm weather, according to the condition
of the barrels in wbich it might be shipped. It was determined
in that case that the defendants were not answerable for loss
occasioned by the peculiar nature of the article carried at that
season of the year, nor for leakage arising from secret defects
in the casks, which existed, but were not apparent, when they
were received on board of the steamer.
Nor is a carrier responsible for diminution or leakage of
liquids from barrels in the course of transportation, though
they are such as are commonly used for thatpurpose, if it shall
be satisfactorily proved that the barrels had become disqualified from containing their contents by causes connected with
the natdre and condition of the article, which the carrier could
not control.
Having stated the law as we think it to be, that a bill of
lading for articles shipped, affirmed to be in good order and
condition, is but prima facie evidence of that declaration, and
does not preclude the carrier from showing that the loss proceeded from causes which existed, but were not apparent, we
will now examine the testimony, to determine if such was not
the fact in this case.
The lard was taken from the warehouse, to be put on board
of the ship, in a liquid state, in the month of July, during
hotter weather-much hotter, all the witnesses say-than is
usually felt in N~ew Orleans at that time. This was known to
the shippers, to their agent, who made the freight by contract,
and to the captain of the Maid of Orleans. They also knew
that the lard was in such barrels and tierces commonly used
for the shipment of lard.. All the barrels and tierces were put
on board of the ship, according to contract, as soon as it could
be done, after they were carted to the levee where the ship
was, except a few barrels, not more than 20 barrels, which

DEGEMBER TERM, 1861.

168

Neison et al. vs. Woodruff et al.

needed cooperage, and they were left on the levee from Saturday evening until Monday morning.
There is no proof of leakage or loss from them by that exposure, than there would have been if those barrels had been
put on board of the ship in the bad condition in which they
were sent to the levee. Dix, who made the freight engagement
in behalf of the shippers, says it was expressly agreed that the
lard should be taken on board of the ship as soon as the same
was sent to the vessel, to avoid exposure to the sun; and he
testifies that the casks .containing it were in good order when
they were delivered; but anticipating that some of them might
not lie, a cooper was sent, for the purpose of packing such of
them as might not be in good shipping condition; and the witness Shinkle, the stevedore employed to load the ship, says the
lard was promptly taken on board as soon as it was taken
from the drays, but that there were about fifteen or twenty
barrels leaking, which he caused to be rolled aside, and he put
them under tarpaulins, to be coopered, and, as soon as they
were coopered by the shipper's employees, it was taken. This
is the lard, as we learn from another witness, which had been
on the levee from Saturday night until Monday morning.
Besides, from answers of Mr. Dix to the cross-interrogatories
put to him, we learn that he knew nothing of the good order
and condition of the casks of lard, as to its cooperage, when
they were carried to the levee to be received for shipment, except from the report of those who had done the work. Under
such circumstances, the casks put aside on the levee for
cooperage, before they could be shipped, on account of their
leaking, were not received by the stevedore, to be put on board,
until they were put in a fit condition to be shipped. Until
that was done, they were at the shipper's risk. We cannot,
therefore, allow the fact of the exposure of these twenty barrels to charge the ship with any loss, or to lessin the weight
of the testimony that, in receiving and putting the casks into
the vessel, it had been done in conformity, as to time, with
the engagement made with the agent of the shippers.
The proof is ample, that.it was put on board with care, and
in the manner and with all the appliances for doing so most

164

SUPREiME COURT.
Nel.son e al. vs. Woodruffet aL

readily. It is in proof, also, that the stowage on the ship was
good, both as to position and as to its support and steadiness,
by dunnage and cantling, and that there had been no disarrangement of the casks, either by storm or rough seas, on the
passageof the ship to New York,:although she did encounter
some heavy weather. Nevertheless, upon the discharge of the
lard in New York, the barrels and tierces were found to be in
a worse condition, and leaking more, than had ever been seen
by either of the witnesses, whose habit and business had made
them familiar with such shipments. It appears that the bar.
rels containing the lard were of the same materials, and
coopered with hoop-poles, as barrels for such a purpose are
usually made.
When the contents of such barrels are solidified, the leakage
will be small; when liquefied, larger. All of the witnesses, who
know how such barrels are coopered, say so, particularly as to
lard in a liquid state, and as to its effect upon the staves and
hoops of such barrels when acted upon by the heat or rays of
the sun. They know it from observation and experience;
science confirms it from the composition of tb article. This
lard was of a secondary kind, or, as the witness Magrath says,
it was a fair lard-not pure at all, but a good average lot, not a
first-rate article. The differences in the qualities of lard may
arise from a deficiency of oxigen, or from the inferior quality
of the fat of the animal from which it is tried, and not unfrequently from a careless and insufficient melting and expression
of the best of the animal fat from its membranous parts. Oils,
whether animal or vegetable, are either solid or liquid, and,
when in the first condition, are frequently termed fats. These
fats are more abundant in the animal than in the vegetable
kingdom. But whether liquid or solid, they usually consist
of three substances, two of which (the stearine-suit and the
margarine-pearl) are 'solid, and the other (elane or oleine) is
liquid at ordinary temperatures. They are all from 60 to 90
lighter than water, and their liquid or solid condition depends
upon the proportion in which their component parts are mixed.
Thus, in the fats, the oleine exists in small quantities, and in
the liquid oils it is the chief constituent. A certain degree of

DECEMBER TERM, 18ti.

165

Neson et al. vs. Woodruf et al.

heat is necessary to the mixture, for at low temperatures there
is a tendencyto separation; the stearine and margarine are precipitated or solidified, and if pressed, can be entirely freed
from the oleine. The stearine from the'lard of swine is easily
separable from the oleine, and it is used in the manufacture of
candles. The liquid stearine, known in commerce as lard-oil,
is used for the finer parts of machinery; but all of the animal
fats-such as those from the hog, the ox, the sheep, and horsehave not a like consistency or proportion of stearine in them;
when deficient in either, or comparatively small, and tried into
lard, they have not that tendency at low temperatures to precipitate and solidify as the stearine and margarine of the fat
of the hog has; and being extremely penetrating from liquidity,
there has always been a greater loss from evaporation and
leakage from the barrels in which they are ordinarily put for
transp6rtation than there would be from hogs' lard under
the same temperature; in other words, hogs' lard will solidify
at a temperature at which those animal fats will not, and, from
their liquidity, they escape from the barrels containing them
in larger quantity; and that fact has been remarkably verified
by the retnrns of English commerce with Buenos Ayres and
Monte Video, in the importation from them of what is known
there as horse or mare's grease, tried from the fat of the horse.
From its liquidity, the ordinary barrels for the transportation of tallow and grease were found to be insufficient, as the
casks were frequently half empty on their arrival. The commerce in it was checked for some years, and not resumed until
the shippers put it into square boxes, lined with tin, and the
article is now carried without loss. And here we will remark,
that a distinguished gentleman, thoroughly acquainted with
the commerce of our country and its productions, and with
its great lard production from the fat of the hog, has made a
calculation of the deterioration of the article and the loss of
it by leakage from the barrels and casks in which it is now
shipped, and his result is, if we would change it for square
boxes, lined with tin, that the cost of them would be a saving
of the loss now sustained by barrelling it.
We have now shown that the cause of the leakage of lard is

SUPREME COURT.
Nelson et al. vs. Woodruff e a.

its liquefaction under temperatures higher than those at which
it will solidify when not deficient in stearine. One legal consequence from that fact is, that shippers of that article should
be considered as doing so very much as to leakage at their
own risk when it is in a liquid state, however that may have
been caused, whether from fire or the heat of the sun, and
knowing, too, that it was to be carried by'sea at a time from
places where there was the higher ranges of heat, through latitudes where the heat would not be less, until the ship had
made more than three-fourths of her passage. Such was the
case in this instance. -When the lard was shipped, the thermometer had indicated for several days, and continued until
the ship sailed, a heat of 970; the ship itself had become heated
by it. Her passage was made in the heat of the Gulf Stream
until she made the capes of the Delaware, and the witnesses
describe the heat of the hold as unendurable upon her arrival
in New York.
We have still to show what *ere the effects of the liquid
lard upon the barrels in which it was, and that we shall do
briefly by the testimony of several witnesses, and from what
we all know to be the additional pressure of an article upon a
barrel when liquefied by heat. The pressure from liquid lard
is an expansion of its component constituents by heat into a
larger bulk than it occupies when solidified, and its elastic
pressure distends or swells the barrel which contains it, until
the hoops which bind it are slackened, and its staves are
started; just as it would be in a barrel containing any other
fluid expanded by heat or fermentation. The consequences
must be a diminution of the liquid by an increased leakage
and evaporation. NVow, it so happens that the scientific explanation of the loss of the lard in this instance is verified by
the experience of the libellants' and respondents' witnesses.
Benzell, a cooper of forty years' experience in New York, in
coopering casks of lard from New Orleans to New York, and
who coopered this'cargo upon its arrival, says the casks were
of a good quality, except being slack-that is, hoops started;
hoops were loose upon the casks; does not think there is any
quality in lard to injure casks, except it will, when liquid, tend

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
Nelson et al. -vs. T4odruffet al.

to shrink them; it requires a great deal of care in such a case;
pressure increases the difficulty from heat, conduces to press
upon the joints, and produces leakage; these casks were fully
wooden-bound, but saw them leaking at bilge and at head;
coopered four hundred of them. Ward, the city weigher, and
who weighed several hundred casks of this shipment, says that
they leaked largely; leakage was from loose hoops. Dibble,
another weigher of twelve years' experience in the article of
lard, says the lard was in a liquid state, like oil. Wright, who
was present all the time when the ship was discharging, gives
an account of the stowing of the shipment; says the packages
or barrels were slack.

Samuel Candler, marine surveyor, sur-

veyed the cargo in August, 1854; made seven surveys on cargo
and one on hatch; saw the lard when on board of the ship;
says it was stowed in the after lower hold in four or five tiers
on bilge, and cantling in ordinary way and best; bilge and
bilge stowing not so well; went below; it was very hot there;
barrels looked fair, but slack; the staves were shrunk; looked
all alike; top casks leaked as well as those on the bottom tier;
attributes the great loss to great heat and shrinking of the
barrels; has surveyed a great many ships laden with lard in
hot weather; this cargo could not have been stowed better;
recollects more of this cargo because there was so much leakage; nothing stood on the casks, or on the top tier of them,
as is afterwards explained; surveyed ship; she had the appearance of having encountered bad weather. Francis J.
Gerean, who has been accustomed for thirty years with stowing cargoes, says: I coopered this cargo for libellants, Woodruff & Henning; when the cargo was discharging, two coopers l
under his direction, one at gangway on deck, the other in the
hold of the ship; he saw the lard in the hold before delivered;
the hoops were very loose, and the barrels were leaking from
sides and heads; intensely hot below; considerably hotter
than on deck; leakage from shrinking of packages; the lard
was liquid; that tends to shrink; staves and hoops become
loose; only chime hoops were nailed; barrels were well stowed;
does not think it possible to stow better; ground tier wu
damaged, as well as he judged; bilge of barrels did not leak;

SUPREME COURT.
.Zeson et al. vs. MToodruff et al.

no barrel rested on a single barrel, but on others. Fisher, a
large dealer in lard, grease, and tallow, and who has received
them at all temperatures of weather, says lard brought in vessels in hot weather will naturally leak ten pounds out of a
package; lard of reasonable quality, in good packages, will
leak about the same as oil; thinks putting liquid lard into
barrels will not produce leakage as much as pressure of the
barrels upon each other, but stores lard in cellar three to five
tiers. Several other witnesses in New Orleans concur in
stating that it was very hot weather when the lard was shipped,
and that when shipped it was in a liquid state. Others, uncontradicted, testify that it was liquid when the vessel arrived
in Noew York.
There is no testimony in the case impeaching the skill and
proper management of the ship on the passage to New York,
or in the delivery of the lard there, or that there was any part
of her cargo of a nature to increase the heat of the ship, or to
liquefy the lard, or to alter or shrink the barrels, though the
ship's heat, exposed as she had been to the rays of the sun in
New Orleans, was higher than that temperature at which lard
will solidify; and it consequently continued liquid, from the
time it was received on board until its delivery in New York,
as the ship, on her way to it, was never in a temperature low
enough to solidify it.
All the witnesses who were examined in respect to the
shrunken and slackened condition of the barrels when they
were discharged in New York agree. Two or three of them
say they were in a worse condition than they had ever seen or
handled, and attribute the loss to the agency of the melted
lard upon the barrels.
The result of our examination of these cases is, that though
the owners of the. Maid of Orleans could not controvert the
affirmance in these bills of lading, that the lard of the shippers
had been received on board of their ship in good order and
condition, that they have made out, by sufficient and satisfactory proofs, that the leakage and diminution of the lard was
owing to existing but not apparent causes, in the condition of
the lard, acting upon the barrels in which it was, which are not

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

169

Nelson el al. vs. Woodruff et al.

within the risks guaranteed against to the shippers by the bill
of lading. In conclusion, that the signing of a bill of lading,
acknowledging'that merchandise had been received in good
order and condition, is prima fade evidence that, as to all circumstances which were open to inspection and visible, the
goods were in good order; but it does not preclude the carrier
from showing that the loss proceeded from some cause which
existed, but was not apparent when he received the goods, and
which, if shown satisfactorily, will discharge the carrier from
liability. In case of such a loss or damage, the presumption
of law is, that it was occasioned by the act or default of the
carrier; and, of course, the burden of proof is upon him to
show that it arose from a cause existing before his receipt of
the goods for carriage, and for which he is not responsible.
We accordingly, with this opinion, affirm the decree of the
District and Circuit Courts, in all particulars, dismissing the
libel of Juo. 0. Woodruff and Robert M. Henning, and also
affirm the decree of the Circuit Court, with costs, to the libellants and appellees, Nelson, Dennison et al., in all things expressed in the same.
We have not considered the point made in the argument,
deeming it to be unnecessary, relating to James E. Woodruff
& Co. having made advances, in a large sum of money, upon
the faith of the bill of lading, as they were not made with any
intention of acquiring property in or ownership of the lard.
We also concur entirely with the view taken by our brother
Betts, of the District Court, upon the objections made to the
admission of the deposition of Capt. Dennis, taken de bene esse
by the libellants.
Decrees of the Circuit Court affirmed.

