SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. -hreleil h.

of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company is, therefore,
a distinct and separate corporate body in Indiana from the
corporate body of the same name in Ohio, and they cannot be
joined in a suit as one and the same plaintiff, nor maintain a
suit in that character against a citizen of Ohio or Indiana in a
Circuit Court of the United States.
These questions, however, haite been so fully examined in
the cases above referred to, that further discussion can hardly
be necessary in deciding the case before us. And we shall
certify to the Circuit Court, that it has no jurisdiction of the
case on the facts presented by the pleadings.

THE UNITED

STATES

vs. ROBERT B. KELEIGH.

1. A paper purporting to be a grant of land in California first produced
from the custody of a claimant after the war, and unsustained by any
record evidence, will not be held valid by this court.
2. Evidence of the destruction of archives during the war does not avail
the holder of such a naked grant unless he can show where and
how the specific papers necessary to complete his title were lost or
destroyed.
3. The court again affirms the doctrine that the testimony of Mexican officials cannot be received to supply or contradict the public records.
4. The theory of claimants has been that the want of archive evidence
should be excused on the ground that many of the records were lost
or destroyed; but the records of the Mexican Government in California being found in tolerable preservation, and the most enormous frauds having been attempted on the assumption that this
theory would account for their non-production, the court has been
compelled to reject it as altogether fabulous.
5. A grant not recorded, and for which no espediente is found, and which
is not among the forty-five sent in to the Departmental Assembly
and confirned on the 8th of June, 1846, cannot be believed genuine
on the testimony of a Mexican Secretary, who swears that he signed
and delivered it.

The appellee in this case claimed under the title of Jose
Castro, which was rejected by the Supreme Court at Decem.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
United States vs. .releigh.

ber term, 1860, (24 How., 347.) Neleigh and one McKenzie
purchased from Castro in 1849 six of the eleven leagues covered by his title, "to be selected whenever the same shall be
located by the proper authority." McKenzie died soon after
the purchase, and INeleigh, by a conveyance from his widow,
under a power in his will, became possessed of his interest in
the land. He presented his petition to the Land Commission
in September, 1852, asking a confirmation of title to his six
leagues, and in March, 1853, Castro petitioned in his own
name for a confirmation of the remaining five. The reasons
for the rejection of Castro's title, which reached the Supreme
Court first, are set forth very fully in the opinion of the court
delivered in that case by Mr. Ch. J. Taney. Neleigh's claim,
after an adverse judgment in the Land Commission, was confirmed by the District Court in October, 1859. From this
decree the United States appealed.
No new title-papers were offered. The claim rested in this
case, as in that of Castro, upon the naked grant produced from
the custody of the claimant. But much additional parol testimony was taken, by which it was sought to distinguish the
new case from the old. Four new witnesses, including Pico
and Moreno, whose signatures were appeuded to the grant,
were called to prove its genuineness. Some additional evi.
dence of occupation was offered, and the testimony of Col.
Fremout introduced to show that he had lost a portion of the
archives in the mountains of San Juan-among them papers
relating to a title to Gen. Castro. A witness was called to
show that there was but one Gen. Castro in California in 1846,
thereby connecting the lost papers with the title of the present
claimant. On the part of the United States no evidence was
added to that offered in the case of Jose' Castro.
Mr. Shunk, of Pennsylvania, for the United States. There
is no espediente, note, or other record of this grant in the Mexican archives, and the case rests upon a naked paper produced
from the pocket of the claimant in 1849. This objection is
fatal. But there is positive historic evidence besides, which
proves the paper offered as a title to be fraudulent and ante-

300

SUPREME COURJT.
United States vs. Neleigh.

dated. It claims to have issued on the 4th of April, 1846. It
is a historic fact, that at that date Pio Pico and Jos6 Castro
were at open war. The journals of the Departmental Assembly show that they were. Moreno in his testimony in this
very case admits the fact, and adds to it the statement that in
the spring of 1846 Pico set out with an armed force to drive
Castro from the country. Castro asserts in his deposition that
during the administration of Pico he recognised no power in
California superior to his own, save that of the Supreme Government. He testified his contempt for Pico by seizing the
custom-house at Monterey, and withholding from him the
public revenues. Yet we are asked to believe that Pico made
a grant to this vexatious rebel of eleven square leagues of land
just on the eve of a military expedition intended to drive him
beyond the bounds of the Department. Such a grant at such
a time, considering the angry relations of the parties, is simply
incredible.
But the paper produced as a title is fraudulent on its face.
Pico styles himself, at its commencement, " Constitutional
Governor of the Department of the Californias." He bore
no such title at the date of this grant, nor did he lay claim
to it. The journals of the Assembly show that he did not
receive his appointment as Constitutional Governor until
the 15th of April, 1846, and was not inaugurated until the
18th. The first grant made by him, in which he assumed
his new title, was that to Pedro Sansevaine, dated April 21st,
1846. In every title issued between the time that he became
Governor by virtue of his position as First Vocal of the Assembly in February, 1845, and the date of his inauguration as
Constitutional Governor in April, 1846, he styles himself
"First Vocal of the Departmental Assembly and Governor ad
interim of the Department of the Californias." Castro's grant
is the only exception to this rule. To accept it as genuine we
must believe that Pico, without any conceivable reason, and
in this solitary instance, assumed a title to which lie had no
claim, and recited an appointment which he had not received.
But it is easy to conceive, if we adopt the theory that this is an
ante-dated paper, that Pico, years after the conquest, in concoct-

DEOEMBER TERM, 1861.

301

United States vs. Meleigh.

ing an ante-dated grant, should forget which of his two titles he
was in the habit of using at the time of the false date, and
stumble on the wrong one. We have his own word for it in
this case, that he had for'gotten when he became Constitutional
Governor. We have, besides this, the admission of Moreno,
that he did not sign the grant until May, although it pretends
to have issued in April. It is, therefore, a paper entirely unsupported by archive evidence, contradicted by history and the
public records, fraudulent on its face, and ante-dated by the
admission of the officers who made it.
The only occupation proved in this case is a military occupation in 1844, two years before the date of the pretended
grant, and which lasted but a few months, and a settlement,
made in 1849, after the discovery of gold had made the land a
tempting prize for speculation and fraud.
There is nothing to distinguish lNfeleigh's case from that of
Jose Castro, except that the fraud only suspected" by the court
in the one case is made absolutely plain in the other.
Ar. Reverdy Johnson, of Maryland, and Mr. Gillet, of Washiington, for the appellee. The absence of the espediente and
other record evidence in this case is accounted for by the testimony of Colonel Fremont. Papers relating to a title to General Castro were lost among the mountains. We cannot be
expected to produce records the loss of which we have plainly
and dire.ctly proved. Moreover, the grant recites that all the
.ecessarysteps required by law as preliminaries to a grant have
been taken. Recitals in a grant by a public officer are prima
facie evidence of the fact recited when they relate to the subjectmatter of the grant. Fremont's Case, (17 How., 558;) Reading's
Case, (18 How., pp. 8, 9;) Peralta'sCase, (19 How., 343;) Doe
vs. Wilson, (23 How., 457.) The recording of titles granted
being the duty of the officer after the grant was made, if omitted
by him cannot defeat the title of the grantee, nor create a suspicion against it. If the neglect of the Governor to remit the
papers of a grantee to the Assembly for confirmation could not
defeat or affect the rights of a grantee, as has been held by this
court, Reading's Case, (18 How., p. 7,) certainly a similar neglect

802,

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Neleig&t

to record or preserve papers could not defeat or affect him.
When a gr'ant is once made, it can only be defeated by the act
or omission of the grantee, and no default of a public officer can
change his rights or subject them to a doubt. The grantee
was entitled to receive the grant and retain it, and this is evidence in favor of his title until overthrown by proof by those
questioning it. The grant itself is not secondary but original
evidence, and the best within the power of the party to produce. It has always been held that the production and proof
of what purported to be an original grant made by an authorized official was sufficient, and no additional record evidence
from the archives was held to be necessary, but whoever sought
to defeat the effect of this primafaeie evidence must do so by
competent legal proof. -oreover, this case conforms to the
propositions laid down in Castro's Case, (24 How., 347,) in relation to the introduction of secondary evidence. The record
shows that at'a former time there was a grant recorded in the
usual manner in the Secretary's office; that some of the books
and papers have been lost and destroyed; that there was actual
possession within reasonable time, and a survey by the owner,
and that this actual possession was as early as Fremont's, was
delayed for the same reason, and the want of a plat and judicial action in making a survey excused in the same way. The
case differs widely from that of Castro both in the amount of
the testimony and the matters to which it relates. The court
cannot reject this claim without repudiating a long line of decisions which have come to be regarded as the law of the land.
Mr. Black, of Pennsylvania, in reply. The title, properly
so called, and the written documents connected with it, are in
precisely the same condition now that they were in when this
court examined them before in the case of The United States vs.
Castro. It is a naked grant, without an espediente found among
the archives, and without record evidence of any kind to show
that it ever was issued or even applied for. This court has decided in certainly not less than twenty-five cases that such a
title cannot have its approval. With the exception of the one
judge whose commission is dated during the present term, every

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

303

United States vs. Neldgh.

brethren
member of the court has cbmmitted himself and his
in his own language against the confirmation of such claims.
If the ingenious arguments of the claimant's counsel, that recitals are evidence, that records are lost, that grantees must
not be affected by the omissions of public officers, were new,
we might reply to them at length, but they have been made
and answered and overruled a score of times already, and the
process need not be repeated again.
The decision in Castro's case is conclusive on the court as a
judicial precedent from which there can be no departure with
safety. It is also technically binding as a determination of the
same question between the same parties or their privies.
But, passing that, what is the value of the additional evidence found upon this record? Does Moreno add anything
even to the moral strength of the case? He is notoriously
unworthy of belief. Pico's testimony is on the face of it false.
Colonel Fremont is, of course, incapable of making a wilful
misstatement; but what does he say? That he lost papers in
the mountains, and one of them, he thinks, had reference to a
title of General Castro's. But whether it was a title for eleven
leagues or one league, for land on the San Joaquin or the Sacramento, in Upper or in Lower California, he does not pretend
to know; nor does he say whether the paper he saw was a petition, an informe, or a grant; whether it was signed by Figueroa,
by Alvarado, Micheltoreno, or Pico, or by anybody at all. It
is preposterous to make a title out of such evidence as this,
even if parol evidence were, under any circumstances, admissible.
But there are three facts in this case which were not shown
to the court by the record in Castro's case, and which do prove
most incontestably that the grant is a mere fabrication. These
facts are: 1. That at the pretended date of the grant, Castro
was in rebellion against the authority of Pico. 2. That it is
attested by a person, as Secretary, who at that time was not
Secretary. 3. That it purports to be made by Pico as Constitutional Governor at a time when he had not assumed the duties
or the title of that office.
Each one of. these facts considered separately would make

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Neleigh.

it extremely improbable that a grant was made to Castro on
the 4th of April, 1846. Men in office do not bestow such favors or any favors at all upon their enemies and the enemies of"
the Government they represent. Pico and Castro were not then
in communication. No petitions passed between them. Castro
refused to acknowledge Pico as Governor, and he was known
to Pico only as 4n insolent disturber of the public peace, and
a robber of the public money. They addressed one another
only in the language which could be uttered from the mouths
of their muskets. To find a paper signed or countersigned by
an officer who, upon investigation, appears not to have been
in office at the time, would anywhere be regarded as about
the strongest evidence of forgery that could be produced.
When you see that the Governor who makes the grant is
described as holding an office which he did not hold at the
time, and speaking in a style totally different from that used
in all cotemporaneods documents, you are forced to the conclusion that the paper was not made when it bears date.
But it is a rule of circumstantial evidence, which the good
sense of every reasonable mlan approves, that the force of independent criminating facts does not depend so much on their
weight as on their number. If you have two, consider them
separately, and they may not weigh a feather; but unite them
together, and they press upon the accused with the weight of
a mill-stone. Two or three such facts as these, each independent of the other, could not exist by chance in the case of
an honest grant. In a charge of murder it is suspicious to find
the knife of the accused party lying near the body of the victim. It is demonstration if the purse of the deceased be found
in possession of the same person. If, in addition to this, the
party who owned the knife, and had the purse, was seen with
bloody hands running away from the place of the murder
about the time it was committed, who could-stand up to defend
him ?
The want of evidence in this case makes it bad enough for
the claimant-bad enough to insure the rejection of the claim.
But when you see that it is also demonstrated to be a fraud by
circumstantial evidence so irresistibly strong as that which ap-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
United States vs. Neleigh.

pears on this record, there is no room left for doubt, nor no
grounds for an argument.
Mr. Justice GRIER. Neleigh filed his claim before the
board of Land Commissioners on the 3d of September, 1852.
It was for six leagues of land in Mariposa county, being part
of eleven leagues said to have been granted to Lieut. Col. Jose
Castro by Pio Pico, late Governor, on the 4th of April, 1846.
The deed from Castro, dated 8th of June, 1849, purported
to convey to Bernard McKenzie and Robert Neleigh six of
the eleven leagues, "to be taken where the grantees might
select." McKenzie's interest was, afterwards, vested in his
co-tenant by a conveyance from his administratrix. The commissioners confirmed the claim. But as the grant to Castro
had never been surveyed or located, and, like that to Fremont,
was vague and uncertain as to its boundary, it might be loco.
ted on either or both sides of the San Joaquin river. The-r
decree, therefore, did not ascertain what land was confirme(,,
but ordered that it be "selected by the said petitioner from
the said eleven leagues when the same shall be located by the propir
authority." This decision of the board was affirmed by the
District Court in October, 1859.
Tn the meantime, Jose Castro, in March, 1853, filed his
claim for the eleven leagues, "for the benefit of himself and
those claiming uncler him." That case came before this court
at last term, and may be found reported in 24 Howard, 34T.
It was rejected by this court, for the reason there given, and
which need not be repeated. Nor need we inquire of what
use the affirmation of the decree of the District Court would
be to Neleigh of a right to select six leagues out of eleven,
which, by judgment of this court, never can be surveyed or
located. For the purposes of the present case, also, we will
assume, that as Neleigh was not a party on record in the former case, he is not concluded by the judgment given in it, and
inquire whether he has furnished any new evidence, which, if
it had been found in the record of the Castro case, would have
led us to a different conclusion. Now, it must be kept in remembrance that the grant to Castro was not rejected, because
VOL.

.

20

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. .Yeleigh.

it was not signed by the persons whose names are affixed to it.
It is a historical fact, and proved by satisfactory evidence, more
than once, that, after that country passed into the possession
of the United States, the late Governor was very liberal in
executing grants to any person who desired them, and for any
quantity of land. It was easy to prove his signatures, and
Pio Pico himself, when called as a witness, could never recollect anything about the date, which was the only material question in the inquiry as to its validity. Of the last ttvo secretaries who attested these grants, one has been fou'nd capable,
not only of writing false grants, but of supporting them by
his oath. Of the other, we have been compelled to say, that
he was following in the footsteps of his predecessor.
It. is well known that espedientes and records of the grants
made in Pico's time were carefully put away by him in boxes,
which came into the possession of Col. Fremont, and were delivered to the public officers. These espedientes are all found
safe among the records, but the "toma de razon," or short record of them, has disappeared. Hence, when a grant is produced for the first time from the pocket of the claimant, and
is attempted to be established by proof of the signatures of
the Governor and Secretary, the want of an espediente or
archive evidence is expected to be'excused by the proof that
some papers were lost and torn when they were carried away
on mules by Col. Fremont, or used "as cartridgepaper," according to Pio Pico's theory. The enormous frauds which have
been attempted to be perpetrated, depending on this theory of
the destruction of records, have compelled us to reject it altogether as fabulous. These archives have been collected, and
are found in a very tolerable state of preservation. Hence,
the propositions laid down in the Castro case, and others preceding it, were an absolute necessity to save the Government
from utter spoliation of its territory.
It would be superfluous to repeat the principles laid down in
the Castro -case. It is sufficient to say, that the additional testimony in this case does not relieve it from its deficiencies
there stated. The testimony of Colonel Fremont of having
seen some paper concerning a grant to Castro, does not prove

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
United States vs. Neieigh.
the existence of this grant, which was not the only property
Qlaimed by Castro in California. The testimony of the late
Governor adds nothing to the evidc uce. He, as usual, acknowledges the genuineness of his signature, which was not disputed;
but as to the important question, whether it was made before
or after his expulsion by the Americans, he is entirely silent.
He could not remember historical facts connected with his administration; that at the date of this grant he was at bitter
feud with Castro, who had seized upon the custom-house at
Monterey, and set the Governor at defiance, and that the Governor was preparing troops, at this time, to compel his submission. The declaration of the witness, thathe should nevertheless as soon make a grant to Castro as to any other, is no
doubt true, if it refers to the true date of the transaction, after
they had both been superseded and deposed by the Americans.
N'~or. does it add anything to the value of this testimony, that
the witness explains that, by want of recollection, he means his
unwillingness to state the truth.
Moreno, who is always a more willing witness, ani who
labors under no want of memory or imagination, is brought
to supply this want of record proof, and accounts for his signature to the grant being dated when he was not Secretary.
He swears that he signed it after its date, in the beginning of
May, but whether it was May, 1846, 1847, or' 1848, he does
not state directly, but leaves it to inference that he meant 1846.
But if we were in any doubt as to the credibility of the testimony of this witness, there are other facts established which
demonstrate, that if he had stated explicitly that he signed this
grant, and recorded it in May, 1846, the assertion would have
been untrue.
On the 4th of April, 1846, the date of this grant, it is a fact
not only that M\oreno was not Secretary, but that Pio Pico was
not Governor. He first presented his appointment as Governor,
to the Assembly, on the 15th of April, 1846, and was inaugurated on the 18th. The first grant made by him, in which he
is styled Governor, is that to Pedro Sansevaine, dated the 21st
of April. In all his previous grants he is styled "First Vocal
and Governor ad interim." This deed was evidently written

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. -releigh.

go long after, that this fact had escaped the recollection of the
parties signing it. In the beginning of May, 1846, it was becoming apparent to all concerned that the power of the Governor and the Assembly would soon pass away. Pio Pico,
therefore, prudently gathered up the grants of land which had
not been previously laid before the Departmental Assembly for
their approval. He accordingly, on the 3d of June, 1846, sent
in to them no less than forty-five espedientes. One of these
was made in 1839. The others wete all dated in 1845 and
1846; the last three on the 2d and 3d of May, 1846. Fortunately, we have the minutes of the Assembly, by which it
appears that these forty-five espedientes were reported and
confirmed on the 8th of June, 1846. This grant to Castro
does not appear among them, and is left to the uncertain testimony of Moreno to establish its existence; and we are asked
to presume that it alone was kept back from the Assembly,
and that while all the other genuine grants confirmed by them
are found among the archives in good order, this alone was
converted into "cartridge paper." All these presumptions
must be made on the faith of these witnesses, whose testimony
wt'e have heretofore declared could not be received to contradict or supply record evidence.
In the former case, this grant to Castro was rejected for the
hegative reason that there was not the evidence required to
prove it genuine. The testimony in the present case has
proved it positively spurious.
Let the decree of the District Court be reversed.

