DECEM3ER TERM, 1861.

195

Atagwire vs. j1ler et al.

tions this paper might be constrained to yield inder other circumstances. It is sufficient to say, that, by the previous decision of this court, the defendant was permitted to amend his
pleadings in order to prove two facts, both of which were
necessary to constitute a good defence. The testimony to support one of them, to say the best of it, is doubtful, and the
other is wholly without proof.
Decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.

MAGWIRE

vs.

TYLER ET AL.

1. Surveys under confirmations of Spanish titles in the Upper Louisiana
country are, in regard to their correctness, within the jurisdiction of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and that officer has

power to adjudge the question of accuracy preliminary to the issuing
of a patent.
2. The Secretary of the Interior has the power of supervision and appeal
in all matters reiating to the General Land Office, and that power is
co-extensive with the authority of the Commissioner to adjudge.
S. The Secretary, in the exercise of his supervisory powers, may lawfully
set aside a survey made under a confirmed Spanish grant, order
another to be made, and issue a patent upon it.
4. Where the construction of the acts of Congress, defining the powers
of the Secretary of the Interior, is drawn in question in a State
court, and the decision is against the title set up by maintaining the
validity of the Secretary's decision, this court has jurisdiction to
revise the case on writ of error.
This case came up on writ Qf error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Missouri. It was commenced in the St. Louis
Land Court, (equity side,) by petition and summons, agreeably
to the code of Missouri. The plaintiff, John Magwire, claimed
four arpents by four of land lying in the county of St. Louis,
of which the defendants, Mary L. Tyler and others, were wrongfully in possession. The petition prayed a decree for title in
them-for possession -- for an account of profits, and an injunction against waste. The defendants answered at length,

SUPREME COURT.
Nagwire vs. Tyler d al.

denying the material facts set forth in the petition, and asserting that they were rightfully in possession. The Land Court
heard the cause, found the facts specially, and made a decree
in favor of the defendants, dismissing the petition, which was
affirmed afterwards by the Supreme Court of the State, and
the plaintiff took this writ of error. What the facts in dispute
were, and how they were found by the court of original jurisdiction, will appear by reference to the opinion of Mr. Justice
Catron. The defendants in error moved to dismiss the writ
for want of jurisdiction, and the court heard the argument on
that motion, and upon the errors assigned by the plaintiff in
the judgment of the State court at the same time.
Mr. Ewing, of Ohio, for plaintiff in error. The two confirmations were connected in the same concession and included
in one survey: That survey was recognised by the United States
and acquiesced in by the parties for more than fifteen years.
It vested an inchoate legal title in both according to their respective interests. It never was appealed from. Though the
patent was irregular, yet, having issued, the legal title attends
it. Kissell vs. St. Louis, (18 How., 22;) Elliott vs. Pierson, (1
Pet., 341.) But it did not affect the equitable rights of parties
under the confirmation and survey. INo appeal lay to the
Secretary of the Interior. The Surveyor General is alone responsible for it, and he acts under no directions but those of
the law and the judgment of the commissioners who confirmed
the title. The survey of 1851, under which the patent issued,
was a gross violation of right; it was made under the order of
the Secretary, who had no authority against the expressed
opinion of all the officers who had authority. This court has
decided, and it is not denied, that the plaintiff cannot sustain
ejectment against the patent. West vs. Cochran, (17 How.,
416.) Wilcox vs. Jackson, (13 Pet., 517.) But the equity of
the plaintiff (and that is what he now claims) was complete by
the confirmation and survey.
This court has jurisdiction to review the State court in a
case like the present.
Brazeau claims an equitable title to a specific tract of land,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

197

Afagwure vs. Tyler et aZ.

described in his bill. He claims it under a statute of the
United States, and the acts of public officers under that statute; and the decision of the State court was against his title.
This gives jurisdiction; and it is quite immaterial whether it
was decided "upon a question of fact or law." Lytle vs. The
State of Arkansas, (22 How., 202, 203;) Chouteau vs. Eckhart, (2
How., 372;) Mobile vs. Eslava, (16 Pet., 234;) Martin vs. H7unter's Lessee, (1 Wh., 357-8-9;) Smith vs. The State of Maryland,
(6 Or., 280.)
1Jr. Hil, of Missouri, and 31r. Stanton, of Washington city,
for defendants, claimed that the legal merits of the case were
against the plaintiff on many grounds.
1. The confirmation to Brazeau was void, not being within
the act of Congress.
2. if not void, Brazeau's representatives are concluded by
the patent.
'3d. The patent of 1852 was conclusive and regular, being
founded on what was in fact a resurvey of Soulard's survey.
4. Brazeau's grant was unauthorized because it came from the
Lieutenant Governor, who had no power to make it; it was not
definitely located; there was no survey nor plat of it on record.
5. A court of equity, after this lapse of time, cannot change
the rights recognised heretofore, and especially where it will
disturb the possession of innocent purchasers after the lands
have greatly risen in value.
6. The plaintiff, who claims under Pierre Chouteau, is estopped by the boundary line established between Labeaume
and Chouteau in 1799.
7. This case is settled by the decision in West vs. Cochran, (17
How., 416.) The plaintiff has no right to go into equity and
there claim that his land shall be located where the legal title
cannot be located.
But this court has no jurisdiction. It must appear from
the record, either expressly or by necessary intendment, that
some question which this court has a right to re-examine has
been decided by the State court, otherwise the writ must be
dismissed. Jlfedbury vs. Ohio, (24 How., 414;) rowell vs. Ban-

SUPREME COURT.
.agwire vs. Djler et al.

dall, (10 Peters, 368;) ieKenney vs. Carroll, (12 Peters, 66;)
Ocean Insurance Company vs. Polly, (13 Peters, 157;) Coon's
Lessee vs. Gallaher,(15 Peters, 19;) Armstrong vs. Treasurer,&c.,
(16 Peters, 281;) Falton vs. McAfee, (16 Peters, 149;) Commercial Bank vs. Bucingham's -Executors, (5 Howard, 317;) Smith
vs. Hunter, (7 Howard, 788;) Lawler vs. Walker, (14 Howard,
149;) -Robertson vs. Coulter, (16 Howard, 107.)
Mr. Justice CATRO . In 1794, Joseph Brazeau had granted
to him, by the Lieutenant Governor of Upper Louisiana, a
tract of land, four arpents in front by twenty arpents deep,
which extended in a N. N. west course, from the foot of the
hill where stands the Grange de Terre, ascending to the vicinity of Stony creek, bounded on one side by the bank of the
Mississippi; on the opposite side by the public domain; and on
the southern side the tract was bounded by the concession to
the free mulattress Esther, made in 1793.
In 1798, Brazeau sold and conveyed to Labeaume part of his
concession. The deed includes four arpents, "to be taken
from the foot of the hill or mound commonly called the Grange
de Terre, by twenty arpents in depth, bounded by the Rocky
branch on the extremity opposite the said mound; reserving
to myself (says Brazeau's deed) four arpents of land, to be
taken at the foot of said mound, in the southern part of the
aforesaid tract; selling only sixteen arpents in depth to the said
Labeaume."
In 1799, Labeaume applied to the Governor, and got his tract
of 4 by 16 arpents enlarged, including the land conveyed to
him by Brazeau, extending north to the Rocky Branch, calling
for twenty arpents in depth. This enlarged tract the Governor
ordered Soulard to survey for Labeaume, and to put him into
possession; which the surveyor did, in April, 1799.
Labeaume applied to have his claim confirmed by the board
of commissioners, and, in 1810, it was confirmed for 856
arpents; and at the same time, acting on Brazeau's concession
of 1794, the board confirmed to him his 4 by 4 arpents, adjoining Labeaume's tract on the south.
The board ordered that Labeaume's concession should be

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
2lfagwire vs. Tyler et al.

surveyed, in conformity to the order of survey made by the
Governor; and that Brazeau's tract of sixteen
arpents "should be surveyed, agreeably to a reserve made in
a sale from Joseph Brazeau to Louis Labeaume." This survey
was to be made conformably to the reservation in the deed,
and that reservation was at the foot of the mound.
Patents were ordered to be issued to the parties respectively;
but, owing to litigation before the department of public lands
and in the courts of justice, between the parties claiming the
reservation, and the proper mode of surveying the tract, was
not settled till 1852, when the surveys were approved, and
patents issued to each of the parties, locating the southern
boundary of Brazeau's claim at the foot of the mound, and
the opposite line, adjoining the southern boundary of Labeaume, four arpents further north, at an old ditch. Brazeau's
representatives refused to accept the patent for the sixteen arpents, and caused it to be recalled at the General Land Office.
His claim, therefore, stands before the court as it existed in
1810, when the board of commissioners confirmed it as valid.
The assignees of Brazeau brought an action of ejectment,
to recover possession of 4 by 4 arpents above Labeaurne's
southern line, andIwithin his survey; but this court held, that
the power to survey and fix definite boundaries, and issue a
patent for Brazeau's tract, was a sovereign power, reserved to
the executive branch of the Government, and that a court of
justice bad no jurisdiction to locate the claim. West vs. Coehran,
(17 How.)
The unsuccessful party then filed his bill in a State Circuit
Court, and insists that equity can do what was declared could
not be done at law, on the assumption that the court only decided in the former case that Brazeau's incipient but equitable
title would not sustain an action of ejectment.
In the year 1817, "by authority of the United States and
under the direction of the Surveyor General for the district of
Illinois and Missouri," the tract of land confirmed to Brazeau
was surveyed by Joseph C. Brown, a deputy surveyor, conjointly with Labeaume's enlarged tract. The surveyor certifies that he had "surveyed for Louis Labeaume two tracts in

-Lieutenant

SUPREME COURT.
.Afagwire vs. Tl/ler et al.

one: the one confirmed in his own name for 356 arpents;
the other, under Joseph Brazeau, for four arpents;" together,
860 arpents-equal to 306j acres.
The courses and distances of the lines are given. At one
of the corners the call is for a stone at the mouth of an old
ditch, the lower corner of the survey on the river. The next
line runs westwardly with the ditch. This survey was returned
to the Surveyor General's office, and duly approved shortly
after it was made. It purported to include Brazeau's tract of
sixteen arpents, and, of course, it was located in the southeast
corner of the survey.
When this survey was presented to the recorder of land titles
to obtain a patent certificate, he refused to issue one, because
both tracts were included in one survey; whereas, the recorder
held that the confirmation certificates required separate surveys. Thus the matter stood till 1833, when Brown made
another survey of Labeaume's tract, maintaining the ditch
as the southern boundary, and throwing off on the west a
surplus to reduce the tract to the quantity confirmed to Labeaume.
The representatives of Brazeau claimed to own the tract of
four by four arpents north of the ditch, as indicated in Brown's
survey, of 1817, and a contest was carried on before the department of public lands as to the proper location of Brazeau's
claim, according to his confirmation, for nearly twenty years.
Finally, the Secretary of the Interior ordered. that the tracts
should be surveyed separately-set the surveys of Brown of
1817 and 1833 aside-and ordered that Brazeau's claim should
be surveyed south of the ditch and next to the mound, and
that Labeaume's tract should be located north of the ditch.
The representatives of Labeaume hold the land in the southeasterly corner of Brown's survey, and this is the land the bill
prays may be decreed to the complainant-first, on the assumption that the confirmation certificate locates it there;
and, secondly, that there was no authority in the Secretary of
the Interior Department to set the survey of 1817 aside.
survey of 1833 was merely a reformation of the
.abeaume's
survey of 1817, excluding Brazeau's four by four arpents.

DECEMBER TERM, -861.
Aagwire vs. Tyler et al.

In 1847 the matter as regarded these surveys was reported
by the Surveyor General to the General Land Office, where it
was held that Brazeau was entitled to his four arpents square
in the southeasterly part of Soulard's Spanish survey of 1799,
which embraced both Labeaume's and Brazeau's tracts. This
decision was overruled by Secretary Steuart in 1851, under
whose order a survey was made for Brazeau outside of Labeaume's survey, as made by Brown.
This decision we are called on, in effect, to overthrow, by
holding that Brazeau's land is covered by the patent to
Labeaume, and the legal title vested in his representatives.
And it is insisted that if it is, then a court of equity may decree that it shall, be conveyed by the legal owner to him having the better equity. And this raises the question whetherthe Secretary was authorized by law to reject the survey of
1817, order another, and overthrow Brazeau's claim of title.
that the General Land Office has, from its first establishment
in 1812, exercised control over surveys generally, is not open
to discussion at this day.
By the act of March 3, 1807, the board of commissioners
was required to deliver to each party whose claim was confirmed a certificate that he was entitled to a patent for the
tract of land designated. This certificate was to be presented
to the Surveyor General, who proceeded to have the survey
made and returned, with the certificate, to the recorder of
land titles, whose duty it was to issue a patent certificate;
which, being transmitted to the Secretary of the Treasury, entitled the party to a patent. Act of 1807, S. 6.
This duty of the Secretary of the Treasury, by the act of
1812, is transferred to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office.
The act of April 18, 1814, S. 1, requires that accurate surveys shall be made, according to the description in the certificate of confirmation, and proper returns shall be made io the
Commissioner of the certificate and survey, and all such other
evidence as may be required by the Commissioner.
These acts show that the surveys and proceedings must be,

SUPREME COURT.
.agwire

vs. Tykr et al.

in regard to their correctness, within the jurisdiction of the
Commissioner; and such has been the practice. Of necessity,
he must have power to adjudge the question of accuracy preliminary to the issue of a patent.
By the act of July 4, 1836, reorganizing the General Land
,Office, plenary powers are conferred on the Commissioner to
supervise all surveys of public lands, C" and also such as relate
to private claims of land and the issuing of patents."
By the act of March 3, 1849, the Interior Department was
established. The 3d section of the act vests the Secretary, in
matters relating to the General Land Office, including the
powers of supervision and appeal, with the same powers that
were formerly discharged by the Secretary of the Treasury.
The jurisdiction to revise on the appeal was necessarily coextensive with the powers to adjudge by the Commissioner.
*We are, therefore, of the opinion that the Secretary had authority to set aside Brown's survey of Labeaume's tract, order
another to be made, and to issue a patent to Labeaume, throwing off Brazeau's claim.
A preliminary motion was made to dismiss this cause for
want of jurisdiction, which was brought on with the final hearing.
The survey made by Brown in 1817 for Labeaume included
both the tracts confirmed to Labeaume and Brazeau. This survey was duly approved, and so continued for fifteen years. A
patent might have been issued on it, either singly to Labeaume
or jointly to the two owners, Brazeau's sixteen arpents being
granted to him in the southeast corner of the survey.
Standing on the original concession, Brazeau's tract had no
specific boundary, and attached to no land; but Brown's survey identified its locality and boundary, and vested a title to
land, subject to be sued for an-d recovered by the local laws
of Missouri, and the bill was filed to assert this title, on the
ground that the Secretary of the Interiof Department had no
authority to set the survey aside, divest Brazeau's title, and
locate the land elsewhere. The construction of the acts of
Congress, conferring power on the Secretary to do the acts

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

203

Afagwire vs. Dyler et-al.

complained of, were -prominently drawn in question, and the
decision below rejected the title set up by maintaining the
validity of the Secretary's deci6ion.
The case falls within the principle declared in Lytle's case,
22 How., 202. The finding of the State court, and the decree
founded on that finding, show that the question necessary to
give this court jurisdiction was raised and decided. Craig vs.
ifissouri, (4 Peters, 425-6.)
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. I think the court has not jurisdiction in this case. The only point in dispute appears to
be upon the true location of the land reserved by Brazeau in
his deed to Labeaume. And that question depends altogether
upon the description of it in the deed, and not upon thesurvey
made by the Surveyor General of the United States, nor upon
the judgment or decision of the Land Office. It is a judicial
question, belonging exclusively to a court and jury of the
State, and not embraced in any one of the provisions of the
25th section of the judiciary act of 1789, in which appellate
power over a judgment of a State court is conferred upon
this court. But as a majority of the court are of a contrary
opinion, and have taken jurisdiction, I concur in affirming the
judgment.
Mr. Justice GRIER. I concur with the Chief Justie.e.
.Decreeof the Supreme aourt of Missouri affirmed.

