SU-PREME COURT.
The Propeller Commerce.

THE PROPELLER COMMERcE-- Tranyortation Company, Claimant;

RFitzhugh et al., Libellants.
1 To bring a case of collision within the admiralty jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, it is not necessary to show that either of the vessels
was engaged in foreign commerce or commerce between the States.
2. The admiralty jurisdiction is not taken away by the fact that the collision or other tort was committed within the body of a county.
3. Locality is the test of jurisdiction. If the collision occurred on those
navigable waters which empty into the sea, or into the bays and
gulfs which form a part of the sea, the maritime courts have jurisdiction.

4. A'suit in rem for a marine tort may be prosecuted in any district
where the offending thing is found.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York.
This was a libel filed in the District Court by Henry Fitzhugh, De Witt C. Little, John Peck, and James Peck, against
the steam propeller Commerce, (claimed by the Commercial
Transportation Company as owners,) averring a collision on
the Hudson river with the libellants' lake boat, the Isabella, by
which the latter vessel was sunk, causing an injury to boat and
cerg, of $17,000. The cargo, it seems, did not belong to the
lilellants, but was in their custody as common carriers.
The allegations of the libel, the defence set uip in the answir, the facts of the case as they appeared in evidence, and
the points of law raised in the argument, are stated in so much
fuluess by Mr. Justice Clifford, that they need not be repeated
here.
The libel was dismissed by the District Court; but on appeal
to the Circuit Court, a decree was passed in favor of the libellants for $11,443 15, and thereupon the claimants appealed to
this court.

Mi -Benedict, of New York, for claimants.
M

Grant, of New York, for libellants.

DEOEIMIIER TERI, 1861.

575

The Propeller Commerce.

Mr. Justice CLIF FORD. This was a libel in admirdlty In
a cause of collision, civil and maritime, and the case come9
before the court on appeal from the decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New
York.
Recurring to the transcript, it will be seen that the libel
was in rem against the steam propeller "Commerce," and that
the suit was instituted by the appellees, as the owners of the
lake boat Isabella; but the record shows, that after the process
was issued, and the vessel was taken into custody, the appellants, on motion, had leave to appear, and having waived publication of notice and entered into stipulation, with sureties,
both for costs and value, the vessel was discharged by consent,
the stipulators agreeing, that in case of default or contumacy
of the claimants, execution might issue for the amount of the
stipulation against their' goods, chattels, and lands. No
change, however, was made in the form of the libel, and the
whole proceedings in the suit were as in rem against the vess;a. Reference will only be made to such portions of the
pleadings as seem'to be indispensable to a fall understanding
of the several questions presented for decision. Among other
things, the libellants alleged, that the Isabella left the port of
lew York on the nineteenth day of August, 1852, for the
port of Albany, fully laden with merchandise; that she, with
certain other boats and barges, was in tow of the steam-tug
Indiana during the voyage, and at the time the collision occurred; that the steam-tug was well manned, tackled, apparelled, and furnished, and in all respects competent for the
business in which she was engaged; and that the craft composing the tow had on board the proper complement of offi-'
cers and men for their protection and management. Two of
the barges were attached to the steam-tug, one on the larboard and the other on the starboard side; and to show that
there was no fault in the arrangement of the tow, they alleged
that the Isabella was securely attached to the larboard side of
another barge, and that both were towed astern of the steamtug, at the usual and proper distance, by means of a hawser;
and, in respect to the immediate circumstances of the colli-

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Commerce.

sion, they alleged that the Isabella, in the evening of the following day, while ascending the river, in tow of the steam-tug
as aforesaid, and when about ten or eleven miles below the
port of her destination, was met by the propeller, coming
down the river, and bound on a voyage from the port of Albany to the port of Philadelphia; and they aver, that at the
timeof such meeting, the steam-tug, with all the boats and
barges in tow of her, was on the eastern side of the channel,
and in the usual and proper place for such craft When so ascefiding the river; but that the propeller, after she had passed
the steam-tug in perfect safety, suddenly and improperly
sheered to the eastward, and, through the negligence of those
in charge of her, ran against the larboard bow of the Isabella,
stove the bow from the stem, broke all the lines by which she
was attached to the barge, and so damaged her that, in a few
minutes, she sunk in the river, with all her cargo on board.
As alleged in the libel, her cargo consisted of groceries and
other merchandise, together with a steam-engine; and the
libellants alleged, that the whole amount of the loss, including
the damage to the cargo, was seventeen thousand dollars.
When the libel was filed, the propeller wag in the port of N~ew
York, and, as the libellants alleged, within the jurisdiction of
the District Court. Accordingly, they prayed process, in due
form of law, as in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and it was issued and duly served upon the vessel. On
the other hand, the claimants denied the allegation that the
steam-tug was well manned and equipped, or that the boats
and barges in tow of her had a full complement of officers
and men for their protection and management, or that the tow
was properly made up, and especially that the Isabella was at
no greater distance astern of the steam-tug than was usual
and proper. They admitted, however, that the propeller
passed the steam-tug in safety, and met the Isabella at the
time alleged, but denied that the steam-tug, or the boats and
barges in tow of her, were on the eastern side of the channel,
or in a proper place for such craft when ascending the river.
Their theory was, that the lower barge, with the boat of the
libellants attached, was on the western side of the channel,

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

577

The Propeller Commerce.

and they accordifgly alleged that the tow was out of the usual
and proper place; and they expressly denied that the propeller, after passing the steam-tug, sheered at all, or so moved
towards the eastern side of the channel as to cause the collision. Witnesses were examined on both sides in the District
Court, and, after a full hearing, a decree was entered dismissing the libel, and the libellants appealed to the Circuit Court.
Additional testimony was taken on the appeal, and the Circuit
Court reversed the decree of the District Court, and entered
a decree in favor of the libellants. Whereupon the claimants
appealed to this court, and now seek to reverse the last named
decree.
It appears from the evidence that the steam-tug, when she
started from New York, had seven boats and barges in tow,
but the number, although she left one at Kingston, was in.
creased to ten in the early part of the trip. On arriving Et
Athens, the master, as he had been accustomed to do, rea' ..
ranged the tow, in order to make it narrower for the residu e
of the voyage. Briefly stated, the arrangement was as fo J.
lows: Two of the craft were lashed, as before, to the sides ( f
the steam-tug; but they had two others at their stern, whic h
were connected with them by lines put out from the stem (if
the boat in the rear, and attached to the stern of the bott
ahead. Four of the residue, arranged abreast and lashed together, were connected with the steam-tug by a hawser about
two hundred feet long, and the barge to which the boat of
the libellants was attached was some.,three or four hundred
feet astern of the whole, and was also connected with the
steam-tug by a hawser. With the tow-arranged in the manner described, the steam-tug proceeded slowly up the river,
and passed Mull island in perfect safety. Shortly after passing the island, the master of the steam-tug, who was standing
in the wheel-house, discovered two steamers coming down the
river, and as they were not far distant, he went aft to see to
the tow. They proved to be the propeller and the steamer
Oregon, and the former, in a few minutes, passed the steam-tug
some fifty or a hundred feet to the westward-so far to the west,
that a schooner under mainsail and foresail, and with her main.
VOL. i.

37

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Commerce.

boom out, was between the propeller and the steam-tug at the
time the former passed the latter, Seeing the schooner coming
up, the Oregon stopped until the schooner passed out of the
way, but the propeller proceeded on her course, without any
abatement of her speed, and after passing the steam-tug, and
the four boats arranged abreast, sheered to the eastward, and
struck the stem of the libellants' boat, and, as the witnesses
state, drove it into the cabin, and parted all the lines which
attached the boat to the barge. Some conflict exists in the
testimony as to the precise locality where the collision occurred; but the clear inference from the whole evidence is,
that it took place just after the barge, with the boat of the
libellants attached, passed the point of Mull island, and it is
conceded that the island is within the northern district of New
York, and within the body of one of the counties of that State.
Want of jurisdiction was not suggested, either in the District
or Circuit Courts; but it is now insisted that the case was not
cognizable in the District Court, for three reasons: First, because it did not appear that the propeller or the~boat of the
libellants was engaged in foreign commerce, or in commerce
between the States, and, therefore, was not a case cognizable
in the admiralty; second, because the collision occurred within the body of a county, and, therefore, was exclusively cognizable at common law; thirdly, because, assuming it to be a
case of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, still it was properly cognizable in the northern district of New York, and not
in the southern, where the decree was rendered.
1. But the first objection could not be sustained, even if it
were admitted, on the theory of fact assumed, that it was correct, for the plain reason that it is alleged in the libel, and not
denied in the answer, that the propeller was bound on a voyage from the port of Albany to the port of Philadelphia, and
one of the witnesses of' the claimants testified that she was
employed in her second trip, and that, notwithstanding the
collision, she completed her voyage.
Admiralty jurisdiction, however, was conferred upon the
,Government of the United States by the Constitution, and in
cases of tort it is wholly unaffected by the considerations sug-

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

579

The _Propf.ler Commerce.

gested in the proposition. Such certainly were the views expressed by this court in the case of the Genesee Chief, 12
How., 452, where the court say: "Nor can the jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States be made to depend on regulations of commerce. They are entirely distinct things, having
no necessary connection with one another, and are conferred
in the Constitution by separate and distinct grants." When
the District Courts were organized, they were authorized by
Congress to exercise exclusive original cognizance of all civil
causes of admiralty and maritime j.urisdiction, including all
seizures under laws of impost, navigation, or trade of the United
States, where the seizures are made on waters which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden, within
their respective districts, as well as upon the high seas: That
provision of the judiciary act remains in full force and unrestricted as applied to the navigable waters of the Hudson and
all the other navigable waters of the Atlantic coast which
empty into the sea, or into the bays and gulfs that form a part
of the sea. All such waters are, in truth, but arms of the sea,
and are as much within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States as the sea itself. It is not denied
that the admiralty has jurisdiction of torts committed on such
navigable waters, nor is it denied that the waters of the Hudson, where the collision in this case occurred, are within the
admiralty and maritim, jurisdiction of the United States; but
it is insisted that something more is wanting in order to bring
the case vithin the cognizance of the admiralty. Our reply
to that suggestion is, that locality, by all the authorities, is the
test, in cases of tort, by which to determine the question
whether the wrongful a6t is one of admiralty cognizance; and
if it appears, as in cases of collision, depredations upon property, illegal disposition of ships, or seizures for breaches of
reveLue laws, that it was committed o navigable waters, within
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States,
then the case is one properly cognizable in the admiralty. 1
Cur. Com., p. 33, Sec. 37.
2. It is assumed, in the second place, that the jurisdiction
must be denied, because it appears that the collision occurred

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Commerce.

on the Hudson river within the body of a county; but the objection presents a question that has long since been settled by
this court. It was first presented in the case of Waring et al.
vs. Clark, (5 How., 452,) where this court held that the question of jurisdiction was unaffected by the fact that the locality
of the collision was infra corpus comitatus, provided it occurred
in waters where the tide ebbed and flowed, which is a rule
sufficiently comprehensive to control this case. That decision,
however, preceded the case of the Genesee Chief, 12 How.,
443, where the same rule was declared to be applicable to the
lakes and the navigable waters connecting the same, although
not affected by the ebb and flow of the tide. Similar views
were also expressed by this court in the case of The Milagnolia,
(20 How., 298;) and in the case of The Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Co. vs. The Philadelphiaand Havre de Grace
Co., (23 How., 215,) it was emphatically said, that since thecase of Waring et al. vs. Clark, (5 How., 464,) the exception of
infra corpus comitatus is not allowed to prevail. Taken together,
these three decisions, we think, ought to be regarded as decisive
of the point under consideration, and may well excuse us from
any extended argument upon the subject.
3. But it is insisted that the case was not cognizable in the
District Court for the southern district of Nfew York. Judging
from the course of the argument, it would seem that the error
on this point arises from a misapplication of the established
rule, that jurisdiction in the admiralty, in cases of tort, depends
upon locality. Whether a wrongful act, committed upon the
person or property of another, was of a character to be denominated a marine tort, and, consequently, to be regarded as the
proper foundation of a suit cognizable in the admiralty, undoubtedly depends upon the locality where the wrongful act
was committed, as already explained. But marine torts are in
the nature of trespasses upon the person or upon personal
property, and they may be prosecuted in personara.in any district where the offending party resides, or in rem wherever the
offending thing is found to be within the jurisdiction of the
court issuing the process.
Process in rem is founded on a right in the thing, and the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

581

Tw Propeller Commerce.

object of the process is to obtain the thing itself, or a satisfaction out of it, for some claim resting on'a real or quasi proprietary right in it. Consequently, the court, through its process,
arrests the thing, and holds possession of it by its officers, as
the means of affording such satisfaction, and in contemplation
of law it is in the possession of the court itself. Bened't's Adm.,
p. 241, See. 439. Unless, therefore, the suit in rem can be prosecuted in the district where the property is found, it cannot
be prosecuted at all, which would defeat the right of the injured party to d very beneficial remedy. Libels in rem, in instance causes, civil or- maritime, says Mr. Greenleaf, shall state
the nature of the cause, as, for example, that it is a cause civil
and maritime, of contract, of tort or damage, of salvage, or
possession, or otherwise, as the case may be; and if the libel
is in rem, that the property is within the district, and if in personata, the names and place 'of residence of the parties. 3
Greenl. Ev., 401. It is plain that the suit in rem cannot be
maintained without service of process upon the property, and
we bold it may be prosecutid in any district where the property is found; and such undoubtedly must have been the opinion of this court in Nelson et al. vs. leland et al., (22 How., 48,)
which, indeed, is decisive of the point under consideratiopi.
See also Jlfonro vs. Almeida, (10 Wheat., 473.)
It is clear, therefore, on authority, that the third objection
to the jurisdiction cannot be sustained; and, after a careful
consideration of the evidence, we think the decision of the
Circuit Court was correct upon the merits. Considerable conflict exists in the evidence on the Point, whether the lower
barge, with the boat of the libellants attached, was or was not
on the eastern side of the channel when the collision occurred;
btit we think the weight of the evidence shows that the tow,
as well as the steam-tug, was east of the centre of the channel.
Full proof was exhibited that the steam-tug was as near the
eastern side as it was safe for her to go, and the proof of that
fact goes very far to sustain the entire theory of the libellants,
especially as all or nearly all the witnesses who were on the
several craft composing the tow concur in the statement that

SUPREME COURT.
Silliman vs. Hudson River Bridge Co.- Coleman vs. Same.

the propeller made a sheer to the eastward after she passed the
steam-tug, and the four boats arranged abreast.
Objections were also made to the computation of the damages, but none of them can be sustained.
One of the objections was, that the court erred in allowing
damages for the injury to the cargo as well as to the boat; but
the point has been so often ruled that the carrier, who is responsible for the safe custody and due transportation of the
goods, may recover in cases of this description, that we do not
think it necessary to do more than to express our concurrence
in the rule adopted by the Circuit Court.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with costs.

SILLIMAN vs. HUDSON Rivxit BRIDGE COMPANY.-COLEMAN VS.
SAME.
1. In a case where the judges of the Circuit Court have divided in
opinion upon several questions, one of them being whether the
court has jurisdiction, the question of jurisdiction must be determined before any opinion can be expressed on the others.
2. If the judges of this court, as well as the court below, are equally
divided on the question of jurisdiction, the case will be remitted for
such further action as may be required by law and the rules of court.
3: Where the record (of an equity case) goes down in this condition, it
is the established rule to dismiss the bill and leave the plaintiff to
his remedy by appeal.
4. Whether the evidence is sufficient to prove an averwent in the
plhadings, is a question of fact, and cannot, therefore, be brought
into this court upon a certificate of division.
Both these cases came up on certificates of the judges of the
Circuit Court that they were divided in opinion on certain
points raised at the trial.
The questions on which the judges divided in the cou:t below are mentioned in the opinion of Mr. Justice Nelson. The
argdments of counsel here were mainly on the merits of the

