DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
.mcCooz vs. Smith.

But he was not able to prove such averments, if they had been
made, and his case failed both in its pleadings and its proofs;
consequently there was error in ruling the demurrers of the
plaintiff to the 4th, 6th, and 7th pleas of defendant in favor of
plaintiffs. The pleas alleged proper matters of defence to the
suit, either in whole or in part. They were sufficient on general demurrer, which goes back to the first error in pleading.
And from what we have already said, the first error in pleading is found in the declaration. It is not necessary to discuss
more at large the form of the pleadings, or whether the action
should not have been convenant and not debt, as the plaintiff
was not entitled to recover in any form of action, according to
the undisputed facts in evidence.

Thejudgment of the Circuit Court reversed, and venire de novo.

MaCooL VS. SMITH.

1. A statute of Virginia, passed after the 1st of March, 1784, when Virginia ceded to the United States her territory north and west of the
Ohio, has not, and never had, any force within the limits of Illinois.

2. In ascertaining who is meant by next of kin in a statute of Illinois regulating descents or a distribution, the computation must be made
according to the rules of the common law.
3. It is a sound rule, that whenever a Legislature in this country uses a
term, without defining it, which is well known in the English law,
it must be understood in the sense of the English law.
4. By the rules of the common law, terms of kindred, when used in a
statute, include only those who are legitimate, unless a different intention is clearly manifested.
5. In Illinois a plaintiff in ejectment cannot recover upon a title which
he acquired after the commencement of the suit. Such a recovery
would be against an inflexible rule of the common law and an express statute of that State.
6. One statute is not to be construed as a repeal of another if it be pos-

sible to reconcile the twc together.
Writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the northern district of Illinois.

SUPREME COURT.
r CooZ vs. Smith.

Hamilton McCool brought ejectment in the Circuit Court
against Spencer Smith for the northeast quarter of section
eleven, in township 10 north, of range 1 west, of the fourth
principal meridian. The defendant pleaded not guilty, and a
jury being called, found the following special verdict:
"That the land mentioned in the said declaration was, on
the 7th day of June, 1818, duly granted by the United States
to Alonzo Redman, for his military services in the late war between the United States and Great Britain; that said Redman
was the illegitimate son of Polly Norris; that said Polly Norris had three other illegitimate children, named Eleanor Fogg,
Joseph Meleher, and Sophia Norton; that Eleanor Fogg died
without issue in the year 1824; that Joseph Melcher died without issue in the year 1814; that Alonzo Redman died without
issue in the year 1825; that Polly Norris died without any
other issue than as above stated, in the year 1837; that Sophia
Norton married Reuben Rand in the year 1816; that Reuben
Rand died in June, 1853; that Sophia Rand, on the 28d day
of June, 1854, by her quit claim deed of that date duly executed, conveyed said land to one Levi F. Stevens; that said
Stevens, on the 21st day of April, 1855, by his quit-claim deed
of that date, duly conveyed said land to Spencer Smith, the
plaintiff.
"That the General Assembly of the State of Illinois passed
an act, entitled 'An act to amend an act concerning the descent
of real property in this State, approved February 12, 1853,'
which act was approved by the Governor on the 16th day of
February, 1857, which act is in the words and figures following, viz:
"'SECTIoN 1. Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois,
represented in the General Assembly, That in all cases where any
person shall have died, leaving any real property, before the
passage of the act to which this is an amendment, which, by
the provisions of the act to which this is an amendment, would
have descended to any illegitimate child or children, such child
or children shall be deemed and adjudged to be the owner of
such real property, the same as if such act had been in force
at the time of such death, unless "such property shall have
been proceeded against, and the title thereto vested in tho

DECEMBER TERM. 1861.
HAc Cool vs. Smith.

State, or other persons, under the law of this State concerning,
escheats.
"' SECTION 2. In all such cases, hereinbefore specified, where
any such illegitimate child or children shall have sold and conveyed such real property by deed duly executed, or where the
same would have descended by the provisions of the act to
which this is an amendment; and shall have been conveyed by
deed by the person'to whom the same would have descended,
then such conveyances shall vest the same title thereto in the
grantee as by this act is vested in such illegitimate child, from
the date of such deed, and in all actions and courts such
grantee shall be deemed to be the owner of such real property
from the time of the date of the conveyance.
"'SECTION 3. This act shall be in force from and after its
passage.'
"That said lands have never been proceeded against, and
the title thereto vested in the State, or other persons, under
the law of this State concerning escheats.
"We further find, that John Brown, collector of taxes, in and
for the county of Warren, and State of Illinois, did, on the
25th day of May, 1840, sell said land to Isaac Murphy, for the
taxes due to the State and county aforesaid, upon said land,
for the year 1839, and that he did, on the 9th day of September, 1843, in pursuance of said sale by deed of that date, convey said land to the said Murphy; that said collector, in making
such sale and conveyance, did not comply with the law authorizing the sale of lands for taxes, and that said deed was for
that reason invalid as a conveyance of the legal title. That
said Murphy claiming said land in good faith, under said deed,
improved, occupied, and cultivated the same, and paid all the
taxes assessed thereon, for and during the years 1843, 1844,
1845, and 1846. That said Murphy, on the 7th day of April,
1847, by his deed of that date, conveyed the said land to Hamilton J. McOool, the defendant, who immediately thereafter
took possession thereof, and has been in the actual possession
thereof ever since, claiming the same in good faith, under said
conveyances, and that he has paid all the taxes assessed upon
said land for and during the years 1847, 1848, 1849, 1850,

SUPREME COURT.
HMC Cool, vs. ,Smith.
1851, 1852, 1853, 1854, 1855, and 1856. That the taxes so
paid to the said State and -county, by the said Murphy and
McCool, amount to the sum of one hundred and nine dollars.
If from these facts the court is of the opinion that the plaintiff
is entitled to recover, &c., then we find for the plaintiff, and
that said plaintiff is the owner of the land, in fee simple, and
assess his damages at one cent; otherwise, we find for the defendant."
Upon this verdict the Circuit Court gave judgment for the
plaintiff, and the defendant took his writ of error.
Mr. Browning, of Illinois, for plaintiff in error. Redman
being an illegitimate child,,his mother could not take under
the ordinance of,1787, which speaks only of children, descendants, parents, next of kin, &c. When words denoting kindred
are used, either in laws or private instruments, without other
additions, they include none but legitimate kindred. 2 Kent's
Com., 212-18; 4 Kent's Com., 418-14; 8 Cruise Dig. Tit., 29,
dn. 2, sec. 8, and note; 2 Domat., p. 26, Art. 2455; p. 49,
Art. 2497 and 8; p. 88, Art. 2571; p. 211, Art. 2861; p. 280,
Art. 3029; p. 283, Art. 3086; p. 178, Articles 2793 and 4; Illinois Stat. of Wills, sections 46, 47, and 53; Bayley vs. Mollard,
(1 Russel & Mylne, 575;) S.C. 4 Cond. Eng. Chancery R.,
565; Wilkinson vs. Adams, (1 Ves. & Bea., ,422;) Swaine vs.
Kennedy, (1 Ves. & Bea., 469;) Beachcrofl vs. Beacherofl, (1
Madd., 234;) Sherman vs. Angel, (1 Bailey Eq. R., 851;) Col.
lins vs. ifoxie, (9 Paige, 88;) -Durantvs. _riend, (11 Eng. Law
and Eq. R., 2;) Owen vs. Bryant, (13 Eng. Law and Eq. R.,
217.)
The Illinois statute of 1829 provided, not that bastards
should inherit from each other, or that their mother should
inherit from them, but only that they should inherit from their
mother. At any rate it does not embrace this case, for Redman died four years before it was passed.
The act of'1853 did provide, that upon the death of an illegitimate person leaving no husband, wife, or children, his or
her estate should go to the mother; and if there was no mother,.
then to the mother's next of kin. But this act was prospect,

DECEM1BER TERM, 1861.
.Icool vs. Smith.

ive, and did not meet a case like this, where the decedent had
died long before.
It was after the commencement of this suit that the plaintiff
procured the act of 1857 to be passed, which is set forth in the
special verdict, and which declares that the act of 1853 shall
relate back to the cases of illegitimate persons whe died before
its passage. As a law which impairs existing rights, its validity
cannot be sustained. Gaines et at. vs. Buford, (1 Dana, 499;)
-olden vs. James, (ll Mass., 404;) .oke vs. H enderson, (4 Dev.,
7;) Wallcy's H irs vs. Kennedy, (2 Yerg., 564;) Bank vs. Cooper's
Securities, (2 Yerg., 600;) Jones vs. Perry, (10 Yerg., 69;) Picquet's Appeal, (5 Pick., 65;) Lewis et al.vs. Webb, (3 Greenl., 326.)
Was it a legislative grant of public land by the State? The
title was not vested in the State by a judgment of escheat, and
therefore the grantee could take nothing, certainly nothing
more than the inchoate right of the State. Ill. St. of Escb.,
Rev. Code of 1845, p. 225; 3 Blackstone Com., 259; -Fairfax's -Deviseevs. Runter's Lessee, (7 Cranch, 625-6;) 2 Curtis,
690-1; Craig vs. Bradford,(3 Wheat., 599;) S.C. 4 Curtis, 308;
3 Com. Dig., Tit. Escheat, page 598, bottom paging; -Denvs.
Simpson, (Cam. & Nor., 192;). Marshall vs. Loveless, (Cam. &
Nor., 233;) MeCrury vs. Allender, (2 lHar. & Mcflen., 409;)
.Doe vs. Horniblea, (2 EHayw., 37.)
If a proceeding had been instituted against the land as escheated, the present defendant would have been made a party,
and his defence would have been unanswerable. IHe had
bought the land from the State at a tax sale, paid for it, and
been in possession fourteen years. But the grant was not to
the plaintiff. If it vested title in anybody, it was either in
Sophia Rand, who would have inherited under the act of 1853,
or else in her grantee, Levi F. Stephens. True, Stephens attempted to convey to the plaintiff, but he had no title, and as
his deed was merely a quit claim, his subsequently acquired
title did not inure to the benefit of the plaintiff. Jac. Law
Diet. Grant -Dellanyvs.Burrelt, (4 Grl., 493;) -Funkvs. Dart,
(14 l., 307;) Phelps vs. Klog, (15 Ill., 135.)
Even admitting that the act of 1857 was valid, conceding
that it could operate retrospectively, nd granting that it vested

SUPREME COURT.
.t C'ool vs. Smith.

a title in the plaintiff himself, still he could not recover in this
action, because it was commenced before he acquired his title.
Such is the rule of the common law, and the ejectment statute
of Illinois is emphatic and clear to the same effect. Section
3 provides that no person shall recover in ejectment unless he
has title at the time of commencing the action.
Besides all this, the defendant was completely protected by
the statute of limitations, which declares that seven years' possession of land, with payment of taxes, shall entitle the occupant to be adjudged the legal owner to the extent of his proper
title.
Mr. Zellogg, of Illinois, for defendant in error, argued that
the mother of Redfield was his next of kin within the meaning
of the law of descents, though the son was illegitimate; that his
illegitimate sister could inherit, through her mother; and that
the act of 1857 was constitutional.
1. The subtleties and refinements of the common law are
not adopted in Illinois. In Hays vs. Thomas, (Breese, 186,)
the Supreme Court of that State held that the civil law mode
of ascertaining who are next of kin ought to be adopted in
construing our statute; and therefore the mother is to be regarded as next of kin to her son. This is conclusive.
'2. An illegitimate child may inherit land from the mother.
The Illinois statute of descents declares, as its first proposition,
that estates of persons dying intestate shall descend to his or
her children and their descendants in equal parts.
That at common law, the word child, when used in statutes
of this character, was limited to one born in lawful wedlock, is
undeniable. But does the English law on this subject prevail
in Illinois? No. From the earliest history of that State the
policy of her legislation has been to change the English law.
The statute of Virginia, passed in 1787, made bastards capable
of inheriting from their mother, and transmitting inheritances
on her part. This positive enactment, directly contravening
the common law, became and was the law of Illinois until 1845,
when the Legislature of the State expressly adopted the Virginia statute, by providing that the children of a single woman

DECENIBER TERM, 1861.

465

.lc Cool vs. Smith.

should not be excluded from taking her property by inheritance
on account of their illegitimacy. Following this act of 1845,
and amendatory of it, was the act of 1857.
Even at common law, bastards are recognised as children
for every purpose but that of succession.. Tenn. Rep., 101. They
may take under a devise as children of their mother: Corn. Dig.,
Baslard,E. They are punishable for incest: Regina vs. Cha.ffin.
It is established by the authority of Hays & Thomas that the
statutes of distribution are to be construed by the civil law.
Bythat law an illegitimate person may inherit from the mother,
she being sufficiently certain, though the father is not.
The very point was decided in HYeath vs. White, (5 Conn., 228,)
that the word children in a statute for the purpose of inheriting from the mother shall be construed to include illegitimate
children; and the same doctrine was expressly held in BurlinqIon vs. Fosby; (6 Va., 83.)
3. The act of 1857 was constitutional and valid. To mako
a statute void it must be shown that it comes in direct confli.t
with some constitutional prohibition. It is not enough that it
is retroactive, or divests antecedent rights, or gives remedies
for defects in a title which would otherwise have been fatal, or
affects pending suits, or gives a party rights which he did not
possess before, unless it also impairs the obligation of a contract, or has the character of an ex postfacto law. Satterlee vs.
.Malthewson, (2 Pet., 880;) Watson vs. Mercer, (8 Pet., 110;)
Charles -RiverBridge vs. Warren Bridge, (11 Pet., 509;) Wilson
vs. Baptist .Educ. Soc., (10 Bach., 318;) Syracuse Bank vs. Davis,
(16 Bach., 188;) Underwood vs. Lilly, (10 Serg. & Rawle, 97;)
Tate vs. Stoolzfoas, (16 Serg. & R., 35;) -epburn vs. Kurtz, (7
Watts, 360;) Baughervs.l.N ,lson, (9 Gill, 299;) Goshen vs. Stonington, (4 Conn., 410;) lllather vs. Chapman, (6 Conn., 54;) Beech
vs. Walker, (6 Conn., 190;) Booth vs. Booth, (7 Conn., 365;)
Norton vs. Pettibone, (7 Conn., 316.) But this act of 1857 took
away no existing right; it simply construes the acts of 1845
and 1853 by making them relate to previous as well as to subsequent cases. It confirms rights, but does not destroy them.
M r. Justice SWAYINE.
VOL. I.

30

This was an action of ejectment

SUPRETNIE COURT.
X cool vs. Smith.

in the court below. Smith was plaintiff, and McCool defendant. A special verdict was found by the jury. 'The court
rendered judgment for the plaintiff.
The defendant has
brought the case here by a writ of error, and is the plaintiff
in error in this court.
The material facts of the case, as shown in the record, are
as follows:
Polly Norris had four illegitimate children. Their names
were: Alonzo Redman, Eleanor Fogg, Joseph Melcher, and
Sophia Norton.
Alonzo Redman was the patentee of the land in controversy. He died without issue in the year 1825.
Joseph Melcher died without issue in the year 1814.
Eleanor Fogg died without issue in the year 1824.
Sophia Norton married Reuben Rand in the year 1816.
Reuben Rand-died in June, 1853.
Polly Norris died in 1887 without having had any other issue
than those named.
Sophia Rand, on the 23d day of June, 1854, by her quitclaim deed of that date, duly executed, conveyed the land in
controversy to Levi F. Stevens. Stevens, on the 21st of
April, 1855, by a like deed of that date, conveyed the land
to Smith, the plaintiff.
The first law of Illinois, making the blood of bastards heritable, was passed in 1829. This was wholly prospective, and
is no otherwise material in this case than as showing the sense
of the Legislature of the necessity of such legislation to produce that result.
On the 12th of February, 1853, the Legislature passed
another law upon the same subject. It provides, that "on the
death of any such person"His or her property shall go to the widow or surviving husband and children, as the property of other persons in like
cases.
If there be no children, the whole property shall vest in the
surviving widow or husband.
If there be no widow or husband, or descendants, the property shall vest in the mother apd her children, and their de-

DECEMBER TERM,. 1861.
e Cool vs. S'mith.

scendants: the mother taking one-half;. the "other hhlf to'b
equally divided between her children and their descendants;
If there be no heirs as above provided,- then the propeity
shall vest "in the next of kin of the mother, in the same manner
as the estate of a legitimate person."
This act also was prospective, and did not affect this case.
On the 16th of February, 1857, the Legislature passed ,an
act amending the preceding act.
The first section provides, that where any person shll have!
died before the passage of the amended act, leaving property,;
which by the provisions of that act would have descended to
any illegitimate child or children, such child or children shalt
be deemed the owner of such property, "the same as if such
-act had been in force at the time of such death," unless the
title shall have been "vested in the State, or other persons,
under the law of this State concerning escheats."
The second section provides, that in 'all the cases befofe
specified where such illegitimate child has conveyed the property by deed, duly executed, "or when the same would have
descended by the provisions of the act to which this is aii
amendment, and shall have been conveyed by deed by the
person to whom the same would have descended, then such
conveyances shall vest the same title thereto in the grantee,
as by this act-is vested in such illegitimate child from the date
of such deed, and in all actions and courts such grantee shall
be deemed to be the owner of such real property from the
Aime of the date of the conveyance."
This act took effect from its date.
It is claimed by the counsel of the defendant in error that,
"at the time of the cession of the northwestern territory to the
General Government by the State of Virgin.ia, the statute of
that State directing the course of descents, passed in 17'85, and
which took effect January 1st, 1787, provided as follows:
"In making title by descent, it shall be no bar to a party,
that any ancestor, through whom he deriies his descent fromt
the intestate, is or hath been an alien. Bastards also shall be
capable of inheriting, or of .transmitting inheritance.o- the part o,

SUPREME COURT.
e Cool vs. Smith.

their mother, in lice manner as ifthey had been. lawfully begotten of
sue." mother."
It is claimed, also, that this statute continued in force in
Illinois during the whole period of her Territorial existence,
and after she became a State to a period later than the death
of Alonzo Redman.
To this proposition there is a conclusive answer.
The General Assembly of Virginia, by a resolution of the
20th of October, 1783, authorized her delegates in Congress
to execute a deed, ceding to the United States all her "right,
title, and claim, as well of soil as jurisdiction," to the territory
northwest of Ohio. The deed was executed on the 1st of
*March, 1784. From that time, except as to the reservations
expressed in the deed, which in nowise affect the question
here under consideration, Virginia had no more claim to, or
jurisdiction over that territory, than any other State of the
Union.
It is also claimed, that the act of the Legislature of Illinois
of 1819, which was in force at the time of the death of Alonzo
Redman, gave his estate, under the circumstances, to "the
next of kin," and that applying the civil law interpretation to
those terms, his mother was such "next of kin," and hence
took an estate of inheritance in the land in question under
that act. Breese's Reports, 136, Iays vs. Thomas, is relied
upon as authority for this proposition. In that case, the principle was applied as between legitimate persons claiming under
a legitimate decedent. The same remark applies to Hlillhouse
vs. Chester, (3 Day's Rep., 166;) which the case of Hays vs.
Thomas followed.
In Rillhouse vs. Chester, the court say:
"It cannot be pretended that the plaintiff is next of in to
Mary, if we give the same construction to the words which
they have received in the English law."
"It has always been held that, to ascertain who this person
is, the computation is to be made according to the rules of the
civillaw." "Our statute, which directed that, in such an event,
the estate of the intestate, both real and pejsonal, should go to

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
.A[cCooZ vs. Smith.

the next of kin, was enacted at a time when the aforesaid statute
of Car. Ii, and the construction given to it, was perfectly known.
It is a sound rule, that whenever our Legislature use a term
without defining it, which is well known in the English law,
and there has been a definite appropriate meaning affixed to it,
they must be supposed to use it in the sense in which it is understood in the English law."
The class of adjudications in England referred to were never
claimed to affect the legal condition of bastards there. How
can the same principle, decided in Hays & Thomas, have that
effect in Illinois?
It is also claimed that the legal status of Alonzo Redman,
at the time of his death, is to be determined by the civil and
not by the common law; and it is insisted, that by the provisions of the civil law legitimate and illegitimate children
stood upon a footing of equality. We have not deemed it
necessary to examine the provisions of the civil law referred to,
because, in our judgment, they have no application to the subj3ct. When Alonzo Redman died, the common law of England was in full force in the State of Illinois.
,The ordinance of 1787 guaranteed that "judicial proceedings" in the Territory should be "according to the course of
the common law. "In 1795, the Territorial governor and judges
adopted that law for the Territory.
By an act of the Legislature of Illinois, of the 4th of February, 1819, it was provided:
"That the common law of England, and all statutes or acts
of the British Parliament made in aid of the common law
prior to the 4th year of the reign of King James the 1st, excepting the second section of the sixth chapter of XLIII Elizabeth, the eighth chapter XU[- Elizabeth, and ninth chapter
XXXVII Kenry VIII, and which are of a general nature, and
not local to that kingdom, shall be the rule of decision, and
shall be considered of full force until repealed by legislative
authority."
This act has been in force ever since its date:
3 Scam., 301, Penny vs. Little; idem, 120, Boger vs. Sweet;
id., 396, Stewart vs. Th People; 5 Gil., 180, Seeley vs. Peters.

SUPREME COURT.
.Hcool vs. Smith.

-

The Wills act of 1829, section 47, that of 1845, section 58,
and the act of 1853, all, by the clearest implication, recognise
the heritable disabilities of the illegitimate in the absence of
enabling statutes. Such is also the theory of the act of 1857.
By the rules of the common law, terms of kindred, when
used in a statute, include only those who are legitimate, unless
a different intention is clearly manifested. This is conceded
by the counsel for the defendant in error. The proposition is
too clear to require- either argument or authority to sustain it.
The legal position of Alonzo Redman, at the time of his
death, was what the common law made it. In the eye of that
law, he wasfilius nullius. He had neither father, mother, nor
sister. He could neither take from, nor transmit to, those
standing in such relations to him, any estate by inheritance.
These views bring us to the conclusion that no title to the
land in controversy was ever vested in Polly Norris, and none
in Sophia Rand, nor in the plaintiff below, until the act oF
February 16, 1857, took effect.
This suit was commenced on the 2d day of July, 1855.
Conceding that the act of 1857 vested in the defendant ia
error a valid title, can he recover in this action? The rule of the
6ommon law is inflexible, that a party can recover in ejectment
only upon a title which subsisted in him at the time of the
Johnson vs. J-ones, decided at
commencement of the suit.
this term. So regardful has the State of Illinois been of this
principle, that she has embodied it in a statute. Her ejectment act provided that"No person shall recover in ejectment unless he has, at the
time of commencing the action, a valid subsisting interest in
the premises claimed, and a right to recover the same, or to
recover possession thereof, or some share, interest, or portion
thereof, to be proved or established at the trial."
If the plaintiff below can succeed in this action, it must be
because the act of 1857 impliedly repeals this provision as to
this case. If there were no such statutory provision, the act
of 1857, being in derogation of the common law, would be
cbnstrued strictly. "A repeal by implication is not favored."
"The leaning of the courts is against the doctrine, if it be

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
.c Cool vs. Smith.

possible to reconcile the two acts of the Legislature together."
Sedg. Stat. and Cons. Law, 127; 4 Gill and J., 1, Canal Cb.
vs. 1Railroad C.; 5 Hill, 221, Bowen vs. Lease; 2 Barb. S. 0.
R., 316, Williams vs, Potter.
We see nothing in the act of 1857 which indicates a purpose
to contravene this common law principle and supersede this
statutory provision as respects this action. It is possible to
reconcile the two acts. It may well be that the Legislature
intended to vest the title retrospectively for the purpose of
giving effect to mesne conveyances and preventing frauds,
without intending also to throw the burden of the costs of an
action of ejectment, then pending, upon a defendant, who, as
the law and the facts were at the commencement of the action,
must have been the successful party. A stronger case than
this must be presented to induce us to sanction such a, result
by our judgment. If the plaintiff below can recover, it must
be in action brought after the 16th of February, 1857. He
cannot recover upon a title acquired since the commencement
,
of this suit.
In holding otherwise, the court below committed an error.
Several other very important questions have been discussed
by the counsel of the parties. We have not considered them;
and intimate no opinion in regard to them.
The judgment below must be reversed, and the cause remanaea,
with instructions to enter aj dgment for the plaintiff in error
upon the special verdiot.

