DECEM]BER TERM, 1861.

55

United States vs. Babbit.

sisted that the decree was final. It is a simple adjudication of
the question raised upon the bill, answer, and replication,
and it is none the less a final decree because it is coupled with
a threat of the court to appoint a receiver in case the defendants shall disobey it. He cited Hrarney vs. Bronson, (1 Leigh,
108;) Shepherd vs. Starce, (3Mumford, 29;) Cooc vs. Berry, (I
How., Miss., 503;) Larne vs. Lame, (2 Little, 261 ;) Hynds' Ch.,
429; 2 Madd., 243; Newland, 49; 3 Dan. Ch. Prac., 1949.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. -This decree is final. It is decisive of the case made upon the record. It is positive, and
not alternative. It leaves no question of right between the
parties open for future adjudication. The decree orders the
money to be brought into court within a limited time, and the
court warns the defendants that if they fail or make default a
particular measure will be taken to compel obedience. There
is no want of finality here.
The motion is denied.
UNITED STATES Vs. BABBIT.
1. The register of a land office is not entitled to retain a larger sum than
three thousand dollars, as commissions for locating military bounty
land warrants, under the acts of February 11, 1847; September 25,
1850; March 22, 1852, and March 3,1855.
2. All fees received by a register, whether for locating military bounty
land warrants, or for other services, in excess of the maximum fixed
by law, must be paid into the treasury.
3. The second proviso, in the third section of the act of March 22, 1852,
which declares "that no register or receiver shall receive for his
services, during any year, a greater compensation than the maximum
now allowed by law," is not limited in its effect to the section where
it is found, but is an independent proposition, which applies alike
to all officers of this class.
Writ of error to the District Court of the United States for
the district of Iowa.
The United States brought debt against Lysander W. Babbit

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Babbit.

and his sureties on his official bond as register of the land
office at Kanesville, Iowa. Babbit was commissioned on the
6th of April, 1858, and held his office until the 20th of October, 1856, to which time his accounts were adjusted by, the
accounting officers of the treasury, showing a balance against
him of $9,816 24. This amount consisted of fees received by
him for locating military bounty land warrants under the acts
of February 11, 1847, September 25, 1850, March 22, 1852,
and March 8, 1855. The accounts credited him with commissions to the full amount of $3,000, and the balance of
the fees received by him being in excess of the maximum allowed by law, the United States brought this suit to recover
them. The defence was, tlhat the fees rightfully belonged to
the officer himself, and he was not bound to account for them
to the United States. The question of law raised in the cause
was, whether a register of the land office who has received
fees for locating military bounty lands can retain them, whatever may be their amount, or whether he is bound to account
for them, and pay over to the treasury all he receives beyond
three thousand dollars of such fees, as of others. The District
Court decided the point in favor of the defendants, and the
United States brought the case into the Supreme Court on
writ of error.
The Attorney General (Mr. Bates) for the United States.
Mr. Beverdy Johnson, of Maryland, and
ington city, for defendant.

r. Gillet, of Wash.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE. This was an action in the court
below, upon the official bond of the defendant, ]Babbit, as
register of the land office at Kanesville, in the State of Iowa.
The bond bears date on the 9th day of May, 1853. The petition,
we are advised, is according to the practice in the courts of
that State. It sets out a copy of the bond, and alleges, as a
breach, that IBabbit, "as such receiver, and by virtue of his
office, to wit, from the 6th day of April, 1853, to the 20th day
of October, 1856, received, as fees for the location of military

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

57

United States vs. Babbit.

bounty land warrants, under the provisions of the acts of'Congress approved 11th of February, 1847, 25th of -September,
1850, 22d of March, 1852, and 3d of March, 1855, the sum
total of $13,879 08; and that sum the said Babbit still holds,
and refuses to pay to the plaintiffs, though often requested and
directed by the proper officers to do so-the sum of nine thousand eight hundred and sixteen dollars and twenty-four cents."
The pleader has annexed to, and made a part of the petition,
a Treasury transcript of the accounts of the register, showing
the balance against him claimed by the plaintiffs.
The defendants demurred, and assigned for causes:
1. That the petition was so defective in form that the plaintiffs could not, by law, maintain their action.
2. That the petition did not set forth a cause of action in
proper form.
8. That no cause of action was set forth in the petition; for
that, bylaw, the defendant Babbit was entitled to retain the said
moneys received by him, as fees of office, and was not bound
to account-to the plaintiffs for the same.
The petition is in striking contrast with the brevity and
clearness of the common law forms in like cases. It contains,
however, all the substantial elements of a good declaration,
and sufficiently discloses the cause of action which the pleader
designed to present.
This brings us to the consideration of the main question in
the case, which is, whether the defendant IBabbit is entitled to
retain, for his own use, the fees in controversy ? The proper
solution of this question must depend upon a careful examination of the acts of Congress to which our attention has beencalled.
The act of April 20, 1818, (3 Stat., 466,) provides: "That,
instead of the compensation now allowed by law to the registers of the land offices, they shall receive an annual salary of
five hundred dollars each, and a commission of one per centum
upon all moneys expressed in the receipts by them filed and
entered, and of which they shall have transmitted an account
to the Secretary of the Treasury: Provided, That the whole
amount which any register of the land offices shall receive

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Babbit.

under the provisions of this act shall not exceed, for any one
year, the sum of three thousand dollars."
The act of February 11, 1847, (9 Stat., 125,) gave to certain
non-commissioned officers, musicians, and privates in the Mexican war, each one hundred and sixty acres of land. This act
makes no provision for fees.
The act of NLgy 17, 1848, (9 Stat., 231,) authorized registers
and receivers to receive from the holders of warrants the fees
therein specified, for their services in carrying out the provisions of the act of 1847, with a proviso, that where the warrant was located for the use of the volunteer to whom it was
issued, no compensation should be charged either by the register or receiver.
The act of September 28, 1850, (9 Stat., 520,) authorized
the issuing of bounty land warrants to the soldiers who performed military service in the war of 1812, or in any of the
Indian wars since 1790, and to the commissioned officers in
the Mexican war. This act made no provision for fees; but,
on the contrary, directed the locations to be made "free of
expense."
The act of March 22, 1852, (10 Stat., 4,) extends the benefits of the act of 1850 to all cases where the militia or volunteers of any State or Territory were called into military service and paid by the United States, subsequent to the 18th of
June, 1812.
The second and third sections of that act are as follows:
"SEc. 2. That the registers and receivers of the land offices

shall hereafter be severally authorized to charge and receive
for their services, in locating all military bounty land warrants
issued since the 11th day of February, 1847, the same. compensation or per-centage to which they are entitled by law for
sales of public lands for cash, at the rate of $1 25 per acre,
the said compensation to be hereafter paid by the assignees or
holders of such warrants.
"SEc. 3. That registers and receivers, whether in or out of
office at the passage of this act, or their legal representatives
in case of death, shall be entitled to receive from the treasury
of the United States, for services heretofore performed in

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

59

United States vs. Babbit.

locating military bounty Thnd warrants, the same rate of compensation provided in the preceding section for services hereafter to be performed, after deducting the amount already received by such officers under the act entitled 'An act to require the holders of military land warrants to compensate the
land officers,' &c., approved May 17, 1848: Provided,That no
register or receiver shall receive any compensation out of the
treasury for past services, who has charged and received illegal
fees for the location of such warrants: And provided, farther,
That no register or receiver shall receive for his services, during any year, a greater compensation than the maximum now
allowed by law."
The appropriation act of March 3, 1853, (10 Stat., 224,)
contains at its close the following proviso:
"That whenever the amount received at any United States
land office, under the third section of an act entitled 'An act
to make land warrants assignable, and for other purposes,'
approved March 22, 1852, has exceeded or shall exceed the
amount which the registers and receivers at any such office
are entitled to receive under said third section, the surplus
which shall remain, after paying the amount so due as aforesaid to said registers and receivers, shall be paid into the treasury of the United States as other public moneys."
The act of March 3,1855, (10 Stat., 635,) provides:"
"That each register of a land office and receiver of public
moneys shall receive the same amount of pay for each and
every entry of land made under the graduation act of 1854,
as such officer is by law entitled to receive for similar entries
of land at the minimum price of one, dollar and twenty-five
cents per acre: Provided, That the whole amount received
per year shall in no case exceed the limitation fixed by existing laws."
By another act of the same date as the preceding act, (10
Stat., 701,) it is provided:
"That the registers and receivers of the several land offices
shall be severally authorized to charge and receive for their services,
in locating all warrants under the provisions of this act, the
same compensation or per-centage to which they are entitled

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Babbit.

by law for the sales of public lands for cash, at the rate of
one dollar and twenty-five cents per acre, the said compensation to be paid by the assignees or holders of such warrants."
The general appropriation act of August 18, 1856, (11 Stat.,
91,) provides:
"That, in the settlement of the accounts of registers and
receivers of the public land offices, the Secretary of the Interior be authorized to allow, subject to the approval of Congress, such reasonable compensation for additional clerical
services and extraordinary expenses incident to said offices as
he shall think just and proper, and report to Congress all such
cases of allowance at each succeeding session, with estimates
of the sum or sums required to pay the same."
The act of March 3, 1853, (10 Stat., 245,) fixes the salaries
of registers and receivers in California at $3,000 each, and
prohibits them from receiving any per-centage or fees, except
for deciding pre-emption cases.
The act of July 17, 1854, (10 Stat., 306,) limits the salaries
of the registers and receivers of Oregon and Washington Territories each to $2,500 per annum, and office rent, and prohibits them from receiving fees or emoluments of any kind,
except the receivers' necessary expenses for depositing moneys.
The act of July 12, 1858, (11 Stat., 325,) gives the same
compensation to registers and receivers in NTew Mexico which
those officers receive in Washington Territory, with a proviso, that their compensation, including fees, shall not exceed $3,000
each per annum.
This is the legislation, by the light of which we are to make
up our judgment in this case.
It is a rule in the construction of statutes, that all relpting
to the same subject-matter shall be considered together.
The act of 1818 fixes a specific sum as the maximum amount
which registers shall be permitted to receive. Whenever Congress has spoken upon the subject since that time, the same
policy has been adhered to. This remark applies to this class of
officers alike in the Atlantic and Pacific States and Territories.
The act of 1856 provides a mode of compensating them "for
additional clerical services and extraordinary expenses,"

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
United States vs. Babbit.

The act of 1852 -provides for the compensation, upon the
lasis of fees, of registers who had gone out of office, and of
those who were then in office. The latter, for future as well
as past services, were limited to the maximum then "allowed
by law," which was three thousand dollars per annum.
It would be singular if one rate of compensation were provided for those then in office, and their predecessors, and another and a different one in respect of their successors, for the
same services, rendered under the same circumstances. It is
insisted by the counsel fo the defendants a error that this is
a necessary result, because the proviso at the end of the third
section of this act, which imposes the limitation, is confined,
in its operation, to the cases mentioned in the previous part of
the same section. If this were so, the result claimed would
not necessarily follow. In that case, we should find no diffi.
culty in holding it to be clearly implied that the same rule of
compensation should apply to their successors as to the then
incumbents and their predecessors. What is implied in a
statute, pleading, contract, or will, is as much a part of it as
what is expressed. (2 Paine's Rep., 251,) Koning vs. Bayard;
(8 Wend., 258,) 1aight vs. Holley; (10 Wend., 218,) Rogers vs.
Kneland; (20 Wend., 447,) Fox vs. Phelps; (Com. Dig., Tit.
Devise, n. 12.)
"A thing within the intention of the makers of the statute
is as much within the statute as if it were within the letter.
(Plow., 866,) Zouch vs. Stowell; (3 How., 565, ) U. S. vs. F_-eeman.
But we do not place our decision upon this ground. We
are of opinion that the proviso referred to is not limited in its
effect to the section where it is found, but that it was affirmed
by Congress as an independent proposition, and applies -alike
to all officers of this class.
Whether the proviso in the appropriation act of 1856 is to
be construed as referring to the 3d section of the act of 1852,
according to its letter, or to the 2d section, as is claimed in
behalf of the Government, we have not found it necessary to
consider.
The views we have expressed are sufficient to decide thi

SUPREME COURT.
The Steamer New Philadelphda.

case. They conduct us to the conclusion, that the court below
erred in sustaining the demurrer.

Judgment of the -DistrictCourtreversed, and cause remanded, with
directions to proceed in conformity to the opinion of the Supreme Court.*
THE

STEAMER NEW

PHILADELPHIA- Cmden

& Amboy

C.,

Claimants; Brady, Libellant.
A steamer having a coal-barge in tow was navigated so carelessly or unskilfully that the barge was in danger of striking a sloop lying fast at
a dock. The sloop, to prevent the collision, put out a fender, by which
the barge was so injured that she filled and sunk: Held1. That the owner of the barge was entitled to recover from the steamer
for the loss of his vessel and cargo.
2. The putting out of th&fender for such a purpose was no fault on the
part of the sloop.
3. If there had been a fault, from the kind of fender used, the steamer
would nevertheless be responsible.
4. The rule is, that when property is injured by two co-operating causes,
though the persons producing them may not be in intentional concert, the owner is entitled to compensation from either or both, according to the circumstances.
5. Especially is the injured party entitled to recover from that one of the
two who has undertaken to convey the property with care and skill
to a place of destination, but has failed to do so.
Patrick F. Brady filed his libel against the steamer New
Philadelphia, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, in the District
Court of the United States for the southern district of New
York, in a case of collision, civil and maritime, alleging that
he, the libellant, was owner of the coal barge Owen Gorman,
* The case of U. S. vs. Coles was, in all essential particulars, the same as that

of U. S. vs. Babbit. It was heard here at the same time, and decided in the
same way.

