DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

115

Hogg vs. Ruffer.

the parties, before or at the time the cargo was placed in the
hands of the consignee, or if such an understanding is plainly
to be inferred from the established local usage of the port, a
court of admiralty will regard the transaction as a deposit of
the goods, for the time, in the warehouse, and not-as an absolute delivery; and, on that ground, will consider the shipowner as still constructively in possession, so far as to preserve
his lien and his remedy in rem.
But in the case before us, there is nothing from which such
an inference can be drawn. The goods were delivered,. it is
admitted, generally, and without any condition or qualification.
Upon such a delivery there could be neither actual nor constructive possession remaining in the ship-owner; and, consequently, there could be no right of retainer to support his
lien.
The decree of the Circuit Court, dismissing the libel, must
therefore be affirmed.

Decree afirmed.

HoGG vs. RUiFNER.
1. To constitute usury there must either be a loan upon usurious interest,
or the taking of more than legal interest, for the forbearance of a
debt or sum of money due. This is the common law definition of
the term, and the statute of Indiana does not enlarge it.
2. Where a sum of money is due on a contract for the sale of land, and
the vendor takes more than legal interest for the forbearance of the
debt, it is usury.
8. But where the owner of land proposes to sell it forone price in cash,
and for another price, double as large, on a long credit, and a purchaser prefers to pay the larger price for the sake of the longer
time, the contract cannot be called usurious.
Cross-appeal, from the decree of the District Court of the
United States for the district of Indiana.
Nathaniel B. Hogg brought his bill in the Circuit Court
against Benjamin Ruffner and several other defendants, who
were collaterally interested. The bill avers that Ruffner made

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg vs. Ruffner.

his nineteen promissory notes, for two thousand dollars each,
amounting in all to thirty-eight thousand dollars, payable to
the order of John W. Brice and James L. Birkey, with interest from their date, and that these notes were delivered
to Brice and Birkey; that in order to secure the payment of
the notes, Ruffner executed three mortgages to Brice and
Birkey, and that some of the notes and so much of the mortgages as secured them were assigned to the plaintiff. The
bill prays for a decree against the defendant that he pay the
sum due upon the notes, and in default thereof that tho
mortgaged premises be sold. The notes were to become duo
as follows: two on January 1, 1856, and two on the 1st of
April in each of the years 1857, 1858, 1859, 1860, 1861, 1862,
1863, 1864, 1865.
The answer of Ruffner is, that the notes and mortgages were
given on a contract usurious and corrupt. He was in debt (as
he asserts) in the sum of twenty thousand dollars to Brice and
Birkey, who took these nineteen notes for two thousand dollars each, with interest, payable as stated in the bill; that he,
the defendant, gave the notes and mortgages solely for the
debt of twenty thousand dollars, and being much embarrassed
and pressed for money, and seeing no other means to prevent
the sacrifice of his property by an oppressive and inexorable
creditor, agreed to the corrupt and usurious contract, and gave
his notes for the extra sum of eighteen thousand dollars for
the forbearance of the twenty thousand which were due.
The true character of the contract as proved in the Circuit
Court will be found stated in the opinion of Mr. Justice Grier
The Circuit Court held the notes which were due and tc
become due in the years 1861, 1862, 1863, 1864, and 1865, and
which were given for the eighteen thousand dollars, to be
usurious and void, and the remainder of the notes valid, as
covering only the debt justly owing to the parties by whom
they were taken. The court accordingly decreed payment of
the notes which were already due, with interest and costs. Frcm
this decree both parties appealed.
Mr. Stanton and Mr. Phillips, of Washington city, for the

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.

117

Hogg vs. tuffner.

defendant, contended that the decree of the Circuit Court was
erroneous, because: 1st, it includes interest and costs; and, 2d,
instead of taking the usury pro rata from all the notes, it
takes the whole from the last of the series. The law of Indiana governg the case. The statute of that State provides
that six per cent. shall be the legal interest, and if more is
taken the contract shall not therefore be void; but if in an
action on such contract it is proved to be usurious, the defendant shall recover costs, and the plaintiff shall recover only his
principal, without interest. 1 Rev. Stat. of Ind., 843. If the
last notes were usurious, it is difficult to see how the first
could be free from the taint. It would seem upon principle
that each note of the series must be infected with its share of
the poison, and so are all the authorities. Parson on Cont.,
890; Merritts vs. Law, (9 Cowan, 65;) Hammond vs. Howard,
(18 Johns.;) Willard vs. -Reeder, (2 MeCord, 369;) Lacomic Bank
vs. Johnson, (81 Maine, 414.)
Mr. .Thnter, of Ohio, for the complainant, insisted that
the decre., of the court awarding interest and costs to the
complainant was not erroneous, even on the assumption that
the contract was usurious. It is not afected by the statute of
Indiana, for it is not alleged in the answer that the contract
was made in that State, and by the common law a negotiable
note in the hands of a bona fide holders, cannot be avoided for
usury. Ang. & Ames on Corp., ยง 262; Seneca Co. Bank vs.
Nafs, (5 Den., 330;) White vs. How, (3 M. L., 291.) The
rule in England under the statute 12 Anne, c. 16, which declares all usurious securities to be void, is, that a note given on
a usurious contract for the forbearance of a pre-existing debt
is void, but the debt is not extinguished. Cro. Eliz., 20; 3
Campb., 119; 10 B. & C., 679. A fortiori such must be the
rule. in Indiana, where the statute expressly provides that the
usurious contract itself shall not be void.
But it is utterly denied that any usurious contract was made
between the parties, or that the written agreement referred to
in the answer was a device to conceal usury. While the de-

SUPREME COURT.
Hogg vs. 1?uffner.

fendant has no claim to a reversal of the decree for such reasons as he has given, the plaintiff, who also appeals, has a right
to complain and does complain of the error which the court
below committed in pronouncing a part of the notes to be
void. There is no taint of usury about the contract on which
they were made. The written contract repels every such presumption, .and so does the other evidence in the cause.
Mr. Justice GRIER. If the exception taken to the decree of
'the court below by the complainant be sustained, it will be
unnecessary to notice those taken by the respondents.
Was the contract of Brice and Birkey with Ruffner, which
shows the consideration of the mortgage and notes assigned to
the complainants, usurious?
The statute of Indiana declares, that "the rate of interest
upon the loan or for the forbearance of any money, &c., shall
be at the rate of six" per cent.; but "if a greater rate of interest shall be contracted for, received, or reserved, the contract
shall not, therefore, be void;" "the plaintiff shall recover only
his principal, without interest," and the "defendant shall :cover costs."
To constitute usury, there must either be a loan and a taking
of usurious interest, or the taking of more than legal interest
for the forbearance of a debt or sum of money due. This
statute does not profess to enlarge the common law definition
of the term, while it aims to include the common devices resorted to by usurers to evade its penalties.
The original contract by which a debt is created may be for
the purchase and sale of land, and it will be, nevertheless, contrary to the statute for the vendor to demand or receive more
than legal interest for the forbearance of such debt, as in the
case of Crawford vs. Johnson, (11 Indiana Reports, 258,) where
separate notes were taken for two per cent. interest, in addition
to the legal interest, on the sum due for the purchase money of
land.
But it is manifest that if A propose to sell to B a tract of
land for $10,000 in cash, or for $20,000 payable in ten annual

DEOEM.BER TERM, 1861.

119

Hogg vs. 1uffner.

instalments, and if B prefers to pay the larger sum to gain
time, the contract cannot be called usurious. A vendor may
prefer $100 in band to double the sum in expectancy, and a
purchaser may prefer the greater price with the longer credit,
and one who will not distinguish between things that differ:
may say, with apparent truth, that B pays a hundred per cent
for forbearance, and may assert that such a contract is.usurious.
but whatever truth there may be in the premises, the conclusiot
contract has none of the char
is manifestly erroneous. Such d.
acteristics of usury; it is not for the loan of money, or forbear
ance of a debt.
Does this case come within this category? We are of opinion that it does.
The mortgage and notes in question were given in exedution of a contract between the parties, dated the 20th of April,
1855. This contract is in writing, and signed by the parties.
It would be tedious and unprofitable to enumerate its various
covenants; but the chief subject of it is a sale of land by
Brice and Birkey to Ruffner for thd sum of $38,000, in ten
annual instalments, the sale to include, also, certain personal
property. There is no proof that the recitals of this contract
are untrue, or that the consideration of the notes and mortgage in question was other than is there stated. These parties
had formed a partnership in February, 1854, "for dealing in
land, farming," &c., &c. Brice and Birkey advanced money,
and had each an interest of one-third in the lands whose title
was in the name of Ruffner. In October of the same year
this partnership was dissolved, and Ruffner afterwards agreed
to pay certain sums of money to the other parties for a release
of their interest in the land, and gave them his obligations.
Afterwards, in February, 1855, in order to extinguish these
obligations, which he was unable to meet, he agreed to reconvey
to Brice and Birkey certain tracts of the land. In the spring
of 1855 they made arrangements to take possession of these
lands, with their tenants, stock, farming titensils, &c., &c.
Ituffner then refused to let them have possession. Finding they
could not obtain possession without great and ruin3us delay,

SUPREMAE COURT.
Hogg vs. Ruffher.

a proposition was made to sell or release all their interest in
the lands of the firm, if Ruffner would pay in cash the amount
of money advanced by them. After some negotiations and
calculations, this amount was ascertained, to be about twenty
thousand dollars. They professed a willingness to receive
this amount, if paid in cash, or security given that it should
be actually paid in six months. A conditional deed was proposed, by which the title was to become absolute in case payment wats not made on the day. But counsel advised that,
this would be construed a mortgage, in whatever form of
words it might be drawn. RufFner being unable to furnish such security as was required, this agreement was not
I
Proposals were then made to purchase
signed or executed.
for a larger consideration, to include the farming stock, &c.,
owned by Brice and Birkey, on a credit running ten years.
On these terms they demanded forty thousand dollars, and
Ruffner offered thirty-six thousaud, and finally the amount of
thirty-eight thousand was agreed upon, as sef forth in the contract referred to.
Now the hearsay testimony of witnesses, who relate what
they "understood" from conversations with the parties, or may
have misunderstood to be the contract between them, and
their inference, because the parties had a "settlement," that
therefore the first terms proposed, but not accepted, amounted
to the ascertainment of a debt due, cannot be received to contradict the written contract of the parties and the testimony
of witnesses cognizant of the whole antecedent history of the
transaction. Nor is there any irreconcilable discrepancy between their impressions or "understandings," and the written
agreements and other testimony. They construed the "settlement" of the difficulties, which had long existed between the
parties, to mean a balance of accounts of money due from one
party to the other, and consequently inferred that the increased amount of the securities was for usurious interest for
the forbearance 6f its payment. This was but the usual error
of arriving at a false conclusion by the use of equivocal or
ambiguous terms.

DECEMBER TERM, 1861.
The Island City.

The decree of the court below is, therefore, erroneous, in
so far as it is affected by the assumption that the contract was
usurious.

Decree of the Circuit Court reversed, and recordremitted, with directions to proceed in conformity to the opinion of this court.

.TiiE BARQUE ISLAND CITY-Pierce et al., Claimants; Cromwell

et al., Libellants.
1. Parties who find a vessel derelict at sea, and carry her into port, are

entitled t the usual salvage, without regard to meritorious but un-

successful efforts previously made to rescue her by other parties.
2. To constitute a case of derelict it is not sufficient that the crew have

left temporarily to procure assistance; the abandonment must be
final, without hope of recovery or intention to return.

3.A ship disabled at sea is partially aided by one vessel, further assisted
by another, then left with nobody on board, at anchor, but still in
peril, while better means of rescue are sought for, and in that condition she is discovered by a third vessel, which brings her into a
safe port:-this is a case in which all three of the vessels are entitled to share in the salvage awarded.
4. A right to compensation for salvagepresupposes good faith, meritorious
service, complete restoration, and incorruptible vigilance, so far as
the property is within the reach or under the control of the salvors.
5. If salvors are guilty of embezzlement, whether at sea or in port, or
even after the'property has been delivered into the custody of the
law, their claim for salvage is forfeited to the owners.
6. The operation of this rule does not depend on the amount or value
of the property embezzled; the law visits any embezzlement, though
small, with an entire forfeiture of all claim for salvage.
7. When the embezzlement is secret and purely an individual act, it will
not prejudice co-salvors, who are innocent and ignorant of it; but
all are guilty who consent to, connive at, or conceal it; who enor fail to prevent it when they can.
courage it,
This was a libel for salvage by Hl. B. Cromwell and others,
owners of the steamer Westernport, against the barque Island

