Dec. 1869.]

BIGELoW v. FORREST.

339

Statement of the case.

BIGELOW v. F0RRI ST.
1. The act of March 23d, 1863, "relating to Habeas Cerpus, and regulating
judicial proceedings in certain cases," applies only to suits for acts done
or omitted to be done during the rebellion.
2. It does not apply to actions of ejectment.
8. The act of July 17th, 1862, " to suppress insurrection, to punish treason
and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels, and for
other purposes," and the joint resolution of the same date explanatory
of it, are to be construed together.
4. Under the two thus construed all that could be sold by virtue of a decree
of condemnation and order of sale under the act was a right to the property seized, terminating with the life of the person for whose pffence it
had been seized.
5. The fact that such person owned the estate in fee simple, and that the
libel was against all the right, title, interest, and estate of such person,
and that the sale and marshal's deed professed to convey as much, does
iot change the result.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, the
case being this:
Congress, by an act commonly called the Confiscation Act,
passed July 17th, 1862,* during the late rebellion, " to suppress insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize
and confiscate the property of rebels, and for other purposes," after enacting that treason should be punished with
death, provides:

"Section 5. That to insure the speedy termination of the
present rebellion, it shall be the duty of the President of the
United States to cause the seizure of all the estate and property
. . . of the persons hereinafter named, and to apply and use
the same, and the proceeds thereof, for the support of the army
of the United States."
This 5th section proceeded to name six classes of persons
whose property should be liable to seizure, and first among
them:
"Any person hereafter acting as an officer of the army or
12 Stat. at Large, 589.

340

BIGELOW v. FORREST.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

navy of the rebels in arms against the government of the United
States."
And the last clause of it enacts that
"It shall be a sufficient bar to any suit brought by such person for the possession or use of such property, . . . to allege

and prove that he is one of the persons described in this section."
The act proceeds:
" Section 7. That to secure the condemnation and sale of any
such property, after the same shall have been seized, so that it
shall be made available for the purpose aforesaid, proceedings in
rein shall be instituted in the name of the United States, in any
District Court thereof, or any Territorial court, within which
the . . . property above described may be found; ... which pro-

ceedings shall conform, as nearly as may be, to proceedings in
admiralty or revenue cases; and if said property . . . shall be

found to have belonged to a person engaged in rebellion, . , .
the same shall be condemned as enemies' property, and become
the property of the United States, and may be disposed of as
the court shall decree, and the proceeds thereof paid into the
treasury of the United States for the purposes aforesaid.
" Section 8. That the several courts aforesaid shall have power
to make such orders, establish such forms of decree and sale,
and direct such deeds and conveyances to be executed and delivered by the marshals thereof, where real estate shall be the
subject of sale, as shall fitly and efficiently effect the purposes
of this act, and vest in the purchasers of such property good
and valid titles thereto.
" Section 14. That the courts of the United States shall have
full power to institute proceedings, make orders, and do all other
things necessary to carry this act into effect."
By the latter clause of a "joint resolution explanatory "*
of this act, passed on the same day with it, it was resolved
by Congress that no punishment or proceedings under the
act should be "sq construed as to work a forfeiture of the
real estate of the offender beyond his natural life."
It was a part of the history of this legislation of July 17th,
12 Stat. at Large, 627.

Dec. 1869.]

BIGELOW V. FORREST.
Statement of the case.

1862, that the then President, Mr. Lincoln, immediately after
the passage of the act by both houses of Congress, had prepared the draft of a message objecting to provisions that
might result "in the divesting of title forever," and suggesting or showing that the bill, as Congress had passed it,
was in conflict with that clause of the Constitution, which
ordains that " no attainder of treason shall work corruption
of blood or forfeiture, except during the life of the person
attainted ;"* that before his message was presented to Congress, the joint resolution, above quoted, was passed to remove his objections; and that the President, in a message
of July 17th, 1862, mentioned, that before he was informed
of the resolution, he had prepared the draft of a message,
stating objections to the bill becoming a law; a copy of
which draft he submitted; and also mentioned that, considering the act of Congress, and the joint resolution explanatory thereof, as substantially one, he approved and signed
both.
Under this act, above quoted, as appeared by a case
agreed on and stated, in the nature of a special verdict, the
District Attorney of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, in September, 1863, caused a tract of land
in the eastern part of Virginia, of which a certain French
Forrest (a person acting as an officer of the navy of' the socalled Confederate States, from July 1st, 1862, to April,
1865, and thus one of the persons described in the 5th section of the above quoted act), was seized and possessed in fee,
to be seized. A libel was afterwards, on the 9th November
in the same year, filed on behalf of the United States, in
accordance with the act, in the District Court of the district
just named, " against all the right, title, and interest, and estate
of the said French Forrest, in and to the said tract of land."
The said libel proceeded to judgment in accordance with
the act, and on the 9th of November, 1863, an order of condemonation was made by the court, by which it was decreed that the clerk should issue a venditioni exponas to the
* Art. 8,

8, clause 2.

BIGELOW V. FoRREST.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

marshal, and that the property described in the libel be
sold by the marshal of the district, for cash, to the highest
bidder, and that he execute a deed to the purchaser for the
saIMe.
In pursuance of the decree the land was publicly sold, and.
knocked off on the 10th July, 1864, to one Buntley, to whom
the marshal made a deed reciting the venditioni. Buntley's
rights under the sale became afterwards vested in a certain
Bigelow. Forrest died intestate November 24th, 1866, and his
only child and heir-at-law, Douglass Forrest-whom the cases
agreed on stated was " one of the persons described in said
section 5th, that is to say, who acted as an officer of the army
and navy of the so-called Confederate States, from and after
the passage of the said act till April, 1865,"-brought an
action of ejectmenl, on the 1st of April following, in the Circuit Court of Fairfax County, one of the State courts of Virginia, against Bigelow, to recover the land, averring seizure
in himself on the 1st of January, 1867.
The defendant having pleaded to issue, on the 8th day of
November, 1867, filed his petition for the removal of the
cause into the Circuit Court of the United States, under the
provisions of the 5th section of the act of' Congress of March
3d, 1863,* entitled "An act relating to habeas corpus, and
regulating judicial proceedings in certain cases."
This act thus provides:
"Section 4. That any order of the President or under his authority, made at any time during the existence of the presentrebellion,
shall be a defence in all courts to any action or prosecution, civil
or criminal, pending orto be commenced, for any search, seizure,
arrest or imprisonment made, done, or committed, or acts omitted
to be done under and by virtue of such order or under color of
any law of' Congress.
"Section 5. That if any suit or prosecution, civil or criminal,
has been or shall be commenced in any State court against any
officer, civil or military, or against any other person for any
arrest or imprisonment made, or other trespasses or wrongs done or
* 12 Stat. at Large, 755.

Dec. 1869.]

BIGELOW

V. FORREST.

Statement of the case.

committed, or any act omitted to be done at any time during the present
rebellion, by virtue or under color of any authority derived from
or exercised by or under the President of the United States, or
.in tho
any act of Congress; and the defendant shall ......
court in which such suit or prosecution is pending file a petition,
stating the fact verified by affidavit, for the removal of the cause
for trial at the next Circuit Court of the United States, to be
holden in the district where the suit is pending, and offer good
and sufficient surety for his filing in such court, on the first day of
its session, copies of such process and other proceedings against
it shall then be the duty of the State court to
him, &c.. ....
accept the surety and proceed no further in the cause or prosecution ..... .And copies being filed, as aforesaid, in such court
of the United States, the cause shall proceed therein in the same
manner as if it had been brought in said court by original process."

3igelow's petition for removal complied with the requisitions of this statute, respecting the form of procedure for
removal.
The prayer of the petition was, however, denied, and, by
agreement of the parties, the case already set forth, was
stated in the nature of a special verdict, upon which the
court gave judgment for the plaintiff. A petition was then
presented to the District Court of Appeals praying for a writ
of supersedeas to the judgment, and assigning as errors that
the Circuit Court denied the motion to remove the cause into
the Circuit Court of the United States upon the petition
which had been filed for such removal, and also that the
judgment was not warranted by the facts found in the agreement made in lieu of a special verdict, and that it was against
the law and the evidence. The District Court of Appeals,
however, being of opinion that no error had been committed
in the cause by the Circuit Court of Fairfax County, refused
the supersedeas. A petition was then presented by the defendant to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State, complaining of the action of the District Court of Appeals, and
praying for a writ of supersedeas to the judgment, assigning
the same errors which he had assigned in his petition to the

344

BIGELOW V. FORREST.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the sale.

District Court. The application to the Supreme Court was
unsuccessful. The supersedeas was denied, and thereupon
the present writ of error was sued out. There were two
questions, therefore, presented by the record :
1st. The question whether there was error in the refusal
of the State Circuit Court to allow a removal of the cause
into the Federal court; for if there was not, then obviously
there was no ground for complaint that the Court of Appeals
had refused a supersedeas to the judgment because such removal had not been allowed.
2d. The question whether there was error in the judgment
of the court upon the merits of the case.
Messrs. Poland and Willoughby, for Bigelow, the plaintiff in
error:
1. The court erred in denying the motion to remove the
cause, for the action asserted a trespass or wrong to have been
committed, and so fell within the act of March 3d, 1863.
The act on which the ejectment was founded was at least
committed under color of an act of Congress, and also under
color of an order given by authority of the President of the
United States.
2. The decree of the District Court of the United States
condemning and confiscating all the right, title, and interest of
the original owner, under the act of July 17th, 1862, or Confiscation Act, is binding upon all but appellate courts. Such
decree cannot be collaterally assailed, especially by a State
court, except by showing that such District Court did not
have jurisdiction.
It is agreed that the land was seized under the act. PWoceedings were had "i n accordance with said act." The act
prescribes that the "proceedings shall conform as nearly as
may be to proceedings in admiralty or revenue cases." Regularity in all that was done is of course to be inferred.
By the act all the property is to be seized. No other
seizure would have been proper under the act. A life-estate
could not have been seized, for the act did not direct it, nor
did the owner have a life-estate. The officer could not

Dec. 1869.]

BIGELOW v. FORREST.
Argument in favor of the sale.

make a seizure of separate interests. He is to take the property belonfqbqg to the person.
3. Douglass Forrest, plaintiff below, is admitted to have
been, like his father was, one of the persons described in the
fifth section of the Confiscation Act. The latter part of that
section declares that "it slhall be a sufficient bar to any suit
brought by such person for the possession or the use of such
property, or any of it, to allege and prove that he is one of
the persons described in this section." No amount of argument could show more clearly that Douglass Forrest cannot
maintain this action, than this statement in the law itself.
It is decisive of this whole case.
4. The decree of the District Court, confiscating all the
right, title, and interest of the original owner' was authorized
by the law. This is not a proceeding in the nature of a bill
of attainder. The clause of the Constitution concerning this
subject had reference to bills of attainder which were common to the English Parliament, and had often been resorted
to by several of the colonial legislatures during the revolution,
by which it often happened that the estates of persons were
confiscated after their death, and without conviction or trial,
and often when such estates had passed into the hands of
innocent holders. The true construction of this clause is
that no attainder of treason should work a forfeiture except
during the life of the person attainted; that is, that it should
be done during his life. But this limitation upon bills of
attainder does not apply to proceedings in courts, ii) individual cases, where there are regular trials and formal proceedings in which the individual has full opportunity to defend.
The last clause of the joint resolution, explanatory of the
Confiscation Act, was passed out of superfluous caution to
keep the act within the limits of the Constitution. It employs the very language of the Constitution, except in one
word, which must have been inserted inadvertently in the
hurry attending the passing of many resolutions with this,
upon the last day of a long session. It was inserted because
of the suggestion of the President, and because of his great
desire to keep within the bounds of the Constitution. But

BIGELOW v. FORREST.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the sale.

neither the President nor Congress had fully considered the
effect of the clause of the Constitution.
Any other construction of the real intention of Congress
than that which we give it, would defeat the object of the
bill, which was to raise money for the support of the army.
The life of a traitor, liable to be executed for his crime,
especially if the government could get him into custody,
might be supposed to be very short. In any event the
tenure of a mere life-estate would be so uncertain, that but
very little money could be raised upon it. Such estates
would not be improved, and instead of building up the
country with loyal men upon these estates, as was contemplated, the tendency would be to destroy and impoverish it.
Such a construbtion should not be given to an act of Congress if it is possible to give any other reasonable view of
its intention.
Again, the act has at least equal force with the joint
resolution. Both were approved by the President on the
same day, and became a law at the same time. But the act
says that all the property shall be seized, and the same shall
be condemned. If the construction contended for by the
defendant in error be allowed, then one exactly contradicts
the other. If this be so we must give effect to that parf
of the bill which will be most consistent with its whole object. The word forfeiture is always spoken of as referring
to all the interest a man has in property. It is one of the
modes of absolute conveyance of real estate, and the word is
never used in any other legal sense.*
If any other construction is given to the word forfeiture
than that for which we contend, both in the Constitution
and the act, and which is the universal legal construction of
the word, we shall be led into difficulties which cannot be
solved by any known rules of law. Can it be said to affect
only the life-estate? But the interest of the owner is not
that of a life-estate. He holds in fee. Can the legislature
determine that an estate in fee shall be a life-estate, or that
* 2 Blackstone's Commentaries, 267.

Dec. 1869.]

BIGELOW V. FORREST.
Opinion of the court.

it can be divided into one estate for life and some other interest ? If it does make this separation there must be a remainder. Who is the holder of this? not his heirs, for there
can be no heirs of the living. Besides a remainder must
pass from the grantor at the same time with the creation of
the particular estate, and must be supported by such particular estate, and if this fiils the remainder falls with it. Can
there be any inheritance from the estate which is left in the
original owner? What kind of an estate is it that he has
left which can descend to heirs? What is there left upon
which an inheritance can be built, and what would be the
name of such estate? The first rule of inheritance is, that
the inheritance must be from a person who dies seized of
the estate.
Mr. Conway Robinson, contra,
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
T

le first question presented by the record for our consideration is whether there was error in the refusal of the
State Circuit Court to allow a removal of the cause into the
Circuit Court of the United States; for if there was not,
there is no ground for complaint that the Supreme Court of
Appeals had denied a supersedeas to the judgment because
the removal prayed for had not been allowed.
The act of Congress of March 3d, 1863, under which the
right to remove the cause was claimed, and under which the
right existed, if it existed at all, enacted, in its fifth section,
that if any suit or prosecution, civil or criminal, had been or
should be commenced in any State court against any officer,
civil or military, or against any other person, for any arrest
or imprisonment made, or other trespasses or wrongs done
or committed, or any act omitted to be done, at any time
during the then existing rebellion, by virtue or under color
of any authority derived from or exercised by or under the
President of the United States, or any act of Congress, the
defendant might effect the removal of the cause into the Circuit Court of the United States holden in the district where

BIGELOW V. FORREST.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the suit might be pending. The act prescribed the course
to be pursued in order to stay the proceedings in the State
court and transfer the cause into the Federal tribunal. It
must be conceded that the plaintiff in error complied with
the requisitions of the statute and its supplements respecting
the form of procedure for a removal of his cause. It remains, therefbre, only to inquire whether the action was one
which, under the act of Congress, could be removed. It was
an action of ejectment, commenced on the 1st of April, 1867,
in which the plaintiff averred seizin in himself on the 1st
day of January, 1867, and an entry by the defendant upon
the land on the same day, and a withholding of the possessioh. It might, perhaps, be sufficient to say that the act
complained of, for which the suit was brought, was not, as
described by the statute, "an arrest or imprisonment made,"
or "other trespass or wrong done or committed," or "an act
omitted to be done during the rebellion." It is to suits for acts
done or omitted to be done during the rebellion exclusively
that the statute is applicable, and prior to January 1st, 1867,
the rebellion had ceased to exist.
But we do not rest our judgment upon so narrow ground.
In our opinion, the statute was not intended to apply to actions of ejeetment. It is manifest to us that Congress had in
view only personal actions for wrongs done under authority
or color of authority of the President of the United States,
or of some act of Congress. The fourth section made any
order of the President, or under his authority, a defence in
all courts to any action, civil or criminal, pending or to be
commenced, for any search, seizure, arrest, or imprisonment
made, done, or committed, or acts omitted to be done, under
and by virtue of such order, or under color of any law of Congress. The description of the causes of action mentioned in
the fifth section is slightly different, not quite so detailed and
specific, but it is evident that they were intended to be the
same in both sections, as well as in the seventh, which prescribed a statutory limitation to suits and prosecutions. The
specification, which all of these sections contain, of arrests
and imprisonments, or, as in the fourth section, of searches,

Dec. 1869.]

BIGELOW v. FORREST.

Opinion of the court.

seizures, arrests, and imprisonments, followed by more general words,justifies the inference that the other trespasses and
wrongs mentioned are trespasses and wrongs ejusdem generis,
or of the same nature as those which had been previously
specified. This construction is fortified by the consideration
that the mischief against which the statute was intended to
guard was manifestly the excitement and prejudice so likely,
in times of intense popular feeling, to attend suits in local
courts for personal wrongs; excitement and prejudice which
might render a fair trial difficult, and which might, indeed,
greatly embarrass the government. The same mischiefs, in
the same degree, could hardly have been expected to attend
the trial of possessory actions for real estate. The action
of ejectment is not a personal action, and it appears to us
not to be embraced in any of the classes mentioned in the
fourth, fifth, and seventh sections of the act.
It follows that there was no error in disallowing the removal of this case into the Circuit Court of the United States.
We proceed next to inquire whether there was error in
the judgment of the court upon the merits of the case. The
plaintiff below claimed the land as the sole heir of his father,
French Forrest, who had been the owner down to September
1st, 1863, and who died intestate on the 24th day of November, 1866. The defendant claimed as a purchaser under a
decree of confiscation made by the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, on the
9th day of November, 1863. French Forrest, the father of
the plaintiff, was an officer in the navy of the Confederate
States from July 1st, 1862, until April, 1865. In September,
1863, under the act of Congress of July 17th, 1862, known
as the Confiscation Act, the laud in controversy was seized
as his property, libelled in the District Court of the United
States, and, on the 9th of November next following, a decree of condemnation was entered, and the land was ordered
to be sold by the marshal. Whether there was a venditioni
exponas issued, as was ordered by the court, does not appear
from the case stated (to which alone we can look for the

BfGELOW v. FORREST.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the courL

facts), except that the marshal's deed recites its issue. We
may assume that there was. The property was sold at the
marshal's sale and a deed was made to the purchasers. Subsequently, and before the institution of this suit, the entire
interest acquired by the purchase became vested in Bigelow,
the defendant. But what was that interest ?
The fifth section of the Confiscation Act of July 17th,
1862, enacted that it should be the duty of the President of
the United States to cause the seizure of all the estate and
property, moneys, stocks, credit, and effects, of certain persons described in six classes, and to apply and use the same
and the proceeds thereof for the support of the army. To
one or more of these classes French Forrest belonged. That
it was not intended the mere act of seizure should vest the
property seized in the United States is plain from the provisions of the seventh section, which enacted that to secure
the condemnation and sale of any such property, after the
same shall have been seized, procceedings in rem should be
instituted in a District Court, and that if it should be found
to have belonged to a person engaged in rebellion, or who
had given aid or comfort thereto, it should be condemned
as enemy's property, and become the property of the United
States, and that it might be disposed of as the court might
decree. Concurrently with the passage of this act, Congress
also adopted a joint resolution explanatory of it, whereby it
was resolved that no punishment or proceedings uider the
act should be so construed as to work a forfeiture of the real
estate of the offender beyond his natural life. It is a wellknown fact in our political history that this resolution was
adopted in consequence of doubts which the President entertained respecting the power of Congress to prescribe a forfeiture of longer duration than the life of the offender. Be
this as it may, the act and the resolution are to be construed
together, and they admit of no doubt that all which could,
under the law, become the property of the United States, or
could be sold by virtue of a decree of condemnation and order
of sale, was a right to the property seized, terminating with
the life of the person for whose act it had been seized. It fol-

Dec. 1869.-]

BIGELOW V. FORREST.
Opinion of the court.

lows, then, that the estate acquired by the purchaser at the
marshal's sale expired on the 24th day of November, 1866,
when French Forrest died.
It is argued, however, on behalf of the plaintiff in error,
that the decree of confiscation in the District Court of the
United States is conclusive that the entire right, title, interest, and estate of French Forrest was condemned and
ordered to be sold, and that as his interest was a fee simple,
that entire fee was confiscated and sold. Doubtless a decree
of a court, having jurisdiction to make the decree, cannot
be impeached collaterally; but, under the act of Congress,
the District Court had no power to order a sale which
should confer upon the purchaser rights outlasting the life
of French Forrest. Ifad it done so it would have transcended its jurisdiction. And it attempted no such thing.
The decree made has not that meaning. It is true, the
cause in the District Court was entitled, " United States
against all the right, title, interest, and estate of French
Forrest in and to all that certain piece, parcel, or lot of
land" (describing it); but all this is descriptive, not of quantity of estate, but of the subject of seizure, and that was
land. The proceeding was required by the act of Congress
to be in rei, and the decree condemned, not the estate of
French Forrest, but, using its own words, " the real property mentioned and described in the libel." The marshal
was ordered to sell the said property, the boundaries of
which were given in the title to the decree. Had the pirchasers looked at that decree (and knowledge of' it must be
attributed to them), they would have seen that it was a decree of confiscation of the land, and they were bound to
know its legal effect. It is, therefore, a mistake to argue
that the plaintiff below was permitted to impeach collaterally the decree under which the marshal's sale was made, or
that the judgment of the court in) this case impeaches it.
The argument assumes what cannot be admitted, that the
decree of the District Court established a confiscation reaching beyond the life of French Forrest, for whose offence the
land was condemned and sold.

BIGELOW V. FORREST.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It has been further argued on behalf of the plaintiff in
error, that the plaintiff below was barred against maintaining his suit by the latter clause of the fifth section of the act
of 1862, which enacted that it shall be a sufficient bar to any
suit brought by such person for the possession or use of such
property or any of it, to allege and prove that he is one of
the persons described in the section. The agreed statement
of facts, in lieu of a special verdict, finds that the plaintiff is
one of the persons described in said section fifth; but it immediately explains this by adding, "that is to say, le acted
as an officer of the army and navy of the so-called Confederate States from and after the passage of said act until
April, 1865." Was he, therefore, barred from maintaining
the ejectment ? The land was not seized or condemned for
any act of his. He had no interest in it when it was declared forfeited. He could not have been heard in opposition to the decree of forfeiture. That proceeding was
wholly inter alias partes. If, therefore, he is not at liberty to
assert his claim, he is denied the right to his property without trial, without any procedure in due course of law, and
the practical effect of the bar is to assure to the purchaser
at the marshal's sale the enjoyment of the property after his
right has expired, and to give him by estoppel a greater
estate than he purchased. No construction of the act of
Congress that works such results can be accepted. It is
plainly against the true meaning of the act. We have already remarked that the act and the contemporaneous resolution must be construed together. The latter declares that
the act shall not be construed to work a forfeiture of the
real estate of the offender beyond his natural life. It can
do this neither directly nor indirectly. The punishment inflicted upon him is not to descend to his children. His
heritable blood is not corrupted. It is, of course, necessary
to give such an interpretation to the words of the statute that
they shall not contravene the declared intent of Congress.
And this may be 'done and effect given to every part, by
holding that the persons described in the fifth section, who
are barred from bringing a suit for the possession or use of

Dec. 1869.]

NATIONAL BANK V. COMMONWEALTH.

353

Syllabus.

such property, are those, and those only, whose property
the President has caused to be seized. Such we think is
the meaning of the clause barring suits.
This is all that need be said of the case. It is enough to
show that, in our opinion, none of the errors assigned have
any real existence. We do not care to speculate upon the
anomalies presented by the forfeiture of ]ands of which the
offender was seized in fee, during his life and no longer,
without any corruption of his heritable blood ; or to inquire
how, in such a case, descent can be cast upon his heir, notwithstanding he had no seizin at his death. Such speculations may be curious, but they are not practical, and they
can give no aid in ascertaining the meaning of the statute.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

NATIONAL BANK V. COMMONWEALTH.
I. The right of the States to tax the shares of the National banks reaffirmed.
2. The statute of Kentucky (set forth in the statement of the case), taxing
bank stock, levies a tax on the shares of the stockholders, as distinguished from the capital of the bank invested in Federal securities.
3. This is true, although the tax is collected of the bank instead of the individual stockholders.
4. The doctrine which exempts the instrumentalities of the Federal government from the influence of State legislation, is not founded on any
express provision of the Constitution, but in the implied necessity for
the use of such instruments by the Federal government.
5. It is, therefore, limited by the principle that State legislation, which does
not impair the usefulness or capability of such instruments to serve that
government, is not within the rule of prohibition.
6. A State law requiring the National banks to pay the tax which is rightfully laid on the shares of its stock is valid under this limitation of the
doctrine.
7. On a writ of error to a State court no question will be considered here
which was not called to the attention of the State court.

ERRoR to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky; the case

being this:
voL. ix.

23

