Ex PARTE ZELLNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

Ex

PARTE ZELLNER.

Where an act of Congress gives, as part of the general system of organization of a court, an appeal from any final judgment or decree which may
hereafter be rendered by it, an appeal lies from a judgment rendered
under an act which gives the court jurisdiction to pass, in the usual way,
and not by any special proceedings, upon a class of cases additional to
those of which it already had jurisdiction, even though nothing be said
in such act about an appeal.

ZELLNER filed his petition in this court, and moved for a

mandamus to the Court of Claims to compel them to allow
an appeal from a decree which that court had made against
him. The case was this. The relator was the owner of a
quantity of cotton, stored at Macon, Georgia. In February,
1866, a special agent of the Treasury.Department seized and
carried away the same, and it was afterwards shipped by
another agent of that department to the city of New York,
and there sold by an agent of the government for $3076,
after deducting all charges and expenses. On this state of
facts the relator applied to the Court of Claims for a judgment against the government, in his favor, to this amount.
The court, on full consideration, 'denied the claim and dismissed the petition : whereupon he prayed an appeal from
the decree of dismissal, which was refused. The single
question presented was, whether or not the relator was entitled to an appeal. And this depended upon the construction to be given to certain statutes, as follows: An act of
24th February, 1855,* conferred jurisdiction upon the Court
of Claims "to hear and determine all claims founded upon
any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with the government," "and also
all claims which may be referred to said court by either
house of Congress." An act, of 3d March, 1863,t amending the former act, conferred jurisdiction, in addition to the
above cases, "of all set-offs, counter-claims, claims for dam* 10 Stat. at Large, 612.

t- 12 Id. 765.

Dec. 1869.]

Ex

PARTE ZELLNER.

Statement of the case.

ages, whether liquidated or unliquidated, or other demands
whatsoever, on the part of the government, against any person making claim against the government in said court."
The 5th section of this act of 1863 provided "that either
party may appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States
from any final judgment or decree which may hereafter be rendered in any case by said court wherein the amount in controversy exceeds three thousand dollars, under such regulations as the said Supreme Court may direct."
There was yet, however, another act in the case, the act
providing for the collection of abandoned property in insurrectionary districts, passed March 12th, 1863, under which
the property in question was seized. This statute provided,
in the 3d section, that "any person claiming to have been
the owner of any such abandoned or captured property may,
at any time within two years after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim to the proceeds thereof in the Court
of Claims; and, on proof to the satisfaction of the said court, of
the ownership of said property, of his right to the proceeds
thereof, and that he has never given any aid or comfort to
the present rebellion, receive the residue of proceeds, after
deducting expenses," &c. The act contained no provision for
an appeal from the judgments or decrees of the court. It was
passed by Congress on the same day that the act of 1863,
above referred to, was passed, reorganizing the Court of
Claims, and authorizing it to render judgments against the
government, with the right of either party to appeal to the
Supreme Court, as already stated, though it was not approved
by the President till nine days afterwards.
It was supposed below, as the act concerning abandoned
and captured property conferred upon the Court of Claims
a new subject of jurisdiction in addition to those previously
provided for, and at the same time made no provision for
appeals to the Supreme Court from their judgments or decrees, that no right of appeal existed in respect to either
party, and that the general provision in the 5th section of
the act reorganizing the court, and conferring what may be
called its general jurisdiction, could not be invoked.

EX PARTE ZELLNER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Durant,in support of the motion, argued that the Abandoned Property Act left the practice, remedy, and all jurisdictional conditions, to previous legislation about the Court
of Claims; and that so an appeal existed under the act of
March 3d, 1863, reorganizing that court.
Mr. Hale, special counsel of the United States, eontra, citing
and relying on United States v. Nourse,* and the 1st section
of the act of 25th June, 1868, providing for the allowance of
an appeal by the government from all final judgments of the
Court of Claims adverse to it, whether such judgment shall
have been rendered by virtue of the general or any special
power of the court-contended that no appeal being specially
given by the Abandoned Property Act, and the whole matter
in prodeedings under that act being referred to the satisfaction of the Court of Claims, the case was not embraced by
the general right of appeal given by the previous act of
March 3d, 1863, reorganizing the Court of Claims.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
We cannot agree to the view that the general provision
in the 5th section of the act of March 3d, 1863, reorganizing
the Court of Claims, and conferring what may be called its
general jurisdiction, cannot be invoked in this case. The
language of that section is general : "Either party may appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States from any
final judgment or decree which may hereafter be rendered
in any case by said court." This court was organized as
a special judicial tribunal to hear and render judgment in
cases between the citizen and the government; the subjects
of its jurisdiction were defined in the act, and, generally, the
mode of conducting its proceedings, subject, of course, to
such alterations and changes as Congress from time to time
might see fit to make. The subjects of its jurisdiction could
be enlarged or diminished, but this would not disturb or in
any way affect the general plan or system of its organization.
* 6 Peters, 470, 494.

Dec. 1869.]

Ex

PARTE ZELLNER.

Opinion of the court.

If new or additional subjects of jurisdiction were conferred
the effect would be, simply, to increase the labors of the
court, the cases to be heard and determined under the existing organization.
In the regulation of the jurisdiction of the United States
Circuit and District Courts, by the Judiciary Act of 1789,
the 22d section of that act, together with the 2d section of
the act of 3d March, 1803, provided for writs of error and
appeals from all final judgments or decrees of the District to
Circuit Courts, and from all final judgments and decrees of
the Circuit to the Supreme Court. The jurisdiction of both
these courts has been enlarged, from time to time, since this
organization; and it has never been doubted but that the
judgments or decrees founded upon these new subjects of
jurisdiction were liable to the operation of these general
provisions in respect to writs of error and appeals. The case
of United States v. Ferreira,*illustrates the principle.
The power to hear and adjudicate upon certain claims
under the treaty of 1819, between this government and Spain,
was conferred upon the District Judge of the United States
for the Northern District of Florida. In a case before him
he rendered a decision against the government, from which
the United States District Attorney appealed to the Supreme
Court, which, it was admitted, vould have been regular if
the adjudication had been rendered by the judge as a court,
and the decree, that of the Distript Court. But, it was held,
that the power was not conferred upon the judge in his judicial capacity, sitting as a court, but upon him as a commissioner; and hence, an appeal under the 22d section of
the Judiciary Act would not lie. The same principle is
stated in United States v. Circuit Judges.t
The case of United States v. Nourse, relied upon against
this motion, was a case of special and summary jurisdiction,
under the act of 15th May, 1820, in which the mode of proceeding is particularly pointed out, and in which a special
mode of taking an appeal is prescribed, and in respect to the
* 13 Howard, 40.

t" 3 Wallace, 675.

BARNEY V.

SCHMEIDER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

proceedings before the district judge they could be taken at
chambers as well as in court.
As it respects the act of Congress in question, no special
proceedings are prescribed to the Court of Claims or to the
claimant. Any person claiming to be the owner of abandoned or captured property within the meaning of the act
may, at any time within two years after the suppression
of the rebellion, present his claim for the proceeds to the
Court of Claims, and they are to proceed, in the usual way,
to hear and adjudicate upon the question of ownership and
right to the proceeds, according to the proofs and law of
the case.
We are referred to the 1st section of the act 25th June,
1868,* as bearing upon this motion, which provides for the
allowance of an appeal by the government from all final judgments of the Court of Claims adverse to it, whether such
judgment shall have been rendered by virtue of the general
or any special power of said court. We can only say that
in the view the court have taken of this case this section has
no application to it. The judgment has not been rendered
by the court under any special power conferred; and it is
not pretended that the effect of it is to take away the right
of the claimant to appeal from a judgment under the general
jurisdiction of the court.
MOTION GRANTED.

BARNEY V.

SCIIMEIDER.

1. It is not sufficient to sustain a verdict for the plaintiff, that the testimony
on which it was founded was known to the court by whom the jury was
charged to find such a verdict. The evidence must be submitted to the
jury, or the charge is erroneous.
2. The question, whether certain imported goods were similar to certain
other goods described in the revenue law, for the purposes of customs
duties, is a mixed question of law and fact, and cannot, by the mere
charge of the court, be wholly withdrawn from the jury.
15 Stat. at Large, 75.

