Dec. 1869.]

LATHAM'S AND DEMING'S APPEALS.

145

Statement of the case.

a year of financial revulsion and distress throughout the
greater part, if not the whole, of the commercial world, the
effects of which were still felt in the spring of 1858. In
such a time proof of the practicability of obtaining funds, in
a port so remote, upon the credit of the owner, should be
clear indeed in order to affect a lender upon bottomary with
the duty of inquiry.
On the whole the decree of the Circuit Court must be
and the cause must be remanded to that court
with directions to refer the accounts for repairs and supplies
to one or more commissioners experienced in commerce and
of known intelligence and probity, to ascertain, under the
instructions of the court, what portion of the repairs and
supplies, actually fhrnished to the ship, were really necessary, and for the amount thus ascertained and approved by
the court to enter
REVERSED,

DECREE FOR THE LIBELLANTS.

LATHAM'S AND DEMING'S

APPEALS.

An appellant has a right to have his appeal dismissed notwithstanding the
opposition of the other side.
THiESE were two appeals from the Court of Claims, in suits
against the United States. They had been passed at former
terms, and early at this one. It being alleged by Mr. Hoar,
Attorney-General, that they involved a question of public
interest-to wit, the legal tender question-which he desired, for some reasons which he stated, to have passed on
anew, he asked the court to fix a day at this term for argument upon them, it being stated by him that it was, in his
opinion, most desirable that the matter should not be postponed to the next term. After opposition and some delays
by Messrs. Carlisle and Merryman,Jbr the appellantsrespectively,
who denied that any question of legal tender was presented
in the records, and asserted that the cases, whenever called,
had been passed, on an understanding by themselves, the
VOL. IX.

10

THE JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

counsel of the government, and the court, that if any such
question were properly in them it should abide the decision
to be made in .lepburnv. Griswold,* then under consideration by the court-a day was fixed for the hearing of the
cases. When the day arrived the cases were postponed,
owing to another case being before the court. Being finally
called, Mr. L. S. Chatfield, with whom was Mr. Merryman,for
the appellants respectively, offered a stipulation signed by them
in behalf of their clients, and moved to dismiss the appeals.
The Attorney- General opposed the motion; stating that it was
a surprise to him; that he was now prepared to argue the
cases, and desired to do so.
After some conference on the bench, where the judges did
not seem to be entirely unanimous, the court withdrew for
consultation. On their return, the CHIEF JUSTICE announced it as the unanimous judgment of the court that the
appellants had a right to have their appeals dismissed, and

they were both

DISMISSED ACCORDINGLY.

THE JoHNSo;.
Steamers navigating in crowded channels and in the vicinity of wharves,
must be run and managed with great caution, and with a strict regard
to the established rules of navigation, including that one which requires
them, when approaching from opposite directions, to put their helms to
port. If they are about to attempt any manoeuvre not usual and clearly
safe, such as running in under the bows of another vessel in motion,
they must not only sound their whistle or give the other proper signal,
but before attempting the manoeuvre must be certain also that the signal
was heard and understood by the approaching vessel.

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, in a case of collision, the case being this:
All steamers navigating the crowded waters of the New
York harbor, were bound in 1863 to obey the following
RULES O, NAVIGATION, prescribed originally for the conduct
of passenger steamers, but adopted by other vessels.
APPEAL

The Legal Tender Case, 8' Wallace, 603.

