Dec. 1869.]

HICKMAN V. JONES.
Syllabus.

plainant did all that was in the power of any one to do towards perfecting his claim, he should not be held responsible
for what could not be done.
To this we reply, as we did in the case of Rector v. Ashly,*
that the rights of a claimant are to be measured by the acts
of Congress, and not by what he may or may not be able to
do, and if a sound construction of these acts shows that he
had acquired no vested interest in the land, then, as his
rights are created by the statutes, they must be governed by
their provisions, whether they be hard or lenient. That was
a case also in which it became important to ascertain when
a right to public land became vested, and though it arose
under statutes somewhat different from the general preemption law, the principles asserted there, and in the previous cases of Bagnell v. Broderick,t and Barry v. Gamblej
strongly support our conclusion in the present case.
DECREE REVERSED, and the case remanded, with instructions to
DISMISS THE BILL.

HICKMAN V. JONES ET AL.
1. A prosecution in a so-called "court of the Confederate States of America,"
for treason, in aiding the troops of the United States in the prosecution
of a miltary expedition against the said Confederate States, is a nullity,
and the fact that the tribunal had clothed itself in the garb of the law
gives no protection to persons who, assuming to be its oflicers, were the

instruments by which it acted.
2. Where there is evidence before the jury-whether it be weak or strongwhich does so much as tend to prove the issue on the part of either'side,
it is error if the court wrest it from the exercise of their judgment. It

should be submitted to them under instructions from the court.
8. The fact that a man was himself a traitor against the United States, does
not necessarily prevent his recovering damages against other traitors,

for having maliciously arrested and imprisoned him before a so-called
court of the Confederate States, for being a traitor to these ; the alleged
treason having consisted in his giving aid to the troops of the United

States while engaged in suppressing the rebellion.
*6 Wallace, 142.

t- 18 Peters, 436.

1 3 Howard, 32.

HICKMAN V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

ERROlR to the District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama, in which court Hickman, the plaintiff in error,
sued Jones, Moore, Regan, Coltart, Clay, and others, defendants in error, for maliciously causing him to be arrested, imprisoned, and prosecuted for a criminal offence, without
probable cause.

Mr. R.Johnson, for the plaintiff in error; Messrs. Walker and
Gordon, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The facts disclosed in the record, so far as it is necessary
to state them, are as follows:
During the late civil war the rebel government established
a court known as the "District Court of the Confederate
States of America for the Northern District of Alabama."
In that court the plaintiff in error was indicted for treason
against the Confederate States. The indictment alleged that
troops of the United States were in the Northern District of
Alabama engaged in a hostile enterprise against the Confederate States, and that Hickman "did traitorously then
and there assemble and continue with the said troops of the
said United States in the prosecution of their said expedition
against the Confederate States; and then and there, with
force and arms and with the traitorous intention of cooperating with the said troops of the United States in effecting the object of the said hostile expedition, did array and
dispose himself with them in a hostile and warlike manner
against the said Confederate States; and then and there,
with force and arms, in pursuance of such his traitorous intentions, he, the said James Hickman, with the said persons,
so as aforesaid assembled, armed, and arrayed in manner
aforesaid, wickedly and traitorously did levy war against the
said Confederate States." Upon this indictment a warrant
was issued for the arrest of Hickman. He was arrested and
imprisoned accordingly. He applied to the defendant, Jones,
who assumed to act as judge of the court, to be allowed to

Dec. 1869.]

HICKMAN V. JON ES.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

give bail. Jones rejected the application and remanded him
to prison. He was subsequently tried, acquitted, and discharged. He alleges that the proceeding was without probable cause and malicious. Moore was the clerk of the pretended court. The name of Regan is signed to the indictment
as district attorney, and he conducted the trial. Robert W.
Coltart was deputy marshal, and Clay was the editor and
publisher of the "Huntsville Confederate," a newspaper
through which it was alleged he incited the prosecution by
means of malicious attacks upon Hickman designed to produce that result. The other defendants were members of
the grand jury by which the indictment was found. Testimony was given tending to show that the plaintiff sympathized with the rebellion and participated in it while the
rebel power predominated in North Alabama, both before
and after its first invasion by the forces of the United States.
The court instructed the jury, among other things, as follows:
"If, in the ease at thd bar, you believe that the acts and
speeches of the plaintiff, upon which the defendants rely to
prove his complicity with the rebellion, were the result of anything less than a fear that if he did not so speak and act, his
life or his liberty or his property would be saerificed to his silence or his omission, you will find a verdict for the defendants.
"If, on the other han'd, you believe that these acts of apparent
complicity with the rebellion were performed by the plaintiff
under the influence of an honest and rational apprehension that
to do otherwise would expose him to persecution or prosecution,
or to loss of life, liberty, or property, and that notwithstanding
these acts of affiliation with the rebel community in which he
lived, he was always at heart honestly and truty loyal to the
government of his country, he is entitled to your verdict."
The jury were further instructed that it was their duty to
acquit the defendants, R. W. Coltart and Clay. Exceptions
were duly taken by the plaintiff, and the case is brought here
for review.
We have to complain in this case, as we do frequently,

HiCKMAN V.

JONES.

[Sup., Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the manner in which the bill of exceptions has been prepared. It contains all the evidence adduced on both sides,
and the entire charge of the court. This is a direct violation
of the rule of this court upon the subject. We have looked
into the evidence and the charge only so far as was necessary
to enable us fully to comprehend the points presented for
our consideration-thuk in effect reducing the bill to the
dimensions which the rule prescribes. No good result can
follow in any case from exceeding this standard. Our labors
are unnecessarily increased, and the case intended to be presented is not unfrequently obscured and confused by the
excess.
The rebellion out of which the war grew was without
any legal sanction. In the eye of the law, it had the same
properties as if it had been the insurrection of a county
or smaller municipal territory against the State to which it
belonged. The proportions and duration of the struggle
did not affect its character. Nor was there a rebel government defacto in such a sense as to give any legal efficacy to
its acts. It was not recognized by the National, nor by any
foreign government. It was not at any time in possession
of the capital of the nation. It did not for a moment displace the rightful government. That government was always
in existence, always in the regular discharge of its fhnctions,
and constantly exercising all its military power to put down
the resistance to its authority in the insurrectionary States.
The union of the States, for all the purposes of the Constitution, is as perfect and indissoluble as the union of the integral parts of the States themselves; and nothing but revolutionary violence can, in either case, destroy the ties which
hold the parts together. For the sake of humanity, certain
belligerent rights were conceded to the insurgents in arms.
But the recognition did not extend to the pretended government of the Confederacy. The intercourse was confined to
its military authorities. In no instance was there intercourse
otherwise than of this character. The rebellion was simply
an armed resistance to the rightful authority of the sovereign.

Dec. 1869.]

HIcKMAN

V. JONES.

Opinion of the court.

Such was its character in its rise, progress, and downfall.
The act of the Confederate Congress creating the tribunal
in question was void. It was as if it were not. The court
was a nullity, and could exercise no rightful jurisdiction.
The forms of law with which it clothed its proceedings gave
no protection to those who, assuming to be its officers, were
the instruments by which it acted. In the case before us,
trespass would have been the appropriate remedy; but the
authorities are clear that case also may be maintained. Each
form of action is governed by its own principles. It is needless to consider them, as none of the exceptions taken relate
to that subject. Our opinion will be confined to those which
have been specifically mentioned.
1. The court instructed the jury to acquit the defendants,
J. W. Clay and R. W. Coltart.
There was some evidence against both of them. Whether
it was sufficient to warrant a verdict of guilty was a question
for the jury under the instructions of the court. The learned
judge mingled the duty of the court and jury, leaving to
the jury no discretion but to obey the direction of the court.
Where there is no evidence, or such a defect in it that the
law will not permit a verdict for the plaintiff to be given,
such an instruction may be properly demanded, and it is the
duty of the court to give it. To refuse is error. In this
case the evidence was received without objection, and was
before the jury. It tended to maintain, on the part of the
plaintiff, the issue which they were to try. Whether weak
or strong, it was their right to pass upon it. It was not
proper for the court to wrest this part of the case, more than
any other, from the exercise of their judgment. The instruction given overlooked the line which separates two separate
spheres of duty. Though correlative, they are distinct, and
it is important to the right administration of justice that they
should be kept so. It is as much within the province of the
jury to decide questions of fact as of the court to decide questions of law. The jury should take the law as laid down by
the court and give it full effect. But its application to the
facts-and the facts themselves-it is for them to determine.

HICKMAN

V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the coult.

These are the checks and balances which give to the trial by
jury its value. Experience has approved their importance.
They are indispensable to the harmony and proper efficacy
of the system. Such is the law. We think the exception
to this instruction was well taken.*
2. The other instruction to be considered was, substantially, that if the plaintiff had himself been a traitor he
could not recover against those who had been instrumental
in his arrest, imprisonment, and trial for treason against the
Confederacy-the treason alleged to consist in the aid which
he had given to the troops of the United States while engaged in suppressing the rebellion.
As matter of law, we do not see any connection between
the two elements of this proposition. Giving aid to the troops
of the United States, by whomsoever given, and whatever the
circumstances, was a lawful and meritorious act. If the plaintiff had before co-operated with the rebels there was a locus
penitentie, which, whenever he chose to do so, he had a right
to occupy. His past or subsequent complicity with those
engaged in the rebellion might affect his character, but
could not take away his legal rights. It certainly could not,
as matter of law, give impunity to those by whose instrumentality he was seized, imprisoned, and tried upon a capital
charge for serving his country. Such a justification would
be a strange anomaly. Evidence of treasonable acts on his
part against the United States was alien to the issue before
the jury. To admit it, was to put the plaintiff on trial as
well as the defendants. The proofs upon the question thus
raised might be more voluminous than those upon the issue
made by the pleadings. The trial might be indefinitely prolonged. The minds of the jury could hardly fail to be darkened and confused as to the real character of the case and
the duty they were called upon to discharge. The guilt of
Aylwin v. Ulmer, 12 Massachusetts, 22; New York Fire Insurance
Company v. Walden, 12 Johnson, 613; Utica Insurance Company v. Badger,
3 Wendell, 102; Tufts v. Seabury, 11 Pickering, 140; Morton v. Fairbanks,
lb. 368; Fisher v. Duncan, 1 Hening and Munford, 562; Schuchardt v. Aliens,

1 Wallace, 369.

Dec. 1869.]

STAR OF HOPE.
Syllabus.

the plaintiff, if established, could in no wise affect the legal
liability of the defendants; nor could the fact be received in
mitigation of damages. It is well settled, that proof of the
bad character of the plaintiff is inadmissible for any purpose
in actions for malicious prosecution.* All the evidence upon
this subject disclosed in the bill of exceptions was incompetent, and should have been excluded from going to the
jury. This instruction also was erroneous.
Judgment REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the court
below, with an order to issue a venire de novo.

STAR OF HOPE.
1. To constitute a voluntary stranding of a vessel it is not necessary that
there should have been a previous intention to destroy or injure the
vessel, nor is such intention supposed to exist. It is sufficient that the
vessel was selected to suffer the common peril in the place of the whole
of the associated interests, in order that the remainder might he saved.
2. The stranding is voluntary whenever the will of man does in some degree
contribute thereto, though the existence of the particular reef or bank
on which the vessel grounds was not before known to the master, and
though he did not intend to strand the vessel thereon; provided it sufficiently appear that in making the exposure of the vessel he was aware
that stranding was the chief risk incurred by him, and that it was not
wholly unexpected by him.
8. These principles applied to the facts of this case, and the stranding held
to be voluntary, so as to render the damage to the ship thereby caused,
and all costs and expenses consequent thereon, a subject of general
average contribution.
4. As a general rule the contributory value of the ship, when she has received no extraordinary injuries during the voyage, and has not been
repaired on that account, is her value at the time of her arrival at the
termination of the voyage. But where, as in this case, the ship has sustained injuries during the voyage and undergone repairs, her contributory value is her worth before such repairs were made. In the absence
of other proof on this point, her value in the policy of insurance at the
port of departure is competent evidence. From this, however, should
be made a just and reasonable deduction for deterioration.
* 1 Greenleaf's Evidence,

55.

