Dec. 1869.]

WORTHY V. THE COMMISSIONERS.
Statement of the case.

WORTHY V. TItE COMMISSIONERS.
1. Where a party claims below wholly in virtue of the laws of a State and
the highest court of the State decides that under these laws the claimant
has no case, no writ of error lies here under the 26th section.
2. Allegations by counsel here, and attempts to show that the plaintiff's
right under the Constitution of the United States, has been infringed
by the decision, do not help the case, if the right has not been specially
set up in the court below and there decided against.

ON motion to dismiss, the case was this:

Section 3 of the 14th amendment to the Constitution ordains that no person shall hold office under any State, who
having previously taken an oath as an executive officer of any
State to support the Constitution of the United States, has
engaged in rebellion against the same, or given aid and cornfort to the enemies thereof; and a statute of North Carolina
enacts that no one disqualified under that amendment should
hold office in North Carolina.*
These provisions being in force, it appeared that Worthy,
the plaintiff in error, having received a majority of the votes
cast at an election of sheriff, held in Moore County, North
Carolina, presented his bond to the defendants in error, who
were commissioners of the county, and offered to quality
under the law of the State. A majority of the commissioners refused to receive his bond or permit him to qualify
as sheriff, on the ground that he had been sheriff of the
county before the rebellion; that the office of sheriff was an
executive office; that Worthy, as former sheriff, had taken
an oath to support the Constitution and had afterwards aided
in the rebellion, and that he was thus disabled from holding
the office by the already mentioned 14th amendment, and
was, moreover, prohibited, because of that disability, by an
act of the legislature of North Carolina, from qualifying
under that act, and from holding office in that State.
Worthy thereupon filed his petition in one of the State
Acts of 1868, chapter i,

8.

612

WORTHY v. THE COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against dismissal.

courts of North Carolina, for a mandamus against the commissioners. His petition set forth that the laws of North
Carolina created the office of sheriff; that it provided a particular mode of election; that by such mode he was duly
elected; that it was necessary to give a certain bond, and
that he was ready to give the bond, and was therefore entitled. But he did not claim or set up in any way any title,
right, privilege, or exemption, under any clause of the Constitution, or under any statute or treaty of the United States,
or commission held under them.
The decision of the county commissioners, rejecting him,
was affirmed by the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State, and thereupon lie took this writ of error, conceiving
the case to fall within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,
which gives this court a right to review the judgments of
the highest State courts, in certain cases, including thoseWhere the validity of a statute or an authority exercised
tnder any State, on the ground of their being repugnant to
the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, is
drawn in question, and the decision is in favor of such their
validity; or" Where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of, or
commission held under, the United States, and the decision
is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially
set up or claimed by either party, under such clause of the
said Constitution, treaty, statute, or commission."
Mr. Boyce now moved to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction, on the ground that the plaintiff in error had not
set up below any claim under the Constitution, laws, or authority of the United States, but on the contrary had claimed
exclusively under the law of North Carolina.
Mr. Scheffer, contra:
The 1st section of the 14th amendment of the Constitution
of the United States, declares* that, "No State shall make
Article xiv,

1.

Dee. 1869.]

WORTHY v. THE COMMISSIONERS.
Opinion of the court.

or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States."
The Supreme Court of North Carolina has decided that a
sheriff is an executive officer, and that the right to hold
office by a person formerly a sheriff; and afterwards engaged
in rebellion, is taken away by the 3d section of the 14th
amendment. This is an assault upon an immunity and privilege granted to us by the 1st section of that same amendment. We have a right to know how far the guaranty of
the 1st section extends; to complain at Washington that it
has been insufficiently administered at Raleigh. Cases involving rights that are protected by the Constitution, conic
within the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, no
matter whence the rights may spring.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is manifest that this court has no jurisdiction of the
present cause. There was no decision by the Supreme Court
of North Carolina against the validity of any treaty or act
of Congress, or authority exercised under the United States;
nor in fivor of the validity of a statute of; or authority exercised under a State, and alleged to be repugnant to the
Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States.
It is true that, in the brief of the counsel for the plaintiff,
it is urged that the right of the plaintiff is protected by the
1st section of the 14th amendment; but this right does not
appear to have been set up, or specially claimed in the State
court; and this is essential to jurisdiction here.
We have no authority, therefore, to examine the question
presented by the record; but must allow the motioi of the
defendants in error, and dismiss the cause for
WANT OF JURISDICTION.

