Dec. 1869.]

DoWNHAM V. ALEXANDRIA.

Statement of the case.

DOWNHAM V. ALEXANDRIA.
1. The act of the Virginia legislature of February 27th, 1867, by which it
was enacted that appeals to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State
from the State District Courts should not be allowed when these last
fully affirmed the judgments of the County Courts, unless the matter in
controversy exceeded $1000, is not inconsistent with the provision in the
Constitution of 1864, which excluded appeals from the said District
Courts to the Supreme Court, except in certain cases specified, unless
the matter in controversy amounted to $500.
2. Where the State court in which a judgment in a suit is given is the
highest court of law or equity in the State in which a decision in that
suit can be had, a right of review exists here under the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act (if the case be otherwise one for review here under
that section), although that court may not be actually the highest court
of law or equity in the State.

ON motion to dismiss. The case was this:
The city of Alexandria, in Virginia, on a suit brought by
it, in one of the county courts of the State, against a certain
Downham, a dealer in liquors, had obtained a judgment for
two hundred dollars; the amount of a tax imposed by the
city on dealers of his class. Downham took the case by
appeal to the Fourth Judicial District Court of the State,
in which the judgment of the county court was "wholly
affirmed." He the brought the case from that court directly here, conceiving that he had a right so to bring it
here, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, which
gives a writ of error from this court (in a certain class of
cases within which the present suit was assumed to come),
when a judgment has been given in the highest court of law
or equity of. the State "in'which a decision in the suit can
be had."
There was confessedly a higher court of law and equity
in the State than the court last-named, to wit, the Supreme
Court of Appeals; but Downham did not take the case to it;
assuming that by the constitution) and laws of Virginia Ie
could not properly do so; and that being thus unable to take
it there, he had a right to come directly from the intferior
court.

DOWNHAM V. ALEXANDRIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The questions, therefore, +ere: °
1. The chief one-whether under the constitution and
laws of Virginia he was correct in assuming that he had no
right to go to a higher court than that of the Fourth Judicial
District? And if he was correct in this,
2. The question-one not much disputed- whether he
could bring the case here from it, there being a higher court
of law and equity in the State?
At the time when the writ of error was allowed and issued,
and service of citation acknowledged, the constitution in
force in Virginia was that of 1864. That constitution excluded from the appellate jurisdiction jin civil cases, of the
Supreme Court of Appeals, all suits where the matter in
controversy, exclusive of costs, was less than five hundred
dollars, except certain specified controversies, among which
were distinctly mentioned controversies concerning the right
of a corporation to levy tolls or taxes. The case before the
court being a controversy concerning the right of the corporation of Alexandria to impose and collect a tax upon
plaintiffs in error, and, therefore, a controversy within the
very terms of the exception, might have been taken to the
Supreme Court of Appeals if nothing else had interposed.
An act of the legislature of Virginia, however, passed February 27th, 1867, provided that no appeal to the Supreme
Court should be allowed in any case from a judgment of the
District Court wholly affirming the judgment of the Circuit
Court, and where the matter in controversy did not exceed

one thousand dollars.
Mr. D. L. Smoot, in support of the motion to dismiss, contended that the act in question was unconstitutional. Messrs.
G. W. Brent and C. W. Wattles, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of February, 1867, extends the limitation upon
appeals to all cases where original judgments of the Circuit
Court are fully sustained by the judgment of the District
Court, and where the amount in controversy does not exceed

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ADAMS.
Statement of the case.

the legislative limit. And the case before us, though not
excluded from the appellate jurisdiction of the Court of
Appeals by the Constitution, seems to be excluded by this
act. The only question, then, is whether this act of the
legislature is in conflict with the constitution of the State.
And we perceive no conflict. The legislature, then, having
thought fit to make the judgment of the District Court in
this case final and without appeal, that court is, for this case,
the highest court in which the decision could be made; and
the writ of error is, therefore, warranted by the act of Congress, and regular. Motion to dismiss must be
DENIED.

UNITED STATES

V. ADAMS.

1. Certiorari,being a writ properly used to bring up to the Court of Error,
on an allegation of diminution, outbranches of the record, or other documents and writings in the court below which have not been previously

certified or sent, is not a proper thing to be asked for where it is desired
to have the Court of Claims supply certain supposed defects in its conclusions deducible from the evidence before it.
2. The proper method of obtaining such a finding is an order of this court,
on motion duly made, directed to the Court of Claims, requiring it to
make return as to the existence or non-existence of such facts. But this

court cannot give the Court of Claims any directions as to what finding
it shall make, or how it shall proceed to make up its finding on the
points sought to have certified.

ON motion for certiorari.

In this suit, which was an appeal from the Court of Claims,
that court, in accordance with the rules adopted by this court
to regulate appeals from the latter court, had sent up a finding of the facts and their conclusions of law on the said facts,
on which they founded their decree.
Mr. Talbot, on behalf of the United States, now applied for a
certiorarito require the said court to certify as to the existence or proof of certain other facts which were not contained in their original finding and return.

