THE PORTSMOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE PORTSMOUTH.
1. A captain who, in the night and in a fog, enters a port, supposing it to
be his port of destination, enters at his peril of its being so, unless there
have been some necessity for his seeking a port. If there have been
proper ground to doubt whether the port was the one which he supposed
it to be, and lie could safely wait outside till morning, or could signal a
tug-boat to pilot him in, he should not proceed till he can see or know
where he is going.
2. A loss of a part of the cargo by a jettison resorted to in order to lighten
the boat after she had run aground in consequence of violating such
a dictate of prudence, is not a loss "by dangers of the navigation"
within the meaning of a bill of lading having an exception in those
V
terms.
8. A vessel proceeding in the night and in a fog into port, is bound to proceed at a low rate of speed.
4. If a vessel is stranded, it is the duty of the captain to take all possible
care of the cargo. If the vessel must be lightened before she can get
off, he should get lighters, if possible, and land it, not make a jettison
of it.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of Illinois; the case was this:
The Salt Company of Onondaga shipped at Buffalo, on the
propeller Portsmouth, a large quantity of salt for Chicago,
under a bill of lading in the usual form, but containing an
exception of the dangers of the navigation.
On the 9th of October, 1866, the propeller, with the salt on
board, reached Fox Island, in Lake Michigan, and about seven
o'clock in the evening of the same day left it, bound directly
for Chicago, using both sail and steam. The weather was
foggy, and the wind was blowing from the northeast, with a
considerable sea. The fog continued during that night and
all the next day, and the wind blew freshly, though not so
as to prevent the propeller's carrying her foresail. Nothing
particular occurred until about sunset of the evening of the
10th, when, as described by the master, the fog lifted for a
minute, and a loom of the land on the west side of the lake
was discovered, and the master, mate, and engineer "could
just see'a church-steeple and a house, as near as they could

Dec. 1869.]

THE PORTSMOUTH.

Statement of the case.

calculate." The master did not know the distance from
Fox Island to Racine, but consulting with the engineer as
to the quantity of steam carried, and referring to his own
expectation of the time when he expected to be that far on
his course, which he had fixed at six o'clock in the evening,
he concluded that the place was Racine, in Wisconsin. Acting upon that conclusion the propeller was continued on a
course generally south by east half-east, and southeast, then
south by west, and southwest, and finally west, until a whistle
was heard, which the master took to be that of a propeller
at the Chicago pier. This must have been at about three
o'clock in the morning of the 11th. Soon after a white light
was discovered, and this was assumed to be the Chicago
light; the light at port being a white one, though not the
only white one on the west coast of the lake. The sound
of cars running, and of car-whistles was also heard, which
the master inferred to be caused by making up trains at
Chicago. Accordingly he attempted to enter the port, but
when the propeller came very near the pier it was discovered
not to be the pier of Chicago, and the vessel was immediately backed. It was, however, too late. She grounded
and held fast. According to the testimony of the second
engineer, who was in the engine-room managing the steamer,
the vessel, until three minutes before his getting the bell
to stop, had been running at full speed, which was between
eight and nine miles an hour. The captain and first engineer-this last, until three minutes before the bell to stop
was rung having been on deck with the captain-testified
that they were not running so fast, that she was " under
check," the captain stating that she was not running more
than from three to four miles an hour. The master testified
that although the weather was rough, he might safely have
remained out in the lake till daylight, or might have signalled for a tug to take them in, and that he would not have
gone in had he not, in common with the other officers, certainly believed that the place was Chicago. After the boat
was found to be aground and fast the clerk was at once sent
ashore and dispatched to Chicago for a tug. Meanwhile the

THE PORTSMOUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

propeller remained at the place where she had taken the
bottom, which proved to be Waukegan, some thirty or forty
miles from Chicago, until the tug arrived late in the afternoon of the 11th. No lighter was sent for, and no efforts
were made to save the cargo, but after the arrival of the tug
about one thousand barrels of the salt were thrown overboard
to lighten the propeller, though the wind had then subsided,
and she was apparently in no danger. The next morning
she was got off, and she proceeded to her port of destination,
where the residue of the salt was landed. The Salt Company now filed a libel in the District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois, for the salt that had been thrown overboard and was undelivered. The propeller set up that it had
been lost in the perils of navigation-thrown over to save
the vessel and residue-and was so a case for general average. The District Court decided otherwise, and the Circuit
Court affirmed its decree. The owners of the propeller
now brought the case here.
2Mr. Comstock, for the plaintiff in error. No opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The contract of the appellant was to deliver the two thousand barrels of salt at Chicago to the consignee named, "the
dangers of lake navigation only excepted," and whether the
fhilure to deliver was caused by the excepted dangers is now
the only question. A loss by a jettison occasioned by a
peril of the sea is, in ordinary cases, a loss by perils of the
sea. But it is well settled that, if a jettison of a cargo, or a
part of it, is rendered necessary by any fault or breach of
contract of the master or owners of the vessel, the jettison
must be attributed to that fault, or breach of contract, rather
than to the sea peril, though that may also be present, and
enter into the case.* This is a principle alike applicable to
exceptions in bills of lading and in policies of insurance.t
Though the peril of the sea may be nearer in time to the
Lawrence et al. v. Minturn, 17 Howard, 100.
t

General Mutual Insurance Co. v. Sherwood, 14 Id. 366.

Dec. 1869.]

THE PORTSMOUTH.
Opinion of the court.

disaster, the efficient cause, without which the peril would
not have been incurred, is regarded as the proximate cause
of the loss. And there is, perhaps, greater reason for applying the rule to exceptions in contracts of common carriers
than to those in policies of insurance, for in general, negligence of the insured does not relieve an underwriter, while
a common carrier may not, even by stipulation, rtlieve himself from the consequences of his own fault.*
In view of this recognized construction given to such
clauses in bills of lading as "perils of the sea excepted," or,
as in this case, "the dangers of lake navigation only excepted," it is plain that the appellant has shown no sufficient
excuse for the failure to deliver the salt to the consignee of
the libellant.
It is manifest that the master was first at fault in mistaking the land which he dimly saw on the evening of the
10th fbr Racine. He was, in fact, then from thirty to forty
miles farther from Chicago than he supposed he was. His
supposition was unwarranted by the evidence he bad. He
thought the place was Racine, not because of its appearance
when he saw the steeple and the house. His view of those
objects was very indistinct. His language is, "We could just
see a church-steeple and a house, as near as we could calculate." The outline of the shore he does not pretend to have
seen, or anything which, by its appearance, justified his conclusion that he was opposite Racine. His sole reasons for
assuming that such was his position are to be found in his
having consulted with his engineer about the quantity of
steam carried, and in his own estimate of the time when he
expected to reach that place. At best, therefore, his conclusion was based upon a conjecture. Considering that the
voyage from Fox Island had been through a thick fog, and
in a heavy sea; that the wind had not been quite steady;
that the speed of the propeller had not been measured by
the log, or by observations; and considering also another
fact, to which the master testifies, that he did not know the
* Vide Propeller Niagara v. Cordes et al., 21 Howard, 29.

THE PORtTSMOUTH!.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

distance from Fox Island to Racine, it seems to us his conjecture that the propeller was opposite Racine at sunset of
the 10th was no reliable guide to the subsequent conduct
of the voyage. It was, however, accepted as a guide, and it
led directly to the disastrous fault afterwards committed of
mistaking Waukegan for Chicago. The master, judging
that le bad steamed far enough from Racine, readily concluded that the light he saw, and the whistle and running
cars he heard were at the place of his ultimate destination,
and without any careful verification of his opinion he attempted to enter the port. The light he saw, it is true, was
a white light, like that at Chicago. But there were other
white lights on the west shore of the lake. Waukegan had
one. The whistle and the running cars were not peculiarities at Chicago. There was enough in his situation to
awaken doubt, and to induce caution. We think that, in
his circumstances, the attempt he made to enter the port
was inexcusably rash. It was not a necessity. His duty to
the owners, and still more to the freighters, was to exercise
the highest prudence, as well as skill, to guard against loss.
According to his testimony ie might safely have remained
out in the lake until morning, or he might have signalled
for a tug to take the propeller in. It was his duty to do one
or the other. He did neither, He testifies he would have
gone out into the lake and waited until daylight had he not
supposed he had found a harbor. Ile had no right to act
upon such a supposition, which at best was no more than a
careless conjecture. He admits, what must be evident, that
he could have seen plainer had he waited till daylight before
attempting to enter, and that he might have known the pier
was Waukegan pier. lie thinks a tug could have found the
propeller had he signalled, but he neglected to signal. The
second engineer also testifies that the propeller attempted
to enter the port at her usual speed of eight and a half or
nine miles an hour, which, if the statement be correct, was
much too great. It is true, his statement vaies f-on the
account given by the master and chief engineer; but the
chief engineer and the master were both upon deck, and

Dec. 1869.]

THE PROTECTOR.
Syllabus.

the second engineer was in immediate charge of the engine
until within three minutes of th e time when the signal was
given to stop, and even during those three minutes the
chief engineer was outside of the engine-room. The second
engineer must, therefore, have best known at what rate of
speed the propeller was moving. In view of all this, we
have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion, that the
loss sustained by the libellants is to be attributed to the
fault of the carrier, and not to the excepted dangers of lake
navigation.
Were it necessary, it would be easy to show that the conduct of the master after the vessel was stranded was entirely
unjustifiable. It was his duty even then to take all possible
care of the cargo. le was bound to the utmost exertion to
save it. Losses arising from dangers of navigation, within
the meaning of the exception in the bill of lading, are such
only as happen in spite of the best human exertions, which
cannot be prevented by human skill and prudence.* But
in this case no effort was made to save the cargo. The salt
was not thrown overboard until after the arrival of the tug.
The fog had then lifted. The wind and the sea had subsided. It is evident the salt might then have been saved,
if it could not have been removed before.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE PROTECTOR,
1

The doctrine declared in Hanger v. Abbott (6 Wallace, 532), that statutes
of limitations do not run during the rebellion against a party residing
out of the rebellious States, so as to preclude his remedy for a debt
against a person residing in one of them, held applicable to the Judiciary Acts of 1789 and 1803, limiting the right of appeal from the inferior Federal courts to this court, to five years from the time when the
decree complained of was rendered.
* Propeller Niagara v. Cordes et al., cited suapra, 685.

