Dec. 1869.]

Ex

PARTE MORRIS AND JOHNSON.

605

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Ex

PARTE MORRIS

AND JOHNSON.

1. It is the duty of a court below to obey and give effect to the mandate of
this court, as far as practicable. Where the mandate is for restitution
of moneys, recovered by persons under a decree of the court below, all
persons within the reach of the territorial jurisdiction of that court
should be required by the proper order to refund what they have received. If they fail to do so, they should be dealt with promptly, by
attachment, for contempt. This in no wise interferes with common law
remedies, except that the parties entitled to restitution cannot be paid
twice.
2. If a party within the jurisdiction is in possession of any part of the fund
ordered to be paid back, which was received by another who is out of
the jurisdiction, the rights of the petitioners follow the money into his
Such party, within the jurisdiction,
hands, and he is liable for it.
should, on an allegation of his possession, be required to disclose the facts
touching that subject, and if he is in such possession, he should be required to restore the money so received.
3. Where a marshal, who is bound under a mandate from this court to make
restitution, returns that he has deposited the money in bank pursuant to
directions from the United States, the circumstances of the deposit
should be inquired into. If the money was deposited, pursuant to instructions from the proper authority, he is exonerated, and in that event
the proper certificate should be given by the court to the petitioners,
and they be left to seek redress in the appropriate manner. The court
has no authority to order the United States to refund.

THIS was a petition presented by Mr. P. Phillips, in behalf
of Morris and Johnson, for a writ of mandamus against Richard Busteed, judge of the District Court of the United States
for the Middle District of Alabama.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the facts, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The United States filed an information in the District
Court for the Middle District of Alabama, against certain
bales of cotton, which it was alleged were liable to seizure
and confiscation, and had come into the possession of the
petitioners. The court entered a personal decree against
them for the value of the cotton. They brought the case
here by appeal. This court reversed the judgment and remanded the cause, with directions to the District Court "to
cause restitution to be made to the appellants of whatever

606

Ex PARTE MORRIS AND JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

they have been compelled to pay under that decree." A
mandate to this effect was sent to the District Court.* Nothing effectual hasl been done under it. The petition, which
is the foundation of this proceeding, was filed in this court.
The district judge waived the issuing of a rule to show cause,
and submitted a return by which the following facts appear.
After the rendition of the decree the judge made an order
directing the money, when collected, to be distributed as
therein prescribed. Five per cent. was to be paid to F. Q.
Smith, the attorney of the United States; one per cent. to
John Hardy, the marshal; one per cent. to E. C. F. Blake,
the clerk of the court; and one-half of the entire amount,
less costs and charges, to E. R. McCrosky, the informer.
The other half was to be held in the registry of the court,
subject to the order of the Secretary of the Treasury. Aft.
fa. was issued on the decree, and the full amount collected
from the petitioners. The mandate of this court was presented to the District Court, and proceedings instituted to
enforce the order of restitution. Written answers were filed
by the parties who were brought before the court.
McCrosky, the informer, was beyond the limits of the
State of Alabama. He did not appear or answer. The district attorney admitted that he had received the amount adjudged to him; but insisted that he had a right to hold it.
In his oral examination before the court it was proposed
to show by his testimony that he had received a large part
of the money paid to the informer. This was objected to by
his counsel, and the objection was sustained by the court.
The clerk answered that he had received nothing under
the order.
The marshal answered that after paying Smith and McCrosky, he had deposited the residue, less the costs of the
case, in the First National Bank of Selma, pursuant to instructions from the Interior Department. That bank has
since failed, and is now in the hands of a receiver. The
receiver's answer is in the case, but requires no particular
notice.
* 7 Wallace, 579.

Dec. 1869.]

Ex

PARTE MORRIS AND JOHNSON.

607

Opinion of the court.

Under these circumstances the district judge was at a loss
how to execute the mandate heretofore sent to him, and submits himself to this court for further instructions.
The duty of the District Court is simple and obvious, and
its power ample. The mandate of this court must be obeyed
as far as practicable. All the distributees within reach of the
territorial jurisdiction of the court, except the United States,
must be required by the proper order to refund what they
have received. If they fhil to do so, they should be dealt
with promptly, by attachment, for contempt. This will in
no wise interfere with any other remedy to which the petitioners may be entitled, except that they cannot be paid
twice.
If Smith, the district attorney, received from MeCrosky
any part of the fund ordered to be paid to the latter, the
rights of the petitioners followed the money into his hands,
and he is liable for it.* He should have been required to
disclose the facts touching that subject, and if they were as
the petitioner sought to show, he should have been required
to restore the money so received, as well as that which was
paid to him under the order of distribution.
McCrosky being beyond the reach of the court, no order
can be made in relation to him. He will be amenable to a
suit at law wherever he may be found.
The circumstances of the marshal's deposit should be inquired into. If the money in question was deposited in the
Bank of Selma, pursuant to instructions from the proper
authority, he is exonerated. In that event, the proper certificate should be given by the court to the petitioners, and
they must be left to seek redress in the appropriate manner.
The court has no authority to order the United States to
refund.
A writ of mandamus will be sent to the District Court,
directing it to proceed to execute the mandate of this court
IN

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

Taylor v. Plumer, 8 Maule & Selwyn, 562; Oliver v. Piatt, 8 Howard,
401.

