BUTLER V. MAPLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Supported as the ruling of the court is by an act of Congress and by a course of decision extending through a period
of three-quarters of a century, it can hardly be expected that
JUDGmENT AFFIRMED.
it will be disapproved.

BUTLER V. MAPLES.
1. An authority to an agent to buy cotton in a certain region and its vicinity,
and to buy generally from whomsoever the agent, not his principals,
might determine-one having in view not merely a single transaction
or a number of specified transactions, but a class of purchasers and a department of business-makes a general agency to buy the cotton there,
and if the agent, holding himself out as the general agent, purchase
there under his power, he may bind his principal in violation of special
instructions not communicated to his vendors, and of which they had
neither knowledge nor reason to suspect the existence.
2. Where evidence showed that a region in the South which had been
previously in possession of the rebel army was evacuated by them,
and that the citizens generally had taken the oath of allegiance or obtained protection papers, the grant of a permit by a proper treasury
agent to purchase cotton authorized by treasury regulations, to be
granted only in cases where the country was within the occupation of
the military lines of the United States, raises at least a prmfacte presumption of the country's being within such occupation.
8. Where such permits were always in the same form, a printed one, and
on a suit against a party to whom one has been granted, the permit
granted to him has not been produced on call, the treasury agent who
granted it may properly state its contents from his knowledge and recollection of them.
4. A treasury permit to, a firm, to buy cotton, authorized them to buy
through their agent.

to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Tennessee, the case was thus
During the late rebellion, cotton having been an object
whose acquisition was desired by the people of the North,
its purchase within the Confederate lines was resorted to
not unfrequently by a certain class of traders from the loyal
States. ,Such trading was unlawful as trading with an enemy,
ERROR

Dec. 1869.]

[BUTLER V. M APLES.
Statement of the case.

and was moreover made void by statute. But trading In a
prescribed form, under certain conditions, within the insurrectionary region, if the same had been brought within the
lines of the National military occupation, was made lawful
by treasury regulation, If the trading was carried on under
a permit from certain officers of the Treasury Department.
II this state of things one Shepherd, living ir Desha
Contv. A,'kausas,,a-county In the east of that State and.
situate on the Mississippi, some distance below Memphis,
Tennessee, made a purchase of 144 bales of cotton from a
person named Maples, living not far from him, Shepherd
professznq-in what he did to act in the name of a firm known
as Bridge & Co., whose members were living and trading at
Memphis, and which was composed of Butler and Hicox,
w th other- persoiis
At the tune of this purchase Memphis was and had been
for a long term in the quiet occupation of the Federal troops.
"The Confederate forces had evacuated Little Rock, the
capital of Arkansas, and all the country south of the Ar
kansas River, and had fallen back through the southwestern
portion of the State to the Red River and into Texas. There
was not an organized force of Confederates near the village
of Red Fork, in Desha County, nor a, Confederate post or
force nearer than one hundred and fifty or two hundred
miles from Red Fork. There were very few, if any straggling soldiers in that portion of Arkansas on which Red
Fork is situated. The citizens generally took the oath of
allegiance to the United States, and many, if not most of
them, procured what were called protection papers from the
United States."
The cotton bought by Shepherd was bought by him as it
lay, he agreeing to pay for it forty cents a pound as soon as
it could be weighed. Having been weighed he removed
fifty-four bales of it, but ninety bales were burned before it
could be placed in a boat to be carried up the river. The
ffty-four bales removed were got on board and sent to
Bridge & Co., and Maples, the vendor, went to Memphis to
see them. He saw ITicox, who wholly denied Shepherd's

BUTLER V. MAPLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

agency, refused to pay anything for the cotton that was, lost,
but agreed to piy fifty cents a pound for these fifty-four bales
that had arrived. Maples took tils sum,..SuppQsig, as he
alleged, that the assertions about Shepherd's want of authority were true, and only on that account. Seeing Shepli-erd-afferwards, Shepherd inform ! him that they were not
trued-and Butler and Hicox still denying wholly Shepherd's
authority to make the contract and to bind the firm, and still
refusing to pay for the cotton that was burnt, Maples sued
them in 'the court below to recover the price.*
On the trial it was testified to by one Carleton (under objection), that at this time he was the treasury agent, and
that he had issued to the firm of Bridge & Co. a "permit"
to purchase and transmit to market one thousand five hundred bales of cotton within the lines of Federal military
occupation, first special agency [The admission of his testimony was excepted to, both because the witness should have
produced his official books, and because a permit to Bridge
& Co. was none to Shepherd.] This agency included so
much of the States of Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, and
Louisiana, as was occupied by the National forces operating
from the north. There was a printed form, as it appeared,
invariablv used. The defendant below did not produce this
permit, though served with a notice to do so.
The evidence of Shepherd's authority to make the contract for the defendants and bind them to its performance,
so far as it was direct, was of two kinds. The first and principal was an article of agreement, made on the 16th day of
October, A.D 1863, between Bridge & Co. and Shepherd,
describing him as of Desha County, Arkansas. The agreement declared its purpose to be "purchasing R. C. Stone's
and such other cotton as said Shepherd may be able to purchase in said county and vicinity, under the conditions and
restrictions hereinafter set forth." HavIng thus declared its
purpose, it recited that Bridge, & Co. had furnished to ShepThe writ issued against others in addition to the two defendants nared,
but the others were not served with process and the issue was joined but
between the plaintiff and Maples and Hicox.

Dec. 1869.]

BUTLER V. MAPLES.
Statement of the case.

htrd $40_0_alnd stipulated that they would furni-sh him such
other noneyfrom time to time as might be necessary to purchase said cotton. By the instrument it was further agreed
tLha-epIh_,.4o
uld buy the cotton, if it could_ be_ bought
at the price set forth therein, and as much more as he could
on the best possible terms, not paying an average of more
Ian-lhiriyc;_enis Per, pound for middling cotton, and lower in
prop ortionto the grade, to be delivered at such times and
place s of shipment as might be agreed upon. It was further
agreed that Sbhepherd should pay as little as possible on the
cotton until it should be delivered on a boat, or within protection of ag.iboat, and tbat when thus delivered on the
bbfi and paid for, the property and ownership thereof should
vest exclusively in the said Bridge & Co., except as in the
agreement was provided for his share of the profits. The
instrument then stipulated that Bridge & Co. should ship
the cotton to Memphis, sell it to the best possible advantage,
and, after reimbursiig themselves the purchase-money, the
cost of hauling, shipping, drayage, commissions, &c., should
pay Shepherd one-eighth part of the net profits.- It also
provided that contracts, shipments, permits, &c., necessary
to purchase and get the cotton to Memphis, should be in
Shepherd's name, and that Bridge & Co. might thus use his
name when necessary
Tie other direct evidence of the agency was supplied by
the testimony of one Martin, a witness for the defendants.
He was sent by them to Arkansas with money and instructions for Shepherd, the instructions being that he should
purchase cotton for the firm, but was not to agree to pay
more than from thirty to thirty-five cents per pound for it.
lte ighllt--make small advances, but he was instructed not
to py --e halanceof the purchase-money, or make it payable, until the firm should be able to send a boat up the Arkasas-River for the cotton, and until it was in their possessk~u, _veighed, and placed on the boat. He was directed to
take no risk for the firm of the destruction of the cotton by
incendiaries, or in any other way, except to the extent of the
money advanced. There was other indirect evidence of
VOL. IX.

49

BUTLER V. MAPLES.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Shepherd's agency, to which it is not necessary now to refer.
Clothed with such powers, and under such instructions, he
bought cotton of divers persons (including the one hundred
and forty-four, bales bought of Maples) representing himself
to be the agent of Bridge & Co., though not speaking of his
written authority, or of any particular instructions.
The evidence being closed, the court charged the jury,
and among other things said as follows
"What is military occupation, is a question of law, to be
decided by the court, and I instruct you, that if you believe
the testimony in the case as to the location of Federal forces
and garrisons in the region of country where the contract
was made, and (as to the desire of the inhabitants) submitting to the authority of the government to restore their relations with the government, as manifested by their taking
the oath of allegiance, and applying for and receiving 'protection papers,' then there was such a military occupation
as is contemplated by the laws of Congress referred to.
"But in addition to this, the special agent of the Treasury
Department, who was authorized to grant permits, exercised
judicial functions in deciding what country was within the
lines of military occupation, and when he granted a permit
to buy cotton in a designated region, the permit itself was a
decision by him that the region so designatted was so occupied. When an officer of the government, thus clothed with
judicial functions, grants a permit in the exercise of those
functions, it would be very unjust to hold the party receiving the permit and acting under it responsible for that decisioi.
" These questions disposed of, the case is resolved into a
question of agency Now, did Shepherd have authority to
bind defendants by that contract9
" A principal is bound by all that a general agent does
within the scope of the business in which he is employed as
such general agent, and even if such general agent should
violate special or secret instructions given him. by his principal and not disclosed to the party with whom the agent
deals, the principal would still be bound if the agent's acts

Dec. 1-869.]

BUTLER V.

MAPLES.

Statement of the case.

,were within the scope of the business in which he was employed, and of his general agency
"However, a party dealing with a general agent, who
seeks to hold the principal bound for the agent's acts or
contracts, must show, in order to recover, that the agent
held himself out as general agent, and that in fact he was
such general agent.
"If Shepherd held himself out as the general agent of
Bridge & Co., then the defendant is bound by the contract
which he made with the plaintiff for the cotton, notwithstanding Shepherd may have agreed to pay more for the
cotton than his principal had authorized, and if, as genoral agent for Bridge & Co., to buy cotton in Desha County,
Shepherd was not authorized by Bridge & Co. to buy cotton
except to be delivered on board the boat, and in violation
of their instructions he did buy the plaintiff's cotton, and
agreed to receive and accept delivery of it elsewhere than
on the boat, unless the plaintiff knew of these instructions,
the defendants are bound by the contract which Shepherd
made, because it was within the scope of his general agency
just as much as was the agreement to give for the cotton a
larger price than that to which he was limited by the instruc
tions of Bridge & Co.
"But it is said that the plaintiff agreed to rescind and
abandon the contract made with Shepherd, and made a new
contract with the defendant Iicox, by which he sold to
Hhicox the fifty-four bales, of cotton not burned, at fifty cents
per pound, and that this discharges the former contract made
with Shepherd. The effect of the new contract must depend
on the circumstances. If the plaintiff and Hlicox came together, and made a contract about the fifty-four bales, when
all the facts were known to the plaintiff; that is, if the plaintiff knew that Shepherd had exceeded his authority, and
then made the new contract as proven, this new contract
would discharge the defendant from the fbrmer contract
between the plaintiff and Shepherd. But in order that the
new contract might have this effect, the plaintiff must have
known all the facts, all about Shepherd's authority, and if

BUTLER V.

MAPLES.

fsup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not thus advised-if anything known to Hicox, which the
plaintiff was entitled to know, was not disclosed to him-he
was not bound by the new contract, and the defendant was
not discharged from the old one."
The defendant excepted to the charge upon the following
points
1. That the written agreement or power of attorney introduced in evidence by plaintiff, established that Shepherd
was the general agent of Bridge & Co.
2. That in granting the permit proved by Carleton, the
treasury officer exercised judicial functions, and decided conclusively that the region of country to which the permit relates was within the lines of military occupation, and that as
a matter of law, upon the proof in the case as to the condition of the country, and upon the permit granted to Bridge
& Co., that Desha County was, at the date of contract, in
November, 1863, within the lines of military occupation of
National forces operating from the north.
That the court erred,
3. In the instruction given as to general and special agency,
because the same was not applicable to the proof in the case,
was irrelevant therefore, and calculated to mislead the jury,
and also because, as abstract propositions of law, the instruction upon this point is erroneous.
4. In that part of the charge which relates to the new
contract between Hicox and the plaintiff, by which Hicox
bought the fifty-four bales of cotton at fifty cents per pound,,
and which stated to the jury the effect of the new contract.
Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the
defendants brought the case here on the exceptions to the
evidence and to the charge.
Mr Palmer, for the plantiff zn error, Messrs. P Phillips
and D McRae, contra.
Mr Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
At the trial it was, of course, incumbent upon the plaintiff
to prove not only the contract of sale, but also that Shep-

Dec. 1869.]

BUTLER V.

MAPLES.

Opinion of the court.

herd, with whom the contract had been made, had authority
to act fbr and bind the defendants. Accordingly evidence
was submitted to show that the cotton was purchased by
Shepherd when professing to act as an agent for the defendants. There was hardly any controversy about this fact, and
no questions are now raised respecting the competency or
sufficiency of the proof, or the manner in which it was submitted to the jury But the authority of Shepherd to make
the contract for the defendants and bind them to its performance was stoutly denied, and it is now strenuously insisted that the court erred in the instructions given to the
jury respecting the evidence of his agency The defendants
insist the court erred in charging that the written agreement
between him and Bridge & Co. constituted him their general
agent. We do not find that the court did thus instruct the
jury, though it must be admitted the charge may have been
thus understood. The jury was instructed that if Shepherd
held himself out as the general agent of Bridge & Co., the
defendants were bound by the contract he made with the
plaintiff for the cotton, though in making the contract he
transgressed the instructions he had received, and secret
limitations of his authority, which instructions and limitations were not revealed to the plaintiff It is true, as has
been noticed, there was other evidence of a general agency
beyond that which the agreement furnished, but as it was
parol evidence, its force and effect were for the jury, and
hence the court could not rightly have charged that the defendants were bound by the contract unless the agreement
did itself constitute Shepherd a general agent. But did it
not? The distinction between a general and a special agency
is in most cases a plain one. The purpose of the latter is a
single transaction, or a transaction with designated persons.
It does not leave to the agent any discretion as to the persons with whom he may contract for the principal, if he be
empowered to make more than one contract. Authority to
buy for a principal a single article of merchandise by one
contract, or to buy several articles from a person named, is
a special agency, but authority to make purchases from any

BUTLER V.

MAPLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

persons with whom the agent may choose to deal, or to make
an indefinite number of purchases, is a general agency And
it IS not the less a general agency because it does not extend
over the whole business of the principal. A man may have
many general agents-one to buy cotton, another to buy
wheat, and another to buy horses. So he may have a general agent to buy cotton in one neighborhood, and another
general agent to buv cotton in another neighborhood. The
distinction between the two kinds of agencies is that the one
is created by power given to do acts of a class, and the other
by power given to do individual acts only Whether, therefore, an agency is general or special is wholly independent
of the question whether the power to act within the scope
of theiauthority given is unrestricted, or whether it is restrained by instructions or conditions imposed by the principal relative to the mode of its exercise. Looking to the
agreement between Bridge & Co. aid Shepherd, it cannot be doubted that it created a general agency It was a
delegation of authority to buy cotton in Desha County and
its vicinity, to buy generally, from whomsoever the agent,
not his principals, might determine. It had in view not
merely a single transaction, or a number of specified transactions, which were in the mind of the principals when the
agent was appointed, but a class of purchases, a department
of business. It is true that it contained guards and restrictions which were intended as regulations between the parties, but they were secret instructions rather than limitations.
They were not intended to be communicated to the parties
with whom the agent should deal, and they never were communicated. It was, therefore, not error to instruct the jury
as the court did, that the agency was a general one, and that
the defendants were bound by the contract, if Shepherd held
himself out as authorized to buy cotton, and if the plaintiff
had no knowledge of the instructions respecting the mode
in which the agent was required to act.
It may be remarked here that the reasons urged by the
plaintiffh in error in support of their denial of liability for
the engagements made by Shepherd are that he agreed to

Dec. 1869.]

BUTLER V. MAPLES.
Opinion of the court.

pay forty cents per pound for the plaintiff's cotton, that he
bought the cotton where it lay instead of requiring delivery
on board a steamboat, or within the protection of a gunboat, and that he did not obtain a permit from the government to make the purchase. The argument is that in the
first two particulars he transcended his powers, and that his
authority to buy at all was conditioned upon his obtaining a
permit from the government. All this, however, is immaterial, if it was within the scope of his authority that he
acted. The mode of buying, the price agreed to be paid,
and the antecedent qualifications required of hin, were matters between him and his principals. They are not matters
in regard to which one dealing with him was bound to inquire. But even as between Bridge & Co. and Shepherd a
purchase at forty cents per pound was not beyond his authority He was authorized to buy " on the best possible
terms, not paying an average of more than thirty cents per
pound." This contemplated his agreeing to pay in some
cases above thirty cents. The average was regulated, but
np maximum was fixed. Nor is there anything in the agreemient that forbade his purchasing cotton deliverable at once
where it lay, though not on a boat or in the protection of a
gunboat. He was authorized to purchase deliverable at
such tunes and places of shipment as might be agreed upon,
that is, deliverable when and where it might be stipulated
between him and the seller. True, he was to pay as little
as possible until the cotton was delivered on a boat, or within
the protection of a gunboat, and when thus delivered the
property in the goods was to vest in the principals, excepting his share of the profits, but he was not prohibited from
paying the whole price, or agreeing to pay the whole price,
if insisted on by the vendor. The stipulation respecting the
vesting of ownership was nothing more than a definition of
right between him and his principals, as is manifested by
the exception. Nor was Shepherd bound to procure a permit
in his own name. He might have been had it been necessary, but ifunder the pernit granted by Bridge & Co. he could
purchase as their agent, it was all the agreement required.

BUTLER V. MAPLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It is further objected to the charge given to the jury respecting general and special agency, that it was not applicable to the proof in the case, and was therefore irrelevant
and calculated to mislead the jury, and because, as stating
abstract questions of law, the instruction was erroneous. If,
in truth, it was irrelevant, it was not on that account necessarily erroneous and calculated to mislead the jury We are
not shown, nor do we perceive, how the jury could have been
misled by it. They were instructed that, in cases of special
agency, one who deals with the agent must inquire into the
extent of his authority, but that a principal is bound by all
that his general agent has done within the scope of the business in which, he was employed, and this, though the agent
may have violated special or secret instructions given him,
but not disclosed to the party with whom the agent deals.
Surely this was correct, and it was applicable to the evidence
in the case. It has been intimated during the argument
that the court should have added that no such liability can
exist to one dealing with an agent with notice that the particular act of the agent was without authority from the principal. To this several answers may be made. The exception
to the general rule, which it is said the court should have
recognized, is implied in what the court did say Again,
there was no request for any such instruction, and still
again, the evidence in the case did not demand it. There
was no pretence that the plaintiff had any notice of secret
instructions given to Shepherd, or of any limitations upon
his authority Nor was there anything that imposed upon
him the duty of making inquiry for secret Instructions or
for restrictions. There were no circumstances that should
have awakened suspicion. The plaintiff was not apprised
that the authority was in writing. The argument is very
far-fetched that infers a duty to inquire whether the agent
had private instruction from the fact that the contract was
made in a region that had been in a state of insurrection.
It is next insisted that the court erred in instructing the
jury that in granting the permit to Bridge & Co. to buy
cotton, the special agent of the treasury, who was author-

Dec. 1869.]

BUTLER V. MAPLES.
Opinion of the court.

ized to grant permits, exercised judicial functions, and decided conclusively that the district of country to which the
permit extended was within the lines of Federal military
occupation. This is not, however, quite an accurate statement of what the court did charge. The judge said, in
effect, that the treasury agent, in granting the permit, exer
cised judicial functions, and that granting it was a decision
by him that the region designated in it was within the lines
of military occupation, but he did not say it was a conclusive decision. He did charge, as a matter of law, that
"upon the proof in the case as to the condition of the country, and upon the permit granted to Bridge & Co., Desha
County, Arkansas, was, at the date of the contract, in November, 1863, within the lines of the National forces operating from the north, and that the plaintiff and Shepherd
had a right to make the contract for the sale and purchase of
the cotton." The iistructmon was not based upon the grant
of-the pernit alone. There was uncontradicted evidence ii
the case that, before the permit was granted, the part of the
State in which Desha County is situated had been evacuated
by the Confederate forces, who had retreated toward the Red
River, and into Texas, that there were no such forces within
from one hundred and fifty to two hundred miles from Red
Fork, in Desha County, and that the military occupation of
the National forces extended over the region. It was also
proved that the citizens generally had taken the oath of allegiance, or obtained protection papers. Coupling these facts,
about which there was no dispute, with the other fact that
the treasury agent had granted a permit to Bridge & Co. to
buy cotton there, the judge was not in error when he gave
the instruction to which exception is now taken. It may be
that the grant of the permit was not technically a judicial
act, but it was an exercise of the treasury agent's judgment,
and a deduction from the facts known by him, that the region over which the permit extended was within the military
lines. It is to be presumed that he acted rightly, and as he
could not lawfully grant the pernit in the absence of such
military occupation, his grant of it raised a presumption that

BUTLER V.

MAPLES.

[Sul). Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the occupation existed. It established at least a prima facie
case. In United Slates v Weed,*.this court said, "The fact
that the proper officers issued these permits for certain par
ishes, must be taken as evidence that they were properly
issued until the contrary is established." But a prnma facie
case, with nothing to rebut it, is a case made out. If, then,
what amounts to military occupation, the facts being ascertained, is necessarily a question of law, as must be conceded,
and if there was nothing to rebut the presumption of fact
arising from the grant of the permit, and no contradiction
or impeachment of the direct testimony, the court was justified in declaring, as matter of law, that Desha County was
within the lines of military occupation from the north, and
that the contract was not illegal.
The next objection to the charge may be disposed of in a
word. Indeed, it has not been seriously urged here. That
the defendants cannot set up a new contract, obtained by
one of them from the plaintiff for a sale of part of the cotton,
as a discharge from the contract made for them by Shepherd,
if the new contract was obtained by their own misrepresentations, or by their denial of Shepherd's agency, is too plain
to need discussion. And yet, that they may, must be maintained by them in order to convict the court below of error
in the instructions given respecting the new contract.
A single exception remains to be considered. It is to the
admission of the testimony of Carleton. He was introduced
to prove that he, as special treasury agent, had issued a permit to Bridge & Co., and to prove its contents, notice having
been given to the defendants to produce the permit itself,
and they having failed to do so. It is objected, first, that his
official books should have been produced, and that it was
incompetent to prove the permit in any other way The
permit itself would have been the best evidence, but it was
not produced on call, and therefore secondary evidence was
admissible. There are no degrees of such evidence, and the
official books of the treasury agent, had there been any in
* 6 Wallace, 73.

Dec. 1869.1'

GLEASON V. FLORIDA.
Statement of the case.

existence, would have been at best but secondary proof, of
no higher order than was the testimony of a witness. There
was, also, no proof that any such books had been kept, and
consequently nothing to show that there was any better evidence than that which was offered. Another objection was
made against its subject-matter. Itwas, that the permit, of
which the proof was offered, was to Bridge & Co., and not to
Shepherd. We do not perceive any merit in this objection.
We have already said that, in the agreement between him
and his principals, Shepherd did not undertake to procure a
permit unlkss it should be necessary to buy cotton and get
it to Memphis, and we do not perceive why a permit to
Bridge & Co. did not enable them to buy through an agent,
and render any permit to their agent unnecessary. For
these reasons, the objections urged against the admission
of the testimony of Carleton cannot be sustained.
JUDGMENT, AFFIlAMID.

GLEASON v. FLORIDA.
1. No writ of error to a State court can issue without allowance, either by
the proper judge of the State court or by a judge of this court, after examination of the record, in order to see whether any question cognizable
here on appeal was made and decided in the proper court of the State,
and whether the case, upon the face of the record, will justify the allowance of the writ ; and this is to be considered as the settled construction
of the Judiciary Act on this subject. Writ dismissed accordingly.
2. Doubted. Whether in any case the affidavit of a party to the record can
be used as evidence of the fact of such allowance And the affidavit of
such a party refused in a case where the court thought it highly probable that he was mistaken in his recollection.

by Mr. Howe to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Florida, which had been taken under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act; but which that
counsel conceived did not come within that act.
The record showed an information, in the nature of a
writ of quo warranto, in the Supreme Court of the State of
MOTION

