LIONBERGER V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

LIONBERGER V. ROUSE.
Lo By the second limitation in the proviso to the 41st section of the National
banking act, which enacts that the tax which the section allows the
States to impose on the shares hold by persons in the said banks, "shall
not exceed the rate imposed upon the shares in any of the banks organized under the authority of the State where such association is located,"
Congress meant no more than to require of each State, as a condition to
the exercise of the power to tax the shares in National banks, that it
should, as far as it had the capacity, tax in like manner the shares of
banks of issue of its own creation.

2. Accordingly, where a State, having at the time only two banks of issue
and circulation, both of which two it had by contract with them disabled itself from taxing beyond a certain amount, bad also numerous

banks not banks of issue, having a far greater capital than the two
of issue, laid a tax on all shares of stock in banks and incorporated
companies generally,-the fact that it could not collect a tax past a
certain amount in the two banks of issue which it had at that time, was

held no bar to the collection of the tax on the shares of the National
banks for a greater amount.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Missouri, the case being
this:
Prior to 1857, there had been in Missouri, and there were
in the State at that time, several institutions which-under
the name, for the most part, of savings banks, loan institutions, saving associations, and the like, though sometimes
with the title of banks only-transacted business often known
as "banking;" that is to say, which received deposits, lent
money, and dealt in exchange; but which had not the privilege of issuing notes to circulate as money; not, therefore,
banks of issue.
In the year just named, 1857, the State established ten
banks, which, in addition to the powers of receiving deposits,
lending money, and dealing in exchange, had also the power
of issuing paper money; the ordinary banks of deposit, discount, and issue or circulation. There were thus in the State,
"banks" which were not banks of issue, and banks which
were banks of this kind. The act establishing the ten banks
of issue declared that

Dec. 1869.]

LIONBERGER V. ROUSE.
Statement of the case.

"Each banking company (incorpdrated under it) agrees to pay
to the State annually one per cent. on the amount of capital stock
paid in by the stockholders other than the State, which shall be
in full of all bonus and taxes to be paid to the State by the respective banks."

And an act amendatory of the act of incorporation provided
that this one per cent. on the amount of capital stock should
be a full compensation for all taxes of every kind whatsoever.
In 1863, these ten banks of discount, deposit, and issue, as
also numerous other banks not banks of issue, but banks of
the sort first above described, being in existence, Cohgress,
by act of 25th of February, of that year, entitled "Aft act to
provide for a National currency," authorized the establishment of National banks; giving power in the act to State
banks to become National ones. Under this act of Congress
(the State legislature also authorizing any bank, savings institution, savings association, or other corporation having
banking powers and privileges in the State, under the laws
thereof, to form associations for the purpose of doing a banking business under the act of Congress of February 25th,
1863), eight of the already mentioned ten banks of issue,
and which had the privilege while State banks to pay the one
per cent. annually in lieu of all taxes, made themselves National banks. Two, however, did not. These two remained
State institutions with the privilege of the one per cent., as
before. The old associations, that is to say, the banks not
of issue, all of which had charters independently of the act
of 1857, and which had not the privilege to pay one per
cent. in lieu of all other taxes, remained State institutions.
In this state of things, Congress, on the 3d of June, 1864,
passed an act regulating the right of States to tax the shares
of National banks. The 41st section of this act* provided:
"That nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent all
the shares in any of the said associations, held by any person,
* 13 Stat. at Large, 111.

LIONBERGER V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

from being included in the valuation of personal property of
such person in the assessment of taxes imposed by or under
State authority, at the place where such a bank is located, and
not elsewhere, but not at a greater rate than is assessed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of
such State.
"Provided further, that the tax so imposed, under the laws of
any State, upon the shares of any of the associations authorized
by this act, shall not exceed the rate imposed upon the shares
in any of the banks organized under the authority of the State
where such association is located."
These enactments, Federal and State, being in force, the
legislature of Missouri, by an act of the 4th February, 1864,
concerning revenue, provided that "shares of stock in banks
and other incorporated companies" should be subject to
assessment as other property. The statute provided the
mode of assessment as follows:
" Persons owning shares in banks and other incorporated
companies, taxable by law, are not required to deliver to the
assessor a list thereof; but the President or other chief officer
of such corporation shall deliver to the assessor a list of all
shares of stock held therein, and the names of the persons who
hold the same.
"The tax assessed on shares of stock, embraced in said list,
shall be paid by the corporations respectively, and they may recover from the owners of such shares the amount so paid by
them, or deduct the same from dividends accruing on such
shares."

Under this act, a tax of nearly two per cent. was levied
by the State on the assessed valuation of the shares of one
Lionberger, a resident of St. Louis, and a shareholder in
the Third National Bank of St. Louis. Payment of the tax
being refused, the collector, a certain Rouse, collected it
forcibly. Lionberger thereupon brought suit against him,
in one of the State courts, for the alleged wrongful act;
asserting that the proviso in the 41st section of the act of
1864, imposing a limitation on the power of the States, had

Dec. 1869.]

LIONBERGER

V. ROUSE.

Argument against the tax.

reference to banks of issue alone; that the State had disabled itself by its contract with them to tax that sort of
bank otherwise than it had contracted for (one per cent.), and
that the assessment and collection, if made under color of
law, were without any legal authority whatever. It was not
denied that the two State banks of issue held a very inconsiderable portion of the banking capital of the State, and
that the shares of all other associations in the State (of which
there were many, some created after 1857, and some before),
with all the privileges of banking except the power to emit
bills, were taxed like the shares in National banks. The
court in which the suit was brought decided adversely to
the position set up, and on appeal the Supreme Court of the
State-observing that the moneyed associations, saving and
banking institutions of the State, were banks to all intents
and purposes, and that their shareholders were taxed at the
same prescribed rate as the shareholders in the National institutions-affirmed the decision. The case was now brought
here for review. Many shareholders in the National banks
in Missouri had also refused to pay the tax laid under the
State statute, and the present case was in the nature of a
test case to settle its validity; more than $300,000 of such
taxes, as was said, being dependent on the judgment.
Messrs. -Evartsand Broadhead,for the plaintiff in error:
1. We assume, as matter of law, that the State of Missouri has disabled itself by contract with the two now existing State banks of issue from laying any tax upon them, or
npon their shares, but that of one per cent.* And we assume
also, that no taxation by the State upon the capital of the
National banks can be at present made, under any Federal
legislation existing, nor any upon the shares except under
the permissive and restrictive authority of the 41st section
of the act of Congress of June 3d, 1864.t How, then, can
" Home of the Friendless v Rouse, 8 Wallace, 430.
t Gordon v. The Appeal Court, 3 Howard, 138; Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wallace, 573; Peopie v. The Commissioners, 4 Id. 244; Bradley v.
The People, Ib. 459.

LIONBERGER v. RoUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the tax.

the tax in question, even admitting it to be a tax on shares,
as distinguished from one on capital, be justified? The fact
that certain State institutions-sometimes called banks, and
without impropriety-are subjected to the same rate and
method of taxation as are applied to the National banks is
no answer to our question; for the 41st section provides, as
the final condition to the validity of State taxation of the
shares of National banks, that the tax so imposed " shall not
exceed the rate imposed upon the shares in any of the banks
organized under the authority of the State," where the National bank is located. But,
2. The tax is really a tax on the capital of the banks.
The shares are not taxed at all. The shareholder has nothing, under the Missouri statute, to do with the matter.
ie
makes no return of his shares. It is "the president or other
chief officer of such corporation" who delivers to the assessor the list of all the shares in the bank; and it is the corporation which, by the express words of the State statute,
pays the tax. That the corporation gets it afterwards, as it
can and if it can, does not change the case.
Messrs. Blair and Dick, contra:
1. The Supreme Court of Missouri has decided that the
two institutions organized under the act of 1857, are not the
only "banks" in the State, but on the contrary, that the
banking institutions organized under the laws of the State
which confer banking privileges without the power of issuing
paper, are banks; and this is in harmony with the ruling of
this court in the case of The Bank for Savings v. The Collector,*
which says:
"Banks, in the commercial sense, are of three kinds, to wit:
1st, of deposit; 2d, of discount; 3d, of circulation; all or any
of these functions may be and frequently are exercised by the
same association ; but there are still banks of deposit, without
authority to make discounts, or issue a circulating medium."
*

8 Wallace, 495, 512.

Dec. 1 869.]

LIONBERGER V.

ROUSE.

Opinion of the court.

The revenue laws of Congress also recognize banks without circulation as " banks " for the purposes of taxation.
The meaning given by the plaintiff to the State statute,
assumes that the word " banks" means, always, "banks 6f
issue," which it does not always mean.
2. The bank is made by the State statute the agent of each
individual shareholder, and acts merely as such. This is a
convenience to him as also to the State; and is not unlawful.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has received the careful consideration of the
court, as well on account of the principle involved, as of the
large amount of money dependent on the decision of the
suit.
It is no longer an open question in this court, since the decision in the case of Van Allen v. The Assessors,* that the
shareholders in a National bank are subject to State taxation,
although the entire capital of the bn/nk be invested in the
bonds of the United States, which cannot be taxed by State
authority. The difficulties which have arisen since that decision do not relate to the abstract right of taxation, but
grow out of the supposed conflict of State legislation with
the provisions of the act of Congress on the subject. The
forty-first section of the act of Congress of 3d of June, 1864,t
placing these shares within the reach of the taxing power of
the States, annexed two conditions to the exercise of the
power. The State was forbidden to tax them higher than it
taxed other moneyed capital in the hands of its own citizens,
or to impose on them a tax exceeding the rate imposed upon
the shares in any of the banks organized under State authority. If there was no discrimination in these particulars
the State could lawfully tax shares in the National banks.
It is conceded the tax exacted from the plaintiff in error was
not greater than was assessed on other moneyed capital belonging to individuals or corporations, but it is claimed that
it is higher than the rate paid by the State banks.
8 Wallace, 673.

13 Stat. at Large, 111.

LIoNBERGER V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

And this brings us to the consideration of the main question in the case. It is contended that the tax in question is
invalid, because the two State batks chartered in 1857, which
did not, like the remaining eight, become National banks,
cannot be taxed more highly than one per cent., while the
assessment of the shares of the plaintiff in error equals
nearly two per cent. It is not denied that these two banks
hold a very inconsiderable portion of the banking capital of
the State, and that the shares of all other associations in the
State (there being many), with all the privileges of banking
except the power to emit bills, are taxed like the shares in
National banks, but it is claimed the proviso in the forty-first
section of the National banking act, imposing a limitation
on the power of the States, has reference alone to banks of
issue. To ascertain the sense in which the word bank is
used in the proviso to this section, it is necessary to recur to
the mischief which Congress desired to guard against. The
National banks were established to provide a National currency, at a time when the State banks furnished the entire
paper circulation of the country. In providing a system by
which the States, where National banks were located and
did business, could tax their shares, it was important, as their
notes came in competition with State bank paper, that there
should be no unfavorable discrimination against them. It
was easy to see that an unfriendly State could legislate so as
to drive them out of circulation, and this consideration induced Congress to limit the State power of taxation in two
particulars. In declaring that National bank shares should
be taxed like other moneyed capital, and that no burdens
should be imposed on them from which State banks were
exempt, all was done that the necessity of the case required.
There was nothing to fear from banks of discount and deposit merely, for in no event could they work any displacement of National bank circulation. It seems, therefore,
clear, that the proviso to the forty-first section was meant by
Congress to apply to banks of issue. It is proper in this
connection to observe, that the changed condition of the
banking interests of the country, has been the occasion of

Dec. 1869.]

LIONBFRGER

v.

RoUSE.

Opinion of the court.

further legislation by Congress on this subject, and that now
the power of State taxation over the shares of National
banks is subject only to the restriction that the taxation shall
not be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens.*
Having determined that Congress, in imposing conditions
on the power of the State to tax, had reference to banks of
circulation, the question arises whether the tax in this case
was invalid because of the status of the two banks left in
Missouri. According to the words of the law the tax was not
warranted, but did Congress intend that the law should have
such an effect? Did it contemplate that the shares of National banks should escape taxation, if the State complied, so
far as it had the ability to do so, with the requirements of
the fbrty-first section of the National Banking Act? In our
opinion the answers to these inquiries must be in the negative. It is a universal rule in the exposition of statutes that
the intent of the law, if it can be clearly ascertained, shall
prevail over the letter, and this is especially true where the
precise words, if construed in their ordinary sense, would
lead to manifest injustice.t
It is very clear that Congress, in conceding to the States
the right to tax, adopted a measure which it was supposed
would operate to restrain them from legislating adversely to
the interests of the National banks. The measure itself
had reference to prospective legislation by the States, and
its object was accomplished when the States conformed, as
far as practicable, their revenue systems to it. Exact conformity was required, if attainable, but the law-making power
did not intend such an absurd thing, as that the power of the
State to tax should depend on its doing an act, which it had
obliged itself not to do. It was well known at the time, and
Congress must be supposed to have legislated on this subject with reference to it, that States, by contract with individuals or corporations, could grant away the right of taxa15 Stat. at Large, p. 34.

t

Dwarris on Statutes, chap. 12; Perry v. Skinner, 2 Meeson & Welsby,
477 ; Stocker v. R arner, 1 Commons' Bench, 149.

LIONBERGER V.

ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion, and that this power had been frequently exercised. It
was equally within the knowledge of Congress that the policy
on this subject varied in different States; while some of them
retained in their own hands the power of taxation over all
species of property, except such as were devoted to religious
or charitable purposes, others had parted with it to interests
of a purely business character, like banks and railroads.
Can it be supposed that Congress, in this condition of things
in the country, meant to confer a privilege by one section of
a law which by another it made practically unavailable ? If
the construction contended for by the plaintiff in error be
allowed, then a State so unfortunate as to have a single
bank, whose shareholders are exempt by contract from taxation in the manner provided by Congress, can derive no
benefit from the power given to tax the shares of National
banks. And this further consequence would follow, that the
shareholders of National banks located in one State would
escape all taxation, while those whose property was invested
in banks in a different locality, would have to contribute
their full share of the public burdens. This court will not
impute to Congress a purpose that would lead to such manifest injustice, in the absence of an express declaration to
that effect. Without pursuing the subject further, it is
enough to say, in our opinion, Congress meant no more by
the second limitation in the proviso to the forty-first section
of the National Banking Act, than to require of each State,
as a condition to the exercise of the power to tax the shares
in National banks, that it should, as far as it had the capacity, tax in like manner the shares of banks of issue of its
own creation.
Testing the case in hand by this rule it is apparent that
the tax complained of was properly assessed and collected.
Missouri has complied, so far as it had the ability to do it,
with the demands of the law.
The legislature, as soon as the National banking system
was created, passed a law enabling the ten banks of issue in
the State to wind up their business, in order that their shareholders could, if they chose, transfer their interests to the

Dec. 1869.]

Tim CITY v.

LAMSON.

Syllabus.

new system. Eight of these banks availed themselves of
the privilege, surrendered their charters as State corporations, and became National bank associations. Two of them
declined the proposition tendered by the State, and are still
doing business in St. Louis. There is no way the State
could compel them to relinquish their charters, nor has it
the power to tax their stockholders on their shares of stock.
Having contracted with these banks to accept from them
annually, in lieu of all taxes, one per cent. on their paid-in
capital stock, it cannot turn round and assess a tax on the
shareholders. As the State did all that it could to conform
its legislation to the requirements of the law, it was therefore in a condition to impose the tax in question on the shares
of stock held by the plaintiff in error.
It is objected that the mode of assessment provided by the
general revenue law of the State, is inconsistent with the
provisions of the act of Congress of June 3d, 1864, as it requires the tax assessed on the shares of stock, to be paid by
the corporations respectively instead of the individual shareholders. This was one of the questions in the case of the
National Bank v. Commonwealth, decided at this term,* and it
was there held that this mode of assessment was not inconsistent with the terms of the law, but in all respects unobjectionable. It is unnecessary to repeat the argument presented
in that case, or to consider the point further, as we see no
reason to question the soundness of that decision.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE CITY v. LAMSON.
1. A holder of coupons which have been cut
they were originally attached, may bring
sent interest already duo, notwithstanding
bond to which they belonged. He need
produce the bond.
* Supra, 353.

off from the bond to which
suit on them, if they reprehe be no longer holder of the
not, if he declares properly,

