:Dec. 1869.]

LOBRANO V.

NELLIGAN.

Statement of the case.

LOBRANO V. NELLIGAN.
Although by the general law of Louisiana a father's guardianship of his
minor children imports a mortgage on his immovable property in their
favor, yet this mortgage does not make such a contract between the
guardian to the minor as that the legislature may not, by special statute,
authorize the father to sell his property divested of the tacit mortgage,
especially where the proceeds are still preserved to the minors by an
investment which the statute prescribes.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case
being thus:

By the civil code of Louisiana the father is the administrator of the estate of his minor children, and does not, as
in communities where the common law prevails, give personal security for the fidelity of his administration, but his
immovable property is tacitly mortgaged in favor of the
minor from the day of his appointment, as security for his
administration, and for the responsibility resulting from it.
In this condition of the general law on the subject, the
legislature empowered James Robb, of New Orleans, to sell
his real estate under certain conditions, and directed so much
of the proceeds of the sale as should be coming to his children to be invested for their benefit, subject to the approval
of the Probate Court, in certain species of securities, which
could not be assigned or transferred until the termination
of the administration. Power was given to the court to
discharge the mortgage to the children, on compliance with
the conditions imposed in the act. And the court having so
discharged the mortgage to the children, Robh sold the
property to one Nelligan. Nelligan in turn sold it to one
Lobrano. Lobrano, however, refused to complete the purchase, assigning as a cause that the property was subject to
a legal mortgage in favor of the minor children, and that
the act of the legislature by virtue of which it was pretended
that the mortgage was raised and cancelled, impaired the
obligation of a contract, and was, therefore, unconstitutional
and void. Suit being brought by Nelligan against Lobrano

LOBRANO V. N ELLIGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

for the purchase-money, and the plea of unconstitutionality
being set up, the Supreme Court of Louisiana held that the
statute impaired no contract and was valid. Lobrano then
brought the case here.
Mr. -Durant,for the plaintiff in error:
By the law of Louisiana guardianship imports a mortgage
on the property of the guardian in favor of the minor. The
guardian, and the minor stand then in relation to one another as parties to a contract. And the contract is not the
less a contract because the obligation is incurred by the
obligor (the guardian) without any express agreement on the
part of the obligee (the minor). The act of the legislature
of Louisiana impaired this obligation by relieving the property of Robb from the mortgage, and leaving the minors
without security.
Mr. J. P. Horner, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended that the statute authorizing Robb to sell
is invalid, because it impaired the obligation of a contract;
but we think this a mistaken view of the subject. It is
certain there was no contract to violate, which the parties
themselves had any hand in making, and the inquiry arises
whether the law has made one for them which has been
impaired by this statute. It will not be questioned that the
legislature possesses the power to determine by law the
manner in which the estates of infants shall be preserved,
and to say what kind of security shall be given by those who
are intrusted with their management, and, if so, as a necessary consequence, it has the power of altering the law on
the subject, whenever in its judgment the interest of the
minor or the public good requires that it should be done.
In most of the States of the Union the guardian of the
property of a minor gives bond, with personal securities, for
his faithful conduct; but in Louisiana, in case the father
occupies that relation, a different security has been provided,

Dec. 1869.]

LOBRANO V. NELLIGAN.

297

Opinion of the court.

fbr his entire real estate is bound fbr the proper discharge
of his trust. The security is called a tacit mortgage, which
is nothing more than a regulation by law, to assure the
property of the minor in the custody of the parent against
loss. The legislature thought proper to adopt this measure
of protection as a general policy on the subject to which it
relates, and as there is no constitutional restraint on its action
in this regard, it can change or modify this policy whenever
it thinks proper to do so. And it has so far modified it,
that the natural tutor of his minor child can at any time
remove the general lien on his real estate, by executing a
mortgage on a specific, part of it, which he is at liberty to
change to other property. This course of proceeding, authorized as early as 1830, must have been generally adopted,
and although the security for the minor is actually lessened
by it, as a part is taken in pledge where the whole was previously bound, it does not appear that the constitutionality
of the statute has ever been questioned. The wisdom of the
measure is apparent, for the public good requires that the
power to alienate real estate should be restricted as little as
possible, and this consideration doubtless induced the legislature to depart from its original policy, which made the
transfer of real estate, when owned by a parent whose minor
children had property, very difficult.
The principle which allows a change of security at all,
necessarily leaves the legislative power over the whole subject unabridged, and there is no right of complaint, if the
legislature, in varying the nature and extent of the security,
takes care that the property is preserved.
A contrary doctrine, if carried to its legitimate conclusion,
would seriously interfere with the ability of the legislature
to perform one of its most important duties. Charged as it
is with the duty of preserving the estate of the minor, it
could not change the character of the security, which it had
at one period accepted as sufficient for the purpose, although
it should turn out to be wholly inadequate to accomplish the
object. It is not to be presumed the legislature will lessen
the security, except for good cause, nor jeopard by its course

298

THE SECRETARY V. MCGARRAIIAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of action the estate of the minor, but, should such be the
case, the corrective cannot be applied by this court.
By the statute in question, which was intended to benefit
the minor children of Robb, and was an indirect mode of
investing their means, under legislative direction, a change
of security has been effected, and nothing more, and we
cannot see how these minors, in the proper sense of the
term, have been divested of any right in consequence of this
change. Be this as it may, the legislature never contracted
with them, or with any one in their behalf, not to use its
power in this regard, and there being no contract to violate,
there is no question in this case which this court can review.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE SECRETARY V. MOGARRAHAN.
1. The Commissioner of the Land Office cannot properly grant a patent
under the 7th section of the act of July, 1866, " to quiet land titles in

California," unless the purchaser bring himself by affirmative proofs
within the terms of the section.
2. The granting of a patent for lands in cases where proofs, hearing, and decision are required, and where the exercise of judgment and discretion
is thus necessary, is not a matter wherein the action of the Department

of the Interior is subject to re-examination by the Supreme Court of the
District.
3. A judgment in mandamus ordering the performance of an official duty
against an officer, as if yet in office, when in fact he had gone out after

service of the writ, and before the judgment is void.

Such a judgment

cannot be executed against his successor.

4. Mandamus to compel either the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
or the Secretary of the Interior, to issue a patent, cannot be sustained
under statutes as now existing.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the 3d of December, 1868, one McGarrahan, the alleged purchaser of the claim of a certain Gomez, to a tract
of land in California, known as the Panoche Grande, filed a
petition in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
ERROR

