Dec. 1869.]

GREEN V.

UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

oNow
may be material to the question of who was in fault.
the case here requires of the claimants to show that by a
sudden and unexpected change in the course of the tugboat
she was brought so directly across the course of the ferryboat that the latter could not avoid the collision. The relative positions of the boats to each other and their relative
courses were correctly stated in the libel, and such change
in the course of the tugboat as was made, was correctly
stated. We cannot see that it was material whether this
slight and gradual change was made a little before arriving
at the corresponding curve in the channel or not, nor whether the collision occurred at that precise point of the river
or a little before it was reached.
We concur with the decree rendered in favor of libellants,
both by the District Court and the Circuit Court, and it is
accordingly
AFFIRMED.

GREEN V. UNITED STATES.
The act of July 2d, 1864, which enacts that in courts of the United States,
there shall be no exclusion of any witness in civil actions, "because he
is a party to or interested in the issue tried ;" and the amendatory act

of March 8d, 1865, making certain exceptions to the rule, apply to civil
actions in which the United States are a party as well as to those be.
tween private parties.
IN error to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio.
This was an action of debt brought by the United States
against one Green, and the sureties on his official bond, as
agent for paying pensions at Cincinnati. Seven sureties
were named in the bond, all of whom executed it. The defendants charged as sureties, besides filing a joint plea of non
eslfaclun, each filed separate special pleas, first, to the effect
that they signed the writing whilst the same was in blank, as
to the names of the obligors, at the request of the principal,
Green, upon the assurance and agreement that it should also

GREEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

be signed and sealed by other parties (named in the plea), as
joint obligors with the defendants, and should not be delivered as a bond until signed and sealed by said persons; that
those other persons never did sign the same; and that the
defendants never would have executed the bond except upon
the condition that they should sign it. A second plea averred
that the bond was signed whilst it was in blank, as to the
names of the obligors, on the conditions above-named, and
being thus signed was left with Green as an escrow, to be
by him delivered to the plaintiff in case it should be executed
by the other persons named, and not otherwise; but that
those other persons never did sign the bond, and it never
was delivered as a valid bond of the defendants, and thereby
became wholly annulled and vacated.
To these special pleas the plaintiff demurred, but the demurrers were overruled, to which overruling the district
attorney excepted, and the exception was entered of record;
and thereupon replications were filed and issue joined on the
pleas. The replications denied that the bonds were signed
in blank as pleaded; denied any legal subsisting agreement
whereby Green was to obtain the signatures of the persons
named in the pleas; and averred that the defendants delivered the bond without giving the plaintiffs any notice that
it was imperfect, but on the contrary delivered it as a full
and complete obligation.
Upon these issues the parties went to trial, and a verdict
was found for the plaintiffs of several thousand dollars. On
the trial the defendants offered one or more of their number
to prove the facts set up in their special pleas; but the court
rejected the witnesses, on the ground that they were parties
defendant to the action, and, the government being plaintiff,
could not testify. To this ruling a bill of exceptions was
taken, and a writ of error brought to this court.
By the third section of the act of Congress, passed July
2d, 1864,* it is provided that:
"In the courts of the United States, there shall be no exclu* 13 Stat, at Large, 351.

Dec. 1869.]

GREEN V.

UNITED

STATES.-

Opinion of the court.

Sion of any witness on account of color, nor, in civil actions, because he is a party to, or interested in, the issue tried."
This section was amended by an act passed March 3d,
1865,* by the addition of the following proviso:
"Provided, that in actions by or against executors, administrators, or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for
or against them, neither party shall be allowed to testify against
the other as to any transaction with, or statement by, the testator, intestate, or ward, unless called to testify thereto by the
opposite party, or required to testify thereto by the court."
The trial in this case took place in June, 1866, after the
passage of the above acts.
Mr. Fox, for the plaintiff in error, citing Attorney- General v.

BRadloIJt contended that the evidence had been improperly
rejected; that the government was as much bound by the
language of a statute, regulating the admission of evidence
in civil suits where it was a party, as were individuals; and
that the statutes themselves not having excepted it, this
court could not do so.
Mr. Hoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. W. A. Field, Assistant Attorney-General, submitted, contra, that the statutes were
meant to give both parties an equal standing in court in respect to evidence; that the United States not being able to
testify, a party opposed to them should not be allowed to do
so either; and that independently of this, it was a rule of
construction that "the king is not bound by any act of Parliament, unless he be named therein by special and particular words."I
Mr. Justice BRADLEY having stated the case, as already
given, delivered the opinion of the court.
We see no reason why these acts should not be applied to
trials in which the United States are a party, as well as those
t 10 Exchequer, 84.
13 Stat. at Large, 533.
• See Jones v. United States, 1 Nott & Huntingdon, 384.
VOL. IX.

42

GREEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

between private persons. The express exception of executors, administrators, and guardians would seem, by necessary
inference, to leave all other suitors under the operation of
the law. It is urged that the government is not bound by a
law unless expressly named. We do not see why this rule of
construction should apply to acts of legislation which lay
down general rules of procedure in civil actions. The very
fact that it is confined to civil actions would seem to show
that Congress intended it to apply to actions in which the
government is a party, as well as those between private persons. For the United States is a necessary party in all criminal actions, which are excluded ex vi lermini; and if it had
been the intent to exclude all other actions in which the
government is a party, it would have been more natural and
more accurate to have expressly confined the law to actions
in which the government is not a party, instead of confining
it to civil actions. It would then have corresponded precisely with such intent. Expressed as it is, the intent seems
to embrace, instead of excluding, civil actions in which the
government is a party. Nothing adverse to this view can
be gathered from the exceptions made in the amendment
passed in 1865. These exceptions only relate to evidence
of transactions with, or statements by, a deceased party (who
cannot testify), or by a party under guardianship. In this
case no transactions with, or statements of, the agents of the
United States were attempted to be proved by the defendants who were called as witnesses;-nothing but conversations between the defendants themselves. We think the
witnesses were competent under the act, and that the court
erred in rejecting them.
For this reason the judgment must be REVERSED AND A
NEW TRIAL AWARDED.

The court, however, deem it proper to say that they have
grave doubts whether the facts set up in the special pleas,
and offered to be proved by the witnesses, constitute a valid
defence to the action. But as this point was not discussed by
counsel, we refrain from expressing any opinion upon it.

