740

WILKINS v. ELLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

residence of the witnesses are concerned; but it is denied
that he has been sufficiently specific as to the places where
the use was to be shown. It is said that it is not sufficient
to name the city, but that the particular mill in which the
invention had been used must be pointed out. But we cannot take judicial notice how many, or how few, mills using
Stones may be in any particular locality. In some town
there may be but one. Nor do we think that the party giving notice is bound to be so specific as to relieve the other
from all inquiry or effbrt to investigate the facts. If he
fairly puts his adversary in the way that he may ascertain
all that is necessary to his defence or answer, it is all that
can be required, and he is not bound by his notice to impose
an unnecessary and embarrassing restriction on his own
right of producing proof of what he asserts. We are all,
therefore, of opinion, that when, in addition to the particular
town or city in which such large objects as millstones are
used, the name and residence of the witness by whom that
use is to be proved is also given, there is sufficient precision
and certainty in the notice.*
The questions propounded are accordingly answered: the
first in the affirmative, and the second in the negative.

WILKINS V.

ELLETT,

ADMINISTRATOR.

A voluntary payment of a debt to a foreign administrator held good as
against the claim of an administrator duly appointed at the domicile of
the debtor, in which last place the debt was paid; there having been no

creditors of the intestate in this last place, nor any persons there entitled as distributees.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Tennessee; the case was this:
Quarles being domiciled in the State of Alabama, died
there, and letters of administration were there taken out by
*Phillips

v. Page, 24 Howard, 164.

Dec. 1869.]

WILKINS V.

ELLETT.

Opinion of the court.

one Goodloe, of that State. Wilkins, a resident of Memphis,
Tennessee, owed the estate $3455, and being called upon at
Memphis by Goodloe, the administrator, paid the debt and
took a receipt. Goodloe duly accounted before the Probate
Court in Alabama for the sum thus received. Afterwards,
Ellett, a citizen of the State of Virginia, and who professed
to be next of kin to the deceased, took out letters of administration in Tennessee, and brought this suit against Wilkins
to recover the same debt. There were no creditors or persons entitled as distributees of the intestate in the State of
Tennessee. The court below, holding that the voluntary
payment by Wilkins to the Alabama administrator was in
his own wrong, gave judgment for the plaintiff. Wilkins,
the debtor, now brought the case tothis court; the question,
of course, being whether voluntary payment to the foreign
administrator had discharged the home one.
Mr. D. K. Me-Rae, in support of the judgment below:
The identical question in this case has been presented and
settled in Tennessee.* It is there taken fbr granted as settled
doctrine in England and America, that an administrator appointed in one country is not by virtue of such appointment
entitled to sue, in his official capacity, in any other country.
Ile is a stranger to the debt, without authority to receive or
give acquittance.
Judge Story, who, in Trecothick v. Austin,t uttered a dictum to a contrary effect, directly controverts the position of
the dictum in his Conflict of Laws,T where the question is
properly presented with its qualifications.
Messrs. .tumes and Poston, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It has long been settled, and is a principle of universal
jurisprudence, in all civilized nations, that the personal
Young, Administrator v. O'Neal, 3 Sneed, 55.
- 4 Mason, 16-33.

$ Conflict of Laws,

514, 514 a, 514 b, 515.

WILKINS

V. ELLETT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court..

estate of the deceased is to be regarded, for the purposes of
succession and distribution, wherever situated, as having no
other locality than that of his domicile; and, if he dies intestate, the succession is governed by the law of the place
where he was domiciled at the time of his decease, and not
by the conflicting laws of the various places where the property happened at the time to be situated.* The original
administrator, therefore, with letters taken out at the place
of the domicile, is invested with the title to all the personal
property of the deceased for the purpose of collecting the
effects of the estate, paying the debts, and making distribution of the residue, according to the law of the place, or directions of the will, as the case may be.
It is true, if any portion of the estate is situated in another
country, be cannot recover possession by suit without taking
out letters of administration from the proper tribunal in that
country, as the original letters can confer upon him no extraterritorial authority. The difficulty does not lie in any defect of title to the possession; but in a limitation or qualification of the general principles in respect to personal property
by the comity of nations, founded upon the policy of the
foreign country to protect the -interests of its home creditors.
These letters are regarded as merely ancillary to the original
letters, as to the collection and distribution of the effects;
and generally are simply made subservient to the claims of
the domestic creditors, the residuum being transmitted to the
probate court of the country of the domicile, for the final
settlement of the estate. It is upon this qualification of the
law of comity and consequent inability of the original adninistrator to sue in the foreign country, upon which the
objection is founded to the validity of the voluntary payment by the foreign debtor to him.
There is doubtless some plausibility in it, growing out of
the interest of the home creditors. But it has not been regarded of sufficient weight to carry with it the judicial mind
of the country. With the exception of the case in the State
2 Kent's Commentaries, 429; Story's Conflict of Laws, j 379.

Dec. 1869.]

WALKER V.

WALKER.

Syllabus.

of Tennessee, none have been referred to, nor have our own
researches found any, maintaining the invalidity of the payment. The question has been directly and indirectly before
several of the courts of the States, and the opinions have all
been in one direction--in favor of the validity.*
Mr. Justice Story, in his Conflict of Laws,t has expressed
a doubt as it respects the soundness of the doctrine upon
principles of international law, and which is mainly relied
on in the present case by the defendant in error. He had
affirmed it in Trecothick v. Austin, and he admits in a note,J
that if a debtor be found in a foreign country where the
creditor died, and where he had his domicile, and was sued
by the administrator, he could not protect himself by a plea
that he was liable to pay only to an administrator appointed
at the place of his (the creditor's) domicile. All debts follow
the person, not of the debtor in respect of the right or property, but of the creditor, to whom due.ยง
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

WALKER V.

WALKER'S ExEcUTOR.

1. A covenant by a husbaud for the maintenance of the wife, contained in
a deed of separation between them, through the medium of trustees,
where the consideration is apparent, must now be regarded on authority
as valid, notwithstanding the serious objections to such deeds. It will
accordingly be enforced in equity, if it appear that the deed was not
made in contemplation of a future possible separation, but in respect to

one which was to occur immediately, or for the continuance of one that
bad already taken place.

And this especially if the separation was

occasioned by the misconduct of the husband, and the provision for the
wife's support was reasonable under the circumstances, and no more
* Williams v. Storrs, 6 Johnson's Chancery, 353; Doolittle v.Lewis, 7
1b. 51; Vroom v. Van Horne, 10 Paige, 549, 557; Schultz v. Pulver, 11
Wendell, 361 ; Trecothick v. Austin, 4 Mason, 88; Stevens v. Gaylord, 11

Massachusetts, 256 ; Nisbet v.Stewart, 2 Devereux & Battle, 24; Parsons
v. Lyman, 20 New York, 108.
t
515 a.
I lb. 432.
Thorne v. Watkins, 2 Vesey, Sr., 85.

