THE FAIRBANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Details of the case in the opinion.

THE

FAIRBANKS.

Direct and positive oral testimony on a libel for collision between a steamer
and a brig, going to show that the brig kept properly on her course, at
least until the collision became inevitable, will not be controlled by the
fact that the shape of tbe'wound on the steamer tended to show that the
brig could not have been at the instant of collision on such course, but
must have changed it; it being possible enough that the shape of the
wound was produced by a change in the brig's course, made, in the last
moment, to avoid a collision rendered, in truth, unavoidable by the
steamer's erroneous manonuvres, near the same time.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, in which court the owners of the brig
Santiago filed a libel against the steamer Fairbanks, to recover damages sustained by the brig in a collision with the
steamer.
The collision occurred in a fair, mild night of June. The
weight of testimony from witnesses went to show that the
brig had properly kept on her course, which was about north
by east, and that the steamer, which was running about
south by west, had not properly avoided her. Opposed to
which was a fact, testified to by some witnesses, and which
seemed to inspection to be true, viz., that the steamer had
been struck in the collision by a square blow, indicative of
the fact that the approach of the brig was at right angles.
The District Court decreed in favor of the brig. The Circuit Court on appeal reversed the decree.

Mr. J. C. Carter, for the appellant; Mr.
contra.

. D. Benedict,

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD gave the details of the case, and
delivered the opinion of the court.
Rules and regulations for preventing collisions on navigable waters, between ships and vessels engaged in our
mercantile marine as well as between ships and vessels in
the navy of the United States, have been prescribed by
Congress.

Dec. 1869.]

THE FAIRBANKS.
Details of the case in the opinion.

Steam vessels, when under way, are required to carry a
bright light at foremasthead, so constructed as to show a
uniform and unbroken light over an are of the horizon of
twenty points of the compass, so fixed as to throw the light
ten points on each side of the ship, to wit, from right ahead
to two points abaft the beam, on either side, and of such a
diameter as to be visible, on a dark night with a clear atmosphere, at a distance of at least five miles. They are also
required to carry a green light on the starboard side and a
red light on the port side, so constructed as to throw a uniform and unbroken light over an arc of the horizon of ten
points of the compass, so fixed as to throw the light from
right ahead to two points abaft the beam, the former on the
starboard side and the latter on the port side, and of such
a character respectively as to be visible, on a dark night,
with a clear atmosphere, at a distance of at least two miles.
Both of the colored lights are required to be so fitted with
inboard screens, projecting at least three feet forward from
the light, so as to prevent these lights from being seen across
the bow.*
Sailing ships, under way, are required, by the first-named
act, to carry the same lights as steamships, under way, with
the exception of the white masthead light, which they shall
never carry.
Reference will only be made to two or three of the sailing
rules enacted by Congress, as iione of the others have any
application in this case.
By the fifteenth article it is provided that if two ships, one
of which is, a sailing ship and the other a steamship, are
proceeding in such directions, as to involve risk of collision,
the steamship shall keep out of the way of the sailing ship.
Steamships, when approaching another ship so as to involve
risk of collision, are also required to slacken their speed,
and, if necessary, to stop and reverse; and the eighteenth
article provides that where one of two ships is required to
keep out of the way the other shall keep her course, subject
* 13 Stat. at Large, 58; 14 Id. 228,

11.

Tim

F AIRBANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Details of the case in the opinion.

to the qualifications that due regard must be had to all dangers of navigation, and to any special circumstances which
may exist in any particular case, rendering a departure from
those rules necessary to avoid immediate danger.*
Sailing vessels employed in the mercantile service were
not required to carry lights before the passage of the firstnamed act of Congress, but the sailing rules as previously
defined by the decisions of this court in the particulars under
consideration, were in substance and effect the same as those
enacted by Congress, as appears by several reported cases.t
Beyond question those cases show that a steamship when
approaching a sailing vessel must keep out of the way, and
that sailing vessels are required to keep their course in order
that the steamship may not be led into error or be baffled in
her endeavors to keep out of the way. Bound to keep out
of the way, the steamship may go to the right or left, and
in order that she may determine the matter wisely, so as to
prevent any disaster, the correlative duty is required of the
sailing vessel that she shall keep her course.
Many of the material facts in this case are either without
dispute or are so fully proved as not properly to be regarded
as the subject of controversy. Both parties agree that the
collision occurred at eleven o'clock in the evening of the fifth
of June, 1864, off the coast of New Jersey, some fifteen
miles east of the ttighlands. Just before it occurred the
brig was heading north by east, and was bound for the port
of New York on a voyage from Turk's Island, and the witnesses agree that the wind was southeast and that the brig,
when closehauled, would lay within six points of the wind,
so that she had the wind five points free. Though not stormy
it was rather dark, as there was some haze on the water, but
the brig was sailing four or five knots an hour, and there
were no other vessels in sight. On the other hand, the
steamer was bound on a voyage from the port of New York
18 Stat. at Large, 61.
t Steamship Company v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 888; St. John r. Paine,
10 Id. 583; The Genesee Chief, 12 Id. 461.

:Dec. 1869.]

TIlE FAIRBANKS.
Opinion of the court.

to Washington, and was heading south by west, and her
speed was eight knots an hour.
Some conflict exists in the testimony as to the point whether
the brig had the required lights and whether she kept her
course as alleged in the libel, or whether she changed it as
alleged'in the answer, but it will be sufficient to state the
facts as they appear to the court without reproducing the
testimony of the witnesses or attempting to reconcile their
contradictory statements.
The vessels were less than half a mile apart when the brig
was descried by the steamer, and it is satisfactorily proved
that the brig had the required lights and that her lookouts
were properly stationed on the forward part of' the vessel.
At that time it was the master's watch on board the steamer,
but the better opinion from the evidence is that he was in
the pilot-house and not on deck, as stated in his deposition.
lie admits, however, that he saw the approaching vessel, and
that he knew that it was a sailing vessel, and his statement
is that he changed the course of the steamer from south by
west to south-southeast, which cannot be correct, because if
he had done so there could not have been any collision, as
the speed of the steamer was double that of the brig. But
the second mate was on deck at the same time, and he states
that the master was in the pilot-house, and that he went to
the pilot-house where the master was and told him that there
was a vessel ahead, and that the master directed the man at
the wheel to change the course of the steamer half a point
to the eastward; that he then went forward and walked
around; that it appearing to him that the brig bad' also
changed her course in the same way, he went back to the
pilot-house and so informed the master, and that the master
then told the wheelsman to let the steamer come up half a
point more to the eastward. When the master gave the
second order he came out of the pilot-house, as the second
mate testifies, and looked at the approaching vessel. Beyond
question he must at once have discovered that the order just
given was insufficient to prevent a collision, and he immediately returned to the pilot-house and directed the helms-

THE FAIRBANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

man to change the course to southeast, which is the order he
should have given in the first instance. But it is evident
that his memory is unreliable, as it is clear that the collision
could not have occurred if he had given that order, or the
one he says he gave, when the brig was first seen by the
steamer.
Precautions must be seasonable to be of any avail, but it
was too late when he gave the last order, as the second mate
testifies that the jibboom of the brig, by the time the order
was obeyed, was not more than thirty yards from the steamer.
Even if tested alone by the testimony of the witnesses on
board the steamer the court is fully satisfied that the first
two orders were not of a character to avoid a collision, and
that the third order was not given in season to accomplish
the desired result. Confirmed as this theory is by the testimony of the mate and pilot of the brig, the court has no
hesitation in adopting it as correct.
Suppose the fact to be so, still it is contended by the claimants that the decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed,
because they insist that the brig changed her course, and
that if she had kept it, as she was bound to do, the collision
would not have occurred. Grant that the conclusion would
follow if the theory of fact involved in the proposition was
correct, still the views of the claimants cannot be sustained,
as the fact alleged is not satisfactorily proved.
From the time the steamer was first seen to the time of
the collision the deck of the brig was in charge of her mate,
and he testifies positively that the brig did not change her
course, as is supposed by the claimants; and the pilot of the
brig, who went below before the collision, testifies that her
course when he left the deck was north by east, and that
when he came on deck, just before the collision, no alteration had been made in the course. No witness examined in
the case on either side is able to support that theory by any
positive statement, but the attempt of the claimants is to
establish the theory by circumstances, of which the principal
one is the appearance of the steamer where she was struck
by the brig on her starboard bow. They contend that it was

Dec. 1869.]

FLANDERS v. TWEED.

Syllabus.

a square blow, and that the character of the injury to the
steamer shows that the approach of the brig was at right
angles and not head on, as they were substantially approaching when each was first descried by the other.
Although it must be admitted that the argument is ingenious and exceedingly well put, still the decisive answer
to it is that the circumstances adduced do not satisfy the
court that any such change of course was made by the brig
as is supposed, cert.ainly not until the proximity of the two
vessels was so close that a collision was inevitable, and then
it is quite clear that the steamer made a sudden change, and
it may be that the brig also changed her course, as is supposed by the claimants. Fault, under such circumstances,
will not be imputed to the vessel required to keep her course
if she was otherwise blameless.* An error committed by the
vessel required to keep her course, after the approaching
vessel is so near that the collision is inevitable, will not impair her right to recover for the injuries resulting from the
collision if she was otherwise without fault, for the reason
that those who put the vessel in that peril are chargeable
with the error, and must answer for the consequences which
it occasioned.t Examined in the light of these suggestions,
our conclusion from the evidence is that the steamer was
wholly in fault.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded with direction to
AFFIRM THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

FLANDERS

V. TWEED.

1. The court expresses itself as disposed to hold parties who, under the act
of March 3d, 1865, waive a trial by jury and substitute the court for
the jury, to a reasonably strict conformity to the regulations of the act,
if they desire to save to themselves all the rights and privileges which
belong to them in trials by jury at the common law.
" Steamship Company v. Rumball, 21 Howard, 384.

t Bentley v. Coyne, 4 Wallace, 512.

