Dec. 1869.]

IN THE MATTERS Or HOWARD.

175

Statement of the case.

There is nothing in the record to excuse the conduct of
the vessel, or to entitle the owner to any part of the stipulated compensation.
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. We think
the decree of the Circuit Court was in all things correct,
and it is
AFFIRMED.

IN THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.
1. Where there is a fund in court to be distributed among different claimants, a decree of distribution will not preclude a claimant not embraced
in its provisions, but, having rights similar to those of other claimants
who are thus embraced, from asserting by bill or petition, previous to
the distribution, his right to share in the fund, and in the prosecution
of his suit, he is entitled, upon a proper showing, to all the remedies by
injunction, or order, which a court of equity usually exercises to prevent the relief sought from being defeated.
2. The judgment, or decree of an inferior court, when affirmed by this
court, is only conclusive as between the parties upon the matters involved. It does not conclude the rights of third parties not before the
court, or in any respect affect their rights. It acquires no additional
efficacy by its affirmance. As an adjudication upon the rights of the
parties between themselves it has the same operation before as after its
affirmance.
8. Accordingly where a decree of a Circuit Court of the United States,
affirmed by this court, had determined that the complainants and certain intervening claimants, were entitled to a fund in the hands of the
receiver of the court, and ordered the distribution of the fund among
them, it was held that it did not preclude third parties from proceeding
by bill to assert their claims to share in the fund, before its distribution ; and to prevent such distribution, before their claims could be considered and determined, they were entitled, upon presenting a primd
facie case, to a restraining order or injunction from the court.

THESE were two motions which were heard together, as
they involved a consideration of similar questions, and grew
out of the same facts. The first motion was for a peremptory
v. Wilson, lb. 267, 469; Lidard v. Lopez, Ib. 453; Benner v. Equitable Ins.
Co., 6 Allen, 222; Chase v. Alliance Ins. Co., 9 Id. 311; Atkinson v. Richey,
10 East, 531 ; Vliebroom v. Chapman, 13 Meeson & Welsby, 230.

IN

THE MATTERS

OF HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

mandamus to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Iowa (the alternative writ having
been heretofore issued and returned), commanding them to
execute a decree of that court rendered in the case of 1toward
and others v. The City of Davenport and others, by distributing
certain funds in its custody. The second motion was to
dismiss the appeal from the final decree, rendered in a subsequent suit, affecting the distribution of those funds.
The facts out of which these cases arose, were substantially as follows:
In 1854 the legislature of Iowa incorporated a company,
styled the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, to
construct a railroad from Davenport to Council Bluffs, in that
State, with a branch to Oskaloosa. To raise the necessary
funds for the construction of the road the company executed,
previous to 1861, several mortgages upon its property to secure its bonds, issued at different times, amounting to over
six millions of dollars. The company also received, previous to 1861, in payment of subscriptions of stock, bonds
to a large amount of certain cities and counties in the State,
through which the road was located, the payment of which
bonds was guaranteed by a special indorsement upon each.
With the guaranty of this indorsement it disposed of the
bonds to different parties.
In 1865 the company became embarrassed and insolvent,
and in February, 1866, a suit was brought in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Iowa for the
foreclosure of the mortgages upon its property. In May
following the suit resulted in a decree for the sale of the
property, and in July of the same year a sale was made under
the decree, by a master in chancery, to the Chicago, Rock
Island, and Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation created
by the State of Iowa. The foreclosure and sale were made!
pursuant to an arrangement entered into between the stockholders and the greater number, but not all, of the bondholders, and other creditors of the company, by which it was
agreed that the sum of $5,500,000 in bonds of the purchasing company should be given for the property, and applied

Dec.

1869.]

IN THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.
Statement of the case.

to the payment of the bonds secured by the different mortgages of the insolvent company, in conformity with a specified scale, with the exception of an amount equal to sixteen
per cent. on the capital stock of that company, namely,
$552,400, which should go to its stockholders.
Previous to this time Mark Howard and John Weber had
severally recovered judgments against the city of Davenport,
and also against the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company, upon certain bonds issued by that city to aid in the
construction of the railroad, and guaranteed by that company. In the distribution of the proceeds to be received
upon the sale of the property of the insolvent company no
provision was made for the payment of these judgments, and
on the 9th of July, 1866, the day on which the sale mentioned
under the decree of foreclosure was made, Howard and Weber brought a suit in equity in the same court against the
parties to the foreclosure suit to obtain payment of their derands out of the proceeds, which, by the arrangement mentioned, were to go to the stockholders. In their bill they
set forth the judgments recovered by them against the Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Company; that the company
was insolvent; that all its property had been sold under the
decree of foreclosure; and that there was no other property
out of which these judgments could be made than the
$552,400 which was to be received by the stockholders out
of the proceeds of the sale.
During the progress of the suit fourteen other persons appeared and presented claims of a similar character, to an
amount exceeding seven hundred thousand dollars, against
the same fund. These parties are designated in the proceedings as " intervening claimants joining in the bill." On
application of the complainants and these intervening claimants a receiver was appointed by the court to collect and hold
the fund which they were seeking to subject to the payment
of their claims. This officer subsequently received from the
Chicago, Rock Island, and Pacific Railroad Company, the
purchasing company, in its first mortgage bonds, with interest coupons attached, the amount which was to go to the
VOL. IX.

12

IN THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

stockholders of the insolvent company, and has ever since
held the same in his custody, subject to the order of the
court.
In May, 1868, a final decree was rendered in the suit, adjudging that the complainants and intervening claimants
were entitled, as creditors of the Mississippi and Missouri
Railroad Company, to so much of the purchase-money of its
property as was agreed to be reserved for the stockholders;
and directing the purchasing company to pay the same, less
a small sum allowed fbr over-payment, in cash or its bonds,
to the receiver; and directing the receiver, if paid in bonds,
to convert tie bonds into money, and, after satisfiing certain
costs, distribute the proceeds to the complainants and intervening claimants pro rala, in proportion to the amounts of
their respective claims, which were stated. On appeal to this
court this decree was affirmed, and the mandate to the Circuit
Court, issued in pursuance of the judgment of' aflirmance,
commanded " that such execution and proceedings be had
in said cause, as according to right and justice, and the laws
of the United States, ought to be had, the said appeal notwithstanding."
Whilst the appeal was pending Frederick A. Foster presented a petition to the Circuit Court, setting forth that he
was a holder of certain bonds of the Mississippi and Missouri
Railroad Company, secured by a mortgage on its property,
which had never been paid; that he was not a party to the'
arrangement by which, upon a sale of the property, as already
mentioned, a certain portion of the proceeds received were
to be paid to the stockholders, and insisting that the fund
thus realized was applicable to the payment of these bonds,
and praying fir an order restraining the distribution of the
fund in the hands of the receiver, and directing that upon
proper pleadings an issue be joined between the petitioner
and other holders of bonds who never assented to the arrangement mentioned, and the complainants and intervenors,
to settle the priorities of the parties in an application of the
fund.
Subsequently three other parties, MeCollum, Bardwell, and

Dec. 1869.]

IN THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.

179

Statement of the case.

McComb, presented similar petitions to the Circuit Court,
setting forth that they were also holders of bonds of the insolvent railroad company, which had never been paid, and
asking that the proceeds derived from a sale of its property,
in the hands of the receiver, be applied to the payment of
these bonds, in preference to the claims of any parties to the
suit of Howard and others.
In May, 1869, the court denied the prayer of the petitioners, but allowed them to file their petitions, and required
them to file a consolidated bill at the next term of the court
against all the parties to the suit, setting up their respective
claims with greater particularity than in the petitions.
In July following, the petitioners, Foster, McCollum, Bardwell, and McComb, filed their consolidated bill against Howard and all the other parties to the original suit, asserting
their claims as mortgage bondholders to the fund in the hands
of the receiver. The bonds amounted to about seventy-two
thousand dollars, with large arrears of interest, for which
they claimed a lien upon the fund in preference to the claims
of Howard and others, and if that was not allowed, then
they claimed the right, as general creditors, to share with
them in the distribution of the fund.
All the defendants answered the bill, denying that the complainants had any lien on the fund as mortgagees, or any
right to the fund as general creditors, and contending that
if they were such creditors, the defendants were entitled, as
a reward of their superior diligence, to be first paid out of
the fund. No objection was made by them that after a final
decree, affirmed by this court, directing a distribution of the
fund, it was too late for the complainants to file their bill to
reach the fund, or to share in its distribution.
In November, 1869, the Circuit Court heard the case and
rendered a final decree, rejecting the claim of McCollum,
and allowing the claims of the other three complainants,
Foster, Bardwell, and McComb, to a limited amount as
general creditors.
From this decree the complainants appealed: McCollum,
because his claim was entirely rejected; Foster, Bardwell,

IN

TUE MATTERS OF HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the motions.

and McComb, because they were allowed to come in only as
general creditors. The appeal was now pending in this court.
After this appeal was perfected, Howard and others, the
complainants and intervening claimants in the original suit,
applied to the Circuit Court for a rule on the receiver to
proceed to execute the decree rendered therein by the distribution of the fund in his hands, as provided by the decree
in that case, notwithstanding the appeal of Foster and his
associates, or of any of them; or in case the court should be
of opinion that the motion could not be granted in full, that
then the receiver should be ordered to proceed to execute
the decree, except as to such portion of the fund as to which
execution was suspended by order of the court made at the
May Term. This motion the Circuit Court denied.
The same parties then applied to this court for a writ of
mandamus to the judges of that court, commanding them
forthwith to execute the decree rendered at the May Term,
1868, and affirmed by this court, or to execute the decree
by distributing all the fund, excepting sufficient to cover the
claims of the appellants. This court, as is usual in applications for a mandamus, on a priiafacieshowing, allowed the
alternative writ, which being returned, the parties now asked
for the peremptory writ. The parties at the same time moved
to dismiss the appeal from the final decree in the above suit
of Foster and his associates.
Messrs. Grant and Rogers, in support of the motions:
1. A judgment or decree affirmed by this court cannot be
altered by new pleadings or evidence in the court below,
but must be executed in the exact manner in which it is
affirmed. Such is the rule in the State courts.*
The question has been conclusively settled in this court
by a series of decisions.t In Sibbald's case this court said
* Ogden v. Bowen, 4 Scamnion, 801; Abrams v. Lee, 14 Illinois, 167;

Chickering v. Failes, 29 Illinois, 802; Biscoe v. Tucker, 14 Arkansas, 515,

523; Miner v. Medberry, 7 Wisconsin, 100t 102; Young v. Frost, I Md.
Chan. 877.
t Cameron v. MeRoberts, 3 Wheaton, 591 ; Brocket v. Brocket, 2 Howard,

238; Mc]Kicken v. Perrin, 18 Id. 507, 511.

Dee. 1869.]

IN THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.

181

Argument in support of the motions.

that " no principle is better settled, or of more universal
application, than that no court can reverse or annul its final
decrees or judgments, for errors of fact or law, after the term
at which they have been rendered, unless for clerical mistakes, or to reinstate a cause dismissed by mistake; from
which it follows, that no change or modification can be made
which may substantially vary or affect it in any material
thing. Bills of review in cases of equity, and writs of error
coram nobis, at law," they say, "are exceptions, which cannot affect the present motion." They add:
" When the Supreme Court have executed their power in
a cause before them, and it requires further action, it sends a
mandate to the court below. Whatever is before this court,
and is disposed of; is considered finally settled. The inferior
court is bound by the law of the case, itud must carry it into
execution according to the mandate. They cannot vary or
examine it for any other purpose than execution, or give any
other or further relief, or review it upon any matter decided
on appeal for error apparent, or intermeddle with it further
than to settle so much as has been remanded. After a mandate, no rehearing will be granted. It is never done in the
House of Lords. And on a subsequent appeal nothing is
brought up but the proceedings subsequent to the mandate."*
2. If it be argued that Foster and others were not parties
to the decree and not bound by it, we answer, that if all the
necessary parties were not before the court when the case
was originally heard, it was the duty of the court to require
the plaintiffs to bring them in, and a failure to do so was
ground of error in that cause.
But this court, in affirming the decree, decided that neither
the bondholders nor stockholders were necessary parties, and
they held, by implication at least, that no other parties were
necessary, and the plaintiffs in Howard's suit had a right to
* Ex parte Sibbalds, 12 Peters, 488, 492; Washington Bridge Company v.
Stewart, 3 Howard, 413; Chaires v. The United States, 3 Howard, 611-620;
Bank United States v. Moss, 6 Howard, 31-41; Southard v. Russell, 16

Howard, 647, 571; McLaughlin v.O'Rourke, 12 Iowa, 469, 663.

IN

THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

file a bill as general creditors for themselves alone, and thus
gain as at law a preference by the judgment in their favor
over other creditors of the same degree who may not have
used equal diligence.* iNo right to intervene in this cause.t
Messrs. F. Withrow and S. W. Fuller, contra, citing Gillespie
v. Alexander,t Williams v. Gibbs,ยง and other English and
American cases.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
There is no ground for supposing any intention on the
part of the circuit judges, or of either of them, to evade or
disobey the mandate of this court. Their action has been
dictated entirely from an opinion held by them that parties
asserting a right to share in a common fund in the custody
of the court, and presenting a prima facie case in support of
such asserted right, are entitled to be heard at any time before its actual distribution, although a decree ordering such
distribution in a litigation between other parties may have
been entered. Whether in this opinion they are sustained
by the law, is the question presented for our consideration.
We are not called upon to determine the character of the
claims presented, whether they constitute liens upon the
fund in the hands of the receiver, or stand as simple debts
against an insolvent company, or whether the right, if any
ever existed, of the holders to share in the fund has been
lost by their laches. The question is not as to the merits of
the claims, but whether the Circuit Court was forbidden by
the force of its previous decree, when affirmed by this court,
irom considering the claims at all.
* Gordon v. Lowell, 21 Maine, 251; Lucas v. Atwood, 2 Stewart, 378;

Corning v. White, 2 Paige, 567; Ogilvie v. Knox Insurance Company, 2
Black, 539.
f Brunson v. Railroad Company, 2 Black, 524; United States Bank P.
Burke, 4 Blackford, 145; George v. Williamson, 26 Missouri, 190; Myers t.
Zanesville Co., 11 Ohio, 273; Same v. Same, 13 Ohio, 197.
1 3 Russell, 130.
17 Howard, 257.

Dec. 1869.]

IN THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.
Opinion of the court.

Undoubtedly it is the duty of all inferior courts to yield
a prompt obedience to the mandate of this court, or, in other
words, to treat as conclusive the judgment of this court upon
the law and facts presented to it in appropriate form for consideration. Any other conduct would be subversive of the
relation which the Constitution intends that inferior tribunals
shall hold to this court. But the obedience thus due is not
a blind obedience, acting upon the letter of the judgment
affirmed, or mandate ordered, without any consideration of
the rights of persons not parties to the litigation in which
the judgment was entered. The judgment of an inferior
court, when affirmed by this court, is only conclusive as between the parties upon the matters involved. Viewed sinply as an adjudication between them, it is not open to question. It must be followed and obeyed. The inferior court
cannot reopen the case and allow new proceedings to be taken,
or further evidence to be given, or new defences to be offered,,
upon any ground whatever. It must execute the judgment
or decree, and only for that purpose has it any authority
over it. Such is the purport of the numerous cases cited by
the counsel for the relators. But they go no further. None
of them suggest even the proposition that the judgment or
decree affirmed concludes the rights of third parties not before the court, or in any respect affects their rights. It would
have been against all principle and all reason had they asserted
anything of the kind. There is, indeed, a class of cases affecting the personal status of parties, in which a judgment
necessarily binds the whole world, but it is not of these we
are speaking. We refer to judgments at law or decrees in
chancery, affecting rights of parties to property. They bind
only the parties before the court and those who stand in
privity with them.
The counsel of the relators seek to apply the conclusive
character of such judgments and decrees between parties to
persons not parties, under the supposition, it would seem
from their argument, that they require some additional effi-.
cacy from their affirmance, by this court. But they acquire
no additional efficacy by such affirmance. As adjudications

IN

THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

upon the rights of the parties between themselves they have
the same operation before as after their affirmance.
The decree in the case of Howard and others v. The City of
Davenport and others, determined that the complainants and
the intervening claimants were entitled to the fund in the
hands of the receiver as against the defendants. It did not
determine, and could not determine, that Foster and his
associates had not equal or greater claims to the fund than
either of those parties. They had, therefore, the same right
to proceed by bill or other appropriate remedy, if there be
one, to assert any claims or equity to the fund which they
possessed, as they might have done if no such suit as that
of Howard and others v. The City of Davenport and others, had
ever been commenced or carried to final decree. And in
the prosecution of their suit they were entitled, upon a
proper showing, to all the remedies by injunction or order,
which a court of equity usually exercises to prevent the relief sought from being defeated.
The general doctrine that where there is a fund in court
to be distributed among different claimants, a decree of distribution will not preclude a claimant not embraced in its
provisions, but, having rights similar to those of other claimants who are thus embraced, from asserting by bill or petition his right to share in the fund, is established by numerous authorities, both in England and the United States.
Several of these are cited by counsel, to two of which we
will refer. The first is that of Gillespie v. Alexander.* That
was a suit for the administration of the estate of General
Gillespie. After several debts against the estate had been
proved before a master and been paid, the court, in January,
1825, decreed a distribution of the residue of the fund in
court to the unsatisfied legatees. In November, subsequently,
a party appeared claiming to be a creditor of Gillespie, and
petitioned the court for liberty to prove his demand, and
liberty was given. In July of the following year the master
reported that there was due the petitioner over sixteen hun* 3 Russell, 180.

Dec. 1869.]

IN THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.

185

Opinion of the court.

dred pounds. In the meantime the fund bad been apportioned under the decree, and part of it had been paid in discharge of some of the legacies. The master of the rolls
ordered that the debt to the petitioner should be apportioned
among the funds of the different legatees, whose legacies
still remained in court, observing that the legatees were not
without remedy, as they could call on the other legatees to
contribute. From this order an appeal was taken to the
chancellor, and the principal objection urged to the order
was similar to the objection urged in this case, that the
creditor was concluded by the decree directing distribution,
but Lord Eldon, in deciding the appeal, said:
"Although the language of the decree, where an account
of debts is directed, is that those who do not come in shall
be excluded from the benefit of that decree, yet the course
is to permit a creditor, he paying the costs of the proceedings, to prove his debt, as long as there happens to be a residuary fund in court, or in the hands of the executor, and
to pay him out of that residue. If a creditor does not come
in till after the executor has paid away the residue, he is not
without a remedy, though he is barred the benefit of that
decree. If he has a mind to sue the legatees and bring back
the fund, he may do so, but he cannot affect the legatees except by suit, and he cannot affect the executor at all."
And the chancellor ordered that the debt should be apportioned to the shares of all the legatees, and that the petitioner should be paid the sums apportioned to the shares
remaining in court, and be at liberty to apply against the
legatees who had been paid, and against funds which might
subsequently come in, for the balance due him.
The other case to which we will refer is that of Williams
v. Gibbes, decided by this court and reported in the seventeenth of Howard. In that case, the County Court of the
Sixth Judicial District of Maryland bad, by its decree, rendered in December, 1846, awarded to the executors of one
Oliver, the proceeds of a share of one Williams in an association known as the Baltimore Company. Upon appeal to
the Court of Appeals of the State, the decree of the County

IN THE MATTERS OF HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Court was, in this respect, affirmed. In 1852, six years after
the entry of the decree, the administrator of Williams filed
a bill, in the Supreme Court of Baltimore City, against the
executors of Oliver, for the proceeds' of Williams's share,
averring that neither he nor Williams was present, or a party
to, or bound by, any proceeding, or order, or decree of the
County Court, or of the Court of Appeals, and that the settlement and adjustment of the amount of the partnership
funds of the Baltimore Company, and of the charges, commissions, and costs to which they were liable in solido, and
the distribution of the remainder of the funds by the decree
of the court to the several shares, which the members of the
company were entitled to, were not binding upon him or his
intestate.
0
The case was transferred from the State court to the Circuit Court of the United States, where the bill was dismissed.
On appeal to this court the decree of dismissal was reversed.
Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for the court, said:
"Now, the principle is well settled in respect to these
proceedings in chancery, for the distribution of a common
fund among the several parties interested, either on the
application of the trustee of the fund, the executor or administrator, legatee, or next of kin, or on the application of
any party in interest, that an absent party, who had no notice
of the proceedings, and not guilty of wilful laches or unreasonable neglect, will not be concluded by the decree of
distribution from the assertion of his right by bill or petition
against the trustee, executor, or administrator; or in case
they have distributed the fund in pursuance of an order of
the court, against the distributees."
And after referring to various cases from the English
courts, and among others to that of Gillespie v. Alexander,
already cited, said:
"The cases above referred to relate to the rights of creditors and next of kin; but the principle is equally applicable to
all parties interested in a common fund brought into a court
of equity for distribution among the several claimants."
These cases, and the general principles governing courts

Dec. 1869.]

FRISBIE V. WHITNEY.
Statement of the case.

of equity in the disposition of a common fund, of which
there are several claimants, are sufficient to show that the
judges of the Circuit Court were justified in authorizing
Foster and his associates to file their consolidated bill, and
thus present for consideration their claims to share in the
fund in the hands of the receiver, and in withholding the
distribution of the fund under the decree in the case of
iloward and others v. The City of Davenport and others, until
such claims could be considered and determined.
Whether in the determination of these claims the Circuit
Court decided rightly or otherwise, can only be settled upon
the hearing of the appeal from its decree.
It follows that the motion for a mandamus, and the motion
to dismiss the appeal from the final decree, must both be
DENIED.

FRISBIE V. WHITNEY.

1. Occupation and improvement on the public lands with a view to preemption, do not confer a vested right in the land so occupied.
2. It does confer a preference over others in the purch-se of such land by
the bonS fide settler, which will enable him to protect his possession
against other individuals, and which the land officers are bound to respect.
8. This inchoate right may be protected by the courts against the claims of
other persons who have not an equal or superior right, but it is not valid
against the United States.
4. The power of Congress over the public lands, as conferred by the Constitution, can only be restrained by the courts, in cases where the land

has ceased to be government property by reason of a right vested in
some person or corporation.
5. Such a vested right, under the pre-emption laws, is only obtained when
the purchase-money has been paid, and the receipt of the proper land
officer given to the purchaser.

6. Until this is done, it is within the legal and constitutional competency
of Congress to withdraw the land from entry or sale, though this may
defeat the imperfect right of the settler.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
In March, 1862, and for many years before, there was a

