Dec. 1869.]

THE

QUICKSTEP.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The section of the Bankrupt Law relied on, we think,
governs the present case. It seems to require that Masterson, the assignee, be substituted as appellant for Herndon,
the bankrupt, who may be said to be civiliter morluus, precisely as an executor or administrator would be made party
instead of an appellant actually deceased; and an order
will be
MADE ACCORDINGLY.

THE QUICKSTEP.
1. Where the District and the Circuit Court concur in their view of facts in
a collision case in admiralty, the case will come before this court with
every presumption in favor of the correctness of the decision appealed
from.
2. The fact that in a libel for collision a contract of towage is recited in the
libel, does not necessarily convert the libel into a proceeding on the contract. Where the real grievance alleged is a wrong suffered by the
libellant in the destruction of his boat, by the carelessness and mismanagement of the boat libelled, the reference to the contract is to be regarded as made by way of inducement to the real grievance.
3. An objection of a too general allegation of injury should be made in the
court below. It cannot be made here for the first time and after the
t
case has been heard below.
4. In admiralty, an omission to state some facts which prove to be material
but which cannot have occasioned any surprise to the opposite party,
will not be allowed to work injury to the libellant, on appeal, if the
court can see that there was no design on his part in omitting to state
them.
5. It is the duty of a vessel which undertakes to tow other boats, to see that
the tow is properly made up and that the lines are strong and securely
fastened.
6. A, party who does not appeal, can be heard only in support of the decree.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York in a matter of collision; the case, as assumed
by this court upon the evidence, was this:
One Byrne, the captain and owner of the canal-boat Citizen, laden with wheat, contracted with the captain of the

THE QUICKSTEP.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tug Quickstep to tow the canal-boat from New York to New
Brunswick. Byrne did not know how many boats the captain of the tug would
Bridle
take. The tow, however, when completed,
consisted of six boats,
-two abreast, on each
side of the tug, and
one directly in the rear
of each of the two
boats, as shown in
the upper part of the
drawing. The Citizen
..
was on the port side,
and nearest the tug,
Lj
and the Wide World
was in the same position on the starboard
side. The stern of the
boats, abreast of the
tug, were about even
with the stern of the
tug, but their bows
extended further than
the bow of the tug, and
the bows of' the Citizen and Wide World
were coupled by what
is called a "bridle
line;" the line having
been furnished by the
towing tug.
This fleet proceeded
on their voyage with
safety until they approached a point in
the harbor of New York, known as Robbins' Reef lighthouse, when the boat in the rear of the boats on the port

Dec. 1869.]

THE QUICKSTEP'.
Statement of the case.

side of the tug became detached. The weather, which was
fair when the boat set off from New York, was now somewhat rough, with a certain amount of wind. The tug stopped
as soon as the boat broke loose, and then proceeded to
back. In backing the bridle-line parted, and the tug got into
the trough of the sea, and collided with the Citizen, knocking two holes in her starboard side near the stern, and producing so considerable an injury that she ultimately sunk;
her crew, however, not perhaps having exerted themselves
as perseveringly as they might have done, to save her. The
matter is exhibited in the lower part of the diagram.
In the course of the difficulty two other of the boats got
loose. One of them cast anchor and was saved at the spot.
The other, loaded with iron, drifted about all night and was
picked up uninjured on the next morning.
The owner of the Citizen libelled the Quickstep in the
District Court of New York.
The libel alleged "a contract" with the steam-tug to tow
the canal-boat to New Brunswick for a stipulated price, deviation to another dock before setting off,unreasonable delay
in the performance of the contract. It alleged further, that
the canal-boat was staunch, &c.", and under the complete
control of the steam-tug; that when near the light-house on
Robbins' Reef,the boat which had been hitched to "the boat
of the libellant by some means became detached, that thereupon the steam-tug attempted to pick her up, and to that
end commenced to back in so negligent and careless a manner as to endanger the safety of the boat of your libellant;
that the libellant protested and warned the master or those in
charge of said steam-tug that by so doing they would sink his
boat, but the said parties paid no heed to his protest or warning, but continued to back said steam-tug, and handled and
managed the same in such a careless and unseamanlike manner that the same said steam-tug struck against the canalboat with great force and violence, breaking in her starboard
side, and causing her to fill with water and sink; that the
libellant did all in his power to prevent the said loss; that
the same was without fault on his part, and occurred entirely

THtE QUICKSTEP.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

through the carelessness and mismanagement of the master
and mariners on board of the steam-tug." In conclusion,
the libel prayed damages.
The answer substantially denied these allegations and set
up the plea of inevitable accident. The evidence upon the
trial was quite conflicting, but the case, as above given, was
the case which this court considered as established by it.
The District Court, giving no opinion and finding no facts
whatever, held that the libellant and claimant were both in
fault, and divided the damages. On appeal, the Circuit
Court gave an opinion of a few words, in which, however,
no facts were found-and affirmed the decree. The owners
of the steam-tug appealed.
Mr. Donohue,for the appellant:
The circumstance that the decrees in both courts below
were against us, will perhaps be relied on as a reason why
the decree here should be against us also. But the object of
an admiralty appeal is to bring up the facts in the cause,
and to have a rehearing on them; and while the court may,
from time to time, speak of not reviewing the facts, it is
submitted that both on principle they are bound to do it,
and in precedents have done it.* Only where the evidence
is balanced will they refuse to reverse.
But here the case comes to this court free from all question
of a prior disposition of any fact. It is open for judgment
upon the evidence; for we know not on what grounds either
court below adjudged the case, whether on fact or on law.
The libel is too general in its terms. Alleging negligence
and misconduct generally, it wholly omits to state what particular acts of the tug produced the catastrophe. We cannot
reply to such allegations. Moreover, it sets up a contract
made to tow direct, and a deviation; that we took too many
boats; that in backing to pick up another boat we injured
this boat and sunk her. But the case shows that proof as to
* Schooner Catharine, ad. Dickinson, 17 Howard, 170; Sturgis v. The

.L. Mabey, 21 Id. 451.

Dec. 1869.]

THE QUICKSTEP.
Opinion of the court.

the contract to go direct failed. No such contract is in the
least established.
The accident is readily accounted for by a vis major. It
occurred in a storm. The line parted, without our fault,
and the only mode left for us was to back. On our side,
although not called on to do anything but to wait until the
opposite side have made out a case, we yet fully proved an
entire want of negligence. Having started with fair weather,
and with reason to suppose we could tow through, we met
with a severe storm, which broke this line, and the vessel
being deeply loaded, and not protected, sunk.
But whatever view is to be taken of the case, the decree
must be reversed. A decree which finds no fact or facts, but
a simple legal conclusion, cannot be examined.
Mr. Carter, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The difficulty of discovering the truth in collision cases,
which are mainly trials of fact, grows out of the character
of the evidence, which is always more or less conflicting.
The court that can see the witnesses, hear their statements,
observe their demeanor, and compare their degree of intelligence, is better able than an appellate tribunal to reconcile
differences in testimony, or, if that be not possible, to ascertain the real nature of the transaction. The District Court
that tries the case in the first instance enjoys this advantage,
and the finding of facts by it, if followed by the concurrent
judgment of the Circuit Court, is entitled to so much weight
in this court, that it will be presumed a correct conclusion
was reached, and before the decision will be disturbed it
must manifestly appear that it was wrong. The testimony
in this case was heard by the district jtidge, who decided
that the damages should be divided, and the Circuit Court,
on appeal, affirmed his judgment, and the case, therefore,
comes before us with every presumption strongly in favor
of the correctness of the decision of the lower courts.
It is unnecessary to travel through the evidence, to a great

THE QUICKSTEP.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

extent contradictory, in order to vindicate our views concerning it. It would serve no useful purpose to do so, and
we shall content ourselves with applying the law to a state
of facts which we consider the evidence establishes, without
any attempt to discuss it. The libel was not filed to recover
damages for the breach of a contract, as is contended, but
to obtain compensation for the commission of a tort. It is
true it asserts a contract of towage, but this is done by way
of inducement to the real grievance complained of, which is
the wrong suffered by the libellant in the destruction of his
boat by the carelessness and mismanagement of the captain
of the Quickstep. It is objected that the libel is too general
in its terms, and is defective because it does not state the
particular acts of negligence and misconduct on the part of
the tug which produced the injury; but if this were necessary, the objection should have been interposed at an earlier
stage of the proceedings, and cannot be taken, for the first
time, after the cause has reached this court. It is always
better to describe the particular circumstances attending the
transaction; but in admiralty an omission to state some facts
which prove to be material, but which cannot have occasioned any surprise to the opposite party, will not be allowed
to work any injury to the libellant, if the court can see there
was no design on his part in omitting to state them.*
We now pass to the facts of the case.
The inquiry is, who is to blame for what has happened ?
Clearly not the Citizen, for it does not appear that her conduct in any way contributed to the accident. If the tug, in
constructing the tow, used the lines furnished by the different boats, yet as each boat was independent of the other, no
responsibility can attach to either for the breaking of the
line, which she did not provide, and had nothing to do with
making fast. In this case neither the bridle-line nor the
line that first parted were supplied by the Citizen, and she
ought not to suffer for their insufficiency. It is well settled
that canal-boats and barges in tow are considered as being
The Clement, 2 Curtis, 363.

:Dec. 1869.]

THE QUICKSTEP.
Opinion of the court.

under the control of the tug, and the latter is liable for this
collision, unless she can show it was not occasioned by her
fault.*
It was the duty of the tug, as the captains of the canalboats had no voice in making up the tow, to see that it was
properly constructed, and that the lines were sufficient and
securely fastened. This was an equal duty, whether she
furnished the lines to the boats, or the boats to her. In the
nature of the employment, her officers could tell better than
the men on the boats what sort of a line was required to secure the boats together, alid to keep them in their positions.
If she failed in this duty she was guilty of a maritime fault.
The parting of the line connecting the boat in the rear on the
port side with the fleet, was the commencement of the difficulty that led to this accident. In the effort to recover this
boat the consequences followed which produced the collision.
If it was good seamanship on the part of the captain of the
tug to back in such an emergency, he was required, before
undertaking it, at least to know that his bridle-line would
hold. And if the sea was in the condition the captain of
the tug says it was, it was bad management to back at all.
Whether this be so or not, he was bound, in executing a
mancouvre to recover the detached boat, to look to it that
no other boat in the fleet suffered in consequence of it.
But the claimants of the tug deny that their vessel was in
fault, and insist that the disaster occurred by the violence of
the storm and gale of wind which prevailed at the time. If
this be so, how did it happen that two of the canal-boats
that got loose from the fleet survived the perils of that night ?
One of these boats anchored, and was saved without difficulty; the other, loaded with iron, drifted about and was
picked up the next morning without having sustained any
damage. The fact that these boats did not experience any
bad effects from the severity of this storm explodes the theory
advanced by the claimants on the subject.
* The Express, 1 Blatchford, 365; Steamboat New York v. Rea, 18 Howard, 228.

THE SYRACUSE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case in the opinion.

In. our opinion the tug was clearly in fault, and the courts
below, in dividing the damages, doubtless came to the conelusion that the men on board the Citizen were also to blame
for deserting their boat sooner than good seamanship under
the circumstances required. As the libellant did not appeal,
and can, therefore, only be heard in support of the decree,
we are not required to consider whether the evidence convicts the canal-boat of fault.* The appellants have no right
to complain, for in any aspect of the case they cannot escape
without paying at least half the loss.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE SYRACUSE.
A large steamer, without tows or other incumbrance, approaching near to
smaller ones with tows, under circumstances where collision is liable to
occur, is bound to move with caution. She is mistress of her course
and motions, and stands in a position of advantage over the others.
These have not full power over themselves. Seventeen miles an hour,
in such a situation, is too great a rate of speed for the larger and freer
vessel to be moving at among vessels having tows.

THIs was an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, which,
on a libel filed by the owners of the steamer Rip Van Winkle, against the steam tow-boat Syracuse, for a collision, bad
held the complaining boat itself in fault, and the tug-boat not
liable.
Messrs. McMahon and Hoar, for the appellant; Mr. Benedict, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the facts and delivered the
opinion of the court. Both will be better understood by
reference to a diagram by the reporter on the next page.
The steamer Rip Van Winkle, a freight and passenger
The William Bagaley, 5 Wallace, 412.

