Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. KEEHLER.
Syllabus.

fo'rm may be followed; all that is required in such case is
that the contract shall purport on its face to be the contract
of the principal.*
4th. There is no defect of parties plaintiffs. Kendall had
no cause of action against Smith, or against any other party
to the submission. Ie signed that instrument only for the
purpose of settling various causes of action in which he was
personally interested. The agreement of submission was
exclusively between the parties to the present action. The
award followed the submission, and neither adjudged anything to Kendall or against him.
In coming to the conclusion we have upon the objections
of the defendants, we have not regarded the memorandum
between the parties, made on the 13th of De cember, 1859,
or the previous correspondence with Cooper, as affecting in
any respect the terms or character of the submission. Those
documents were admissible to show that no articles of submission were ever executed, as mentioned in the sealed instrument, that the defendant recognized the authority of
Kendall, and that both Smith and Kendall treated the sealed
instrument as containing the whole of the stipulations between the parties, and went to the hearing before the arbitrators and umpire with that understanding.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED

STATES V. KEEHLER.

1. The voluntary payment by an officer of the Federal government, of

money held by him for the government, to a creditor of the United
States, cannot be set up by him or his sureties as a defence in a suit on
his official bond.
2. The whole Confederate power must be regarded by this court as a usurpation of unlawful authority, and its Congress as incapable of passing any
valid laws; whatever weight may be given under some circumstances
to its acts of force, on the ground of irresistible power, or to the legislation of the States in domestic matters; as to which the court decides
nothing now.
1st American Leading Cases, 605; notes to Elwell v Shaw.

84

UNITED STATES V.

KEEHLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. A depositary of the money of the United States or a public debtor, cannot defend against a suit on his official bond by proving that he paid the
money due the United States to one of its creditors, under an order of
the Confederate authorities, where he shows no force or physical coercion
which compelled obedience to such order.
4. In a suit on an official bond the obligation is not that of a mere depositary,
but of a person who has made a contract, which he must at his own peril
perform.
5. The acts of Congress of April 29th, 1864, and March 3d, 1865, furnish
the only exceptions to this rule which this court can act upon.

ON certificate of division of opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court of North Carolina; whence the matter
came in the form of a case agreed on and stated.
The case was this: Keehler, the defendant, had been appointed postmaster at Salem, in the State just named, some
years before the rebellion broke out. His official bond, with
sureties, was in thb ordinary form, and was conditioned well
and truly to execute the office of postmaster, and among
other things, to render accounts once in three months, and
to pay all balances, and to keep safely, without lending,
using, depositing in banks, or exchanging for other funds,
than as allowed by law, all the public money at any time in
his custody, till the same was ordered by the PostmasterGeneral to be transferred or paid out; and that when such
orders for transfer or payment were received, that he should
faithfully and promptly make the transfer or payment as
directed.
Keehler was still postmaster when the rebellion broke out
in the spring of 1861, and had in his bands $330 of post-office
money belonging to the United States. On the other hand,
the United States were indebted to one Clemmens, a mail
contractor in that region, for postal service in a sum exceeding $300; and the sum due to Clemmens by the United
States had never been paid.
In August, 1861, the Congress of the so-called Confederate
States passed an act appropriating the balances which were
at the date of the breaking out of the rebellion in the hands
of the several postmasters of the United States, who resided

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. KEEHLER.
Case submitted.

within the limits of the States then in rebellion, to the pro
rata payment of claims against the United States for postal
service; and in pursuance of the said act, and in obedience to
a regular official order from the Post-Office Department of
the so-called Confederate States, directing him to pay to
Clemmens the whole sum of money in his, the said Keehler's, hands, received for the United States previous to the
1st of June, 1861, the said Keehler, on the 10th of April,
1862, paid to Clemmens the $330, and Clemmens gave him
a receipt for it in form.
It was an admitted part of the case that the post-office at
Salem was, in 1861, a collection office, and that Clemmehs
was the mail contractor, named in his special instructions, to
whom the postmaster at Salem was required to pay over the
net proceeds of his office quarterly, upon the production, by
Clemmens, from time to time, of the proper orders and receipts
from the Post-Office Department of the United States; and an
admitted fact, moreover, that throughout the year 1862, the
so-called Confederate government had force sufficient at its
command to enforce its orders, and did enforce 'the orders
of said government, in that part of North Carolina in which
Salem is situated, and that no protection was aflorded to the
citizens of that part of the State by the government of the
United States during that term.
The rebellion being suppressed the United States brought
suit against Keehler and his sureties, on their official bond,
already mentioned. The pleas were conditions performed,
conditions not broken, and especially that the balance claimed
by the United States, to wit, the $330, had been paid over and
delivered by Keehler to the said Clemmens, on the 10th day
of April, 1862, under the circumstances above stated. Upon
this case, so agreed on, the judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion on the question, whether the law was for
the plaintiff or for the defendant.
Mr. Hoar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Field, Assistant Attorney-General, for the United States, submitted the case. No opposing counsel.

UNITED STATES V. ]KEEHLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defence, which the facts of the statement seek to set
up to this action, will be noticed under three heads.
1. He paid the amount to one Clemmens, who was a mail
carrier on the route which embraced the post-office of Keehler,
and to whom Keehler had been directed to pay the money
he might have as postmaster upon the production by said
Clemmens of proper orders from the Post-Office Department.
It was admitted that the government, at the commencement
of the rebellion, owed Clemmens more than this sum, but it
is not claimed that he had any orders for the money from
the Post-Office Department of the United States.
Can this voluntary payment to a creditor of the United
States be pleaded to a suit on the bond ?
It is hardly necessary to say that such a payment is no
compliance with the condition of the bond. It is, therefore,
not good under a plea of covenants or conditions performed.
Nor can it be used as an equitable set-off, because it would
produce endless confusion in the accounts of the department,
and lead to double payments and serious embarrassments in
its business, if every postmaster who had government money
could select a creditor of the United States and pay what he
might suppose the government owed him.
2. It is stated that the Confederate Congress passed an act
appropriating balances of this kind to the payment of claims
against the United States for postal service, where the parties resided within the limits of the States in rebellion, and
that under this act an order was drawn by the post-office
department of the Confederate States on Keebler, directing
him to pay this money to Clemmens, and that on this order
it was paid.
It certainly cannot be admitted for a moment that a statute
of the Confederate States, or the order of its postmastergeneral, could have any legal effect in making the payment
to Clemmens valid. The whole Confederate power must be
regarded by us as a usurpation of unlawful authority, incapable of passing any valid laws, and certainly incapable of
divesting, by an act of its Congress or an order of one of

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. KEEHLER.

Opinion of the court.

its departments, any right or property of the United States.
Whatever weight may be given under some circumstances
to its acts of force, on the ground of irresistible power, or
whatever effect may be allowed in proper cases to the legislation of the States while in insurrection-questions which
we propose to decide only when they arise-the acts of the
Confederate Congress can have no force, as law, in divesting
or transferring rights, or as authority for any act opposed to
the just authority of the Federal government. This statute
of the Confederate Congress and this draft of its post-office
department are not, therefore, a sufficient authority for the
payment to Clemmens.
3. But it is further stated (this payment being made on
the 10th April, 1862), that throughout the year 1862 the socalled Confederate government had force sufficient to enforce
its orders, and did enforce them in that part of North Carolina where defendant resided, and that no protection was
afforded to the citizens of that part of the State by the United
States government during that period.
It will be observed that this statement falls far short of
showing the application of any physical force to compel the
defendant to pay the money to Clemmens. Nor is it in the
least inconsistent with the fact that he might have been desirous and willing to make the payment. It shows no effort
or endeavor to secure the funds in his hands to the government, to which he owed both the money and his allegiance.
Nor does it prove that he would have suffered any inconvenience, or been punished by the Confederate authorities,
if he had refused to pay the draft of the insurrectionary postoffice department on him. We cannot see that it makes out
any such loss of the money, by inevitable overpowering force,
as could even on the mere principle of bailment discharge a
bailee. We cannot concede that a man, who, as a citizen,
owes allegiance to the United States, and as an officer of the
government holds its money or property, is at liberty to
turn over the latter to an insurrectionary government, which
only demands it by ordinances and drafts drawn on the
bailee, but which exercises no force or threat of personal

UNITED STATES V.

KEEHLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

violence to himself or property in the enforcement of its
illegal orders.
But this court has decided more than once that in an action on the official bonds of such officers the right of the
government does not rest on the implied contract of bailirent, but on the express contract found in the bond, to pay
over the funds. And on this principle it was held, in United
States v. Prescott,* that a plea which averred positively that
the money was stolen from the officer, without any fault or
negligence on his part, was no defence. It would be difficult
to find a stronger case for relief from a contract to keep
safely and pay over the public money than this. But the
court held that the contract was one which the defendant
had voluntarily undertaken, and which he must at his own
peril perform. This ruling was repeated in United States v.
Dashiel,t also in United States v. JMorgan.1 Such was the law
as declared by this court long before the rebellion broke out,
and however hard it may be in some of its aspects, the court
has no option but to act on it.
But Congress seems not to have been inattentive to the
injustice which the rule might work in some cases, and
has, by the act of April 29th, 1864,ยง provided for the relief
of postmasters situated like defendant, who have manfully
done their duty. That act provides that in all cases where
loyal postmasters have been robbed by Confederate forces
or rebel guerillas, without fault or neglect of such postnaster, the Postmaster-General may credit them in settlement with the amount lost by the robbery, and if the officer
had settled and paid the amount before the law was passed,
it should be paid back to him. And by the act of March
3d, 1865, the relief is extended to losses by any armed force
whatever, either by robbery or burning. These statutes
recognize the rule laid down by this court, and provide for
such exceptions as can be brought within their terms. For
other cases, which present peculiar claims for relief, as this
may do if it shall be shown that the claim of Clemmens
8 Howard, 578.
11 Howard, 162.

t 4 Wallace, 185.
13 Stat at Large, 62.

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD CYMPANY v. FREMONT COUNTY.

89

Statement of the case.

would be a just subsisting demand against the government
but for this payment, the parties must resort to Congress.
The court is not authorized to make other exceptions than
those made by the statutes.
Our answer to the question certified to us by the Circuit
Court is, that on the facts stated the
UNITED STATES IS

RAILROAD

ENTITLED TO A JUDGMENT.

COMPANY V. FREMONT

COUNTY.

The proviso in the act of May 15th, 1856, to the State of Iowa, for aid in the
construction of railroads, which excludes from the grant "all lands here-

tofore reserved by any act of Congress, or in any manner by competent
authority, for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement, or for any purpose whatever," excludes the lands granted to that
State, among others, by the act of September 28th, 1850, known as "the
swamp-land grant."

IN error to the Supreme Court of Iowa.
Fremont County, Iowa, filed a bill in one of the State
courts of Iowa against the Burlington and Missouri River
Railroad Company, to quiet the title to twelve thousand
seven hundred and fifty-four acres of land, or thereabouts,
situate in the said county, which the company claimed as
belonging to it. Both parties set up title under grants by
acts of Congress: Fremont County, under what is known as
"the swamp-land grant" to the State of Iowa, September
28th, 1850 ;* the railroad company, under a grant to the State
for aid in the construction of railroads, May 15th, 1856.t
The title of Fremont County, the complainant, was as follows:
By the 1st section of the act of September, 1850, it is provided "that to enable the State of Arkansas to construct the
necessary levees and drains to reclaim the swamp and overflowed lands therein, the whole of those swamp and over* 9 Stat. at Large, 519.

t- 11 lb. 9.

