Dec. 1869.]

THE WASHINGTON

AND

THE GREGORY.

513

Statement of the case.

THE WASHINGTON AND

Tim

GREGORY.

1. Where a collision between two vessels results from the fault of both of
them, a party sustaining injuries from the collision may recover damages against both vessels, and they may be proceeded against in the same
libel.

2. The damages recovered in such case may be apportioned by the decree
equally between the two vessels ; and at the same time the right be
reserved to the libellant to collect the entire amount of either of them
in case of the inability of the other to respond for her portion.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York.
This was a libel in admiralty by Ann Cavan, to recover
damages for injuries sustained by her whilst a passenger on
board the ferryboat D. S. Gregory, crossing the Hudson
River, from a collision, which occurred September 16th,
1866, between that boat and the steamboat George Washington. The ferryboat was at the time making one of her
regular trips from her slip at the foot. of Montgomery Street,
in Jersey City, to her slip at the foot of Desbrosses Street, in
the city of New York. The Washington was an excursion
boat, and was bound from the pier at the foot of Christopher
Street to Barclay Street, in New York, intending to proceed
thence down the bay. The ferryboat was crossing the river
diagonally, and moving at the rate of between nine and ten
miles an hour. The steamboat was going down the iiver at
the rate of twelve miles an hour, distant about two hundred
yards from the piers in New York. The collision took place
in the morning, between the hours of ten and eleven. The
weather was clear at the time, and the river in the vicinity
of the collision quite free of boats of all kinds. In the
courts below, and in this court, each vessel endeavored to
throw the blame of the collision upon the other., The District Court and the Circuit Court held that the collision was
caused by the fault of both vessels; that each. was endeavoring to cross the bows of the other, and to force the other to
pass under her stern. The libellant was at the time on her
way to New York to attend church, the day being Sunday.
VOL. IX.

83

514

THE WASHINGTON AND THE

GREGORY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The injuries she received from the collision were of the most
serious character, resulting in permanent disability. The
District Court awarded her ten thousand dollars damages,
to be recovered against both vessels. The Circuit Court
affirmed the decree, but added to it that the damages should
be equally apportioned between the two vessels; that upon
the payment by the claimants of one vessel of one-half of the
damages and costs, with interest and charges, proceedings
against her' for the collection of the residue should be stayed
until execution for such residue against the claimants of the
other vessel was returned unsatisfied, or until it otherwise
appeared that the libellant was unable to collect the residue
of them by process from the court. The decree also gave
the parties liberty to apply to the court, if occasion should
require, touching the enforcement of the decree.
The claimants of both vessels appealed to this court.
Mr. Sidney Webster, for the claimants of the Gregory. Mr.
Charles _Donohue, for the claimants of the Washington. Messrs.
Adams and Van Sandvoord, for the libellant.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The extent and character of the injuries sustained by the
libellant are not disputed ; and we do not think the amount
at which her damages were assessed by the District Court,
and which was approved by the Circuit Court, at all excessive. At the time the collision occurred the libellant was oi
her way to the city of New York to attend public worship,
and was seated in the ladies' cabin, a few feet from the forward end. The bow of the Washington struck the ferryboat near where she was seated, and passed through the
cabin, tearing up the planks and timbers, and the inner partition separating it from the track of the wagonway, carrying the libellant through on to the track, and hurling upon
her the loosened planks and timbers. Her left leg was
broken, and the ankle sprained. Both bones of the right
leg received three distinct fractures between the ankle and
knee, and the lower part of the leg bone was crushed. Her

Dec. 1869.]

THE WASHINGTON

AND

THE GREGORY.

515

Opinion of the court.

right cheek and ear and the back of her head were cut, and
severe bruises were inflicted upon her body. From the injuries received she was unable for several weeks to assist
herself, and required constant attention, suffering all the
time intense pain. At the trial in the District Court, more
than a year after the accident occurred, she could not move
without pain, and it is the opinion of the surgeon who attended her that she is permanently disabled. We do not
think, therefore, that any just objection can be'made to the
amount found.
The principal question made in the courts below *as,
whether the libellant was entitled to recover against both
of the vessels, or only against one of them; and if only
against one of them, which one; and this question depends
for its solution upon the further question, whether the collision resulted from the fault of only one of the vessels, or
from the fault of both of them.
The libellant alleges that the collision was caused by the
negligence, want of skill, and improper conduct of the persons navigating both of the vessels.
The claimants of the Gregory contend that the collision
was caused by the attempt of the Washington to continue
her course and cross the bow of the Gregory after the latter,
as they allege, had ported her helm so as to head to the New
York shore and pass to the right of the Washington, and
had blown two blasts of her whistle, at short intervals between them, as signals to the Washington of the course she
intended to take.
The claimants of the Washington, on the other hand, impute the collision to the deviation of the Gregory from her
usual course, which they contend would have taken her
uuder the stern of the Washington, and her attempt to cross
the bow of the Washington after the latter had indicated,
as they allege, by two blasts of her whistle, that she was
going ahead of the Gregory.
We have looked into the evidence presented by the parties
with much care. As in nearly all collision cases, it is, in
some respects, conflicting, but, in our judgment, shows that

516

THE, WASHINGTON AND TnE GREGORY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

both vessels were in fault. The collision occurred in open
day, between the hours of ten and eleven in the morning.
The weather at the time was clear, and the vessels were in
full sight of each other from a distance of several hundred
yards until they collided. The Washington was moving at
the rate of twelve miles an hour, going down the river, about
two hundred yards from the piers on the New York side.
The Gregory was moving at the rate of between nine and
ten miles an hour, crossing the river diagonally. Neither of
the vessels paid any attention to the signals given by the
other, but each continued on her course without waiting for
a response, or coming to an understanding with the other
vessel as to her course, and neither attempted to slacken her
speed until too late to prevent the collision. We agree with
the Circuit Court that neither pilot nor master of either
vessel could have been taken by surprise at the meeting of
the vessels, as each must have seen that the courses adopted
and pursued necessarily led to it, and also that those courses
were deliberately pursued by the pilot and master of each
with the purpose of compelling the other vessel to change
her course.
We do not feel called upon to vindicate our conclusions
by citations from the evidence, which fills over one hundred
and thirty printed pages of the record. The citations would
illustrate no principle, and serve no useful purpose.
Both vessels being in fault, both were liable to the libellant, and both could be proceeded against in the same libel.
The damages were properly apportioned equally between
the two vessels, the right being reserved to the libellant to
collect the entire amount of either of them, in case of the
inability of the other to respond for her portion.*
DECREE AFFIRMED.

The Steamer New Philadelphia, 1 Black, 62.

