Dec. 1869.]

Tun

SUFFOLK COUNTY.

Statement of the case.

THE SUFFOLK COUNTY.
1. Where the defence in a libel for collision is that the injured vessel suddenly, and without notice, attempted to sheer across the one libelled, at
a time when the two were so near that no exertion of those in charge of
the latter could prevent the collision, the fact that the pilot of the injured vessel swears that he had not changed his course at all, while the
libel, in giving an account of the matter, has said that the vessel was
pursuing the course of the channel, which gradually rounded, does not
makeout the case of the libelled vessel ; there being no proof of such a
sheer as she set up, and as was necessary to absolve her.
2. It is not fatal to the libellant's case that he has not stated quite correctly
the place of the collision, unless the question of exact place is material
to the question of who was in fault,
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the Southern District
of New York; the case being thus:
The owners of the tugboat Joseph Baker filed a libel in
the District Court at New York against the steam ferryboat
Suffolk County, for a collision which had occurred in the
East River, between New York and Brooklyn, and in which
the tugboat was injured.
The tug was a small boat of about seventy tons burden.
The ferryboat was a large steamboat, capable of carrying a
thousand passengers, and a much faster sailer than the tug.
They were going in the same general direction up the East
River, about two hundred feet from the New York shore,
the tug ahead and the ferryboat astern, as they passed Jackson Street. Somewhat higher up, the ferryboat endeavoring
to pass between the tug and the shore, the collision took
place. There was no signal by whistle or otherwise given
by the ferryboat to warn the tug of the danger, and the pilot
of the tug seemed to have had no apprehension of danger
until the other vessel was within two or three feet of his
boat. There was room enough for the ferryboat to have
passed outside or inside, and as she was behind the other,
and could easily have kept out of the way, the ferryboat,
unless the collision could be clearly traced to some fault on
the part of those in charge of the tug, was obviously to be

THE SUFFOLK COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argtument for the appellant.

held responsible. Such a fault was alleged in the answer
of claimants, in this, to wit, that the tug attempted suddenly
and without notice to sheer across the course of the ferryboat at a time when they were so near each other that no
exertion of those in charge of the ferryboat could prevent
the collision. The pilot of the ferryboat swore positively
that such a sheer had been made. The pilot of the tug
swore as positively that she had not changed her course at all
for some time, and that the courses of the two vessels were the
same. The truth seemed to be about as stated by the pilot
of another ferryboat, who stopped his vessel to look at the
two which came into collision, because they were so near
that ieexpected it. He said that they were going in one
direction, and that both were slightly curving towards the
New York shore, and the tug a little more on the turn than
the other boat.
The allegation of the libel itself was, "that after passing
the foot of Jackson Street, the chamel rounds a little towards
the north, and that the tug, pursuing the regular channel,
qradually rounded with it, so that she was steering,
at the time of
the collision, upon a course not precisely parallel with that of the
ferryboat, but at a slight angle therewith."
The production of a map of the East River, and the testimony as to the wharves which were opposite to the place
of collision seemed to show that the vessels had not fully
arrived at the place where the curve in the channel required
a change of course.
The District Court decreed in favor of the libellant, and
the Circuit Court affirmed the decree. The case was now
here for review.
Mr. Donohue, for the appellants, having endeavored to show
that the pilot of the ferryboat had stated the real facts, and
that the cause of the collision was a rank and unnecessary
sheer by the tug, next argued the matter somewhat independently of that testimony.
Having remarked that the case was to be heard upon the
issue raised by the pleadings; that the parties come into

Dec. 1869.]

THE SUFFOLK COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

court prepared to meet the issues raised, and to make the
proof necessary to meet the case, as made in the pleadings,
and that any other rule would be to simply make pleadings
a snare to the parties, and render them worse than useless,
he argued two propositions:
1st. That the pilot, in swearing that he was pursuing a
direct course, in which he had made no change for some
time previous to the collision, contradicted the libel; that
his testimony could not be received to do this; and that the
libel, which alleged that a change of course had been made, was
to be held to be true; that the testimony of the libellant's
pilot being thus false, and the allegation of the libel stating
a change which would to some extent bring the tug across
the course of the ferryboat, the evidence of the pilot of that
boat, thus far corroborated by the libel, must be taken as
true, when lie swears that the tug made a sudden and unexpected sheer across his course, which rendered the collision
unavoidable.
2d. That the evidence of witnesses compared with authentic maps showing, as it did, that the collision occurred before
the boats had got to the place alleged in the libel, there was
a variance between the proofs and allegation; that the pleadings were for a collision after the Baker had taken a sheer,
while, in fact, the case showed that she had not arrived at
the rounding point. The pleadings admitting such a rounding or sheer, and the evidence showing no necessity for it,
the defence was made out. The evidence failed to show necessity for what the Baker did, and her case failed.
Mr. Carter, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defence is that the tug attempted suddenly, and without notice, to sheer across the course of the ferryboat, when
they were so near that no effort of the persons in charge of
the ferryboat could prevent the collision. But we do not
think that the defence is made out by the evidence. We
cannot go minutely into all the testimony on this point. It

THE SUFFOLK COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

is sufficient to say that we think that the fair result of it does
not relieve the ferryboat from responsibility.
The counsel for appellants has made a very ingenious argument in favor of two propositions growing out of the allegation of the libel in regard to the manner and the place of
the collision.
But as respects the first one, conceding that the pilot of
the tug, in his desire to make clear his freedom from all
blame, did not state the course of the vessel with accuracy,
the statement of the other pilot is liable to the same suspicious influence, and is equally at variance with the allegation of the libel, and with all the other testimony in the
case. The libel does not state a rank or sudden sheer, or
any change of course which would bring the tug across the
bow of the other vessel. It says she was gradually rounding with the channel, which brought her on a course not
precisely parallel with that of the ferryboat, but at a slight
angle therewith. And as we have already stated, the weight
of the testimony supports this allegation, so far as the relative course of the two vessels, and any change in that course
is in question.
The other proposition is, that on the production of a map
of the locality of the accident, including the channel of the
East River, it is shown conclusively that the collision occurred before the vessels reached the point where this curve
in the channel required a change in the course of the boats.
And it is maintained that as the testimony shows that the
collision did not occur at the place alleged, the whole case
of libellants must fail; that it was so material to their case
to show that the reason for the gradual curve of the boat
was the change in the course of the channel, that if there
was no such change in the channel before the collision, the
change in the course of the vessel was without excuse, and
was the cause of the collision.
It surely cannot be necessary to say that the lbellant is
not bound, at the hazard of losing his case, to state with perfect accuracy, within two or three hundred feet, the point
of the collision or curve of the channel, except so far as they

Dec. 1869.]

GREEN V.

UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

oNow
may be material to the question of who was in fault.
the case here requires of the claimants to show that by a
sudden and unexpected change in the course of the tugboat
she was brought so directly across the course of the ferryboat that the latter could not avoid the collision. The relative positions of the boats to each other and their relative
courses were correctly stated in the libel, and such change
in the course of the tugboat as was made, was correctly
stated. We cannot see that it was material whether this
slight and gradual change was made a little before arriving
at the corresponding curve in the channel or not, nor whether the collision occurred at that precise point of the river
or a little before it was reached.
We concur with the decree rendered in favor of libellants,
both by the District Court and the Circuit Court, and it is
accordingly
AFFIRMED.

GREEN V. UNITED STATES.
The act of July 2d, 1864, which enacts that in courts of the United States,
there shall be no exclusion of any witness in civil actions, "because he
is a party to or interested in the issue tried ;" and the amendatory act

of March 8d, 1865, making certain exceptions to the rule, apply to civil
actions in which the United States are a party as well as to those be.
tween private parties.
IN error to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio.
This was an action of debt brought by the United States
against one Green, and the sureties on his official bond, as
agent for paying pensions at Cincinnati. Seven sureties
were named in the bond, all of whom executed it. The defendants charged as sureties, besides filing a joint plea of non
eslfaclun, each filed separate special pleas, first, to the effect
that they signed the writing whilst the same was in blank, as
to the names of the obligors, at the request of the principal,
Green, upon the assurance and agreement that it should also

