Dec. 1869.]

GUT v.

THE STATE.

35

Statement of the case.

the rule is apparent. In this country, a treaty is something
more than a contract, for the Federal Constitution declares
it to be the law of the land. If so, before it can become a
law, the Senate, in whom rests the authority to ratify it, must
agree to it. But the Senate are not required to adopt or reject it as a whole, but may modify or amend it, as was done
with the treaty under consideration. As the individual citizen, on whose rights of property it operates, has no means
of knowing anything of it while before the Senate, it would
be wrong in principle to hold him bound by it, as the law of
the land, until it was ratified and proclaimed. And to construe the law, so as to make the ratification of the treaty
relate back to its signing, thereby divesting a title already
vested, would be manifestly unjust, and cannot be sanctioned.
These views dispose of this case, and we are not required
to determine whether this treaty, if it had become a law at
an earlier date, would have secured the plaintiffs in error the
interest which they claim in the real estate left by Yaker at
his death.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

GUT v. THE STATE.
1. A law of a State changing the place of trial from one county to another
county in the same district, or even to a different district from that in
which the offence was committed, or the indictment found, is not an
ex post facto law, though passed subsequent to the commission of the
offence or the finding of the indictment. An expostfacto law does not
involve, in any of its definitions, a change of the place of trial of an
alleged offence after its commission.

2. The decision of the highest court of a State, that an act of the State is not
in conflict with a provision of its constitution, is conclusive upon this
court.

The case
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Minnesota.
was thus:
A statute of Minnesota, in force in 1866, required that
criminal causes should be tried in the county where the
offences were committed. The offence charged against the
defendant was committed in December of that year, in the

GUT v. THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

county of Brown, in that State. At that time four other
counties, which were unorganized, were attached to Brown
County for judicial purposes. On the 9th of March, 1867,
a statute was passed by the legislature of the State authorizing the judge of the District Court, in cases where one or
more counties were attached to another county for judicial
purposes, to order, whenever he should consider it to be in
furtherance of justice, or for the public convenience, that
the place of holding the court should be changed from the
county then designated by law to one of the other counties
thus attached.
Under this act the judge of the district embracing Brown
County ordered that the place of holding the court should
be changed from that county to the county of Redwood,
within the same district, and the change was accordingly
made. The court subsequently held its sessions in Redwood
County, where the defendant, in September, 1867, was indicted for murder in the first degree. The plea of not guilty
having been interposed the case was transferred, on his motion, to Nicollet County, in an adjoining district, where he
was tried, convicted, and sentenced. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment was affirmed, and
the case was now brought to this court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Mr. .E M. Wilson, for the plaintiff in error, contended in
this court, as it was also contended in the court below, that
the act of Minnesota, under which the court was held in
Redwood County, and the grand jury were summoned, was
unconstitutional so far as it authorized an indictment or trial
there of an offence previously committed in Brown County;
that it was in effect an ex post facto law, and, therefore, within
the inhibition of the Federal Constitution.
Mr. F. 1..B. Cornell, Attorney-General of Minnesota, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The objection to the act of Minnesota, if there be any,

Dec. 1869.]

GUT v. THE STATE.
Opinion of the court.

does not rest on the ground that it is an ex post facto law, and,
therefore, within the inhibition of the Federal Constitution.
It must rest, if it has any force, upon that provision of the
State constitution which declares that, "in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and
public trial by an impartial jury of the county or district
wherein the crime shall have been committed, which county
or district shall have been previously ascertained by law."
But the Supreme Court of the State has held that the act in
question is not in conflict with this provision; that the act
does not change the district, but merely the place of trial in
the district, which is not forbidden. And it appears that
jurors for the tri4l of criminal offences committed in one
of the counties of the several attached together for judicial
purposes, are chosen from all the counties; and that this was
the law before, as it has been since the passage of the act
which is the subject of complaint. Therefore the defendant,
had he not secured, by his own motion, a change of venue,
would have had a jury of the district in which the crime was
committed, and which district was previously ascertained
by law.
The ruling of the State court is conclusive upon this court,
upon the point that the law in question does not violate the
constitutional provision cited.*
Undoubtedly the provision securing to the accused a public
trial within the county or district in which the offence is
committed is of the highest importance. It prevents the
possibility of sending him for trial to a remote district, at a
distance from friends, among strangers, and perhaps parties
animated by prejudices of a personal or partisan character;
but its enforcement in cases arising under State laws is not
a matter within the jurisdiction of the Federal courts.
A law changing the place of trial from one county to another county in the same district, or even to a different district from that in which the offence was committed, or the
* Randall v.Brigham, 7 Wallace, 641; Provident Institution v. Massa-

chusetts, 6 Id. 630.

BASSET V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

indictment found, is not an ex post facto law, though passed
subsequent to the commission of the offence or the finding
of the indictment. An ex post facto law does not involve, in
any of its definitions, a change of the place of trial of an
alleged offence after its commission. It is defined by Chief
Justice Marshall, in Fletcher v. Peck,* to be a law, "which
renders an act punishable in a manner in which it was not
punishable when it was committed;" and in Cummings v.
Missouri,t with somewhat greater fulness, as a law "which
imposes a punishment for an act which was not punishable
at the time it was committed; or imposes additional punishment to that then prescribed; or changes the rules of evidence, by which less or different testimony is sufficient to
convict than was then required."
The act of Minnesota under consideration has no feature
which brings it within either of these definitions.
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

BASSET V. UNITED STATES.

1. Where a pourt sitting in place of a jury finds the facts, this court cannot
review that finding.
2. A plea of nut tiel
record raises a question of law, where the supposed
record is of the court in which the plea is filed.
3. Therefore, where the record relied on is produced in such a case, and

made part of the record by a statement of facts agreed on, it is a question of law whether it supports or fails to support the plea, and can be
reviewed in this court.
4. It is competent for a court, for good cause, to set aside, at the same term
at which it was rendered, a judgment of conviction on confession, though
the defendant had entered upon the imprisonment ordered by the sentence.
5. In such case the original indictment is still pending, and a bail bond
given after this, for the prisoner's appearance from day to day, is valid.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Ohio.
The United States sued Basset and another on a recognizance of bail, to which they pleaded two pleas:
*6 Cranch, 138.

f4 Wallace, 326.

Dec. 1869.]

BASSET V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

1. That there was no record of any such recognizance in

the court.
2. That there was no indictment, as recited in said recognizance, pending against their principal when the recognizance was entered into, because they say that he had pleaded
guilty to the indictment, and judgment had passed against
him, and he had been delivered to the jail of Erie County,
and had entered upon the expiation of his sentence.
The United States took issue on both these pleas, and the
case was submitted to the court without a jury.
1. In respect to the first plea, the production of the record
of the case showed that the recognizance was taken, and remained among the rolls and records of the court; so that
there seemed nothing in the plea.
2. As regarded the second, it appeared by the record that
to the indictment which the prisoner was held to answer by
the recognizance, he had at an earlier period of the same
term pleaded guilty, and had been sentenced to imprisonment in the jail of Erie County for six months, and was sent
to that prison. But a few days after, on motion of the district attorney, he was brought back on a writ of habeas corpus.
When he was thus brought again into court, on motion of
the district attorney, the former judgment was set aside, and
the prisoner had leave to withdraw his plea of guilty formerly
entered. It was after this was done that the recognizance on
which this action was brought was given, conditioned for the
appearance of the prisoner from day to day during the term;
and on his failing to appear the second day his recognizance
was declared to l4e forfeited. All of this took place during the
same term of the court.
The court below decided that there was a record of the
recognizance denied by the first plea, and that there was no
such record of conviction and sentence as that set up in the
second plea. On motion of defendants a new trial was granted,
which was also by the court, and on this trial a statement
of facts, agreed to and signed by counsel for both parties,
was presented to the court, on which it rendered the same
judgment that it had before. This statement of facts con-

BASSET V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sisted of extracts from the records of the court, and it was
upon the inspection of this record that the court decided the
case.
The judgment was now brought here by Basset and the
other obligors in the recognizance, and was submitted by them,
without counsel, upon the record; and contra, upon a brief of Mr.
Hoar, A. G., and Mr. Field, Assistant A. G.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Both the pleas of the defendants were pleas of nul tiel
record, the first denying the existence of the recognizance,
and the second denying the pending of the indictment at the
time the recognizance was taken. A plea of nul tiel record to
a supposed record of the court in which the plea is made is
tried by the court, because it is an issue to be determined by
the inspection of its own records. But where the record of a
foreign court is denied by this plea the issue is to be tried by
a jury, because the existence of the record to be inspected
must first be made by proof, which it may be necessary to
submit to a jury.*
When a court sits in place of a jury and finds the facts
this court cannot review that finding. If there is any error
in such case, shown by the record, in admitting or rejecting
testimony, it can be reviewed here. But when the court,
by permission of the parties, takes the place of the jury, its
finding of facts is conclusive, precisely as if a jury had found
them by verdict.
In the case before us, however, the court did not sit to
supply the place of a jury, because the rec~rd, the existence
of which was denied by both pleas, was the record of the
court in which the pleas were made. When, therefore, such
record as did exist in regard to the matters in issue, was presented to the court, the only question to be determined, on
which the court could exercise any judgment, was a question
of law, namely, whether in legal effect there was found a
* I Institute, 117, 270; Collins v. Matthews, 6 East, 478; Hall v. Williams, 6 Pickering, 117; Pattin v. Miller, 13 Sergeant & Rawle, 254.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. DEWITT.

Statement of the case.

record of the recognizance, and a subsisting legaljudgment
of conviction and punishment prior to the taking of the recognizance.
Both these questions of law are proper for review here,
and are fairly presented by the agreed statement of what the
record is.
1. In regard to the first, there is no doubt that the recognizance was taken, and remains in the records of the court.
2. As regards the second plea, it appears by the record
that all which took place took place during the same term of
the court, and we see no reason to doubt that the court had
power during that term, for proper cause, to set aside the
judgment rendered on confession. This control of the court
over its own judgment during the term is of every-day practice.*
The judgment then being set aside the indictment remained, and the recognizance of the prisoner and his sureties to appear and answer to it was valid.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. DEWITT.
1. The 29th section of the Internal Revenue Act of March 2d, 1867 (14 Stat.
at Large, 484), which makes it a misdemeanor, punishable by fine and
imprisonment, to mix for sale naphtha and illuminating oils, or to sell
or offer such mixture for sale, or to sell or offer for sale oil made of
petroleum for illuminating purposes, inflammable at less temperature or
fire-test than 110 degrees Fahrenheit, is in fact a police regulation,
relating exclusively to the internal trade of the States.
2. Accordingly, it can only have effect where the legislative authority of
Congress excludes, territorially, all State legislation, as for example, in
the District of Columbia. Within State limits, it can have no constitutional operation.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Michigan;
the case being this:
King v. Price, 6 East, 328; Cheang-kee v. United States, 3 Wallace, 820.

