Dec. 1869.]

THE PROTECTOR.
Syllabus.

the second engineer was in immediate charge of the engine
until within three minutes of th e time when the signal was
given to stop, and even during those three minutes the
chief engineer was outside of the engine-room. The second
engineer must, therefore, have best known at what rate of
speed the propeller was moving. In view of all this, we
have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion, that the
loss sustained by the libellants is to be attributed to the
fault of the carrier, and not to the excepted dangers of lake
navigation.
Were it necessary, it would be easy to show that the conduct of the master after the vessel was stranded was entirely
unjustifiable. It was his duty even then to take all possible
care of the cargo. le was bound to the utmost exertion to
save it. Losses arising from dangers of navigation, within
the meaning of the exception in the bill of lading, are such
only as happen in spite of the best human exertions, which
cannot be prevented by human skill and prudence.* But
in this case no effort was made to save the cargo. The salt
was not thrown overboard until after the arrival of the tug.
The fog had then lifted. The wind and the sea had subsided. It is evident the salt might then have been saved,
if it could not have been removed before.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

THE PROTECTOR,
1

The doctrine declared in Hanger v. Abbott (6 Wallace, 532), that statutes
of limitations do not run during the rebellion against a party residing
out of the rebellious States, so as to preclude his remedy for a debt
against a person residing in one of them, held applicable to the Judiciary Acts of 1789 and 1803, limiting the right of appeal from the inferior Federal courts to this court, to five years from the time when the
decree complained of was rendered.
* Propeller Niagara v. Cordes et al., cited suapra, 685.

688

THE PROTECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

2. The act of March, 1867, allowing appeals from Federal courts, in districts
where the regular sessions of such courts subsequently to the rendering
of the judgment had been suspended by rebellion, to be brought within
one year from the date of the passage of the act, is an enabling act, not
a restraining one.

THIS was a motion by Mr. P. Phillipsto dismiss an appeal,
on the ground that it was not brought within the time allowed by law. The case was this:
Freeborn, a resident of New York, had filed a libel against
the ship Protector, in the District Court for the Southern
District of Alabama, January 25th, 1859, for the price of certain necessary supplies and materials previously furnished
to the ship in the port of New York. A decree dismissing
the libel was pronounced in December, 1859. This decree
was affirmed by Mr. Justice Campbell, in the Circuit Court,
on the 51h of April, 1861. The rebellion broke out soon
after, lasting about four years. The appeal from the Circuit
Court to this court was taken on the 28th day of July, 1869,
more than eight years after the date of the decree appealed
from.
By the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
it was enacted that writs of error should not be brought but
within five years after rendering, or passing, the judgment
or decree complained of, or, in case the person entitled to
such writ be an infant, feme covert, non compos mentis, or imprisoned, then within five years, as aforesaid, exclusive of
the time of such disability. By an act of March 3d, 1803,
appeals were given, instead of writs of error, in cases of
equity and admiralty jurisdiction, and it was provided that
they should be subject to the same rules, regulations, and
restrictions as were prescribed in law in cases of writs of
error, and the same limitation applied, of course, to appeals
as to writs of error.
The case, it was admitted, by Mr. Phillips, might, under
certain views of what was decided in Hanger v. Abbott,* be
supposed to be taken out of the operation of these acts;
* 6 Wallace, 532.

Dec. 1869.]

THE PROTECTOR.

Opinion of the court.

the rebellion having broken out so soon after the decree
was affirmed in the Circuit Court. But he argued that the
doctrine of Hlanger v. Abbott was not rightly applicable to
this special matter of practice, fixed, as it was, by positive
statutes. Whichever way, however, that might be, the provisions made by an act of March 2d, 1867,* on the very subject of appeals during the rebellion, concluded, as he argued,
the matter. That statute ran thus:
"Where any appeal or writ of error has been brought to the
Supreme Court from any final judgment or decree of an inferior
court of the United States for any judicial district in which,
subsequently to the rendition of such judgment or decree, the
regular sessions of such court have been suspended or interrupted by insurrection or rebellion, such appeal or writ of error
shall be valid and effectual, notwithstanding the time limited by
law for bringing the same may have previously expired; and in
cases where no appeal or writ of error has been brought from
any such judgment or decree, such appeal or writ of error may
be brought within ONE YEAR from the passage of this act."
Mr. Phillips contended that this statute had prescribed in
a positive way, a limitation of one year from its enactment
within which to bring up appeals situated as this one bad
been. The time given by the act was abundant, and there
was no reason, since its passage, for resorting to the privileges-doubtful as applied to cases like this-of Hanger v.
Abbott.
Mr. F. S. Blount, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It is plain that by the literal terms of the act of 1789 the
period of limitation had expired more than three years prior
to the taking of this appeal. But this court has decided,
in the case of Hanger v. Abbott, that a statute of limitations
did not run, during the rebellion, against a party residing in
14 Stat. at Large, 545.
VOL. IX.

44

TimE

PROTECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

New Hampshire, so as to preclude his remedy for a debt
against a person residing in Arkansas, one of the insurrectionary States. It is unnecessary to go over again the ground
which was examined in that case. We are of opinion that
the same law applies to this. And by throwing out of the
eight years which elapsed between the decree and the appeal
the four years and more during which the war continued, the
time is reduced to a period of less than five years.
But it is urged that the act of March 2d, 1867, has regulated this subject, and has prescribed a limitation of one year
from the passage of that act within which to bring all appeals
and writs of error which were suspended or interrupted by
the rebellion. We are of opinion that this statute is an enabling and not a restraining one ; that it was not intended
to take away any right of appeal, but to continue the right
in cases where it had been lost. " Where the common law
and a statute differ," says Blaekstone, " the common law
gives place to the statute; and an old statute gives place to
a new one. . . But this is to be understood only when the
latter statute is couched in negative terms, or where its matter
is so clearly repugnant that it necessarily implies a negaSuch repugnancy does not exist here. Many cases
tive."
may be supposed, in which the right of appeal would be
saved by the statute of 1867, which would not be saved by
the act of 1789 and tie operation of the common law rule
followed in Hlanger v. Abbott. If four years of the five
elapsed before the war, the right of appeal would be saved
by the act of 1867, but would be gone under the operation
of the act of 1789, unless the appeal were brought before
the passage of the former act. If Congress had intended to
limit all appeals from courts in the insurrectionary States to
one year from the passage of the law, it should have been
so expressed in the act.
MOTION DENIED.
* 1 Commentaries, 89.

