Dec. 1869.]

REESE V. UNITED STATES.

13

Syllabus.

REESE V. UNITED STATES.
1. Where the condition of a recognizance of bail in a criminal action pending in a circuit court of the United States, provided that the party held
to bail should appear for trial at the next regular term of the court, and
at any subsequent term thereafter, the latter clause is construed to mean
that the party shall appear at any subsequent term which may follow in
regular succession in the course of business of the court, and not at any
distant future term to which either party might be disposed to postpone
the trial, without reference to any intervening term.
2. Where a stipulation was made between the parties to a criminal action
(the government and the prisoner), and entered in the minutes of the
court, to postpone the trial of the action until the determination of cases
pending in another court; held, that the stipulation was inconsistent
with the condition of a recognizance of bail, that the principal should
appear for trial at any subsequent term following the then next term in
regular succession; and that it released the principal from the obligation to appear at any such subsequent term.
3. Although the rights and liabilities of sureties on a recognizance are in
many respects different from those of sureties on ordinary bonds or coinmercial contracts, yet their positions are similar in respect to the limitations of their liability to the precise terms of their contract, and the
effect upon such liability of any change in those terms without their
consent.
4. By a recognizance of bail in a criminal action the principal is, in the
theory of the law, committed to the custody of the sureties as to jailers
of his own choosing, not that he is subjected or can be subjected by them
to constant imprisonment, but that he is so far placed in their power that
they may at any time arrest him upon the recognizance and surrender
him to the court, and, to the extent necessary to accomplish this, may
restrain him of his liberty.
5. This power of arrest can only be exercised within the territory of the
United States ; and there is an implied covenant on the part of the principal with his sureties, when he is admitted to bail, that he will not depart out of this territory without their assent. There is also an implied
covenant on the part of the government, when the recognizance of bail
is accepted, that it will not in any way interfere with this covenant between them, or impair its obligation, or take any proceedings with the
principal which will increase the risks of the sureties or affect their
remedy against him.
6. Accordingly when in a criminal action a stipulation was made and entered in the minutes of the court, between the government and the defendant, who had given bail for his appearance for trial, that he might
depart without the territory of the United States to a foreign country,
and remain there until certain civil cases pending in another court were

REESE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
finally disposed of, and such stipulation was made without the knowledge or assent of the sureties on the recognizance of bail, held that the
sureties were released.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California;
the case being thus:
In December, 1856, one Limantour was indicted at San
Francisco by the grand jury of the Circuit Court of the
United States for uttering and publishing as true, to the
board of land commissioners created under the act of March
3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims in the
State of California, a false writing, purporting to be a grant
of certain described lands in California from the Mexican
government, with intent to defraud the United States, knowing the same to be false. To this indictment Limantour
appeared and pleaded not guilty. ie was then admitted to
bail, on motion of his counsel, the amount being fixed, by
order of the court, at $30,000.
Soon after the issue was thus joined, a motion was made
on the part of the United States to set the case for trial early
in January, 1857. This motion was resisted, and at the same
time application was made on the part of Limantour for a
continuance of the cause, and in support of the application
his affidavit was read, in which he asserted the genuineness
of the grant alleged by the United States to have been forged,
and that it was made at the time and by the officers as averred
by him. For alleged perjury in making this affidavit the
grand jury soon afterwards found a second indictment against
him. To this indictment he also appeared and pleaded not
guilty, and, upon the motion of his counsel, was admitted to
bail, its amount being fixed at $5000.
By order of the court the recognizance of, bail was taken
in one instrument, the obligation of the sureties being the
amount required in both cases. The defendant, Reese, and
one Castro, became the sureties of Limantour, binding themselves jointly and severally in the sum designated. Upon
this recognizance the-United States brought suit; the present
action. The recognizance recited the finding and presentment of the two indictments, the commitment of Limantour

Dec. 1869.]

REESE V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

thereon, and the order of the court for his discharge on furnishing the required bail, and was conditioned that Limantour should personally appear at the next regular term of the
Circuit Court to be held in the city of San Francisco, and at
any subsequent term to be thereafter held in that city, to answer all
such matters and things as should be objected against him,
and to abide the order of the court and not depart therefrom
without leave first obtained. This recognizance was dated
the 5th of February, 1857.
At the subsequent term of the Circuit Court, in August
of that year, Limantour appeared and was ready and pressing
for trial in both cases, with witnesses in attendance from the
city of Mexico. The district attorney thereupon moved for
a postponement of the trials. At this time two cases of
Limantour for land claimed under alleged Mexican grants
were pending in the District Court of the United States on
appeal from decrees of the land commissioners, by whom the
claims had been confirmed. One of the cases was for a claim
under the alleged forged grant. The witnesses in attendance
were persons who had been brought from Mexico to testify
in the land cases, and they were obliged to return without
delay. It was therefore stipulated between the district attorney and the counsel of Limantour, on the one side that
the postponement desired by the government should be assented to, and on the other side that neither of the criminal
actions should be brought to trial until after final decrees had
been rendered in the two land cases by the District Court;
and if both or either of the decrees were in favor of the
claimant that the criminal actions should be dismissed by the
United States; but if the decrees were adverse to the claimant
that reasonable time should be given him to prepare for the
trial of the criminal actions, and to procure the attendance
of such of his witnesses as resided without the State of California. The stipulation was entered upon the minutes of
the court, and the postponement desired was granted, by
order of the court, in accordance with its terms.
With this stipulation, the sureties on the recognizance had nothing to do in any way, and had, in fact, no knowledge of it.

REESE v.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

It was proved at the trial, without objection, that it was
fully understood by all parties at the time that if the stipulation should be made, Limantour and his witnesses would
return to Mexico and remain there until the civil cases in
the United States District Court were finally disposed of;
and that Limantour should afterwards have time enough
allowed him to give notice to his witnesses and get them
andreturn with them to San Francisco.
The result was that the witnesses of Limantour returned
at once to Mexico, and after two or three months' delay Limantour followed them, and never returned to California.
In iNovember, 1858, the District Court by its decrees rejected the claims of Limantour in both of the land cases,
and soon afterwards the district attorney moved that the
criminal actions be set for trial. After repeated adjournments the motion was finally argued and decided in March,
1859, and on the 26th of that month were set for trial for
the 25th of April following. On this latter day the two actions were called, and Limantour was called in both, but he
did not appear in either of them, and thereupon an order
was entered forfeiting the recognizance of bail.
By stipulation of the parties the case was tried in the Circuit
Court without the intervention of a jury, and that court
gave judgment for the United States. The surety, Reese,
accordingly brought the case here by writ of error.
Mr. E. Casserly, in his behalf, citing, and relying particularly upon Rees v. Berringlon,* and the English and American notes to it, as given in the Leading Cases in EquityJ
in which case Lord Loughborough states that it was "the
clearest and most evident equity not to carry on any transaction without the privity of him who must necessarily
have a concern with the principal debtor," argued that
though the recognizance here was, when taken, a valid obligation, yet that the sureties had been discharged by matter
subsequently arising out of the written stipulation for a post* 2 Vesey, 540.

t Vol. 3, pp. 819, 822, 827, 559, 560.

Dec. 1869.]

REESE V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

ponement of the criminal actions against their principal,
Limantour, for a long and uncertain period, made, without
their knowledge or privity in any way, between him and
the United States, in August, 1857, and then entered as an
order of court; and by the circumstances connected with
the same.
The Attorney- General, Mr. Hoar, submitted the case on the
record, which contained the opinion of the court below, in
which the court observed on this particular point that the
stipulation of August, 1857, though most unusual in all its
features, might be justified. The court said:
"The grant alleged to be forged, and in swearing to the genuineness of which the forgery was charged, had been adjudged
valid by the board of land commissioners, and the appeal from
its decree was at the time pending undetermined. The postponement of the trial until this appeal was disposed of was a
very proper exercise of the power of the court, provided the
accused waived his right to a speedy trial and assented to the
postponement. In this act we do not perceive any ground upon
which the bail can claim exemption from liability on their recognizance. They were not bound to continue as sureties any
longer from this circumstance than without it. They could at
any time afterwards have surrendered the defendant and been
exonerated. In the theory of the law he was in their custody,
as jailers of his own choosing, subject to be surrendered at any
moment. If they failed to exercise their power over him they
must bear the responsibility attached to the position they voluntarily assumed."
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
As a defence to this action the defendant relied in the
Circuit Court upon several grounds, the principal of which
were these:
First. That the acts charged in the two indictments did
not, at the time of their alleged commission, constitute any
offence under the laws of the United States; and, as a consequence, that the indictments and all proceedings thereVOL. IX.

2

REESE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

under, including the requiring of bail for the appearance of
the party indicted, were void.
Second. That if the indictments and proceedings thereunder were not void, the stipulation of August, 1857, for a
postponement of the trials, released the sureties from liability on their recognizance; and
Third. That the recognizance was void in embracing the
amount required as bail upon both indictments.
The third ground here stated is not pressed in this court.
The other two grounds are substantially the same which are
urged here, differing only in their form of statement. Upon
the first of these we express no opinion. Upon the second
we are of opinion that the Circuit Court erred, and for reasons
which may be briefly stated.
The condition of the recognizance provided for the personal appearance of Limantour at the then next regular term
of the Circuit Court in San Francisco, and also at any subsequent term to be thereafter held in that city. It has been
suggested that the provision for the appearance of the party
at any term subsequent to that succeeding his arrest is unusual and invalid, but we do not pass upon the suggestion,
and for the purposes of this case we shall treat the recognizance as unobjectionable in form. At the next regular term
after its execution the party personally appeared with his
witnesses and pressed the trial of the indictments. The first
portion of the condition of the recognizance was thus complied with. The provision for his appearance at any subsequent term had reference to such subsequent term as might
follow in regular succession in the course of business of the
court. It was inserted to obviate the necessity of renewing
the bail every time the cases were, from any cause, continued
from one term to another. It was not intended to apply to
any distant future term to which either party might be disposed to postpone the trials without reference to any intervening term. The principal and sureties by their recognizance covenanted with the United States that the principal
should appear before the court and answer all such matters
as might be objected against him at the next term, and froru

Dec. 1869.]

REESE V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

term to term until the cases were disposed- of; not that he
should appear at the next term, and then at a tern years
later, depending for its designation upon the happening of a
contingent event,
The stipulation in this case was for a postponement of the
trial of the criminal actions for a period of uncertain duration; until final decrees should be rendered by the District
Court of the United States in certain cases pending on appeal from the board of commissioners-created under the act
of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle private land claims
in the State of California. Cases on appeal from that board
were not heard upon the record transmitted to the court, and
therefore were not subject to be disposed of whenever they
could be argued. They were tried anew upon the testimony
and proceedings had before the board and such further testimony as might be produced by the parties in the District
Court.* The proceedings in the court advanced slowly when
new testimony was produced, as it was required to be taken
in writing and by question and answer. Independent of
this circumstance it was difficult to anticipate the period
which ahy case, meeting with opposition and seriously contested, would occupy. The difficulty of determining in advance the duration of litigated proceedings, which exists in
all cases, was increased with respect to Mexican land cases,
appealed from the board to the District Court of the United
States, by a variety of causes; among others, from the manner
in which the testimony was taken, as already stated; the necessity of looking into the archives of the former department
of California, and sometimes of the supreme government-at
the city of Mexico; of examining Mexican witnesses, ignorant
of our language, and of interpreting Mexican and Spanish
usages, ordinances, and laws. In the cases of the city of San
Francisco and of the city of Sonoma,t the appeals were pending in the District Court for over eight years. These cases
of Limantour involved lands in the city of San Francisco
United States v. Ritchie, 17 Howard, 533; Grisar v. McDowell, 6 Wallace, 375.
1 3 Wallace, 684.

REESE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and adjoining it, .covered with buildings and expensive and
permanent improvements, which were of the value of many
millions. His claims were, for this reason, as well as their
supposed fraudulent character, vigorously contested, not
only by the United States, but by citizens of San Francisco,
acting in concert with the district attorney. A final disposition of them until after the lapse of many months, and perhaps of several years, could not, therefore, have been reasonably anticipated.
The stipulation to postpone the trials until after such final
disposition was inconsistent with the condition of the recognizance. It released Limantour from the obligation of appearing at any subsequent term following the then next term
in regular succession. It substituted for it an agreement
that he need not appear at any such subsequent tern, but
only at such term as might be held after the happening of
an uncertain and contingent event. The stipulation, in other
words, superseded the condition of the recognizance.
This will readily appear if we consider the condition,
which, subsequent to that stipulation, must have been exacted in a new recognizance, if the sureties on the present
recognizance had surrendered their principal. It could not
have been for the appearance of the defendant at the next
regular term thereafter, or any succeeding term, for such a
condition would have been inconsistent with the stipulation.
It could only have been for his appearance at such term as
might be designated by the district attorney or the Circuit
Court, after the final decrees were rendered by the District
Court in certain land cases pending therein on appeal from
the board of land commissioners; provided always, that such
decrees were against the claimant; and provided further,
that the term designated allowed reasonable time to the
defendant to prepare for trial, and to procure the attendance
of witnesses residing out of the State. It requires no argument to show that a condition like this would be a very
different one from that embodied in the existing recogniz ance.

If, now, we apply the ordinary and settled doctrine, which

Dec. 1869.]

D REESE V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

controls the liabilities of sureties, it must follow that the
sureties on the recognizance in suit are discharged. The
stipulation, made without their consent or knowledge, between the principal and the government, has changed the
character of his obligation; it has released him from the
obligation with which they covenanted he should comply,
and substituted another in its place.
It is true, the rights and liabilities of sureties on a recognizance are in many respects different from those of sureties
on ordinary bonds or commercial contracts. The former can
at any time discharge themselves from liability by surrendering their principal, and they are discharged by his death.
The latter can only be released by payment of the debt or
performance of the act stipulated. But in respect to the
limitations of their liability to the precise terms of their
contract, and the effect upon such liability of any change in
those terms without their consent, their positions are similar.
And the law upon these matters is perfectly well settled.
Any change in the contract, on which they are sureties,
made by the principal parties to it without their assent, discharges them, and for obvious reasons. When the change
is made they are not bound by the contract in its original
form, for that has ceased to exist. They are not bound by
the contract in its altered form, for to that they have never
assented. Nor does it matter how trivial the change, or even
that it may be of advantage to the sureties. They have a
right to stand upon the very terms of their undertaking.
There is also another view of the stipulation which leads
to the same result. By the recognizance the principal is, in
the theory of the law, committed to the custody of the
sureties as to jailers of his own choosing, not that he is, in
point of fact, in this country at least, subjected or can be
subjected by them to constant imprisonment; but he is so
far placed in their power that they may at any time arrest
him upon the recognizance and surrender him to the court,
and, to the extent necessary to accomplish this, may restrain
him of his liberty. This power of arrest can only be exercised within the territory of the United States; and there is

REESE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

an implied covenant on the part of the principal with his
sureties, when he is admitted to bail, that he will not depart
out of this territory without their assent. There is also an
implied covenant on the part of the government, when the
recognizance of bail is accepted, that it will not in any way
interfere with this covenant between them, or impair its
obligation, or take any proceedings with the principal which
will increase the risks of the sureties or affect their remedy
against him.
The stipulation in this case was made with the distinct
understanding of the parties, that upon its execution Limantour and his witnesses would return to Mexico, and would
remain there until the civil cases in the District Court were
finally disposed of, and that he should afterwards have time
allowed him to obtain his witnesses and return to this country with them. The government thus consented that Limantour might depart out of the territory of the United States
to a foreign country, where it would be impossible for the
bail to exercise their right to arrest and surrender him; and
further, it consented that he might remain abroad for a
period of indefinite duration. This was all done without
.the concurrence or even knowledge of the sureties, whose
risks were thus greatly increased.
It would be against all principle and all justice to allow
the government to recover against the sureties for not producing their principal, when it had itself consented to his
placing himself beyond their reach and control.*
Judgment
trial.

REVERSED,

and the cause remanded for a new

* Rathbone v. Warren, 10 Johnson, 587, 589; Niblo v. Clark, 3 Wendell,
24, 27 ; S. C. on error, 6 Wendell, 236, 245; Bowmaker v. Moore, 7 Price,,
223, 231, 234; S. C., 3 Price, 214.

