HIAVER V. YAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

As we have examined all that can be said to affect the
jurisdiction of the court and the authority of the officer to
make the sale, we need inquire no further.
JUDGMENT AFrIRMED.

HAVER V. YAKER.
Although it is true, as a principle of international law, that, as respects the
rights of either government under it, a treaty is considered as concluded
and binding from the date of its signature, and that in this regard the
exchange of ratifications has a retroactive effect, confirming the treaty
from its date; a different rule prevails where the treaty operates on individual rights. There the principle of relation does not apply to rights
of this character which were vested before the treaty was ratified, and
in so far as it affects them it is not considered as concluded until there is
an exchange of ratifications.

ERRoR to the Court of Appeals' of Kentucky; the case
being thus:
One Yaker, a Swiss by birth, who had come many years
ago to the United States and become a naturalized citizen
thereof, died in Kentucky in 1853, intestate, seized of real
estate there. He left a widow, who was a resident and citizen of Kentucky, and certain heirs and next of kin, aliens
and residents in Switzerland.
By the laws of Kentucky in force in 1853, the date of his
death, aliens were not allowed to inherit real estate except
under certain conditions, within which Yaker's heirs did not
come, and if the matter was to depend on those laws, the
widow was, by the laws then in force in Kentucky, plainly
entitled to the estate.
However, in 1850, a treaty was "concluded and signed"
by the respective plenipotentiaries of the two countries, between the Swiss Confederation and the United States,* upon
the proper construction of which, as Yaker's heirs assertedalthough the widow denied that the construction put upon
* 11 Stat. at Large, 587.

Dec. 1869.]

H AVER V. YAKER.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the treaty by the heirs was a right one-these heirs were entitled to take and hold the estate. The treaty provided by
its terms that it should be submitted on both sides to the
approval and ratification of the respective competent authorities of each contracting party, and that the ratifications
should be exchanged at Washington as soon as circumstances
should admit. It was so submitted, but was not duly ratified,
nor were the respective ratifications exchanged in Washington till November 8th,, 1855, at which time the ratification
and exchange was made. And on the next day the President, by proclamation-the treaty having been altered in
the Senate-made the treaty public.
In 1859 the Swiss heirs, who had apparently not heard before of their kinsman's death, instituted proceedings to have
the real estate of their kinsman, now in possession of the
widow, assigned to them, and arguing that on a right construction of the treaty it was theirs.
But a preliminary question, and in case of one resolution
of it, a conclusive objection to their claim was here raised;
the question, namely, at what time the treaty of 1850-55,
as it regarded private rights, became a law. Was it when
it bore date, or was it only when the ratifications were exchanged between the parties to it? If not until it was ratified, then there was no necessity of deciding whether by its
terms the heirs of Yaker had any just claim to this real
estate, because in no aspect of the case could the treaty have
a retroactive effect so as to defeat the title of the widow,
which vested in her, by the law of Kentucky of 1853, on the
death of her husband.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky, where the heirs set
up the treaty as a basis of their title, decided that it took
effect only when ratified, and so deciding against their claim,
the case was now here for review under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson,for the heirs, citing- Kent's
Commentaries,* and United States v. Reynes,t in this court,
* Vol. i, 170.
VOL. IX.

t 9 Howard, 148, 289.
8

HAVER V. YAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

contended that a treaty binds the contracting parties from its
conclusion; and that this is understood to be from the day
it is signed. If that view was right, the treaty was operative at the date of Yaker's death, and as they argued carried
the estate to the heirs.
Mr. Montgomery Blair, contra; a brief of Messrs. Porterand
Beck being filed on the same side, argued that while the position
of the other side might be admitted so far as respected the
contracting governments, the position was not true as respected private rights. And this for a good reason. For
that with us a treaty must be agreed to by the Senate, and
this in secret session, before it becomes a law. While before
the Senate it may be amended and largely altered. This
particular treaty, the President's proclamation shows, was
amended, and for aught that appears to the contrary, the
very article upon which the heirs of Yaker now found their
claim, may have been the only amendment made, and it may
have been inserted long after Yaker's death and the accrual
of the widow's rights.
If this view is right we need not inquire into the meaning
of the treaty.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is undoubtedly true, as a principle of international law,
that, as respects the rights of either government under it, a
treaty is considered as concluded and binding from the date of
its signature. In this regard the exchange of ratifications
has a retroactive effect, confirming the treaty from its date.*
But a different rule prevails where the treaty operates on individual rights. The principle of relation does not apply to
rights of this character, which were vested before the treaty
was ratified. In so far as it affects them, it is not considered
as concluded until there is an exchange of ratifications, and
this we understand to have been decided by this court, in
Arredondo's case, reported in 6th Peters.t The reason of
*

Wheaton's International Law, by Dana, 336, bottom paging.

t Vol. vi, p. 749.

Dec. 1869.]

GUT v.

THE STATE.

35

Statement of the case.

the rule is apparent. In this country, a treaty is something
more than a contract, for the Federal Constitution declares
it to be the law of the land. If so, before it can become a
law, the Senate, in whom rests the authority to ratify it, must
agree to it. But the Senate are not required to adopt or reject it as a whole, but may modify or amend it, as was done
with the treaty under consideration. As the individual citizen, on whose rights of property it operates, has no means
of knowing anything of it while before the Senate, it would
be wrong in principle to hold him bound by it, as the law of
the land, until it was ratified and proclaimed. And to construe the law, so as to make the ratification of the treaty
relate back to its signing, thereby divesting a title already
vested, would be manifestly unjust, and cannot be sanctioned.
These views dispose of this case, and we are not required
to determine whether this treaty, if it had become a law at
an earlier date, would have secured the plaintiffs in error the
interest which they claim in the real estate left by Yaker at
his death.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

GUT v. THE STATE.
1. A law of a State changing the place of trial from one county to another
county in the same district, or even to a different district from that in
which the offence was committed, or the indictment found, is not an
ex post facto law, though passed subsequent to the commission of the
offence or the finding of the indictment. An expostfacto law does not
involve, in any of its definitions, a change of the place of trial of an
alleged offence after its commission.

2. The decision of the highest court of a State, that an act of the State is not
in conflict with a provision of its constitution, is conclusive upon this
court.

The case
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Minnesota.
was thus:
A statute of Minnesota, in force in 1866, required that
criminal causes should be tried in the county where the
offences were committed. The offence charged against the
defendant was committed in December of that year, in the

