298

THE SECRETARY V. MCGARRAIIAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of action the estate of the minor, but, should such be the
case, the corrective cannot be applied by this court.
By the statute in question, which was intended to benefit
the minor children of Robb, and was an indirect mode of
investing their means, under legislative direction, a change
of security has been effected, and nothing more, and we
cannot see how these minors, in the proper sense of the
term, have been divested of any right in consequence of this
change. Be this as it may, the legislature never contracted
with them, or with any one in their behalf, not to use its
power in this regard, and there being no contract to violate,
there is no question in this case which this court can review.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE SECRETARY V. MOGARRAHAN.
1. The Commissioner of the Land Office cannot properly grant a patent
under the 7th section of the act of July, 1866, " to quiet land titles in

California," unless the purchaser bring himself by affirmative proofs
within the terms of the section.
2. The granting of a patent for lands in cases where proofs, hearing, and decision are required, and where the exercise of judgment and discretion
is thus necessary, is not a matter wherein the action of the Department

of the Interior is subject to re-examination by the Supreme Court of the
District.
3. A judgment in mandamus ordering the performance of an official duty
against an officer, as if yet in office, when in fact he had gone out after

service of the writ, and before the judgment is void.

Such a judgment

cannot be executed against his successor.

4. Mandamus to compel either the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
or the Secretary of the Interior, to issue a patent, cannot be sustained
under statutes as now existing.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the 3d of December, 1868, one McGarrahan, the alleged purchaser of the claim of a certain Gomez, to a tract
of land in California, known as the Panoche Grande, filed a
petition in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
ERROR

Dec. 1869.]

THE SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.
Statement of the case

praying that a writ of mandamus might be issued, commanding the HIon. 0. I. Browning, Secretary of the Interior, to
issue, or cause to be issued, to him, McGarrahan, a patent
for the land alleged to be embraced by that claim.
The claim of Gomez to this land had been decided in
this court to be signally fraudulent and void.* The right of
McGarrahan to demand and receive such a patent as he
asked the Supreme Court of the District to order, was placed
in his petition upon the provisions of the act of July 23d,
1866, entitled "An act to quiet land titles in California."T
"Section 7. That where persons, in good faith and for a valuable
consideration, have purchased lands of Mexican grantees or assigns, which grants have subsequently been rejected, or where
the lands so purchased have been excluded from the final survey
of any Mexican grant, and have used, improved, and continued in
the actual possession of the same, according to the lines of their
original purchase, and where no adverse right or title (except of
the United States) exists, such purchaser may purchase the
same, after having such land surveyed under existing laws, at
the minimum price established by law, upon first making proof'
of the facts required in this section, under regulations to be provided by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, &c. : Provided,
that the right to purchase herein given shall not extend to lands containing mines of gold, silver, copper, or cinnabar."
A subsequent act disposes, in a different way, of lands containing mines of gold, silver, copper, or cinnabar.
The petition of MeGarrahan, not averring that proof of
the facts had been made under the regulations of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and without averring
that the lands in question were not mineral lands, containing
mines, &c., alleged simply that the facts stated in his application were proved, by the relator, to Mr. Browning, the
Secretary of the Interior, and that he had found, from the
proofs, that the relator, in good faith and for a valuable consideration, purchased the lands from Gomez. Upon the
23 Howard, 326; 1 Wallace, 698; 3 Id. 752. t 14 Stat. at Large, 220.

300

THE SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the mandamus.

showing made in this petition, the Supreme Court of this
District, without notice to Mr. Browning, the Secretary of the
Interior, ordered, on the 7th of' December, a rule to issue,
commanding him to show cause, on the 3d Monday of January, 1869, before the court sitting in general term, why the
writ of mandamus prayed for should not issue. On the 26th
of January, Mr. Browning filed a return, in the nature of a
plea to the jurisdiction of the court, submitting that the
court had not jurisdiction of the subject-matter of the case,
and could not grant the writ prayed for:
1st. Because the subject-matter was of purely executive
cognizance, resting in the judgment and discretion of executive officers, in the ordinary discharge of their official duties.
2d. Because the subject-matter was one in which judgment and discretion were to be exercised; and
3d. Because the issuing of patents for lands was, by statute,
the duty of the President of the United States.
On the 8th of July a writ of mandamus was issued, directed to Mr. Browning, or to his successor in office, commanding him to convey to McGarrahan the land in question.
Four months before, Mr. Browning had retired from the
office of Secretary of the Interior, and had been succeeded
by the now present incumbent, the Hon. J. D. Cox. And
on the same day, the 8th of July, this writ was served upon
Mr. Cox, as one of the parties named in the alternativejudgment. No proceedings of any kind were taken upon the
retirement of Mr. Browning, to revive the suit against his
successor, Mr. Cox, or to make him a party, and no notice
of the pendency of the case was given to him by the relator
or by the court, or any requirement made of him to answer
the application on its merits.
Mr. boar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Ashton, special counsel,
for the Secretary:
The case presented by the record, is:
1st. A peremptory mandamus issued against the head of
a department, in a suit instituted against his predecessor,

Dec. 1869.]

Tni

SCREITARY V. McGARRAHAN.

Argument against the mandamus.

to which the incumbent had never been made, or become, a
party.
2d. A peremptory mandamus awarded against the head
of a department, in a case arising under laws which it is his
duty to administer and execute, upon an ex parle statement
of a claimant before his department, without any exhibition,
on the part of the government he represents, of the truth of
the matter in controversy, and without any opportunity being
affbrded by the court for such exhibition of the matter thus
sought to be subjected to judicial determination ; and
3d. A judicial order to the head of a department to issue
a patent for lands, which the facts officially known to him
might show to be lands that Congress had expressly excepted
from the grant made in the 4th section of the act of July
23d, 1866, under which the relator claimed.
No instance of judicial usurpation of authority, so palpable, has been brought to the attention of this court.
In Gainesv. Thompson,* Miller, J., in delivering the opinion
of the court, took occasion to review the previous adjudications upon this subject, and to expound, in terms even clearer
than had been before employed, the doctrine they all enunciate, that " an officer to whom public duties are confided by
law is not subject to the control of the courts in the exercise
of the judgment and discretion which the law reposes in him
as part of his official functions."
The reports of the decisions of this court contain eight
cases in all, in which heads of departments and other executive officers were sought to be controlled by this prerogative writ of mandamus; but in only onet was the attempted
control sanctioned by this court. These cases came up from
the district.t In two of them only, the court below issued
writs of mandamus. In the first, this court affirmed the
judgment; and in the others it reversed the decision of
the court below. Of these eight cases, one was against the
Postmaster-General;ยง two were against the Secretary of
- Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 618.
1
lb.,
supra; Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Wallace, 522.
Kendall's Case, supra.

* 7 Wallace, 852.

302

Tim SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the mandamus.

the Treasury;* two against the Secretary of the Navy;t one
against the Public Printer; I one against the Commissioner
of Patents ;ยง and one against the Commissioner of the Land
Office.II
In all of these cases the doctrine is enforced, as a fundamental principle of our political system, that the Judiciary
is forbidden to interfere with the exercise of executive discretion; or, as the court expresses it, the writ of mandamus
lies only where there is a refusal to perform a ministerial
act involving no exercise of judgment or discretion.
2. It is indisputable that the duty imposed upon the executive officers who may be charged with the execution of the
statute, under which the relator claims, is not ministerial in
its character, within the meaning of these authorities, but
is in the highest degree executive, as that term is defined in
Mississippi v. Johnson.**
In the case of United States v. The Commissioner of the Lod
Office,tt where the application was for a mandamus to compel
the issuing of a patent, Nelson, J., said, the case " calls for
the exercise of the judicial functions of the officer, and these
of no ordinary character. The duty is not merely ministerial, but involves judgment and discretion, which cannot be
controlled by this court."
The right of pre-emption given to the assignees of rejected
Mexican grants plainly depends upon a variety of facts and
conditions, which must be established to the satisfaction of
and according to the rules provided by the Commissioner
of the Land Office; whether they purchased in good faith,
and for valuable consideration; whether they have used, improved, and continued in the possession of the land in the
Reeside v. Walker, 11 Howard, 272; United States v. Guthrie, 17 Id.

284.
t Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Peters, 497; Brashear v. Mason, 6 Howard, 92.
united States v. Seaman, 17 Howard, 230.
Commissioner v. Whiteley, 4 Wallace, 522.
i United States v. Commissioner, 5 Id. 563.
Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Id. 522.
*
4 Id. 498.
ft 5 Wallace, 568; and see United States v. Seaman, 17 Howard, 230;
Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wallace, 853.

Dec. 1869.]

THE SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.
Argument against the mandamus.

manner prescribed by the statute; whether any valid adverse
title or right exists; whether the land has been properly sur-.
veyed; whether the facts have been proved " under the regulations of the Commissioner of the General Land Office;"
whether the lands are within the excepted locality; and,
finally, whether the lands contain mines of gold, silver, copper, or cinnabar.
3. Mr. Browning's return was intended to raise a simple
question of jurisdiction upon the face of the act of July 23d,
1866. The facts of the case of the relator were not disclosed.
Upon that return the court awarded a peremptory mandamus-a final judgment upon a plea in abalement. The court,
without being informed, or requiring or desiring information, as to the actual situation of the land, assumed not only
that the facts were as the statute required, in order to give
a right under it, but that upon those ficts nothing was left
to the judgment of the Land Department, and a mere ministerial duty devolved upon it to issue a patent to the relator. It is plain that such a judgment is without warrant
of law, and void.
4. Great as was the error of the court below in rendering
a final judgment in this proceeding as against the defendant, Mr. Browning, its error in rendering such a judgment
against his successor, Mr. Cox, was still more flagrant.
The imperative rule of the law of mandamus is that, previously to the making of the application to the court for a
writ to command the performance of any particular act, an
express and distinct demand or request to perform it must
have been made by the prosecutor to the defendant, who
must have refused to comply with such demand, either in
direct terms or by conduct from which a refusal can be conclusively implied.*
In addition, the doctrine of this court has limited the
power of the courts to issue this writ, to cases of acts required by law of the individual rather than of the officer-a
doctrine explained by the court in United States v. Guthrie,
and in Kendall's Case.
Taipping on Mandauus, 283.

304

THE SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.

][Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor orthe mandamus.

It might well be in any case, that while a particular incumbent had refused to perform an act required by law, his
successor would not refuse, upon proper demand being
made. The law, therefore, entitles the successor to the same
opportunity to comply or refuse, as was given to the incumbent against whom the suit is brought.
5. This court has, in effbect, determined that the duty and
power of issuing patents does not devolve upon the Land
Department, or upon the Secretary of the Interior, who is
vested with supervisory and appellate authority over that
department, in such a sense as to render the Commissioner
of the Land Office, or the Secretary of the Interior, liable
in any case to be proceeded against in this form of action.
In United Slates ii. Commissioner of Land Office,* Nelson, J.,
in delivering the opinion of the court, took occasion to say,
that " patents are to be signed by the Presidentin person, or
in his name by a secretary under his direction, and countersigned by the Recorder of the General Land Office."t
Mr. Merriman, contra:
The petition sets forth the facts entitling the relator to a
patent for the land claimed, and that these facts had been
proven to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Interior;
that those facts had been determined by him, but that the
secretary refused to issue the patent without any just cause.
This was not denied by the secretary, but he simply interposed a denial of the jurisdiction of the court in the matter.
Was the denial well founded? The General Land Office
is a part and parcel of the Department of the Interior, and
its officers are subject to the directions of the secretary of
that department. It is his duty to see that they perform
their duties. It is their duty to issue patents for lands to
persons by law entitled to them. To one officer is.delegated
the duty of engrossing, recording, certifying, and affixing
Act March 2d, 1833, 4 Stat. at Large, 663; Act March 3d, 1841, 5 Id.
417.
t 5 Wallace, 563.

Dec. 1869.]

THE SECRETARY

V.

MCGARRAHAN.

Opinion of the court.

the seal of the Land Office, and issuing such patents; to
another the duty of signing the name of the President.
The entire duties of issuing patents are performed by certain specified officers. The President is required to perform
no personal act in the matter, and indeed the same language
of the statute is used in reference to the commissioner as to
the secretary for signing patents, each to act under the direction of the President of the United States. The rule
being held that the commissioner is subject to the supervision of the head of the department, the same reason will
apply to the application of the rule to the subordinate and
strictly ministerial officer who affixes the signature to the
patent.
In this case the secretary, instead of directing his subordinates to perform the duty of issuing the patents to which
the relator is entitled by law, refuses entirely to do so.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Land grants purchased of Mexican grantees or their assigns, in good faith and for a valuable consideration, where
such grants have subsequently been rejected or where the
lands so purchased have been excluded from the final survey
of the grant, may be purchased of the United States by such
prior purchasers, after the same are surveyed under existing
laws, at the minimum price established by law, in cases
where there is no valid adverse private right or title; and
where such prior purchasers have used, improved, and con-

tinued in the actual possession of the premises according to
the tenor of their original purchase, they first making proof
of those facts as required in the seventh section of the act to
quiet the title to such grants, under regulations to be prescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office, as
provided in the same section of that act.*
Annexed to that right, however, are three other conditions, one of which it becomes important to notice. They
are in the form of provisos, and the one to be noticed is that
the right to purchase, as given in the body of the section,
* 14 Stat. at Large, 220.

VOL. IX.

20

306

THE SECRETARY V. MoGARRAHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"shall not extend to lands containing mines of gold, silver,
copper, or cinnabar."
By the record it appears that the relator, on the fifth of
October, 1858, addressed a communication to 0. 11. Browning, Secretary of the Interior, in which he represented that
he, the relator, on the twenty-second of December, 1857,
purchased of Vincente P. Gomez the rancho situated in
California and known as Panoche Grande, and that the
claim to the same had since been rejected by the decree
of the Supreme Court reversing the decree of the District
Court confirming the claim, and prayed that he, by virtue
of the provision contained in the seventh section of that act,
might be allowed to purchase the same of the United States,
supporting his alleged right to do so by the following representations:
That the land embraced in the claim was a Mexican grant;
that he purchased it of the original donee in good faith and
for a valuable consideration ; that the land, since the claim
was rejected, has been regularly surveyed under existing
laws; that there is no valid adverse private right or title to
the same, and that he has continued in the actual possession
of the tract since the claim was rejected, as required by law;
but lie did not allege that the land did not contain mines of
gold, silver, copper, or cinnabar, nor did he offer any other
proof of the facts set forth than what is contained in the exhibits annexed to the communication.
Prior to the date of that paper, to wit, on the fourteenth
of August preceding, the Secretary of the Interior addressed
an official letter upon the subject to the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, in which he adverted to the fact that a
bill was pending in the Senate relating to the claim, and
stated that in his judgment it would be highly improper for
the department to do anything to affect the title to the land
until Congress should dispose of the claim. Pursuant to
that view he, at the same time, directed the commissioner to
instruct the local officers to suspend action in all such cases
until they should receive further orders. Correspondence
ensued between the secretary and the counsel of the relator,

Dec. 1869.]

THE SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.
Opinion of the court.

but the secretary, on the twenty-eighth of November following, informed the counsel that he adhered to the views expressed in the directions which he gave to the Commissioner
of the General Land Office.
Dissatisfied with the decision of the secretary, the relator,
on the thi'd of December, of the same year, presented a petitioti to the Supreme Court of this district, in which he prayed
that a mandamus might issue directing "0 . I. Browning,
Secretary of the Interior," to issue or cause to be issued i
patent for the land described in the petition, and for such
other or further relief as may seem meet and proper. Service was duly made, and on the eighth of the same month a
rule was issued commanding the secretary to show cause, on
the third Monday of January following, why the writ of
mandamus should not be issued as prayed in the petition.
le appeared, as commanded, and pleaded that the court had
no jurisdiction to grant the writ, for the following reasons:
(1.) Because the subject-matter of the petition is purely of
executive cognizance, resting in the judgment and discretion
of executive officers in the ordinary discharge of their official
duties. (2.) Because the subject-matter is one in which judgMent and discretion are to be exercised. (3.) Because the
issuing of patents for lands is, by the act of Congress, the
duty of the President.
On the fifth of February following the parties filed a stipulation in the case, agreeing that the cause "be submitted to
the court upon briefs and arguments, and that the said court
may render its judgment in vacation as of the present term
and of the day of such submission." Submitted, as aforesaid, the case was held under advisement until the eighth of
July following, when the court, two justices signing the decree, determined that the prayer of the petition be granted,
and that a writ of mandamus issue, directed to the said 0.
H. Browning, Secretary of the Interior, or to his successor
in office, commanding him, upon payment of the sum therein
specified, to issue or cause to be issued to the relator a patent
from the United States of the tract of land described in his
petition.

308

THE SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Four months before that judgment was rendered, the Secretary of the Interior, who was the party respondent in the
litigation, resigned his office, and J. D. Cox, the present
Secretary of the Interior, had not only been appointed his
successor, but was in the regular discharge of all its duties.
Although none of these facts are disputed, still the record
shows that the writ of mandamus was addressed to the predecessor of the present incumbent, or his successor in office,
and that the writ, on the eighth of July in the same year,
was served on the present secretary, who was not named in
the writ, was never a party to the suit, and never had any
notice of the proceedings. Judgment having been rendered
without notice to the present secretary, and without a hearing on his part, or any opportunity to be heard, he sued out
a writ of error and removed the cause into this court.
,Founded, as the proceeding in this case is, upon a claim
to land which has been three times under examination in
this court before the present. writ of error was sued out, it is
deemed necessary and proper to advert to the views expressed by the court on those occasions in respect to the
validity of the claim and the means adopted to procure its
confirmation. Reference to the docket entries will show
that the case was first presented here at the December Term,
1858, by the claimant, as an appeal not prosecuted; and it
also appears that a copy of the record having been produced
by him, and the certificate of the clerk that the appeal had
been duly prayed and allowed, the case on his motion was
docketed and dismissed, in conformity to the ninth rule of
the court, for want of prosecution. Such a proceeding when
bondfide has the effect to vacate the appeal and leave the decree of the subordinate court in full force, and the docket
entries also show that the mandate was issued in pursuance
of that order, and that it was subsequently delivered to the
assignee of the claimant.
Nothing further was done in the cause during that term,
but at the succeeding term the Attorney-General filed a motion to rescind the decree of the preceding term dismissing
the case, and to-revoke the mandate, alleging for cause that

Dec. 1869.]

THE SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.
Opinion of the court.

the decree and mandate bad both been procured by misrepresentations and fraud. Affidavits were filed by the AttorneyGeneral showing that the cause was still pending in the District Court, that no appeal had been granted, that the cause,
when the claimant made his motion to docket and dismiss
it, was not legally before this court. Pending that motion
three motions for mandamus were filed by the claimant:
First, to compel the District Court to file the mandate and
to execute their decree. Second, to compel the District
Court to dismiss the application of the United States to open
the decree and grant a new trial. Third, to compel the
Surveyor-General to survey the land confirmed to the claimant by the decree of the District Court.
Both parties were heard, and the court overruled the several motions filed by the claimant, but granted the motion
of the Attorney. General, upon the ground that the allegations of the motion were fully proved.*
Attempts were subsequently made by the claimant to enjoin the clerk and district attorney from furnishing a certified copy of the record to enable the United States to appeal,
but the injunction was refused, and the appeal was perfected
and duly entered here; and the next step of the claimant
was to file a motion to dismiss the appeal, alleging that the
court had no jurisdiction of the case, but the court unanimously overruled the motion for the reasons expressed in the
opinion.T
Subsequently the cause was heard upon the merits, and the
court held that the claim was invalid and fraudulent, and
reversed the decree of the District Court, and remanded the
cause, with directions to dismiss the petition.1
Unless, therefore, the claim of the petitioner is brought
within the terms of the act of Congress referred to in his
petition lie has no right whatever to a patent for the land in
controversy.
Suppose everything which he alleges in his petition is
United States v. Gomez, 23 Howard, 380.
- Same v. Same, 1 Wallace, 690.

$ Same v. Gomez, 8 Id. 766.

THE SECRETARY V. MCGARRAHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

true, still it does not bring his case within the act of Congress, as the petition does not allege that the land does not
contain mines of gold, silver, copper, or cinnabar; and the
record furnishes evidence tending strongly to the conclusion
that such an averment, if made, could not be supported, as
the statement of the land commissioner is that the land
embraced in the claim does contain " valuable quicksilver
mines."
Mere allegation, however, is not sufficient, but the condition is that the claimant shall make proof of the facts required under regulations to be provided by the Commissioner
of the General Land Office. His application to be allowed
to purchase the land was made to the Secretary of the Interior, and he was as much bound to prove that the land did
not contain mines of the description mentioned as he was to
show that his purchase of the donee of the tract was made
in good faith and for a valuable consideration, as he was not
entitled to a patent if the lands contained mines of gold,
silver, copper, or cinnabar, any more than if he had made
the purchase in bad faith and without consideration.
Argument to show that he did not bring his case within
that condition is unnecessary, as the point is clear toa demonstration. He did allege that he purchased the lands in
question of the donee in good faith and for a valuable consideration, but he offered no proof of the alleged fact, except
what may be inferred from the deed annexed to the petition,
bearing date December 22d, 1857, and which purports to
have been executed by the original claimant.
Special reference is made in the petition to the deed of
release given by the occupants of the land to the relator as
supporting the allegation of good faith, but it is entitled to
very little weight, if any, as it bears date six years subsequent to the alleged purchase of the grant.
Evidence was exhibited in the case tending to show that the
lands were surveyed subsequent to the decree of the court rejecting the claim, but it is not proved that the present claimant thereafter continued in the actual possession of the land,
nor that it was free from any adverse private right or title.

Dec. 1869.]

THE

SECRETARY V. MCGARRAHIAN.

311

Opinion of the court.

Such allegations are set forth in the petition, but the record
contains no proof to support the first allegation, and nothing
to support the second, except what is derived from the statement of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, that
no report of any individual adverse interests was found on
the files of his office. Tested solely by the merits, therefore,
it is quite clear that the application of the relator could not
have been properly granted, as' the proofs before the department were not sufficient to warrant a decision in his favor.
Adjudged invalid and fraudulent, as the claim had been
by the unanimous decision of this court, it was quite proper
that the secretary should require satisfactory proof that the
case as presented came within the terms of the act of Congress
relied on before consenting to give the claimant the benefitof its provision; and when it appeared that the petition addressed to him was deficient in allegation, and that the proofs
were insufficient in all particulars, except, perhaps, one, he
was entirely justified in rejecting the application.
Evidently the case, if examined upon the merits, was not
made out by the claimant, but the more decisive objection
to the judgment of the court below is that the case, from its
very nature, is one which was exclusively within the jurisdiction of the executive officers of the government, because
it was one requiring proofs, hearing, and decision, and involved the exercise of judicial judgment and discretion, and
consequently was 6ot one where the action of the Department of the Interior is subject to re-examination by the Supreme Court of this district.
Since the decision of this court in the case of Mclntire v.
Wood,* it has been regarded as the settled law of the court
that the Circuit Courts of the United States in the several
States do not possess the power to issue writs of mandamus,
except in cases in which it may be necessary to the exercise
of their jurisdiction.t
Authority to that effect might doubtless be given to those
courts by an act of Congress; but the insuperable difficulty
*7 Cranch, 504.

n 0Riggs v. Johnson Co., 6 Wallace, 198.

TaR SECRETARY V. McGARRAHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

at present is, that neither the Judiciary Act nor any other
'act of Congress has conferred upon them any such power.
Antecedent to the decision of this court in the case of Kendall v. The United States,* grave doubts were entertained
whether any court established by an act of Congress possessed any such jurisdiction; but the majority of this court
came to the conclusion in that case, that the Circuit Court
of this district might issue the writ of mandamus to an executive officer residing here, commanding him to perform a
ministerial act required of him by law, and it is not denied
that the court below possesses all the power in that behalf
which the Circuit Court of the district possessed at that
time. Subsequent decisions of this court have affirmed the
same principle; but in all of the subsequent cases the principle is strictly limited to the enforcement of mere ministerial acts not involving the necessity of taking proofs, and
it has never been extended to eases where controverted matters were to be judicially heard and decided by the officer
to whom the writ is required to be addressed.t
Though mandamus may sometimes lie against an executive officer to compel him to perform a mere ministerial act
required of him by law, yet such an officer, to whom public
duties are confided by law, is not subject to the control of the
courts in the exercise of the judgment and discretion which
the law reposes in him as part of his official functions.t
Discussion of the principle, however, deems to be unnecessary, as all of the cases appear to affirm the same rule, that
the writ cannot issue where discretion and judgment are to
be exercised by the officer, and only in cases where the act
required to be done is merely ministerial, and where the
relator is without any other adequate remedy.ยง
Even if it could be shown that the court below possessed
* 12 Peters, 608.

t Decatur v. Paulding, 14 Peters, 497; Brashear v. Mason, 6 Howard, 99.
1 Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wallace, 863; Reeside v. Walker, 11 Howard,
289.
United States v. Seaman, 17 Howard, 280; United States v. Guthrie, 1b.
804; Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Wallace, 622; United States
v. Commissioner, 5 Id. 568.

Dec. 1869.]

THE SECRETARY V. McGARRANAN.

313

Opinion of the court.

the power to issue the writ in such a case, still it is clear that
the judgment in this case would be erroneous, as the case
upon the merits was not submitted to the court under the
stipulation. Undoubtedly the appearance of the respondent
was general, but he pleaded only to the jurisdiction of the
court, and it appears that the question of jurisdiction was
the only point argued and submitted for decision. But the *
court decided the whole case without proofs, and without
any further hearing. Taking the record as it is exhibited,
such certainly is the clear inference from it, and it is not
suggested that it does not correctly represent what occurred.
Assuming the record to be correct, comment upon the proceeding is unnecessary, as, in the view of this court, it is
clearly erroneous.
Several other objections are also taken to the proceedings
by the Attorney-General, which are equally decisive that the
judgment of the court below must be reversed, one or two
of which will be briefly noticed.
Service was made upon 0. H. Browning, Secretary of the
Interior; but the fact is conceded, or not denied, that hp had
resigned and gone out of office four months before the decision of the court was announced. When he resigned, of
course the suit abated, but the court gave judgment against
him as if he were still in office, and decreed that the writ
of mandamus should be directed to him and to his successor
in the office. Complaint may well be made by that party
that he no longer possesses the power to execute the commands of the writ, and the present secretary may well complain that he is adjudged to be in default though he never
refused to allow the relator to purchase the land, and that
the judgment was rendered against him without notice and
without any opportunity to be heard.
Notice to the defendant, actual or constructive, is essential
to the jurisdiction of all courts, and the better opinion is,
that a judgment rendered without notice may be shown to
be void, when brought collaterally before the court as evidence.*
* Nations v. Johnson, 24 Howard, 203.

314

THE SECRETARY V. MOGARRAHAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Patents for land are required to be signed by the President
in person, or in his name by a secretary under his direction,
and they are to be countersigned by the Recorder of the
General Land Office.*
Such patents cannot be issued and delivered to any party
without the signature of the President, and no proceeding
to compel either the Commissioner of the General Land
Office or the Secretary of the Interior to issue such a patent
can be sustained while that provision of law remains unrepealed.t
Congress may so provide, and in that event it would be the
duty of the secretary to carry the provision into effect; but
the act of Congress referred to in the petition as the source
of power in this case gives the Secretary of the Interior no
authority upon the subject. On the contrary, the express
provision is, that the regulations for executing the law shall
be provided by the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and the better opinion is, that the application to be allowed
to purchase the land embraced in such rejected claim should
be Wade to the Commissione , and not to the Secretary of
the Interior, as the right to purchase of the United States
will never vest until the land is surveyed under existing

laws.
It appears by the record in this case that a survey of some
kind was presented to the secretary, but whether it was one
made under existing laws or not is not sufficiently shown.
Viewed in any light, the Secretary of the Interior has no
original cognizance of applications of this description. He
may, perhaps, as the head of the department, exercise an
appellate and supervisory power over the doings of the
Commissioner, but the original application should have been
made to the Commissioner of the General Land Office.t
Mr. Justice MILLER: I agree to the judgment of the
court on the ground set forth by this court in the case of
* 4 Stat. at Large, 663; 6 Id. 417.
t

United States v. Land Commissioner, 5 Wallace, 663.

1 9 Stat. at Large, 395.

Dec. 1869.]

LYNCH V. BERNAL.
Syllabus.

Gaines v. Thompson,* that the courts have no jurisdiction to
control the actions of the departments in such cases.
I do not think that the merits of the present claim were
before the court, and I decline to express any opinion
upon it.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

tions to

and the cause remanded with direc-

DISMISS THE PETITION.

LYNCH

ET AL. V.

BERNAL

ET AL.

1. The Board of Commissioners created under the act of Congress, entitled
"An act to ascertain and settle private land claims in the State of California," passed March 3d, 1851, had jurisdiction of a claim made under
a grant of a lot by a Mexican governor within the limits of the pueblo
of San Francisco; and such claim was not required to be presented in
the name of the corporate authorities of the city.
2. The eighth section of that act requires every person claiming lands in
California by virtue of any right or title derived from the Spanish or
Mexican government, to present his claims to the Board of Commissioners for examination. The fourteenth section qualifies this general
language, and declares that the provisions of the act shall not extend
to lots held under grants from any corporation or town to which lands
have been granted for the establishment of a town by the Spanish or
Mexican government; nor " to any city, or town, or village lot, which
city, town, or village existed on the 7th of July, 1846;" and provides that the claims for such lots shall be presented by the corporate
authorities of the town; or if the land, upon which the town, city, or
village is situated, was originally granted to an individual, shall be presented in the name of such individual: Held, 1st, that the second clause
of this section does not apply to all lots situated within the limits of
a city, town, or village, which existed on the 7th of July, 1846, but
only to the lots owned or claimed by such city, town, or village; 2d,
that the object of the section was to give to lotholders deriving title from
a common source-from the authorities of a pueblo or town, or from an
individual who was originally the grantee of the land upon which the
pueblo or town is situated-the benefit of the examination by the board
of the general title under which they hold, and relieve the commissioners from the necessity of considering a multitude of separate claims for

* 7 Wallace, 347.

