BARNEY V.

SCHMEIDER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

proceedings before the district judge they could be taken at
chambers as well as in court.
As it respects the act of Congress in question, no special
proceedings are prescribed to the Court of Claims or to the
claimant. Any person claiming to be the owner of abandoned or captured property within the meaning of the act
may, at any time within two years after the suppression
of the rebellion, present his claim for the proceeds to the
Court of Claims, and they are to proceed, in the usual way,
to hear and adjudicate upon the question of ownership and
right to the proceeds, according to the proofs and law of
the case.
We are referred to the 1st section of the act 25th June,
1868,* as bearing upon this motion, which provides for the
allowance of an appeal by the government from all final judgments of the Court of Claims adverse to it, whether such
judgment shall have been rendered by virtue of the general
or any special power of said court. We can only say that
in the view the court have taken of this case this section has
no application to it. The judgment has not been rendered
by the court under any special power conferred; and it is
not pretended that the effect of it is to take away the right
of the claimant to appeal from a judgment under the general
jurisdiction of the court.
MOTION GRANTED.

BARNEY V.

SCIIMEIDER.

1. It is not sufficient to sustain a verdict for the plaintiff, that the testimony
on which it was founded was known to the court by whom the jury was
charged to find such a verdict. The evidence must be submitted to the
jury, or the charge is erroneous.
2. The question, whether certain imported goods were similar to certain
other goods described in the revenue law, for the purposes of customs
duties, is a mixed question of law and fact, and cannot, by the mere
charge of the court, be wholly withdrawn from the jury.
15 Stat. at Large, 75.

Dec. 1869.]

BARNEY V.

SCRMEIDER.

Statement of the case.
3. The proper mode of proving papers on file, in any of the departments
or public offices of the government, is by procuring certified copies
from those persons who have them in custody. The counsel for the
government cannot be compelled to produce either such copies or the
originals for the benefit of parties who may be litigating with the government.
4. Notice, therefore, to the party or counsel representing the government to
produce such papers, does not authorize the party giving the notice to
use other copies than those properly certified as above stated.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York, the case being thus:

Schmeider sued Barney, collector for the port of New
York, in the court below, in an action of assumpsit with the
common counts only, to which Barney pleaded the general
issue. The plaintiff's claim was for duties on certain woven
goods alleged to have been unlawfully collected of him by
the defendant 'as collector of the port of New York, and
which had been paid under protest. The act under which
the goods were rated for duties, provided that on all delaines, cashmere delaines, muslin delaines, barege delaines,
comprised wholly or in part of worsted, wool, mohair, or
goat's hair, and on all goods of similar description, not exceeding fifty cents in value per square yard, two cents per square
yard shall be paid. And the point in dispute was whether the
goods of plaintiffs, on which the two cents per yard had been
assessed, were goods of a similar description to those above
mentioned, within the meaning of the act. A jury was called
and sworn, and directed by the court to find a verdict for
the plaintiffs, which was done, and judgment rendered for
the amount claimed.
A paper was found in the record under the caption of
"Case and Exceptions," signed and sealed by the judge who
presided at the trial. This paper set forth some things
which were said to be shown by the evidence, some things
which appeared in evidence, and a large part of it was the
evidence itself. There was also the full charge of the court,
the prayer for instructions on the part of the defendant, which
were refused, and the exceptions of the defendant.

BARNEY V.

SCIIMEIDER.

[Sup. Or.

Counsel for and against.

Among other matters found in the bill of exceptions was
this statement in the charge of the court to the jury:
"The testimony taken on a former trial has, with the consent
of both sides, and with the approbation of the court, been put
in. It is very voluminous. It has not been read before this
jury, nor was it necessary that it should be, for it was delivered
in the hearing of the court only a few days since, and is fresh
in its recollection. There is very little discrepancy in the testimony."
The court then proceeded to tell the jury what this evidence showed that was material to the issue, and to make a
very able argument on the law of the case, and directed the
jury to find for the plaintiff, or rather said, "t t e verdict
ought to be for plaintifh." To this part of the charge the
defendant excepted specially.
In the course of the trial the plaintiff, having given the
defendant due notice to produce at the trial the original appeals made by him to the Secretary of the Treasury, was
permitted to use copies proved by witnesses who mailed the
originals, because defendant did not produce the originals.
This was also excepted to. The questions now here were
these:
1. Whether it was error in the court below, under the
circumstances described, to tell the jury that their verdict
ought to be for the plaintiff.
2. Whether it was error to allow the plaintiff to use the
copies proved by the witnesses who mailed the originals.
3.Whether, on a right construction of the tariff act already quoted, the expression, "goods of a similar description," was confined to one ascertained species of goods, or
was applicable to others in addition; this last question, however, not being necessary to be passed on, if either of the
others were decided in the affirmative.
Mr. Roar, Attorney- General, and Mr. Field, Assistant Attorney- General, for the United States. Mr. Evarts, contra.

Dec. 1869.]

BARNEY

V.

SCHMEIDER.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The seventh amendment of the Constitution declares, that
in suits at law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved.
This right may be waived by the party. The act of March
3d, 1865,* provides a mode by which the parties to a suit
may submit the matter proper for a jury to the court; and
the case of Norris v. Jackson, decided a few days ago,t gives
the mode of proceeding under that statute, and explains
what may be received in such cases, and how the matter
proper for review may be brought before this court.
If, then, the parties in the present case had been willing
to waive ajury and permit the court to find both the law and
the facts, there was no difficulty in doing this, and in presenting the law to this court for review. F r it is never to
be forgotten that, in common law cases, it is the ruling of
the inferior court on the law alone which this court is authorized to review. The common law admitted of no re-examination of the facts found by a jury, except by granting a
new trial in the same court in which the verdict was rendered, and the constitutional amendment just referred to,
forbids any other mode of re-examination than that which
accords with the rules of common law.
As the defendant in this case did not waive his right to
have the facts tried by a jury, it was the duty of the court to
submit such facts to the jury that was sworn to try them.
It is needless to say that this was not done. The statement is clear that the case was decided upon the testimony
taken on a former trial, and not read before this jury, because the court had heard it in the first case, and did not
deem it necessary to be heard by the jury in this ease.
It is possible to have a jury trial in which the plaintiff,
having failed to offer any evidence at all, or any competent
evidence, the jury finds for the defendant for that very reason. And in such case it is strictly correct, if the plaintiff
does not take a non-suit, for the court to instruct the jury to
*13 Stat. at Large, 501.

t Supr'a, 125.

BARNEY V.

SCHMEIDER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

find for the defendant. But we have never before heard of
a case in which the jury were permitted, much less instructed,
to find a verdict for the plaintiff on evidence of which they
knew nothing except what is detailed to them in the charge
of the court. It is obvious that if such a verdict can be
supported here, when the very act of the court in doing this
is excepted to and relied on as error, the trial by jury may
be preserved in name, but will be destroyed in its essential
value, and become nothing but the machinery through
which the court exercises the functions of a jury without its
responsibility.,
It is insisted with much ingenuity that in this case there
was no disputed fact for the jury to pass upon, and that tbe
only issue in the case being one of law, it was proper for the
court to dispose of it. It this were so, the instruction of
the court might be sustained, provided the undisputed facts
necessary to sustain the verdict had been submitted to the
jury. But let us see if this assumption is supported by the
record. The form of the pleadings shows nothing and admits nothing. The plaintiff then must make a case by evidence to the jury. Looking into the case stated and as
though it had been read to the jury, we find that plaintiff's
claim is for duties on certain goods unlawfully collected of
him by defendant as collector of the port of New York.
The act under which the goods were rated for duties provides that on all delaines, cashmere delaines, muslin delaines,
barege delaines, comprised wholly or in part of worsted,
wool, mohair, or goat's hair, and on all goods of similar description, not exceeding fifty cents in value per square yard,
two cents per square yard shall be paid. And the point in
dispute was whether the goods of plaintiffs, on which the
two cents per yard had been assessed, were goods of a similar
description to those above mentioned, within the meaning
of the act. Now it is clear that this question alone is one of
mixed law and fact, because until we are informed by testimony as to the nature and character of plaintiff's goods, no
construction or view of the law can be applied to them.
The court can only know by evidence what kind of goods

Dec. 1869.]

BARNEY V.

SCHMEIDER.

Opinion of the court.

were assessed by the collector, and this at once dispels the
idea that the case could in any sense present an abstract
question of law. But before the court or the jury could get
to these questions there were several others, purely matters
of fact, to be decided. The rate at which the goods were
actually assessed, the payment of the duties as thus assessed,
the protest at the time of payment, and the appeal to the
Secretary of the Treasury, were all essential to the plaintiff's
recovery and necessary to be found to the satisfaction of the
jury. The judge also tells us that "there is very little discrepancy in the testimony." But where there is any discrepancy, however slight, the court'must submit the matter
to which it relates to the jury, because it is their province to
weigh and balance the testimony and not the court's. The
proposition is not, therefore, sustained, that nothing but a
question of law was to be decided.
There is another error, however, which, although unimportant in this case, may arise very often in the numerous
suits to recover back taxes paid under protest in the customs
and in the internal revenue departments.
The plaintiffs having given the defendant due notice to
produce at the trial the original appeals made by them to
the Secretary of the Treasury, were permitted to use copies
proved by witnesses who mailed the originals, because defendant did not produce the originals. This was excepted
to and was error, and it would be equally error if the United
States had been the nominal, as it was the real, defendant in
the suit. The papers showing this appeal, when filed with
the secretary, became part of the records and archives of his
office, and the law is well settled that in such case the originals need not be produced in any trial, but that copies of
them, certified by the officer in whose charge they properly
are, may be used with the same effect as the originals. If
the government needs these copies she produces them when
she proposes to use them. If any one else wants to use them
the law provides the means by which such copies can be produced. They are the best attainable evidence, and must be
producel,.unless some sufficient reason is shown for not doing

SWAIN

V. SEAMENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

so. The government is not bound to furnish either the originals or certified copies to suitors with whom it is contending, unless "Upon demand at the proper office, and tender of
the lawful fees.
For this and for the other errors mentioned the judgment
must be
REVERSED, AND A VENIRE FACIAS DE NOVO IS ORDERED.

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

1. A contract to build, on a lot sold upon mortgage, a mill fifty feet wide by
one hundred and fifty long, is not, as a proposition of law, substantially
comp!ied with by building one that is seventy-eight feet wide by a hundred long, even thougs the purpose of the contract was to give the
vendor security for the purchase-money of the lot, and though the mill
of the latter dimensions have cost more and be better adapted to the purposes intended than such a one as was contracted for.
2. But if the vendor, having made an agreement that upon a mill of the
former dimensions being built on the lot sold, he will accept policies of
insurance on it for the amount of another mortgage collateral to one
given on the property sold, and he does accept such policies, he cannot
decline to enter satisfaction on such other mortgage because the mill was
not of the dimensions contracted for. He waives by such acceptance of
the policies all right to object to the variation in the construction.
3. Where a person tacitly encourages an act to be done, he cannot afterwards
exercise his legal right in opposition to such consent, if his conduct or
acts of encouragement induced the other party to change his position,
so that he will be pecuniarily prejudiced by the assertion of such adversary claim.
4. The statute of frauds cannot be set up as a defence to the performance of
one formal item of an agreement, where the contract has been fully performed by the party asking such performance, and, except as to such
remaining formal item, by the other party also.

from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin, in which
court Seamens and others filed a bill against Swain, praying
that a mortgage executed to him, Swain, by Medbery and
wife, on certain lots, of which he, Seamens, and the others
were now owners, in Wisconsin, might be cancelled.
It appeared that in 1855, Swain sold to Medbery and
APPEAL

