JONES V. BOLLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

it is only necessary to state the proposition now. As the
question thus sought to be raised here was not raised in the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky, we cannot consider it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

JONES V. BOLLES.
1. Equity has always jurisdiction of fraud, misrepresentation, and concealment, and this does not depend on discovery.
2. Where an agreement against which a complainant in equity asks to have
relief, is perpetual in its nature, and the keeping of it on foot is a fraud
against the party complaining, so that the only effectual relief against
it is to have it annulled, the case is one for equity, not for law.
8. Where a bill is filed by stockholders to enjoin the setting up of a claim
for purchase-money, against the lands of a company whose capital stock
is divided into shares, the ground of the bill being that the party now
setting up the claim, induced the complainants to buy their shares by
fraudulently representing that the property sold to the company was
unincumbered, and that he had no interest in it-the agents of the
company also joining in such misrepresentations-the company may be
properly made a defendant, though no relief is prayed for against it,
but rather relief in its favor.
4. A sufficient interest in the stock of a company will in such case be inferred, where the bill expressly states that the complainant purchased
on his own account and in trust for other parties a large number of shares,
and paid therefor upwards of $25,000; and then afterwards states that
the defendant threatened to bring an action against the company to enforce the pretended claim, whereby the stock of the company, which the
complainant alleges he purchased in good fsitb, and which he still held,
was liable to become greatly depreciated in value; this statement being
nowhere denied in the answer-the defendant averring only his ignorance on the subject-and the allegation being fully corroborated by the
proof, at least so far forth as relates to the purchase of stock by the complainant; and no question having been made on the examination as to
the complainants' still holding the stock.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin; the case being thus:
Bolles, a citizen of Massachusetts, on behalf of himself
and all other stockholders of the Mineral Point Mining Company, filed his bill of complaint in the court below against

Dec. 1869.]

JONES V. BOLLES.
Statement of the case.

one Jones, and the said company, the former a citizen, and
the latter a corporation, of Wisconsin, for an injunction to
restrain Jones from suing for, claiming or demanding against
the said company the purchase-money of a certain tract of
mining land in Wisconsin, or any mineral rents for mineral
raised on the same. The matter set forth in the bill as a
ground for this relief was a charge of misrepresentation and
fraud on the part of Jones, perpetrated at Boston in Massachusetts, in November, 1-865, whereby he induced him, the complainant, Bolles, who was a broker, to purchase for himself
and other persons a large amount of the capital stock of the
said mining company. The substance of the specific charges
was that Jones and others, agents of the company, represented to him, the complainant, Bolles, that the company
was seized in fee of the said tract of land; that it had been
conveyed to the company by him, Jones, for the consideration of $30,000, which had been fully paid and satisfied, and
that the title of the company was perfect and unincumbered;
and, to beget further assurance in him, the complainant, that
they exhibited a warranty deed from Jones to the company,
and an abstract of title, showing an unincumbered title to
the lands; that they further represented .that the land was
of great value for mining purposes, and that Jones had no
interest in the 'property; that the complainant being entirely
ignorant of the facts except as represented to him by Jones,
and relying on those representations, purchased on his own
account and in trust for others a large amount of the capital
stock of the company, and paid upwards of $25,000 for it,
and afterwards sold still larger amounts to parties who paid
for the same on the faith of the said assurance that the property was unincumbered. The bill then alleged that at the
time of the giving of the deed referred to, an agreement was
made between Jones and the company (a copy of which was
set out), the existence of which was carefully concealed by
Jones when he made the representations complained of (but
which he now asserted to be valid and subsisting), by which
he claimed a large balance to be due to him for mineral rents
and purchase-money of the said lands, and threatened to

JONES v. BOLLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

bring an action against the company therefor, which, if successful, would greatly depreciate the stock of the company,
and seriously embarrass it.
Jones in his answer to the bill, denied the principal charge
in the aggregate as made (a mode of answer which this court
observed, in passing, was altogether too narrow a mode of
denial), admitted that he, with the president and secretary of
the company, were in Boston at the time alleged and attended a meeting at Bolles's house, on the subject, and that
he understood that the secretary had made representations
to the effect complained of, but that the room was large and
pretty well filled, and that he did not hear it. That he afterwards expostulated with the secretary for having made such
a statement, and took some pains to inform some persons that
it was not true. But he did not allege that he ever so informed the complainant, lie denied that he made any such
representations himself. lie admitted the agreement complained of and insisted upon its validity. le did not deny
Bolles's interest as alleged in the stock of the company,
though he averred ignorance on the subject of it. Other
points were made in the answer, but what has bee.n stated is
sufficient to show the principal issue made in the suit.
The Circuit Court, after full proofs, which showed among
other things alleged, the purchase of the stock, decreed in
favor of the complainant, enjoined the defendant from bringing any action against the company, directed him to execute
a release, and declared the agreement entered into between
the company and the defendant void. Whereupon Jones,
the defendant below, appealed. No question was made on
the examination below, as to Bolles still holding his stock.
Mr. M. H. Carpenter, for the appellant:
I. The whole of the complainant's case rests, as regards
merits, upon loose verbal alleged admissions, made under
circumstances of all others most likely to be misunderstood
or misconstrued. They are susceptible of precisely the explanation given by the defendant; his explanation carries
upon its face evidence of its truth. The attempt is to hold

Dec. 1869.]

,JONES

v.

BOLLES.

Argument for the appellant.

a party responsible for general conversation held at a kind
of social party; that conversation relating to real estate, the
title of which might have been fully understood by the examination of an abstract which was publicly exhibited. Can
this be done?
II. But there are difficulties as to jurisdiction and pleading.
The basis of the prayer for relief is, that Jones threatens
to bring a suit against his co-defendant, the mining company,
upon a ffilse and fraudulent claim, and that thereby the complainant is liable to suffer injury and sustain damage, and
one of the defendants, the company, is liable to be greatly
embarrassed in conducting its affairs. Assume all this to be
true. Then,
1st. If Jones made false representations whereby the complainant was induced to purchase stock and was injured, the
courts of common law afford an ample remedy. If he made
true representations and afterwards attempted to do that
which, if consummated, would operate as a fraud upon the
complainant, the courts of law still afford a remedy. If his
representations operated as an estoppel against his setting up
a claim against the company, it would be as operative a defence at law as it would in equity. If the threatened action
had been, or were to be brought by Jones, against the company, the answer would be that the claim is false, fraudulent,
and brought for the purpose of extortion. This affords a
perfect defence in law. If the claim were true and not false,
but Jones had estopped himself from enforcing it by making
false representations, that is, by representing to the purchasers that he had no claim against the company, and the
contrary of those representations if acted upon, would injure and embarrass the company, the defence is still perfect
in the action at law. A court of law has thus full and adequate jurisdiction of the subject-matter of the action, whatever may be the alleged particular phase of it.
Yet further. The case stated does not constitute an equitable cause of action. It does not show wherein or how
much damage the plaintiff is liable to sustain, and does not
pretend that any has been sustained. Courts of equity will

JONES

v. BOLLES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the appellant.

indeed protect against great threatened injury where the
mischief will be irreparable. But there is no allegation here
of irreparable injury; no averment that Jones is irresponsible; no statement of facts from which injury can be inferred.
The only allegation upon that subject is that the stock which
plaintiff now holds is liable to become greatly depreciated in
value.
The bill is not one for discovery. All of the facts are
known, and susceptible of proof without any testimony to
be furnished by the answer.
2d. But how does a court of equity, on such a case as the
one assumed, acquire jurisdiction ? The mining company
is not charged with fault or collusion. It is not alleged that
if sued by Jones, it will not defeat the action ; nor that it is
incapable of transacting its own business, and protecting its
stockholders; nor is it shown how stockholders so large as
the complainant and his associates, have not a sufficient control of the afliirs of the company; nor that the company
could not have brought an action in its own State court to
remove a cloud upon its title, if it was likely to be embarrassed by Jones setting up a false and fraudulent claim. If
then there is no collusion, or concert of action charged between the defendants, and relief be demanded against both
or all in regard to the same thing, and no cause of action be
stated against one, there is a misjoinder of parties as to both
or all, and, of course, either may demur.
3d. The proof does not show that the complainant, Bolles,
is the owner of any stock in the Mineral Point Mining Company. le avoids saying specifically that he owns any stock,
or that lie owned any at the time of filing the bill. No stockholder has united with him in prosecuting this action. If it
be true that he owns one share, worth perhaps $5, he occupies the position of obtaining an injunction to restrain the
company from paying an honest debt, of which his distributive share, if it were paid by an assessment, might be less
than five cents.
No opposing counsel.

Dec. 1869.]

JONES v. BOLLES.

369

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice. BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court, as follows:
We have examined the proofs in the cause and find them
to be very full and convincing against the appellant, and
are satisfied with the decree of the Circuit Court, unless the
same be invalid for some jurisdictional or technical reason.
It is objected that a court of equity has no jurisdiction of
the case because the law affords a complete remedy in damages. This objection is groundless. Equity has always had
jurisdiction of fraud, misrepresentation, and concealment;
and it does not depend on discovery. But in this case a
court of law could not give adequate relief. The agreement
complained of is perpetual in its nature, and the only effectual relief against it, where the keeping of it on foot is a
fraud against parties, is the annulment of it. This cannot
be decreed by a court of law, but can by a court of equity.
It is next objected that there is a misjoinder of defendants
by reason of making the mining company a party. But the
company is directly interested, and though no relief is prayed
against it, but rather in its ftvor, it is eminently proper that
it should be made a party, complainant or defendant. It
could not be made complainant against its will, and, besides,
its own agents joined in the fraudulent representations that
were made. As a separate and independent personality,
therefore, distinct from the stockholder interest, there was
propriety in making it a party defendant.
It is also objected that the appellee, Bolles, does not distinctly state or prove the amount of his interest in the com-

pany. The bill expressly states that the appellee purchased
on his own account and in trust for other parties a large
number of shares, and paid therefor upwards of $25,000;
and then afterwards states that the appellant threatened to
bring an action against the company to enforce his pretended
claim for rents and purchase-money, whereby the stock of the
company, which the appellee alleges he purchased in good
faith, and which he still held, was liable to become greatly
depreciated in value. This is surely an allegation of a large
interest, and the statement is nowhere denied in the answer.
VOL. IX.

24

370

MEPIHAMS

v. BIBSSEL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The appellant avers only his ignorance on the subject. But
the allegation is fully corroborated by the proof, at least so
far forth as relates to the purchase 6f stock by the appellee.
No question was made on the examination as to his still
holding the stock.
We do not perceive any legal grounds of objection to the
decree, and it is therefore
AFPIRMED.

MEPHAMS V. BimsSPL.
1. Compensation to a person who had acted for four months (from 16th
March to 26th July), both as captain and as one of two pilots on a Missouri steamer, left at $900 per month, at which sum the Circuit Court
had fixed it; the evidence, which though not so full as it ought to have
been, showing that pilots' wages were at the time very high, that the
person had performed his duty in both capacities well, and that the
owners had charged his services against the government (which had
impressed the vessel during twenty-six days of the time) at the rate of
$1000 per month.
2. A master not held liable for injury to flour, apparently arising from a
bad stowage; the same having occurred from a necessity to unload,
and reload, in order to get across a bar in the river ; the testimony
showing that the captain was not blamable, and there having been
some reason to believe that the injury arose from causes inherent in the
flour itself.

TIis was an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court for the District of Missouri, in which one Bicssel, on the one side, had filed a libel in personam against M.
& W. Mepham, owners of the steamer Iron City, for wages
as master and pilot; and in which they, on the other, sought
to set off against the claim for services, at whatever sum
these might be estimated, a demand that they made against
Biessel for injury to certain flour, which on crossing a bar in
the river (in order to lighten the vessel, and so get over the
bar), it had been necessary to put ashore, and afterwards
when the vessel had got over, with the rest of the cargo (that
being unloaded and put ashore below the bar), to come back

