SWAIN

V. SEAMENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

so. The government is not bound to furnish either the originals or certified copies to suitors with whom it is contending, unless "Upon demand at the proper office, and tender of
the lawful fees.
For this and for the other errors mentioned the judgment
must be
REVERSED, AND A VENIRE FACIAS DE NOVO IS ORDERED.

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

1. A contract to build, on a lot sold upon mortgage, a mill fifty feet wide by
one hundred and fifty long, is not, as a proposition of law, substantially
comp!ied with by building one that is seventy-eight feet wide by a hundred long, even thougs the purpose of the contract was to give the
vendor security for the purchase-money of the lot, and though the mill
of the latter dimensions have cost more and be better adapted to the purposes intended than such a one as was contracted for.
2. But if the vendor, having made an agreement that upon a mill of the
former dimensions being built on the lot sold, he will accept policies of
insurance on it for the amount of another mortgage collateral to one
given on the property sold, and he does accept such policies, he cannot
decline to enter satisfaction on such other mortgage because the mill was
not of the dimensions contracted for. He waives by such acceptance of
the policies all right to object to the variation in the construction.
3. Where a person tacitly encourages an act to be done, he cannot afterwards
exercise his legal right in opposition to such consent, if his conduct or
acts of encouragement induced the other party to change his position,
so that he will be pecuniarily prejudiced by the assertion of such adversary claim.
4. The statute of frauds cannot be set up as a defence to the performance of
one formal item of an agreement, where the contract has been fully performed by the party asking such performance, and, except as to such
remaining formal item, by the other party also.

from the Circuit Court for Wisconsin, in which
court Seamens and others filed a bill against Swain, praying
that a mortgage executed to him, Swain, by Medbery and
wife, on certain lots, of which he, Seamens, and the others
were now owners, in Wisconsin, might be cancelled.
It appeared that in 1855, Swain sold to Medbery and
APPEAL

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

Statement of the case.

one Aldrich real estate in Michigan for $52,400, of which
$10,000 was paid in cash, and the balance, $42,400, secured,
by a mortgage on the lands, payable in instalments at different times; and that on this Michigan land, fbundations
had been made in the previous autumn, by driving piles for
the erection of a saw-mill fifty by one hundred and fifty feet
in size; that Medbery was then the owner of certain lots in
Wisconsin; and that on the same day and in pursuance of
articles of agreement preceding the sale, to give additional
security to the extent of $6666.66, lie and his wife executed
to Swain a mortgage on these lots as additional security.
On the Wisconsin mortgage, Swain, on the same day that
it was given, indorsed the following stipulation, which gave
rise to this suit:
"It is hereby agreed, that if within two years from this date
the large saw-mill, fifty by one hundred and fifty feet in size, shall
be properly built and completed, upon the foundation commenced last
fall, by driving piles, to accept in place of the within mortgage,
security in proper fire insurance policy, or policies, on said large
saw-mill, and thereupon to discharge the within mortgage."
The stipulation above made was in pursuance of a contract
made by the purchasers in the previous articles of agreement, to keep the buildings erected, and the large saw-mill
to be erected, upon the premises, insured in some safely reputed fire insurance company or companies against fire, and
that they should assign the policy or policies to Swain, and
that in default thereof it should be lawful for him, Swain, to
effect the insurance himself, and that the premiums and the
costs and charges of his doing so, should be a lien on the
mortgaged premises.
THE BILL alleged that subsequently to the execution of the
agreement indorsed by Swain on the mortgage, and within
the two years, there was built and completed upon the
Michigan lands, and upon the foundation referred to in the
said agreement, a large saw-mill, not of 50 by 150 feet, but
of 78 by 100; this mill, however, being larger and of greater
value and better adapted to the purposes intended than one of the

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

dimensions originally contemplated; and that the said mill, as
.built and completed, was assented to and accepted by Swain as
a compliance with the said written agreement indorsed on the
Wisconsin mortgage; that in May, 1856, Medbery and Aldrich caused the new saw-mill to be insured in different companies named, to the extent of $6000; and that these policies of insurance were duly transferred and delivered to
Swain, and accepted and assented to by him as a compliance with
the agreement, and that he had them in possession; that in
October, 1857, Swain caused the new mill to be further insured for one year in the name of Medbery & Aldrich, for
his own use and benefit; that in September, 1858, he again
caused the new saw-mill and other buildings on the premises
to be again insured for one year in the name of Medbery
& Aldrich, but for his own security, and paid out for premium $210; that all these insurances mentioned were obtained at the request of Swain, with the consent of Medbery
& Aldrich, and upon the understanding that they should
reimburse him the premiums; that in November, 1858, Swain
and Medbery & Aldrich accounted respecting the amount
due upon the mortgage, and that Medbery & Aldrich then
paid him $15,236.06, inwhich sum was included, as paid by
Swain during 1857 and 1858 for premiums on the new sawmill and other property mentioned in the mortgage, the sum
of $446.50, and interest.
That " during the building and erection of the said large
saw-mill upon the premises referred to in the written agree.ment aforesaid by said Medbery & Aldrich, the said defendant, Swain, was present at different times, and was informed by said Medbery & Aldrich, or one of them, of the
intended or the then variation in the dimensions of said
saw-mill from 50 by 150 feet, as specified in said written
agreement, and that the said mill, as was then being built
or was then completed, would be of greater value and better
adapted for the uses and purposes intended than it would he
if built of said dimensions as specified in said written agreement, and that the said defendant was then and there asked
by said Medbery & Aldrich, or one of them, to consent to

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

Statement of the case.

such alteration, and accept the mill as then being built, and
since completed, in lieu of the one mentioned in said written
agreement, and that the said defendant did then and there
agree to accept, and did accept the said mill so being built, and
afterwards completed, in lieu of the one mentioned in said
written agreement, and as a compliance on the part of said
Medbery & Aldrich with the said written agreement on his
or their part."
The mortgage on the Michigan property not being paid,
Swain foreclosed it, and on a decree, finding $22,464 due,
sold and purchased the premises for $19,600.
Tim ANSWER denied that Medbery & Aldrich completed
the mill substantially according to'the agreement; denied
that Swain consented to or acquiesced in the departure from
the plan for constructing the mill; and, admitting that Swain
did accept policies of insurance upon the mill which was
built, denied that he did so in pursuance of the agreement,
or that he accepted the policies as a compliance on the part
of Medbery & Aldrich.
The statute of frauds of Wisconsin, it may be necessary
here to state, enacts,* that " no estate, or interest in lands,...
nor any power over or concerning lands, or in any manner
relating thereto, shall be created or surrendered, . . . unless
by deed or conveyance in writing, &c. ;" and that "the term
lands," shall be construed as coextensive in meaning with
" lands, tenements, and hereditaments;" and the terms "estate and interest in lands," to embrace every estate and interest, freehold and chattel, legal and equitable, present and
future, veste'd and contingent in lands as above defined.
The right to have the cancellation prayed for, depended
therefore upon the fiollowing questions:
1. Was the mill constructed in substantial conformity
with the agreement ?
2. If constructed differently, did Swain consent to or acquiesce in the departure from the original plan; or
VOL. IX.

Code of 1858, pp. 618, 615.
17

SWAIN

V.

SEAMENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Arguments.

3. Did Swain, after its construction, accept policies on the
mill in pursuance of the agreement?
If any one of these questions were answered in the affirmative, then, obviously the mortgage was to be cancelled.
4. Unless, indeed, there was something in the statute of
frauds, as above quoted, which interfered with such a conclusion.
The second and third questions were obviously questions
of pure fact, and the court below, which decreed the cancellation, considered, as this court (on appeal from that decree)
also considered, that the evidence made it clear, on direct
proofs, that Swain had in fact acquiesced in the departure
in the building of the mill, and moreover that after its construction he had accepted policies, by this means also waiving
any objection to such variation.
On the two points of law it was contended by Mr. J. A.
.Howard,for the appellant:
1. That the contract was clear and specific to properly
build and complete a mill of a fixed, intelligible, and practicable size; and that this being so the court was bound to hold
the parties to it; and so bound whether the mill really built
was of greater value or of less than the one contracted to be
built, the creditor having a right to stipulate fbr just such a
mill as le pleased.
2. That the agreement to modify the stipulation as to the
dimensions of the mill was an agreement which did, in truth,
provide for the " surrender" of one "estate or interest in
lands" and for the " creation" of another, and was therefore
void within the Wisconsin statute of frauds.
Mr.A. H. Carpenter, contra:
1. What was the spirit of the agreement? Swain was not
contracting for a mill which he was to use. He had sold the
land. What lie had in view was security, and security alone.
Precise dimensions were of no consequence to him, value
was everything; because upon value depended his security,
which was the subject of the agreement. The literal re-

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

Argument for the appellee.

quirements of the agreement would have been satisfied by
the construction of a mill of any value, or of no value, provided it were 50 by 150 feet, for this is the only specification
in the agreement in regard to the mill. This, however,
would not have satisfied the spirit of the agreement. But
if a worthless mill, 50 by 150 feet, would not have done this,
then a mill of any dimensions, but of value sufficient to support an insurance equal to $6066.66, does do it; does satisfy
this spirit. In other words, the true spirit of the contract,
so far as regards Swain, was value, not form; and, if the
mill actually constructed was of greater value than one constructed 50 by 150 feet would have been, and it could be insured to the amount of $6666.66, then such mill satisfied the
agreement in its true spirit and according to the intention
of the parties. But the point is not important. We. do not
urge it. The evidence, which the court will see absolutely
demands affirmative answers to the second and third questions, renders any discussion of this first one useless. If
Swain accepted the mill either by words, or by silence as
expressive as words, or by receiving policies upon it, there
is an end of the case.
As to the Statte of frauds, no question arises under it. The
point seems to be faintly urged. A variation in an agreement
as to the size of a saw-mill, is not a surrender of or a creation of an interest in land. If it were, then without insisting on what cases assert, that a written or sealed instrument,
even when within the statute, may be varied as to the time or
manner of its performance, or may be waived altogether by
a subsequent parol agreement, the conclusive answer here
is, that the contract was fully executed on the side of both
parties; and that Swain, after standing by and witnessing
the completion of the mill with its actual dimensions, and
agreeing to it, is equitably estopped from objecting to cancel
the mortgage upon the ground of change in the plan. The
doctrine that where a person encourages an act to be done,
or in any way accepts it when done, he cannot afterwards
exercise his legal right in opposition to such consent, is perfectly settled, and is applied in all cases where a party has

SWAIN V.

SNAMENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Case restated in the opinion.

by word or act given others reason to believe that if he had
a right, he intended to waive it, and where such others would
be prejudiced by his asserting his right. Authorities need
not be cited for this horn-book law.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Subsequent to the removal of the case from the State court
to the Circuit Court a new bill of complaint was filed by the
consent of the respondent, sothat it is not necessary to refer
to the proceedings in the suit before the petition for the removal was granted.
Swain, the appellant and respondent, owned certain real
estate situated in the State of Michigan, and on the fourteenth of April, 1855, he sold the same to John W. Medbery
and James F. Aldrich for the consideration of fifty-two thousand dollars, as appears by the pleadings.
Pursuant to the terms of the sale the purchasers paid ten
thousand dollars in cash when the deed was executed, and
gave back a mortgage on the same real estate to secure the
balance of the purchase-money, which was payable in instalments at different times. Medbery at that time was the
owner of an undivided third part of certain -lots situated in
Milwaukee, in the State of Wisconsin, together with a flouring-mill erected thereon, called the Empire Mill, and be and
his wife, on the same day and as a part of the same transaction, gave a mortgage of the same lots and mill to the appellant as additional security for the balance remaining unpaid
of the purchase'-money of the first-mentioned real estate.
Prior.to the purchase and sale of the Michigan real estate
the foundation for a saw-mill, fifty feet by one hundred and
fifty feet, to be erected on the premises, had been commenced,
and the mortgagee, at the time the second mortgage was executed as additional security, stipulated and agreed with the
mortgagors therein that if the mortgagors in the first mortgage built and completed the saw-mill there described in a
proper manner upon the foundation so commenced, within
two years from that date, he would accept as security in the
place of that mortgage proper fire insurance policies on said

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V. SEAMENS.
Case restated in the opinion.

saw-mill, and would thereupon cancel and discharge the said
second mortgage. Reference is made to the stipulation for
its exact phraseology, as more fully set forth in the record,
and it will be seen that it was duly executed under the hand
and seal of the appellant, and was indorsed at large on the
second mortgage which was given as additional security.
Substantial compliance on the part of the mortgagors in
the first mortgage with all the conditions of that agreement,
and within the time therein specified, is set up by the appellees and complainants; and they also allege that the mortgagors in the second mortgage subsequently sold and conveyed, by deed of warranty, all their interest in and to the
said lots and mill, and that they, the complainants, afterwards became the purchasers of the same lots and mill; and
they allege that at the time the suit was commenced they
were the owners of the same in fee, as alleged in the bill of
complaint. They do not claim that the mill built and completed, as aforesaid, was of the precise dimensions mentioned
in the agreement, but they allege that it was of larger dimensions and of greater value, and that it was better adapted
to the purposes to be accomplished; and they aver that the
mill as built and completed was recognized and accepted by
the appellant as a compliance with that agreement.
Based on these and other allegations the prayer of the bill
of complaint is that the mortgage of the lots and mill, called
the second mortgage for the purpose of identification, may
be ordered and decreed to be cancelled and discharged, and
that the complainants may have such other and further relief
as the nature of the case shall require.
I. Special reference to the evidences of title exhibited by
the complainants is unnecessary, as the parties before the
hearing in the Circuit Court entered into a written stipulation that the complainants at the time the bill of complaint
was filed were the owners in fee of the lots in question and of
the flouring-mill located on the premises. Possessed of the
titleto the lots and mill as previously held by the mortgagors, the claim of the complainants is that the mortgage
thereon held by the appellant should be cancelled and dis-

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

[Sup. Ct,.

Case'restated in the opinion.

charged, because, as they insist, the conditions of the stipulation and agreement indorsed on the same, providing for
that result, have all been fulfilled.
Such is the claim of the complainants, but the respondent
denies that proposition and every element of it, and he contends that the complainants have no claim to any relief, because he insists that the mortgagors in the first mortgage
never fulfilled any of the conditions specified in that stipulation and agreement; that they never built and completed
the saw-mill therein described; and he expressly denies that
they ever procured the, policies of insurance, as alleged, or
that he ever accepted the mill which they did build on the
premises as a compliance with that stipulation and agreement.
Both parties were fully heard in the Circuit Court, and a
decree was entered for the complainants cancelling and discharging the mortgage, and the respondents appealed to this
court.
II. Relief cannot be decreed to the complainants on the
ground that the mortgagors in the principal mortgage built
and completed a saw-mill on the premises embraced in that
mortgage, of the dimensions specified in the written stipulation and agreement which is indorsed on the second mortgage, as the bill of complaint concedes that they did not, in
terms, comply with that condition, and the complainants do
not claim in argument that the saw-mill which those parties
built thereon was of that form or of those dimensions. Strict
compliance, therefore, with the conditions of the stipulation
cannot be maintained, as the proposition finds no support
either in the pleadings or proofs, but is contradicted by both
in every part of the record.
Proof of strict performance failing, the next proposition
of the complainants is that the saw-mill which those mortgagors did build constitutes a substantial compliance with the
conditions of that stipulation, but it is not possible to decide
as a conclusion of law that a saw-mill seventy-eight feet in
width by one hundred feet in length is a substantial compliance with an agreement which required that the saw-mill to

:Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V. SEAMENS.
Case restated in the opinion.

be constructed should be of the dimensions described in that
instrument, even though it be shown that it cost more and
was of greater value and better adapted to the purposes to
be accomplished, as the appellant having stipulated that the
saw-mill to be built should be fifty feet in width by one hundred and fifty feet in length, had a right to stand upon the
contract and to insist that it should be fulfilled according to
its terms.
Substantial performance, it is true, is all that is required
to satisfy any such agreement, and it may also be conceded
that in the adjudication of controversies growing out of
building contracts slight differences in the dimensions between the building constructed and the terms of the contract
may, under many circumstances, be overcome by a reasonable application of that rule, but the differences in the case
before the court are far too great to fall within that principle, as the effect would be to make a new contract and
substitute it in the place of the stipulation executed by the
parties.
III. Suppose neither of those propositions can be sustained,
still the complainants contend that the decree of the Circuit
Court should be affirmed, because they insist that the appellant acquiesced in the departure from the plan and dimensions as specified in the written instrument, and that he expressly accepted the said mill which those parties built and
completed as a compliance with that stipulation.
Considerable conflict exists in the proofs upon that subject,
and in view of that fact it becomes necessary to examine
with some care the circumstances attending the transaction
as bearing upon the probabilities of the case. Duplicate
agreements were executed between the parties to the beforementioned deed of conveyance for the purchase and sale of
the lands therein described six months befbre the deed of
the same and the mortgage back, as aforesaid, were signed
and delivered, by which the appellant agreed to sell, and the
grantees in the deed and the mortgagors in the mortgage
back agreed to purchase, those tracts of land, with certain
exceptions, which are unimportant in this investigation, and

SWAIN

V.

SEAMENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Case restated in the opinion.

also with certain reservations, of which two only need be
noticed :
1. Ie reserved the house where he resided and the premises connected therewith for his benefit for one year from
the date of the agreement.
- 2. Also the use and occupancy of the shop and fixtures
connected with the same then in the possession of his brother,
a deaf-mute, together with the use of the water "as now
used, or in a similar way," so long as the said brother
chooses to occupy the same, "to be free of rent, let, or unnecessary hindrance, otherwise than if in the way of other
important improvements it may be removed" sufficiently to
be out of the way, "and where he can have the same use
and privileges as before."
By the terms of the agreement as amended the purchasers
were to pay ten thousand dollars in cash, and they were to
give their bond for forty-two thousand dollars for the balance
of the purchase-money, together with a mortgage back of
the whole real estate purchased to secure the payments, and
they also covenanted to give "good and satisfactory security
upon other property" for the sum of six thousand six hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds dollars. They also agreed
to keep an insurance in some safe insurance company upon
the insurable property on the premises, to the amount of
one-third of its value, for the benefit and security of the
mortgagee. No provision was made for any insurance upon
the "other property" to be conveyed to the appellant as additional security, but when the mortgage back was executed,
six months later, it was therein stipulated that the mortgagors should "well and truly keep the buildings erected,
and the large saw-mill to be erected, upon the premises,"
insured in some safely reputed fire insurance company or
companies against loss by fire, and that they should assign
the said policy or policies to the appellant or his assigns;
and it contained the further stipulation that in default
thereof it should be lawful for the appellant or his assigns
to effect the said insurance, and that the premiums paid for
effecting the same and the costs and charges should be a lien
on the said mortgaged premises.

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN

V.

SEAMENS.

Opinion of the court.

Evidently the deed of conveyance and the two mortgages,
together with the stipulation indorsed on the second mortgage, must be construed together, as they constitute parts
of the same transaction; and reference may also be made to
the written agreement for the purchase and sale of the real
estate embraced in the deed, as that agreement remained in
force when the other instruments were drafted and until the
transaction was finally closed.
Security it is stipulated shall be accepted "in proper fire
insurance policy or policies on said large saw-mill in place
of the within mortgage," but the amount of the insurance
to be procured as the substitute for the mortgage security is
not specified, and without reference to the instrument which
provided for the sale and purchase of the real estate included
in the deed of conveyance it would be difficult if not impossible to define that amount, but when the several instruments relating to the transaction are considered together all
ambiguity at once disappears.
Viewed in the light of those suggestions the intention of
the parties appears to be plain, as it is quite evident that the
second mortgage constitutes the "security upon other property" for the amount which the purchasers of the real estate
agreed to give to the appellant as the seller thereof in addition to the mortgage back of the premises included in the
deed of conveyance.
IV. Two conditions precedent are annexed to the supposed right of the mortgagors in the second mortgage to
demand that the mortgage should be cancelled and discharged, and unless it is shown that they were waived or
modified by mutual consent they must both be fulfilled or
the appellant must prevail: (1.) That the large saw-mill,
"fifty by one hundred and fifty feet in size," was properly
built and completed upon the foundation previously commenced, within two years from the date of the stipulation
indorsed on the second mortgage; (2.) That proper fire
insurance policies on said saw-mill to the amount of six
thousand six hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds dollars
were procured for the benefit of the appellant, in one or the

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

other of the two modes provided in the instrument of mortgage.
Undoubtedly the obligation to procure the 'policies rested
on the mortgagors, but authority to procure them in case of
the default of the mortgagors was vested in the appellant,
and if he exercised that authority and actually procured the
policies to that amount as security for their indebtedness he
cannot set up the non-performance of that condition as an
answer to this suit. .They might procure the policies, or if
they did not he might procure them, and in that event the
premiums paid and the costs and charges incurred were
made a lien on the mortgaged lands, and if he exercised the
privilege conferred and procured the policies he is bound by
his own act.
1. Compliance with the first condition is not shown, as
the mill actually built is seventy-eight feet in width by one
hundred feet in length, and not one hundred and fifty feet
in length as described in the written stipulation, and the
decree therefore must be reversed unless it satisfactorily
appears that the appellant acquiesced in the change made in
the plan and dimensions of the mill or accepted it after it
was completed, as contended by the complainants.
Constructed as the mill was of different dimensions from
the plan specified in the stipulation, it could not be erected
throughout upon the foundation previously commenced, but
it appears that it was erected on the same site, and that it is
connected with the same water-power, and that no greater
alterations were made in the foundation previously commenced than the change in the plan and dimensions of the
mill required; and the proofs show to the entire satisfaction
of the court that the mill as constructed cost nearly twice as
much as it would if the plan indicated in the stipulation had
been followed, and that it is of greater value, and that in
view of the site and surrounding circumstances, it is much
better adapted to the purposes to be accomplished.
Intended for three gangs of saws with other machinery
incident to such a saw-mill of modern construction, it seems
reasonable to suppose that the increase in the width of the

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V. SEAMENS.
Opinion of the court.

mill, as compared with the dimensions given in the stipulation, would much more than compensate for the diminution
in the length of the structure, as the length is still sufficient,
and the effect of the alteration is to give more space where
it is most needed.
Even the answer alleges that the second mortgage was
given as a performance of the agreement to furnish additional security, and the appellant admits that he agreed to
accept the policies of insurance on the saw-mill in the place
of the mortgage, provided the mill was built of the size
specified in the stipulation and on the foundation commenced before the agreement for the sale and purchase of
the real estate was executed, but he utterly denies that he
acquiesced in the change made in the plan and dimensions
of the mill, or that he ever accepted or agreed to accept the
mill as built and completed. Three witnesses, however,
testify to the contrary, and a fourth testifies that the appellant was two or three times at that place and once in the
mill "during the building of the mill," and that he never
made any oljections to him or in his presence as to the
change in the dimensions of the mill. Two of these witnesses are the moi'tgagors in the first mortgage, who built
and completed the saw-mill; the third was a partner with
them in the lumber business, and the fourth is the millwright who superintended the construction of the saw-mill
and put in the machinery, and in the judgment of the court
they are entitled to credit. They speak of his presence at
the mill during the progress of the work and after the mill
was completed, and the first three give the details of the
conversation they had with him, showing to a demonstration that, if they are to be believed, the appellant not only
acquiesced in the change in the plan as proposed, but that
he in terms accepted the saw-mill erected on the premises
as built and completed.
Opposed to the statements of those witnesses is the negative averment of the answer and the positive denial of the
appellant that any such interviews ever took place, or that
he ever gave utterance to any such sentiments, but it is a

SWAIN V. SEAMENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

sufficient response to those denials of the appellant to say
that his testimony is not of a character to discredit the
proofs introduced by the complainants. Attempt is also
made to contradict the complainants' witnesses as to the
time when they say they saw the appellant at the saw-mill
or in that vicinity, but the error, if it be one, is not sufficient
to discredit the witnesses, as it is quite immaterial whether
the interview was at the time stated or a week or two or
even a month earlier. Other considerations, such as the
necessity for the removal of the shop of the deaf-mute
brother, are also invoked as tending to show the improbability that the appellant should have assented to the alteration in the plan of the mill, but it is unnecessary to enter
into the details, as the court is of the opinion that the allegations of the bill of complaint in that behalf are fully proved
by the direct proofs.
Next objection of the appellant is that the agreement to
accept the mill as built and completed, even if made as supposed, was void as within the statute of frauds of that State,
because it was not in writing; but it becomes necessary
before considering that question to determine whether the
second condition specified in the stipulation was fulfilled so
that the mortgagors in the second mortgage, or those claiming under them, have the right, if the agreement to accept
the saw-mill as built and completed is operative, to demand
that the second mortgage shall be cancelled and discharged.
2. Whether the inortgagors in the principal mortgage kept
the insurable property included in that mortgage insured or
not is not a question in this case, nor is it a question at this
time whether they kept the saw-mill insured as agreed in
that instrument, but the question to be decided is whether
the mortgagors, within two years from the date of the stipulation, procured for the benefit of the mortgagee proper
fire insurance policies thereon to the requisite amount, or
whether the mortgagee within that period procured the
same for his own benefit, as required or permitted in the
second condition of that stipulation, when construed in connection with the provision upon the subject contained in the

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

Opinion of the court.

principal mortgage. Proper fire insurance policies might
be procured for the purpose, as before explained, by the
mortgagors or by the mortgagee, and inasmuch as the premiunis paid and the costs and charges incurred were, in the
latter event, to be added to and considered a part of the
debt secured by mortgage, it cannot make any difference
whether they were actually obtained by the one or the other
of those parties. Such being the rule to be applied, the
question presented for decision is purely one of fact depending upon the proofs in the case, the results of which, as they
appear to the court, will be briefly stated.
Three policies of insurance on the saw-mill were procured,
in the year 1856, by the mortgagors for the benefit of the
mortgagee, to wit: two thousand dollars in the .-Etna Insurance Company, two thousand dollars in the Washington
Union Insurance Company, and two thousand dollars in the
Jackson Mutual Insurance Company; and the proofs show
that the policies were delivered to the appellant, and that he
accepted them without objection. Added together, the sum
is a fraction less than the required amount, but the policies
were accepted without objection, and none is now made on
that account.
Policies on the saw-mill were obtained, the succeeding
year, by the appellant, for the same amount, to wit: fifteen
hundred dollars in the Phcenix Insurance Company, three
thousand dollars in the Washington Union Insurance Company, and fifteen hundred dollars in the X4tna Insurance
Company; and the proofs show that the premiums which he
paid for the same were added to the mortgage debt, and
were ultimately adjusted by the mortgagors.
Insurance on the saw-mill for the year 1858 was also obtained by the appellant for the same amount, and the exhibits
in the record show that the money he paid for the premiums
was repaid to him by the mortgagors. They also paid him
at the same time fourteen thousand six hundred and seventythree dollars and forty-three cents, which was indorsed on
the bond given for the balance of the purchase-money, and
which was secured by the mortgage of the same real estate.

SWAIN V.

SEAMENg.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

V. All of these policies, however, were for the term of
one year, and the next objection is that they cannot be regarded as fulfilling the second condition of the stipulation on
that account, as they would expire before some of the instalments of the bond fell due; but the objection is not entitled
to weight for several reasons: (1.) Fire policies are usually
issued for one year, and there is nothing in the stipulation to
justify the conclusion that the policies were to be in any other
than the usual form. (2.) When the first three were obtained
they were accepted by the appellant without objection. (3.)
He asked and obtained leave of the mortgagors to procure
the future policies, and when he came to exercise that privilege he obtained them in the same form. (4.) Because,
having been intrusted, at his own request, with the business
of procuring the requisite insurance, it was his own fault if
the business was neglected or was not properly transacted.
(5.) Ile cannot impute fault to the mortgagors, as they paid
on the mortgage a sum nearly equal to the anticipated cost
of the saw-mill, especially as they had consented to leave the
business of insurance to him, and as he was expressly authorized to add the premiums to the mortgage debt, and as all
sums paid for that purpose were declared to be a lien on the
mortgaged lands. (6.) If he desired that the insurance should
be continued, and did not wish to transact the business, he
should have given notice to the mortgagors; but the probability is that he felt less interest in the subject on account
of the large payment which had been made on the mortgage
debt.
VI. 1. Although the fee of the mortgaged premises remains in the mortgagor, under the laws of that State, till
after foreclosure and sale, still no doubt is entertained that
the stipulation to accept proper fire insurance policies on
the saw-mill in the place of the mortgage was an agreement
providing for the surrender of an " estate or interest in
lands," and, therefore, was an agreement within the statute
of frauds of that State.*
* Revised Stat., chap. 108,
Russell v. Ely, 2 Black, 578.

6, p. 615; Wood v. Trask, 7 Wisconsin, 572;

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

Opinion of the court.

Nothing is left for construction, as the subsequent act
provides that the term " l ands" shall be construed as coextensive in meaning with lands, tenements, and hereditaruents, and that the terms "estate and interest in lands"
shall be construed to embrace every estate and interest, freehold and chattel, legal and equitable, present and future,
vested and contingent.*
But the stipulation in this case to accept the policies of
insurance on the saw-mill as security in the place of the
second mortgage, and thereupon to cancel and discharge
that instrument, is in writing, and having been executed as
a part of the bargain of purchase and sale of the real estate,
it rests upon a sufficient consideration, and is valid and binding. Argument upon that topic is unnecessary, as it is too
plain for contention; but the suggestion which the appellant
intends to make is that the agreement subsequently made
to modifyr the stipulation as to the dimensions of the mill is
within the statute of frauds of that State, and null and void.
Views of the complainants are that an agreement, though in
writing and under seal, may in all cases be varied as to time
or manner of its performance, or may be waived altogether
by a subsequent oral agreement; but the court is of a different opinion, if the agreement to be modified is within the
statute of frauds.
2. Numerous authorities sanction the principle advanced
by the complainants in cases not within the statute of frauds,
and which fall within the general rules of the common law,
and in such cases it is held that the parties to an agreement,
though it is in writing, may, at any time before the breach
of it, by a new contract not in writing, modify, waive, dissolve, or annul the former agreement, if no part of it was
within the statute of frauds.t
Reported cases may also be found where that rule is proRevised Stat., chap. 108,

6, p. 615; Stevens v. Cooper, 1 Johnson's

Chancery, 425; Hunt v. Maynard, 6 Pickering, 489; Browne on Frauds
(2d od.), 430.
t Goss v. Nugent, 5 Barnewall & Adolphus, 64; Harvey v. Grabham,
5 Adolphus & Ellis, 73; Emerson v. Slater, 22 Howard, 42; Brown on
Frauds (2d ed.), 409.

SWAIN V. SEAMENS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mulgated without any qualification; but the better opinion
is, that a written contract falling within the statute of frauds
cannot be varied by any subsequent agreement of the parties,
unless such new agreement is also in writing. Express decision in the case of Marshall v. Lynn,* is that the terms of
a contract for the sale of goods falling within the operation
of the statute of frauds cannot be varied or altered by parol;
that where a contract for the bargain and sale of goods is
made, stating a time for the delivery of them, an agreement
to substitute another day for that purpose must, in order to
be valid, be in writing.t
Suggestion may be made that all the cases were cases at
law; but the same rule prevails in equity, as appears by the
highest authority.1
Regarded, therefore, as a' mere executory agreement to
accept the mill when built and completed, it is clear that the
statute of frauds would be a good defence to a suit for the
breach of it; but it cannot be viewed in that light, as it was
fully executed on the part of the mortgagors, and was in
fact fully executed on the part of the appellant.
3. Ie is not sued for a breach of the agreement to accept
the mill as built and completed; but the suit is to compel
him to cancel and discharge the mortgage as agreed in the
written stipulation. Called upon to plead to the bill of complaint, he sets up the defence that the dimensions of the mill
vary from those specified in the stipulation, to which the
complainants reply that he acquiesced in the change at the
time the work was done, and that he accepted the mill as
built and completed, and they prove the allegations to the
* 6 Meeson & Welsby, 109.
- Clarke v. Russel, 3 Dallas, 415; Emerson v. Slater, 22 Howard, 42;
Goss v. Nugent, 6 Barnewall & Adolphus, 58; Harvey v. Grabbam, 5
Adolphus & Ellis, 73; Stowell v. Robinson, 3 Bingham's New Cases, 928;
Stead v. Dawber, 10 Adolphus & Ellis, 57; Falmouth v Thomas, 1 Cromp-

ton & Meeson, 109; Hasbrouck v. Tappen, 16 Johnson, 200; Blood v. Goodrich, 9 Wendell, 68.
$ Enmnet v. Dewhirst, 8 English Law and Equity, 83; same case, 3 MeNaughten & G., 587; Stevens v. Cooper, 1 Johnson's Chancery, 429; Browne

on Frauds (2d ed.),

1 422.

Dec. 1869.]

SWAIN V.

SEAMENS.

Opinion of the court.

entire satisfaction of the court. They built and completed
the mill seventy-eight feet in width by one hundred feet in
length, at an expense exceeding thirty thousand dollars, and
the appellant not only accepted it when completed as a compliance with the stipulation, but lie also accepted the policies
of insurance procured on it as security in the place of the
second mortgage, and he cannot now be permitted to avoid
the true issue, nor to divest the transaction of its real character in order that he may set up the statute of frauds.
VII. 1. Even part performance is often admit ed in equity
as an answer to the statute; but it is not necessary to invoke
that principle in this case, as it is clear that the appellant
acquiesced in the changes made in the plan, and that the
mill, as built and completed, was accepted by him as a compliance with the stipulation.*
2. Estoppel is also set up by the complainants as an answer to the defence of the statute of frauds, and, in view of
the facts, the court is of the opinion that it is a complete
answer to that defence. He sold the real estate for fifty-two
thousand four hundred dollars, received in cash ten thousand
dollars, and the purchasers gave a mortgage on the same real
estate for the balance of the purchase price. They paid towards the mortgage seventeen thousand six hundred and
seventy-three dollars, exclusive of five hundred and seventysix dollars and seventy-three cents for insurance premiums
and for taxes, and erected the saw-mill at the cost of thirtytwo thousand dollars, and the record shows that the appellant foreclosed the mortgage, and, with two other persons,
became the purchaser of the entire property and improvements, subject to the mortgage, for the sum of nineteen
thousand six hundred dollars, and has a decree for the deficiency of two thousand eight hundred and sixty-four dollars and eleven cents, for whichi he proposes to foreclose the
second mortgage now under consideration.
8. Beyond doubt the mortgagors in the first mortgage, one
of whom was the principal mortgagor in the second mort1 Story Eq. Jur. (9th ed.),

j 759, 761; Browne on Frauds (2ded.),

468.
VOL. IX.

18

THE JUSTICES V. MURRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

gage, built and completed the saw-mill in the full belief,
induced by the conduct and declarations of the appellant,
that it would be accepted as a compliance with the stipulation indorsed on the second mortgage. Taken as a whole,
the proofs satisfy the court that his conduct and declarations
led them to believe that he was content with the change
made, and that he would readily acquiesce in their doings
when the mill was completed, and, if so, he cannot be heard
to allege or prove the contrary to the prejudice of their
rights.*
Where a person tacitly encourages an act to be done, he
cannot afterwards exercise his legal right in opposition to
such consent, if his conduct or acts of encouragement induced the other party to change his position, so that he will
be pecuniarily prejudiced by the assertion of such adversary
claim.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE

JUSTICES V. MURRAY.

1. The provision in the seventh amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, which declares that no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of the United States than according to
the rules of the common law, applies to the facts tried by a jury in a
cause in a State court.
2. So much of the 5th section of the act of Congress of March 3d, 1863, entitled "An act relating to habeas corpus and regulating proceedings in
certain cases," as provides for the removal of a judgment in a State
court, and in which the cause was tried by a jury, to the Circuit Court
of the United States for a retrial on the facts and law, is not in pursuance of the Constitution, and is void.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
Patrie brought a suit for an assault and battery and false
Pickard v. Sears, 6 Adolphus & Ellis, 474; Freeman v. Cooke, 2 Exchequer, 654; Foster v. Dawber, 6 Id. 854; Edwards v. Chapman, 1 Meeson
& Welsby, 231; Morris Canal Company v. Lewis, 1 Beasley, 323; Cary v.
Wheeler, 14 Wisconsin, 285.

