614

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES V. MERRILL.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

UNITED STATES V.

MERRILL.

Under the Act of July 13th, 1866, amendatory of the 4th section of the Act
of March 8d, 1865, an officer in the regular army who during the rebellion accepted a commission of colonel in the volunteer organization, is

not entitled to the three months' pay given by those acts to officers of
that grade on being honorably discharged under the terms of the act
from "military service;" he resuming his duty and rank in the regular
army, and being still in the said service.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

Mr. Talbot, for the United States; Mr. Chipman, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
Congress provided, by the fourth section of the act of the
third of March, 1865, that all officers of volunteers now in
commission, below the rank of brigadier-general, who shall
continue in the military service to the close of the war, shall
be entitled to receive, upon being mustered out of said service, three months' pay proper.*
Subsequent to the passage of that act, to wit, on the thirteenth of July, 1866, Congress passed another act upon the
same subject, in which it is enacted that the fourth section
of the prior act shall be so construed as to entitle all officers
of volunteers to the three months' pay proper provided for
therein, who were in service on the day when that act was
passed, and whose resignations were presented and accepted,
and who were mustered out at their own request, or otherwise honorably discharged from the service, after the ninth
of April of that year.t
Prior to the month of August, 1861, the appellee was an
officer in the regular army of the United States, and on the
twenty-third of that month he was commissioned as a colonel
of the second regiment of Missouri cavalry, which was a
*13

Stat. at Large, 497.

t 14 Id. 24.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. MERRILL.
Opinion of the court.

volunteer organization. He remained in such service until
the fourteenth of December, 1865, when he was honorably
discharged from the volunteer service, and resumed his duty
and rank in the regular army.
None of those facts are controverted, and the appellee, by
virtue of the premises, claimed that he was entitled to receive the sum of three hundred and thirty dollars for the
three months' pay proper as such military officer, because
he was in service oil the day when the first-named act was
passed, notwithstanding the fact that at the time he was discharged from the volunteer organization in which he was
commissioned as colonel, he resumed his duty and rank and
became entitled to his pay and emoluments as an officer in
the regular army.
Although he was never mustered out of the military service of the United States, still he claimed three months' pay
proper by virtue of his discharge from the volunteer organization, and accordingly applied to the proper officer of the
department for the payment of the amount so claimed to be
due, as provided in those acts of Congress; but the application was rejected because he was still in the military service
under existing laws.
Payment being refused by the proper officers of the department, he filed his petition in the Court of Claims, setting
forth the foregoing fitcts, and insisted that when he ceased
to be an officer of volunteers in the manner prescribed by
law he ceased to be in the military service as an officer of
such volunteer organization, and that an honorable discharge from such volunteer service as much entitled him to
the three months' pay proper as if he had been discharged
altogether from the military service of the United States.
His theory of the law is that it bestowed a gratuity upon
officers of volunteers, and that it makes no difference that
he found himself immediately transferred to another branch
of the military service by virtue of a commission in the
regular army which he held before he was commissioned as
colonel of volunteers and throughout the entire period of

616

UNITED STATES V. MERRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that service; but it is not possible to concur in that proposition, as it seems much more reasonable to suppose that the
object which Congress had in view was to provide for the
loss to which the volunteer officers, when discharged from
the military service, were exposed for the want of employment before they would be able to resume, to any considerable extent, their accustomed avocations in civil life. Most
of the officers of that class left civil occupations to engage,
for a period of uncertain duration, in the military service of
the country, and the obvious purpose of that provision was
that when they came to be discharged they should not be
left without any compensation during the period which, in
all probability, would elapse before they would be able to
establish themselves in remunerative business pursuits.
Grant that the allowance was intended as a gratuity, still
it does not follow that it was intended as double pay, or to
embrace any officer who was to remain in the regular service. Read separately from the amendatory provision the
fourth section of the first-named act describes three conditions, all of which must concur in order to establish the
right to that allowance: (1.) That the claimant was an officer
of volunteers in commission at the date of that act. (2.) That
he continued in the military service to the close of the war.
(3.) That he was honorably mustered out of the said service
prior to the application, which means unquestionably that
he was honorably mustered out of the military service of
the United States.
Continuance in the service to the close of the war was
essential under that provision; but the subsequent act provides that the applicant shall be deemed to be entitled to
the allowance if his resignation was presented and accepted,
and be was mustered out at his own request, or was otherwise honorably discharged from the service, after the month
of April of that year.
The word service, as used in that act, means, beyond question, the military service of the United States, and it is
equally clear that no such officer is entitled to that allowance unless it is shown that he was mustered out of the

Dec. 1869.]

IRVINE V. IRVINE.

617

Syllabus.

military service of the United States, or was otherwise
honorably discharged from that service subsequent to the
time specified in the amendatory act.
By the finding in the court below it appears that the
appellee was honorably discharged from the volunteer service; but the same finding shows that he, at the same time,
resumed his duty and rank in the regular army, which is
totally inconsistent with the condition prescribed in the act
of Congress, that he must have been mustered out of the
military service of the United States. He was honorably discharged from the volunteer organization, but that discharge
did not terminate his connection with the military service
of the country under his antecedent commission. On the
contrary, he became thereby entitled to the pay and emoluments due to his rank as an officer in the regular army the
moment his connection ceased with the volunteer organization.
None of the reasons which induced Congress to make the
provision under consideration exist in the case of the appellee, as he has never been out of public employment for
a moment since he accepted his commission in the regular
army, and has no occasion to desire to re-engage in business
pursuits.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded, with directions to
DISMISS THE PETITION.

IRVINE V. IRVINE.
1. When one makes a deed of land covenanting that he is the owner, and
subsequently acquires an outstanding and adverse title, his new acquisition enures to the grantee on the principle of estoppel.
2. Where a person has bought land and paid for it, the deed subsequently
made in consequence does not confer a new title on him ; but confirms
the right which he had acquired before the deed was made.
8. The acts of September 4th, 1841,
12 (5 Stat. at Large, 456); of May

29th, 1830 (4 Id. 420); and January 23d, 1832 (lb. 496), relate to pre-

