THIE Guy.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Interest will follow from the date of the decree, at the rate
allowed on judgments and decrees in Massachusetts.

THE

Guy.

1. The principles laid down in The Grapeshot (supra, 129), so far as relates
to liens upon foreign vessels for repairs, affirmed.
2. The fact that the person calling himself owner and agent of the vessel
gave acceptances for the amount charged for the repairs held not to
affect the case, the acceptor having been insolvent and unworthy of
credit, and the credit having in fact been given to the boat.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of New York.
Tall filed a libel, in the District Court at New York, against
the steamer Guy, claiming a lien on the boat for repairs made
upon her in Baltimore, Maryland, and alleged by the libel
to have been necessary to fit her for the prosecution of her
then employment, which was, in connection with several
other boats, the transportation of the government mails, and
of passengers and freight, between Norfolk, Virginia, and
Newbern, North Carolina. It was admitted that Baltimore
was not the home-port of the Guy, and indeed that she did
not belong to Maryland at all. The repairs were ordered
by one Olney, who called himself proprietor and agent of the
line, and seemed to have been the owner of the Guy; and
they were reasonably fit and necessary. There was proof
that the libellant received from Olney acceptances for the
amount of the repairs; but none that they were taken in
absolute payment. On the contrary, it appeared that the
acceptor was insolvent and unworthy of credit, and that, in
fact, the credit was given to the boat.
The boat having subsequently arrived in New York, was
arrested on this libel. One Healy now appeared as claimant,
setting up a transfer to him subsequent to the date of the
repairs made, and resisted a condeninatidn.

Dec. 1869.]

WATKINS V. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

The District Court decreed in favor of the libellant, and
the Circuit Court having affirmed the decree, the case was
brought here.
After argument by Hr. Bvarts, for the appellant, and Messrs.
W. W. Goodrich and 0. Horwitz, contra,
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the judgment of the
court, to the effect, that upon the facts established it was
apparent that the case was to be governed by the principles
settled at this term in the case of The Grapeshot,* and that
the decree of the Circuit Court having been in accordance
with those principles, must be
AFFIRMED.

WATKINS V. UNITED STATES.
1. Pleading over without reservation to a declaration adjudged good on demurrer, is a waiver of the demurrer.
2. On a suit by the United States upon a marshal's official bond, the government may properly rest in the first instance, after having introduced
evidence, in the form of duly certified transcripts of the adjustment of
his accounts by the accounting officers of the Treasury. It need not
show that the marshal had notice of the adjustment of his accounts or
of the balance found against him in the transcript.
3. In order to allow a marshal in such a suit to set off a credit, it must be
shown that the claim for credit has been legally presented to the accounting officers of the Treasury for their examination and been by
them (except in certain cases) disallowed. And to be legally presented
the claim should be presented by items, and with the proper vouchers.
THE United States brought suit in the Circuit Court for
Maryland against Watkins, late marshal of the United States,
and his sureties, on the official bond of the said marshal.
Judgment was given for the United States; and Watkins
took a writ of error.
* Supra, 129.

