Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SMITH.

95

Syllabus.

made on the ground and adopted by the company till the
24th March, 1857, which was after the confirmatory act of
that year.
This, as we have seen, confirmed all the selections made
at the time, and which included all in controversy in this
suit, in the language of the section, "so far as the same shall
remain vacant, and unappropriated, and not interfered with
by actual settlement." As the railroad company at this time,
for the reasons above stated, bad not perfected their grant
so as to have become invested with the title to any of the
sections included in the lists or selections of the swamp lands
on file in the land department, they can set up no appropriation of any of these lands under their grant, which leaves
them subject to the confirming act of 1857, according to the
very words of it.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

NOTE.

About a fortnight after the above reported case was adjudged, there was adjudged another from a different State,
and which, as respected the position of patlies, was a sort of
converse to it; and in its nature somewhat supplementary.
It is accordingly reported in immediate sequence. Froni
its correlative character, as just described, the reader will
readily understand that he must be possessed of the preceding case in order to understand this one. It was the
case of
RAILROAD COMPANY V. SMITH.
1. The act of June 10th, 1852, concerning swamp and overflowed lands,
confirmed a present vested right to such lands, though the subsequent
identification of them was a duty imposed upon the Secretary of the
Interior.
2. These lands were excepted from the subsequent railroad grants to Iowa
and Missouri.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. qIn a suit to recover lands which the plaintiff claims under one of the railroad grants, it is competent to prove by witnesses who know the lands
sued for, that they were swamp and overflowed within the meaning of
the swamp-land grant, and therefore excluded from the railroad grant.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.

The Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company brought
ejectment against Smith, in one of the county courts of Missouri, to recover possession of certain lands.
The title of the railroad company was deduced from an act of
Congress, entitled, "An act granting the right of way to the
State of Missouri, and a portion of the public lands to aid in
the construction of certain railroads in said State," approved
June 10th, 1852. This act granted to the State of Missouri, for
the purpose of making the railroad, every alternate section of
land designated by even numbers on each side of the road.
The legislature of Missouri, in September, 1852, accepted the
grant, and by statute vested the land granted in the railroad
company.
Such was the title of the plaintiff.
That of the defendant, Smith, was deduced from the same
"swamp-land grant," the act of Congress, namely, which is set
out in the statement of the last reported case, approved September 28th, 1850, by which Fremont County in that case held its
lands. But in this case the railroad interest was the actor; not
as in the last one a defending party merely, with a swamp-land
grantee in the position of assailant.
On the trial below of the present cause the defendant introduced evidence against objection tending to prove that the lands
in suit were wet and unfit for cultivation at the date of the
swamp-land act of 1850; and this was his title. No evidence
was introduced by him tending to show that the land in suit
was ever certified as swamp land by the Secretary of the Interior, or that the same was ever patented as such to the State of
Missouri. Nor was this pretended. In fact the correspondence
of the land department of the United States showed that the
secretary had no sufficient evidence to enable him to make such
certificates.
The court in which the suit was brought gave judgment for
Smith, the defendant, and the railroad company appealed to the
Supreme Court of Missouri. That court affirmed the judgment

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

of the court below, and the railroad company now brought the
case here.
Messrs. James Carr and W. P. Hall, for the plaintiff in error;
Mr. Drake, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The grants of lands by Congress to the States in aid of railroads have generally been made with reference to the lands
through which the roads were to pas*, and, as the line of the
road had to be located after the grant was made, it has been
usual in the acts making the grant, to describe them as alternate
sections of odd numbers within a certain limit on each side of
the road, when it should be located.
This, of course, left.it to be determined by the location of the
road what precise lands were granted. So far as this uncertainty in the grant was concerned, it was one which might remain
for a considerable time, but which was capable of being made
certain, and was made certain, by the location of the road. But
as Congress could not know on what lands these grants might
ultimately fall, and as the roads passed through regions where
some of the lands had been sold, some had been granted for other
purposes, and some had been reserved for special uses, though
the title remained in the United States, these statutes all contained large exceptions from the grant, as measured by the
limits on each side of the road and as determined by the odd
numbers of the sections granted.
We have had before us two casesgrowiugout of the construction
to be given to the language of these exceptions in the grant of
May 15th, 1856, to the State of Iowa. The first of these was the
case of Wolcott v. The Des Moines Company.* The other is the
case of The Railroad Company v. Fremont County, decided at
this term.t
The case before us arises under a similar grant to the State of
Missouri, with like reservations in the act, but it raises a question somewhat different from that presented by tbe other two
cases.
In the last of those cases it was determined that a proviso
which excluded from the grant "all lands heretofore reserved by
5 Wallace, 681.
VOL. IX.

f The case immediately preceding.
7

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

any act of Congress, or in any manner by competent authority,
for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal improvement,
or for any other purpose whatever," excluded the lands granted
to the States by the act of September 28th, 1850, known as the
swamp-land grant. In that case the county of Fremont, claiming under the swamp-land grant, was plaintiff, and the railroad
company, claiming under the grant to the State for railroads,
was defendant, and the main point in it related to the evidence
which might be necessary to establish the fact that the lands
claimed by plaintiff were swamp and overflowed within the
meaning of the act of 1850.
In the present case the position of the parties is reversed, the
plaintiff claiming under the act of June 10th, 1852, granting lands
to the State of Missouri for railroad purposes, and the defendant
claiming under the swamp-land grant.
In the former case it was necessary for the plaintiff, who must
succeed on the strength of her own title, to show satisfactory
evidence that the title of the United States had, under the swampland grant, become vested in Fremont County. The opinion of
the court shows how this was successfully done in that case.
In the present action it was incumbent on the railroad coinpany to show that the title of the United States had become
vested in the com pany under the grant for railroad purposes.
It is admitted that this has been done, unless the land is of
that class reserved from the grant as swamp land; for the act
under which plaintiff claims has an exception in precisely the
same terms with the act for the benefit of the Iowa railroads.
In the former case the plaintiff, claiming under the swampland grant, was bound to establish his title by such evidence as
Congress may have determined to be necessary to make the title
complete in the State, or the grantee of the State, to which the
lands were supposed to be granted, otherwise the plaintiff established no legal title. In the present case it is not necessary to
defeat the title under the railroad grant to show that all the
steps prescribed by Congress to vest a complete title in defendant, under the swamp-land grant, have been taken. It is sufficient to shoiv that this land which is now claimed under the
railroad grant, was reserved out of that grant, and this is done
whenever it is proved by appropriate testimony to have been
swamp and overflowed land, as described in the act of 1850.
In order to determine the character of the testimony which

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

will prove this, it may be useful to look at the statute which
granted these swamp lands.
The first section of the act, after declaring the inducements
to its passage, says that the whole of these swamp and overflowed lands, made thereby unfit for cultivation, and unsold, are
hereby granted to the States.
The third section, for further description, says that all legal
subdivisions, the greater part of which is wet and unfit for cultivation, shall be included as swamp lands; but when the greater
part is not of that character the whole of it shall be excluded.
Congress has here given a criterion, apparently not difficult
of application, by which to determine what was granted, to wit,
such legal subdivisions of the public lands, the greater part of
which were so far swamp and overflowed as to be too wet for
cultivation. Now, here is a present grant by Congress of certain lands to the States within which they lie, but it is by a description which requires something more than a mere reference
to their townships, ranges, and sections, to identify them as
coming within it. In this respect it is precisely like the railroad
grants, which only became c~rtain'by the location of the road.
In fact, in this regard the swamp-land grant was the more specific, for all the lands of that description were granted, and they
have remained so granted ever since, while no particular land
was described by the railroad grant, which was a float, to be
determined by the choice of the line of the road in future. No
act of Congress has ever attempted to take back this grant of
the swamp lands, or to forfeit it, or to give it to any other
grantee, or modified the description by which they were given
to the States. It was protected by positive reservation in the
grant under which plaintiff claims. Now, when a party claiming under that grant sues to recover a particular piece of land
which is excepted out of the grant by appropriate language, is
it not competent to show by parol proof that it was of the class
covered by the first grant and excepted from the second, namely,
so swampy, overflowed, and wet, as that the major part of the
tract was unfit for cultivation ?
By the second section of the act of 1850 it was made the duty
of the Secretary of the Interior to ascertain this fact, and furnish
the State with the evidence of it. Must the State lose the land,
though clearly swamp land, because that officer has neglected
to do this ? The right of the State did not depend on his action,

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

but on the act of Congress, and though the States might be embarrassed in the assertion of this right by the delay or failure
of the Secretary to ascertain and make out lists of these lands,
the right of the States to them could not be defeated by that
delay. As that officer had no satisfactory evidence under his
control to enable him to make out these lists, as is abundantly
shown by the correspondence of the land department with the
State offieers, he must, if he had attempted it, rely, as he did in
many cases, on witnesses whose personal knowledge enabled
them to report as to the character of the tracts claimed to be
swamp and overflowed. Why should not the same kind of testimony, subjected to cross-examination, be competent, when the
issue is made in a court of justice, to show that they are swamp
and overflowed, and so excluded from the grant under which
plaintiff claims, a grant which was also a gratuity?
The matter to be shown is one of observation and examination, and whether arising before the secretary, whose duty it
was primarily to decide it, or before the court, whose duty
it became because the secretary had failed to do it, this was
clearly the best evidence to'be had, and was sufficient for the
purpose.
Any other rule results in this, that because the Secretary of
the Interior has failed to discharge his duty in certifying these
lands to the States, they, therefore, pass under a grant from
which they are excepted beyond doubt; and this, when it can
be proved by testimony capable of producing the fullest conviction, that they were of the class excluded from plaintiff's
grant.
The decision of the case of the Railroad Company v. Fremont
County disposes of all the errors alleged in this case but the admission of the verbal testimony, and as we are of opinion that
the State court did not err in that, the JUDGMENT IS AFrIRMED.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, dissenting.
Unable to concur in the judgment of the court in this case,
I think it proper to state the reasons of my dissent.
Congress made provision, by the first section of the act of the
twenty-eighth of September, 1850, that swamp and overflowed
lands, "made unfit thereby for cultivation," and which remained
unsold at the passage of the act, should be granted to the States
in which the same were situated, to enable the States to con-

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

SMITH.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

struct the necessary levees and drains to reclaim the lands so
granted, and render them fit for cultivation.*
Such lands were a part of the public domain, and of course it
was necessary, before the title could vest in the States, that the
land should be surveyed and designated, as lands not made unfit
thereby for "cultivation were no more included in the first section of the act than lands sold prior to its passage.
Taken literally, the first section, it is conceded, purports to
gratt the whole of those swamp and overflowed lands, made
un'fit thereby for cultivation ; but the second section makes it
the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to make out an accurate
list and plats of the lands described as aforesaid; and the third
section provides that, in making out said list and plats, whenever the greater part of a subdivision is wet and unfit for cultivation, the whole of it shall be included in the list and plats,
which is a matter to be ascertained and determined by the Secretary of the Interior, and which, under the act of Congress,
cannot be ascertained and determined by any other tribunal.
Lands fit for cultivation, under 'those circumstances, are to be
included in the list and plats; but the corresponding provision
in the same section is, that if the greater part of a subdivision
is not of that character, that is, not swamp and overflowed
lands, made unfit thereby for cultivation, then the whole of the
subdivision shall be excluded from the list and plats.
Special power is conferred upon the Secretary of the Interior
to make out an accurate list and plats of the lands, and it is
quite clear that a jury is no more competent to ascertain and
determine whether a particular subdivision should be included,
or excluded, from the list and plats required to be made under
that section, than they would be to make the list and plats
during the trial of a case involving the question of title.
Courts and juries are not empowered to make the required
list and plats, nor can they determine what particular lands
shall be included in the list and plats before they are prepared
by the officer designated by law to perform that duty.
Support to that conclusion is derived from the subsequent
language of the same section, which makes it the duty of the
secretary, when the list and plats are prepared, to transmit the
same to the governor of the State, and to cause a patent to be
* 9

Stat. at Large, 619.

RAILROAD COMPANY

V.

SMITH.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, J., dissenting.

issued to the State for the lands. Unless the requirements were
such as is supposed, it is difficult to see how the affairs of the
land department can be administered, as the records and files
of the office would not furnish any means of determining whether
a given parcel of land belongs to the State in which it is situated or to the United States.
Evidently the title to the lands remains in the United States
until these proceedings are completed, as the same section which
makes it the duty of the secretary, when the list and plats are
prepared, to transmit them to the governor and to cause a patent
to be issued therefor, also provides that when the patent is issued
"the fee simple to said lands shall vest in the said State,
subject to the disposal of the legislature therof."
Prior to the issuing of the patent therefor the fee simple to the
lands does not vest in the State, and the lands,.prior to the date
of the patent, are not subject to the disposal of the legislature.
Strong confirmation that the construction of that act herein
adopted is correct is also derived from the subsequent legislation
of Congress upon the same Aubject. Selections of swamp and
overflowed lands were made by the States, in certain cases under
that act, before the required list and plats were made by the
secretary, and Congress, on the third of March, 1857, passed an
amendatory act to remedy the difficulty, in which it is provided
to the effect that such selections, if reported to the general land
office, should be confirmed, provided the lands selected were
vacant and unappropriated, and the selections did not interfere
with actual settlements under any existing laws of the United
States.*
Such a law was certainly unnecessary if the construction of
the original act adopted in the opinion just read is correct, as
in that view the original act vested a fee simple title in the
States without the necessity of waiting for any action on the
part of the land department; and if so, then it follows that the
States may select for themselves, and if their title is questioned
by the United States or by individuals, they may claim of right
that the matter shall be determined by jury.
'Anticipating that the decision will occasion embarrassment
to the land department, I have deemed it proper to state thus
briefly the reasons of my dissent.
11 Stat. at Large, 251.

