THE SYRACUSE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case in the opinion.

In. our opinion the tug was clearly in fault, and the courts
below, in dividing the damages, doubtless came to the conelusion that the men on board the Citizen were also to blame
for deserting their boat sooner than good seamanship under
the circumstances required. As the libellant did not appeal,
and can, therefore, only be heard in support of the decree,
we are not required to consider whether the evidence convicts the canal-boat of fault.* The appellants have no right
to complain, for in any aspect of the case they cannot escape
without paying at least half the loss.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE SYRACUSE.
A large steamer, without tows or other incumbrance, approaching near to
smaller ones with tows, under circumstances where collision is liable to
occur, is bound to move with caution. She is mistress of her course
and motions, and stands in a position of advantage over the others.
These have not full power over themselves. Seventeen miles an hour,
in such a situation, is too great a rate of speed for the larger and freer
vessel to be moving at among vessels having tows.

THIs was an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, which,
on a libel filed by the owners of the steamer Rip Van Winkle, against the steam tow-boat Syracuse, for a collision, bad
held the complaining boat itself in fault, and the tug-boat not
liable.
Messrs. McMahon and Hoar, for the appellant; Mr. Benedict, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the facts and delivered the
opinion of the court. Both will be better understood by
reference to a diagram by the reporter on the next page.
The steamer Rip Van Winkle, a freight and passenger
The William Bagaley, 5 Wallace, 412.

Dec. 1869.]

THE SYRACUSE.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

boat, left New York for Troy, heavily laden, on the evening
of the 15th of May, 1866. About 2 o'clock the next morning she reached a point in the river opposite to Brandow's
Hollow. There, three boats above were plainly in view to
her, and she was as plainly in view to them. They were all
tow-boats with barges attached, and were the Johnson, the
Arnold, and the Syracuse. The Arnold was on the east side
of the river, and going up. The Johnson was on the west

side, going down, and was as near to the flats as it was safe
for her to go. The Syracuse was on the west side, and also
descending. She had in tow, lashed to her, on the port side,
the heavy ice barge Colgate. The Roberts, a light barge,
was attached to her in like manner on the starboard side.
The speed of the Johnson was less than that of the Syracuse.
The Johnson had nine tows, attached by a hawser about
voL. ix.

43

[Sup. Ct.

THE SYRACUSE.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

four hundred and fifty feet long. The Syracuse made a
sheer and passed the hawser-tier of the Johnson, and lapped
her about fifteen feet on the east side. About this time the
Rip Van Winkle blew a long whistle as a signal that she
intended to pass them to the eastward. They blew their
whistles in response and assent. The-speed of the steamer
was seventeen miles an hour. The distance of the Syracuse
and the steamer from each other when their whistles blew
was probably about half a mile. The usual course of ascending steamers at that point, and the one which the Rip Van
Winkle proposed to pursue, was diagonally across the river
from the west to the east side. Teason was the pilot in
charge of the steamer, and we give the occurrences which
grew out of this movement as he states them. lie says:
" We passed the Johnson, and on her starboard side was the
Arnold, bound up with a tow. I went close to his hawser-tier,
and probably within fifty or seventy-five feet. The tide being
flood-tide, and the wind southeast, he was working to the windward, and the tier tailed off from him, so that I did not go as
close to the Arnold as I did to his hawser-tier. I went off from
the Arnold probably one hundred and fifty feet, may be not as
far as that, and just as I got abreast, or just before I got abreast
of the Arnold, the steamer Syracuse, bound down, on our larboard hand, altered her course before I got to the Arnold, and
came right head towards us. I didn't slow the boat nor I didn't
stop her. . . . I let her keep her regular gait. . . . I thought I
could outrun her when I saw her coming. I thought, in the

position she was, I could get by her, and I hove my wheel over
aport, and that took us hard off more to the eastward. I
thought I would let her get as far to the eastward as I could,
and did so.

Then the Syracuse hit us

. . .

on the starboard

It was the barge
side, just aft of the forward gangway.
the bluff of her
with
us
us-hit
hit
that she had alongside that
bow, right on the turn of her bow. We were heading to the
east, and she struck us right aft of the forward gangway, and
forward of the paddle-box, and after she struck us it carried
away our deck-beams, and side-house, and water-wheel, and the
like of that; that disabled our engine, and then we drifted, till
in time we drifted ashore, or we let our anchor go before we got

THE SYRACUSE,

Dec. 1869.]

Opinion of the court.

ashore, but our anchor would not hold us, and we drifted ashore;
we drifted about twenty minutes or half an hour after she struck
us before we went ashore."
This witness further states that the width of the channel
between the Arnold and the Johnson was at least five hundred feet; that there was a space between the Johnson and
the steamer for the Syracuse to pass of three hundred and
fifty feet; that the steamer had passed the Johnson and the
Arnold, and that just as she passed the latter the disaster
occurred. The length of the steamer was about two hundred and seventy-five feet. The combined speed of the
steamer and the Syracuse was over twenty miles an hour.
It was not less than half a mile in a minute and a half
Teason says:
"Further, that the Syracuse could have kept her course and
followed down the same course that the Johnson was going, and
would have given us plenty of room to have gone by. All that
was necessary for her to clear us would have been to have kept
her course. .

.

. She sheered right off-=took a very sudden

sheer right off towards us."
This witness is mainly relied upon by the libellant. Conceding his testimony to be correct it inculpates the tug, but
by no means exonerates the steamer. The channel was
narrow and crowded. The Johnson, Arnold, and Syracuse,
with their tows, made a fleet of eighteen vessels of different
kinds. Witherwax, another pilot on the steamer, says:
"We seen the river fall of lights; it looked to be all light away
across the river."
He warned Teason several times that the steamer would
approach the Syracuse. His warnings show that he was
alarmed. They produced no effect. A tug with vessels in
tow is in a very different condition from one unincumbered.
She is not mistress of her motions. She cannot advance,
recede, or turn either way at discretion. She is bound to
consult their safety as well as her own. She must see that
what clears her of danger does not put them in peril. For

THE SYRACUSE.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

many purposes they may be regarded as a part of herself.
They have the benefit of her traction and she the burden of
their inertia. The character of the fleet could not be mistaken. The attempt of the steamer, under such circumstances, to pass the other vessels, and in such close proximity
to the Syracuse, at a speed of seventeen miles an hour, was
gross and wanton recklessness. Before turning her head to
the eastward she should have slowed her engine. If the
prospect of danger darkened she should have stopped, and,
if need be, have reversed it. She had no right thus to hurl
herself like a projectile into the midst of the vessels before
her, taking the hazard of the consequences and thus imperilliug herself and them with all the lives and property on
board. "The Rule of the Road" gives no warrant for such
conduct. The maxim applies, "Sic ulere luo ul alienum non
lw las." The steamer is condemnable alike upon reason and
authority.*
The alleged fault of the Syracuse lies in the sudden sheer
to the eastward which is imputed to her. As soon as her
whistle was blown she stopped her engine, and did not put
it in motion again until after the collision occurred. This
is conclusively proven, and is not denied. It is an important
fact in her favor. That she voluntarily and unnecessarily
sheered, and put herself in the way of the steamer, as charged,
is very improbable. The fact is proven by no one but Teason. It was several times denied expressly by Witherwax
when his deposition was first taken. Ie was recalled the
next day, and then stated that he saw the sheer and supposed
it was to enable the Syracuse to pass the tow of the Johnson, and that she kept her course afterwards until she struck
the steamer. The denials in his foirmer examination detract
from the weight of this testimony. The captain and pilot
of the Syracuse contradict positively the statement of Teason. The pilot thinks she did not sheer either way after the
steamer came in sight. lie says she might have headed a
The New Jersey, Olcott, 444; The Rose, 2 W. Robinson, 3; Holt's Rule
of the Road, 227, 247.

Dec. 1869.]

INSURANCE COMPANY

V.

WEIDE.

677

Syllabus.

little to the westward. The captain of the Colgate saw her
sheer to the westward as soon as her engine was stopped.
lie says the Colgate had a tendency to pull her in that direction. The wind and tide both contributed to that result.
The testimony of these officers outweighs that of Teason,
which has no support from any other witness. The stem of
the Colgate was twenty feet aft of the stem of the Syracuse.
The steamer in crossing headed to the eastward. If, as is
alleged, the sudden sheer of the Syracuse brought her into
the track of the steamer, and thus produced the collision,
the blow must necessarily have been given by the stem of
one steamer or the other. Such was not the result. The
stem of neither touched the other. The steamer struck her
port forward gangway against the bluff of the bow of the
Colgate, ten feet aft the stem of the latter. This is entirely
irreconcilable with the testimony of Teason, and is fatal to
the theory which it is relied upon to support. That theory
is the sole ground of imputation against the Syracuse.
Other views vindicating the Syracuse with more or less of
cogency might be presented, but we deem it unnecessary to
pursue the subject further. In our judgment the Syracuse
is not shown to have been in fault.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

WEIDE.

1. Whether or not on the transfer of a case from a State court to a Federal
court, under the 12th section of the Judiciary Act, a new declaration
should be filed, is a question of practice and not a subject for error.
2. In a suit against an insurance company for the value of goods lost in
the burning of a store, day-books and ledgers, whose correctness as
showing the amount and value of the goods is testified to by the person
proving them, are, in connection with his testimony, competent evi-.
dence, though they would not be so by themselves, to show such value.
'8. Where a witness in such a suit, when examined in chief, testifies apparently to the correctness of an abstract made from papers burnt in the
fire, and is cross-examined upon the subject of that correctness, the party

cross-examining cannot, where he has not caused the cross-examination
to be brought up on the bill of exception, object, on a question, on error,

