Dec. 1869.]

UNITED S1ATES

V.

ROCHA.

Syllabus.

anwise, they were errors and not faults. In such cases the
law in its wisdom gives absolution.* It is by no means clear
to our minds that if the schooner had failed to luff the results would not have been still more disastrous. It is quite
probable that the steamer would have struck her midship,
have passed over her, and destroyed the lives of all on board.
Her conduct neither caused nor aggravated the catastrophe.
After reaching the steamer's track she had no power to avoid
it. We find in the record no ground upon which we can
hold her responsible in any degree for the casualty.
The fact that both the courts below concurred in condemning the steamer and in exonerating the schooner is entitled
to our respectful consideration.t
DECREE AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. ROCIHA.
1. The eleventh section of the act of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle
private land claims in California (9 Stat. at Large, 631), provides that
the commissioners created under the act, and the District and Supreme
Courts, ' in deciding on the validity of any claim brought before them
under the provisions of the act, shall be governed by the treaty of
Guadaloupe Hidalgo, the law of nations, the laws, usages, and customs
of the government from which the claim is derived, the principles of
equity, and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States,
so far as they are applicable:"
An appeal from a decree of the commissioners rejecting a claim having been made to the District Court,
and there dismissed for want of prosecution, leave to file a bill of review
upon newly discovered evidence was granted by that court: Held, that
though the provision of the eleventh section refers to the rules to be
observed by the courts in passing upon the merits of the claimant's
right, or title to the land, the liberal and equitable principles there
enjoined as a duty in the decision of cases, cannot be fully or fairly
carried out without giving to them application and effect in conducting the proceedings before the courts as well as in passing upon the
merits; and that to this end the court possessed the power to open a case
for the purpose of hearing newly discovered evidence upon the title of
the claimant.
* The Grace Girdler, 7 Wallace, 201.

UNITED STATES V.

ROCHA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. In 1828 certain parties petitioned the authorities of the pueblo of Los
Angeles, in California, for a grant of a tract of land, erroneously supposed, at the time, to be within the limits of the pueblo; the grant was
made, and under it the grantees took possession of the premises, and
they, or their representatives, continued to occupy them until the presentation of the claim to the board of land commissioners, under the
act of Congress of March 3d, 1851. In 1840 the widow of one of the
grantees presented a petition to the prefect of the district soliciting the
land, and reciting that the land had been ceded provisionally to her
deceased husband. The prefect referred the petition to a justice of the
peace, at Los Angeles, for information in respect to the petition and the
petitioner ; the justice reported that there was no objection to a concession of the land to her ; snd the prefect then communicated to the governor of the department the petition of the widow, and advised him that
there was no objection to the granting of the petition. Tie governor
thereupon decreed that all the places ceded for ranchos in that jurisdiction should remain as provisional grants until the ejidos (common lands)
of the city should be regulated. Held, that under this decree of the
governor the widow and her children took the title provisionally, that
is if the tract fell within the limits of the town-land, when they were
ascertained, it should be inoperative; but if outside these limits, the title
should become absolute.
APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of California.
This case involved the right to one league of land in the
county of Los Angeles, California, claimed by the children
and grandchildren of Antonio Jos6 Roeha, an early settler
in the pueblo of Los Angeles, where he long exercised the
art of susithing. The land was called Le Brea, which is the
Spanish word for pitch or bitumen, and this name was given
the rancho because it contained a large asphaltum spring,
which added much to its value. From this fact the rancho
was easily identified, and it had been -well known by one
name for mote than forty years.
On the 6th of January, A.D. 1828, Rocha and one Dominguez petitioned the ayuntamiento or town council of
the pueblo of Los Angeles for a grant of this place, called
Ranch De La Brea. On the 8th of April, 1828, the petition
was grhnted by the ayuntamiento, and the title was issued
in the following form, indorsed upon the petition:

"The parties interested in this petition can build their cor-

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V.

RoCIIA.

Statement of the case.

rals, place their stock, make their fields in the lands which they
have signified, on the same terms, conditions, and circumstances
as the other citizens have done who have received such a favor,
being responsible fbr care, and only to report any crime which
they may notice within their boundaries.

This is the usual form of a municipal grant for the ejidos
and proprios of a town.

It was not now asserted that this concession vested a valid
title in the petitioners, although they at the time believed it
did. The land proved to be outside of the limits of this
pueblo. For many years it was supposed by the inhabitants
and municipal authorities of the pueblos of California that
each town was entitled to sixteen square leagues, or four
leagues square, of land. The quantity of land to which a
pueblo was actually entitled under the laws of Spain and
Mexico was four square leagues, and no more.*
In an order of Pedro Nava, dated June 21st, 1791, at
Chihuahua, reference was made to the foregoing laws as to
the quantity of land which a pueblo should take, and the
law is ambiguously stated as follows:
"The extent of four leagues, measured from the centre of the
plaza (square) of the presidio (garrison), in each direction."
The mistake of Nava was subsequently followed in several
orders and decrees of the governors of California, issued in
relation to the pueblo lands. Hence the general impression
that a town was entitled to sixteen square leagues. Carillo,
the president of the ayuntamiento, who signed the grant
under consideration, testified that the land was considered
at the time as belonging to the town, and that before the
grant it was occupied by the town. The city of Los Angeles,
in its petition to the late board of land commissioners,
claimed sixteen square leagues, and prayed confirmation for
Decree of Philip II, Laws of the Indies, book 4, title 5, law 6, ordinance Philip II; Recopilacion, law 10, book 4, title 5; Opinion of Galindo
Navarro, Assessor-General, June 21st, 1786.
VOL.

Ix.

41

UNITED STATES V. ROCHA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

that quantity. Much proof was taken to support that theory,
but it was subsequently ascertained that the true quantity
was four square leagues, for which a decree was entered and
a patent subsequently issued. Indeed, even now the inhabitants of Los Angeles were in the habit of speaking of the
old pueblo lines and the new pueblo lines. The land in
question was situated within the sixteen square leagues
claimed, but without the four leagues patented.
On the 13th of April, A.D. 1840, Maria Josefa, the widow
of Rocha, who in the meantime had died, petitioned the prefect of the second district, reciting that the place called "La
Brea" was ceded provisionally to her husband in 1828, from
which time it had been occupied by his family, and praying
for a definitive grant of the same. On the next day the
prefect referred this petition to the justice of the peace for
information, and on the 28th of the same month the justice
reported favorably to the grant, stating that he Jad gone
with two witnesses to examine the land, found the disefio (yr
map to be in conformity with the petition, and that the petitioner had the proper quantity of stock to occupy the land.
On the 2d of May, 1840, the prefect of the second district
recommended to the governor that the prayer of the petitioner be granted, assigning as a cause that the petitioner
was a widow having charge of a family; and on the 10th of
May the prefect issued and delivered to the petitioner a certificate, as follows, countersigned by his secretary:
"In conformity with the disposition of his excellency the
senor governor, communicated to this prefecture in a note of
the 27th of April last, with respect to that resolution of the excellent departmental junta, all of the places ceded for ranchos
of this jurisdiction will remain of the character of provisional
until the ejidos of the city shall be regulated. I have made
known the said superior disposition to the interested party to
this petition, and she remains informed."
The expediente of these proceedings was found in the
archives, "Departmental State Papers, Angeles, Miscellaneous," vol. xii.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V.

ROHA.

Statement of the case.

From some cause or other doubt arose in the mind of the
widow of Rocha as to whether the title issued to her busband by the city of Los Angeles was sufficient. This appeared from the fact that she terms it " provisional," though
it was not more so than other municipal grants. She therefore instituted the proceedings stated above before the prefect for a more formal concession. Usually, proceedings for
a grant of land under the colonization laws were begun by
presenting a petition to the governor, who referred the petition to some of the local authorities for information. Sometimes, however, when the lands were situated and the parties
lived at a great distance friom the seat of government,* the
preliminary proceedings were begun before a prefect, who
made the usual reference for report, received the same, and
then transmitted all the papers to the governor for his action.
That was the course pursued in this ease, and was in strict
conformity to the following decree, the original of which
was on file in the office of the surveyor-general of the United
States at San Francisco:
"Juan Bautista Alvarado, governor, ad interim, of the department of the California, to the inhabitants thereof: Know ye,
That it being important that the public business of the department may be promptly dispatched, I have thought proper to
decree as follows:
"1st. All those who make petitions in relation to lands, or others of this
nature, will direct the same to the prefects of the respective districts, who
will make reports on said petitions.

"2d.

These expedientes shall be directed to the Secretary of State by the

prefects. And that this may reach the notice of all, I order that this be
published as a decree, and circulated in all the places of the department.

"Given in Monterey, at the governor's house, on the 7th of
March, 1839.
"J. B. ALVARADO.
"MANUEL

JIMENO,
'Secretary."

Monterey, the seat of government, was over four hundred miles from
Los Angeles.

644

UNITED

STATES V.

ROCIIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"OFFICE

OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE.

"His Excellency- the governor, has ordered me to inform your
honor, that at this date, there was issued to the subordinate authorities of the district under the charge of your honor, copies
of the orders referred to; one of them being in relation to the
division of the department into districts, in accordance with the
resolution of the most excellent departmental junta; and others,
that petitions for lands, and others of this class, shall be directed
to the corresponding prefecturas; communicating them separately, and at the same rate, to the subaltern authorities, which,
in the future, shall be attended to directly by the officers referred
to in the decree regulating the affairs of the department, of the
date of Mareh, 1837. God and Liberty.
"MANUEL

JIMENO.

"To the Prefect of the First District, Don Jos6 Castro.
"MONTERFEY,

March 11, 1839."

The governor, when he received the petition of the widow
and the report of the prefect, was uncertain whether or not
the land solicited was included within the limits of the
town-lands or ejidos of Los Angeles; and for this reason he
issued his decree in the form he did, that this, as well as
all other places ceded for ranches within the jurisdiction of
the second district, should remain as provisional grants until
the ejidos of the city of Los Angeles should be regulated.
The records showed that the city had made numerous grants
in the form of the one issued to Rocha and Dominguez on
the 8th of April, 1828. The ejidos of Los Angeles were not
marked out under the Mexican authorities, nor were they
in fact ever defined, until surveyed by the surveyor-general
of the United States, under the decree confirming four square
leagues of land to the city.
The claimants relied, for confirmation of their claims before the hoard of land commissioners, upon the grant issued
by the ayuntarniento (town council) of Los Angeles, and the
long-continued possession of the grantees or their legal representatives thereunder, which was from the date of the
grant. The commissioners rejected the 6laim solely on the
ground of the want of a sufficient description of the tract.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ROCHA.

Opinion of the court.

The board expressed no doubt as to the genuineness of the
papers or the effect of them in the conveyance of a right to
the tract. The decision was made in March, 1855. The
parties appealed to the District Court, where an issue was
made up in January, 1858, and in August, 1860, the appeal
was dismissed for want of prosecution.
In February, 1861, a notice was given to the United States
attorney of a motion to the court for a bill of review on
newly discovered evidence, which was heard and granted in
October, 1862. The newly discovered evidence was found
among the Spanish or Mexican archives of the executive department, in the surveyor-general's office of California, where
they were kept, according to law, upon a diligent search in
September, 1860. Search had previously been made, but
failed, as there was no indices to the volumes of these records.
These documents consisted of the petition of the widow to
the prefect, and the proceedings thereon, including the de.
cree of the governor, which are set forth above.
On the 4th October, 1862, leave to file the bill of review
was granted. It was subsequently filed, and an answer
put in to the same, and leave granted to take further testimony. Four witnesses were examined on the part of the
appellant, in addition to those examined before the commissioners; and, on 8th of December, 1864, the decree of dismissal was set aside, and the decision of the commissioners
reversed, and the claim of the appellants confirmed. The
testimony produced by the claimants showed that their ancestor entered into possession of the land claimed as early
as April, 1828; and tha; the possession by the claimants
and their ancestors had been continuous and uninterrupted
from that time to the present, under claim of title from the
government.
Messrs. Brent and Wills,for the United States; Mr. C. Cole,
contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
Several objections are taken to the decree of the court be-

UNITED STATES V. ROCHA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

low. The first is, that this court had no power to grant the
relief prayed for by a bill or petition of review. As we
have seen, the cause was dismissed the 8th of August, 1860,
for want of prosecution; and, on the 22d of February, 1861,
some five months afterwards, notice was given for leave to
file this petition, which was granted on the 4th of October,
1862, at a special term of the court, sitting at Los Angeles.
There was no great delay, therefore, in making the application for relief, founded on the newly discovered evidence.
The ninth section of the act of March 3d, 1851,* for the settlement of California land claims, provides that the claimant,
if he fails before the commissioners, may present a petition
to the United States District Court praying the court to review the decision; and the tenth section, that the court shall
proceed to render judgment upon the pleadings and evidence
in the case, before the commissioners, and, upon such further evidence as may be taken by order of the court; the
eleventh section, that the District Courts, and the Supreme
Court on appeal, shall, " in deciding on the validity of any
claim brought before them under the provisions of the act,
be governed by the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, the law
of nations, the laws, usages, and customs of the government
from which the claim is derived, the principles of equity,
and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States,
so far as they are applicable."
This provision, doubtless, refers to the rules to be observed
by the courts in passing upon the merits of the claimant's
right or title to the land; but no one can avoid seeing, that
the liberal and equitable principles thus enjoined as a duty
in the decision of the cases, cannot be fully or fairly carried
out, without giving to them a reasonable application and
effect in conducting the proceedings before the courts as
well as in passing upon the merits. And, regarding these
principles in this light, we cannot agree that the court possessed no power to open the case for the purpose of hearing
the newly discovered evidence. It is not important what
* 9 Stat. at Large, 631.

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. RoCHA.

Opinion of the court.

the prooeedings are called, petition of review, or motion to
set aside the decree dismissing the case for want of prosecution, for the purpose of letting in the new evidence. There
had been no decree on the merits. The confusion and disorder that existed, in respect to the Spanish and Mexican
archives at the close of the war, when the Mexican authorities hastily left the country, has been shown in several cases
before this court; and some indulgence is due to an honest
claimant as to the order and time in which to produce his
evidence.
The next question, and the only remaining one, that it is
material to notice, is whether the case presented to the court
below justified the confirmation of the claim.
Antonio Jos4 Rocha and his legal representatives had been
in the possession and occupation of the land in question,
claiming title to the same, for a period of twenty-four years,
when, in 1852, the petition was presented to the commissioners for confirmation. The representatives have since
been in the possession and occupation, and in continued litigation to defend their rights, for the period of eighteen
years, making an uninterrupted possession of forty-two
years. The present appellees are the children and grandchildren of the original occupant of the tract as early as
1828. He was then a blacksmith by trade, and one of the
most respectable and substantial settlers in the pueblo of
Los Angeles. The first claim of title under which he took
possession was a grant of the president of the ayuntamiento
of this pueblo, dated April 8th, 1828. The document is in
the usual form by which grants were made of pueblo lands.
Carillo, the president, still living in Los Angeles, was examined before the commissioners, and verified the document as
original and signed by him. The rancho La Brea was then,
and long afterwards, supposed to belong to the pueblo, and,
if so, the council of the city had the right to dispose of it.
This right is recognized in the act of 1851 for settling these
titles. Section fourteen enacts " that the provisions of this
act shall not extend to any town-lot, farm-lot, or pasture-lot
held under a grant from any corporation or town to which

UNITED STATES V. ROCHA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lands may have been granted for the establishment of a town
by the Spanish or Mexican governments." The section then
provides that the claim for land embraced within the limits
of the town may be presented to the commissioners by the
corporate authorities.
It appears from the evidence that it was the general understanding and belief of the authorities of the city of Los
Angeles, at the time, that the Rancho La Brea was situated
within the limits of the city, and which was founded on an
idea, which was prevalent, that a pueblo, according to Mexican laws, was entitled from the government to sixteen square
leagues, whereas it was ultimately determined that it was
entitled only to four, which left this ranch outside of the city
limits. But this was not settled till after the cession to this
government. The city of Los Angeles presented their petition before the commissioners for the confirmation of sixteen square leagues. Four only were confirmed.
Then, as to the second claim, founded on this newly discovered evidence. This is obtained from Governor Alvarado,
in the year 1840. It is true that the formal papers were
before Tiburcio Tapia, the prefect of the district, but authority had been conferred upon hin by the governor. The
authority was issued March 7th, 1839. It states, 1st, that
persons presenting petitions for land shall direct the same
to the prefects of the district, who will make report on them;
2d, these expedientes shall be directed to the Secretary of
the State by the prefects.
The reason assigned was for the convenience of the people,
most of whom resided at great distances from Monterey, the
residence of the governor. The city of Los Angeles was over
four hundred miles distant. The papers in the case conform
strictly to this regulation. Objection is made that there was
no proof of the signatures of the officials to the expediente;
but the answer is, that no objection was made to it upon
this ground in the court below; nor, indeed, does it appear
that any objection was made to it as it respected the genuineness of the papers. The objection seems to have been
founded on the legal effect of the instrument as a concession

Dec. 1869.]

UNITED STATES V. ROCHA.

Opinion of the court.

of any title to the premises. The prefect had expressed his
opinion to the governor that there was no objection to the
grant of the land to the petitioner; but the governor, it
would seem, being uncertain whether or not the tract might
not lie within the limits of the town-lands, or ejidos of the
city of' Los Angeles, issued his decree that this as well as
other neighboring tracts theretofore ceded for ranchos within
the jurisdiction of the prefect of this district, should remain
as provisional grants until the ejidos of the city should be
ascertained. The prefect was directed to make this communication to the petitioner, which he did.
We think it clear, that the fair import and effect of this
instrument, reading it in connection with the petition of the
widow, that she and her children should take the titles provisionally, that is, if the tract fell within the limits of the
town-land, when they were ascertained, it should be inoperative; but if outside these limits, the title should become
absolute.
The petitioner had stated in her petition that she was the
widow of Antonio Rocha; that the tract had been ceded to
her husband, in 1828, provisionally; that it was about two
leagues from the city of Los Angeles; that it was covered
with cattle and horses, and that she desired it for the subsistence of her numerous family.
The ejidos were not ascertained during the existence of
the Mexican government, as the disturbances broke out soon
after this grant, which resulted in the war with this country
and the cession of the lands. Since the peace, the limits
belonging to the city have been defined under the direction
of the surveyor-general of the United States, and the premises in question are not included within them. If this bad
taken place under the former government, it cannot, we
think, be doubted but that under the Mexican laws and
usages this title would have become perfect, and hence,
under the treaty and act of Congress, it is the duty of this
court so to hold. As we have seen, that treaty and act of
Congress make it our duty to decide these cases " according
to the law of nations, the laws, usages, and customs of the

UNITED STATES V.

ROCtIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Clifford, and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

government from which the claim is derived, the principles
of equity, and the decisions of this court as far as applicable." Here the claimants and their ancestors have been in
the uninterrupted possession and occupation approaching
the period of half a century, having entered first under a
pueblo grant, which at the time was supposed to be in pursuance of authority; and, second, was confirmed by a provisional grant from the Mexican governor, who possessed
full authority, which, we think, fairly enough brings the
case within the principles governing these cases.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, with whom concurred Mr. Justice DAVIS, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and decree of the court in this
case, for the following reasons:
1. Because the ayuntamiento of Los Angeles never possessed any authority to make such a grant, and it follows
of course that the document purporting to be signed by
the alcalde is null and void. Argument upon that topic is
unnecessary, as the claimants admit that the proposition is
correct.
2. Because the additional documents exhibited by the
claimants in the District Court show conclusively, not only
that those under whom the appellees claim never had any
grant from the governor under the colonization laws, but
that the governor, when the application was made to him
for that purpose, peremptorily refused to make the grant;
and that they never had any grant or. concession of any kind
from the governor of the department.
3. Because possession before the treaty, of the public lands
held by the former government, without any title, is not sufficient evidence to warrant a confirmation of such a claim.
Authorities to support that proposition are not neccessary,
as they are very numerous in the decisions of this court
published within the last ten years.

