Dec. 1869.]

Tim CITY v.

LAMSON.

Syllabus.

new system. Eight of these banks availed themselves of
the privilege, surrendered their charters as State corporations, and became National bank associations. Two of them
declined the proposition tendered by the State, and are still
doing business in St. Louis. There is no way the State
could compel them to relinquish their charters, nor has it
the power to tax their stockholders on their shares of stock.
Having contracted with these banks to accept from them
annually, in lieu of all taxes, one per cent. on their paid-in
capital stock, it cannot turn round and assess a tax on the
shareholders. As the State did all that it could to conform
its legislation to the requirements of the law, it was therefore in a condition to impose the tax in question on the shares
of stock held by the plaintiff in error.
It is objected that the mode of assessment provided by the
general revenue law of the State, is inconsistent with the
provisions of the act of Congress of June 3d, 1864, as it requires the tax assessed on the shares of stock, to be paid by
the corporations respectively instead of the individual shareholders. This was one of the questions in the case of the
National Bank v. Commonwealth, decided at this term,* and it
was there held that this mode of assessment was not inconsistent with the terms of the law, but in all respects unobjectionable. It is unnecessary to repeat the argument presented
in that case, or to consider the point further, as we see no
reason to question the soundness of that decision.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE CITY v. LAMSON.
1. A holder of coupons which have been cut
they were originally attached, may bring
sent interest already duo, notwithstanding
bond to which they belonged. He need
produce the bond.
* Supra, 353.

off from the bond to which
suit on them, if they reprehe be no longer holder of the
not, if he declares properly,

THE CITY v. LAMSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. In suing on the coupons in such case it is proper enough to recite the
bonds in such general way as explains and brings into view the relation
which the coupons originally held to the bonds, and in some respects
still hold.
8. The suit does not by such recital-that is to say, by one in the nature of
inducement and by way of preamble only-become a suit upon the bond.
It is still a suit on the coupons.
4. A coupon, if of the ordinary sort, being but a repetition, as respects each
six months or other stated term, of the contract which the bond itself
makes on that subject, and but a device for the convenience of the
holder, a suit upon it is not barred by the statute of limitations, unless
the time prescribed in the statute be sufficient to bar also suit upon the
bond.
5. A debt for a specific sum contracted by a city, and invalid because a
statute which authorized the city to contract a debt did not also limit
the extent of it, is made valid by a subsequent statute recognizing the
validity of the debt as contracted.
6. Where bonds issued to bong .fide holders for value, are valid by the judicial decisions of a State when issued, subsequent decisions in the same
State cannot destroy their validity in such hands. GelTpcke v. City of
Dubuque (I Wallace, 175), affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin,
the case being thus:
The 3d section of the 11th article of the Constitution of
*Wisconsin ordains that
"It shall be the duty of the legislature to provide for the organization of cities and incorporated villages, and to restrict their
power of borrowing money, contractingdebts, and loaning their credit,
so as to prevent abuses in contracting debts by such municipal
corporations."

With this provision in force as fundamental law, the leg islature of the State, on the 2d March, 1857, by an act* which
amended and consolidated the several acts relating to the city
charter, authorized the common council of the city of Kenosha to "borrow, on the corporate credit of the city, any sum
of mon3y, for any term of time, at any rate of interest, and payable at any place deemed expedient, issuing bonds or scrip
therefor." The city accordingly did borrow $100,000 to aid
* Chap. 183, Private Laws.

TuE CITY

Dec. 1869.]

v.

LAMSON.

479

Statement of the case.

in the construction of the Kenosha and Rockford Railroad,
and it issued bonds in sums of $500 and $1000 each for payrent. They were headed,
"Issued according to law to the Kenosha and Rockford Railroad
Company, to aid in the construction of their railroad;"
and were made payable twenty years from date, at the People's Bank, in the city of New York, with interest, at the
rate of ten per cent. per annum, to be paid semi-annually,
upon the presentation of the proper coupons for said interest.
For the payment of the bonds and interest, the faith of the
city was declared to be pledged. The bonds were certified
by the mayor and city clerk to have been issued under an act
of the legislature, passed March 2d, 1857, giving authority
to the city to lend its credit, for the sum specified; and also,
in pursuance of a vote of the freeholders of the city, taken
for the purpose of the loan of the $100,000 to the railroad
company.
Attached to each bond were a series of coupons, like those
now usually attached to railroad bonds, for the semi-annual
interest as it should become due in each year. The following was the form of those on the bonds for $500:
$25. The city of Kenosha, Wis., will pay to the bearer twenty-five dollars
on the 1st day of September, 1860, at the People's Bank, in the city of New
York, on presentation of this coupon, being the interest due on that day on
the bond of said city, numbered 1, dated this 1st day of September, 1857.
G. H. PAUL,
Mayor.

H. T. WxST,
Clerk.

Subsequent to the issue of the bonds the name of "The
Kenosha and Rockford Railroad Company" was changed to
" The Kenosha, Rockford and Rock Island Railroad Company;" and a statute of 1859 provided that " the common
council of the city of Kenosha should have generally the
charge and control of all interest the city of Kenosha now
has, or may hereafter have in that railroad." The act then
provided that the common council should appoint a railroad

TiE CITY

v. LAMSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

commissioner, that when duly appointed he should be ex
officio a member of thp board of directors of the railroad;
and a statute of 1862 authorized the city "to issue new
bonds, in exchange for the bonds and scrip heretofore issued
by said city, on railroad account, now outstanding and unredeemed, for the purpose of compromising the indebtedness
of said city on such terms as may be agreed upon between
the city and its creditors."
One Lamson having one hundred and seventy-two coupons fbr the interest due on the bonds in 1860 and 1861, and
unpaid, brought suit against the city to recover it, The
declaration recited in very general terms, the several bonds
to which the coupons that the plaintiff held had been originally annexed, Setting forth that these bonds themselves had
been sold and disposed of, to bona fide purchasers, anl had
since passed from hand to band in the stock market, like
other negotiable securities, so that the plaintiff could 'not
produce them to the court; that the interest had accrued on
the same; that the city had neglected and refused to pay it
at the time and place designated; and that the interest and
coupons were owned by the plaintiff, and that he brought
the coupons into court to be cancelled.
The defendant pleaded, 1st, nil debet; 2d, that. the several
supposed causes of action had not accrued to the plaintiff
within six years from the commencement of the suit; the
statute of limitations. The plaintiff took issue on the first
plea, and demurred to the second, which demurrer was sustained.
From the bill of exceptions, it appeared that the plaintiff
gave in evidence the one hundred and seventy-two coupons,
his doing which was objected to, but that the objection was
overruled. It was admitted that all the coupons, with the
exception of four, which were annexed to a bond produced,
were coupons of different bonds of the same issue, but the
bonds were not given in evidence. It was admitted also
that more than six years had elapsed since the interest accrued on them.
After the plaintiff rested, the counsel for the defendant

Dec. 1869.]

THE

CITY v. LAMSON.

Argument for the city.

prayed the court to charge the jury, 1st, that the bonds declared on, as well as the coupons, should have been produced, in order to sustain the declaration under the issue;
and 2d, that the city of Kenosha had no authority to issue
-the bonds. Both prayers were refused.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff on the first issue
to the amount of the several coupons, and judgment having
been given accordingly the city brought the case here.
Mr. Caryfor the city of Kenosia, plaintiff in error:
1. If the declaration was upon the coupons, the plea of
actio non accrevit infra sex annos should have been sustained
and the plaintiff's demurrer thereto overruled, for all the
coupons recovered upon were more than six years past due.
If the declaration counts upon the bonds, then the plea of
nil debet not having been demurred to put in issue every fact
necessary to the plaintiff's recovery, and required them to be
proved. Certainly no recovery could be had upon the bonds
without producing them, when they were counted upon as
the cause of action and their existence denied by the plea.
There was no proof that any such bonds had ever been
made.
2. The only pretence of authority in the city to issue
these bonds, rests in an act which is in plain repugnance to
the constitution of the State. It is difficult to conceive a
more absolute grant of power, or one that would more colpletely subject the whole property of the city to the wild
and reckless schemes of the city council, for fancied improvements, than that act gives. It would be the duty of this
court, under any circumstances, to hold the act unconstitutional and void. But the act has already been declared void
by the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin,* which is
the proper tribunal to determine its validity under the constitution of Wisconsin, and the decision of that court on this
question, is conclusive upon this court.
Messrs. Carpenter and Lynde, contra.
* Foster v. Kenosha, 12 Wisconsin, 616.

VOL. IX.

31

THE CITY v. LAMSON.

[Sup. Ct.

. Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
We agree that if this were an action upon the bonds to
recover instalments of interest that had accrued thereon, although such instalments had been duly assigned to the plaintiff, there would be great difficulty in maintaining it in hig
name, as well as without producing the bonds, as the proper
evidence that interest was due. The plaintiff, under such
circumstances, doubtless, would have a remedy for withholding the interest; but it is not necessary or material to stop
and point it out in the present case; fbr we do not regard
the action as founded upon the bonds, but upon the coupons.
The bonds are recited in very general terms, it is true, in
the declaration; but, it is by way of explaining aygd bringing
into view the relation which the coupons originally held to
the bonds; and which, in an important sense, they still hold,
though distinct as it respects ownership, as they represent
the interest that had become due upon them. The relation
we refer to is, that these coupons are not received, or intended to have the effect of extinguishing the interest due
on the bonds; as this collateral security, or rather, this evidence of the interest, upon well- ettled principles, cannot
have that effect without an express agreement between the
parties. Besides, the coupons are given, simply as a convenient mode of obtaining payment of the interest as it becomes due upon the bonds. There is no extinguishment
till payment.
The recital is by way of inducement, as is familiar to special pleaders at common law, which Mr. Chitty says is in the
nature of a preamble, stating the circumstances under which
the contract was made, or to which the consideration has
reference.* The office of an inducement is explanatory, and
does not, in general, require exact certainty. Thus, says Mr.
Chitty, when an agreement with a third person is stated
only as an inducement to the defendant's promise, which is
the principal cause of action, it is considered, in general,
sufficient to state such agreement without certainty of name,
*

1 4hitty on Pleading, 290.

Dec. 1869.]

THE CrrY v. LAMSON.
Opinion of the court.

place, or person,* and where the matter is unnecessarily
stated by way of inducement, and might be struck out as
surplusage, and, as we shall show hereafter, may be said of
that in the present case, the Ihilure to make proof of the
statement is not material.
The action, then, being founded upon the coupons, the
material question arising on this branch of the case is whether or not the plea of the statute of limitations constitutes
a good defence. It is admitted that more than six years
have elapsed since the interest accrued on the coupons, and,
if barred by this lapse of time, the defence is complete, and
the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer.
As we have seen, the coupons were made contemporaneously by the city with the bonds for the accruing interest
thereon. This appears on their face. The city of Kenosha,
on the first September, &c., will pay twenty-five dollars at
the People's Bank, &c., on presentation of this coupon, being
the interest due that day on the bond of said city, numbered
one, dated 1st September, 1857, which bond itself contains
a covenant for the same interest. The coupon is not an independent instrument, like a promissory note for a sum of
money, but is given for interest thereafter to become due
upon the bond, which interest is parcel of the bond, and partakes of its nature; and the bond, being of a higher security
than a simple contract debt, is not barred by lapse of time
short of twenty years; and, as we have seen, this contemporaneous coupon does not operate as an extinguishment of
the interest, unless there has been an express agreement to
that effect. These coupons are, substantially, but copies
from the body of the bond in respee to the interest, and, as
is well known, are given to the holder of the bond fbr the
purpose, first, of enabling him to collect the interest at the
time and place mentioned without the trouble of presenting
the bond every time it becomes due; and, second, to enable
the holder to realize the interest due, or to become due, by
negotiating the coupons to the bearer in business transac* I Chitty on Pleading, 291.

THE

CITY V.

LAMSON.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tions, on whom the duty of collecting them devolves. This
device affords great convenience to all persons dealing in
these securities, especially to the holders in foreign countries,
who otherwise would be obliged to forward the bond to the
place of payment of the interest each time it became due, or
trust them to the hands of their correspondents in the country where the payment is made.
This convenience in the collection by the use of coupons,
as is apparent, very much facilitates the negotiation of these
securities abroad, and enhances their value in the foreign
market. And any decision that would have the effect to
lessen or impair the higher security for the interest as fbund
in the bond, by the use of these coupons, wohld necessarily,
to that extent, defeat the purpose for which they were designed. As we have seen, there is nothing in the contract
between the parties that would lead to the conclusion the
nature or character of the security by the bond fbr the interest was to be changed or lessened by the issue of the coupons, but the contrary; for if any such change had been
intended, it should have been in some way indicated in the
body of them. There was but one contract, and that evidenced by the bond, which covenanted to pay the bearer five
hundred dollars in twenty years, with semi-annual interest
at the rate of ten per cent. per annum. The bearer has the
same security for the interest that he has for the principal.
The coupon is simply a mode agreed on between the parties
for the convenience of the holder in collecting the interest
as it becomes due. Their great convenience and use in the
interests of business and commerce should commend them
to the most favorable view of the court; but, even without
this consideration, looking at their terms, and in connection
with the bond, of which they are a part, and which is referred to on their face, in our judgment it would be a departure from the purpose for which they were issued, and from
the intent of the parties, to hold, when they are cut off from
the bond for collection, that the nature and character of the
security changes, and becomes a simple contract debt, instead of partaking of the nature of the higher security of

Dec. 1869.]

TiE

CITY V, LAMSON.

Opinion of the court.

the bond, which exists for the same indebtedness. Our conclusion is, that the cause of action is not barred by lapse of
time short of twenty years. Recurring again to the declaration, we have said that the preamble, or inducement, was
unnecessary, and might well be rejected as surplusage. As
we have seen, it recites, in very general terms, the bonds to
which the several coupons in suit were annexed. Now, each
coupon itself contains substantially, on its face, all this information. It is issued for interest due at a certain day and
.place on a bond, giving its number and date. Another form
adds the amount, but this is unimportant, as the bond is
sufficiently identified without it. The production of the
coupon, therefore, at the trial, will show the relation it bears
to the bond, and, if our opinion is sound, that in this connection it cannot be legally severed from it till the interest
is paid, a count upon the coupon is all that can be material.
The only remaining question in the case is as to the authority of the city of Kenosha to issue bonds to which the
coupons were annexed.
The act of 1857 of the legislature which amends and consolidates the several acts relating to the charter of the city,
confers full authority upon the common council to borrow
on the corporate credit of the city any sum of money for any
term of time, at any rate of interest, and payable at any
place deemed expedient, issuing bonds or scrip therefor. It
is admitted this authority would be sufficient, but it is insisted that the statute exceeds the authority of the legislature under the third section of the eleventh article of the
State constitution, which, it is asserted, requires the legislature to limit or restrict the amount of money to be raised by
the city. Without inquiry into this question, it is sufficient
to say that, after the city had passed the ordinance lending
its credit to the railroad company to the amount of $100,000,
the legislature ratified it. This was equivalent to an original
limit of this amount.
It is urged also that the Supreme Court of Wisconsin has
held that the act of the legislature conferring authority upon

1486

INGLE V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the city to lend its credit, and issue the bonds in question,
was in violation of the provision of the constitution above
referred to. But, at the time this loan was made, and these
bonds were issued, the decisions of the court of the State
favored the validity of the law.* The last decision, cannot,
therefore, be followed.t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Dissenting, Mr. Justice MILLER.

INGLE V. JONES.
1. Although by the statutes of'Maryland which are in force in that part of the
District of Columbia which makes the county of Washington,judgment
against an administrator for his testator's debts should be entered only
for assets as they shall come into his hands, still, a judgment in the ordinary form will not prevent the creditors filing a bill to charge the
realty where the record shows that after such judgment the auditor of
the court has, in pursuance of a reference by the court to him, found the
personalty insufficient to pay the debt, and that recourse must be had to
such realty.
2. The law governing there, makes the proceeding against the administrator

and the heir, when the latter proceeding is necessary, entirely independent of each other. If it be necessary to resort to the realty to discharge debts, a proceeding against the heir must be instituted, and in
that case, whatever has been done by the administrator is without
effect, as to the property sought to be charged. A judgment against the
administrator is not evidence against the heir, and the demand must be
proved in all respects as if there had been no prior proceeding to effect
its collection.
3. When a will imposes on an executor, who is named, duties foreign to those
which come within the scope of an executor's ordinary functions, such
powers do not pass to an administrator unless it be clear that it was the
intention of the testator to make him a donee of the power.
4. A mere administrator, not the donee of such a power, cannot plead the
statute of limitations to defeat a suit brought on a judgment, by a creditor seeking to charge the realty with his debt,
5. The three months allowed by the 69th of the Rules in Equity, for the
See Dean v. Madison, 7 Wisconsin, 688; Clark v. Janesville, 10 Id.
136.-REP.
t Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 175.

