664

HERNDON V. HOWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the said commission with witnesses to support their said
claims; and, if they did so appear, whether or not it was
before or after the seizure of their books and papers by the
provost guard of' St. Louis.
And it is further ordered that the said record, with the
said additional findings of fact, be returned to this court
with
ALL CONVENIENT SPEED.

HERNDON V. HOWARD.
Where an appellant in this court becomes bankrupt after his appeal taken,
his assignee in bankruptcy upon the production of the deed of assignment of the register in bankruptcy, duly certified by the clerk of the
proper court, may, on motion, be substituted as appellant in the case.

IN this case Herndon had taken an appeal from the Circuit Court for the Western District of Texas; and after doing
so had become bankrupt. His assignee in bankruptcy-one
Masterson-now moved to be admitted as a party appellant
in the cause with the original appellant, Herndon.
His motion was supported by the production of the deed
of assignment of the register in bankruptcy of the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas,
in the matter of his bankruptcy to Masterson, duly attested
by the clerk of the court. The motion was founded upon
the fourteenth section of the Bankrupt Law, which provides
that the assignee in bankruptcy may prosecute and defend
in his own name all suits at law and in equity pending at the
time of the adjudication of bankruptcy, in which the bankrupt is a party, in the same manner and with the like effect
as they might have been prosecuted or defended by the bankrupt, and which makes a copy of the register's assignment,
duly certified by the clerk of the proper court, conclusive
evidence of the right of the assignee to sue.

Dec. 1869.]

THE

QUICKSTEP.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The section of the Bankrupt Law relied on, we think,
governs the present case. It seems to require that Masterson, the assignee, be substituted as appellant for Herndon,
the bankrupt, who may be said to be civiliter morluus, precisely as an executor or administrator would be made party
instead of an appellant actually deceased; and an order
will be
MADE ACCORDINGLY.

THE QUICKSTEP.
1. Where the District and the Circuit Court concur in their view of facts in
a collision case in admiralty, the case will come before this court with
every presumption in favor of the correctness of the decision appealed
from.
2. The fact that in a libel for collision a contract of towage is recited in the
libel, does not necessarily convert the libel into a proceeding on the contract. Where the real grievance alleged is a wrong suffered by the
libellant in the destruction of his boat, by the carelessness and mismanagement of the boat libelled, the reference to the contract is to be regarded as made by way of inducement to the real grievance.
3. An objection of a too general allegation of injury should be made in the
court below. It cannot be made here for the first time and after the
t
case has been heard below.
4. In admiralty, an omission to state some facts which prove to be material
but which cannot have occasioned any surprise to the opposite party,
will not be allowed to work injury to the libellant, on appeal, if the
court can see that there was no design on his part in omitting to state
them.
5. It is the duty of a vessel which undertakes to tow other boats, to see that
the tow is properly made up and that the lines are strong and securely
fastened.
6. A, party who does not appeal, can be heard only in support of the decree.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York in a matter of collision; the case, as assumed
by this court upon the evidence, was this:
One Byrne, the captain and owner of the canal-boat Citizen, laden with wheat, contracted with the captain of the

