Bisclori r v. WETHERED.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

BISCHOFF V. WETHERED.

1. A judgment recovered in the Common Pleas, at Westminster, England,
against a person in the United States, without any service of process on
him, or any notice of the suit other than a personal one served on him
in this country, has no validity here, even of a primd facie character.

2. On a suit at law, involving a question of priority of invention, where a
patent under consideration is attempted to be invalidated by a prior
patent, counsel cannot require the court to compare the two specifications, and to instruct the jury, as matter of law, whether the inventions
therein described are or are not identical. The rule on the subject stated.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.

Bischoff and others brought an action, in the court below,
against Wethered, to recover damages for breach of covenant in the assignment of one-fortieth part of an English
patent granted to one Newton. The covenant was that the
patent was in all respects valid and unimpeachable. The
breach complained of was that it was null and void. The
declaration contained certain other counts, namely, the ordinary money counts, and a count on a judgment recovered
in the Common Pleas, at Westminster Hall, in England.
To the latter count the defendant pleaded nul fiel record.
The only evidence adduced in its support was an exemplified copy of a judgment recovered against the defendant in
the said Common Pleas, without any service of process on
him, or any notice of the suit, other than a personal notice
served in the city of Baltimore, and as no evidence was adduced to sustain the common counts, the chief question in
the case arose under the count on the alleged covenant,
that the patent in question was valid and unimpeachable.
This patent was granted to Newton on the 25th of May,
1853, and was for certain improvements in the generation of
steam, consisting of an accessory steam-pipe carried from
the boiler through the fire or chimney, so as to cause the
steam conveyed therein to become superheated; and from
thence carried to the steam-chest, or to an intermediate pipe,
there to connect with the ordinary steam-pipe which conveys
the steam from the boiler to the engine, so as to mix the su-

Dec. 1869.]

BISCHOFF V.

WETHERED.

Statement of the case.

perheated steam with the ordinary steam as it comes from the
boiler. The effect. of this mixture is described to be that
the superheated steam converts into steam all the remaining
watery particles, froth and foam, contained in the ordinary
steam, and thus dries and rarefies the whole mass, and makes
it more effective.
The plaintiff having put in evidence the assignment containing the covenant declared on, and the letters patent
granted to Newton, in order to show the breach of covenant,
put in evidence a prior English patent, granted to one Poole,
in 1844, fbr an invention which the plaintiff claimed was
identical with that patented to Newton. The plaintiff then
called upon the court to compare the two specifications, and
to instruct the jury that the patent to Newton was not a valid
and unimpeachable patent, inasmuch as the invention therein
described was not novel, but was already substantially described in the specification of Poole; and that under the
covenants contained in the assignment, the plaintiffs were
entitled to recover ยฃ500, the amount of purchase-money paid,
with interest. This the court refused to do, and the plaintiffs excepted.
The defendant then prayed the court to instruct the jury,
amongst other things, that there is not on the face of the respective patents of Newton and Poole such an identity as authorizes the court to pronounce that they are for one and the
same invention, and that for that reason the patent granted
to Newton is invalid; and such invalidity being necessary to
support the plaintiffs' claim, and being wanting, the verdict
must be for the defendant. The court granted this prayer,
and instructed the jury accordingly, and a verdict was found
for the defendant. The plaintiffs excepted to this instruction. The case being brought here, the questions were1st (one not pressed), What effect had the proceeding in
the Common Pleas in England ?
2d. The principal one-whether the court below was bound
to compare the two specifications, and to instruct the jury,
as matter of law, whether the inventions therein described
were, or were not, identical?

BISCHOFF V. WETHERED.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. W. M. Addison, for the plaintff in error; Mr. J. B.
Latrobe, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered thd opinion of the court.
As to the first point raised-to wit, the effect of the proceeding in the Common Pleas at Westminster Hall-it is
enough to say that it was wholly without jurisdiction of the
person, and whatever validity it may have in England, by
virtue of statute law, against property of the defendant there
situate, it can have no validity here, even of a prima facie
character. It is simply null.
The second and principal qteslion in the case raises an
important question of practice under the patent law, and deserves to be seriously considered by this court.
It is undoubtedly'the common practice of the United States
Circuit Courts, in actions at law, on questions of priority of
invention, where a patent under consideration is attempted
to be invalidated by a prior patent, to take the evidence of
experts as to the nature of the various mechanisms or manufactures described in the different patents produced, and as
to the identity or diversity between them; and to submit all
the evidence to the jury under general instructions as to the
rules by which they are to consider the evidence. A case
may sometimes be so clear that the court may feel no need
of an expert to explain the terms of art or the descriptions
contained in the respective patents, and may, therefore, feel
authorized to leave the question of identity to the jury, under
such general instructions as the nature of the documents
seems to require. And in such plain cases the court would
probably feel authorized to set aside a verdict unsatisfactory
to itself, as against the weight of evidence. But in all such
cases the question would still be treated as a question of fact
for the jury, and not as a question of law for the court. And
under this rule of practice, counsel would not have the right
to require the court, as matter of law, to pronounce upon
the identity or diversity of the several inventions described
in the patents produced. Such, we think, has been the prevailing rule in this country, and we see no sufficient reason

/1

Dec. 1869.]

8Bisciior

V. WETHERED.

Opinion of the court.

for changing it. The control which the courts can always
exercise over unsatisfactory verdicts will enable them to prevent any wrong or injustice arising from the action of juries;
whereas, if the courts themselves were compellable to decide on these often recondite and difficult questions, without
the aid of scientific persons familiar with the subjects of the
inventions in question, they might be led into irremediable
errors, which would produce great injustice to suitors. We
are disposed to think that the practice adopted by our courts
is, on the whole, the safest and most conducive to justice.
It may be objected to this view that it is the province of
the court, and not the jury, to construe the meaning of documentary evidence. This is true. But the specifications of
patents for inventions are documents of a peculiar kind.
They profess to describe mechanisms and complicated machinery, chemical compositions and other manufactured products, which have their existence in pais, outside of the
documents themselves; and which are commonly described
by terms of the art or mystery to which they respectively
belong; and these descriptions and terms of art often require peculiar knowledge and education to understand them
aright; and slight verbal variations, scarcely noticeable to a
common reader, would be detected by an expert in the art,
as indicating an important variation in the invention. Indeed, the whole subject-matter of a patent is an embodied
conception outside of the patent itself, which, to the mind
of those expert in the art, stands out in clear and distinct relief, whilst it is often unperceived, or but dimly perceived,
by the uninitiated. This outward embodiment of the terms
contained in the patent is the thing invented, and is to be
properly sought, like the explanation of all latent ambiguities arising from the description of external things, by evidence in pais.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court was
justified in refusing to give the instructions demanded by
the plaintiffs, and in giving that which was asked by the defendant.
The precise question has recently undergone considerable

BISCHOFF V.

WETHERED.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

discussion in England, and has finally resulted in the same
conclusion to which we have arrived. The cases will be
found collected in the last edition of Curtis on Patents.* It
was at first decided in the cases of Bovill v. Pimm,t Belts v.
Menzies,t and Bush v. Fox,ยง that it was the province and duty
of the court to compare the documents and decide on the
identity or diversity of the inventions. But in 1862, Lord
Westbury, in two very elaborate judgments, one of which
w as delivered in the House of Lords on occasion of overruling the decision in Belts v. Menzies, held that it belonged to
the province of evidence, and not that of construction, to
determine this question. "In all cases, therefore," he concludes, " where the two documents profess to describe an
external thing, the identity of signification between the two
documents containing the same description, must belong to
the province of evidence, and not that of construction."
Lord Westbury very justly remarks, that two documents
using the same words, if of different dates, may intend very
diverse things, as, indeed, was actually decided by this court
in the case of The Bridge Proprietorsv. The Hoboken Company.1j The court, in that case, said: "It does not follow
that when a newly invented or discovered thing is called by
some familiar word, which comes nearest to expressing the
new idea, that the thing so styled is really the thing formerly
meant by the familiar word." And the decision was that
the word "bridge," in an old bridge law, passed in 1790, did
not mean the same thing as the same word meant when applied to the modern structure of a railroad bridge.
This view of the case is not intended to, and does not,
trench upon the doctrine that the construction of written instruments is the province of the court alone. It is not the
construction of the instrument, but the characterof thp thing invented, which is sought in questions of identity and diversity
of inventions.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
446.

*

1 Ellis & Ellis, Q. B. 999.

I1

Wallace, 116.

j 36 English Law and Equity, 441.
88 English Law and Equity, 1.

