VANDALIA RAILROAD v. SOUTH BEND.
207 U.S.

Syllabus.

We regard these criticisms answered by our general discussion, and we have specially noticed them that it may not be
thought we have overlooked them. They may emphasize what
we have already said as to the possible imperfection of the classification of the statute. It must not be forgotten, however,
that inaccuracies of definition may be removed in the administration of the law. And it must be borne in mind that the use
of the non-enumerated ingredients is not forbidden nor the
advantages of the practical tests and scientific research made
by appellants taken away from them. The sole prohibition of
the statute is that those ingredients shall not be used without
a specific declaration that they are used-a burden maybe,
but irremediable by the courts-maybe, inevitable, in legislation directed against the adulteration of articles or to secure
a true representation of their character or composition.
Decree affirmed.

VANDALIA RAILROAD -COMPANY v. INDIANA ex rel.
THE CITY OF SOUTH BEND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 26." Argued October 18, 1907.-Decided December 16, 1907.

The construction of a pleading, the meaning to be given to its various allegations, the determination of the validity of a contract in reference to
real estate within the State, and whether the form of remedy sought is
proper, are, as a general rule, loqal questions.
If the judgment of the state court is based on a decision placed upon a sufficient non-Federal ground this court has no jurisdiction to review it.
While this court is not concluded by the judgment of the state court and
must determine for itself whether a Federal question is really involved,
and may take jurisdiction if the state court has in an unreasonable manner
avoided the Federal issue, the writ of error will be dismissed where no
intent to so avoid the Federal question is apparent.
Writ of error to review 166 Indiana, 219, dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

Mr. Samuel Parker, with whom Mr. John G. Williams was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
There was a denial by the state Supreme Court of an authority exercised under the United States, in that such court refused to consider and thereby, in effect, decided against the
title and right of plaintiff in error, specially set up and claimed
under such authority. That court refused to consider, and
by so doing decided against, the title and right of the plaintiff
in error to the free and unincumbered use of that part of its
right of way and railroad over which it is claimed said Calvert
street exists, its title and right to said right of way and railroad having been acquired under and by force of the judgment
and decree of the Circuit Court of the United States, all as
specially set up and claimed. Sec. 709, Rev. Stat.; Dupasseur v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130; Crescent City &c. Association v. Butcher's Union &c. Co., 120 U. S. 141; Pittsburg &c.
Ry. Co. v. Long Island &c. Co., 172 U. S. 493.
The return of the railway company to the alternative writ
of mandamus, after averring the facts constituting the first
ground for the assertion that this court has jurisdiction,
*makes the direct and positive allegation of the existence of a
Federal right in the following words: "And this defendant says
that in this action it is sought to appropriate its property
acquired by virtue of the decree aforesaid rendered in the
Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of Indiana,
without due process, .of law and without compensation, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States, and this defendant now claims immunity
under said Fourteenth Amendment from having its property
taken from it by means of this action without compensation
and without due process of law." This would seem to meet
even the stringent requirements of the earlier cases in this
court, of which Maxwell v. Newbold, 18 Ho'w. 511, is an example. Upon this ground, viz.: That the state court decided
against the immunity claimed under the constitution, the
return leaves .nothing to inference but the averments are so

VANDALIA RAILROAD v. SOUTH BEND.
207 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

distinct and positive as to place it beyond question that the
party bringing the case here

.

.

.

intended to 'assert a

Federal right. Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S.
648; Green Bay & M. C. Co. v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58.
The state Supreme Court declared *that the return to the
alternative writ was based upon the theory that the contract
between the railway company and the city of South Bend,
relator, was a bar to the action for the mandate, and, having
so declared, held that the conclusiofi reached forbade a discussion of the legality of the various steps taken in the proceedings to establish Elmira street, as well as the constitutional question raised. This amounts to, and, in effect, is a
decision against the Federal right and immunity claimed.
Minneapolis &c. Ry. Co. v. Gardner, 177 U. S. 332; Covington
& L. Turnpike Road Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 576; Mitchell
v. Clark, 110 U. S. 633, 645; Kaukauna Water Power Co. v.
Green Bay &c. Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254; Chicago, B. & Q. R.
Co. v. Illinois ex rel. Grimwood, 200 U. S. 561.
Mr. Harry R. Wair and Mr. L. T. Michener, with whom
Mr. Frank H. Dunnahoo and Mr. W. W. Dudley-were on the
brief, for defendant in error:
The decision of the state court was placed upon an independent ground not involving in any way a Federal question
and that ground is sufficient to sustain the judgment. The
Federal question, if any, lay behind the determination of the
question of the character and theory of the pleading. Plaintiff
in error could not complain that because of the construction
of the pleading the real issue was held to be the validity of
the contract and not the Fede-ral question now asserted. Chapman v. Crane, 123 U. S. 540; Brooks v. Missouri, 124 U. S. 394;
Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300.

Whether the construction of the pleading as made by the
state Supreme Court, or its finding upon the validity of the
contract, were sound or not, is not for inquiry here. The basis
of the decision is broad enough in itself to support the final

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 1. S.

judgment without reference to the alleged Federal question.
Beaupre v. Noyes, 158 U. S. 397, 401; also Klinger v. Missouri,
13 Wall. 257, 263.
All causes of action originating in the state courts and in
the inferior Federal courts are, and necessarily must be, subject to the rules of, pleading obtaining in the particular jurisdiction, and it is for the state court to say whether the particular defense has been sufficiently alleged as measured by the
rules applicable to the pleading obtaining in the State.
If the defense is founded upon a Federal question it must
have been presented, not only in the Supreme Court of the
State, but before the trial court. Chappel v. Bradshaw, 128
I.S. 132.
All allegations in the pleading which go beyond the statement of a good defense upon the theory adopted are mere
surplusage and when the statements of the defense, tested by
the rules of good pleading do not disclose that a Federal question is involved, the Federal court has no jurisdiction. City
of Fergus Falls v. Fergus Falls Water Co., 72 Fed. Rep. 873.
See also Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409; Chouteau v. Gibson,
111 U. S. 200; T. & P. Ry. Co. v. Southern Ry. Co., 137 U. S.
48; Speed v. McCarthy, 181 U. S.613; Union Pac. Ry. v. Pain,
119 U. S. 561; Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S. 180.
If the question of the sufficiency of the pleading should be
held to be subject of review by this court, the reasons assigned
by the state court for holding the pleading insufficient to
present Federal questions are sufficient, treating the matter
as an original question here, to impel the same finding by this
coult.
MR.

JUSTICE

BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced by the defendant in error in
the Circuit Court of St. Joseph County, Indiana, to compel
the Terre Haute and Logansport Railway Company to open
its tracks and yards within Calvert street in South 'Bend, to

VANDALIA RAILROAD v. SOUTH BEND.207 U. S.

363

Opinion of the Court.

make the roadbed conform to the strwet grade, to plank the
crossing of the same, and to make that crossing safe and convenient for the passage of persons and vehicles.. While the
action was pending in the state courts the Terre Haute company #nd certain other companies consolidated and formed a
new corporation under the name of the Vandalia Railroad
Company, which succeeded to all the rights and duties of the
original defendant, carried on the further litigation, and is the
plaintiff in error.
Upon the complaint an alternative writ of mandamus was
issued. To this writ and the complaint the railroad company
demurred, and the demurrer was overruled. The company
then filed its return to the alternative writ, and a demurrer
of the plaintiff thereto was sustained. The railway company
refusing to plead further, a peremptory writ of mandamus
was issued as prayed for. On appeal to the Supreme Court
of the State the decision of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
166 Indiana, 219. Thereupon this writ of error was sued out.
To fully understand the questions presented a statement of
the matters set forth in the complaint and return is necessary.
The complaint alleges that on November ,10,1884, the city
granted a franchise to the railway company to cross the streets
and alleys of the city on the express condition that when it
did so the roadbed should be made to conform strictly to the
grade of the street or alley it crossed, and that the defendant
should so construct and maintain its road at such crossing as
to cause the least possible obstruction to the passage of persons and vehicles over it; that the railway company accepted
said franchise and had ever since acted under it.
It further described that portion of the street whose grade
had been established and which was occupied by the defendant, and which it had been notified to plank and improve.
The demurrer to the writ raised the uestion whether the
action was not founded alone upon the contract created by'
the franchise, and asserted. that the duties of a corporation
springing wholly out of contract cannot be enforced by writs

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.-

of mandamus; also whether the plaintiff could not of itself
have constructed the crossing and brought ah -action for the
cost thereof and the penalty as provided in the ordinance,
and thereby secured adequate redress without resorting .to
the extraordinary remedy of mandamus. But obviously these;
matters are of a local nature and present no question under
the Federal Constitution.
The return of the defendant alleged that at the time the
original fr4nchise was granted the place at which the improvement of the crossing was sought to be compelled by this
action was outside the limits of the city of South Bend; that
in 1887 it was taken into the corporate limits of the town of
Myler, and thereafter, in 1892, said town of Myler -was annexed
to and became a part of the city of South Bend; that before
this annexation and while the town of Myler existed certain
parties filed with the board of trustees of that town a petition
for the establishment of a street, at first called Elmira, but
afterwards Calvert street, over the ground where the plaintiff
now claims said street is located; that the Terre Haute and
Logansport Railroad Company, then the owner of the real
estate, had no notice of the proceedings had for the establishment of said street and took no part therein; neither did it
receive any compensation on account thereof; that prior thereto
that company had placed a trust deed on the property, which,
after the attempted establishment of the street, was foreclosed
by suit in the United States Circuit Court for the State and
District of Indiana, and the property purchased by one Joshua
T. Brooks, who directed a conveyance to the Terre Haute and
Logansport Railway Company, the defendant herein; that
neither the trustee in said trust deed nor any holder of bonds
secured by it was a party to the proceedings for the establishment of said street, nor was any notice of said procee.dings
given to said trustee or any bondholder, nor did either have
any knowledge thereof; that no damages for the opening of
the street were assessed or tendered to either, and that at the.
time of the purchase of the property and the payment of the

VANDALIA RAILROAD v. SOUTH BEND.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

purchase price neither the purchaser nor the railroad company nor the defendant had any knowledge of the proceedings
to locate and open the said street. A violation of- the Fourteenth Amendment was in terms claimed in that an appropriation of its property acquired by the proceedings in the
Federal court was sought to be made without compensation.
The return further set forth that, springing out of these facts,
there was a dispute between the railroad company and the
city of South Bend as to the validity of the proceedings for
the opening of said street, and that "on January 17, 1902, for
the purpose of adjusting and settling the said conflicting
claims of the relator and settling the said conflicting claims
of the relator and the defendant, the relator, acting by its
then board of public works, made and entered into a contract
whereby the defendant agreed to construct a steel viaduct,
above and across its tracks at said Elmira street where claimed
by the relator, and the relator agreed to construct the approaches thereto and each agreed to perform the other agreeinents set forth in said contract, which is in writing pnd which.
was reported to the common council of said city-of; South Bend,
which, by ordinance duly passed and enacted, ratified and approved said contract. Said ordinance and said contract are
in the following words and figures, to wit: 'Ordinance. An ordinance ratifying a contract between the Department of Public
Works and the Terre Haute and Logansport Railway. Be it
ordained by the Common Council of the City of South Bend,
that the within contract, mado on the 17th day of January,
1902, between the Department of Public Works and the Terre
Haute and Logansport Railway Company is hereby ratified
and approved. This agreemeiit made this 17th day of January, 1902, between the City of South Bend, by and through
its Board of Public Works, and the Terre Haute and Logansport
Railway Company. Witnesseth,'" etc. The return further
averred that the defendant was ready at all times to construct
the said viaduct according to said. contract and ordinance, but
the city had not performed any of the agreements contained

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

in said contract to be performed by it, and that it had not
given to the defendant any written or other notice to construct
the viaduct according to the provisions of said contract.
In reference to this return the Supreme Court in its opinion
made this'statement of the.contention of the parties (p. 229):
"Appellant's counsel assert aid argue an insufficiency of
the special proceedings of
the notice and return. of service 'in
the board of trustees of the town of Myler for the establishment of Elmira street, a want of notice to the mortgagee of
the property to be appropriated, and, in consequence, a taking of property without due process of law in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
"Appellee's counsel insist that the only question presented
to and considered by the Circuit Court upon the demurrer to
the re-turn, was the validity of the agreement therein pleaded."
It declared that the appellee's view was the correct one, and
that the only question to be considered was the validity of the
agreement therein pleaded. It then proceeded to discuss its
validity, holding that it was beyond the power of the city,
saying: "The agreement entered into between the relator and
the railway company was on the. part of the city an unwar
ranted surrender of legislative power and control over tfic
crossing, and an unauthorized assumption of the burdens of
another, and is invalid and void."
It is now contended on the part of the defendant in error
that no Federal question was passed upon by the Supreme
Court of the State and that, therefore, the writ of error should
be dismissed, while the plaintiff in error insists that there are
two Federal questions; first, whether the state court gave due
effect to the proceedings of the Federal court in the foreclosure and sale of the property under the trust deed; and
second, whether the proceedings for the opening of the street
were had- without notice to the defendant and its predecessor,
and so operated to take private property without compensation. This involves a consideration of the meaning and scope

VANDALIA RAILROAD v. SOUTH BEND.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the return. It is true that in that return it is alleged that
no notice was given to the railroad company or its predecessor
or the trustee in the trust deed or any bondholder, and that
therefore there was no valid appropriation of the property of
the railroad company to street purposes. It is also stated that
by the foreclosure proceedings in the Federal court the full
title to the property passed to the defendant, a title which in
its origin antedated the'attempt to open the street. But the
Supreme Court held that these were merely matterg of inducement leading up to the making of the contract for a viaduct; that they were only presented for the purpose of showing the state of the controversy, which was settled between
the parties by the making of this alleged contract. In other
words, it did not pass upon the Federal questions, but held
that they were put entirely out of the ease by facts set forth
in the return presenting a question obviously not of a Federal
character.

Now, the .,construction of a pleading, the meaning to be
given to its various allegations and; the determination of the
validity of a contract made by parties in reference to real
estate in the State are, as a rule, local questions. Doubtless
this court is not concluded by the ruling of the state court,.
and nmust.deternine for itself whether there is really involved
any Federal question which will entitle it to review the judgnient. P.Fewport Light Company v. Newport, 151 U. S.527, 536,
and cases cited in 'the opinion. A case may arise in which it
is apparent that a Fedeilt question is sought to' be avoided
or is avoided by giving an unreasonable construction to pleadings,--but that is not this ca-se. Even if it be c'onced~d that
the conclusion of the Supreme Court of the State is not free
ffom doubt, there-is nothing to justify a suspicion that there
was any intent to avoid the Federal questions. The construetion placedfby that court-upon the pleading was a reasonable
one. It said in reference to the matter (166 Indiana, 229):
"The manifest theory of the pleader was to show that a
reasonable and bona fide controversy existed as to the validity

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

of the proceedings for the establishment of Elmira street by
the board of trustees of the town of Myler, as an inducement
to and consideration for entering into the compromise agreement pleaded, and that said contract having been legally
executed and not rescinded, the railway company was thereby
absolved from the duty declared upon, to construct and maintain a grade crossing at the point in controversy. 'A single
paragraph of answer cannot perform the double function of
denying the cause of action, and confessing and avoiding it.
It must be one thing or the other, but it cannot be both; and
its character, in this respect, must be determined from the
general scope of its averments.' Kimble v. Christie, 55 Indiana,
140, 144. The return under consideration. was intended to
confess and avoid the duty sought to be enforced, and its
sufficiency must be determined upon that theory. This conclusion forbids a discussion of the legality of the various steps
taken in the proceedings to establish Elmira street, as well as
the constitutional question raised."
We think it must be held that the decision by the Supreme
Court of the State was placed upon a sufficient non-Federal
ground, and therefore the writ of error is
Dismissed.

PARAISO v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
No. 23.

ISLANDS.

Submitted December 2, 1907.-Decided December 16, 1907.

Where a case is brought up from the Circuit Court on the ground that the
construction or application of the Constitution of the United States is involved, the record must show that the question was raised for the consideration of the court below; and, under ยง 10 of the act of July 1, 1902,
32 Stat. 695, this rule applies to writs of error to review judgments of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands.
A complaint, sufficiently clear to the mind of a person of rudimentary intelligence as to what it charges the defendant with, informs the accused
of the nature and cause of the accusation against him, and a conviction

