CHAPMAN v. BOWEN.'
207 U4 S.

Statement of the Ca".

CHAPMAN, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF McCOY, v.
BOWEN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 168. Submitted October 14, 1907.-Decided November 11, 1907.
Clause 3 of general order in bankruptcy XXXVI applies to appealable cases
and must be complied with.
This appeal cannot be maintained because it does not come within either
paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 of ยง25 b of the bankruptcy act.
Where the decision below proceeds on jrinciples of general-law broad enough
to sustain it without reference to provisions of the bankruptcy act, the
question involved is not one which would justify a writ of error from the
highest court of a State to this court.
Appeal from 150 Fed. Rep. 106, dismissed.

THE firm of A. McCoy & Company, a banking copartnership
at Rensselaer, Indiana, was composed of Alfred McCoy and
Thomas McCoy, and on July 11, 1904, the copartnership and
its individual members were respectively adjudicated bankrupts.
Abner T. Bowen presented claims, on notes signed by the
firm and also by its members, against the estate of the copartnership, which were allowed, and against the individual estate
of Alfred McCoy, which were disallowed, by the referee, "subject only to such right as said claimant may have in said estate
as a creditor of the estate of the firm of A. McCoy & Company,
bankrupts, after the payment of .the individual creditors of
the estate of said Alfred McCoy, bankrupt."
Petition for review was filed and the matter certified to the
District Court for the District of Indiana, by which the decision
and order of the referee were approved and affirmed. Thereupon the case was carried by appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which reversed the judgment
of the District Court and remanded the cause "with instrueions to allow the claim as a debt against the individual estate

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

207 U. S.

of Alfred McCoy to be paid therefrom ratably with other creditors of the estate to the extent that such debt is not paid in
the administration of the estate of the firm of McCoy & Company." 150 Fed. Rep. 106.
An appeal to this court was allowed by a judge of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and the base having been docketed here was
submitted on a motion to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. Harry R. Kurrie,Mr. Frank Foltz and Mr. S. P. Thompson, for appellant:
This record does show that the court below complied with
this court's order, XXXVI, ยง 3, at or before the time of entering
its judgment, and did make as the record shows, a.finding of
facts.
The court here did all that the statute required of it.
First. It stated the inferential facts, secundum allegata et
p~robat&.
Second. It interpreted the statute of bankruptcy, by citing
authorities and by reason and analogy,
Third. It stated its conclusion of law.
Fourth. It set forth the judgment and mandate of the court.
There is no recital of the testimony as to the value received,
the identification of the payee, the explanation of the maker,
A. McCoy & Co., or as to the appellee receiving dividends from
the estate of A. McCoy & Co.
So that in the light of the findings each note is made to read
"for value received by A. McCoy & Co., a firm composed of
Alfred McCoy and Thomas J. McCoy, promised to pay Abner T.
Bowen." This court only required a reasonable conformity to
its order. The statute of bankruptcy as a scheme seeks to reach
the merits of the controversy and not to enforce technicalities.
The amount involved as deposed- by claimant is more than
the jurisdictional amount of $2,000. The determination of
the proper rule of distribution under ยง5, subd. f, of the bankrupt law is essential to the uniform operation of the bankrupt
act throughout the United States.

CHAPMAN v. BOWEN.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. M. Winfield, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion to dismiss was-rested on two grounds: (1). That
appellant had failed to comply with clause 3 of general order in
bankruptcy XXXVI; (2) That the case was not appealable to
this court.
Clause 3 of general order XXXVI reads as follows:
"In every case in which either party is entitled by the act to
take an appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, the
court from which the appeal lies shall, at or before the time of
entering its judgment or decree, make and file a finding of the
facts, and its conclusions of law thereon, stated separately;
and the record transmitted to the Supreme Court of the United States on such an appeal shall consist only of the pleadings,
the judgment or decree, the finding of facts, and the conclusions
of law."
No such finding of facts and conclusions of law was made in
this case, nor was the court requested to make such finding.
-The appeal was a general appeal, and the entire record was
sent up.. The omission cannot be supplied by reference to the
opinion as is attempted in argument. British Queen Mining
Company v. Baker Silver Mining Company, 139 U. S. 222, and
cases cited; Lehnen v. Dickson, 148 U. S. 71, 74.
But if the case was not appealable, the appeal must be dismissed, even though clause 3 had been complied with.
The bankruptcy act provideg, sec. 25, b:
"From any final decision of a court of appeals, allowing or
rejecting a claim under this act, an appeal may be had under
such rules and within such time as may be prescribed by the
Supreme Court of the United States in the following cases and
-noother:
"1. Where the amount in controversy exceeds the sum of
two thousand dollars, and the question involved is one which

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

might have been taken on appeal or writ of error from the
highest court of a State to the Supreme Court of the United
States; or
"2. Where some justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States shall certify that in his opinion the determination of the
question or questions involved in the allowance or rejection
of such claim is essential to a uniform construction of this act
throughout the United States."
As to paragraph 2, there was no such certificate here; -and
as to paragraph 1, we are not able to perceive that a writ of
error from the highest court of a State to this court could be
maintained. No validity of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States was drawn in question; nor the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised
under, any State, on the ground of repugnancy to the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States; nor was any title,
right, privilege or immunity claimed under the Constitution,
or any treaty or statute of, or commission held or authority
exercised under, the United States, and decided against.
The decision below proceeded on well-settled principles of
general law, broad .enough to sustain it without reference to
provisions of the bankruptcy act. And, moreover, even if it
could be held that by his claim Bowen asserted any right
within the meaning of section 709, Rev. Stat., the decision was
in his favor, and the trustee's bare denial of the claim could
not be relied on under that statute. New Jersey City & Bergen
RailroadCompany v. Morgan, 160 U. S.288.
Appeal dismissed.

