INTERSTATE RAILWAY CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
207 U. S.

79

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

made is so short that the act imposing the. penalty and fixing

the time is beyond the power of the State.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissents.

INTERSTATE CONSOLIDATED STREET RAILWAY COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHU-

SETTS.
No. 13. Argued October 15, 16, 1907.-Decided November 4, 1907.

Requirements contained in another statute or document may be incorporated in a charter by generic or specific reference and, if clearly identified,
the charter has the same effect as if it itself contained the restrictive Wvords,
and the question of the constitutionality of the statute referred. to is immaterial.
A street railway corporation taking a legislative charter subject to all duties
and restrictions set forth in all general laws relating to corporations of
that class cannot complaih of the unconstitutionality of a prior enacted
statute compelling them to transport children attending public schools
at half price.
187 Massachusetts, 436, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the statute
of Massachusetts requiring the transportation of school chil-

dren by certain railways at half fare, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Everett Watson Burdett with whom Mr. Joseph H.
Knight was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:.
The statute is invalid as a rate regulation. It makes an ar-

bitrary and unreasonable discrimination, at the expense of the
plaintiff in error, in favor of certain members of the community,

to wit, school children, and of a portion only of such children,
to wit, those attending public schools. That this is unlawful is

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

admitted by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
in its opinion in this case, where it says that if the statute were
to be regarded as an absolute and arbitrary selection of a
class, independently of good reasons for making a distinctiofi,
the provision would be unconstitutional and void. Commonwealth v. Interstate Street Ry. Co., 187 Massachusetts, 436, 438;
Gulf &c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150. And see Lake Shore &c. Ry.
v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684, holding it unlawful to charge one clas of
passengers, to wit, those who can afford to buy 1000-mile tioDets,
less than those who axe not fortunate enough to be members
thereof. As a question of rate regulation, there is no distinction
between that case and this.
Plaintiff in error is not estopped to set up the unconstitutionality of the statute. O'Brien v. Wheelock, 184 U. S. 450,
489.
The statute is invalid as a police regulation.
The promo tion of education has no real or direct relation to
thA statute .inquestion. It does not bear any reasonable or
just relation to the act in respect to which the classification is
proposeo. Lake Shore &c. Ry. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, 290.

While education may be promoted in aid of the general
welfare, like all subjects of legislation in aid of the general
welfare, it is subject to the limitations of the Constitution, and
a statute in order to be valid must not impinge upon the fundamental rights guaranteed thereby. Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, at 558; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27, 31, 32; Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684.
While the destruction of property or of its use is not subject
to the limitation of the constitution respecting compensation,
.if
such destruction is in pursuance of police regulations for the
public health; morals or safety; if a taking of property or of
its use is involved, then it can only be done subject to the constitutional guaranties of just compensation and equal protection of the laws. In the present case plaintiff's property, or
the use of its property, is taken without due process of law,
t. e., without just compensation; and the corporation is dis-

INTERSTATE RAILWAY 'CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
207 U. S.

81

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

criminated against in favor of certain favored individuals, and
is thus deprived of the equal protection of the laws.
It, therefore, is not the exercise of the police power, but of
the general power of sovereignty to enact laws for the general
welfare. But, in either case, it would be subject to the limitations of the constitution against the taking of property without
due -process of law, and against the deprivation of the right
enjoyed by every citizen that he shall not be denied the.equal
protection of the laws.
If otherwise valid as a police regulation, the statute is partial
and unequal in its application, and is therefore invalid.
If street railways are selected by the State as proper instrumentalities to be used, without reward, for the promotion of
education, then all street railways must be so used. If one
system can be exempted, then any other can likewise be exempted, and the logical conclusion follows that the legislature
may impose this obligation upon any one or more companies
of this character, and exempt all the rest. This would clearly
be discrimination, without reason or justice, and would be invalid. It would not be rate.regulation at all, but an improper
exercise of the police power. Gulf &c. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165
U. S. 150, 159. See also Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27;
Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.703; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118
U. S.356; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79.
The statute takes the property of the plaintiff in error without just compensation, and therefore without due process of
law.
The statute prescribes that the rate to be charged for public
school children shall be one-half the regular rate. The regular
rate of a common carrier must be a reasonable one. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Railway Company, 167 U. S.
479, 494.
The statute, therefore, in effect prescribes that public school
children shall be carried at one-half the reasonable rate, and
hence on its face deprives the transportation company of its
service, that is to say, its property, without just compensation.
VOL. CCvii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1907."
Argument for Defendant in Error.

207 U. S.

Hutchinson on Carriers, 3d ed. §521, p. 568; Rorer on Railroads,
1372; Tilt v. Railway Company, 1-23 Fed. Rep. 789.
Mr. Dana Malone, with whom Mr. Fred. T. Field was on the
brief, for defendant in error:
Since the decision of Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, the law
has been settled that a State has power to limit the amount of
charges by railroad companies for the transportation of persons or property within its oivn jurisdiction. Ruggles v. Illinois, 108 U. S. 526; Railroad "CommissionCases, 116 U. S. 307,
et seq.; Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Georgia Railroad &
Banking Co. v. Smith, 128 U. S. 174; Chicago & Grand Trunk
R. R. Co. v. Welman, 143 U. S. 339; St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 183 U. S.
503; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S.
257.
The plaintiff. in error cannot object that, by reason of the
provisions of § 72 of ch. 112, Rev. Laws, its property is taken
or it is deprived of the equal protection of the laws, for it accepted its charter subject to these provisions. The law was
enacted as St. 1900, c. 197, approved April 4, 1900, and took
effect upon its passage and its provisions are in substance the
same; hence they are to be construed as continuations thereof,
and not as new enactments. R. L., c. 226, § 2; Commonwealth
v. Anselvich, 186 Massachusetts, 376, 379. The burden upon
the plaintiff in error was not increased by the revision of the
statute.
The plaintiff in error was incorporated by St. 1901, c. 159,
approved March 15, 1901, and took effect upon its passage.
This statute was a public act, R. L., c. 175, § 72, and may be
referred to here. See Covington Draw Bridge Co. v. Shepherd,
20 How. 227, 232; Case v. Kelley, 133 U. S. 21, 27; Harris v.
Quincy, 171 Massachusetts, 472.
The statute was, therefore, in force when the plaintiff in
rror was incorporated, and it became subject to it. In fact,

INTERSTATE RAILWAY 'CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
207 U. S.

83

Opimon of the Court.

the act of incorporation expressly provided that the plaintiff in error should be subject to general laws. St. 1901, c.
159, § 2. See also section 3. This condition was express as
well as implied, and upon which the State granted the franchise.
The Fourteenth Amendment is not violated by the subjecting
of a corporation to the general laws in force at the time of its
incorporation. Capital City Dairy Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238,
247. A State may properly impose such a restriction as a condition upon which it grants a franchise. Railroad Company v.
Maryland, 21 Wall. 456; Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436; Louisville & Nashville RailroadCo. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677; Purdy
v. Erie Railroad Company, 162 N. Y., 42.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a' complaint against the plaintiff in error for refusing to sell tickets for the transportation of pupils to and
from the public schools at one-half the regular fare charged
by it, as required by Mass. Rev. Laws, c. 112, § 72. At the trial
the Railway Company admitted the fact, but set up that the
statute was unconstitutional, in that it denied to the company
the equal protection of the laws and deprived it of its property
without just compensation and without due process of law.
In support of .this defence it made an offer of proof which may
be -abridged into the propositions that the regular fare was
five cents; that during the last fiscal year the actual and reasonable cost of transportation per passenger was 3.86 cents, or,
including taxes, 4.10 cents; that pupils of the public schools
formed a considerable part of the passengers carried by it,
and that the one street railway expressly exempted by the law
transported nearly one-half the passengers transported on
street railways and received nearly one-half the revenue received for such transportation in the Commonwealth. The
offer was stated to be made for the purpose of showing that
the plaintiff in error could not comply with the statute without
carrying passengers for less than a reasonable compensation

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

and for less than cost. The offer of proof was rejected, and a
ruling that the statute was repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment was refused. The plaintiff in' error excepted and, after
a verdict of guilty and sentence, took the case to the Supreme
Judicial Court. 187 Massachusetts, 436. That Court overruled
the exceptions, whereupon the plaintiff in error brought the
case-here.
This court is of opinion that the decision below was right.
A majority of the court considers that the case is disposed of
by the fact that the statute in question was in force when the
plaintiff in error took its charter, and confines itself to that
ground. The section of the Revised Laws (c. 112, §72), was
a continuation of St. 1900, c. 197. Rev. Laws, c. 226, § 2.
Commonwealth v. Anselvich, 186 Massachusetts, 376, 379, 380.
The act of incorporation went into effect March 15, 1901.
St. 1901, c. 159. By the latter act the plaintiff in error was
"subject to all the duties, liabilities and restrictions set forth
n all general laws now or hereafter in force relating to street
railway companies, except," etc. § 1. See also § 2. There
is no doubt that,- by the law as understood in Massachusetts,
at least, the provisions of Rev. L. c. 112, § 72, St. 1900, c. 197, if
they had been inserted in the charter in terms, would have
bound the corporation, whether such requirements could be
made constitutionally of an already existing corporation or not.
The railroad company would have come. into being and have
consented to come into being subject to the liability and could
not be heard to complain., Rockport Water Co.' v. Rockport,
161 Massachusetts, 279; Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436, 443;
Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S. 371, 377; Newburyport Water Co. v.
Newburyport, 193 U. S. 561, 579.
If the charter, instead of writing out the requirements of
Rev. L. 112, § 72, referred, specifically to another doctvment
expressing them, and purported to incorporate it, of course the
charter would have the same effect as if it itself contained the
words. If the document was identified, it would not nmatter
what its own nature or effect might be, as the force given to it

INTERSTATE RAILWAY CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
207 U. S.

85

Opinion of the Court.

by reference and incorporation would be derived wholly from
the charter. The document, therefore, might as well be an
unconstitutional as a constitutional law. See Commonwealth v.
Melville, 160 Massachusetts, 307, 308. But the contents of a
document may be incorporated or adopted as well by generic
as by specific reference, if only the purport of the adopting
statute is clear. Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466, 477. See
Purdy v. Erie R. R. Co., 162 N. Y., 42.
Speaking for myself alone, I think that there are considerations on the other side from the foregoing argument that make
it unsafe not to discuss the validity of the regulation apart from
the supposition that the plaintiff in error has accepted it. See
W. W. Cargill Co. v. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452, 468. Therefore
I proceed to state my grounds for thinking. the statute constitutional irrespective of any disabilitie- to object to its terms.
The discrimination alleged is the express exception from the
act of 1900 of the Boston Elevated Railway Company and the
railways then owned, leased or operated by it. But, in the first
place, this was a legislative adjudication-concerning a specific
road, as in Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S.' 371, not a general
prospective classification as in Mlartin v. District of Columbia,
205 U. S. 135, 138. A general law must be judged by public
facts, but a specific adjudication may depend upon many
things not judicially known. Therefore the law must be sustained on this point unless the facts offered in evidence clearly
show that the exception cannot be upheld. But the local facts
are not before us, and it follows that we cannot say that the
legislature could not have been justified in thus limiting its
action. Covington & Lexington Turnpike Road Co. v. Sandford,
164 U. S. 578, 597, 598.- In the next place, if the only ground.
were that the charter of the Elevated Railway contained a
contract against the imposition of such a requirement, it would
be attributing to the Fourteenth Amendment an excessively
nice operation to say that the immunity of a single corporation prevented-the passage-of an otherwise desirable and wholesome law. It is unnecessary to consider what would be the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

effect on the statute by construction in Massachusetts if the
exception could not be upheld. For, if in order to avoid the
Scylla of, unjustifiable class legislation, the law were read as
universal, (see Dunbar v.Boston & Providence R. R. Co., 181
Massachusetts, 383, 386) it might be thought by this Court to
fall into the Charybdis of impairing the obligation of a contract
with the elevated road, although that objection might perhaps be held not to be open to the plaintiff in error here.
Hatch v-Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160.
The objection that seems to me, as it seemed to the court
below, most serious is that the statute unjustifiably appropriates the property of the plaintiff in error. It is hard to say
that street railway companies are not subjected to a loss.
The conventional fare of five cents presumably is not more
than a reasonable fare, and it is at least questionable whether
street railway companies would- be permitted to. increase it
on the ground of this burden. It is assumed by the statute in
question that the ordinary fare may be charged for these
children or some of them when not going to or from school.
Whatever the fare, the statute fairly construed means that
children going to or from school must be carried for half the
sum that would be reasonable compensation for their carriage,
if we looked only to the business aspect of the question. Moreover, while it may be true that in some cases rates or fares may
be reduced to an unprofitable point in view of the business as
a whole or upon special considerations, Minneapolis & St.
Louis R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186 U. S. 256, 267, it is not
enough to justify a general law like this, that the companies
concerned still may be able to make a profit from other sources,
for all that appears. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. North
CarolinaCorporationCommission, 206 U. S. 1, 24, 25.
Notwithstanding the foregoing considerations I hesitatingly
agree with the state court that the requirement may be justified under what commonly is called the police power. The
obverse way of stating this power in the sense in which I am
using the phrase would be that constitutional rights like others

INTERSTATE RAILWAY CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
207 U. S.

87

Opinion of the Court.

are matters of degree and that the great constitutional provisions for the protection of property are not to be pushed to
a logical extreme, but must be taken to permit the infliction
of sortie fractional and relatively small losses without compensation, for some at least of the purposes of wholesome legislation. Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 U. S. 135, 139;
Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518, 524.
If the Fourteenth Amendment is not to be a greater hamper
upon the established practices of the States in common with
other governments than I think was intended, they must be
allowed a certain latitude in the minor adjustments of life, even
though by their action the burdens of a part of the community
are somewhat increased. The traditions and habits of centuries were not intended to be overthrown when that amendment was passed.
Education is one of the purposes for which what is called the
police power may be exercised. Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27, 31. Massachusetts always has recognized it as one of the
first objects of public care. It does not follow that it would
be equally in accord with the conceptions at the base of our
constitutional law to confer equal favors upon doctors, or
workingmen, or people who could afford to buy 1000-mile
tickets. Structural habits count for as much as logic in drawing
the line. And, to return to the taking of property, the aspect
in which I am considering the case, general taxation to maintain public schools is an appropriation of property to a use in
which the taxpayer may have no private interest, and, it may
be, against his will. It has been condemned by some theorists
on that ground. Yet no one denies its constitutionality.
People are accustomed to it and accept it without doubt..
The present requirement is not different in fundamental principle, although the tax is paid in kind and falls only on the
class capable of paying that kind of tax-a class of quasi public corporations specially subject to legislative control.
Thus the question narrows itself to the magnitude of the
burden imposed-to whether the tax is f"ogreat as to exceed

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

the limits of the police power. Looking at the law without
regard to its special operation -I should hesitate to assume
that its total effect, direct and indirect, upon the roads outside
of Boston amounted to a more serious burden than a change
in the law of nuisance, for example, might be. See further,
'Williams v. Parker, 188 U. S. 491. Turning to the specific
effect, the offer of proof was cautious. It was simply that a
"considerable percentage" of the passengers carried by the
company consisted of pupils of the public schools. This might
be true without the burden becoming serious. I am not prepared to overrule the decision of the legislature and of the
highest court of Massachusetts that the requirement is reasonable under the conditions existing there, upon evidence that
goes no higher than this. It is not enough that a statute goes
to the verge of constitutional power. We must be able to see
clearly that it goes beyond that power. In case of real doubt
a law must be sustained.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN is of opinion that the constitutionality
of the act of 1900 is necessarily involved in the determination
of this case. He thinks the act is not liable to the abjection
that it denies to the railway company the equal protection
of the laws. Nor does he think that it can be held, upon any
showing made by this record, to be unconstitutional as depriving the plaintiff in error of its property without due process of
law. Upon these grounds alone, and independent of any otner
question discussed, he joins in a judgment of affirmance.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

this case.

MOODY,

having been of counsel, did not sit in

