OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

207 U. S.

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. COMMONWEALTH OF
KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No: 87.

Argued October 23, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

A municipal corporation is not necessarily bound by the decree in a suit
against another municipality because officers of the State were parties
thereto.
The relation of the state board of valuation to the counties and other municipalities is a matter of state regulation..
In Kentucky, neither a sheriff, nor assessor, nor the board of valuation has
control of the fiscal affairs of the county and a judgment against them.
does not bind the county.
A judgment against a county of Kentucky and the members of the state
board of ialuation restraining the collection of taxes of that county as
impairing the obligation of a contract created by. a law of th4 State and'
within the protection of the Federal Constitution is not, because such
state officers 'were parties, res judiacaa as to the validity of taxes imposed
by another county, nor is such other county privy to the judgment.
It is competent for the legislature of a State to change the day that a bank
shall report its property for assessment and to provide that the lien of
the assessment shall follow the property in the hands of a vendee.
94 S. W. Rep. 620, affirmed. -

THE faCts, which involve the liability of certain banks in
Kentucky to be assessed for back taxes under the revenue law
of the State of Kentucky, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander P. Humphrey for plaintiffs in error:
This court has finally determined, in a case of similar import,
that the thing established by the Federal decree was the binding and conclusive character of the contract embodied in the
Hewitt law. and its acceptance. Deposit Bank v. Franklort,
,191 U. S. 499 (514). See also dissenting opinion in same case.
This court has therefore decided the proposition that under
the Hewitt law the Bank of Kentucky had a valid and binding
contract which the Commonwealth of Kentucky could not alter
.or change, and that by the terms of that contract the property

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. KENTUCKY.
207 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of the Bank of Kentucky and its shares of stock could not,
during its corporate existence, be assessed for taxation for
state purposes ,in a different mode or at a greater rate of taxation than is prescribed in said act, and could be assessed for
taxation and taxed for county and "municipal purposes only
upon its real estate used by it in conducting its business.
.It is further expressly decided that the provisions of the
present constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and
the act of ljovember 11, 1892, in so far as they were intended
to provide or did provide any assessment for taxation of the
property, of the Bank of Kentucky, its rights of property or
francfiise or shares of stock, except to the extent and in the
manner provided by §§ 1, 2 and 3 of Article II of the Hewitt
law, and except to assess a tax for county and municipal purposes upon its real estate used in conducting its business, are
in violation of, and repugnant to, the Federal Constitution and
void.
Property is always required to be assessed as of a certain,
date. Commonwealth v. Riley's Curators, 24 Ky. Law Rep.
2006; Baldwin v. Shine, 84 Kentucky, 507; Wangler v. Black
Hawk Co., 56 IowA, 384; S. C., 9 N. W. Rep. 314; Coal Co. v.
Porth, 63 Wisconsin, 77; S.C., 23 N. W. Rep. 105; Southern Ins.
Co. v. Board of Assessors, 49 La. -Ann. 401; S. C., 21 So. Rep. 913.
A proceeding under §4221 of the Kentucky Statutes is in
plain contradiction of the decree of the Federal court and
breaks down the contract which that decree establishes as
having been made by the Bank of Kentucky.'
The county of Jefferson was clearly bound by the decree of
the Federal court, as privy thereto, and has no stronger case.
than the Bank of Kentucky.
There was no lien on the assets of the Bank of Kentucky
when they were. acquired by the.National Bank of Kentucky.
Until assessment day it cannot be known, what property
exists. subject. to assessment, or against whom the assessment
is to be made. There may-be an inchoate lien after assessment
day and before an actual assessment. But there can be no

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

207 U. S.

inchoate lien prior to assessment day. If the day of assessment
had arrived then it was -the duty of the Bank of Kentucky to
report its property subject to assessment and pay the taxes.
If the day of assessment had not arrived, it-was not the duty
of the Bank of Kent ucky to report or pay, and there could be
no lien for taxes., The report to be made under the Hewitt law
was to be made as of July 1. The condition of the bank then
governed the assessment. What- assets it had on the preceding
15th of September or December 31 was entirely immaterial..The property owned -by the taxpayer upon the assessment
day must necessarily govern his assessment. If he parts with
his property before assessment day, he cannot be liable for
the taxes, nor can there be any lien for the taxes.
Mr. Henry Lane Stone, with whom Mr. Samuel B. Kirby
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The plea of res judicata as to the Jefferson county taxes is
totally inapplicable, and the demurrer thereto, as well as to
the whole answer of plaintiffs in error was properly sustained.
§ 4241, Kentucky Statutes (Carroll's Compilation, 1903); Bank
of Kentucky et al. v- Commonwealth of Kentucky, 29 Ky. Law
Rep. 643; Bank of Kentucky v. Stone et al., 88 Fed. Rep.
383, 386; Stone, Auditor &c. v. Bank of Kentucky and City of
Loyisville v. Same, 174 U. S. 799; § 51, Civil Code of Kentucky; Northern Bank v. Stone et al., 88 Fed. Rep. 413, 418;
Farmers' Bank of Kentucky 'v. Stone et al., 88 Fed. Rep. 987;
aff'd 174 U. S. 409; Joyes v. Jefferson County Fiscal Court, 106
Kentucky, 615; County of tendermon v,Henderson Bridge Co.,
116 Kentucky, 164; Deposit Bank of Frankfort v. Frankfort,
88 Fed. Rep. 986; aff'd 174 U. 5.800; 191 U. S. 499; Bank Tax
Cases, 97 Kentucky, 590; Stone v. Louisville, 22 Ky. Law-Rep.
423; Equity Rule 48; § 25, Civil Code of Kentucky; Apsden v.
Nixon, 4 How. 467; Hale v. Finch, 104 U. S. 265; DuPasseur
v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130; Metcalf v. Watertown, 153 U. S.
671; Hancock National Banlk v. Farnum, 167 U. S. 640.
The owner of property located within the State of Kentucky,

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. KENTUCKY.
207 U. q.

Opinion of the Court.

by a transfer thereof to another, cannot evade the taxes owing
to the State thereon, it being at- the time under lien therefor
by the express letter of the statute. It is furthermore insisted
that, on September 15, 1899, the property and assets of the
Bank of Kentucky came under this statutory lien for the
amount of taxes levied and fixed by law for state purposes.
In other words, the National Bank of Kentucky took the property of the Bank of Kentucky cum onore, and this obligation
to the State cannot be discharged until the taxes are actually
paid for that year. On account of the failure or refusal to
pay taxes for the year 1900, under the Hewitt act, the provisions of § 7 became enforcible, and the same rate of taxes must
be paid to the State as on assessed taxable property in the
hands of individuals, that is to say, 'under existing laws at the
time of such failure or refusal and those laws were embodied
in the General Revenue Act of November 11, 1892. Frankfort
v. Mason & Foard Co., 100 Kentucky, 54; General Statutes of
Kentucky, ed. of 1888, pp. 1040, 1041 ; §169, Kentucky Constitution; §§ 4019, 4021, 4023, 4052 and 4092, Kentucky Statutes;
Hewitt Act, General Statutes of Kentucky, ed. of 1888, p. 1035;
Act approved April 24, 1882, General Statutes of Kentucky,
ed. of 1888, p. 652; Middlesboro v. Coal & Iron Bank, 108
Kentucky, 680; COmmonwealth v. Walker, 25 Ky. Law Rep.
2122; Bank Tax Cases, 102 Kentucky, 174; Citizens' Savings
Bank v.Owensboro, 173 U. S.636.
The judgment of the court below does not violate the National Banking Act. 5 Cyc. of Law and Procedure, p. 574, par. b,
note 34, citing numerous authorities, both state and Federal;
MetropolitanNational Bank v. Claggett, 141 U. S.527; Michigan
Insurance Bfank v. Eldred, 143 U. S.293.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the liability of plaintiffs. in error, Bank
of Kentucky and National Bank of Kentucky, to be assessed
for certhin back taxes under the revenue law of the State of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Kentucky. That law makes it the duty "of auditor's agents
to cause to be listed for taxation all property omitted, or any
portion of property omitted by the assessor, board of supervisors, board of valuation and assessment, or railroad commission, for any year or years." §4241, Ky. Stats. (Carroll's
Compilation, 1903).
In pursuance of other provisions of the section this suit was
brought. There is no dispute about the facts. The Bank of
Kentucky was chartered by the legislature of Kentucky in
1834. Its charter was subsequently twice extended, but was
repealed by an act approved March 22, 1900. On that day the
National Bank of Kentucky, was organized and took over its
assets.
The purpose of the suit is to subject these assets to assessment
for taxes for Jefferson county for the years 1898, 1899 and
1899-1900, and for the State for the year 1899-1900. Against
the assessment for county taxes plaintiffs in error pleaded a
judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States, which, it is
contended, established that it had been adjudged that the Bank
of Kentucky was only taxable under a law of the State, called
the Hewitt law, and that such law constituted an inviolable
conitract between the bank and the State. And against the
state taxes it was urged that the bank had ceased to exist by
the repeal of its charter before liability under the Hewitt law
attached.
1. By its original charter the Bank of Kentucky was required
to pay twenty-five cents on each share of its stock in lieu of all
other taxation. By an exercise of a power reserved the legislature increased this to fifty cents. By the Hewitt law it.wAs
provided that the banks in the Commonwealth should pay to,
the State seventy-five cents on each share of their capital stock
outstanding, and the ordinary rate of state taxation on the
amount of its profits less ten per cent thereof. The tax was to
be in lieu of all local taxation, except upon *he real estate occupied by the bank for the purpose of its business. It was provided that banks organized prior to,.its passage might accept

BANK OF KENTUCKY
207 U. S.

i.

KENTUCKY.

Opinion of the Court.

the terms of the law. If they failed to do so they were to' be
taxed as other corporations were taxed, and also should be
subject to local taxation. The Bank of Kentucky accepted the
terms and paid the taxes required. In 1891 Kentucky adopted
a new constitution, which provided that all property of individuals and corporations should be taxed according to its
value.. In 1892, to enforce the provision of the constitution, the
-legislature passed a general revenue bill. Under the terms of the
bill banks as well as other corporations are subject to taxation,
and it is provided that thsir property at its fair cash value
"shall be assessed and valued as of the 15th of September in the
year listed, and the person owning or possessing the same on
that day shall list it with the assessor, and remain bound for
the tax, notwithstanding he may have sold or parted with the
Same." Corporations are also required to pay a tax on their
franchise to the State and to the locality where the franchise
is e ercised, to be levied by a board denominated the Board
of Valuation and Assessment, constituted of the auditor, treasurer and secretary. It is the duty of the board to determine
the apportionment of the tax where more than one jurisdiction
is entitled to a share of the tax and fix the place of its payment.
The auditor is chairman of the board, and it is made his duty
at the expiration of thirty days after the final determination
of such values to certify to the county clerks the amount lihble
for local tax, who in turn certifies it to the local tax officer.
The judgment relied on as res judicata was entered in a suit
brought by the Bank of Kentucky in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Kentucky, wherein it im.pleaded Samuel H. Stone as the Auditor of Public Accounts of
the State of Kentucky, Charles Fenley as the Secretary of State,
and George W. Long as the Treasurer of State, the city of Louisville asa municipal corporation, the county of Franklin as a.
municipal corporation and the Board of Councilmen of the city
of Frankfort as a municipal corporation.
The bill alleged the rights of the bank under the Hewitt law
as a contract between it and the State, its exemption from taxa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

tion except under that law, and the invalidity as to it of the act
of November 11, 1892. The bill also set forth various litigations
which the bank had theretofore conducted, and in which, it
insisted, it had been adjudged that it could not be taxed otherwise than under the Hewitt law. And it was alleged that the
defendants would proceed to value the franthise of the bank
in the manner set forth in the act of November 11 for the years
1895, 1896, and 1897, and certify such value to the clerk of
Jefferson county, and that those assessments would be illegal.
The bill prayed that Stone, Fenley and Long be perpetually
enjoined from assessing the value of the bank's capital stock
under the act of November 11 for the years mentioned; that
Stone be enjoined from certifying such valuation to the said
several municipalities, and that such municipalities be enjoined
and restrained from collecting any tax upon such valuation;
that the bank's contract be fully established; that it be declared
that, upon conforming to the same by making the payments
under the. Hewitt law or under its charter, no other or further
taxes should be exacted from it under any form or by any
authority. Issue was joined and the court decreed, among
other things, as follows:
"It is further adjudged, ordered and decreed, by reason of
the several pleas of res judicata, relied on by complainant in
this bill and as shown by the exhibits therewith, complainant
.has an established contract with the Commonwealth of Kentucky, under the provisions of Article 2 of the act of the General Assembly of the State of Kentucky, entitled 'An act to
amend the revenue laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,'
approved May 17, 1886, and the acceptance of the same by
the ,corfiplainant, the terms of which contract the Commonwealth of Kentucky cannot alter. or change without the consent of the complainant; that by the terms of this contract the
complainant and its shares of stock cannot during its corporate
existence be assessed for taxation for state purposes in a different mode or at a greater rate of taxation than as prescribed
in said act, and can be assessed for taxation and taxed for

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. KENTUCKY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

county and municipal purposes only upon its real estate used
by it in conducting its business; that the provisions of the present constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the
act of November 11, 1892, in so far as they are intended to
provide or do provide for any assessment or taxation of the
complainant's property, rights of property or franchise or
shares of stock, except to the extent and in the manner provided by sections 1, 2 and 3 of Article II of the said act, approved May 17, 1886, and except to assess a tax for county
and municipal purposes upon its real estate used in conducting
its business, are in violation of and repugnant to the Federal
Constitution and void."
It is insisted that this decree "decided that the Bank of
Kentucky had a full and binding contract under the Hewitt
law-a contract which the Commonwealth of Kentucky could
not alter or change," and that by the terms of that contract
its property was only subject to taxation under that law. It is
further insisted that the extent. of the decree is not limited by
the reasons given for it, and Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, 191
U. S. 499, is cited.
The important consideration is, upon whom is the decree
binding? Meeting the inquiry, the bank contends "that the
county of Jefferson is clearly bound by this decree as privy
thereto," notwithstanding it was not a party to the suit in
which the decree was rendered, and deduces this from the dependence of the power of the county to collect taxes upon the
assessment by the board of valuation of the value of the franchise of the bank and the certification of the proportion thereof
that was subject to county taxation. It is hence further deduced that a judgment against the state board of valuation
determines the rights of all the local communities claiming
under a valuation and apportionment made by the board and
the auditor.
The action of the Bank of Kentucky is inconsistent with
this contention. In its litigation it made the local conimunities parties, and in the suit the decrie in which is pleaded in

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of tho Court.

207 U. S.

the case at bar as establishing its exemption 'from taxation,
except under the Hewitt law, it secured an injunction against
the Board of Valuation and Assessment by reason of a decree
obtained against Franklin County in a suit to which the boatd
was not a party. The court decided, and it was required to,
decider in order to give the bank the benefit of the decree, that
the state board of valuation was the agent of the municipalities,
county and city, and as a consequence that judgment rendered
against the county of Franklin in the courts of the State, adjudging the Hewitt law a contract between the bank and the
State, was binding upon the board of valuation. "Nor can
,there be any doubt," the court said, "that the parties to the
former adjudications and this litigation are the same. The
real parties'in interest in this causeamong the defendants are
Franklin County, the city of Frankfort, and the city of Louisville. It is for them that the Board of Valuation and Assessment
are about to apportion the estimated value of the franchise,
and to certify it to them for the collection of taxes. The
members of the board of valuation are nothing but their agents
created under the law for' the purpose of assessing this tax.
If the parties in interest in whose favor the tax is to be assessed
are bound by prior litigation, certainly the agents acting for
them under the law are equally b'und.' Iii this' light the Board
of Valuation -and Assessment is in respect to the former judgment privy to the -city of Louisville and county of Franklin,
and the city of Frankfort." Bank of Kentucky v. Stone, 88
Fed. Rep. 383, 395. And on account of this agency and consequent privify with those municipalities the board of valuation was enjoined from action against the contract, determined,
to exist by the judgment set up and to which the board was
not a party by name. The reason given fok the decision i§
now opposed by plaintiffs in error and a decree obtained on
account of it is asserted to be independent of it. Thevicarious
character of the board, as declared by the court, is attempted
to be put out of view and a decree made against it because, and
only because, it was the agent of certain municipalities' is

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. KENTUCKY.
207 U: S.

Opinion of the Court.

sought to be made an instrument to bind all others without
power of question or resistance on their part. This attempt
is not justified by Deposit Bank v. Frankfort, and, as was said
by the Circuit Court of Appeals in another case, "would be
extending the doctrine of res judicatafurther than any authority
will justify." Northern Bank of Kentucky v. Stone, 88 Fed.
Rep. 413, 415.
The Northern Bank of Kentucky had obtained a judgment
against Bourbon County and its sheriff, adjudging that under
the Hewitt law it had an irrevocable contract, and the bank
sought to use the judgment as an estoppel against other counties and municipalities- as well as against Bourbon County.
It was sustained as to the latter but rejected as to the other
municipalities. The argument was that Bourbon County was
a municipal corporation under the state government, and that
the State was bound by the litigation against it, and therefore
every other municipality was bound. The court rejected the
contention, making the remarks we have quoted. The relation
of the board of valuation to the counties of the State was again
decided to be that expressed in Bank of Kentucky v. Stone.
The latter case was affirmed by this court by a division of its
members. 174 U. S. 799.
There is another answer to the contention of plaintiffs in
error. The relation of the board of valuation to the counties
and other municipalities of the State is necessarily a matter
of state regulation.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky in the case at bar, answering the contention based on the effect of the judgment pleaded
as res judicata, quoted, with approval, the views exptessed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit in the Northern
Bank case, of the relation of the State to its counties and cities,
and, pronounced those views conclusive of "the duty of the
Bank of Kentucky to pay its taxes for the years in question."
And the court applied the doctrine of the case of Henderson
County v. Henderson Bridge Co., 116 Kentucky, 164, and declared that the question there considered was substantially the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

same as involved in the case at bar. Quoting that doctrine, the
court said: "A person or municipality is not bound by former
litigation, unless it was a party, either actually or by its .representative. Under our statute the fiscal court has control of
the affairs of the county, and the sheriff is only a tax collector,
in no wise a representative of the county in the management
of its affairs, and the county is not therefore bound by any
adjudication to which it was not a party." In other words,
the court held that neither a sheriff nor an assessor had control
of the affairs of the county, and a judgment against either did
not bind the county. Applying this, the court further said
"the board of assessment and valuation did not have control
of the fiscal affairs of Jefferson County, and in our opinion the
judgment did not bind Jefferson County."
2. To support the contention that there is no liability to
the State for the tax of 1900, it is contended. that the property
of the Bank of Kentucky was only assessable under the Hewitt
law, and before the property was required to be returned for
assessment under that law the Bank of Kentucky had ceased
to exist, and its property passed to the National Bank of Kentucky free from any lien.
A brief recapitulation of the facts will make the contention
clear. Under the Hewitt law the stock and assets of banks
were ascertained as of July 1, and the tax paid thereon. On
May 1, 1900, as we have seen, by not accepting the conditions
imposed upon it by the legislature, the charter of the Bank
of Kentucky was repealed. On that day the National Bank of
Kentucky was organized and the property of the Bank of Kentucky transferred to it.. Under the general laws of the State
all taxable property was required to be assessed and Valued
as of the fifteenth of-September in the year listed, and the owner
or possessor is required to list it.with the a sessor on that day,
and remains bound for the taxes, notwit.hstinding he may
have sold or parted with it. SectiQn 4052. Under the act
of 1892, which repealed the Hewitt law, banks were'required
to make reports on or before the' first of Match of each year as

BANK OF KENTUCKY v. KENTUCKY.
207 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

of the preceding thirty-first of December. This provision fixed
the time the property of banks should be assessed. The Court
of Appeals held that this.law was applicable to the Bank of
Kentucky and fixed a lien on its property, which continued,
notwithstanding the repeal of the charter of the bank and the
transfer of the property to the National Bank of Kentucky.
This result followed, the Court of Appeals further said, even.
viewing the Hewitt law as an irrevocable contract. In other
words, it was decided that either one or the other of the two
dates was the day of assessment and the commencement of
the lien. That of December 31, if the Hewitt law should be
regarded as repealed by the act of I892, and the court decided
that it was repealed. That of September 15, if the Hewitt law
was not repealed, because the provision for the assessment of
property as of the fifteenth of September was a part of the law.
The court said (94 S.W. Rep. 623):
"If, under the Hewitt law, banks were assessed at the same
time the taxes were due and payable, then the assessment
did not take place until the day after the close of the fiscal year
for which the assessment was made and the taxes were paid.
The act does not say that the assessment shall take place on
July 1, nor does it say that it is assessed as of that date. The
bank is required to make a report and pay on that date. The
Hewitt law provides that 'the holder of the legal title and the
holder of the equitable title and the claimant or bailee in p6ssession of the property on the fifteenth of September of the
year the assessment is made; shall be iiable for the taxes thereon'.
Hewitt Law, sec. 6, Art. 1, c. 92, Gen. Stats., ed. 1888, p.
1035."
It was further decided that the only right which the bank
secured was to pay taxes upon the property as designated by
the Hewitt law. "When the right to do this is maintained,"
the court observed, "every right it [the Bank of Kentucky]
had under its irrevocable charter has been respected."
The conclusions of the court are contested by plaintiffs in
error, and it is insisted that the day of assessment was not

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.

207 U. S.
Syllabus.
September 15 or December 31, but July 1, the day the bank
was required to make its report, and that a lien for taxes could
not attach until that day, and before that day the Bank of,
Kentucky had ceased to exist. But we have seen that the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky, construing the laws of the State,
made, the fifteenth of September the day of assessment under
the Hewitt law; in other words, disthiguished between the day
of assessment and the day that bank was required to make
its report. We are not prepared to say that the conclusion is
not justified.' But passing that, we concur with the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky that it was competent for the legislature
to change the day the bank should report its property for assessment, and that the lien of assessment would follow the
property in the possession of its vendee, the National Bank of
Kentucky.
Judgment affirmed.

ARKANSAS SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. GERMAN NATIONAL BANK.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 56, Argued November 14, 15, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

Unless the decision upon a Federal question was necessary to the judgment
of the state court, or in fact made the ground of it, the writ of error must
be dismissed.
Even when an erroneous decision upon a Federal question is made a ground of
the judgment of a state court, if the judgment is also supported upon
another ground adequate in itself and containing no Federal question the
writ of error must be dismissed.
This court, ordinarily, will not inquire whether the decision upon matter
not subject to its revision was right or wrong.
Although the state court may refer to and uphold the statute, the constitutionality of which is attacked, if it does so after stating the rule at common

