VAIL v. ARIZONA.
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

had been substituted. The restriction shown to Randall stated
that the machine was sold "with the express understanding
that it is licensed to be used only with stencil paper and ink
(both of which are patented) made by the Neostyle Company
.of New York city." Evidently from his reply Randall's attention was drawn to the question of a patent on the ink.
Further he was not an officer or general agent of the defendant
company, but simply a salesman and it cannot be that this talk
with him is notice to and binding on his principal in respect to
all future transactions.
After reviewing all the minor considerations to which our
attention has been called by the plaintiffs, we see no sufficient
reason for disagreeing with the unanimous opinion of the Circult Court of Appeals in respect to the matter of notice, and
its decree is
Affirmed.

VAIL v. TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
ARIZONA.
No. 67. Argued November 15, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

Stare decisi8 is a wholesome doctrine, and, while not of universal application, is especially applicable to decisions affirming the validity of securities authorized by statute. Such decisions should 'be regarded as
conclusive even as to those not strictly parties so as to prevent wrong
to innocent 'holders who purchased in reliance thereon.
Where bonds of a county have been declared valid in a suit Qf which fhe
county had knowledge, and was heard although not a party thereto,
while the question may not' be res j digata as against the county in a
subsequent. suit in which it is a party, under the doctrine of stare decisis
the question should no longer be considered an open one.
The decisions of this court in Utter v., Franklin, 172 U. S. 416, and .iwohy
v. UUer, 186 U. S. 95, adhered to under the doctrine of itare decisis.
85 Pac. Rep. 652, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907
Argument for Appellants.

207 V. S.

Mi. Samuel L. Kingan, with whom Mr. William Herring
was on the brief, for appellants:
The Supreme Court of Arizona felt bound upon all points
raised in this case, save one, by the rule of stare decisis, that
one being the compulsory character, of the act. The rule was
held applicable not by reason of 'the former decisions of the
Arizona court, but because of the decisions of this court, and
evidently the decisions in the mind of the court were Utter v.
Franklin, 172 U; S. 416, and Murphy v. Utter, 186 U. S. 95.
The Arizona court quite misconceived the meaning of stare
decisis and the effects of the rule.
Not only must the point have been adjudicated, but it would
appear that the precise point must have been agitated. By
this we mean: That if it appear that the court should not have
hd presented to it a certain precise point in the earlier case,
but such is presented in the case in being, the former case is
not stare decisis. Hart v. Burnett, 15 California, 598; Foxcro/t
v. Mallett, 4 How. 355; Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 648.
The question of the validity, under the Constitution, of the
acts of Arizona and of Congress was not presented, considered
or adjudicated in Utter v. Franklin, 172 U. S. 416, nor in Murphy v. Utter, 186 U. S. 95. The doctrine of stare decisis does not
apply.
Nor is the doctrine of res judicata, as distinguished from
stare decisis, applicable. The estoppel can only apply as between the same parties and their privies, and upon the same
claim or demand, and which particular demand or claim has
been contested. The parties to the suits of Utter v. Franklin
and Murphy v. Utter, supra, were Utter and his privies and
the loan commission of Arizona and its privies, and they would
be bound upon only contested .points, upon the same claim.s
and demands. In thi*-action 'Utter and his privies are not parties the action is between the Territory of Arizona and Pima
County; the claim and demand is entirely different, and the
isspes here have not been contested in any suit or court..Outram v. Moreivood, 3 East, 346-opinion of Lord Ellenborough;

VAIL v. ARIZONA.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Carter v. James, 13 M. & W. 137-147; Cromwell v. County of
Sac, 94 U. S. 351-353, 356, 361 and 363; Nesbit v. Riverside
Independent District,144 U. S. 610, 617; Davis v. Brown, 94 U. S.
423, 428; Craft v. Perkins, 83 Georgia, 760; Howard v. Kimball,
65 Maine, 308; Smith v. Sherwood, 4 Connecticut, 276; Watts v.
Watts, 160 Massachusetts, 464; Jacobson v. Miller, 41 Michigan,
90--opinion by Cooley.
Mr. William C. Prentiss, with whom Mr. E. S. Clark-and
Mr. Horace F. Clark, were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an application by the appellee, the Territory of
Arizona, for a mandamus to compel the appellants, the supervisors of Pima County, to levy a tax to pay the interest due
on certain bonds. The facts are these: In 1883 an act was
passed by the-territorial legislature (Laws Ariz., 1883, p. 61),
directing Pima County to exchange its bonds for those of the
Arizona Narrow Gauge Railroad Company. The amount of
the bonds and the conditions of exchange were specified in the
act. One hundred and fifty thousand dollars of bonds were so
exchanged. Pima County denied its liability on the bonds,
refused to pay the interest coupons and an action was brought
thereon, which finally reached this court. Lewis v. Pima
County, 155 U. S. 54. The act was held to be in violation of
the restrictions imposed upon territorial legislatures by ยง 1889,
Rev. Stat., as amended by the act of Congress of June 8;
1878, chap. 168 (20 Stat. 101), and the bonds were adjudged
void. Subsequently, by acts of Congress and the territorial
legislature, provision was made for the issue of Territorial, in
exchange for these, bonds and for the payment of the principal
and interest thereof by the county. The validity of this legislation came before us in Utter v. Franklin,172 U. S.416, where
the different acts are fully stated. We sustained it, and adjudged that it was the duty of the loan commissioners to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

fund the bonds. In Murphy v. Utter, 186 U. S. 95, the ruling
was reaffirmed, and it was held that neither a change in the
personnel of the loan commission nor an act of the legislature
of Arizona abolishing the commission put an end to the duty
of refunding.
The refunding having been made, the Territory thereafter
called upon Pima County to pay the interest which the Territory had paid on the funded bonds. Upon its refusal to pay,
this application was made to the Supreme Court of the Territory
and it granted a mandamus, and from that decision the appellants have brought the case here. They challenge the
validity of the refunding legislation, while the appellee contends that the matter is res judicata, or if not should, upon the
doctrine of stare decisis, be regarded as foreclosed. In the two
cases, 172 and 186 U. S., in which the validity of the refunding
legislation was considered, Pima County was not nominally
a party. The actions were brought by the holders of the bonds
against the loan commission. Whether the county. was technically bound by the decisions may be a question. It was heard
by its attorney in the litigation, and was the party ultimately
to be affected by the refunding. Gunter v. Atlantic CQast Line,
200 U. S. 273. But if it be not so bound, still under the doctrine of stare decisis the question should no longer be considered
an open one. The county had full knowledge of the entire
litigation, having been a party in the first action and been
represented by its attorney in the last two. Any defense which
could be made to the refunding of the bonds and the validity
of the refunding legislation could have been raised in the last
cases. This court considered every question 'that was presented, determined that the legislation was valid, and ordered
that the bonds should be refunded. They have been refunded.
They have gone into the channels of trade, and now after many
years-for the case of Utter v. Franklin was decided in 1899and when it is fair to presume that many have bought, relying
upon the conclusiveness of the adjudication by this court, it
might work a grievous wrong to overthrow those decisions and

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. 205
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

hold the bonds void. Stare decisis is a wholesome doctrine.
It is not of universal application, and there have been cases
where a ruling once made was wisely changed; but when the
decision is one affirming the validity of bonds. notes or bills
of a limited amount, the issue of which had been in terms authorized by statute, such decision should generally be held
conclusive, even as to those not strictly parties to the litigation, for otherwise, as we have said, much wrong might be done
to innocent holders who bought in reliance upon the decision.
We are of the opinion that the Supreme Court of Arizona was
right, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

BITTERMAN v. LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 34. Argued November 4, 1907.-Decided December 2,1907.
Railroad companies have the right to sell non-transferable reduced rate
excursion tickets, Mosher v. Railroad Co., 127 U. S. 390; and the nontransferability and forfeiture embodied in such tickets is not only binding upon the original purchaser and any one subsequently -acquiring
them but, under the provisions of ยง 22 of the act to regulate commerce,
24 Stat. 387, 25 Stat. 862, it is the duty of the railroad company to prevent the wrongful use of such tickets and the obtaining of a preference
thereby by anyone other than the original purchaser.
An actionable wrong is committed by one who maliciously interferes in
a contract between two parties and induces one of them to break that
contract to the injury of the other, Angle v. Chicago & St. Paul Railway
Co., 151 U. S. 1; and this principle applies to carrying on the business
of purchasing and selling non-transferable reduced rate railroad tickets
for profit to the injury of the railroad company issuing them, and this
even though the ingredient of actual malice, in the sense of personal ill
will, does not exist.
When, as in this case, the dealings of a class of speculators in non-transferable

