OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

The argument which followed, could it be assumed to broaden
the objection, was far from complaining of the form of action
as such, but rested upon the Constitution and the character
of the seizure of the goods of which it was maintained the
plaintiff was not entitled to possession until after a judgment
of forfeiture.
The record shows that the objection to the form of the remedy
was first taken in any adequate way upon the motion for a new
trial when it was too late.
In conclusion, it was suggested rather than argued that the
constitutional rights of the plaintiff in error were violated by
the seizure of the goods, and reference was made to the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments. We think we need only refer in this
connection to Adams v. New York, 192 U. S. 585, 597, and
Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43.
Finding no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the same is

Affirmed.

CHUNN v. CITY AND SUBURBAN RAILWAY OF
WASHINGTON.
EROWR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 4.. Argued November 8, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

An intending passenger coming to a place where passengers habitually board
the cars of a trolley company, and which, in itself, is safe unless made

otherwise by the manner in which the cars are operated, is not a trespasser
nor a mere traveller upon the highway, but one to whom the company
owes an affirmative duty and it is for the jury to determine whether the
car injuring such person was onerated with the vigilance required by the
circumstances.
Where a trolley car platform is so narrow that its width cannot fairly be
considered without taking into consideration the dangers on both sides
of it, one taking a car on one side of it has a right to assume that he will
not be put in peril by a car running rapidly in the opposite direction; and

CHUNN v. CITY & SUBURBAN RAILWAY.
207 U. S.

303

Argument for Defendant in Error.

he cannot, as a matter of law, be held guilty of contributory negligence in
taking the car at that place. That issue is for the jury.
Even if the plaintiff carelessly places himself in a position of danger, if the
defendant discovers the danger in time to avoid the injury by using reasonable care, the failure so to do, and not the plaintiff's carelessness,
may be the sole cause of the resulting injury.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Victor H. Wallace and Mr. Percy Metzger for plaintiff
inerror:
Plaintiff was standing upon the platform of the defendant,
and by its implied invitation, it wag therefore the duty of the
defendant to see that she was not injured. It was urged below
that there was no evidence that the defendant ever built this
platform, but see Betts v. RailroadCa., 191 Pa. St. 575.
It was the duty of a servant in charge of one of defendant's
cars, on approaching this platform, to have it under such control that it could be stopped in time to avoid injury to a prospective passenger standing upon this platform. This was not
done in the present instance, and serious injury causing the
permanent impairment of the mental faculties of the plaintiff
in error was the result.
The failure of the motorman in charge of the defendant's
car to have that car under such control that this injury might
have been prevented was the proximate cause of the accident,
and this question should have been submitted to the jury for
determination.
The jury should have decided such a case as this. Warner v.
B. and 0. R. R., 168 U. S. 339; R. R. Co. v. Lowell, 151
U. S. 209, 219, 220; Inland &c. Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551, 558,
559; R. R. v. Amato, 144 U. S. 465; R. R. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S.
408; R. R. Co. v. Powers, 149 U. S. 43; Jones v. Railroad Co.,
128 U. S. 443; McDermott v. Severe, 202 U. S. 604, 609.
Mr. Charles A. Douglas and Mr. George P. Hoover for defendant in error:
The principle of law, upon which the court directed a verdit

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

for the defendant in this'case, is conclusively settled, and has
been fully and unequivocally recognized by the Court of Appeals,
as well as by this and other courts.
There is no evidence tending to show negligence on the part
of the defendant in error, but the evidence does show that the
plaintiff in error was guilty of contributory negligence.
The case falls within the principle of cases which hold that
a person stepping in front of a moving car is guilty of contributory negligence which bars a recovery. Harten v. R. R. Co.,
18 App. D. C. 260; Northern Pacific R. R. Co. v. Freeman, 174
U. S. 379; Barrett v. Ry. Co., 20 App. D. C. 381; R. R. Co. v.
Houston, 95 U. S. 697; Edgerton v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 6 App.
D. C. 516; Miller v. St. Paul Ry. Co., 42 Minnesota, 454; Childs
v. New Orleans City R. R. Co., 33 La. Ann. 154; St. Louis &c.
R. R. Co. v. Martin, 61 Arkansas, 549; Creamer v. West End
Ry. Co., 156 Massachusetts, 320; Halpin v. 3d Ave. R.' R. Co.,
40 N. Y. Super. 175.
If the plaintiff was in a dangerous position as the car approached her, which does not appear by the evidence, the
motorman was justified in presuming that she would withdraw
therefrom in time to prevent a collision. Booth on Street
Railways, § 305; Nellis on Street Surface Railroads, 301;
W. Chicago R. Co. v. Schwartz, 93 Ill. App. 387; Citizens' St.
R. Co. v. Shepherd, 64 S. W. Rep. 710; Ry. Co. v. Armstrong,
92 Maryland,'554; Egnerv. Ry. Co., 98 Maryland, 397.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia. The plaintiff in error brought an action to recover damages -for personal injuries which she alleged were
suffered by her through the negligence of the defendant in
error, a corporation operating an electric street railway. The
defendant pleaded in abatement that the plaintiff was, at the
time of bringing action, an infant, under the age of twenty-one
years. Issue was joined, on the plea. Thereafter the defend-

CHUNN v. CITY & SUBURBAN RAILWAY.
207 U. S.

305

Opinion of the Court.

ant, on motion and payment of the costs, was permitted to
withdraw this plea and file a plea in bar. When the case came
for trial at a later term the plaintiff tendered back the costs
and moved the court to reconsider its order that the plea in
abatement might be withdrawn and the plea in bar filed, and
that the trial proceed upon the issue joined on the plea in
abatement. To the refusal to grant these motions the plaintiff
excepted. This exception' requires no further consideration
than that given to it in the court below, and is overruled.
The plaintiff then introduced testimony in support of her
declaration, and at the close of this testimony the judge presiding at the trial directed a verdict for the defendant. The
plaintiff excepted to the order of the court and her exception
was overruled by the Court of Appeals, and is now here for
our consideration.. The question is, whether there was evidence which, with the inferences reasonably to be drawn from
it, tended to prove all the essential elements of the plaintiff's
cause of action.
Without reciting all the testimony, which is set forth in full
in the opinion of the Court of Appeals, the facts disclosed by
it may be stated in narrative form. The plaintiff, a young
woman, had lived and work&d in Riverdale; Maryland, for
about a year before the accident. During that time she had
frequently travelled to Washington on the defendant's cars.
It was the custom of persons who travelled from Riverdale
to Washington on the defendant's railway to board the cars
from what was called the platform near the station of the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. At that point there are two
tracks of the defendant running north and south. The distance
between the inner rails of the two tracks was seven feet ten
inches. The steps of the cars projected two feet two inches
beyond the tracks, leaving, when two cars passed each other
at this point, a clear space between them of three feet six inches,
so that, as one of the plaintiff's witnesses said, "there was
ample room to stand if you were thinking what you were doing."
The platform extended thirty feet lengthwise along the tracks.
VOL. covi-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

It consisted of boards laid on the ground and sleepers and
parallet with the tracks. It covered the space between the
tracks and the rails of the tracks and the width of two boards
beyond the outside tracks. A'road ran west of and near the
tracks. West of the tracks there was "a kind of sink," and
those boarding the cars for Washington from that side had
"to stand out in the mud or in that hole to get on the car."
The cars to Washington ran on the west and the cars from
Washington ran on the east track. It was the custom of persons taking the Washington car to board it from the east side,
standing on the platform between the tracks, and the doors of
the cars were opened to receive them from that side; some
times, however, such passengers entered from the west side.
The purpose for which the platform was originally constructed
was not shown, but it was used in the manner stated and for
the passage of persons and vehicles. One standing on the platform at this point could see or be seen for a distance of at least
a quarter of a mile north or south. On the evening of September 29, 1900, the plaintiff caine to this place to take the car
for Washington. The hour was not stated, but it was light
enough to recognize a person a hundred yards away. The
plaintiff testified that she remeimbered nothing from the timhe
she left her house until she recovered consciousness in the
hospital; but from other testimony it appears that as the car for
Washington approached from the north she went to the platform and stood between the tracks. There were other persons
intending to take the car, one of whom stood near her and also
between the tracks. As the car for Washington came from
the north another of defendant's cars came from the south.
The Washington car slowed down and came to a stop just as
the latter car, without stopping, ran by "at a rapid rate of
speed," as one witness said, or "twelve to fifteen miles an hour,"
as another witness said. No one saw exactly what happened
to the plaintiff, who was standing near the north end of the
platform, but the sound of "a shock" was heard, and the plaintiff was found unconscious between the tracks, ten or fifteen

CHUNN v. CITY !&SUBURBAN
207 U. S.

RAILWAY.

307

Opinion of the Court.

feet north of the north end of the platform. It may be inferred
that she was struck by the rapidly passing car bound north,
which did not come to a stop, as one witness said, for one or
two hundred feet beyond the platform.
If upon these. facts reasonable men might fairly reach the
conclusion that the plaintiff, while herself in the exercise of
due care, was injured by the negligence of the defendant, the
case should have been submitted to the jury. Warner v. Balt. &
Ohio Railroad, 168 U. S. 339. That the plaintiff was injured
by being hit by the car running north does not admit of doubt.
We need not delay at that point, but may proceed at once to
the other aspects of the case. The plaintiff had come to a place
where passengers had habitually boarded the defendant's cars.
The defendant had encouraged and invited persons to enter
its cars going south from the space between the tracks, by opening the doors and receiving them from that side. It was a
place which, in itself, was perfectly safe, unless made otherwise
by the manner in which the defendant-used the east track for
the-passage of cars. The plaintiff, therefore, was not a trespasser nor a mere traveller upon the highway. It is not important to determine whether she had become a passenger.
Intending to become a passenger she had come to a place recognized by the practice of the defendant as a convenient and
suitable one from which to enter the car, and the car stopped
to receive her. The defendant owed her an affirmative duty.
It was bound to use that care for her protection, which was
reasonably required in view of the situation in which she had
at the defendant's invitation placed herself, of the purpose for
which she was there, of the approach of the car which she was
intending to enter, and of the dangers to be apprehended from
contact with a rapidly moving car propelled by mechanical
power. A jury might vell say that under such circumstances
reasonable care demanded the exercise of the utmost vigilance,
foresight and precaution. The motorman of the north-bound
car could see plainly that, the car for Washington was about to
stop, and that passengers were standing upon the space be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

tween the tracks intending to enter it. He might readily have
understood that the noise of the transit of the two cars would
be commingled, and that those who intended to enter the other
car would naturally direct their attention to it, arid might fail
to notice the approach of his own car. In point of fact, the
motorman took no precaution whatever; he assumed that
those who were standing on the platform would take care of
themselves, and ran his car by them at full speed as if oblivious
of their existence. We think, as the Court of Appeals held,
that from the evidence the jury might have found that the defendant was negligent. The question whether the plaintiff
herself was guilty of contributory negligence presents somewhat greater difficulty. There was room to stand between
the two cars and escape contact with either. But the margin
of safety was narrow and left little allowance for the infirmities
of mankind. In the confusion of two cars approaching from
opposite directions it is too much to expect nice calculations
of distances. It is not to be wondered at that in the attempt
to escape the one the plaintiff fell foul of the other. The same
witness (himself standing on the platform 6etveen the tracks)
who said that "there was ample room to stand if you were
thinking about what you were doing" also said: "I realized
that I would have .to'hold myselt strictly in. the center of the
two tracks." We think that the plaintiff, if she was rightly
where she was, was not as a. matter of law guilty of negligence
in failing to appreciate accurately the boundaries of the narrow
zone of safety which the defendant's conduct had left to her.
The three feet six inches width of the clear platform cannot
fairly be considered without taking into account the dangers
which infested the borders upon each side. A platform which
would be wide enough for a child to walk in safety from the
base of the Washington Monument to the steps of the Capitol,
if elevated to extend from the summit of one to the dome of
the other, would imperil the passage of the man of steadiest
nerve. Nor was the plaintiff necessarily wanting in due care
by taking her place between the tracks. It was the usual place

CHUNN v. CITY & SUBURBAN RAILWAY.
207 U. S.

309

Opinion of the Court.

from which entrance to the Washington car was made. It
was safe enough under ordinary circumstances. It was, made
unsafe only by reason of the, defendant's negligent act in running another car rapidly by. The plaintiff had the right to
assume that the defendant would not commit such an act of
negligence, and that when it stopped one car and thereby invited her to enter it, it would not run another rapidly by the
place of her entrance and put her in peril. We think that it
cannot be said, as a matter of law, that the plaintiff was guilty,
of contributory negligence. That issue with the others in the
case should have been submitted to the jury with appropriate
instructions. Nor is it clear that, even if the plaintiff was not
free from fault, her negligence was the proximate cause of
the injury. If she carelessly placed herself in, a position exposed to danger, and it was discovered by the defendant in
'time to have avoided the injury by the use of reasonable care
on its part, and the defendant failed to use such care, that
failure might be found to be the sole cause of the resulting
injury. Inland & Seaboard Coasting Co. v.. Tolson, 139 U. S.
551; Grand Trunk Railway Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S. 408, 429;
Washington & Georgetow" Railroad v. Harmon, 147 U. S. 571,
583; Tuff v. Warman, 5 C. B. N. 8: 573; Radley v. London &
North Wesern Railway Co., 1 App. Cas. 7.54; Thompson cn
Negligence (2d ed.), §§ 238, 239; Pollock on Torts (6th ed.),
pp. 441 to 447 inclusive.
The judgment is reversed and the case remanded to the Court
of Appeals, with directions to reverse the judgm.nent of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, and remand the cause to that
court with a direction to set aside the verdict and award a new trial.

