LEATHE v. THOMAS.
207 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

LEATHE v. THOMAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 21.

Argued October 17, 1907.-Decided November 11, 1907.

In a case coming from a state court this court can consider only Federal
questions decided adversely to the plaintiff in error and upon which a
decision was necessary to the decision of the case, and if the judgment
complained of is supported also upon other and independent grounds
it must be affirmed or the writ of error dismissed.
When the record discloses other and completely adequate grounds on which
to support the judgment of a state court, this court does not commonly
inquire whether the decision upon them was correct or reach a Federal
question by determining that they ought not to have been held to warrant the result.

Writ of error to review 218 Illinois, 246, dismissed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Maynard Harlan, with whom Mr. James S. Harlan
and Mr. Victor Koerner were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The issue raised by the third and fourth pleas of set-off is
identical with the issue adjudicated in the case of Belleville &
St. Louis Railway Co. for the use of Thomas v. Leathe, 84 Fed.
Rep. 103, namely, Leathe's personal liability or non-liability
wider the instrument of March 25, for the debts of the railway
compaiy, and, therefore, the subject matter of these pleas is res
judicata. Moreover, the only issue in this case in the lower court
was that raised by the third and fourth pleas of set-off and that
issue having been decided in favor of Leathe in the Federal
court, the state court should have given full faith and credit
in this suit to the judgment of the Federal court. This it did
not do.
If, as claimed by the defendant in error and as held by the
Supreme Court of Illinois in its second and final opinion, the
judgment in that court was founded, not on the third and
fourth pleas, but on the-first and second pleas of set-off? then

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

207 U. S.

the: plaintiff in error has not been accorded due process of law
since no evidence whatever was adduced in support of the first
and second pleas; there were no findings based upon those pleas
and no trial whatever was had upon them.
This court has jurisdiction to inquire whether full faith and
credit and full force and effect have been given to the judgment
of the Federal court; in determining this question the court may
examine the entire record. Washington Gas Co. v. District of
Columbia, 161 U. S. 316.
Rights acquired under a Federal judgment are substantial
rights which this court will guard and protect. When a Federal
court has, by its final judgment, disposed of a controversy, the
person in whose favor the judgment was so rendered may corffidently rest upon it as giving him a substantial and practical
immunity from further prosecution on the same subject matter.
This court will' not be controlled by the mere surface appearance of things as created by the opinion of a state court,
but, in the pr6tection of rights acquired under a Federal judgment, will look into the substance of things and ascertain their
real character.
Whether a state court has given due effect to the judgment
of a court of the United States is a question arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States and comes within
the jurisdiction of this Court. Cresceft Live Stock Co. v.
Butchers' &c. Co., 120 U. S. 141; Washington Gas Co. v. District
of Columbia, 161 U. S. 316.
Mr. Edward L. Thomas, defendant in error, pro se:
The errors assigned on the record upon the appeal from the
appellate court to the Supreme Court of Illinois, were too general to raise the question of former adjudication, and presented no question for determination upon that issue. Louisiana,A. & M. R. R. Co. v. Boardof Levee Com., 87 Fed. Rep. 594.
Not being properly presented- to the court below, this court
will not consider it. Ansbro v. United States, 159 U. S. 695.
There is ample evidence to support the first and second pleas,

LEATHE v. THOMAS.
207 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

and the affirmance of the case by the Supreme Court of Illinois
is in pursuance of a statute of Illinois. This court will not review or reverse a decision of a state court upon a question of
\statutory practice. Nobles v. Georgia, 168 U. S. 398-405;
Egan v. Hart, 165 U. S. 188; Eustis v.'Bolles, 150-U. S. 361.
This court is bound by-the construction of a statute of a
State given to it by the courts of that State. Nobles v. Georgia,
168 U..S. 388-405.
The question as to the effect to be given the report of a
referee under the Illinois statute is governed by the practice
and decisions of the local courts. The statement of the referee
as to the facts is no part of his verdict. The conclusions of law
are his verdict and are treated as a general verdict of a jury.
This construction is not reviewable in this court, and is
binding on this court.
The three foregoing propositions are questions of state practice under" state statutes and, being determined by the state
court, that determination is final.
When a party invokes an adjudication, he is bound by it in
every particular, and the adjudication must have the effect
given it by the court that made it, and when that court itself
finds what it adjudicated, and what it did'not adjudicate, that
finding is to be taken in all courts as the extent of its adjudication.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the original cause
of \action had not been adjudicated and was still at large.
Belleville & St. Louis R. R. for use of Thomas v. Leathe, 84 Fed.
Rep. 103; Leathe v. Thomas, 109 Ill. App. 434.
The doctrine of former adjudication does not extend to matters not in issue in the former suit. Black on Judgments, ยง 731;
Gray v. Gillian, 15 Illinois, 457.
The case cited by the dissentipg justices and by counsel,
namely, Beloit v. Morgan, 7 Wall.: 619, was practically overruled in Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351; and see
Belleville & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Leathe, 84 Fed. Rep. 103, and
authorities there cited,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

A party is not bound to join and prove all of his causes of
action, although they arise from the same transaction. Black
on Judgments, ยง 733; Van Fleet on Former Adjudication, ยง 279.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

-This is an action upon judgments obtained in Missouri by
the plaintiff in error against the defendant in error, hereafter
called respectively plaintiff and defendant. The defendant,
not denying the judgments, pleaded four pleas in set-off. The
first was for money had and received, interest, and upon an
account stated. The second was upon an alleged contract of
January 24, 1893. The third set up an alleged contract of
March 25, 1893, to pay the debt of a railroad company to the
defendant, a suit and judgment for the defendant against the
railroad company, a bill in equity brought by the plaintiff to
enjoin the proceedings in that suit, upon which one of the issues
was the liability under the contract, and that after a hearing
the bill was dismissed. The fourth plea was on the contract of
March 25, without more. There was a general replication denying the pleas, and also a special replication to the third and
fourth, to the effect that a suit upon the alleged. cqntract was
brought against the plaintiff for the use of the defendant and
removed to the United States'Circuit Court and' there determined in favor of the present plaintiff, the proceedings set up
in the third plea being held not conclusive. (The suit referred
to is Belleville & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Leathe, 84 Fed. Rep. 103.)
The case was sent to a referee to report his conclusions of law and
fact. The referee reported in favor of the defendant and also reported the evidence. The trial court ordered judgment on the
referee's report. This judgment was affirmed by an intermediate
court and then was taken by writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State. That court held that the judgment of the United
States Circuit Court made the matter of the third and fourth
pleas in set-off res judicata, and reversed the judgment of the
court below. But, upon a rehearing, the court, while adhering

LEATHE v. THOMAS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to its judgment upon the third and fourth pleas, stated that
it had overlooked ihe first and second, that the judgment could
be sustained upon them, that there was evidence to support
them both, or at least the first, and that the referee's finding
might be supported under the first. On these grounds the
judgment was affirmed. 218 Illinois, 246.
The case now is here on a writ of error, the errors alleged
being that full faith and credit was not given to the judgment
of the United States court, and that the present judgment was
rendered without due process of law. It is true that the judgment of the United States court was held binding against the
pleas to which it applies, but it is said that it is emptied of all
real effect if a judgment can be entered upon the first and
second pleas, referring to earlier stages of the same transaction,
because it is said that there was no evidence to support those
pleas and no finding upon them, so that to support the judgment
by their presence on the record is a mere pretense, and either
is a denial of due credit to the former judgment or deprives
the plaintiff of his property without due process of law.
In order to dispose of the case it is not necessary to state the
dealings in detail; the following outline is enough: The defendant wanted money from the plaintiff to start a railway company. An agreement with regard to it was made on January 24,
1893, out of which, with the accompanying and subsequent
transactions, the defendant sought to establish a right to be
reimbursed for his advances to the road. Later, on March 25,
of the same year, there was a conveyance of its property by
the railway company to the plaintiff and a conveyance by him
to another company. The former deed was for one dollar and
"other valuable considerations to it from him moving," and
the defendant alleged that the other considerations embraced
a promise of the plaintiff to reimburse him. The referee's report refers to the dealings of January, but seemingly discovers
no contract of reimbursement in them. It shows that the plaintiff insisted that all that he did was under the agreement of
that month, but says that the evidence does not prove it conVOL. C.CVII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

clusively. It says that matters culminated in the agreement
of March 25, and finds that as part of the consideration of that
deed the plaintiff promised to pay.
The judgment purported to be based upon the referee's report, and it may be that, if it were our concern to deal with it,
we should find it hard to discover sufficient warrant for a judgment on the first or second pleas. The general line of thought
which the report follows seems to lead to the third and fourth.
The conclusion is that the defendant is entitled to recover the
amount of the judgment mentioned in the third plea, and this
follows immediately after the finding of the plaintiff's promise.
The plaintiff excepted to the referee's failure to find that everything was done under the January contract. And further
reasons might be given for thinking that the court below was
wrong. Even if the words of the judgment, "renders judgment
on said referee's report," should be held to include the evidence
as well as the referee's findings, and if it should be presumed
that one of the courts below the Supreme Court of the State
had reconsidered the evidence before entering or affirming the.
judgment, still, although there was evidence enough of the defendant's advances to the railway company, we might assume,
for purposes of argument, that there was nothing sufficient to
make out a promise on the plaintiff's part before March. But
on the most favorable statement that we can make on the side
of the plaintiff in error we can see no ground for coming to this
court.
It is admitted that the general and well-settle-a rule is that
in a case coming from a state court this court can consider only
Federal questions, and that it cannot entertain the. case unless
the: decision was against the plaintiff in error upon those questions. Murdock v. Mem phis, 20 Wall. 590; Sauer v. New York,
906 U. S. 536, 546. It is admitted further, that a decision upon
those questions must have been necessary to the decision of
the case, so that if the judgment complained of is supported also
upon other and independent grounds, the judgment must be
affirmed or the writ of error dismissed, as the case may be.

LEATHE v. THOMAS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Murdock v. Memphis, supra. But Murdock v. Memphis dots
not stop there. It further establishes that when the record
discloses such other and completely adequate grounds this
court commonly does not inquire whether the decision upon
them was or was not correct, or reach a Federal question by
determining that they ought not to have been held to warrant
the result. 20 Wall. 590, 635; Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361,
369; Castillov. McConnico, 168 U. S. 674, 679.
Of course, there might be cases where, although the decision
put forward other reasons, it would be apparent that a Federal
question was involved whether mentioned or not. It may be
imagined, for the sake of argument, that it might appear that
a state court even if, ostensibly deciding the Federal question
in favor of the plaintiff in error, really must have been against
him upon it, and was seeking to evade. the jurisdiction of this
court. If tte grwind of decision did not appear and that which
did not involve a Federal question was so palpably unfounded
that it could, not be presumed to have been entertained, it
may be that this court would take jurisdiction. Johnson v.
Risk, 137 U. S. 300, 307. But there is nothing of that sort in
this case. At first, having in mind only the third and fourth
pleas, to which alone the judgment of the United States court
was a bar, the Supreme Court decided in favor of the plaintiff.
It affirmed the judgment below only upon a rehearing, and
after its attention had been called to the first and second pleas.
It did not recede from or qualify its former decision so far as
that went, but simply pointed out that there were other pleas
to which the replication of res judicata did not apply and on
Which the judgment might be upheld. Suppose that-it was mistaken as to the evidence, the mistake was upon a matter admitting of hesitation, for which it would seem from the opinion
that there were special reasons in the state of the record and
the admission of counsel. The question is one with which. by
the general rule we have nothing to do, and we see no reason
why the general rule should not be applied.
The first and second pleas were on the record and at. issue.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

The plaintiff had notice that the defendant meant to prevail
on whatever ground he could. He had his hearing, even if it
should be thought that he might have insisted on a ruling that
there was no evidence to support those pleas. However it is
put, the claim of a right to resort to this court after the only
Federal question has been decided in the plaintiff's favor, must
fail.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE DAY

dissent.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS ex rel. McNICHOLS v. PEASE, SHERIFF OF COOK COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 19.

Argued October 16, 17. 1907.-Decided November 18, 1907.

Habeas corpus is an appropriate proceeding for determining whether one
held under an extradition warrant is a fugitive from justice; and he
should be discharged if he shows by competent evidence, overcoming
the presumption of a properly issued warrant, that he is not a fugitive
from the demanding State.
A faithful, vigorous enforcement of the constitutional and statutory provisions relating to fugitives from justice is vital to the harmony and
welfare of the States; and provisions of the Constitution should not be
so narrowly interpreted as to enable offenders against the laws of a State
to find a permanent asylum in the territory of another State. Appleyard
v. Massachusetts, 203 U. S. 222.
A person, held in custody as a fugitive from justice under an extradition
warrant in proper form which shows upon its face all that is -required
by law to be shown as a prerequisite to its being issued, should not be
discharged unless it clearly and satisfactorily appears that he is not'a
fugitive from justice within the meaning of the Constitution and laws
of the United States.
Where the requisition is based on an indictment for a crime committed
on a certain day, without specifying any hour, the accused does not
overcome the prima facie tase by proof that he was not at the place of
the crime for a part of that day, the record not disclosing the hour of
the crime, and it appearing that the accused might have been at the
place named during a part of the day.
On writ of error to review a final judgment in habeas corpus proceedings

