OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

SHOENER v. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 161. Argued October 28, 1907.-Decided December, 2, 1907.
One is not put in jeopardy if the indictment under which he is tried is so
radically defective that it would not support a judgment of conviction,
and a judgment thereon would be arrested on motion.
Where the defense is that the accused is put in jeopardy for the same offense
by his trial under a former indictment, if it appears from th' record of that
trial that the accused had not then or previously committed, and could not
possibly have committed, any such crime as the one charged, and therefore
that the court was without jurisdiction to have rendered any valid judgment against him-the accused isnot, by such trial, put in second jeopardy for the offense specified in the last or new indictment.
Where a conviction for embezzlement has been reversed on the ground that
the money had not and could not be rightfully demanded when the indictment was found the accused is not put in second jeopardy by the trial on
another indictment for embezzlement after demand rightfully made.
216 Pa. St. 71, affirmed.

a civil action brought by the County of Schuylkill, Pennsylvania, in 1901, against Shoener, the present plaintiff, for
the amount of certain fees alleged to have been collected by
him, as the clerk of a Quarter Sessions Court, but withheld by
him from the county treasury, a judgment was rendered in
favor of the county for $18,245. That judgment was affirmed
upon appeal by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania on May 4th,
1903. Schuylkill County v. Shoener, 205 Pa. St. 592.
Shoener was'then proceeded against by indictment under
section 65 of the Penal Code of Pennsylvania of 1860, which
section is in these words: "If any State, county, township or
municipal officer of this Commonwealth, charged with the collection, safekeeping, transfer ot disbursement of public money,
shall convert to his own use, in any way whatsoever, or shall
use by way of investment in any kind of property or merchandise, any portion of the public money entrusted to him for
IN

SHOENER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

.collection, safekeeping, transfer or disbursement, or shall prove
a defaulter, or fail to pay over the same when thereunto legally
required by the State, county or township treasurer, or other
proper officer or person authorized to demand and receive the
same, every such act shall be deemed and adjudged to be an
embezzlement of so much of said money as shall be thus taken,
converted, in-vested, used or unaccounted for, which is hereby
declared a misdemeanor; and every such officer, and every
person or perbons whomsoever aiding or abetting, or being in
any way accessory to said act, and being thereof convicted,
shall be sentenced to an imprisonment, by separate or solitary
confinement at labor, not exceeding five years, and to pay a
fine equal to the amount of money embezzled." Pa. L. 1860,
385, 400.
This section was construed by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Commonwealth v. Mentzer, 162 Pa. St. 646, the court
holding that each of the acts enumerated i6 the statute was
a distinct and separate offense,. although they might be so entirely parts of the same transaction as to constitute but one
Offense; that whether particular acts were so combined as to
make one offense depended upon the facts in each case, and
raised a question of fact for the jury.
The indictment was returned November 14, 1903--the date
is important-and contained thirteen counts, those other than
the fourth,. eighth and twelfth counts in substance charging the accused with converting public funds to his own use,
and the fourth, eighth and twelfth counts charging him only
with failing to -pay over the public .moneys that came into his
hands, when thereunto legally required by the county. The
accused was acquitted January .6, 1904, on .all the counts
except the fourth, eighth and twelfth, and on those counts he
was convicted. On appeal to the Superior Court the conviction was sustained, 25 Pa. Superior Ct. 526, but on appeal from
that court to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania the judgments
of conviction in both the lower courts were reversed June 22,
1905, and the accused was discharged from the recognizance

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

which he had executed. Commonwealth v. Shoener, 212 Pa.', St.
527.
In the opinion of the Supreme Court it was stated that the
only demand ever made on the accused was in a letter to him
from the County Controller, under date of December 30, 1902.
But that demand, the court said, was made at a time when the
question of the right of the accused to retain the moneys he
had retained was, by agreement of the county, pending and
undecided in the civil court. The court, after observing that
it was competent for the county to have entered into such an
agreement, said (p. 531): "How could any demand have been
made at that time that the defendant was bound to heed? . . .
The failure to pay on demand, as contemplated by the statuteunder which he is indicted, is a failure to pay that which, at
the time the demand is made, clearly belongs to the county
making the demand, and does not apply to a case where demand is made to pay during the pendency of the dispute as to
who is entitled to the money, and which dispute, by the agreement of both parties to it, is pending determination in the
courts.

.

.

.

In refusing to pay over at the time the alleged

demand was made he did just what any other man, similarly
situated and with due regard to his rights, would have done;
and it is a perversion of the sixty-fifth section of the Act
of March 31, 1860, to attempt to apply it to a case like this.
The only evidence of a demand to pay over was the [Controller's] letter. This was written, and received by the appellant, at a time when the county, by its own agreement,
could not have enforced any civil liability against him, and in
refusing to comply with the notice to pay he was standing on
his right not to do so until it was determined that the county
was entitled to receive the money. The learned trial judge
charged the*jury that the institution of the suit in Common
Pleas of the county was a legal, demand for the payment of the'
money, and should be regarded as such demand in the prosecution of the appellant on the counts charging him with failure
to pay over on demand. In the civil courts constructive de-

. SHOENER v. PENNSYLVANIA,
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

mands may .be and are recognized, but not so in a criminal
court in the prosecution for an offense having .as one of its
statutory ingredients a refusal to pay on demand. A demand
there, mean$ actual. demand. The only actual demand that
the Commonwealth pretends to have made was the Controller's
letter. It was written after the institution of the civil suit and
after the distinct agreement by the county that the question
of the defendant's liability should be judicially determined.
Before being'so determined there was no liability to be enforced
against him civilly, and, therefore, no demand to be made upon
him that he was bound to recognize. He has been acquitted
on the counts charging him -with. a conversion of the public
-funds to his own use, and there was no etdence to sustain the
conviction on the charge that he had jailed to pay over 'after having
been thereunto legally requiredon demand made. The eleventh as-.
signment coinplains of the error of the court below in instructing the jury that. there had.been legal demand made upon the
defendant to pay over the fees. This assignment should have
been sustained. If there had been proper instructions as to.a
legal demand, the defendant would'have been acquitted on
the counts on which he was convicted. The remaining assignments need not be considered: The judgment of the Superior
Court is reversed, as is that of the court below, and the defendant is discharged from his recognizance."
Subsequently, on June 30, 1905, the county made 1.nother
and formal demand upon Shoener to pay over $7,243.28, that
being the balance of the fees -or moneys then retained by -him,
and ascertained, on auditing of his accounts, to belong to the
county. This demand was disregarded and, on September 4,
1905, the present new indictment was found, charging only
one of the offenses specified in the statute, namely, that the
accused had -failed, on demand, to pay into the county treasury
the above. sum of $7,243.28.
the present
The defendant pleaded, among other things: that
indictment was for the same offense as that specified in the first
indictment; that his acquittal on the first nine counts of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

former indictment Was an acquittal of the charge contained
in the present indictment, and that after the reversal of the
judgment of conviction on the fourth, eighth and twelfth counts
he could not be again prosecuted for the same offense.
Referring to the opinion of the Supreme Court in the former
prosecution, the trial court, in its charge to the jury, said:
"When that opinion was filed in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and subsequently here, and the. proceedings of the
previous trial were reversed, there was no crime that this defendant was called upon to answer for because the Supreme
Court declared that the demand that-had been made upon him
was illegal, had no right to be made, and he was not bound to
obey it, and therefore not bound to pay over the money when
they called on him in December, 1902, because the county had
no right to call on him then for this money, but they were
bound to wait until after the Supreme Court as well as this.
court decided the question of whether or not he had any claim
or right to that money.

.

.

.

Now, gentlemen of the jury,

under this state of facts, I come to the conclusion that there
was no crime to try when he was tried before; that the crime
that is now tried in this indictment exists only since the actual
demand was made, which the language of that Supreme Court
opinion requires to be made before he is required to pay over."
The defendant was convicted and sentenced to imprisonment
for two and a half years.
The judgment of conviction was affirmed (Commonwealth v.
Shoener, 30 Pa. Superior Ct. 321; 216 Pa. St. 71), the Supreme
Court saying (216'Pa. St. 80): "In support of his plea of autrelois acquit, the appellant relies upon our reversal of the former
judgment against him. The jury on the trial of the first indictment found him guilty of having failed to pay over the
license fees in his hands after demand had been made upon him
to do so. Our reversal of the judgment on that verdict did not
acquit him of the offense charged against him in the present
indictment. All that we decided was, that, as the county of
Schuylkill could not, at the time.the prosecution was instituted,

SHOENER v. PENNSYLVANIA.
207 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

have made a legal demand upon the appellant for the payment
of the fees in his hands, the statutory offense of failing to pay
over had not been committed. He was discharged from his recognizance simply because the prosecution against him had been
instituted before the offense charged against him was or could
have been committed under the admitted facts of the case. He was,
therefore, never in jeopardy. If, after his conviction, the court
below had arrested judgment on the verdict, he would have
been in the same situation in which our reversal of it placed
him,. but he-could not have pleaded the arrest of the judgment
as a bar to a new indictment against him for an offense subsequently committed, for he never was in peril.""
The plaintiff insists that his trial and conviction on the present indictment would subject him to jeopardy a second time
for the offense of having failed to pay over on proper demand,
thereby depriving him of his liberty without due process of
law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
Mr. William Wilhelm and Mr. E. B. Sherrill, with whom
Mr. Charles A. Douglas, was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
By his trial and c6nviction on the second indictment, plaintiff in error has been twice placed in jeopardy for the same
offense.
By long settled practice, as well as by express statutory enactment, the power of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania over
the decrees and judgments of inferior courts of the State is
plenary. Where error is committed the Supreme Court is not
compelled to remand the case to the lower court for a new trial,
but it is given power in such case to itself do what the trial
court should have done. This power is expressly conferred
by the act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania of May 20,
1901.
The power expressly conferred by this act had been exercised by the Supreme Court for many years prior to the passage
of the act. Drew v. Commonwealth, 1 Whart. 281; Daniels v.
VOL. ccvii-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court,

207 U. S.

Commonwealth, 7 Barr,. 371; Clellcns v. Commonwealth, 8 Pa.
St. 223; Beale v. Commonwealth, 25 Pa. St. 1.
The trial court should have directed a verdict for the defendant, but it having failed to do so, the Supreme Court, by yirtue
of the powers vested in it, proceeded to do what the trial court
should have done, and instead of remanding the case, reversed.
the judgment and directed the discharge of plaintiff in error, as
effectually disposing of the charge against plaintiff in error
as if he had been acquitted by the verdict of the jury on all
of the counts of the indictment.
The. crime of embezzlement with reference to this license
money was committed, if committed at all, prior to the finding
.of the indictrment in the first case, and as plaintiff in error was
acquitted in that case of the charge' of embezzling that money,
he cannot be tried in this case on the charge of embezzling the
same identical money, but is protected by the constitutional.
provision against double jeopardy. Bishop, Criminal Law,
Vol. 1, ยง 1042, et seq.; Shepherd v. People, 25 N. Y. 406.
The sentence under which plaintiff in error now rests puts
him twice in jeopardy for the same offense, and such double
jeopardy abridges his privileges and immunities as a citizen
of the United States and deprives him of his liberty without
due process of. law.
Due process. of lav requires the observance of those funda,mental principles of liberty and justice which 'lie at the base
of all our civil and political institutions.- In re Kemmler, 136
U. S.436; Allen v. Georgia, 166 U. S.138; Howard v. Kentucky,
200 U. S.164.
Mr. Guy E Farquhar and Mr. C. E. Berger, with whom
Mr. Irvin A. Reed, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after making the foregoing statement,
.delivered the opinion of the court.

The contention that, by the judgment of the Supreme;Court
of Pennsylvania, the plaintiff in error has been deprived of a

SHOENER v. PE NSYLVAN1A.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right secured to him by the Constitution of the United States
must be overruled. He has not been twice placed in jeopardy
for the same offense. Upon the hearing of the case arising out
of the first indictment the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
construing the statute under which the defendant was prosecuted, and looking at the undisputed facts appearing of record,
adjudged that he hadnot then committed any criminal offense;
'that he had not failed to pay over moneys belonging to the
county upon any demand, disregard of which subjected him
to criminal liability; consequently, it was held that no valid
judgment of conviction could have been rendered against him
in the first prosecution for failing to pay over the moneys in
question, or any part thereof, on the particular demand shown
in the record of that prosecution. These were questions of local
and general law which it was the province of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania to determine conclusively for the parties. They
presented no question of a Federal nature.
Assuming, then, that no valid judgment could have been
rendered against the accused upon the first indictment for disregarding the demand upon which that indictment was based,
it necessarily follows, as held by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, that that' prosecution did not put the accused in
jeopardy in respect of the particular offense specified in the
last indictment. That offense was never committed until the
demand of June 30, 1905 was disregarded. The defense of
double jeopardy could not-be sustained unless we should hold
that the charge against Shoener in the first indictment could
be sustained under the statute. But we cannot so adjudge
without disregarding altogether the decision of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania and without holding that an accused
.is put in peril by a prosecution which could not legally result
in a conviction for crime. It is an established rule that one is
not put in jeopardy if the indictment under which he is tried
is so radically defective that it would not support a judgment
of conviction,' and that a judgment thereon would be arrested
on motion. So where the defense is that the accused was put,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

in je6pardy for the same offense by his trial under a former indictment, if it appears from the .record of that trial that the

accused had not then or previously committed and could not
possibly have committed any such crime as the one charged,
And therefore that the court was without jurisdiction to have
rendered any valid judgment against him-and such is the
case now before us-then the accused was not, by such trial,
put in jeopardy for the offense specified in the last or new in.
dictment.
As it was thus correctly decided that the accused was not,
by the present indictment,, put in jeopardy for the second time
for the same offense, we need not go further or consider any
question of a Federal nature, and the writ of error must be disiissed.
It i8 so ordered.

CORTELYOU v. CHARLES ENEU JOHNSON & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 82. Argued October 31, Novomber 1,1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

In this case this court follows the unanimous opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals that defendant did not have sufficient notice of the license restriction to be charged with contributory infringment, even if that doctrine exists, for'selling ink to the vendee of a patented printing machine,
sold under a license restriction that it should be used only with ink made
by the patentee.
Where none of the executive officers of a manufacturing corporation knew
of the license restriction under which a patented machine was sold, notice to a salesman, who was not an Officer or general agent of the corporation,was held insufficient to chbrge the corporation with notice as to future
sales of the article manufactured by it to the licensee and used by the
latter in violation of the license restriction.
142 Fed. Rep. 933, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

