OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

that the errors assigned on that subject furnish no basis for
the exercise of our jurisdiction.
As the matters which we have considered dispose of all the
alleged Federal questions asserted -to come within the second
clause of § 35 of the act of April 12, 1900, the conclusion follows that we are without jurisdiction, and the writ of error is,
therefore,
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

TAYLOR v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. MACDONALD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Nos. 238, 404. Argued October 24, 25, 1907.-Decided November 18, 1907.
Even though one who makes it possible for an alien to land by omitting due
precautions to prevent it, may permit him to land within the meaning of
the penal clause of § 18 of the Immigration Act of March 3, 1903, 32 Stat.
1217, that section does not apply to the ordinary case of a sailor deserting while on shore leave.
This construction is reached both by the literal meaning of the expressions
"bringing to the United States" and "landing from such vessel" and
by a reasonable interpretation of the statute which will not be construed
as intending to altogether prohibit sailors from going ashore while the
vessel is in port.
The fact that an alien has been refused leave to land in the United States
and has been ordered to be deported does not make it impossible for the
master of a foreign vessel, bound to an American port, subsequently to
accept him as a sailor on the high seas.
Under the act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, .the United States can be
allowed a writ of error to the District Court quashing an indictment in
a criminal case. The act is directed to judgments rendered before the

TAYLOR v. UNITED STATES.
207 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

moment of jeopardy is reached and is not violative of the double jeopardy.
provisions of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
152 Fed. Rep. 1, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of § 18 of the Immigration Act of 1903, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William G. Choate and Mr. Lucius H. Beers for petitioner,
Taylor, in No. 238:
To sustain the conviction below it has been necessary to
give to the word "landing," as applied to a seaman, a special
and unusual meaning different from that in which it is used
when applied to alien passengers. Such a construction of this
statute is in palpable violation of the rule that penal statutes
should be strictly construed.
If there is a class of persons literally within the terms of this
immigration statute, but who for sufficient reasons cannot be
held subject to its obvious requirements (as in this instance
seamen who must leave the ship, on ship's duty, and virtually
must be allowed to leave the ship on shore leave), then the only
permissible conclusion is, not that the rule of the statute will
be modified as to them by giving it an entirely different meaning so as to reach them, but that they do not come within the
statute, because a thing may be within the letter of a statute
yet not within the statute, because not within its spirit, nor
within 'the intention of its makers. Holy Trinity Church v.
United States, 143 U. S. 457.
The Immigration Act of 1903 and its several provisions were
not intended to apply to bona fide seamen; and the general purpose of the statute of 1903 as a whole and of § 18 in particular
is not in harmony with the application of the statute to the
desertion of alien seamen, but the principal object is to deal
with alien passengers or alien immigrants, as indicated by the
title of the act. 'The title of an act can aid in construing a
doubtful provision. United States v. Fisher,2 Cranch, 358, 386;
United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610, 631; Myer v. Car Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, -1907.
Argument for the United States.

207 U. S.

102 U. S. 1, 12; Coosaw Mining Co. v. So. Carolina, 144 U. S.
550, 563.
The use of the word "alien" throughout the Immigration Act
of 1903 indicates that as it is used in § 18 it was not intended
to include bona fide seamen.
Immigration statutes prior to 1903 did not apply to bona
fide seamen, and it appears from the Congressional history of
the act of 1903 that Congress did not then intend to change
the law on that subject.
To hold 'that Congress intended to make § 18 apply to desertion of bona fide seamen involves attributing to Congress
the intention to hold a shipmaster responsible as a criminal
for failing to prevent the unavoidable, and the intention to
punish him for the act of another by which he himself is theimmediate sufferer.
Mr. Harrington Putnam for defendant in error, Macdonald,
in No. 404:
A writ of error does not lie in behalf of the United States,
from the judgment of the Circuit Court, in favor of the defendant in error.
Notwithstanding the distinction attempted to be taken in
the act of March 2, 1907, the constitutional safeguard to the
defendant extends equally to the case of-a decision upon a demurrer to the indictment as to a hearing and trial of the facts
by a jury. United States V. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310.
Repeated hearings by writs of error may prove as harassing
to a citizen, as if taken' after verdicts. Such an innovation in
the established criminal procedure of the United States deserves
to be closely scrutinized; otherwise a constitutional safeguard
may be gradually undermined, leaving a poor defendant to be
run down by the powerful and persistent action of the Government.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Cooley for the United States:
The facts proved fall within the letter of § 18 of the act of
March 3, 1903.

TAYLOR v. UNITED STATES.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

There is uncontradicted evidence to the effect, and the jury
found, that plaintiff in error failed to adopt due precautions
to prevent the landing of the alien from his vessel at a time or
place other than that designated by the immigration officers.
The legislative history of the act indicates that it was the
intenti6n of Congress to include all aliens within the provisions
of § 18 of the act of 1903 which was not a mere codification of
laws previously existing. The word "immigrant" was omitted
wherever it was found in the text of earlier acts for a deliberate
purpose.
A study of the various sections of the statute shows that
Congress intended to include something more than passengers
in using the words "alien" or "any alien."
The fact that the act retains the title of the former acts and
is called "An act to regulate the immigration of aliens into the
United States" is not inconsistent with the application of the
text to all aliens and even if it were, it could not override the
plain purpose of the text to refer to all such aliens.
MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

The first of these cases comes up on certiorari to review a
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, affirming a conviction of the petitioner under the Immigration Act of March 3, 1903, c. 1012, § 18, 32 Stat. 1213, 1217.1
That section makes it the duty of any pfficer in charge of any
1 SEC. 18. That it shall be the duty of the owners, officers and agents of
any vessel bringing an alien to the United States to adopt due precautions
to prevent the landing of any such alien from such vessel at any time or
place other than that designated by the immigration officers, and any such
owner, officer, agent, or person in charge of such vessel who shall land or
permit to land any alien at any time or place other than that designated
by the immigration officers, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall on conviction be punished by a fine for each alien so permitted to land
of not less than one hundred nor more than one thousand dollars, or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, and every such alien so landed shall be deemed to be unlawfully in the United States and shall be deported, as provided by law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

vessel bringing an alien to the United States to adopt due precautions to prevent the landing of such alien at any time or
place other than that designated by the immigration officers,
and punishes him if he lands or permits to land any alien at
any other time or place. The indictment was for willfully permitting an alien to land at another place. The evidence was
that the defendant was master of the Cunard Steamship "Slavonia," that the alien was an Austrian sailor who shipped as a
cook at Fiume, Hungary, for the round trip, not to be paid off
until he returned, and that on the evening of the day of arrival
at New York, after he had reported his work finished, he went
ashore intending to come back, but changed his mind. He
did not formally ask leave to go, but leave habitually ivas given
aid no additional precautions were taken when leave was
asked. The judge was requested to direct a verdict for the defendant and to instruct the jury that if the sailor intended to
return when he left the ship they must acquit, etc.; but he left
it to the jury to say whether the defendant had used reasonable
precautions, adverting to the fact that there were other desertions, and emphasizing the failure to enforce a rule requiring
the men to ask leave to go ashore. Exceptions were taken, but
the Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the judgment, as we
have said. 152 Fed. Rep. 1.
We assume for purposes of decision that one who makes it
possible .for an alien to land, by omitting due precautions to
prevent it, permits him to land within themeaning of the penal
clause in § 18. But we are of opinion that the section does not
apply to the ordinary case of a sailor deserting while on shore
leave, and that therefore the. judgment must be reversed. We
are led to this opinion by what seems to us the literal meaning
of the section and also by the construction that would be almost
necessary if the literal meaning seemed to us less plain.
The reasoning is not long. The phrase which qualifies the
whole section is, '.'bringing an alien to the United States." It
is only "such" officers of "such" vessels that are punished.
"Bringing to the United States," taken literally and nicely,

TAYLOR v. UNITED STATES.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

means, as a similar phrase in § 8 plainly means, transporting
with intent to leave in the United States and for the sake of
transport-not transporting with intent to carry back, and
merely as incident to employment on the instrument of transport. So again, literally, the later'words "to land" mean to go
ashore. To avoid certain inconveniences the Government and
the courts below say that sailors do not land unless they permanently leave the ship. But the single word is used for all,
cases and must mean the same thing for all, for sailors and
other aliens. It hardly can be supposed that a master would
be held justified under this section for allowing a leper to wander through the streets of New York on the ground that, as
he expected the passenger to return and his expectations had
been fulfilled, he could not be said to have allowed the leper to
land. The words must be taken in their literal sense. "Landing from such vessel" takes place and is complete the moment
the vessel is left and the shore reached. But it is necessary to
commerce, as all admit, that sailors should go ashore, and no
one believes that the statute intended altogether to prohibit
their doing so. The contrary always has been understood of
the earlier acts, in judicial decisions and executive practice.
If we reject the ambiguous interpretation of "to land," as we
have, the necessary result can be reached only by saying that
the section does not apply to sailors carried to an American
port with a bona fide intent to take them out again when the
ship gobs on, when not only there was no ground for supposing
that they were making the voyage a pretext to get here, desert
and get in, but there is no evidence that they were doing so in
fact. Whether this result is reached by the interpretation
of the words "bringing an alien to the United States," that has
been suggested, or on the ground that the statute. cannot have
intended its precautions to apply to the ordinary and necessary
landing of seamen, even if the words of the section embrace it,
as in Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States, 143 U. S. 457,
does not matter for this case. We think it superfluous to go
through all the sections of the act for confirmation of our opin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

ion. It is enough to say that we feel no doubt when we read
the act as a whole.
A reason for the construction adopted below was found in the
omission of the word "immigrant" which had followed "alien"
in the earlier acts. No doubt that may have been intended to
widen the reach of the statute, but we see no reason to suppose
that the omission meant to do more than to avoid the suggestion that no one was within the act who did not come here with
intent to remain. It is not necessary to regard the change as a
mere abbreviation, although the title of the statute is "An Act
to regulate the immigration of aliens into the United States."
Upon our construction of the statute we need not go further
into the particular circumstances. But we may add that even
on a different reading the jury was permitted to establish a
questionably high standard of conduct, if it be admitted, as
it was, that shore leave might be granted. No practicable
method of preventing sailors from occasionally yielding to
the seductions of an unduly prolonged stay on land was suggested or occurs to our mind.
In the second case the District Judge declined to follow the
decision in Taylor v. The United States, 152 Fed. Rep. 1, which
we have been considering, and quashed an indictment which
disclosed that the alien alleged to have been permitted unlawfully to land was a seaman. The United States brings a writ
of error under the Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246,
on the ground, it must be presumed, that the judgment was
based upon the construction of the statute. There are other
technical questions apparent on the record, but, if they are
open, the Government very properly has not pressed them,
but has confined itself to the question of law with which we
have dealt. There is an allegation in the indictment that the
alien was a stowaway under order of deportation, and there is
a suggestion that this raises a doubt if he was a bona fide seaman.* This is the only additional point raised.
But we perceive nothing in the fact that an alien has been
refused leave to land from a British ship and has been ordered

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY. v. WRIGHT.
.207 U. S.

Syllabus.

to be deported, to make it impossible as matter of law for the
British master subsequently to accept him as a sailor on the
high seas, even if bound for an American port. If the Government had wished to try the good faith of this particular transaction, and not simply to get a construction of the act, there was
no need to rely on the allegation mentioned alone. Of course
it is possible for a master unlawfully to permit an alien to land,
even if the alien is a sailor, and it was alleged that the master
did so. But we take the Government at its word.
The defendant argues that the United States cannot be allowed a writ of error in a criminal case like this. We do not
perceive the difficulty., No doubt of the power of Congress is
intimated in United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310. If the Fifth
Amendment has any bearing, the act of 1907 is directed to
judgments rendered before the moment of jeopardy is reached.
Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, 128. We think it unnecessary to discuss the question at length.
Judgment in No. 238 reversed.
Judgment in No. 404 affirmed.

CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v.
WRIGHT, COMPTROLLER-GENERAL OF GEORGIA.
GEORdIA RAILROAD AND BANKING COMPANY v.
SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
Nos. 85, 89.

Argued October 21, 22, 23, 1907.-Decided November 18, 1907

Due process of law requires that opportunity to be heard as to the.validity
of the tax and the amount of the assessment be given to a taxpayer, who,
without fraudulent intent and in the honest belief that it is not taxable,
withholds property from tax returns; and this requirement is not satisfied
where the taxpayer is allowed to attack the assessment only for fraud and
corruption.

