HUNTER v. PITTSBURGH.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

HUNTER v. CITY OF PITTSBURGH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 284.

Argued October 25, 28, 1907.-Decided November 18, 1907.

The policy, wisdom, justice and fairness of a state statute, and its conformity to the state constitution are wholly for the legislature and the
courts of the State to determine, and with those matters this court has
-nothing to do.
The Fifth Amendment to the Federal Constitution is not restrictive of state,
but only of national, action.
There is no contract, within the meaning of the contract clause of the ikederaI Constitution, between a municipality and its citizens and taxpayers
that the latter shall be taxed only for the uses of that corporation and not
for the uses of any like corporation with which it may be consolidated.
Municipal corporations are political subdivisions of the State, created by it
and at all times wholly under its legislative control; their charters, and the
laws conferring powers on them, do not constitute contracts with the
State within the contract clause of the Federal Constitution; nor are a
municipality and its citizens or taxpayers deprived of its or their property
without due process of law, nor is such property taken without compensation,by reason of any legislative action of the State in regard to the property held by such municipality for governmental purposes, or as to the
territorial area of such municipality, or the consolidation thereof with
another city, or the repeal or alteration of its charter.
The act of February 7, 1906 of Pennsylvania providing for the union of
contiguous municipalities, under which the cities of Pittsburgh and.Alle* gheny were consolidated, is not unconstitutional as depriving the City of
Allegheny or the citizens and taxpayers thereof of their property without
due process of law, or because it takes property without compensation or
because it impairs any contract between the City of Allegheny and the
State or the City of Allejheny and its citizens and taxpayers.

A LAW of the State of Pennsylvania (February 7, 1906),
provides for the union of cities, which are contiguous or in
close proximity, by the annexation of the lesber to the larger.
The parts of that law material to this :decision follow, Pennsylvania Laws, 1906, p. 7:
"SEC. 1. Be it enacted, etc., That wherever in this CommonVOL. CCVI-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement -of the Case.

207 U. S.

wealth, now or hereafter, two cities shall be contiguous or in,
close proximity to each other, the two, with any intervening
land other than, boroughs, may be united and become one by
annexing and consolidating the lesser city, and the intervening
land other than boroughs, if any, with the greater city, and thus
making one consolidated city, if at an election, to be held as
hereinafter provided, there shall be a majority of all the votes
cast in favor of such union.
"SEc. 2. The councils of either of said cities may by ordinance direct that a petition be filed in the court of quarter
sessions of the county in which said cities are situate, or two
per centum of the registered voters of either of said cities may
present their petition to said court, praying that the two cities,
and any intervening land other than boroughs, shall be united
and become one city. Thereupon the said petition shall be
filed; and the court shall fix a time for the -hearing thereof,
not more than twenty days thereafter, and direct that notice
be given to the mayor or chief executive officer of each of the
said cities, and the clerk of the councils of each of said cities,
and by publication in one or more newspapers published in
either of said cities, and such notice as the court may deem
proper, including notice to one or more of the officers of whatever may be the municipal subdivision of the State in which
any mtervening land other than boroughs may lie.
"SFc. 4. Any person interested may file exceptions to said
petition prior to the day fixed for hearing. At suchhearing
any person in interest shall be heard; but if the court shall
find that the petition and proceedings are regular and in confo'ntity with this act, it shall order an election to be heldin
such cities, to vote for or against the proposed consolidation,
at which all the legal voters of either of said cities, and of the
said intervening land, if any, shall be qualified to vote.
"SEc. 7. If it shall appear by the vote, when computed and
certified as [provided in-,section 6], that a majority of all the
lawful voters of the two cities and the intervening land, voting

HUNTER. v. PITTSBURGH.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

upon such question, have voted jn favor of the annexation or
consolidation, the said court of quarter sessions shall enter
a decree annexing and consolidating the lesser city, and any
intervening land other than boroughs, with the greater city,
so that they form but one city, and in. the name of the greater
or larger city;
"SEC. 8. Each of the constituent cities, and the intervening
land, if any, so consolidated, shall pay its own floating and
bonded indebtedness 'and liabilities of every kind, and the
interest thereon, as the same existed at the time of annexation; and the councils of the consolidated city shall levy, respectively, on the properties in each of the said cities and intervening land so consolidated, and as they existed at the time
of annexation, a tax sufficient to provide funds for each to
pay its own floating and bonded indebtedness and liabilities
and interest, as the same may accrue. The court of quarter
sessions is given jurisdiction to ascertain what the floating and
bonded indebtedness, and liabilities, and properties, and'assets,
of each of the said cities and the said intervening land may be;
due notice being given and an opportunity to be heard being
allowed, to all parties in interest.
"SFc. 9. All the citizens of each of the united cities and of
the intervening -land shall be entitled to,. and shall enjoy and
exercise, full rights of citizenship in the said enlarged and'con-'
solidated, city. All the rights of creditors and all liens, and all
the rights of the constituent cities and the government of the
intervening land, to enforce the payment of moneys due either,
or of contract liabilities, or of othef claims or rights of property,
existing in either city or in the government of the intervening
land at the time of annexation, shall be preserved unimpaired
to each; and each of the said cities and the government of the
intervening land, for the purpose of enforcing its rights and
claims in the .piemises, and also of having prior rights -and
claims enforced against it. shall be deemed in law to -continue
-in existence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

"Except as herein otherwise provided, all the property, real,
personal and mixed, and rights and privileges of every kind,
vested in or belonging to either of said cities or to the intervening land prior to and at the time of the annexation, shall be
vested in and owned by, the consolidated or united city;
"All moneys accruing, from time to time, from delinquent
taxes prior to the annexation, and all assessments against
private property for public improvements for which the contractors shall have been paid, shall be applied to the indebtedness of the city to which the same shall belong. In case
of annexation, the court may appoint commissioners to ascertain the floating and bonded indebtedness of each of the said
municipal subdivisions, at the time of annexation, including
the share of the municipal indebtedness for which any intervening land may be liable, and also an account of all'property,
of every kind, owned or claimed by the cities or the share of
the interyening land to any property owned by the municipal
subdivision of the State of which it is a part, prior to and at
the time of' annexation. The court may also order an account
to be taken by Ehe said commissioners of all moneys on-hand
or receivable, applicable to the payment of the floating or
bonded indebtedness of the respective municipalities or of
the intervening land, at the date of annexation. Such money
shall be, respectively, applied in payment of the floating or
bonded indebtedness of the respective municipalities or of
the intervening land;
*

*.

*

*

*

*

*

,

"After the commissioners have made report, the court shall,
by its decree, fix the said indebtedness and liabilities, and also
the properties and assets; of all kinds, at the time of the annexation belonging to each territiory united in the consolidation."
The City of Pittsburgh under the provision of this act filed
in the Court of Quarter Sessions of AlleghenyCounty a petition
asking for the union of the City of Allegheny with the City of

HUNTER v. PITTSBURGH.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Pittsburgh. The plaintiffs in error (except the City of Allegheny) seasonably filed exceptions to the petition under section 4 of the act. The.parts of the exceptions material here
are as follows:
"1st. That they are residents and citizens, voters, taxpayers
and owners of real estate and personal property, within the
City of Allegheny, County of Allegheny and State of Pennsylvania.
"4th. That the population of the City of Pittsburgh by the
census of 1900 was 321,616 and that it has now a population
of at least 350,000. That there were polled at the last mayoralty election in the said city, on February 20th, 1906, about
62,000 votes in round numbers.
"That the population of the City of Allegheny by the census
of. 1900 was 129,896, and that it is probably about 150,000 at
the present time; that there were polled at the. last mayoralty
election in the said city, on February 20th, 1906, about 24,000
votes, in round numbers.
"6th. The City of Allegheny has improved its streets, established its own system of electric lighting; and has established a satisfactory water supply. The City of Pittsburgh is
largely in debt;-has established large and extensive parks in
the eastern part of the city; built expensive and costly boulevards; extensive and costly reservoirs for the supply of water;
and is contemplating still greater expenditures of money in
the cutting down and grading of the elevation of Fifth Avenue,
known as the hump; and the construction of an extensive
filtration plant; and a large expenditure of money in the purchase of the Monongahela Water Company plant; a plant
owned by a private corporation; and the further expensive
construction of an electric light plant to be owned by the City
of Pittsburgh, the said city owning at the present time no light
plant, it being supplied with light from a private corporation;
and the further expenditure of various sums of money for the
acquirement of advantages and property which the citizens
of Allegheny now practically own and enjoy but which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

citizens of Pittsburgh do not, and to acquire which would
largely increase the indebtedness of the City of Pittsburgh,
and if the City of Allegheny should be annexed to the City of
Pittsburgh, the taxpayers of Allegheny, including your respondents, will, in addition to the payment of the taxes necessary to pay and liquidate their own indebtedness, have to
bear, and pay their proportion of the new indebtedness that
must necessarily be created to acquire the facilities, properties'
and improvements, herein stated, in Pittsburgh; all of which
would be of no benefit to the citizens and taxpayers of Allegheny, including your respondents who now own and possess
these advantages and privileges; and which will largely and
unnecessarily increase the taxes of your respondents, as well
as the taxes of'the other citizens of Allegheny, without any
material benefit to them whatever.
"12th. The Act of Assembly under which this petition is.
filed for the annexation of the.City of Allegheny to the City of
Pittsburgh is in conflict with Article I, section 9, paragrap 10,
of the Constitutiohr of the United States, in that it impairs
the obligations of the c6ntract-existihg between the City of
Allegheny aud your respondents, by which they are to be taxed
only for the governrhent of the City of Allegheny, and for improvements, repairs and expenditures incidental to the government of the said City of Allegheny, And the attempt to subject
them to the increased taxes and,'burdens of.an additional or
enlarged city government, by legislation, is in violation-of said
-Article ,I section 9, paragraph 10, of the Constitution of the
United States, and. therefore is unconstitutional
"13th. The Act of General Assembly under which this petition is filed, is in conflict with Article V of the amendments
of' the Constitution of the United States, because if the City of
Allegheny shall be annexed in pursuance of the petition filed.
in this case, it will be depriving your respondents of their
property without due process of law, and is therefore unconstitutional. Said annexation of the .City of Allegheny to the
City of Pittsburgh will add .additional taxes to the property

HUNTER v. PITTSBURGH.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Cae.

of your respondents, and create additional burdens without
compensation, and will depreciate the value of the property
of your respondents, and they, therefore, will be deprived of
their property, in violation of said Article V of the amendments
to the Constitution of the United States.
"14th. The Act of Assembly under which this petition is
filed is in conflict with Article XIV of the amendments to the
Constitution of the United States, because the said annexation
of the City of Allegheny to the City of Pittsburgh deprives
your respondents of their property without due process of law.
The additional taxes and burdens, which the property of your
respondents will have to bear in case the annexation takes
place will cause a large depreciation in the value of the property of your respondents.
"22nd. The Act of the General Assembly under which these
proceedings are had is in violation of the law of the land, it
being unfair, unjust and unequal; and is in conflict with the
rights and privileges reserved by the people to themselves,
in that it permits the qualified electors of the larger city to
overpower or outnumber those of the lesser city, and to annex
the lesser city without the vote or consent of a majority of
the qualified electors of the lesser city."
The City of Pittsburgh filed an answer to the exceptions,
admitting some of the allegations contained therein and denying others. As nothing turns here upon the answer it need
not 'be set forth. Thereupon there was a hearing in the case.
No evidence on the issues of fact raised by the exceptions and
the answer thereto was introduced, and no decision upon those
issues was made. The court "dismissed" the exceptions, and
ordered an election to be held as prayed for in the petition.
At the election a majority of all the voters of the two cities
voted in favor of the consolidation. It is agreed that the
majority of the voters of the City of Allegheny voted against
the consolidation, but that majority was overcome by a larger
majority of the voters of the City of Pittsburgh in favor of the
consolidation. The result of the election duly appearing to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

Court of Quarter Sessions, that court thereupon decreed that
the two cities should be consolidated. The case was then
taken by writ of error to the Superior Court of Pennsylvania,
and the error assigned was the dismissal of the exceptions.
In that court the City of Allegheny on its petition was perinitted "to intervene and become one of the appellants in said
proceedings." The Superior Court overruled the assignments
of error and affirmed the decree. Thereupon the same assignments of error were made in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, where the case was taken by writ of error. That court
dismissed the assignments of error, affirmed the decree and
refused a motion for rehearing. A writ of error was then al'lowed by a justice of this court. The assignments in. this
court are as follows:
"First. The Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania
erred in dismissing the fQurth assignment of error of the plaintiffs in error, which is as follows:
"'The Act of the General Assembly under which these proceedings are had, is in violation of the law of the land,, it being
unfair, unjust and unequal; and is in conflict with the rights
and privileges reserved by the people to themselves, in that it
permits the qualified electors of the larger city to overpower
and outnumber those of the lesser city, and to annex the lesser
city without the vote or consent of a majority of the qualified
electors of thelesser city.'
"Second. The Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania
erred in dismissing the -fifth assignment of error of the plaintiffs in error, which is as follows:
"'The Act of Assembly under which this petition is filed for
annexing of the City of Allegheny to. the City of Pittsburgh
is in conflict with Article I, section 9, paragraph 10, of the Constitution of the United States, in that it impairs the obliga•tions of the contract existing between the City of Allegheny
and 'your respondents, by which they are to be taxed only for
the government of the City of Allegheny and for improvements,
repairs and expenditures incidental. to the government of said
-

HUNTER v. PITTSBURGH.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

City of Allegheny, and the attempt to subject them -to the
increased taxes and burdens of an additional or enlarged city
government, by legislation, is in violation of Article I, section 9,
paragraph 10, of the Constitution of the United States, and
therefore is unconstitutional.'
"Third. The Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvani4
erred in dismissing the sixth assignment of error of the plaintiffs in error, which is as follows:
"'The Act of General Assembly under which this petition is
filed is in conflict with Article V of the amendments of the Constitution of the United States, because if the City of Allegheny
.shall be annexed in pursuance of the petition filed in this case
it will be depriving your respondents of their property without
due process of law, and is therefore unconstitutional. Said
annexation of the City of Allegheny to the City of Pittsburgh
will add additional taxes to the property of your respondents,
and create additional burdens without compensation, and will
depreciate the sale of the property, in violation of said Article V of the amendments to the Constitution of the United
States, and they, therefore, will be deprived of their property.'
"Fourth. The Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania
erred indismissing the seventh assignment of error of the plaintiffs in error, which is as follows:
"'The Act of Assembly unaer which this petition is filed is
in conflict with Article XIV of the amendments to the Constitution of the United States, because the said annexation
of the City of Allegheny to the City of Pittsburgh deprives
your respondents of their property without due process of law.
The additional taxes and burdens which the property of your
respondents will have to bear in case the annexation takei
place will cause a large depreciation in value of the property
of your respondents.'
"Fifth. The Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania
erred in not holding that the Act of the General Assembly of
Pennsylvania, apprcved February 7, A. D. 1906, entitled 'An

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

act to enable cities that are now, or may hereafter be, contiguous or in close proximity, to be united, with any intervening
land other than boroughs, in one municipality; providing for
the consequences of such consolidation, the temporary government of the consolidated city, payment of the indebtedness
of each of the united territories, and the enforcement of debts
and claims due to and from each,' was special or local legislation, and in conflict with Article 3, section 7, subdivision 2,
of the constitution of the State of Pennsylvania, which constitutional provision provides that 'The General Assembly
shall not pass any local or special law, regulating the affairs of
counties, cities, townships, wards, boroughs, or school districts,'
and the said Act of Assembly being in conflict with said provision of the constitution of the State of Pennsylvania, is not
due process of law, and therefore is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
"Sixth. The Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania
erred in not holding that the said Act of Assembly, entitled
as asforesaid, was passed at an extraordinary or special session
of the legislature, convened, by the Governor of Pennsylvania
under Article 4, section 12, of the constitution of Pennsylvania,
which provides that the Governor may, on extraordinary
occasions, convene the General Assembly; and that the subject of the said legislation or Act of Assembly, aforesaid, was
not designated in the proclamation of the Governor calling
such a session, or in the paper or prbclamation issued by him
dated January 9, 1906, and is therefore in conflict with Article 3,
section 25, of the constitution of Pennsylvania, which provides that 'When the General Assembly shall be convened
in special session, there shall be no legislation upon subjects
other than those designated in the proclamation of the Governor calling such session,' and that the said Act of Assembly
is, by reason thereof, not due process of law, and is in conflict
with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States.
"Seventh. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania erred in

HUNTER v. PITTSBURGH.
207 U. S.

Argument 'for Plaintiffs in Error.

dismissing tho exceptions filed by the plaintiffs in error, thereby
confirming the judgment of the court below.
"Eighth. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania erred in not
entering judgment in favor of the plaintiffs in error and not
reversing the judgment of the court below."
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. William A. Stone' for plaintiffs in error:
The law in question herein is not just, fair or reasonabl
The courts and not the legislature must determine whether
the law is reasonable, and if it be unreasonable it is not due
process of law. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S, 466; Cotting v.
Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79.
The scheme, or trick, of the law is apparent. As it was expected by the framers of the law that Allegheny would vote
against consolidation, they determined to neutralize the vote
of Allegheny by the larger vote of Pittsburgh. The law gave
them a vote, but by a scheme which destroyed it. Legislation
which thus destroys the vote it allows is not fair, just and
reasonable. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Capen v.
Foster, 12 Pick. 488; People v. Solomon, 51 Ills. Sup. Ct. Rep. 37.
The law in controversy is one providing for the consolidation of two cities, or the annexation"of the lesser to the larger
city, by the majority vote of the two cities. The larger city
was almost unanimously in favor of annexing the smaller.
The smaller city was almost as strongly opposed to such annexation. Under the color of giving the citizens affected a
Vote to determine the question a scheme was adopted and put
into the law, which restrained te right to determine such by
vote.
It is not usual to consolidate cities in this way, and such
bas not been the practice in Pennsylvania. The method provided by this statute, is not the usual way in that State and is
not due process of law.
We find in Pennsylvania no precedent for this law. On
the contrary, whenever consolidation has been effected by a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

207 U. S.

vote of the people, each municipality has been given a separate
vote, which separate vote if against consolidation, determined
that the municipality so voting against consolidation should
not be included in .the scheme.
The question for this court here to determine is, not whether,
Pittsburgh and Allegheny ought to be consolidated; not whether
the legislature has the power to consolidate them by an Act of
Assembly; but whether the method adopted in the act in controversy is reasonable, usual, customary and just.
The act in question is not "due process of law," and, therefore, is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, because
it limits the power and jurisdiction of the courts simply to
an inquiry whether the petition and. the proceedings filed are
regular and in conformity therewith.
The record also presents a case in which the City of Alle-.
gheny, being possessed of valuable property, which by its
charter was vested in it for the use and benefit of its citizens
forever, has been stripped of its property for the benefit of the*
City of Pittsburgh.
The fact that the City of Pittsburgh presented the petition
for consolidation, and that such petition was opposed by the
City of Allegheny from the outset, is inconsistent wjth the idea,
appearing so often in the brief of defendant in error, to the
effect that the latter city is the one benefited by the consolidation.
A municipal corporation may have rights of property vested
in it for the benefit of its citizens of which it cannot be deprived
without due process of law, without violating the Federal
protection accorded to contracts.
The water and electric plants as well as other property
which belongs to the City of Allegheny were held by it under
the protection of the Federal Constitution. New Orleans v.
Water Works Co., 142 U. S. 91; Powers v. Detroit &c. R. R.
Co., 201 U. S. 543; Grahamv. Folsom, 200 U. S. 248.
In the present case the charter is not amended, nor changed,
nor revoked, but one city, without its consent, with all of its

HUNTER .v. PITTSBURGH.
207 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

property, is legislated into the greater city.. While the legislature might amend, and perhaps revoke the charter of Allegheny, it could not pass the property of Allegheny over to
Pittsburgh by law, as was attempted. New Orleans v. Water
Works Co., 142 U. S. 91; Broome v. Furner, 176 Massachusetts,
9; Powers v. Detroit &c. R. R. Co., 201 U. S.54-2
-Mr.. W. B. Rodgers and Mr. D. T. Watson, with whom
Mr. J. Rodgers McCreery and Mr. John M. Freeman were on
the brief, for defendant in error:
A city is nothing but a municipal corporation of the State,
made by the State for the purpose of administering and governing a certain locality. There is no contract relation between
the city and the State; as the State made, she can destroy or
take away, and the law of Pennsylvania, and indeed the decisions of this court show, that the State may add to a city,
-may take away from a city, may merge a city or a borough or
two cities, or two townships, or two boroughs, and this without
any intervention of the voters and even against the wishes of
the majority of the 'vot6rs within the territorial limits. As the
State has the absolute power to do this, to merge or take away
a charter. or to add additional territory, or takeit away it
may select, at- its own option, the plan under which it will
be carried .out, and the voters of the district have-no voice
whatever in the determination of that question, unless the
State sees fit to delegate the same -to them.
If the State has the absolute power to annex one city to
another without consulting the people of either city, how is it
possible to say that it cannot do so when a majority of all the
people in the proposed greater city hre in favor of it,' simply
because a majority of such people in either city oppose it?
That majority could not prevent the State from acting.
How the question of merger between two cities shall be leftto be determined by a majority of the voters of the lesser city
is certainly something new in municipal law, and is wholly unsupported by any decided case that we have any knowledge of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

How, and under what circumstances a merger of two or
more municipalities shall take place is for the State and the
State alone to determine, and the question is purely legislative
and not judicial, and before any claim can be made that the
legislation is not due process of law, the facts must be shown
to demonstrate that it deprives someone of life, liberty or
property. State of Ohio v. Cincinnati,52 Ohio St. 419; Cooley
on Congtitutional Limitations (6th Ed.), 228; Mount Pleasant
v. Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514, 531.
The creation and consolidation of municipal corporations,
the determination of their boundaries and the administration
of their internal affairs, are matters peculiarly within the
jurisdiction of the State. These are questions upon which the
determination of the state authorities will be accepted by the
Federal courts as authoritative and controlling. Forsyth v.
Hammond, 166 U. S. 506, 518; Williams v. Eggleston, 170 U. S.
304; Kelly v. Pittsburgh, 104 U. S. 78, 81; Wilson v. North
Carolina, 169 U. S. 586, 593; Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111
U. S. 400, 410; Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514;
Laramie County v. Albany Co., 92 U. S. 307; Covington v.
Kentucky, 173 U. S. 231.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY, after making the foregoing statement
of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error seek a reversal of the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, which affirmed a decree
of a lower court, directing the consolidation of the cities of
Pittsburgh and Allegheny. This decree was entered by authority of an act of the General Assembly of that State, after
proceedings taken in conformity with its requirements. The
act authorized the consolidation of two cities, situated with
reference to each other as Pittsburgh and Allegheny are, if
upon an election the majority of the votes cast in the territory
comprised within the limits of both cities favor the consolidation, even though, as happened in this instance, a majority

HUNTER v. PITTSBURGH.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the votes cast in one of the cities oppose it. The procedure
prescribed by the act is that after a petition filed by one of
the cities in the Court of Quarter Sessions, and a hearing upon
that petition, that court, if the petition and proceedings are
*found to be regular and in conformity with the act, "shall order
an election. If the election shows a majority of the votes cast
to be in favor of the .consolidation, the court "shall enter
a decree annexing and consolidating the lesser city
with the greater city." The act provid'es, ii considerable detail, for the effect of the consolidation upon the debts, obligations, claims and property of the conqtituent cities; grants
rights of citizenship to the citizens of those cities in the consolidated city; enacts that "except as herein otherwise provided, all the property

.

.

.

and rights and privileges

vested in or belonging to either of said cities
prior to or at the time of the annexation, shall be vested in
and owned by the consolidated or united city," and establishes
the form of government of the new city. This pr'cedure wag
followed by the"filing of a petition by the City of Pittsburgh;
by an-election in which the majority of allthe vqtes cat were
in the affirmativq, although the majority of -all the vote cast
by the voters of Allegheny were in the negative, and by a decree of the court uniting the two cities.
Prior to the hearing upon the petition the plaintiffs in error,
who were citizens, voters, owners of property and taxpayers
in Allegheny, filed twenty-two exceptions. to the .petition.
These exceptions were dispqsed of adversely to the exceptants
-by the Court of Quarter Sessions, and the action, of -that court..
was successively affirmed by the Superior and Supreme courts
of the State.' The case is here upon writ -of error- and the assignment of errors alleges that eight errors were committed bythe Supreme Court of the State. This assignment Qf errors is
founded upon the dispositions by the state courts of the questions duly raised, by the filing of the exceptions under the
provisions of the Act of the Assembly.
The defendants in error- moved to dismiss the case because

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

no Federal question was raised in the court below or by the
assignments of error, or, if any Federal question was raised,
because it was frivolous. This motion must be overruled.
The plaintiffs in error claimed that the Act of Assembly was
in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and
specially set up and claimed in the court below rights under
several sections of that Constitution, and all their claims were
denied by that court. These rights were claimed in the clearest
possible words, and the sections of the Constitution relied upon
were specifically named. The questions raised by, the denial
of these claims are not so unsubstantial and devoid of all color
of merit that we are warranted in dismissing the case without
consideration of their merits.
Some part of the assignments of error and of the arguments
in support of them may be quickly disposed of by the application of well-settled principles. We have nothing to dQ with
the policy, wisdom, justice or fairness of the act under consideration; those questions are for the consideration of those
to Whom the State has entrusted its legislative power, and
their determination of them is not subject to review or criticism by this court. We have nothing to do with the interpretation of the constitution of the State and the conformity of
the enactment of the Assembly to that constitution; those
questions are for the consideration of the courts of the State,
and their decision of them is final. The Fifth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States is not restrictive of state,
but only of national, action.
After thus eliminating all questions with which we have no
lawful concern, there remain tWb questions which are within
our jurisdiction. There were two claims of rights under the
Constitution of the United States which were clearly made in
the court below and as clearly denied. They appear in the
second and fourth assignments of error. Briefly stated, the
assertion in the second assignment of error is that the Act of
Assembly impairs the obligation of a contract existing between
the City of Allegheny and the plaintiffs in error, that the latter

HUNTER v. PITTSBURGH.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are to be taxed only for the governmental purposes of that city,
and that the, legislative attempt to subject them -to the taxes
of the enlarged city violates Article I, section 9, paragraph 10,
of the Constitution of the United States. This assignment does
not rest upon the theory that the charter of the city is a contract with the State, a proposition frequently denied by this
and other courts. It rests upon the novel proposition that
there is a contract between the citizens and taxpayers of a
municipal corporation and the corporation itself, that the
citizens and taxpayers shall be taxed only for the uses of that
corporation, and shall not be taxed for the uses of any like
corporation with which it may be consolidated. It is not said
that the City of Allegheny expressly made any such extraordinary contract, but only that the contract. arises out of the
relation of the parties to each other. It is difficult to deal
with a proposition of this kind except by saying that it is' not
true. No authority or reason in support of it has been offered
to us, and it is utterly inconsistent with the nature of municipal corporations, the purposes for which they are created, and
the relation they bear to those who dwell and own property
within their limits. This assignment of error is overruled.
Briefly stated, the assertion in the fourth assignment of
error is that the Act of Assembly deprives the plaintiffs in error
of their property without due process of law, by subjecting
it to the burden of the additional taxation which would result
from the consolidation. The manner in which the right of
due process of law has been violated, as set forth in the first
assignment of error and insisted upon in argument, is that the
method of voting on the consolidation prescribed in the act
has permitted the voters of the larger city to overpower the
voters of the smaller city, and compel the 'union without their
consent and against their protest. The precise question thus
presented has not been determined by this court. It is important, and, as we have said, not so devoid of merit as to be
.denied consideration, although its solution by principles long
settled and constaptly acted upon is not difficult. This court
. VOL. ccv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. B.

has many times had occasion to consider and decide the nature
of municipal corporations, their rights and duties, and the
rights of their citizens and cr.editQrs. Maryland.v. Balt. &
Ohio Railroad, 3 How. 534, 550; East Hartford v. Hartford
Bridge Company, 10 How. 511, 533, 534, 536; United States v.
Railroad Company, 17 Wall. 322, 329; Laramie County v.
Albany County, 92 U. S. 307, 308, 310312; Commissioners v.
Lucas, 93 U. S. 108, 114; New Orleans v. Clark, 95 U. S. 644,
654; Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith, 100 U. S. 514, 524, 525, 531,
532; Meriwether v. Garrett, 102 U. S.472, 511; Kelly v. Pittsburgh, 104 U. S. 78, 80; Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U.S. 506, 518;
Williams v.Eggleston, 170 U. S. 304, 310; Covington v. Kentucky, 173 U. S. 231, 241; Worcester v. Worcester Street Railway
Company, 106 U. S. 539, 549; Kies v. Lowrey, 199 U. S. 233.
It would be unnecessary and unprofitable to analyze these
.decisions or quote from the opinions rendered. We think the,
following principles have been established by them and have
become settled doctrines of this court, to be acted upon wherever they are applicable.. Municipal corporations, are political,
subdivisions of the State, created as convenient agencies for.
exercising such of the governmental powers of the State as
:may be entrusted to them. For the purpose of executing these
l wers ij,'uperly and efficiently they usually are given the
power to acquire, hold, and manage personal and real property.
The number, nature and duration of the powers conferred upon
these corporations-and the territory over which they shall be
exercised rests in the absolute discretion of the State. Neither
their cnarters, nor any law conferring governmental powers,
or vesting in'them property to be used for governmental pur.poses," or authorizing them to hold or,manage such property;
or exempting theim from taxation upon it, constitutes' a con.tract with the State within the meaning of the Federal Constitution. The State, therefore, at its pleasire may modify
or withdraw all such power , may take without compensation
such property, hold it itself, or vest it in other agencies, expand or contract the territorial area, unite the whole or a part

HUNTER v PITTSBURG19
207 U.S.

179

Opinion of the Court.

of itwith another municipality, repeal the charter and destroy
the 'corporation. All this may be done, conditionally or unconditionally, with or without the consent of. the citizens, or
even- against their protest. In all these respects the State is
supreme, and its legislative body, conforming its action to
the state constitution', may do as it will, unrestrained by any
provision of the Constitution of the United States. Although
the inhabitants and property owners may by such changes
suffer inconvenience, and their property rlay be lessened in
value by the burden of increased taxation, -or for any other
reason, they have no right by contract or otherwise in the unaltered or cofitinued existence of the corporation or its powers,
and there is nothing in the Federal Constitution which protects them from these injurious consequences: The power is
in the State and those who legislate for the State are alond
responsible for any unjust or oppressive exercise of it.
Applying these principles to the case at bar, it follows irresistibly that this assignment of error, so far as it relates to the
citizens who are plaintiffs in error, must be overruled.
It will be observed that in describing the ab'solute power of
the State over the property of municipal corporationswe have
not extended it beyond the property held and used foi governmental purposes. Such corporations are sometimes authorized
to hold and do hold property for the same puiposes that property is held by private corporations or individuals. The distinction between property owned by municipal .corporations
in their public and goyernmental capacity and that owned by
them in their private capacity, though difficult to define, has
been approved by many of the state courts (1 Dillon, Municipal Corporations' 4th "ed., sections 66 to 66a, inclusive, and
cases cited in note to 48 L. R. A. 465), and it has been held
that as to the latter class of property the legislature is not
.omnipotent. -If the distinction is recognized it suggests the
question whether property of a municipal corporation owned
in its private and proprietary capacity may be taken from
it against its will and without compensation. Mr. Dillon

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

says truly that the question has never arisen directly for adjudication in this court. But it and the distinction upon
which it is based has several times been noticed. Commissioners v. Lucas, 93 U. S. 108, 115; Meriwether v. Garrett,
102 U. S. 472, 518, 530; Essex Board v. Skinkle, 140 U. S. 334,
342; New Orleans v. Water Works Co., 142 U. S.79,,91; Covington v. Kentucky, 173 U. S. 231, 240; Worcester v. Street
Railway Co., 196 U. S. 539, 551; Monterey v. Jacks,'203 U. S.

360. Counsel for plaintiffs in errdr assert that the City of Allegheny was the owner of property held in its private and proprietary capacity, and insist' that the effect of the proceedings
under this act was to take its property without compensation
and vest it in another corporation, and that thereby the city
was deprived of its. property without due process of law in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. But no, such question is presented by the record, and there is but a vague suggestion of facts upon which it might have been founded. In
the sixth exception there is a recital of facts with a purpose of
showing how the- taxes of the citizens of Allegheny would be
increased by annexation to Pittsburgh. In that connection
it is alleged that while Pittsburgh intends to spend large sums
of money in the purchase of the water plant of a private company and for the construction of, an electric light plant, Allegheny "has improved its streets, established its own sytem of
electric lighting, and established a satisfactory water supply."
This is the only reference in the record to the property rights
of Allegheny, and it falls far short of a statement that that city
holds any property in its private and proprietary capacity.
Nor was there any allegation that Allegheny had been deprived
of its property without due process of law. The only allegation
of this kind is that the taxpayers, plaintiffs in error, were deprived of their property without due process of law because of
the increased taxation which would result from the annexation-an entirely different proposition. Nor is the situation
varied by the fact that, in the Superior Court, Allegheny was
"permitted to intervene and become one of the appellants."

WEBSTER COAL CO. v. CASSATT.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

The city made no new allegations and raised no newquestions,
but was content to rest upon the record as it was made up.
Moreover, no question of the effect of the act upon private
property rights of the City of Allegheny was considered in the
opinions in the state courts or suggested by assignment of
errors in this court. The question is entirely outside of the
record and has no connection with any question which is
raised in the record. For these reasons we are without jurisdiction to consider it, Dewey v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193;
Hard*,g v. Illinois, 196 U. S. 78, and neither express nor intimate any opinion upon it.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

WEBSTER COAL AND COKE COMPANY v. CASSATT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.
No. 283.

Argued October 28, 29, 1907.-Decided December 2, 1907.

An order of the Circuit Court under § 724, Rev. Stat., adjudging and decreeing that certain officers of the defendant corporation produce books
and papers, held to be an interlocutory order in the suit and not a final
order as against the individuals, and, therefore, not reviewable at their
instance, on writ of error, by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
150 Fed. Rep. 48, reversed.

Webster Coal and Coke Company commenced an action at law in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, defendant, to recover damages for its
alleged violation of the Interstate Commerce Act of February 4, 1887, by discriminating against plaintiff in the allowance
of freight rates on coal and coke. The defendant pleaded not
guilty.
THE

