OCTOBER TERM, J907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

the tax laws of a State, we are constrained to the conclusion
that this system does not afford that due process of law which
adjudges upon notice and opportunity to be heard, which it
was the intention of the Fourteenth Amendment to protect
against impairment by state action.
The judgments of the Supreme Court of Georgia are reversed
and the cases remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 22.

Argued October 17, 18, 1907.-Decided November 18. 1907.

This court has jurisdiction to review the judgment on writ of error under
§ 709, Rev. Stat., if the opinion of the highest court of the State clearly
shows that the Federal question was assumed to be in issue, was decided
adversely, and the decision was essential to the judgment rendered.
The right to sue and defend in the courts of the States is one of the privileges
and immunities comprehended by § 2 of Art. IV of the Constitution of
the United States, and equality of treatment in regard thereto does not
depend upon comity between the States, but is granted and protected
by that provision in the Constitution; subject, however, to the restrictions
of that instrument that the limitations imposed by a State must operate
in the same way on its own citizens and on those of other States. The
State's own policy may determine the jurisdiction of its courts and the
character of the controversies which shall be heard therein.
The statute of Ohio of 1902 providing that no action can be maintained in
the courts of that State for wrongful death occurring in another State except where the deceased was a citizen of Ohio, the restriction operating
equally upon representatives of the deceased whether they are citizens of
Ohio or of other States, does not violate the privilege and immunity provision of the Federal Constitution.
73 Ohio St. 1, affirmed.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Charles Koonce, Jr., with whom Mr. R. B. Murray
and Mr. W. S. Anderson were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The right to maintain a transitory action by a citizen of
one of the States of the United States, in the courts of a sister
State, is one of the privileges and immunities comprehended
by § 2 of Art. IV of the Constiution of the United States. Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371-380; Ward v. Maryland, 12
Wall. 418, 430; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.107-114; Blake
v. McClung, "172 U. S. 239-256; Moredock v. Kirby, 118 Fed.
Rep. 180-182; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168-180; Cofrode
v. Gartner, 79 Michigan, 332-343; Railroad Co. v. Hendricks,
41 Indiana, 48; Schell v. Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co., 26
0. C. C. Reps. 209; State v. Cadigan, 73 Vermont, 245; Hoadley v. Insurance Commissioners, 37 Florida, 564; S. C., 33 L.
R. A. 388; Roby v. Smith, 131 Indiana, 342; Shirk v. Lafayette
52 Fed. Rep. 857; Farmers' &c. Co. v. Railroad Co., 27 Fed.
Rep. 146; State v. Duckworth, 5 Idaho, 642; S.C., 39 L. R. A. 365.
While the doctrine of comity with referenice to the maintenance of an action applies as between the citizens of different
nations, and between the citizens of foreign nations and the
several States of the United States, it is not the foundation
upon which the citizens of the several States rest their right
in invoking the courts of sister States. The foundation of that
right is the privilege and immunity provision of the Federal
Constitution and it is not within the power of either legislature
or court to annul a constitutional right on the pretended theory
that the right exists only in comity and is.subject to the rules
and principles governing comity rather than those which control constitutional guarantees.
The statute is not saved by the holding of the Supreme Court
of Ohio that non-resident next of kin have equal rights, and
the courts of Ohio are equally open to them, as to resident next
of kin, provided only that the person whose wrongful death is
the subject of action, was at the time of his death a citizen of
Ohio.
The real, purpose and effect of the act, as construed, was and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907..
Argument for Defendant in Error.

207 U. S.

is to discriminate in favor of citizens of Ohio and against citizens of other States. Theoretical exceptions cannot save it
from the ban of the constitutional provision herein in question.
The statute, as construed, is a denial of the right of the
citizens of a sister State to have the cause of action resulting
from the wrongful act enforced in favor of hit wife and children.
The State of Ohio cannot forbid citizens of other States from
suing in its courts, that right being enjoyed by its own people.
E ingartner v. Steel Company, 94 Wisconsin, 70-78; Blake v.
McClung, 172 U. S. 239-256.
In order that the statement that it is against the public
policy of the State of Ohio to' enforce in its courts a cause of
action in favor of a citizen of another State can avail, it must
first appear that it would be against the public policy of said
State to enforce a like cause of action in favor of a citizen of
its own State, or a like cause of action arising in its own State.
'The only qualification which, can be attached to the right of
such 'non-resident to maintain his action in the courts of a
sister State is that the character of the cause of action must
not be against the actual public policy of the State. And, to
justify a court in refusing to enforce a right of action accruing
under the laws of another State because against the policy of
the laws of the forum, it must appear that it is against good
morals or natural justice. Huntington v. Attrill, 146:TY.:S. 657,
and cases there cited; Stewdrt v. B. & 0. R. R.Co., 168 U. S. 445;
Railroad Co. v. Rouse, 178 Illinois, 132; Railroad Company v.
Babcock,. 154 U. S. 190; Law v. RailroadCompany, 91 Fed. Rep.
817; Davidow v. Railroad Company, 85 Fed. Rep. 193; Van
Dorn v. Railroad Company, 35 C. C. A. 282; Wilson v:TIaootle,
55 Fed. Rep. 211; Walsh v. Railroad Company, 160 Massachusetts, 571; Burns v. RailroadCompany, 113 Indiana, 169.
Mr. George F. Arrel, with whom Mr. James P. Wilsbn and
Mr. John G.Wilson were on the brief, for defendant in error:
This statute creates no discrimination between the citizens
of Ohio and citizens of any other State. Under its provisions

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

it is only essential to the maintenance of the action to enforce
the right in the courts of Ohio, that the decedent shall have
been, at the time of his death, a citizen of Ohio. If the beneficiary under the statute of the State, giving the right, and in
which the wrongful act took place, and the death resulted,
happens to be a citizen of Ohio, the right secured by the statute could not be enforced in the courts of Ohio.
Unless an act of the state legislature in fact, and in some
way discriminates as to the right in question between its citizens and citizens: of another State, such act does not offend
against this provision in the Federal Constitution. Paul v.
Virginia, 8 Wall. 180; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
True, the right to maintain the action in the courts of Ohio
is made to depend in part upon the fact that the decedent at
the time of his Wrongful death was a citizen of Ohio, but such
fact does not in any wise tend to show discrimination between
or among beneficiaries, no matter where they may reside, or
of what State or States they may be citizens. The act is open
to no constitutional objection on the ground that it provides
that an action may be maintained in the courts of Ohio for
the wrongful death of one of its citizens, if the statutory law
of the State in which he came to his death by wrongful act gives
a right of such action. In other words, the act is free from objection in so far as it relates to the death of a citizen of Ohio.
It is only objectionable, if at all, when applied to the maintenance of an action in the courts of Ohio for the wrongful
death of a citizen of another State. It cannot be possible that
by this provision of the Federal. Constitution, the legislature
of Ohio is inhibited from providing that where a citizen of
another State meets his death by wrongful act in the State of
which he is a citizen, that an action to recover compensation
for his death cannot be maintained in the courts of Ohio.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio herein clearly
determines and establishes the public policy of the State of
Ohio upon this subject, and this public policy, so determined
and established, is clearly the ,esult not only of legislative
VOL. ccVII-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

enactment, but of judicial decision. This is clearly a subject
upon which a State by its legislative and judicial departments
may establish its own public policy. Texas & PacificRy. Co. v.
Cox, 145 U. S. 829; Stewart's Admr. v: B. & 0. R. R. Co., 168
U. S. 445.
If, then, a foreign statute may not be enforced in a State
whose policy is directly opposed to the policy of the State
wherein the death occurred, under the doctrine of the Stewart
case and other cases in this Supreme Court, no privilege or
immunity has been denied to this citizen of the State of Pennsylvania.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error directed to the Supreme Court of the
State of Ohio. The plaintiff in error is the widow of Henry E.
Chambers, who, while in the employ of the defendant in error
as a locomotive engineer and engaged in the performance of
his duty, received injuries from which he shortly afterwards
died. Both husband and wife were at the time of the injuries
and death citizens of Pennsylvania, and the wife has since
continued to be such. The injuries and death occurred in
Pennsylvania. The widow brought an action, in the Court of
Common Pleas of the State of Ohio, against the defendant
railroad, alleging that the injuries were caused by its negligence.
In that action she sought to recover damages under certain
paits of the Constitution and laws of Pennsylvania printed
in the margin,1 which provided for the recovery of damages
1Sections 18 and 19 of the act of April 15, 1851, are as follows, Pennsylvania Laws, 1851, p. 674: "SEC. 18. No action hereafter brought to recover damages for injuries to the person by negligence or default, shall
abate by reason of the death of the plaintiff; but the personal representatives
of the deceased may be substituted as plaintiff, and prosecute the suit to
final judgment and satisfaction. SEC. 19. Whenever death shall be occasioned by unlawful violence or negligence, and no suit for damages be
brought by the. party injured, during his or her life, the widow of any such
deceased, or if there be no widow, the personal representatives, may maintain an action for and recover damages for the death thus occasioned."

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for death. The plaintiff had a verdict and judgment in the
Court of Common Pleas, from which, by petition in error, the
case was removed first to an intermediate court and then to
:the Supreme Court of the State. There it was insisted by the
defendant that the action could not be maintained in the
courts of Ohio. The Supreme Court sustained this contention,
reversed the judgments of the court below, and entered judgment for the defendant. A statute of Ohio provided that
"Whenever the death of a citizen of this State has been or may be
caused by a wrongful act, neglect or default in another State,
territory or foreign country, for which a right to maintain an
action and recover damages in respect thereof is given by a
statute of such other State, territory or foreign country, such
right of action may be enforced in this State within the time
prescribed for the commencement of such action by the statute of such other State, territory or foreign country." There
was no other statutory provision on the subject. The Supreme
Court held that the action authorized by this statute for a death
occurring in another State was only when the death was that
of a citizen of Ohip; that the common law of the State forbade
such action; and that as the person, for Whose death damages
were demanded in this case, was not a citizen of Ohio, the action would not lie. The plaintiff brings the case here on writ
of error, alleging that the statute thus construed and the judgSections 1 and 2 of the act of April 26, 1855, are as follows, Pennsylvania
Laws, 1856, p. 309: "SEc. 1. The persons entitled to recover damages for
any injury causing death, shall be the husband, widow, children or parents
of the deceased, and no other relative, and the sum recovered shall go to
them in the proportion they take his or her personal estate in case of intestacy, and that without liability to creditors. Sic. 2. The declaration
shall state who are the parties entitled in such action; the action shall be
brought within one year after the death and not thereafter." By secti' 21,
article III, of the constitution of the State of. Pennsylvania of 1874, it is
provided as follows, to wit: "SEc. 21. No act of the General Assembly shall
limit the amount to be recovered for injuries resulting in death, or for injuries to person or property, and in case of death from such injuries the right
of action shall survive, and the General Assembly shall prescribe for whose

benefit such actions shall be prosecuted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

ment based upon that construction violates Article IV, section 2,
paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the United States, which
provides that "The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."
This allegation presents the only question for our consideration.
The defendant objects to Our jurisdiction to re~xamine the
judgment because the Federal question was not properly and
seasonably raised in the courts 'of the State. But it clearly
and unmistakably appears from the opinion of the Supreme
Court that the Federal question was assumed to be in issue,
was decided against the claim of Federal right, and that the
decision of the question was essential to the judgment rendered.
This is enough to give this court the authority to reexamine
that question on writ of error. San Joss Land & Water Company v. San Joss Ranch Company, 189 U. S. 177; Haire v.
Rice, 204 U. S. 291.
In the decision of the merits of the case there are some fundamental principles which are of controlling effect. The right to
sue and defend in the courts is the alternative of force. In an
organized society it is the right conservative of all other rights,
and lies at the foundation of orderly government. It is one
of the highest and most essential privileges of citizenship, and
must be allowed by each State to the citizens of all other States
to the precise extent that it is allowed to its own citizens.
Equality of treatment in this respect is not left to depend upon
comity between the States, but is granted and protected by
the Federal Constitution. Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C.
371, 380, per Washington, J.; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418,
430, per Clifford, J.; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107, 114,
per Fuller, C. J.; Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S. 239, 252, per
Harlan, J.
But, subject to the restrictions of the Federal Constitution,
the State may determine the limits of the jurisdiction of its
courts, and the character of the controversies which shall be
heard in them. The state policy decides whether and to what

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

extent the State will entertain in its courts transitory actions,
where the causes of action ha, e arisen in other jurisdictions.
Different States may have different policies and the same State
may have different policies at different times. But any policy
the State may choose to adopt must operate in the same way
on its own citizens and those of other States. The privileges
which it affords to one class it must afford to the other. Any
law by which privileges to begin actions in the courts are given
to its own citizens and withheld from the citizens of other
States is void, because in conflict with the supreme law of the
land.
The law of Ohio must be brought to the test of these fundamental principles. It appears from the decision under review
(and we need no other authority) that by the common law of
the State the courts had no jurisdiction to entertain actions.
to recover damages for death where the cause of action arose
under the laws of other States or countries. This rule was
universal in its application. The citizenship of the persons
who brought action or of the person for whose death a remedy
was sought was immaterial. If the death was caused outside
'the State and the right of action arose under laws foreign to
the State, its courts were impartially closed to all persons
seeking a remedy, entirely irrespective of their citizenship.
The common law, however, was modified by a statute which,
as amended, became the statute under consideration here.
By this statute the courts were given jurisdiction over certain
actions of this description, while the common law was left to
control all uthers. A discrimination was thus introduced into
the law of the State. The discrimination was based solely on
the citizenship of the deceased. The courts were open in such
cases to plaintiffs who were citizens of other States if the deceased was a citizen of Ohio; they were closed to plaintiffs wl.o
were citizens of Ohio if the deceased was a citizen of another
State. So far as the parties to the litigation are concerned,
the State by its laws made no discrimination based on citizenship, and offered precisely the same privileges to citizens of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

other States which it allowed to its own. There is, therefore,
at least a literal conformity withthe requirements of the Constitution.
But it may be urged, on the other hand, that the conformity
is only superficial; that the death action may be given by the
foreign law to the person killed, at the instant when he was
vivus et mortuus, and made to survive and pass to his representatives (Higgins v. Railroad, 155 Massachusetts, 176); that
in such cases it is the right of action of the deceased which is
brought into court by those who have it by survivorship; and
that, as the test of jurisdiction is the citizenship of the person
in whom the right of action was originally vested, and the action is entertained if that person was a citizen of Ohio and declined if he was a citizen of another State, there is in a real and
substantial sense a discrimination forbidden by the Constitution.
If such a case should arise, and be denied hearing in the Ohio
-courts by the Ohio law, then as the denial would be based upon
the citizenship of that person in whom the right of action
originally vested, it might be necessary to consider -whether
the Ohio law did not in substance grant privileges to Ohio
citizens which it withheld from citizens of other States. But
no such case is before us. The Pennsylvania statute, which
created the right of action sought to be enforced in the Ohio
courts, has been construed by the courts of Pennsylvania.
The applicable section is section 19 of the act of 1851. Of it
the Pennsylvania court said in Fink v. Garman. 40 Pa. St. 95,
103:
"The 18th section was apparently intended to regulate a
common law right of action, by securing to it survivorship;
but the 19th section was creative of a new cause of action,
wholly unknown to the common law. And the right of action
was not given to the person suffering the injury, since no man
could sue for his own death, but to his widow or personal representative. It was not survivorship of the cause of action
which the legislature meant to provide for by this section, but

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

HARLAN, WHImT

151

and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

the creation of an original cause of action in favor of a surviving
Iidow or personal representative.")
This is the settled interpretation of the act. Mann v. Weiand
811 Pa. St. 243; Pennsylvania Railroadv. Bock, 93 Pa. St. 427;
Engle's Estate, 21 Pa. C. C. 299; McCafferty v. Pennsylvania
Railroad, 193 Pa. St. 339. It appears clearly,, therefore, that
the cause of action which the plaintiff sought to enfotce was
pne created for her benefit and vested originally in her. She
has not been denied access to the Ohio courts because she is not
a citizen of that Stats, but because the cause of action which
she presents is not cognizable in those courts. She Would have
been denied hearing of the same cause for the same reason if
she had been a citizen of Ohio. In excluding her cause of action
from the court§ the law of Ohio has not been influenced by her
citizenship, which is regarded as immaterial. We are unable
to see that in this case the plaintiff has been refused any right
which the Constitution of the United States confers upon her,
and accordingly the judgment is

Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE HOiLMEs, concurring.

Although I do not dissent from the reasoning of the judgment,
I prefer to rest my agreement on the proposition that if the
.statute cannot operate as it purports to operate it does not
operate at all. I do not think that it can be presumed to mean
to give to all -persons a right to sue in case the Constitution
forbids it to make the more-limited grant that it attempts.
Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 565. Apart
from the statute no one can maintain an action like this in
Ohio. !- may add that I do not understand that there is anything in the judgnient that contradicts my opinion as to the law.
MR. JUSTICE
WHITE

and MR.

HARLAN

(with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE

JUSTICE MCKENNA),

dissenting.

The plaintiff in error, Elizabeth M. Chambers, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, sought by this action against the Baltimore and

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN, WHITE and McKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

207 U. S.

Ohio Railroad Company in the Common Pleas Court of Mahoning County, Ohio, to recover damages on account of her
husband's death in Pennsylvania in 1902-his death having
been caused, it was alleged, by the negligence of the defendant
railroad company while operating a part of its line in Pennsylvania. The railroad company was brought into court by due
service of summons, and there was a trial resulting in a verdict
and judgment in favor of the plaintiff for three thousand dollars.
The case was carried upon writ of error to the Circuit Court of
Mahoning County and the judgment was there affirmed. That
judgment of affirmance was reversed by the Supreme Court
of Ohio with directions to enter judgment for the railroad
*company.
That the laws of Pennsylvania give a right of action, in favor
of the widow of a deceased whose death is "occasioned by unlawful violence or negligence," is not disputed. It is equally
clear that the present plaintiff's cause of action is not local but
is transitory in its nature, and, speaking generally, can be maintained in any jurisdiction where the wrongdoer may be found
and be brought before the court. Dennick v. Railroad Company, 103 U. S. 11; Stewart v. B. & 0. R. R. Co., 168 U. S. 445.
By a statute of Ohio (1902) in force when this action was
brought, it was provided that "whenever the death of a citizen of this State has been or may be caused by a wrongful act,
neglect or default in another State, territory or foreign country,
for which a right to maintain an action and recover damages
in respect thereof is given by a statute of such other State,
territory, or foreign country, such right of action may be enforced in this State within the time prescribed for the commencement of such action by the statute of such other State,
territory or foreign country." 95 0. L. 401. By a previous
statute (1894) suits of that kind were allowed in Ohio when
death was caused by a wrongful act, negligence or default in
another State if such suits were allowed in the State where the
death occurred. But that statute, as stated by the court in
this case, was repealed by the above act of 1902. So that the

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

HARLAN, WHITE and MCKENNA, JJ.. dissenting.

court, in the present case, held that the act of 1902 changed the
former law in two essential particulars: "1. It dispenses with
the condition that the State in which the wrongful death occurs
shall enforce in its courts the statute of this State of like character. 2. It in terms limits the right therein given to maintain
an action in this State for wrongful death occurring in another
State, to actions for causing the death of citizens of Ohio,
whereas the original section 6134a gave such right without
limitation or restriction as to citizenship." Again, the court
said: "Having regard then to the scope and effect of the provisions of the section amended, and to the special character
of the amendments made, we think it clear that the legislature,
by the adoption of amended section 6134a [the act of 1902],
undertook and intended thereby to limit and restrict the right
to recover in the courts of this State for a wrongful death occurring in another State, to those cases where the person killed
was, at the time of his death, a citizen of Ohio." That there
may be no mistake as to the decision, I quote the official syllabus of the present case which, by the law of Ohio, is to be
taken as indicating the point actually in judgment: "No action
can be maintained in the courts of this State upon a cause of
action for wrongful death occurring in another State, except
where the person wrongfully killed was a citizen of the State of
Ohio." 73 Ohio St. 1.
It thus appears that the final judgment in this case for the
railroad company rests upon the distinct ground that the
courts of Ohio cannot, under the statute of that State, take
cognizance of an action for damages, on account of death occurring in another State and caused by wrongful act, neglect
or default, except where -the person wrongfully killed was a
citizen of Ohio. In that view, if two persons, one a citizen of
Ohio and the other a citizen of Pennsylvania, traveling together
on a railroad in Pennsylvania, should both be killed at the same
moment and under precisely the same circumstances, in consequence of the negligence or default of the railroad company,
the courts, of Ohio are closed, by its statute against any suit

OCTO1ER TERM, 1907.
HARLAx, WHITE

and McKmNmA, JJ., dissenting.

207 U. S.

for damages brought by the widow or the estate of the citizen
of Pennsylvania against the railroad company, but will be open
to suit by the widow or the estate of the deceased citizen of
Ohio, although by the laws of the State where the death occurred the widow or estate of each decedent would have in the
latter State a valid cause of action.
Is a state enactment, having such effect, repugnant to the
clause 'of the Federal Constitution, Art. 4, § 2, which declares
that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States?" Will
not that constitutional guarianty be shorn of much of its value
if any State can reserve either for its own citizeis, or for the
estates of its citizens, privileges and immunities which, even
where the facts are the same, it denies to citizens or to the
estates of citizens of other States?
It is not necessary to fully enumerate the privileges and
immunities secured against hostile discrimination by the constitutional provision in question. All agree that among such
privileges and immunities are those which, under our institutions, are fundamental in their nature. I cordially assent to
what is said upon this point in the opinion just delivered for
the majority of the court. The opinion says: "In the decision
of the merits of the case there are some fundamental principles which are of controlling effect. The right to sue and defend in the courts is the alternative of force. In an otganized
society it is the right conservative of all other rights, and lies
at the foundation of orderly government, It is one of the
highest and most essential privileges- of citizenship, and must
be allowed by each State to the citizens of all other States
to the precise extent that it is allowed to its own citizens.
Equality 6f treatment in this respect is not left to'depend upon
comity between the States, but is granted and protected by the
Federal Constitution. . .. .. The privileges which it [the
State] affords to one class it must afford to the other. Any
law by which privileges to begin actions in the courts are given
to its own citizens and withheld from the citizens of other

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

H.wxL x, WMTE and

MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

States is void, because in conflict with the supreme law of the
land."
These views are supported by the former decisions of this
and other courts. In the leading case of Corfield v. Coryell, 4
Wash. C. C. 571, 580, Mr. Justice Washington said: "The inquiry is what are the privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States? We feel no hesitation in confining these
expressions to those privileges and immunities which are, in
their nature, fundamental, which belong, of right, to the citizens of all free governments, and which have, at all times, been
enjoyed by the citizens of the several States whicl compose
this Union from the time of their becoming free, independent
and sovereign. What these fundamental principles are it would
perhaps be more tedious than difficult to enumerate." Among
the particular privileges and immunities which are clearly to
be deemed fundamental, the court in that case specifies the
right "to institute and maintain actions of any kind in the courts
of the State."
In Paul v. Virginia, 8Mall. 168, 180, the court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Field, said:' "It was undoubtedly the object of the
clause in question [Const. Art. 4, § 2] to place the citizens of
each State upon the same footing with citizens of other States,
so far as the advantages resulting from citizenship in those
States are concerned. It relieves them from the disabilities
of alienage in other States; it inhibits discriminating legislation
againsf them by other States; it gives them the right of free
ingress ipto other States, and egress from them; it insures to
them in other States the same freedom possessed by the citizens
of thofe States in the acquisition and enjoyment of property
and in the pursuit of happiness; and it secures to them in other
States the equal protection of their laws. It has been justly
said that no provision in the Constitution has tended so strongly
to constitute the citizens of'the United States one people as this.
Indeed, without some provision of the kind removing from the
citizens of each State the disabilities of alienage in the other
States, and giving them equality of privilege with citizens of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HAaL&,

WH

and McKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

207 U. S.

those States, the Republic would have constituted little more
than a league of States; it would not have constituted the Union
which now exists."
So, in Ward v; Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430, the court, after
referring to Cor/ield v. Coryell, above cited, and, speaking by
Mr. Justice Clifford, stated that the right "to maintain actions
in the courts of the State" was fundamental and was protected
by the' constitutional clause in question against state enactments that discriminated against citizens of other States.
Referring to the cases just cited, and to the constitutional
clause in question, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court in
the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 77, said: "Its sole purpose was to declare to the several States, that whatever those
rights, as you grant or establish them to your own citizens, "or
as you limit or qualify, or impose restrictions on their exercise,
the same, neither more nor less, shall be the measure of the
rights of citizens of other States within your jurisdiction."
In Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. 107, 114, the present
Chief Justice, speaking for the court, said: "The intention of
section 2 of Article IV was to confer on the citizens of the several
States a general citizenship, and to communicate all the privileges and immunities which the citizens of the same State
would be entitled to under the like circumstances, and this
includes the right to institute actions."
In the more recent case of Blake v. McClung, 172 U. S.239,
256, the court said: "We must not be understood as saying
that a citizen of one State is entitled to enjoy in another State
every privilege that may be given in the latter to its own citizens. There are privileges that may be accorded by a State
to its own people in which citizens of other States may not
participate except in conformity to such reasonable regulations
as may be established by the State. Fo-.instance, a State cannot forbid citizens of other States from suing in its courts, that
right being enjoyed by its oun people; but it may require a nonresident, although a citizen of another State, to. give bond for
costs, although such bond be not required of a resident. Such

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

HARLAN, WHITE and MCKENNA,

JJ., dissenting.

a regulation of the internal affairs of a State cannot reasonably
be characterized as hostile to the fundamental rights of citizens
of other States.

.

The Constitution forbids only such

legislation affecting citizens of the respective States as will
substantially or practically put a citizen of one State in a condition of alienage when he is within or when he removes to
another State, or when asserting in another State the rights
that commonly appertain to those who are part of the political
community known as the People of the United States, by and
for whom the Government of the Union was ordained and
established."
These cases, I think, require the reversal of the judgment of
the Supreme Court upon the ground that it denies to the plaintiff a right secured by the Constitution of the United States.
The statute of Ohio, we have. seen, closes the doors of the
courts of that State against the present plaintiff alone because
her deceased husband was not at the time of his death a citizen
of Ohio. Thus, every citizen of Ohio, when in another State,
for whatever purpose, is accompanied by the assurance on the
part of his State that its courts will be open for suit by his
widow or representative if his death, while in another State,
is caused by the negligence or default of another person or
company. But that privilege is denied by the Ohio statute to
the representative of citizens of other States meeting death
under like circumstances. Indeed, if a citizen of Ohio should
go int6 another State and while there willfully, or by some
wrongful act, neglect or default on his part, cause the death
of some one, although he might be liable to a suit for damages
in the State where death occurred, yet if sued for damages in
the courts of his own State, he need only plead in bar of the
action in Ohio that the decedent was not, at the time of his
death, a citizen of Ohio. Such, it seems to me, is the operation
of the statute of Ohio as it is interpreted by the court below.
The Supreme Court of Ohio, it will be observed, does not base
its judgment upon any common law of the State apart from
its statutes. It says: "From a consideration of the statutes

158

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.,
HaAN, WHITE and MCKENNA, JJ., dissenting.

207 U. S.

hereinbefore referred to, and the former decisions of this court,
we think it must now be held to be the recognized policy and
established law of this State, that an action for wrongful death
occurring in another State, will not be enforced in the courts
of this State, except where the person killed was, at the time of
his death, a citizen of Ohio." It places its judgment on its
statutes and judicial decisions, which it regards'as together
indicafing the policy apd law of the State to be such as to preclude an action for damages, except where the deceased was
a citizen of Ohio. That exception, upon whatever basis it
may be rested, must fall before the Constitution of the United
States and be treated as a nullity. The denial to the widow or
represefitativ'e of Chambers of the right to sue in Ohio 'upon
the ground that he was not a citizen. of Ohio when killed was
the denial, in every essential sense, of a fundamental privilege
belonging to him under the Constitution in virtue of his beiiii
a citizen of one of the States of the Union-the right to sueand;
defend in the courts of justice, which right this court concedes
to be "one of the highest and most essential privileges of citizenship." While in life Chambers enjoyed the right-and it
was a most valuable right-of such protection as came from
the rule establiihed in Pennsylvania, that, in case of his death
in consequence of the negligence of others, the wrong done to
the deceased in' his lifetime could be remedied by.means of
suit brought in the name and for the benefit of his widow or
personal representative. But Ohio takes this right of protection from him; for, the Ohio court would have taken cognizance
of this action -if the decedent Chambers had been, when 'killed,
a citizen of Ohio, while it denies relief to his widow, and puts
her out ot court solely because her husband was, when killed,
a citizen of another State. It thus accords to the Ohio 'widow
of a deceased Ohio citizen a privilege which it withholds -from
the Pennsylvania widow of a deceased Pennsylvania citizen.
If the statutes of Ohio had -excluded from the jurisdiction of
the courts of that State all actions for damages on account of
death a different. question would be presented. But, that is

CHAMBERS v. BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R.
207 U. S.

HmmAN,WRFT

and McK xA, JJ., dissenting.

not what Ohio has assumed to do. As already shown, it allows
suits for damages like the present one, where the death occurred
in another State, provided the deceased was a -citizen of Ohio,
but prohibits them where he was a citizen of some other State. The
final judgment in this case therefore denies a fundamental
right inhering in citizenship, and protected by section 2 of
.rticle IV of the Constitution. The Constitution is the supreme
law of the land. But it would not be sunreme if any right
given by it could be overridden either by state enactment or
by judicial decision. In Higgins v. Central New R 9 . &c. Railroad, 155 Massachusetts, 176, 180, the Supreme Judicial Court
of Massachusetts, after referring to transitory causes of artion
which did not exist at common law, but were created by the
statute of another State and passed to the administrator of
.the deceased, said: "When an action is brought upon it here,
the plaintiff is not met by any difficulty upon these points.
Whether our courts will entertain it depends upon the general
principles which are to be applied in determining the question
whether actions founded upon the laws of other States shall be
heard here. These, principles require that, in case of other than'
penal actions, the foreign law, if not contrary to our public
policy, or to abstract justice or pure morals, or calculated to
injure the State or its citizens, shall be recognized and enforced
here, if we have jurisdiction of all necessary parties, and if
we can see that, consistently with our own forms of procedure
and laW of trials, we can do substantial justice between the
parties." The statute of Pennsyvania which gave the plaintiff as widow of the deceased a right to sue for damages does
not offend natural justice or good morals, nor is it calculated
to injure the citizens of any State, not even those of Ohio, nor
can it be said to offend any policy of that State which has been
made applicable equally to its own citizens and citizens of other
States. The case is plainly one in which Ohio attempts, in
reference to certain kinds of actions that are maintainable in
perhaps every State of the Union, including Ohio, to give to its
own citizens privileges which it denies, under like circumstances,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
HARLAN, WHITE and McKENN &, JJ., dissenting.

207 U. S.

to citizens of other States. To a citizen of Ohio it says: "If
you go into Pennsylvania, and are killed while there, in consequence of the negligence or default of some one, your widow
may have access to the Ohio courts in a suit for damages, provided the wrongdoer can be reached in Ohio by service of process." But to the citizen of Pennsylvania it says: "If you come
to your death in that State by reason of the negligence or default of some one, even if the wrongdoer be a citizen of Ohio, your
widow shall not sue the Ohio wrongdoer in an 'Ohio court for
damages because, and only because, you are a citizen of another
State." This is an illegal discrimination against living citizens
of other States, and the difficulty is not met by the suggestion
that no discrimination is made against the widow of the deceased because of her citizenship in another State. The statute of Pennsylvania in question had in view the protection of
persons, while alive, against negligence or default causing death.
It must have had that object in view. I submit that no State
can authorize its courts to deny or disregard the constitutional
guaranty that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States.
With entire respect for the views of others, I am constrained
to say that, in my opinion, so much of the local law, whether
statutory or otherwise, as permits suits of this kind for damages,
where the deceased was a citizen of Ohio, but forbids such suits
where the deceased was not a citizen of Ohio, is unconstitutional. The judgment under review should be reversed.

