TILT v. KELSEY.
207 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

TILT v. KELSEY, COMPTROLLER OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATES' COURT OF THE COUNTY OF NEW
YORK AND STATE OF NEW YORK.

No.

18.

Argued January 28. 1907.-Decided October 21, 1907.

Where judicial proceedings in one State are relied upon as a defense to
an assessment by the authorities of another State a right under the
Constitution of the Unit&d States is specially set up and claimed though
it was not in terms stated to be such a right.
An adjudication by the probate, court that a testator was a resident of'
the State though essential to the assumption -of jurisdiction to grant
letters testamentary is not necessarily conclusive on the question of
domicil nor even evidence of it in a collateral proceeding, and, under
the full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution, is not
binding upon the courts of another State.
In respect to the settlement of successions to property on death the States
are sovereign and may give to their courts the authority to determine
finally as against all the world all questions which arise therein, subject
to applicable constitutional limitations.
Where the decree of the probate court is final and bars all persons having
claims against the estate, the courts of another State must, under the
full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution, give similar force
and effect to such a decree, when rendered by a court having jurisdiction
to probate the will and administer the estate, and hed that such a final
decree in New Jersey was a bar in the courts of another State against
the taxing authorities of the latter State attempting to enforce a claim for
inheritance tax on the ground that the testator was at the time of his death
domiciled therein.
182 N. Y. 557, reversed.

THis is a writ of error from this court to the Surrogates'
Court of the County and State of New Yo~rk to review a judgmtent entered in that court in pursuance of an order of the
Court of Appeals of that State. The judgment assessed a
succession tax upon the personal estate of Albert Tilt, deceased,
upon the ground that he was at the time of his death a resident
of the State of New York. Before the assessment of the tax
the estate of Tilt, who died testate, was fully administered in

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

207 U. S.

the courts of New Jersey, where the will was probated. In
the course of the administration all the personal property,
after paying debts, taxes and charges of administration, was
distributed by the executors to the beneficiaries under the
will. A reversal of the judgment of the. Surrogates' Court is
sought for the reason that it (lid not give full faith and credit
to the judicial proceedings of the State of New Jersey, as required by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
Mr. William G. Wilson for plaintiffs in error:
The legal residence of deceased at the time of his death was
in New Jersey. The right, in this country, of each individual,
to change his residence at will, cannot be questioned.
Change of citizenship, as distinguished from change of residence, is not always so simple a matter,' and a change of residence does not in itself necessarily involve any change of
citizenship. Where the intent is not clear, it has to be inferred from the circumstances surrounding the act.' But when
the intent is clear, acts in furtherance. of it should -.be interpreted in the light of the known intent..' Dupuy v. Wurtz,
53 N. Y. 556; Thorndike v. Boston, 1 Met. 242.
The right which every fndividual has to change his residence
at will could not be denied or restricted by reason of the fact
that a party already possessed two "homes," one in New
York City, and one in Mount Arlington, New Jersey, and occupied each, with his family, for about one-half of each year.
This is one of the cases where, in the language of Chief Justice
Shaw, "very slight circumstances must often decide the question." Story on Conflict of Laws, § 47; Somerville v. Somerville, 5 Vesey, 750; Thayer v. Boston, 124 Massachusetts, 132.
The probate of the will in New Jersey is conclusive upon
the question of his residence for purposes of administration,
and tax under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution.
To no proceedings does this provision apply with greater
force than. to those Which involve the administration of the

TILT v. KELSEY.
207 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

estates of decedents in which the State acts in the exercise of
its sovereignty. It has absolute control, except for the limitations imposed by the Federal Constitution which recognize
and enforce the sovereignty of the State within those limitations, in the very provision above quoted. See Plant v.
Harrison,36 Misc. (N. Y.) 649.
The decree of the surrogate of Morris County, New Jersey,
admitting the will of Albert Tilt to probate as the will of a
resident of that county, is conclusive here if it is conclusive
in New Jersey. If the probate is conclusive in New Jersey the
question is not an open one. This is a question not answered
by referring to general principles of law, by determining what
at common law was the significance and effect of a judgment,
but can be answered only by an examination of the decisions
of the courts of New Jersey. Hancock National Bank v.
Farnum, 176 U. S. 643.
New Jersey is not, as Connecticut is, an exception to the
general rule that the record of probate should be collaterally
invulnerable. In Matter of Caursen's Will, 3 Green's Ch. 406;
Straub's case, 49 N. J. Eq. 264; Quidort's case, 3 C. E. Green,
472; Ryno's Exr. v. Ryno's Admr., 12 C. E. Green, 522.
Mr. George M. Judd, for defendant in error, submitted:
The decree of a probate court is in the nature of a proceeding in rem, and therefore any ground or fact upon which that
decree professes to be founded can be inquired into in a proceeding in another State, brought by a person not a party to
the probate proceedings. Life Ins. Co. v. Tisdale, 91 U.S. 238.
The decree of the Surrogate's Court in New Jersey, granting
letters testamentary, is conclusive only upon the point adjudicated--whether the parties named receive letters testamentary. That was the res, and upon that only has there been
an adjudication. Residence was not the res and it was not the
point adjudicated; therefore said decree is not conclusive as
to residence in a distinct and separate proceeding brought by
the Comptroller of the State of New York to fix a transfer tax

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

alleged to be due the State of New York. Brigham v. Fayerweather, 140 Massachusetts, 411.
The probate proceeding in New Jersey was only formal, the
probate of the will was not opposed; there was not a full and
fair investigation of the facts; the state comptroller was not
a party in the sense that he was entitled to be heard, or to take
an appeal, and unless he had that right, he was not concluded
by the adjudication of facts upon which the decree is grounded.
3 Wigmore on Evidence, § 1347, p. 1636.
Leaving out of consideration the ex parte nature of the
probate proceedings, in view of the fact that by § 15 of the
statutes of New Jersey, residence of the decedent in the county
is made one of the jurisdictional facts upon which the probate
court of that .county bases its decree admitting the will to
probate, and in view of the further fact that an exemplified
copy of the decree of that probate court has been offered in
evidence by the appellant's claiming a benefit under it, it is a
general rule of law, applicable to the circumstances of this
case, that this court is not precluded from inquiring into the
question of residence.
The fact that the record of the probate proceedings in New
Jersey recites the jurisdictional fact of residence can make no
difference. General Statutes of New Jersey, published by
authority of the legislature under acts of April 4, 1894, and
March 20, 1895, Chapter 234 of Laws of 1898 (fols. 148-150).
See also Hard v. Shipman, 6 Barb. 623; Bolton v. Schriever,
135 N. Y. 73; Matter of Law, 56 App. Div. 454; Ferguson v.
Crawford, 70 N. Y. 253; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457;
Thorman v. Frame, 176 U. S. 350; Plant v. Harrison, 36
Misc. Rep. 649, cited by plaintiffs in error, distinguished.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
In the disposition of this case we are somewhat embarrassed
by our ignorance of the reasons which controlled the decision
of the highest court of the State. The opinion of the surro-

TILT v. KELSEY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

gate was very brief. His judgment was affirmed upon appeal
successively by the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals
-in each court without an opinion and with two judges dissenting. The record shows the following facts: Albert Tilt
was engaged in business as a silk manufacturer in Paterson,
New Jersey, until the time of his death. Until 1888 he was
a resident and citizen of Paterson. In that year he removed
to New York City, became a resident and citizen of. New York,
and remained such until some time in the year 1899. He died
in New York on May 2, 1900. His residence and citizenship
at the time of his death was in dispute. For many years he.
had owned a house in New York City, where he lived during
the greater part of the year, and another house in Roxbury,
New Jersey, where he lived during the summer and early
autumn. It is contended by the executors of his will, the
plaintiffs in error, that in the last year of his life he changed
his domicil from New York City to Roxbury and that at the
time of his death he was domiciled in New Jersey. On the
other hand, it is contended by the Comptroller of New York,
the defendant in error, that his domicil continued until his
death to be in New York. Upon this question the evidence
was conflicting.
After the'death of Mr. Tilt, his will was admitted to probate
by the surrogate of Morris County, New Jersey, who by law
had jurisdiction to do this if the testator resided in the county
at the time of his death. The petition for probate described
the testator as "late of the township of Roxbury, in said
county," and the letters testamentary granted on May 23,
1900, by the surrogate described him as "late of the county of'
Morris, deceased." An order was made fixing a time within
which creditors must prove claims against the estate. On the
expiration of this time a further order was made, that all
creditors who had neglected t6 bring in their claims and demands should "be forever barred from their action therefor
against the executors of said deceased." Succession taxes, imposed by the law of New Jersey and the law of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

States, and all debts, were paid. The executors presented their
accounts to the Orphans' Court of the county, and that court,
acting within its jurisdiction, on June 20, 1901, allowed the
accounts and directed the distribution of the estate, according
to the terms of the will. The executors made the distribution
in conformity with the court's order, thereby parting with all
the property of the testator which had been in their hands.
After the distribution had been accomplished the State of
New York for the first time made known its claim for a transfer tax. The comptroller of the State filed his petition with
the surrogate of the county of New York. In response to this
petition, on August 16, 1901, Robert Mazet was appointed by
the surrogate as appraiser to fix the fair market value of the
property of Albert Tilt, deceased. This was done with the
view of ascertaining the amount of a transfer tax due under
a section of a statute providing for such a tax "when the transfer is by will or by the intestate laws of this State from any
person dying seized and possessed of the property while a
resident of the State." On March 6, 1903, Mazet filed his
report in the Surrogates' Court. The material part of this
report was: first, that the net personal property of the deceased "subject to tax herein" was at the time of his death of
the fair market Value of $1,056,951.22; second, that Tilt was
a resident of New York City at the time of his death; third,
that he left a will which had been "duly admitted to probate
in the'Surrogate's Court of the County of Morris, State of
New Jersey;" fourth, after stating the disposition of his property made by the testator by this will, the report appraised
the estate "subject to tax herein" at its fair market value at
the amount already stated. On June 15, 1903, the surrogate
entered an order adopting the value of the property reported
by the appraiser and assessing the amount of the transfer tax
specifically on each bequest contained in the will. The total
tax amounted to about thirteen thousand dollars. On August 10, 1903, a paper, entitled "Appeal to the Surrogate,"
was filed by the executors.

This paper gave notice of an ap-

TILT v. KELSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U.S.

peal to the surrogate from the appraisement, assessment, and
determination of the transfer tax, and 'from the surrogate's
own order of June 15. The only ground of appeal which need
be stated here is the fifth, which alleged "that the right to
assess or impose a tax under the laws of the State of New
York upon the transfer of the property of the testator, if there
ever was any such right, was barred. before the commencement of this proceeding, by a decree of the Orphans' Court of
Morris County, New Jersey, a court of competent jurisdiction,
made on the twenty-fifth day of February, 1901, barring all
claims against the said testator or his estate which had not been
presented and proved to said executors, pursuant to public
notice heretofore given and published, as prescribed by the
laws of the State of New Jersey; and by the further decree of
the same court, made on the twentieth day of June, 1901, directing the distribution of the estate of said testator in the
-hands of said executors, according to the terms of the will of
the said Albert"Tilt, deceased; in obedience to which the said
executors, without any notice or knowledge of any claim or
liability for the payment of a transfer tax under the laws of
the State of New York, distributed the said estate, so that
there was not at the time of the commencement of this proceeding, and is not now, any property of the said estate in the
hands of said executors." It was then agreed by counsel that
the surrogate should determine on affidavits whether or not
Albert Tilt was a resident of New York at the time of his death.
Pending the consideration of this question the executor requested in writing certain findings of facts and conclusions
oi law, of which only two need be stated here. They are as
follows: (2) "Under the Constitution of the United States full
faith and credit must be given to the probate of said will and
codicil of said Albert Tilt in the State of New Jersey, and to
the accounting and distribution made by his executors under
the decree of the Orphans' Court of Morris County in said
State, of the estate of said Albert Tilt as a resident of New
Jersey at the time of his death." (3) "None of the personal
'VOL.

COVIT-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

estate of said Albert Tilt is subject to the payment of a transfer
tax under the laws of the State of New York, excepting only
such of his personal estate as was actually, within the State of
New York at the time of his death." Theso requests were
refused by the surrogate, who, in a short opinion, found as a
fact that Tilt was a resident of New York at the time of his
death, and ruled that his personal estate, wherever situated,
was subject to the payment of a transfer tax under the laws
of New York. An order was accordingly entered affirming the
order of June 15. Thereupon the executors filed exceptions,
the last two of which were as follows: (20) "To the refusal of
the said Surrogate to find as a conclusion of law that under
the Constitution of the United States full faith and credit must
be given to the' probate of-said will and codicil of said Albert
Tilt in the State of New Jersey, and to the accounting and
distribution made by his executors under the decree of the
Orphans' Court of Morris County in said State, of the estate
of said Albert Tilt as a resident of New Jersey at the time of
his death. (21) To the refusal of the said Surrogate to find as
a conclusion of law that none of the personal estate- of said
Albert Tilt is subject. to the payment of a transfer tax under
the laws of the State of New York, excepting only such of his
personal estate as was actually within the State of New York
at the time of his death." An appeal was then taken, and, as
already stated, the action of the surrogate was affirmed by
the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals. The proceedings before the surrogate are somewhat fully set forth, because
it is contended that no Federal question was properly and
seasonably raised in the state courts.. We think, however,
that a right under the Constitution of the United States was
specially set up and claimed by the executors, as required by
§ 709 of the Revised Statutes, and denied by the highest court
of the State, and that therefore we have authority to reexamine
the decision. It appears clearly in the paper entitled "Appeal
to the Surrogate" that the executors relied upon the judicial
proceedings in New Jersey as a defense to the assessment of

TILT v. 'KELSEY.
207 U. S.

51

Opinion of the Court.

the New York tax. They "specially set up and claimed" a
right under those proceedings, though it was not in terms
stated to be a right claimed under the Constitution. This,
in the case of a judgment of the court of another State, has
been held to be a sufficient compliance with the statute.
Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy, 162 U. S. 329; Bell v.
Bell, 181 U. S. 175; Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14, and
see the remark of the Chief .Justice in Mutual Life Insurance
Company v. McGrew, 188 U. S. 291, 311. Moreover, while
the surrogate still had the appeal under consideration and
undecided, requests in writing were made to him which clearly
and specifically set up the claim that the full faith and credit
due, under the Constitution, to the judicial proceedings of
the State of New Jersey forbade the assessment of the tax.
These requests were entertained and the claim denied by the
surrogate and an exception taken. Upon the record thus
made an appeal was taken,, and in the disposition of the appeal the Federal question was necessarily passed upon by the
highest court of the State, whose decision, therefore, we may
reexamine.
That reexamination, however, must be confined to the single
question whether by the assessment of the tax full faith and
credit has been denied to the judicial proceeding of the State
of New, Jersey in violation of Article IV, section 1, of the Constitution. In the consideration of this question, the first ,inquiry which presents itself is whether the adjudication of the
New Jersey court, that Tilt was at the time of his death a
resident of New Jersey, was conclusive upon the State of
New York,, a stranger to the proceedings. If it was that is
the end of the case, because then New York could not take
the first step necessary to bring the estate within the provision
of the tax law of that State. But upon principle and authority
that adjudication, though essential to the assumption of
jurisdiction to grant letters testamentary, was neither conelhsive on the question of dornicil, nor even evidence of it in
a collateral proceeding. Thormann v. Frame, 176 U. S. 350;

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214; Dallinger v. Richardson, 176
Massachusetts, 77; and see Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co. v.
Tisdale, 91 U. S. 238; De Mora v. Concha, 29 Ch. Div. 268;
aff'd 11 App. Cases, 541; Brigham v. Fayerweather, 140 Massachusetts, 411. The difference in the effect of a judgment on
the res before the court and of the adjudication of the facts
on which the judgment is based is pointed out by Mr. Justice Holmes in the last case. In an opinion, holding that a
decree of a probate court admitting a will to probate was not,
on an issue between parties one of whom was not a party to
the probate proceedings, competent evidence of the testator's
mental capacity, he said: "A judgment in rem is an act of the
sovereign power; and, as such, its effects cannot be disputed,
at least within the jurisdiction. If a competent court declares
a vessel forfeited, or orders it sold free of all claims, or divorces
a couple, or establishes a will, . . . a paramount title
is passed, the couple is divorced, the will is established as
against all the world, whether parties or not, because the
sovereign has said that it shall be so. But the same is true
when the judgment is that A recover a debt of B. The public
force is pledged to collect the debt from B, and no one within
the jurisdiction can oppose it. And it does not follow ihthe
former case any more than in the latter, nor is it true, that
the judgment, because conclusive on all the world in what we*
may call its legislative effect, is equally conclusive upon all
as an adjudication of the facts upon which it is grounded.
On the contrary, those judgments, such as sentences of prize
courts, to which the greatest effect has been giveh in collateral
*proceedings, are said to be conclusive evidence of the facts
upon which they proceed only against parties who were entitled to be heard before they were rendered. We may lay
on one side, then, any argument based on the misleading
expression thAt all the world are parties to a proceeding in
rem. This does not mean that all the world, are entitled to
be heard, and as strangers in interest are not, entitled to be
heard, there is no reason why they should be bound by the

TILT v. KELSEY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

findings of fact, although bound to admit the title or status
which the judgment establishes." We think that this quotation expresses the correct rule and that it is sustained by the
decisions of this court. Applying it here, it follows that the
full faith and credit due to the proceedings of the New Jersey
court do not require that the courts of New York shall be.
bound by its adjudication on the question of domicil. On
the contrary, it is open to the courts of any State in the trial
of a collateral issue to determine upon the evidence produced
the true domicil of the deceased.
But assuming that the New York court had the right to
determine, and determined rightly, the domicil of the deceased, what then? The grievance here is not the finding that
Mr. Tilt died a resident of New York. It is the assessment,
based upon that finding, of a transfer tax upon the legaciescontained in. his will. The real question in the case is whether
the assessment of that tax by the State of New York is consistent with the full faith and credit required by the Constitution to be given to the judicial proceedings of another State.
After the will had been allowed and letters testamentary had
been issued by the New Jersey surrogate, the executors named
in the will took possession of all the personal property of the
testator (the real property not being concerned in this litigation) and began to administer it in accordance with the terms
of the will and under the direction of the court. That property,
appraised at about one million dollars, consisted of bank deposits almost entirely in New Jersey banks, life insurance
policies, a few small mortgages, notes and accounts receivable, furniture, horses and carriages, and (constituting more
than eight-tenths of the whole of the personal estate) stock in
New Jersey corporations. A limit of time was fixed for the
presentation of claims against the estate, at the expiration
of which it was decreed that all creditors who had neglected
to bring in their demands should be barred from any action
thereon against the executors. What was then done appears
in an affidavit of a witness, which was agreed by counsel in

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

the hearing before the New York surrogate to show the facts.
The affidavit is in part as follows: "Said executors accounted
as such in the Orphans' Court of said Morris County, New
Jersey, which court had jurisdiction under the laws of New
Jersey to entertain such accounting and to direct final distribution of the estate of said testator thereon, and such proceedings were thereupon had that on June 20, 1901, a decree was
made in said Orphans' Court by the judge presiding therein,
finally settling and allowing the accounts of said executors,
and directing the distribution of the balance of the estate of
said Albert Tilt remaining in the hands of said executors according to the terms of said will. Thereupon and prior to
August, 1901, such distribution was made by said executors
pursuant to the terms of said will, in conformity with the
direction of said decree, and thereafter there remained in the
hands of said executors no money or personal property whatsoever of the estate of said Albert Tilt."
Thus executors appointed by a court having upon the face
of the record authority to make the appointment, had accounted for the property which had come into their hands to
the court having jurisdiction under the laws of the State to
pass on the accounts, and, without knowledge of any claim
by the State of New York, had, by the direction of the court
acting within its jurisdiction, paid out the whole estate to
those who were entitled to it by the will." All that was done
by the executors, and all that was received by the beneficiaries
in the disp6sition of the estate, was done and received by orders
of court, duly entered in the course of judicial proceedings.
For the purpose of enabling the executors to distribute the
estate with safety to themselves, in accordance with a common
practice in the settlement of the estate of deceased persons,
and, under authority conferred by the laws of the State, the
court, prior to the distribution, had decreed that all those
who had neglected to bring in their claims should be "forever
barred from their action therefor against the executors of the
deceased." Upon these facts does the assessment of this

TILT v. KELSEY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

transfer tax by the State of New York, by whose laws the
tax thus assessed is made a lien on the property transferred
and a personal obligation of the transferee and the executors
(§222, ch. 908, Laws of 1896), give the full faith and credit
to which these judicial proceedings are entitled? The answer
to this question depends upon the nature of the proceedings
and their effect upon the rights of those persons who were not
parties or privies to them. If they are binding upon such
persons the State of New York may not levy a tax upon property which has been transferred free from the burden and impose a personal liability on the executors who have been declared forever exempt from all demands against the estate.
The enforcement of the claim for such a tax against the property, against the distributees of the property, and against
those who have distributed it, under the direction of the court,
and with its assurance that no claims against them shall longer
exist, is plainly inconsistent with the judicial proceedings by
which the property has been administered. Is then the nature
of the proceedings such that they are binding not only upon
those who were parties or privies to them, but upon all others
as well?
When the owners of property die, that property, under the
conditions and restrictions of the law applicable, is transmitted
to their successors named by their wills or by the laws regulating inheritance in cases of intestacy. For a suitable time it is
essential that the property should remain under the control
of the State, until all just charges against it can be discovered
and paid, and those entitled to it as new owners can be ascertained. It is in the public interest that the property should
come under the control of the new. owners, after such delays
only as will afford opportunity for investigation and hearing
to guard against mistake, injustice, or fraud. It is the duty
of the sovereign to provide a tribunal, under whose direction
the just demands against the estate may be determined and
paid, the succession decreed, and the estate devolved to those
who are found to be entitled to it. Sometimes this duty is

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

performed by conferring jurisdiction upon a single court and
sometimes by dividing the jurisdiction among two or three
courts. The courts may be termed ecclesiastical, probate,
orphans', surrogate or equity courts. The jurisdiction may be
exercised exclusively in one, or divided among two or more,
as the sovereign shall determine. But somewhere the power
must exist to decide finally as against the world all questions
which arise in the settlement of the succession. Mistakes niay
occur and sometimes do occur, but it is better that they. should
be endured than that, in a vain search for infallibility, questions shall remain open indefinitely.. As was said by Mr. JusWill, 21
tice Bradley, speaking on this subject in Broderick's
Wall. 503, p. 519: "The world must move on, and those who
claim an interest in persons and things must be charged with
knowledge of their status and condition, and of the vicissitudes
to which they are subject. This is the foundation of all judicial
proceedings in rem." It is therefore within the power of the
sovereign to give to its courts the authority, while settling the
Isuccession
of estates in their possession through their officers,
the executors or administrators, to determine finally as against
the world all questions which arise therein. Grignon v. Astor,
2 How. 319, per Baldwin, J., p. 338; Beauregard v. New Orleans, 18 How. 497; Foulke v. Zimmerman, 14 Wall. 113; Board
of Public Works v. Columbia College, 17 Wall. 521; Broderick's
Will, 21 Wall. 503; Simmons v. Saul, 138 U. S. 439; Byers v.
McAuley, 149 U. S. 608; Goodrich v. Ferris,145 Fed. Rep. 844;
Loring v. Steineman,,1 Met. (Mass.) 204; Kellogg v. Johnson,
38 Connecticut, 269; State v. Blake, 69 Connecticut, 61; Exton
v. Zule, 14 N. J. Eq. 501; Search v. Search, 27 N. .1. Eq. 137;
Harlow v. Harlow, 65 Maine, 448; Ladd v. Weiskoif, 62 Minnesota, 29.
In respect to the settlement of the successions to property
on death the States of the Union are sovereign and may give
to their judicial proceedings such conclusive effect, subject
to the requirements of due process of law and to any other
constitutional limitation which may be applicable.

TILT v. KELSEY.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Coirt.

But though a State may attach to the judicial proceedings
of the courts, through which the devolution of the estates of
deceased persons is accomplished, the conclusive effect which
has been described, it may not choose 'to do so, or may choose
to do so only in respect of part of the adjudications made in
the course of the settlement of the succession. It may, for
instance, choose to regard the probate of a will or the grant
of letters of administration as conclusive on all, and on the other
hand to regard an order of distribution as open to attack in a
collateral proceeding by those who were not parties to it.
The extent to which such proceedings shall be held conclusive
is a matter to be determined by each State according to its
own views of public policy. The variations in practice in the
different States are considerable and no good purpose would be
served; by considering them. It is enough to instance that in
the States of Connecticut and Massachusetts, according to
the cases just cited, a decree of distribution is binding upon all,
while in the State of New York it appears not to be binding
on 6ne who Was not a party to it. In r Killan, 172 N. Y. 547.
When, therefore,, we come to consider what faith and credit
must be given- to these judicial proceedings of New Jersey, we
must first ascertain what effect that State attaches to them.
The statute enacted to carry into effect the constitutional
provisioff provided that they should have in any court within
the United States such faith and credit "as they have by law
and us.ge in the courts of the States from which they are
taken." Act of May 26, 1790, now sec. 905, Rev. Stat. They
can have no .greater or less or other effect in other courts than
in those of their own State. Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108;
Board of Public Works v. Columbia College, 17 Wall. 521;
Robertson v. Pickrell, 109 U. S. 608; Hancock National Bank v.
Farium, 176 U. S. 640. In ascertaining, on a writ of error to
a state court, what credit' is given to these judicial proceedings
by the laws and usages of the State of New Jersey, we are
limited to the evidence on that subject before the court whode
judgment.we are reviewing. Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1;

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Chicago & Alton Railroad v. Wiggins Ferry Co., 119 U. S. 615,
622. The only evidence upon this point was in an affidavit
of an attorney and counsellor at law of that State. The evidence is rheagre and not entirely satisfactory and conclusive.
It was, however, uncontradicted. It tended to show that the
surrogate had jurisdiction to probate the will and issue letters
testamentary and that the probate and issue of letters could
not beimpeached in a collateral proceeding; that the surrogate
had "under the laws of New Jersey full and competent jurisdiction" to make the Qrder limiting the time for creditors of
the estate to bring in their demands, and the subsequent order
that all who had neglected to do so "should be forever barred
from their action therefor against the executors of saidI deceased;" that the acts of the surrogate cannot be impeac ied
collaterally, and that the Orphans' Court had jurisdion
under the laws of New Jersey "to direct final distribution of
the estate of said testator," and it cited four cases from the
New Jersey reports, Coursen'sWill, 3 Green's Ch. 408, Quidort's
Adm'r v. Pergeaux, 18 N. J. Eq.. 472, Ryno's Ex'r v. Ryno's
Adm'r, 27 N. J. Eq. 522, and Straub's case, 49 N. J. Eq. 264. In
relying upon evidence of this kind we are quite aware that we
may not ascertain with the precision which might be desired the
credit which the State of New Jersey attaches to these judicial
proceedings. But. it is all that we can have. We think that
,we may safely infer from it that the order of the surrogate
barring all creditors who had failed to bring in the demand
from any further claim against the executors was binding upon
all. It was an order which he had "full and competent'authority to make," and it was one of the acts which could not be
impeached collaterally. We think also that the jurisdiction
to direct a final distribution means a distribution which shall
be final, so.far at least as any person having a demand against
the estate is concerned. If we have discerned correctly' the
effect which New Jersey gives to these judicial proceedings, it
is obvious that the assessment of this tax denies them full faith
and credit in two respects: First, in seeking a part of an estate

TILT v: KELSEY.
207 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

which has been finally distributed to those who were entitled
to it under the will; and, second, infixing a personal responsibility for the tax upon the executors who had been conclusively
exonerated from such a liability.
Up to this point it has been assumed that the New Jersey
court had jurisdiction to probate the will and administer the
estate, and what has been said upon the effect of the judicial
proceedings has been based upon .that assumption. When,
however, full faith and credit is demanded -for a judgment
in the courts of other States, an inquiry into the jurisdiction
is always permitted, and if it be shown that the proceedings
relied upon were without the jurisdiction of the court, they need
not be respected. Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Thormann v. Frame, 176 U. S. 350, and -cases cited.
The defendant in error, acting upon this well-settled rule,
might have attacked the jurisdiction of the New Jersey courts,
and thus brought forward for consideration many important
questions which, in the view we take of the case, need not even.
be dtated. But there was no attempt, except in argument
here, to deny the right of the New Jersey court to act upon the
paper writing purporting to dispose of the estate of Tilt, and
by admitting it to probate to convert it into an operative will.
It ia'true that, as a basis of assessing transfer taxes, it was
proved that Tilt was a resident of. New York at the time of his
death, a fact which would be relevant to the question 'ofjuris-.
diction. But that fact was not proved or used. for the purpose,
of invalidating the proceedings taken in probating the will and
administering 'the estate. On the contrary, the taxes were
.based upon the provisions of the instrument, which derived
all its authenticity as a will and all its capacity to transmit
property 'from the judicial proceedings in New Jersey. It
appears conclusively from the action taken in the New York
Surrogates' Court that there was no attempt to declare the New
Jersey proceedings void because they were taken without
jurisdiction. In the appraiser's report 'it is said that the deceased had left a.will "which was duly admitted to probate in

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

the Surrogate's Court of the county of Morris, State of New
Jersey, and that letters testamentary were issued by said
Surrogate Court." The specific legacies and the disposition of
the residue of the estate were then stated. The Surrogate, in
assessing the taxes, assessed them specifically on the beneficiaries, giving their respective names and the values of the
property they respectively took under the will. Two life estates and several remainders, -created by the will, were valued
appropriately and the taxes assessed accordingly. All this is
utterly inconsistent with an attack upon the jurisdiction, and
we need not consider whether it could have been made with
success.
It is quite obvious that what was done here was the assessment by one State of taxes upon transfers of personal property,
taking effect under the laws of another State, entirely regardless of the situs of the property transferred. This suggests
grave constitutional questions, which we cannot consider because they were not properly and seasonably raised in the court
below.
For the foregoing reasons we think that the judgment below
denied to the New Jersey proceedings the full faith and credit
to which they were entitled by the Constitution and laws of
the United States, and accordingly it is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissents.

