OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

The plaintiff had notice that the defendant meant to prevail
on whatever ground he could. He had his hearing, even if it
should be thought that he might have insisted on a ruling that
there was no evidence to support those pleas. However it is
put, the claim of a right to resort to this court after the only
Federal question has been decided in the plaintiff's favor, must
fail.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR.

JUSTICE DAY

dissent.

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS ex rel. McNICHOLS v. PEASE, SHERIFF OF COOK COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 19.

Argued October 16, 17. 1907.-Decided November 18, 1907.

Habeas corpus is an appropriate proceeding for determining whether one
held under an extradition warrant is a fugitive from justice; and he
should be discharged if he shows by competent evidence, overcoming
the presumption of a properly issued warrant, that he is not a fugitive
from the demanding State.
A faithful, vigorous enforcement of the constitutional and statutory provisions relating to fugitives from justice is vital to the harmony and
welfare of the States; and provisions of the Constitution should not be
so narrowly interpreted as to enable offenders against the laws of a State
to find a permanent asylum in the territory of another State. Appleyard
v. Massachusetts, 203 U. S. 222.
A person, held in custody as a fugitive from justice under an extradition
warrant in proper form which shows upon its face all that is -required
by law to be shown as a prerequisite to its being issued, should not be
discharged unless it clearly and satisfactorily appears that he is not'a
fugitive from justice within the meaning of the Constitution and laws
of the United States.
Where the requisition is based on an indictment for a crime committed
on a certain day, without specifying any hour, the accused does not
overcome the prima facie tase by proof that he was not at the place of
the crime for a part of that day, the record not disclosing the hour of
the crime, and it appearing that the accused might have been at the
place named during a part of the day.
On writ of error to review a final judgment in habeas corpus proceedings

McNICHOLS v. PEASE.
207 V. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

this court must determine by the record whether the state court erred
and its decision cannot be controlled or affected by an apparent admission of defendant in error that certain affidavits annexed to the petition
were used without objection as evidence.
This court takes judicial knowledge of facts known to every one as to
the distance between two neighboring cities and the time necessary to
travel from one to the other.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr: John F. Geeting for plaintiff in error:
The term "fugitive from justice," as used in § 5278, Rev.
Stat., does not apply to one who constructively commits a
crime in another State, but only to one physically present
within a State at the time of the commission of a crime and
subsequently fleeing therefrom. Hyatt. v. Corkran, 188 U. S.
691; In re Tod, 12 S. D. 386; Ex parte Smith, 3 McLean, 121.
The fact that the person demanded is a fugitive from justice
is a jurisdictional prerequisite to an extradition warrant. The
governor upon whom the demand is made has no authority
to issue his extradition warrant, unless competent proof has
been made to him that the person demanded was within the
jurisdiction of the demanding State at the time of the commission of the crime in question and subsequently fled therefrom.
Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642, 651; Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S.
80; Hyatt v. Corkran, supra; In re Jackson, 2 Flippin, 182.
A warrant for the extradition of a person cannot be lawfully
issued, unless the accused has been indicted in a court of competent jurisdiction in the demanding State, or charged by affidavit before a magistrate in such State. § 5278, Rev. Stat.
While each State has a right to create its own code of criminal
procedure, the practice of the demanding State must come
within the requirements of § 5278. The filing of an information, although consistent with the practice of the demanding
State, is not a basis for extradition proceedings; the accused is
not indicted, neither is he charged by affidavit before a magistrate. Ex parte Hart, 63 Fed. Rep. 249. In Wisconsin, where a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

justice of the peace sits as an examining magistrate, to hold to
bail or to commit for trial, an affidavit is not necessary. The
warrant issues upon oral testimony taken by the justice. §4776,
Wis. Rev. Stat.; State v. Davies, 62 Wisconsin, 305.
A written statement under oath made in the positive form, if
made under circumstances, or as to matters which indicate that
it was made upon information and belief, will be so considered.
M. & T. Bank v. Loucheims, 8 N. Y. Supp. 520; Tim v. Smith,
93 N.Y. 91; Hart v. Grant, 8 S. D. 248; S. C., 66 N. W. Rep. 622;
Finely et al. v. De Castroverde, 22 N. Y. Supp. 716; Crowns v.
Vail, 51 Hun, 204, 206; Bank of Pittsburgv. Murphy, 18 N. Y.
Supp. 575; Van Egan v. Herold, 19 N. Y. Supp. 456; Talbert v.
Strom, 21 N. Y. S upp. 719. See also Griel v. Backius, 114 Pa. St.
187, 190; Davis v. Mouat Lumber Co., 2 Colo. App. 381,387; Shattuck v. Myers, 13 Indiana, 46, 48, 49; People v. Spaulding, 2
Paige, 336.
It is not to be presumed that the alleged larceny was committed in the presence of the chief of police and the culprit
allowed to escape. A criminal complaint which does not set out
facts sufficient to constitute a crime is void, and does not confer
jurisdiction. upon- the magistrate taking it. Moore v. Watts,
Breese, 18, B. B. 42; Housh v. People, 75 Illinois, 487; Sarah
Way's Case, 41 Michigan, 299; United States v. Collins, 79 Fed.
Rep. 65; The Shattuck Case, supra; Warenzak's Case (note, 11
Am. Crim. Rep. 376); Armstrong v. Van de Venter (extradition
case), 21 Washington, 682; S. C., 12 Am. Crim. Rep. 327.
All of the elements of the crime must be stated. State v.
Murray, 41 Iowa, 580; Cranorv. State, 39 Indiana, 64; Slusser
v. State, 71 Indiana, 280; Barfield v. State, 39 Tex. Crim. Rep.
342; S. C., 11 Am. Crim. Rep. 384; State v. Cruikshank, 71,
Vermont, 94; S. C., 11 Am. Crim. Rep. 385; State v. Fi-ske, 20
R. I. 416 (and see note, 11 Am. Crim. Rep. 375). A criminal
complaint, being a statement of facts, should be at least as
specific as an indictment. Lawrence v. Brady (extradition case),
56 N. Y. 182; Vandever v. State, 1 Marvel, 209.
The words "complaint" and "affidavit " are not synony-

McNICHOLS v. PEASE.
207 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

mous; and accordingly, the word "affidavit," instead of "complaint," should be used in extradition proceedings. State v.
Richardson, 34 Minnesota, 115.
In the following extradition cases the affidavit or complaint
was held insufficient. State v. Smith, 21 Nebraska, 552; Ex
parte Spears, 88 California, 640; Ex parte McCabe, 46 Fed. Rep.
363; In re Heilbonn, 1 Parker Cr. R. 429; Ex parte Rowland,
35 Tex. Crim. Rep. 108; In re Coleman, 15 Blatchf. 406"
Mr. E. C. Lindley, Mr. John J. Healy and Mr. F. L. Barnett,
for defendant in error, submitted:
A fugitive from justice is a person charged with a crime in
the courts of one State and being there wanted to answer for
said offense is found in another State. Church on Hab. Cor.,
§§ 478, 480; Roberts v. Reily, 116 U. S.80; Ex parte Reggel, 114
U. S. 642.
Wherever the validity of a governor's warrant is made the
subject of judicial inquiry, the recitals in said warrant are to
be taken prima facie as true. Ex parte Stanley, 25 Tex. Civ.
App. 372; Church on Hab. Cor., 626, §486; Leary's Case, 10 Ben.
197; Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U. S. 709, 715; Munsey v. Clough,
196 U. S.372.
The technical sufficiency of the indictment or complaint
charging a crime against a defendant, will not be considered
on writ of habeas corpus in extradition procedure-that is a
question for the courts of the demanding State. Davis' Case,
122 Massachusetts, 324; Brown's Case, 112 Massachusetts, 409;
Ex parte Sheldon, 34 Ohio St. 319; State v. Schlenian, 4 Harr.
(Del.) 577; Ex parte Vorhees, 32 N. J. L. 141; Pea v. Brady, 56
N. Y. 182; Re Greenough, 31 Vermont, 279; Re Manchester, 5
California, 237; In re Leland, 7 Abb. Pr. N. S.64; Re Briscoe, 51
How. Pr. 422; In re Clark, 9 Wendell, 212. Technical defect of
indictment apparent upon its face wil not make void governor's
warrant. Church on Hab. Cor., 316, § 246.
Evidence of an alibi cannot defeat extradition warrant.
It is not conclusive evidence.- Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U. S. 715.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

The issue of a warrant of extradition is wholly a matter of
executive discretion, which discretion is not subject to review
by the courts. Only questions of law and fadt arising upon the
face of the record are subjects of judicial inquiry. 55 L. R. A.
325; 7 Colorado, 384; 21 Iowa, 467; 116 U. S. 80; In re Leary,
Fed. Cas. No. 8,162; 2 Spellman Ex. Rem., § 1291.
Evidentiary facts need not be set out in the affidavit. It is
sufficient to make the charge explicit and certain. Hurd on
Habeas Corpus (2d Ed.), 611.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings up for review a final judgment of
the Supreme Court of Illinois in a case of habeas corpus arising
under that clause of the Constitution providing that "a person
charged in any State with treason, felony, or other crime; who
shall flee from justice and be found in another State, shall, on
demand of the executive authority of the State from which
he Nld, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having
jurisdiction of the crime;" also, under section 5278 of the Revised Statutes, which provides, among other things, that
"whenever the executive authority of any State or Territory
demands any person as a fugitive from justice, of the executive
authority of any State or Territory to which such person has
fled, 'nd produces a copy of an indictment found or an affidavit made before a magistrate of any State or Territory,
charging the person demanded with having committed treason,
felony, or other crime, certified as authentic by the Governor
or Chief Magistrate of the State or Territory from whence the
person so charged has fled, it shall be the duty of the executive
authority of the tate or Territory to which such person has
fled to cause him to be arrested and secured, and to cause notice
of the arrest to be given to the executive authority making
such demand, or to the agent of such authority appointed to
receive the fugitive,, and to cause the fugitive to be delivered
to such agent when he shall appear."
It appears from the record that the Governor of Wisconsin

McNICHOLS v. PEASE.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

made his requisition upon the Governor of Illinois, stating that
John McNichols (the present plaintiff in error) was charged
by affidavit with the crime of larceny from the person of one
Thomas Hansen-a crime under the laws of Wisconsin-committed in the county of Kenosha, Wisconsin, and that he had
fled from the justic6 of that State and taken refuge in Illinois,
and requiring that McNichols be apprehended and delivered
to the appointed agent of Wisconsin, who was authorized to
receive and convey the accused to Wisconsin, there to be dealt
with according to law. Accompanying the requisition were
duly certified copies of three documents: 1. An official application to the Governor of Wisconsin by the District Attorney
for Kenosha County for a requisition upon the Governor of
Illinois for McNichols as a fugitive from the justice of Wisconsin, it being stated in such application that McNichols was
there charged by affidavit before a Justice of the Peace with
the crime of larceny from the person committed in that county
on the thirtieth day of September, 1905. 2. A verified complaint or affidavit before a Wisconsin Justice of the Peace,
alleging that McNichols did, on the thirtieth day of September,
A. D. 1905, at the city of Kenosba, feloniously steal, take and
carry away from the person of Thomas Hansen, against his
will, two hundred dollars, lawful money of the United States,
etc. 3. A warrant of arrest issued by such Justice of the Peace,
based on the above affidavit, for the apprehension of McNichols.
The Governor of Illinois, in conformity with the demand of
the Governor of Wisconsin, issued his warrant for the arrest
and delivery of McNichols to the agent designated by the
Governor of the latter State. That warrant recited-and its
recitals are important-: "The Executive authority of the
State of Wisconsin demands of me the apprehension and delivery of John McNiehols, represented to be a fugitive from
justice and has moreover, produced and laid before me the copy
of a complaint and affidavit made by and before a properly
empowered officer in and of the said State in accordance with
the laws thereof charging John McNichols, the person so de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

manded, with having committed against the laws of the said
State of Wisconsin the crime of larceny from the person which
appears by the said copy of a complaint and affidavit certified
as authentic by the Governor of the said State now on file in
the office of the Secretary of State of Illinois, .ndbeing satisfied that said John McNichols is a fugitive from justice and has
fled from the State of Wisconsin," etc.
Having been arrested -under the authority of that warrant,
and being in the custody of the sheriff of Cook County, Illinois,
McNichols presented his petition to the Supreme Court of that
State-whose jurisdiction in the premises is not- disputedpraying to be discharged from custody. That petition states
that prior to the issuing of the above extradition warrant he
was arrested upon a warrant issued by a Justice of the Peace in
Chicago, based upon the supposed criminal offense, and that
he presented his petition to the Criminal Court of Cook County
for a writ of habeas corpus,' setting forth that he was not a
fugitive from justice; that pending that proceeding the above
extradition warrant was issued and brought to the attention
of the Criminal Court, and thereupon that court, because of
the gravity of the case, suspended proceedings in order to give.
the accused an opportunity to apply to the Supreme Court of
Illinois for a writ of habeas corpus.
The present petition for habeas corpus presented to the Supreme Court of Illinois contained this paragraph: "Your petitioner further shows that le has heard Thomas Hansen testify in a certain habeas corpus proceeding heretofore pending
regarding this same matter [no doubt the above proceeding in
the Crimina Court of Cook County], the said Thomas Hansen
stating in his testimony that he was the same person mentioned
in said complaint, and the said Thomas Hansen then and there
testifying that the said supposed crime occurred on September
30, 1905, at the hour of tuw P. M., about a block and a half
from the Northwestern depot in Kenosha, Wisconsin; and your
petitioner. states that -he was not in the State of Wisconsin on
Septeiliber 30,. 1905, and did not commit the said offense, and

McNICHOLS v. PEASE.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in further proof thereof your petitioner herewith presents
and attaches to this petition the affidavits of John F. Graff,
William Oakley, Simon F. Bower, John A. Dennison, and
Hugh Campbell, the same being marked respectively Exhibits
C, D, E, F, and G." In one of the affidavits here referred to
the affiant stated "that upon the thirtieth day Of September,
A. D. 1905, the said John McNichols to this affiant's personal
knowledge was in the city of Chicago at about the hour of one
o'clock P.M. and that this affiant remained in the company 6f
the said McNichols until 2:15 P. M. and again, met the said
MeNichols about three o'clock P.M.said day; this affiant further
says that it would have been impossible for the said McNichols
to have been in the city of Kenosha, State of Wisconsin, on
the said thirtieth day of September, A. D. 1905." In the remaining five affidavits the respective affiants, using precisely
the same words, stated "that upon the thirtieth day of September, A. D. 1905, said John McNichols to this affiant's personal
knowledge was in the city of Chicago, the whole of the afternoon of the said day, this affiant and the said John McNichols
during the said afternoon being in attendance at a baseball game
in the said city of Chicago, between the Chicago and Boston
teams, which said game was played at the West Side Ball Park."
The record shows that the case was heard in the Supreme
Court of Illinois upon "the allegations and proofs" of the parties, and it was adjudged that the custody of the sheriff who
held the accused should not be disturbed. But no bill of exceptions was taken embodying any evidence before the Supreme
Court of Illinois. So that we do not know what were the
"proofs" adduced by the parties. The sheriff stood upon his
answer to the petition for the writ of habeas corpus. That
answer, it will be recalled, embodied the extradition warrant
issued by the Governor of Illinois.
Did the Supreme Court of Illinois err, when adjudging, as
in effect it did, that the accused did not appear to be held in
custody in violation of the Constitution and laws of the United
States?

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Some of the questions discussed at the bar have been concluded by decisions in former cases involving the meaning and
scope of the above constitutional and statutory provisions.
We will not extend this opinion by giving a full analysis of
those cases. It is sufficient to say that the following principles
are to be deduced from Robb v. Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 639;
Ex parte Reggel, 114 U. S. 642, 652-653; Roberts v. Reilly, 116
U. S. 80, 95; Hyatt v. Corkran, 188 U. S. 691, 719; Munsey v.
Clough, 196 U. S. 364, 372; Pettibonev. Nichols, 203 U. S. 192,
and Appleya'd v. Massachusettss,203 U. S. 222.
1. A person charged with crime against the laws of a State
and who flees from justice, that is, after committing the crime,
leaves t he State, in whatever way or for whatever reason, and
is found in another State, may, under the authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States, be brought back to
the State in which he stands charged with the crime, to be there
dealt with according to law.
2. When the Executive authority of the State whose laws
have been thus violated makes such a demand upon the Executive of the State in which the alleged fugitive is found as is
indicated by the above section (5278) of the-Revised Statutesproducing at the time of such demand a copy of the indictment,
or an affidavit certified as authentic and made before a magistrate charging the person demanded with a crime against the
laws of the demanding State-it becomes, under the Constitution and laws of the United States, the duty of the Executive
of the State where the fugitive is found to cause him to be
arrested, surreidered and delivered to the appointed agent
of the demanding State, to be taken to that State.
3. Nevertheless, the Executive, upon whom such demand
is made, not being authoriied by the Constitution and laws of
the United States to cause the arrest 6f one charged With crime
in another State unless he is a fugitive from justice, may decline
to issue an extradition warrant, unless it is made to appear
to him, by competent proof, that the accused is substantially charged with crime against the laws of the demanding

McNICHOLS v. PEASE.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State,' and is, in fact, a fugitive from the justice of that
State.
4. Whether the alleged criminal is or is not such fugitive
from justice may, so far as the Constitution and laws of the
United States are concerned, be determined by the Executive upon whom the demand is made in such way as he deems
satisfactory, and he is not obliged to demand proof apart from
.proper requisition papers from the demanding State, that the
accused is a fugitive from justice.
5. If it be determined that the alleged criminal is a fugitive
from justice-whether such. determination be based upon the
requisition and accompanying papers in proper form, or after
an original, independent inquiry into the facts-and if a warrant of arrest is issued after such determination, the warrant
will be regarded as making a prima facie case in favor of the
demanding State and as requiring .the removal of the alleged
criminal to the State in which he stands charged with crime,
unless in some appropriate proceeding it is made to appear that
he is not a fugitive from the justice of the demanding State.
6. A proceeding by habeas corpus in a court of competent
jurisdiction is appropriate for determining whether the accused
is subject, in virtue of the warrant of arrest, to be taken as a
fugitive from the justice of the State in which he is found to'
the State whose laws he is charged with violating.
7. One arrested and held as a fugitive from justice is entitled,
of right, upon habeas corpus, to question the lawfulness of his
arrest and imprisonment, showing by competent evidence,
as a ground for his release, that he was not, within the meaning
of the Constitution and laws of the United States, a fugitive.
from the justice of the demanding State, and thereby overcoming the presumption to the contrary arising from the face
of an extradition warrant.
Turning now to the record of this case we find that the accused is in custody under an extradition warrant which appears
upon its face to be warranted by the Constitution and laws
of the United States. But we fail to find evidence sufficient to

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

overcome the prima facie case thus made by that warrant.
It is said that the plaintiff in error was not in the State of Wisconsin on the day when the alleged larceny from the person
of Hansen was committed; therefore, it is contended, he could
not have committed the crime charged, and thereafter become
a fugitive from the justice of that State. If the authorities
of Wisconsin were bound by the date named in the requisition
papers, which we do not- concede (1 Pomeroy's Archbold's Cr.
Pr. & P1. 363), still the record presents no such case as is contended for by the accused. It was incumbent upon him, by
competent proof, to rebut the presumption arising on the face
of the extradition warrant and requisition papers that he was
a fugitive from justice for a crire committed in Wisconsin on
September 30, 1905. As already stated, no bill of exceptions
embracing the evidence was taken and we cannot,. therefore,
say that the proofs established the fact that the accused was
not a fugitive as charged, as stated in the warrant of arrest.
It is argued, however, that the affidavits accompanying the
petition for habeas corpus show that the accused was not in
Wisconsin when the crime in question was alleged to have been
committed. The record does not justify us in assuming that
those affidavits were iii fact offered as evidence, or were used
with the consent of the State as evidence, or were treated as
evidence by the Supreme Court of Illinois. It is true that the
counsel for the sheriff uses some language in his brief which is
construed as admitting that the affidavits were used, without
objection, as evidence. But such an apparent admission cannot control or affect our decision; for, whether the Supreme
Court of Illinois erred in its final judgment must be determined
by the record before us.
But if it be assumed that the affidavits were accepted in
the court below as evidence the result must still be the same;
for the affidavits do not satisfactorily establish the fact that
the accused was absent from Wisconsin when the alleged crime
in question was committed. The charge, as set forth in the
requisition papers, was- that he committed the crime of larceny

McNICHOLS v. PEASE.
207 U. S.

. ill

Opinion of the Court.

from the person of Hansen on the thirtieth day of September,
1905-no particular hour of that day being mentioned-while
the affidavits import nothing more than that McNichols was
at Chicago at one o'clock and during the whole of the afternoon
of that day. The affidavits give no account of the whereabouts
of McNichols during the forenoon of the day specified in the
papers accompanying the requisition by the Governor of Wisconsin. We know, because everyone knows without the testimony of witnesses, that Kenosha, the place of the alleged crime,
is only a short distance-within not more than one hour and
a half's travel, by rail-from' Chicago. It was entirely possible
for the accused to have passed the whole or a larger part of
the forenoon of September 30, in that city, and yet have been
in Chicago at one o'clock and during the whole afternoon of
the same day. So that the affidavits relied on by no means
prove the absence of the accused from Wisconsin during the
whole of the thirtieth day of September.
Here, it is suggested, that the crime, if committed at all,
was committed at two o'clock of September 30, while the affidavits show that McNichols was at Chicago at one o'clock and
during the entire afternoon of that day. So far as the record
discloses this suggestion finds no support in anything said or
done at the hearing by those who opposed the discharge of
the accused. The requisition papers do not state. that the alleged crime was committed at two o'clock or at any other
specified hour of the day named. The whole foundation for
the suggestion was an allegation in the petition for the writ,
in this case, to the effect that the accused had heard Thomas
Hansen testify in another habeas corpus proceeding that the
crime was committed at two o'clock on the day named. But
the record does not show that Hansen or any other person so
testified in the present case. Indeed, it does not appear that
anyone testified orally before the court-not even McNichols.
Upon the record before us it must be taken that McNichols
was charged with committing the crime in question on the
thirtieth day of September, and that. he could have been at

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Kenosha during the forenoon of that day, although he may
have been, as stated in the affidavits, in Chicago during the
whole of the afternoon of the same day. So that the accused
entirely failed to overcome the prima facie case made by the
official documents before the court of his having become a
fugitive from the justice of Wisconsin, after committing a
crime against its laws on the thirtieth day of September, 1905.
When a person is held- in custody as a fugitive from justice
under an extradition warrant, in proper form, and showing
upon its face all that is required by law to be shown as a prerequisite to its being issued, he should not be discharged from
custody unless it is made clearly and satisfactorily to appear
that he is not a fugitive from justice within the meaning of the
Constitution and laws of the United States. We may repeat
the thought expressed in Appleyard's case, above cited, that a
faithful, vigorous enforcement of the constitutional and stattory provisions relating to fugitives from justice is vital to
the harmony and welfare of the States, and that "while a State
should take care, within the limits of the law, that the rights
of its people are protected against illegal action, the judicial
authorities of the Union should equally take care that the provisions of the Constitution be not so narrowly interpreted as
to enable offenders against the laws of a State to find a permanent asylum in the territory of another State."
No error appearing in the record, the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Illinois must be affirmed.
It is so ordered.

