OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

HEATH & MILLIGAN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
WORST.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 41. Argued November 7, 8, 1907.-Decided December 9, 1907.

It is within the power of the State to prevent the adulteration of articles
and to provide for the publication of their composition.
Legislation which regulates business may well make distinctions depend upon
the degrees of evil without being arbitrary, unreasonablei or in conflict
with the equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Federal Constitution. See" Ozan Lumber' Co. v. Union County Bank,
ante, p. 251.
This court will not limit the power of the State by declaring that because the
judgment exercised by the-legislature is unwise it amounts to a denial of
the equal protection of the laws or deprivation of propbrty or liberty without due process of law.
The statute Qf North Dakota requiring the manufacturers and vendors of
mixed paints to label the ingredients composing them is not unconstitutional as depriving such manufacturers of their property or liberty without due process of law or as denying them the equal protection of the
law because the requirements of the statute may not apply to paste
paints.
THIS is a direct appeal from the Circuit Court for the District
of North Dakota, sustaining the constitutionality of a statute
of that State, requiring the manufacturers of mixed paints to
label the ingredients composing them.
The statute is as follows:
"An Act to prevent the adulteration of and deception in the
sale of white lead and mixed paints.
"Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of North
Dakota: 1. Every person, firm or corporation who manufactures
,or sale or exposes for sale, or sells, within this State, any white
-ad, paint or compound intended for use as such, shall label-.

HEATH & MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the same in clear and distinct open gothic letters upon a white
background and show the true per cent of each mineral constituent contained in said paint, or if other than linseed oil
is used in its preparation, the names of such oils or substitutes
shall be shown together with the percentage thereof, and every
person, firm or corporation who manufactures for sale, or exposes for sale or sells within this State any mixed paint or
compound intended for use as such, which contains any ingredient other than pure linseed oil, pure carbonate of lead, oxide of zinc, turpentine, Japan dryer and pure colors, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall, for each offense, be punished by a fine of not less than
twenty-five and not more than one hundred dollars and costs,
or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding sixty
days; provided, that any such person, firm or corporation who
shall manufacture for sale or expose for sale, or sell within
this State any white lead, paint or mixed paint containing ingredients other .than those as above enumerated, shall not be
deemed guilty of a violation of this act in case the same be
properly labeled showing the quantity or amount of each and
every ingredient used therein and not specified above, and the
name and residence of the manufacturer or person for whom
it is manufactured."
It is made the duty of the appellee in his official capacity to
enforce the statute. A few days before the statute took effect
(January 1, 1906) the appellants filed a bill to restrain its enforcement, and prayed a preliminary as well as a permanent
injunction. A preliminary injunction was granted. It was dissolved on final hearing, and a decree was entered dismissing
the bill for want of equity.
The grounds of attack upon the statute are that it offends
against the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, in that it deprives appellants of their property
and liberty without due process of law, and denies them the
equal protection of the laws. How it is contended the statute
produces these effects will be pointed out hereafter.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

The stress of the case is upon paragraph 17 of the bill and
the special paragraphs "A" and "B". To these paragraphs.
an answer was filed. The legal effect of the others was submitted upon demurrer. Upon the issue of fact formed by the
answer to paragraph 17 and the special paragraphs,' testimony
*was taken, and upon it and the demurrer to the other allegations, and the affidavit of one Professor Ladd, the case was
submitted.
The bill is voluminous. It alleges that the plaintiffs aie
manufacturers of mixed paints and sell their respective products in North Dakota, and that each "had established an
enviable reputation for its goods;" that each sold in North
Dakota mixed paints containing ingredients other than those
specified in the statute, which is set out. It is alleged that
mixed paint has an absolutely defined meaning in the- trade,
and means a paint so thinned, "by admixture of the proper
liquid vehicles, as to reduce it to a consistency which makes it
ready for use." The term "mixed paint," it is alleged, is used
in contradistinction to "a paste paint," which paint has also a
well defined meaning, meaning a paint ready for use, except
that it requires thinning material to give it the necessary consistency. White lead, it is alleged, is a commercial, not a
scientific term, and is commonly understood to be a dry powder
consisting of commercial carbonate of lead. When ground in
oil to a paste consistency it is commonly called in the trade white
lead in oil, colloquially referred to frequently as "white lead."
In the statute these terms are used interchangeably, and are
intended to denote white lead in oil, as above defined. That
various compounds containing no carbonate of lead or other
ingredients in addition to carbonate of lead are frequently sold
in the market labeled as "white lead." And that the words
"any white lead paint, or compound intended for use as such,"
in the act "are intended to denote a paste paint, intended as a
substitute for white lead and labelled or sold as 'white lead' or.
'white lead in oil,' but which does not contain any carbonate
of lead or contains other ingredients in addition thereto."

HEATH & MILLIGAN, CO. v. WORST.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Paragraph 17 is as follows:
"Your orators further show unto your honors that the manufacture of paint, and more particularly of mixed paint, involves
many practical problems, the proper solution of which demands
the application of a variety of scientific principles and is the
result of a great variety of practical tests. and experiments;
that the means, methods and processes employed in said manufacture have changed materially in the course of years to conform to the discovery of new scientific facts and the results of
practical experiments; that the technology of paint manufacturing has made gradual and constant progress during the last,
fifty years, during which time it has undergone an evolutionary
process which is still far from completed; that until about
twenty-five years ago carbonate of lead was the only material
which was universally conceded by manufacturers and users of
paint to be a proper pigment to be used in paints requiring or
admitting of the use of a white pigment; .that since said time,
and within the last twenty-five years,.odde of zinc gradually
gained recognition among manufacturers and users of paint as
being equally appropriate for the purposes for which theretofore carbonate of lead had alone been recognized as appropriate,
and has come to be universally conceded as possessing important useful qualities as a white pigment not possessed by L.,rbonate of lead; that within the last fifteen years practical experiments and tests, made with a view to widening the range
of white pigments properly usable in the manufacture of paint,
have demonstrated the following facts, which are now conceded by the most advanced and most successful naint manufacturers of the world, viz:
"a. That there are materials other than carbonate of lead
and oxide of zinc which in some cases may be used in connection
therewith and in other cases may be used instead thereof, and
which, either without carbonate of lead or oxide of zinc, or in
connection with one or both of these, according to circumstances, are as efficient as, and in some respects more efficient
than, carbonate of lead or oxide of zinc, or a combination of

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

the two for the purposes for which the latter are used in paint;
that among said materials are (a) sublimed lead (which is an
artificial product consisting of sulphate of lead and oxy-sulphate
of lead), (b) standard zinc lead white (which is commonly called
zinc lead and is an artificial product made by the United States
Smelting Company and sold in large quantities, and consists
of a combination of sulphate of lead and oxide of zinc united
by a furnace process), (c) zinc made from Western ores, which
carries in its natural composition varying proportions of sulphate of lead and oxide of zinc, and (d) an artificial opaque
white pigment, consisting essentially of zinc sulphide, zinc
oxide and barium sulphate, which is known to the paint manufacturing trade under various trade names, such as lithopone,
ponolith, lithophone, charlton white, becton white and Orr's
white.
"b. That there are certain white pigments other than carbonate of lead and oxide of zinc which constitute proper and
useful ingredients of paints, and which, if so used in connection
with carbonate of lead or oxide of zinc, or a combination of the
same, or in connection with one or more of said other materials
described in the last preceding paragraph as proper substitutes
for carbonate of lead and oxide of zinc, furnish to the paint
wherein used important useful qualities not possessed by either
carbonate of lead or oxide of zinc, or any of said substitutes
therefor; that among said other pigments are sulphate of
barium, silica, silicate of magnesia, calcium carbonate, hydrated sulphate of lime, and others; that the proportionate
amount of the pigments last named which may properly and
usefully be made an ingredient of paint, and whether any of
them may be properly used as such ingredient depends upon a
great variety of conditions and circumstances, but all of said
pigments may, under proper conditions, serve a highly useful
purpose and where properly used do essentially increase the
durability and density of the paint."
It is further alleged that the statute in condemning inferentially the use of the materials mentioned in paragraph 17, and

HEATH & MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
207 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

its sub-paragraphs, "as ingredients of mixed paint and branding them as adulterants, ignores the fact that all said substances constitute proper, useful and necessary ingredients of
paint, is based upon antiquated, obsolete and quite generally
discarded prejudices regarding the ingredients proper, useful
and necessary to be used in paint, and is therefore unreasonable
and void."
That complainants and most of the successful paint manufacturers of the United States have for many years maintained
and continue to maintain, in connection with-their factories,
chemical laboratories, wherein are able, accomplished chemical
.experts,, who are ccnstantly conducting experiments in the
qualities and properties of new ingredients to produce the best
results regarding the purposes of paint, the materials upon
which it is used. and the various conditions to which it may be
exposed. And that the business success of such manufacturers
largely depends upon the efficiency of said laboratories and
experiments, "and their readiness and ability to conform their
methods of manufacturing to the truths discovered by said
investigations and tests." That such experiments have led to
the adoption of improved methods of manufacture and the use
of a widening range of ingredients and a constantly increasing
degree of efficiency in the paint produced, and if continued "is
sure to .bring about a still higher and gradually increasing degree of merit and efficiency in the paint of the future."
Other allegations of the bill set forth the virtues and useful.ness of varnish as a vehicle or thinning material of mixed
paint in connection with or in place of one or other of the ingredients of the statute for some purposes"and situations, and
that the statute by excluding it brands it as an adulterant, and
is hence void. The bill also charges the statute with inaccuracy
in its designation of pure carbonate of lead as one of the ingredients of mixed paint specified, and alleges that it cannot be
used for the purpose of manufacturing paint, and that the carbonate of lead, which is commonly used and has been used from
time immemorial, even in paints of the higher grade, contains

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

approximately twenty to thirty per cent of other ingredients.
It is hence charged that the statute, by specifying "pure"
carbonate of lead, and prohibiting as a crime the use of corn-.
mercial carbonate of lead, "without specifying on a label
quantity or amount of each of its ingredients is unreasonable
and void." The bill also attacks with much detail.the terin
"pure colors ' in the enumeration of the ingredients by the
statute, alleges that such term neither has a definite meaning
among the manufacturers of such coloring material nor among
manufacturers of paint, nor is it capable of an exact or even
an approximately exact definition; that there is no line of demarkation between pure and impure colors; that while some
dry colors are regarded as "pure" and others "impure" by
some manufacturers, there is nothing approaching a consensus
of opinion upon the subject, and no rational classification has
been attempted; that the standard universally applied to dry
colors is not purity but efficiency; that, with the exception of
a very few dry colors of limited use in mixed paints, even the
very highest and most expensive grades made or imported
contain large and widely varying percentages of elements which
have no coloring properties. Illustrations are given, and the
bill charges "that said act, in specifying 'pure colors' among the
ingredients of mixed paint, and making the use of any but
'pure colors' as such ingredient a crime, unless the manufacturer or dealer stigmatizes the paint by a label as required in
said act, is so uncertain and unreasonable as to be void."
It is also alleged that the only purposes for which paint is
used is to preserve and beautify, and that that paint is most
efficient which accomplishes those purposes for the longest
time, and that any ingredient which tends to such ends is a
proper ingredient; that there is no natural standard of the
purity of paint, nor'a widely accepted standard; that any enumeration of allowable ingredients, short of an exhaustive
enumeration of ingredients, which may under particular circumstances and conditions give to paint a useful quality, is
necessarily unjust and unreasonable, and even such enumera-

HEATH & MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

tion, though just to-day, by discoveries may be unjust tomorrow; that to produce an efficient paint not the ingredients
alone must be considered, but the mnanner and the proportion
of every combination and the purpose and conditions of the
use of the paint; that it is, therefore, impossible to speak of a
standard of purity as applied to paint, "nor is it reasonable
for any statute to attempt to set up a standard of efficiency of
paint by an enumeration of allowable ingredients, the only
test of the efficiency of paint being its ability to serve the purposes for which it is intended."
It is further alleged that the requirement of the statute "is
intended and calculated to create in the minds of the mixed
paint dealers and consumers in the State of North Dakota the
erroneous belief that all ingredients of mixed Oaint other than
those specified in said act are adulterants used for the purpose
of cheapening the product, and add no quality of usefulness or
efficiency to the mixed paint wherein they are used; that said
act in requiring mixed paint containing any ingredients other
than those specified in said act as aforesaid, to be labelled as
aforesaid, is a requirement that the' manufacturer of and
dealer in such paint shall brand the same in such a way as to
hold it up to the suspicion and prejudice of the users of mixed
paint, and thereby make the sale thereof in said State, if not
impossible, at least more difficult and expensive."
That the excluded ingredients (they are enumerated in the
bill) will have no tendency by their use to render "mixed paint
by those applying the same harmful to health in any sense or
degree." - That while such act was intended as a police regulation for the prevention of fraud, its provisions are such that it
has no tendency to accomplish such end; that the act, by failing
to specify the maximum and minimum of the proportionate
amount of the ingredients specified, permits the manufacture
and sale of mixed paint containing those ingredients in such
proportions as to make it absolutely inefficient and useless and
a fraud upon the purchaser; that by holding up to the prejudice of dealers in and users of other mixed paint has the ten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

dency, in. many instances, to give inferior brands a preference
over superior brands of mixed paint. And that such act has
no tendency to accomplish the prevention of fraud, because it
does not prevent the manufacture and sale "of any imaginable
paint concoction in paste form," or impure linseed oil, or any
spurious article, as "white lead," or "white lead in oil," or as
"white lead paint," because a paint ready for use may be lawfully made of such concoctions and substitutes; "that the manufacture and sale of paste paint is a substantial part of the paint
manufacturing and selling business of the United States; that
millions of dollars worth of white lead in oil and compounds
intended as substitutes therefor are annually manufactured and
sold in the United States; that tinting colors for use as an ingredient of paint are manufactured in large quantities and sold
in cans, in paste form, throughout the United States; that linseed oil, as such, is an article of commerce throughout the
United States;" and that the statute, by failing to place restriction on the manufacture or sale of such paint and material,
but imposing penalties and restrictions on the manufacturers
of mixed paint, unjustly discriminates against the latter, and,
for the same reason and "the other facts and, circumstances"
stated in the bill, they will be deprived of their property without due process of law.
It was also alleged that each of the complainants manufactures "scores of different kinds and shades of mixed paints,
differing from each other in chemical composition; that even
the same kind and shade of mixed paint manufactured by any
one of your orators has no fixed chemical composition, but
varies in such composition from time to time and practically
with each lot manufactured, by reason of the wide variations
in the chemical composition of the constituent ingredients,
more especially the chemical composition of the dry colors used;
that in order to properly label the cans of mixed paint manufactured by your orators and sold in North Dakota showing
'the quantity or amount of each and every ingredient used
therein, and not specified' in said act, each of your orators

HEATH & MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
207 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

would have to have a chemical analysis made of each lot of
mixed paint before putting the same up in cans or other containers." It is alleged that this would add materially to the
,cost of manufacture of mixed paints, cast a burden upon them,
from which the manufacturers of other paints are free, and
would deprive them of their property without due process of law.
It is further alleged that there are dealers in North Dakota
who have on hand stock of mixed paint subject to the act and
who will be subject to criminal prosecution unless the cans
containing the same be opened and analyzed and labelled,
which opening would make the paint unsalable; that dealers
who in the future shall purchase from any of the complainants,
and the distributing agents and salesmen of complainants,
will be subject to criminal prosecution, that thereby a multiplicity of criminal prosecutions will ensue and suits to enforce
payments for paints sold or to be sold. And if the complainants should label the mixed paints manufactured by them. as
required by the act they would not only be subject to the expense thereof, but that their products will be held up to suspicion and prejudice of the dealers in and users of the same, which
will make it either impossible or more difficult and expensive to
sell their products in said State, all of which will produce incalculable and irreparable injury to complainants; that the
•dealers in- paints who are now subject or may be subject to
prosecution under such act will not have sufficient interest to
or can successfully raise the defense of the invalidity of the act,
"inasmuch as such defense involves the consideration of the
complex state of facts hereinbefore set forth."
Fear is expressed that most of such prosecutions will result
in conviction, and that by such the brands of mixed paints
involved therein will be branded as adulterated and illegal
products, and will thereby be rendered unsalable, all of which
will produce incalculable and irreparable injury to complainants, and will constitute the taking of their property without
due process of law and the-denial to them of the equal protection of the laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

207 U. S.

It is difficult to separate the admissions and denials of the
answer to paragraph 17. It admits that practical problems
are involved in the manufacture of paints, particularly of mixed
paints, the solution of which is the result of a variety of practical
tests and experiments; "that the technology of paint manufacture has made gradual and constant progress during the
past fifty years, during which time it has undergone an evolutionary process." It admits that formerly carbonate of lead
was the only material which was universally used as the proper
pigment used in paints requiring or admitting of the use of a
white pigment, and that oxide of zinc has gained recognition
as in many cases appropriate as a white pigment, but denies
that such recognition has come within the last twenty-five
years; on the contrary, asserts it has been recognized and used
for a period of thirty years. Admits that there are materials
other than carbonate of lead and oxide of zinc used in connection with the latter or instead of them, but denies their equal
efficiency; on the contrary, alleges that tests and experiments
have not determined or demonstrated the value and useful.ness
of such materials, and further alleges that their use and value
have not progressed beyond the experimental stage. That
about one-half of the leading manufacturers entirely reject
them, or, reject them because upon test they have proved to
be unsatisfactory and inefficient, and others that time has not
yet demonstrated their value. Admits that zinc made from
Western ores is valuable and efficient as a pigment, provided
sulphate of lead incidental to its production does not exceed in
quantity 5 per cent of its constituent elements, and alleges that
the percentagesof the sulphate of lead are wi elr different.
The answer to sub-paragraph "b" of paragraph 17 admits
that in making the colored paints there mentioned it is necessary to employ some of the articles mentioned in connection
with some pigment other than carbonate of lead; and that the
latter would change or modify the exact shades sought to be
produced. But it is alleged on information and belief that the
aggregate of all mixed paints produced, sold and consumed in

HEATH & MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
207 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

North Dakota, in the preparation of which it is necessary to
exclude carbonate of lead and to include one -or more of the
substituted materials mentioned in the bill, does not exceed 25
per cent of the aggregate of all mixed paints which may be prepared and produced by the use alone of carbonate of lead and
oxide of zinc as pigments. Save as to those admitted, the answer denies the efficiency of the materials mentioned, and avers
that the general use of them is "to cheapen and adulterate the
paints wherein they are employed," and of all substances known
they are best adapted and lend themselves most readily and
are commonly used as adulterants to cheapen mixed paints. It
is further averred that 70 to 75 per cent of the paints used in
the State are mixed paints, and that their adulteration has
becofihe and is a great evil. "That no other substances have
been discovered or known, which, by their inherent qualities,
lend themselves so readily to or are so commonly employed for
such purpose of fraud and deception as those described in said
sub-paragraph 'b.'"
Mr. Sigmund Zeisler, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stern was on
the brief, for appellants:
Corporations are persons within the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150, 154.
The classification, though ostensibly between paints, is in
reality between paint manufacturers. Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
The exercise of the police power must be reasonable. The
question of the reasonableness of a state statute ostensibly
passed in the exercise of the police power is a judicial question.
Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Lake Shore & M. S. R.
Co. v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285, 301; Wisconsin, M. & P. R. Co. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 301;'Dobbinsv. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.
223, 235; Lawton v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 137; Holden v.. Hardy,
169 U. S. 366, 395; Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150; Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45; Chicago, B. & Q.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

207 U. S.

R. Co. v. Illinois, 200 U. S. 561, 592; Lake Shore & M. S. R.
Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684; Long v. Maryland, 74 Maryland,
565.
While every intendment is to be made in favor of the lawfulness of the exercise of this power, the courts will not imagine the
existence of some undisclosed and unknown reason for its exercise. The simple decision of the legislature cannot be held to
constitute such reason. Lake Shore & M. S. R. Co. v. Smith,
173 U. S. 684, 699; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223, 237;
Gull, C. & S. F. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150, 154; Lochner v.
New York, 198 U. S. 45, 56.
A statute ostensibly passed in the exercise of the police power
must be judged by its natural effect and not by its proclaimed
purpose.
A statute which restrains the liberty or property rights of
individuals, though ostensibly passed in the exercise of the
police power, cannot be held valid, unless it has a real or substantial relation to some legitimate object of the police power
which its provisions reasonably tend to accomplish. Lochner
v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, 64; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623,
661; C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. Illinais,200 U. S. 561, 593.; Gull, C.
& S. F. R. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
Even if a statute is fairly referable to the police power of the
State, still if it impairs or destroys a right secured by the
Federal Constitution, it is invalid. Connolly v. Union Sewer
Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558.
In making regulations, providing penalties or imposing liabilities in the exercise of the police power, the legislature has
the right to make classifications. But classification must have
some reasonable basis.' The differences which will support
class legislation must be such as in the nature of things furnish
a reason for separate laws. The differences must bear a reasonable relation to thepurpose of the statute. Arbitrary designation or selection is not classification. When burdens are placed
upon some and not upon others similarly situated with respect
to the purpose for which such burdens are imposed, the classi-

HEATH & MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
207 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

fication is arbitrary and illegal. Cases supra and Soon Hing v.
Crowley, 113 U. S. 703, 709; Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27;
Cotting v. Kansas City St. Yds. Co., 183 U. S. 79; Lumar.
Hitchins Bros. Co., 90 Maryland, 14; Missouri v. Ashbrook, 154
Missouri, 375; State v. Julow, 129 Missouri, 163; Bailey v. The
People, 190 Illinois, 28.
The liberty guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment
embraces the right of the citizen to be free in the enjoyment of
all his faculties; to be free to use them in all lawful ways.
Allgeyer v. Louisiana,165 U. S. 578.
To enjoy the privilege of pursuing an ordinary calling or
trade upon terms of equality with all others in similar circumstances, is an essential part of the rights of liberty and property
as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 684; People v. Hawkins, 157 N. Y.
1; Bailey v. People, 190 Illinois, 28, 35.
Any law which, without a valid reason, annihilates the value
of property, restricts its use or takes away any of its essential
attributes by imposing onerous conditions upon the right to
hold or sell it, deprives its owner of property without due process of law. To require a label upon some mixed paints while
exempting others, is not only to burden them with peculiar
expense, but also to require them to bear a badge of inferiority
which diminishes their value and impairs their selling qualities.
People v. Hawkins, 157 N. Y. 1.
To restrict one's freedom of competition upon equal terms
with others in the same business is prohibition. Brimmer v.
Rebrann, 138 U. S. 78.
The Eourteenth Amendment forbids that any impediment
be interposed by a state statute to the pursuits of. any one except as applied to the same pursuits by others standing in the
same relation to the purpose of the statute. Barbierv. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27; Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703; Connolly v.
Uni6n Se'wer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Gulf, C. & S. F. R. Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Cotting v. Kansas City !St. Yds. Co., 183
U. S. 79.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellee.

207 U. S.

Mr. John S. Watson, with whom Mr. T. F. McCue, Attorney
General of the State of North Dakota, was on the brief, for
appellee:
Assuming that the act sets up a standard of purity or efficiency and puts the paint containing substituted pigments at a
disadvantage by requiring a label, it is yet constitutional, because the classification is warranted by the situation disclosed
in the record.
The act, the validity of which is drawn in question, in fact
makes no discrimination for or against complainants. It establishesno standard of purity or efficiency. It deals with carbonate of lead and oxide of zinc, with which all are familiar, by
saying that all persons, firms and corporations employing them
as pigments in the preparation of mixed paints may do so
without labeling the product.
If the act does not include paste paint (which we do not
admit) such omission goes only to the completeness of the law,
to its failure to deal with the whole subject. It does not render
it unconstitutional. Complainants may, like all others, sell
unlabeled paste paint of whatever ingredients composed.
It is enough if the law has some tendency to accomplish the
-desired end. Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U.. S. 678.
The act in question is well calculated to prevent the perpetration of fraud. It enables intending purchasers to know what
they are buying. It prevents dishonest manufacturers from
palming off upon the public cheaper, substances for more expensive ones. It pjts every substance used as an ingredient
upon its own distinctive merits or lack of them, and prevents
the inferior article from being sold for what it is not. The class
"B" pigments are the substitutes most extensively used for,
and which by their inherent character lend themselves most
readily to, the adulteration of mixed paints. The record abundantly substantiates the foregoing statements.
The police power of the State enbraces its whole system of
internal regulation and is as broad and plenary in its effect as
the taxing power itself. It embraces all regulations designed

HEATH & MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to promote the public convenience or the general prosperity as
well as those intended to promote the public health or the public morals or the public safety. Cooley's Const. Lim., p. 829
(7th ed.); Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; R. R. v. People, 200
U. S. 561; Crossman v. Lurman, 171 N. Y. 329; Schollenberger
v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Lawtonv. Steele, 152 U. S. 133.
The police power will be upheld for the prevention of fraud
or deception upon the public and to promote fair dealings.
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, supra; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S. 461; State v. Snow,-81 Iowa, 642; State v. Aslesen, 50 Minnesota, 5; State v. Hanson, 84 Minnesota, 42. See
also CapitalCity Drug Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

It appears from the evidence that the statute which is assailed by appellants was one, among others, passed to prevent
the adulteration of articles or to irovide for the publication of
their composition. That both purposes are within the competency of the State can hardly be denied. . A discrimination
is, however, asserted to have been made in the exercise of the
power, with the following results: (1) The imposition of the
burden of analyzing and labelling the ingredients of mixed
paints, from which burden the manufacturers of paste paint
and manufacturers of mixed paints containing only the ingredient specified in the act are to be free. (2) Holding up to the
prejudice of dealers in and users of mixed paints containing
ingredients other than those specified, branding them as suspicious or adulterated, and rendering them unsalable or less
salable than mixed paints containing the statutory ingredients,
though more efficient than the latter for certain purposes. We
can see that expense will be cast on the manufacturers of mixed
paint not containing ingredients enumerated in the statute,
but that such paint will be branded as adulterated is-not easy
to accept, and seems to be opposed by other allegations in the
VOL. ccvn-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

bill. It is averred that the complainants have a yearly increasing trade in the State of North Dakota which has attained to
many thousands of dollars per annum, and that by the high
quality of their goods and by advertising they have attained
an enviable reputation for them. How the firmness and profit
of that trade, how the excellence and degree of that reputation,
can be affected by revealing the composition of the goods, is
not by us discernible. Manufacturers who use inferior materials because they are so or from a mistaken opinion of their
quality, though they have statutory sanction, would be more
affected than complainants. Consumers of paint, we may
assume, like the consumers of other kinds of goods, seek excellence in them, and where excellence is demonstrated by use
will care little of what pigments it is composed. This, however,
is anticipating somewhat, and we will pass to the statute, con-,
sider its purpose and see whether its classification is justified
by that purpose.
We will omit from citation the cases in which this court
has passed upon the power of the States to classify objects for
not necessary
the purpose of government. A review of them is
in this case. Counsel have collected and analyzed them, applied
or rejected them as they have thought they supported or opposed their respective contentions. We have declared many
times, and illustrated the declaration, that classification must
have relation 'to the purpose of the legislature. But logical
appropriateness of the inclusion or exclusion of objects or persons is not required. A classification may not be merely arbitrary, but necessarily there must be great freedom of discretion,
even though it result in "ill-advised, unequal and oppressive
legislation." Mobile Co. v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691. And this
necessarily on account of the complex problems which are presented to government. Evils must be met as they arise and
according'to the manner in which they arise. The right remedy
may not always be apparent. Any interference; indeed, may
be asserte'to, be evil, may r~sult in evil. At any rate, exact
wisdom and nice adaptation of remedies are not required by

HEATH
207 U. S:

MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
Opipiou of the Court.

the Fourteenth. Amendment, nor the crudeness nor the impiolicy nor even the injustice of state laws redressed by it.
Keeping these principles in mind, let us examine the North
Dakota statute. Its purpose, as expressed -inthe -title, is .' to
prevent the adulteration of and deception in the sale of white
lead and nixed pjints." It attempts to accomplish this' purpose by the following requirements: ().All white lead and coinpounds intended for use as a substitute therefor must be labelled
to clearly show the per. cent of each mineral therein. (2) All
mixed paints must show their true composition, unless made
of pure linseed oil, carbonate of lead or oxide of zinc, turpentine,Japan dryer and pure colors. (3)-All substitutes for linseed
oil in the preparation of paints must be clearly shown on the
label.
The second and third divisions we are concerned with in this
case, and it is insisted their requirements work a discrinmination
between mixed paints which contain and those which. do not
contain any ingredients other than those specified. It will be
observed that the manufacture for sale and the selling of the
first kind is made a misdemeanor unless the paint be labelled
as required by the statute. The manufacture or sale of the
other kind is free from such consequence 6r condition. It is
also charged that the statute discriminiates between mixed
paints and paste paints, it being asserted that the latter, -no
matter what their ingredients, heed not be labelled. To this
charge we may immediately answer that it is open to contest
whether the act exempts paste paint from its requirements, and
the, executive officers of the State have construed it as not
exempting, them, But be this as it may, there is a distinction
'between the:paints, and the evils to which the 'statute was
addressed may not exist or be as flagrant in one as in the other.
There, indeed, may be a degree of competition between them,
but other circumstances and conditions may have directed
the legislative discretion. This reqord certainly does not
present any data to make it certain that the discretion was
arbitrarily exercised. Legislation which regulates business

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

may well make distinctions depend upon the degrees of evil
without being arbitrary or unreasonable. Ozan Lumber Co.
v. Union County National Bank et al., ante, page 251.
2. The argument which attacks the discrimination between
mixed paints is an elaboration of paragraph 17 of the bill. It
is able, cirgumstantial and variously illustrated. It has been
given careful consideration, but it would extend this opinion
too much to answer it in detail or review its specifications. It
is ultimately grounded on the contention that the pigments
enumerated in the statute, and hence denominated statutory
pigments, are not more efficient-maybe not as efficient to the
manufacture of paint, either in themselves or as depending upon
the particular use to .which paint may be put, the proportion
Of ingredients varying with such use, or even with the fancy or
taste of*.the user, or the atmospheric conditions to which paint
may be exposed, as the pigments mentioned in sub-paragraphs
"A" and "B" of paragraph 17, and hence called class."A"
and class "B" pigments. And, it is contended,, that there is.
"neither a standard of ptirity nor a general or widely adcepted
standard of purity," and that the statute, by making a standard
of some ingredients and excluding others "useful, efficient,
harmless and in some cases most essential," is an arbitrary
discrimination and an improper exercise of the police power of
the State, not .justified by the comparative newness of the excluded ingredients, or because they are not used by unprogressive manufacturers, or used by unscrupulous ones in excessive
proportions to cheapen their products. And this, it is urged,
is all that is established against such ingredients. Besides, it
is further urged, the charge that they are used to cheapen
paint is true of one of the statutory ingredients.
The claims for class " A" and "B " pigments are controverted,
and if they are sustained at all are sustained upon the balancing
of and the judgment between the testimony of experts, certain
publications and exhibits. But a problem of a different kind
was presented to the legislature of North Dakota. It was not
what scientific men might find out by ;hemical and laboratory

HEATH & MILLIGAN CO. v. WORST.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tests, or progressive men might discover by practical ex.periments, but what the people of the State could find out or be justified in accepting as established. It was the experience of the
people, not the acts of some progressive manufacturers, which
directed the legislation, and it was to protect the people, when
following the opinions formed from that experience, from de•ception, that the statute was enacted. It may be that the purpose could have been accomplished better in some other way.
It may be that it would have been more entirely adequate, let
us say, even more entirely just, to have required that all paint
should be labelled, the statute nevertheless cannot be brought
under the condemnation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Legislatures, as we have seen,, have the constitutional power to
make unwise classifications. -But we may be going too far in
concession to the argument of appellants. The legislature of
North Dakota may have met the evils which exist as best it
could, and there is a strong presumption that it did. At any
rate, a fair question was presented, whether to take as a standard the ingredients that years of use had demonstrated as excellent or make regulation universal. We think it would be
limiting the power of the State too much to say that a judgment
exercised under such circumstances must be condemned as
denying the equal protection of the laws or that the liberty
assured by the Constitution of the United States in the Fourteenth Amendment gives a right to either progressive or conservative tendencies in legislation.
Appellants not only. attack the standard adopted by the
statute, but attack the use made of it. They assert -that the
standard is of "purely negative character," in that it fails to
"require all allowable ingredients essential for efficiency to be
used and its failure to prescribe maximum and minimum percentages," and, therefore, it -is insisted, "permits of the manufacture and sale under the special sanction of the law of that
which is inefficient, useless and a fraud upon the purchaser."
It is besides asserted that the sthtute enumerates among the
allowable ingredients a material which cannot be used, to wit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

pure carbonate of lead, and it is asked whether a statute having
these effects can be a valid exercise of thepolice power of the
State. The answer is ready enough. The enumeration of "pure
carbonate of lead" may be corrected into commercial carbonate
by a perfectly allowable exercise of construction; and as to the
other charge, the inefficiency of the statutory ingredients on
account of the failure to define the proportions in which they
must be used, goes to the defect or incompleteness of the legislation, not to its legality. Were the proportions ever so exactly
defined, the relation of mixed paints to the tesultant product
or its liberty of sale or power of competition would not be lessened.
There is a special and earnest criticism of. the provision of. the
statute requirinjg varnish when used as a thinning material to
be specified, and a like criticism .of the term "pure colors."
to designate one of the statutory ingredients. "The exclusion
of varnish," it is said, "from the list of allowable ingredients
is indefensible and undefended." The bill alleges, and it is not
denied, that there is very large demand for certain mixed
paints, which are enumerated, that are capable of producinga
high gloss for decorative purposes and have high resisting power
to moisture, and that varnish is the ."only thinning material
now known which may appropriately be used as an ingredient
of mixed paint to produce said effects." "Notwithstanding
these admitted facts," counsel's comment is. "varnish is
branded as an adulterant by the statute."
The term "pure colors," it is .lleged, is intended to refer to
coloring, material used by paint manufacturers in powdered
form, and is known in the trade as "dry -olors';" that the term
"pure colors" neither has a definite meaning nor is "it capable
of an exact or even approximately exact definition;" that some
dry colors are regarded as "pure" and others "impure" by
individual manufacturers, but there is "nothing approaching a.
consensus of opinion," and "no- rational classification on the
subject has ever been attempted." The standard "applied-to
dry colors is not purity but efficiency."

VANDALIA RAILROAD v. SOUTH BEND.
207 U.S.

Syllabus.

We regard these criticisms answered by our general discussion, and we have specially noticed them that it may not be
thought we have overlooked them. They may emphasize what
we have already said as to the possible imperfection of the classification of the statute. It must not be forgotten, however,
that inaccuracies of definition may be removed in the administration of the law. And it must be borne in mind that the use
of the non-enumerated ingredients is not forbidden nor the
advantages of the practical tests and scientific research made
by appellants taken away from them. The sole prohibition of
the statute is that those ingredients shall not be used without
a specific declaration that they are used-a burden maybe,
but irremediable by the courts-maybe, inevitable, in legislation directed against the adulteration of articles or to secure
a true representation of their character or composition.
Decree affirmed.

VANDALIA RAILROAD -COMPANY v. INDIANA ex rel.
THE CITY OF SOUTH BEND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 26." Argued October 18, 1907.-Decided December 16, 1907.

The construction of a pleading, the meaning to be given to its various allegations, the determination of the validity of a contract in reference to
real estate within the State, and whether the form of remedy sought is
proper, are, as a general rule, loqal questions.
If the judgment of the state court is based on a decision placed upon a sufficient non-Federal ground this court has no jurisdiction to review it.
While this court is not concluded by the judgment of the state court and
must determine for itself whether a Federal question is really involved,
and may take jurisdiction if the state court has in an unreasonable manner
avoided the Federal issue, the writ of error will be dismissed where no
intent to so avoid the Federal question is apparent.
Writ of error to review 166 Indiana, 219, dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

