EX PARTE FIRST NAT'L BANK OF CHICAGO.
207 U. S.

61

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Ex parte THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK "OF CHICAGO.
PETITION FOR MANDAMUS DIRECTED TO THE JUDGES OF THE
CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT AND
THE HONORABLE SOLOMON H. BETHEA AS JUDGE OF THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES, ETC.

THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO v. THE
CHICAGO TITLE AND TRUST COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 8 Original, and 38. Submitted May 13, 1907.-Decided October 28, 1907.
Where the Circuit Court of Appeals after issuing mandamus to the district
judge requiring him to modify a decree so as to conform to the decision
of this court, allows the party in interest a writ of error and the district
judge declines to sue out or join in the writ, the writ will not be dismissed
because the district judge is-not a party and the fact that he has obeyed
the order will not prejudice the position of the plaintiff in error.
This court customarily issues a single mandate, and if in a case originating
in the District Court it is addressed to the Circuit Court of Appeals the
directions are simply to be communicated to the District Court to be
followed by it on the authority of this court and not of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and that court has no jurisdiction to compel the District
Court to alter its decree.
Where the Circuit Court of Appeals has improperly issued mandamus to
the district judge to modify a decree to conform to the decision of this
court, this court will reverse the judgment and issue mandamus to the
District Court. to set aside the decree entered in pursuance thereof.
The decision of this court in First National Bank v. Chicago Title & Trust
Co.1 198 U. S. 280, merely gave directions in general form to be carried
out by the District Court and it was not intended to supersede the authority given to that court by the bankruptcy law to control litigation
by the trustee.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry S. Robbins, Mr. Wallace Heckman and Mr. James

G. Elsdon, for petitioners and plaintiffs in error:
Mandamus from this court is a proper remedy to compel a

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

207 U. S.

compliance by the lower court with this court's decisions.
Gaines v. Rugg, 148 U. S. 228; In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co.,
160 U. S. 247; In re Delgado, 140 U. S. 586, 591.
Such a writ is available, not only to compel the entry of a
proper decree, but incidentally to compel the lower court to
set aside a judgment or decree entered after the filing of a
mandate, which does not comply with its directions. The
writ ini such case commands the lower court to vacate and
erase the former order and enter a proper one: Ex parte
Dubuque and Pacific R. R., 1 Wall. 69; In re Potts, Petitioner,
166 U. S.263:
Hence this court may by mandamus compel the Circuit
Court of Appeals to set aside its order and recall its peremptory
writ of mandamus, and also require the District Court to set
aside the order entered by it in compliance with puch peremptory writ, when this is necessary to give to the parties
the decree, to which the decision of this court entitles them.
But whether mandamus is a concurrent remedy with appeal
or writ Of error to compel compliance with a mandate or not,
is not here material, as, if the petitioners were not entitled
to prosecute this writ of error, as contended by the defendants in error, this application for mandamus is their only
remedy.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was without power or jurisdiction to grant this writ of mandamus.
This court has directed the entry in the District Court of a
.modified order. This is tantamount to directing a new decree
in that court, and the question here is the same as it would
have been if this court had directed an entirely new order
in that court.
But when this court does this, the order entered in the
lower court is in reality the decree of this court. Stewart v:
Salamon, 97 U. S. 361.
So, under the rule which requires leave from the court entering the decree as a prerequisite to a bill of review, it has
been held that no such bill may bp filed in a cause in which
-

EX PARTE FIRST NAT'L, BANK OF CHICAGO.
207 U. S.

63

Argument for Respondents.

this court has directed a certain decree, without leave of this
court, because the decree sought to be reviewed is in effect
the decree of this court. Kimberly v. Arms, 40 Fed. Rep. 549;
In re Potts, 166 U. S. 263; Skillern's Exrs. v. May's Exrs., 6
Cranch, 267; Ex parte Story, 12 Pet. 339; United States v.
Knight, 1 Black, 488.
Under these authorities, the modified order first entered
in the .District Court, which the mandamus writ sought to
change, was in effect the decree of this court, and the Circuit
Court of Appeals was without jurisdiction to change it.
Mr. Newton Wyeth and Mr. Joseph E. Paden, for respond'ents:
The decrees of.dismissal with directions of the Circuit Court
of Appeals were actual decrees of that court, to be carried out
and enforeed.
The Circuit Court of Appeals rightfully issued mandates to
the District Court, and was bound by mandamus to compel
compliance. The mandamus was in aid of its appellate jurisdiction.
The Circuit Court of Appeals'sent, and was bound to send,
mandates to the District Court. The Circuit Court of Appeals
by the writ of mandamus simply sent down a more specific
mandate to the District Court.
The decrees of dismissal and direction entered by the Court
of Appeals were actual decrees, as much so as if no certiorari
had arisen and they had been entered as the original decrees
and orders of the Court of Appeals, had that court in the first
instance conceived that the objections of the petitioners in
the District Court to the jurisdiction of the District Court to
proceed on the merits Were well taken and had not been waived.
The decrees of dismissal in the Court of Appeals and remand
of the causes were not mere forms, and that court was not a
mere instrument, and that court had power which it could
rightfully exercise over the decrees to carry them into execu,
tion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

The modification originally made in the District Court was
not a compliance. The modification as finally made was a
compliance.- Petitioners show that the matters of which they
complain in the modifications made are immaterial, and that
they have been deprived of nothing to which they were entitled under the decrees and mandates of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and the opinion of the Supreme Court.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases arise out of the proceedings subsequent to the
decision of this court in First National Bank of Chicago v.
Chicago Title. & Trust Co., 198 U. S. .280. In that case the
Trust Company, as receiver, subsequently trustee, in bankruptcy, filed a petition in the District Court alleging possession
of certain property and asking for directions in respect of a
sale. The District Court found that a storage company had
the possession* and right of possession, but nevertheless retained jurisdiction and, a sale having been had by consent,
made a summary order for transfer to the petitioner of part of
the proceeds of the sale. An appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and that court sustained the jurisdiction of
the District Court. On certiorari this court held that the
Circuit Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction of the appeal and
that the District Court, having found that the receiver and
trustee was not in possession of the fund, had no jurisdiction
to proceed further. It thereupon rendered a judgment and
issued a mandate reversing the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and directing that court to dismiss the appeal and to
remand the~case to the District Court for further proceedings
in conformity with the opinion upon which the mandate was
based.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thereupon dismissed the appeal and remanded the cause for further proceedings as directed. -The opinion to which the proceedings of the District
Court were to conform corlluded with these words: "In our

EX PARTE FIRST NAT'L BANK OF CHICAGO. . 65
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

view the District Court should have declined upon its findings
to retain jurisdiction, and in that event the decree for the return of the money should have been without prejudice to the
right of respondents to litigate in a proper court, which modification we direct to be made." The District Court made a
decree "without. prejudice to the rights of the Chicago Title
and Trust Company, the trustee herein, if this court shall
so authorize, to litigate in any proper court the question of
the right of said trustee to recover said funds as a part of
the bankrupt's general estate." The trustee complained of the
form of this decree, especially because of the insertion of the
words "if this court shall so authorize," and moved in this
court ,for leave to file a petition for mandamus requiring the
district judge to modify it, but leave was denied. 200 U. S.
613.
The trustee next made a similar application to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, whereupon that court granted it and issued
a peremptory writ requiring modifications to be made. 77
C. C. A. 408; 146 Fed. Rep. 742. The petitioners and plaintiffs in error, claiming an interest in the fund, then applied
for leave to intervene for the purpose of prosecuting a writ of
error, their application was allowed, and leave was granted
them to sue out the writ, the order reciting that the district
judge was present by counsel, but declined to sue out or join
in the same. On the same day the Circuit Court of Appeals
refused to make the writ act as a supersedeas, and on the next
day the district judge entered a decree conforming to the
mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals. The present proceedings are brought for the purpose of reversing the action
of the Circuit Court of Appeals and of reinstating the former
decree of the District Court.
There is a motion to dismiss the writ of error on the grounds
that the judge, who was the only party to the mandate alleged
to be erroneous, did not sue out the writ, but that, on the contrary, he has obeyed the order, and that the plaintiffs in error
are not privy'to the judgment. We deem it a sufficient answer
VOL. o'vii-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

to this motion to say that it appears on the record that the
judge declined to join, Masterson v. Herndon, 10 Wall. 416;
Hardee v. Wilson, 146 U. S. 179, that he has no personal interest in the judgment, Davis v. Mercantile Trust Co., 152
U. S. 590, 593, and that the plaintiffs have such an interest
and wdre made parties for the purpose of protecting their
rights. The fact that the judge obeyed the order in force
against him cannot prejudice the position of the plaintiffs.
They have the same interest in having the former decree of
the District 'Court reinstated that they had in having it stand.
We are of opinion that the order of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was wrong. The mandate of this court was addressed
to it alone, it is true, in point of form. It is customary to issue
but a single mandate. But the directions as to the further proceedings of the District Court were not an order to the Circuit
Court of Appeals to issue an order to the District Court. They
were directions which the Circuit Court of Appeals was simply
to communicate to the District Court and which the District
Court was to follow on the authority of this court, not of the
Circuit Court of Appeals. The suggestion of the need of speedy
relief seems to have counted for something in the making of
the order appealed from, and the denial of a mandamus by this
court was treated as an intimation that the final direction to
the District Court was to be regarded as proceeding from the
Circuit Court of Appeals. Such was not the import of the
action of this court. The Circuit Court of Appeals had no
jurisdiction in the matter, and the denial of a mandamus by
this court did not confer or declare jurisdiction to grant what
this court denied. It follows that the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals must be reversed.
As the judgmcnt reversed has been acted upon by the District Court it becomes necessary to consider whether the former
or the present decree of the District Court was the proper one
to enter. The present one might be right notwithstanding the
want of jurisdiction on the part of the higher court to order
it to be made. We need not determine whether the language

LEE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
207 U. S.

Syllabus.

quoted from our former opinion was improvidently used. It
is enough to say that the opinion did not purport to fix the
words of the new decree. It merely gave a general direction
which was to be carried out in a form to be settled by the
District Court.. It declared, perhaps unnecessarily, that the
decree was to be without prejudice to whatever right the respondents might have to litigate in a proper court, not that
they were entitled to litigate, or that the authority given by
the Bankruptcy Law [§§ 2 (7) 11 c, 47 (2)] to the District
Court to control such litigation was superseded. We are of
opinion that the decree first entered by the District Court
complied with the language of the opinion, and that the subsequent decree having been entered only in obedience to an
unwarranted judgment should be set aside. Re Potts, 166
U. S. 263; Ex parte Dubuque & Pacific R. R., 1 Wall. 69.
Judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Mandamus to go to the District Court to set aside its decree
entered in pursuance of said judgment.

LEE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 16. Argued October 16, 1907.-Decided October 28, 1907.
A State has power to regulate the oyster industry although carried on
under tidal waters in the State.
Although a state statute may be unconstitutional as against a class to
which the party complaining does not belong, that fact does not authorize
the reversal of a judgment not enforcing the statute so as to deprive that
party of any right protected by the Federal Constitution.
Where it appears that a conviction under the New Jersey statute for the
protection of. the oyster industry depended both in the charge and in
the testimony upon the actual illegal use of oyste'r dredges, and the

possible construction of the statute which made it a crime to merely

