KENT v. PORTO RICO.
207 U. B,

Opinion of the Court.

KENT v. PEOPLE OF PORTO RICO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 81.

Argued October 80, 31, 1907.-Decided November 18, 1907.

Amado v. United State, 195 U. S. 172, followed as to when this court cannot
review the final judgment of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico in a criminal
case.
Where the jurisdiction of this court to reyiew a judgment of the Supreme
Court of a Territory depends on the presence of a Federal question the
mere assertion of a Federal right indubitably frivolous and without color
of merit is not sufficient to confer jurisdiction, nor in such a case has this
court jurisdiction to pass upon other questions non-Federal in nature,
and the judgment will not be affirmed but the writ of error dismissed.
While the contention that a local law of Porto Rico passed in 1904, changing
the boundaries of the judicial districts, was void because in conflict with
§ 33 of the act of April 12, 1900, so that no district courts have existed
since that time, presents a formal Federal question, it is frivolous Rnd
without color ot merit and therefore ihisufficient to 6onfer jurisdiction on
this court to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico under
§ 35 of that act.
Where, at the request of the accused, the question of the voluntary nature
of a written confession has been submitted to the jury no constitutional
right under the Fifth Amendment has been asserted and denied and
errors assigned on that subject do not present any Federal question or
furnish any basis for the jurisdiction of this court.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill,with whom Mr. Nemesio Perez Moris
and Mr. Harry P. Leake were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank Feuille, Attorney General of Porto Rico, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

Whether the Supreme Court of Porto Rico erred in affirming
the conviction and sentence of the plaintiff in error of a crime
held to constitute embezzlement, is the question presented by
this record. Twenty-seven errors are assigned. At the threshVOL. OOVII-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

old we are concerned with our right to consider them. Our
jurisdiction arises from the thirty-fifth section of the act of
April 12, 1900 (31 Stat. 77, 85, chap. 191). For the purposes
of this case it suffices to say that by the section in question our
power to review extends, first, to "the same cases as from the
Territories of the United States;" and, second, to "all cases
where the Constitution of the United States, or a treaty thereof,
or an act of Congress is brought in question and the right
claimed thereunder is denied. . . ." As we have no authority to review the action of the Supreme Court of a Territory
of the United States in a criminal case like this (Amiado v.
United States, 195 U. S.172, 175), the first of the above clauses
may be put out of view. A few only of the errors assigned are
relied upon at bar as presenting Federal questions within the
scope of the second clause, yet it is urged that all the assigned
errors are open. This rests upon the proposition that in a case
coming from Porto Rico, where jurisdiction arises from the
presence of a Federal question, the duty devolves of passing
upon all the errors relied upon, irrespective of their Federal
character. Passing for the moment a consideration of"the deduction involved in the proposition, we come to consider the
premise, that is, the alleged existence of Federal contentions
embraced by the second clause of section 35. We do this because, if it be that there are no such questions, it will become
unnecessary -further to notice the argument. In determining
whether the assignments of error present Federal questions
it is to be borne in mind that the mere fact that some of the
assignments relied on assert Federal rights is not determinative,
since, even although the assignments formally involve such
rights, we are nevertheless without jurisdiction "where it indubitably appears that the Federal right asserted is frivolpus,
that is, without color of merit." American Railroad Co. v.
Castro, 204 U. S.453.
The first error assigned alleged to embody a Federal right is
that the trial below was absolutely void because the District
Court in which the information was filed and trial had was not

KENT v. PORTO RICO.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a legal tribunal within the intendment of the act of Congress of
April 12, 1900, the organic act of Porto Rico. To test the
merit of the contention it is necessary to briefly state the organization of the judicial system of Porto Rico under the American domination and the legislation of Congress relating to the
same. By an order promulgated during the control of Porto
Rico by the military authorities the judicial system was made
to consist, generally speaking, of District Courts composed of
three judges, and of a Supreme Court. By section 33 of the
act of Congress above referred to it was, in part, provided (31
Stat. 84):
"That the judicial power shall be vested in the courts and
tribunals of Porto Rico as already established and now in operation, including municipal courts, under and by virtue of General Orders, numbered one hundred and eighteen, as promulgated by Brigadier-General Davis, United States Volunteers,
August sixteenth, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, and including also the police courts established by General Orders
numbered one hundred and ninety-five, promulgated November twenty-ninth, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, by Brigadier General Davis, United States Volunteers, and the laws
and ordinances of Porto Rico and the municipalities thereof
in force, so far as the same are not in conflict herewith, all
which courts and tribunals are hereby continued."
In Maren, 1904, a law was enacted by the legislature of Porto
Rico, modifying the judicial system as established by the military orders referred to in the act ofCongress. For the purposes
of the contention now under consideration it suffices to say that
by this local law the boundaries, of the judicial districts were
changed, caused by the creation of additional districts, and it
was provided that such courts, instead of being composed of
three, should consist of one judge in each district. The argument is that this local law, in so far as it changed the District
Courts, and especially in so far as it provided for one instead
'of three judges to preside over each court, was void, because
in conflict with- the provision of the thirty-third section of the

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

act of Congress.. The contention amounts to this, that tnere
were no District Courts in Porto. Rico from the time of the
going into effect of the Porto Rican act in 1904 up to the present
time. Whilst the proposition presents a formal Federal question,, we think it is clear that it is so frivolous as to bring it
within the rule announced in American Railroad Co. v. Castro,
supra. We say this, because we think that no other conclusion
is reasonably possible from a consideration of the whole 6f
section 33 of the act of Congress and the context of that act,
particularly section 15 thereof, both of which are reproduced
in the margin.1
We do -not deem it necessary to analyze the text of the act
1 SEC. 15, 31 Stat. 80. That the legislative authority hereinafter provided
shall have power by due enactment to amend, alter, modify, or repeal any
law or ordinance, civil or criminal, continued in force by this act, as it may
from time to time see fit.
SEC. 33, 31 Stat. 84. That the judicial power shall be vested in the courts
and tribunals of Porto Rico as already established and now in operation,
including municipal courts, under and by virtue of General Orders, Numbered One hundred and eighteen, as promulgated by Brigadier-General Davis
United States Volunteers, August sixteenth, eighteen hundred aud ninetynine, and including also the police courts established by General Orders,
Numbered One hundred and ninety-five, promulgated November twenty'ninth, eighteen hundred and ninety-nine, by Brigadier-General Davis,
United States Volunteers, and the laws and ordinances of Porto Rico and
the municipalities thereof in force, so far as the same are not in conflict
herewith, all which courts and tribunals are hereby continued. The jurisdiction of said courts and thp form of procedure in them, and the various
officials and attach6s thereof, respectively, shall be the same as defined
and prescribed in and by said laws and ordinances, and said General Orders,
Numbered One hundred and eighteen and One .hundred and ninety-five,
until otherwise provided by law: Provided, however, That the chief justic
and associate justices of the supreme court and the marshal thereof shall
be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, and the judges of the district courts shall be appointed by the
governor, by and with the advice and consent of the executive council,
and all other officials and attachds of all the other courts shall be chosen
as may be directed by the legislative assembly, which shall have authority
to legislate from time to time as it nmay see fit with respect to said courts,
and any others they may deem it advisable to establish, their organization,
the number of judges and officials and attachds for each, their jurisdiction,
their procedure, and all other matters affecting them.

KENT v. PORTO RICO.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Congress to point out the inevitable result just stated, since
the obvious meaning of the act is established by a decision
heretofore rendered. Dones v. Urrutia, 202 U. S. 614. In
that case Dones, who had been convicted and sentenced to
death for murder, unsuccessfully sought release by habeas corpus at the hands of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico upon the
identical ground presented in the assignment of error which
we are considering, and upon an additional ground relating to
an alleged personal disqualification of the judge who presided
at his trial. On appeal to this court the questions raised were
fully argued in printed briefs, but were deemed to be of such
a frivolous character as not to require an opinion, and were
hence disposed of per curiam, referring to the provisions-of the
statute and pertinent authorities. True it is that in the Dones
case, in conformity to the practice in cases'of habeas corpus,
the formal order was to affirm, but this would not justify us
in assuming jurisdiction on this record when the necessary result of the action of the court in the Dones case is to establish
the frivolous nature of the contention here relied upon as the
basis of jurisdiction. EquitableLife Assurance Society v. Brown,.
187 U. S. 308, 311, 314.
The second of the asserted Federal questions relates to the
action of the courts below in respect to a certain letter claimed
to constitute a confession of guilt and written by the accused
to a private person before this prosecution was commenced.
It is insisted that by the actions of the trial court on the sub•ject the plaintiff in error was deprived of rights guaranteed
by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Conceding, arguendo, the Fepplicability of the constitutional provision relied upon to the subject and that it was
operative in the island of Porto Rico, we think the record demonstrates that the claim here made was not raised below, is
a mere afterthought, and is established by the record to be
without color of merit.
When the document was offered in evidence the record recites that "the defendant objected on the ground that its com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

petency had not been established in accordance with the custom in law, inasmuch as it had not been shown to have been
free and voluntary and given without promise of reward or
without promise of freedom from prosecution."
It is next stated that "the accused requested that the jury
withdraw while the question of the competency of the evidence
should be decided by the court." The request was acceded to
and evidence was introduced on the subject of the voluntary
nature of the alleged confession. The court decided to admit
the document and overruled "an extensive oral argument, requesting the court to reconsider its decision to admit the document in evidence." After such admission in evidence it is
stated merely that "the defendant duly excepted to the admission."
Again, after the close of all the evidence, the record recites:
"Counsel for the defense asked that that part of the record
in which appeared the testimony of the witnesses Dix, Kent,
and Dexter concerning the so-called confession which the Fiscal
had offered in evidence be transcribed by the stenographer and
given to the .jury so that the jury might have full knowledge
of all of the circumstances connected with the so-called confession, which motion was denied by the court, in accordance
with the law and especially section 274 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, and the accused duly excepted.
"Whereupon, the defendant moved through his attorney,
that Messrs. Dexter and Kent be allowed to testify as to the
circumstances surrounding the alleged confession before the
jury, which motion was granted by the court, and the witnesses testified."
Further, after thus, at the request of the counsel for the accused, allowing testimony as to the voluntary nature of the
confession to go to the jury, the court in instructing them, after
calling their attention to the proceedings had at the trial in
respect to the circumstances surrounding the making of the
confession which had been given before the jury, submitted the
matter to the jury and no exception was noted. That this ac-

KENT v. PORTO RICO.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of the court was proper, if there was conflict of testimony,
is not open to controversy. Wilson v. United States, 162 U. S.
613.
Nor does the record disclose that the errors assigned in the
Supreme Court of Porto Rico involved any contention that
rights under the Constitution of the United States had been
denied. 'The Supreme Court, in approaching the consideration
of an assigned error which complained of the action of the trial
court in admitting the confession in evidence, made an elaborate
statement of what it deemed to be the rules applicable to the
admissibility of confessions, and in so doing referred to the Fifth
Amendment and to a multitude of cases in this and other courts
concerning the principle to be applied in determining such admissibility. It is a matter of no concern, however, in ascertaining whether rights under the Federal Constitution were
asserted and denied to consider the accuracy of all the statements made by the appellate court in its elaborate review of
the subject, since the conclusion which it reached was that as a
general principle of law confessions in order to be admissible
"must have been made without compulsion or undue promise
or inducement and be entirely voluntary." Besides the ultimate and decisive ruling of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico
was that the trial court had not erred in acceding to the request of the accused in allowing the evidence concerning the
voluntary nature of the confession to be heard by the jury and
leaving that subject to its determination. True it is that the
opinion indicates that the court deemed that the proof as to
the voluntary nature of the confession was of such a preponderating character that the court would have been authorized
in not submitting it to the jury. But the correctness of that
conclusion is not a matter of concern in view of the fact that
the question of the voluntary nature of the confession was
submitted to the jury at the request of the accusedl As from
no possible view of the action of the courts below concerning
the confession can we discover even the semblance of the assertion or denial of a right under the Constitution, it follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

that the errors assigned on that subject furnish no basis for
the exercise of our jurisdiction.
As the matters which we have considered dispose of all the
alleged Federal questions asserted -to come within the second
clause of § 35 of the act of April 12, 1900, the conclusion follows that we are without jurisdiction, and the writ of error is,
therefore,
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

TAYLOR v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. MACDONALD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Nos. 238, 404. Argued October 24, 25, 1907.-Decided November 18, 1907.
Even though one who makes it possible for an alien to land by omitting due
precautions to prevent it, may permit him to land within the meaning of
the penal clause of § 18 of the Immigration Act of March 3, 1903, 32 Stat.
1217, that section does not apply to the ordinary case of a sailor deserting while on shore leave.
This construction is reached both by the literal meaning of the expressions
"bringing to the United States" and "landing from such vessel" and
by a reasonable interpretation of the statute which will not be construed
as intending to altogether prohibit sailors from going ashore while the
vessel is in port.
The fact that an alien has been refused leave to land in the United States
and has been ordered to be deported does not make it impossible for the
master of a foreign vessel, bound to an American port, subsequently to
accept him as a sailor on the high seas.
Under the act of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, .the United States can be
allowed a writ of error to the District Court quashing an indictment in
a criminal case. The act is directed to judgments rendered before the

