OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

207 U. S.

the responsible owner and custodian, to produce the documentary evidence mentioned therein, without the necessity
of calling upon bookkeepers, managers or other servants who
may, or may not, in fact, have custody or control thereof at
the time notice to produce is given, and to place upon the
corporation the responsibility of seeing that such evidence
called for, if in its control, is produced. There is ample justification for the classification made by the statute.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of- the State of Vermont is

Afmed.
ANHEUSER-BUSCH

BREWING ASSOCIATION v. THE
UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 60.

Argued December 9. 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.

To entitle a manufacturer to drawbacks under § 25 of the Tariff Act of
October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 567, 617, on imported raw material used in
the manufacture or production of articles in the United States, there
must be some transformation, so that a new and different article emerges
having a distinctive name, character and use. The mere subjection of
imported articles, such as corks, to a cleansing and coating process to
adapt them to a special use does not amount to manufacturing them
within the meaning of the statute, and the exporter is not entitled to
drawback thereon. Jos. Schlitz Brewing. Co. v. United States, 181 U. S.
584. Semble: an exportation of bottled beer is an exportation of the beer
and not of the corks in the bottles, and therefore such corks are not exported articles within the meaning of § 25 of the Tariff Act of October 1,
1890.
41 C. Cl. 389, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. L. T. Michener, with whom Mr. W. W. Dudley was
on the brief, for appellant:
This court has sanctioned the use of dictionary definitions

ANHEUSER-BUSCH ASSN. v. UNITED STATES. 557
207 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

in determining the meaning of words in tariff laws. Marvel
v. Merritt, 116 U. S. 11, 12; Nix v. Hedden, 149 U. S. 304.
The definitions of the word "manufacture" found in various
standard dictionaries plainly bring the processes to which
these corks were subjected within the. meaning of the word
as ordinarily used. Brande's Ency., tit. "Manufacture ;" Evening Journal Assn. v. State Board of Assessors, 47 N. J. Law
(18 Vroom), 36, 38. "Manufacture" is defined by Worcester
to be "the process of making anything by art, or of reducing materials into forms fit for use by hand or by machinery,
as an establishment for the manufacture of cloth; anything made or manufactured by hand, or manual dexterity,
or by machinery." As a verb it is defined to mean, to form
by manufacture or workmanship by hand or by machinery;
to make by art or labor. Approved and applied in Attorney
.General v. Lorman, 59 Michigan, 157; Louisville & N. R. Co.
v. Fulghan, 91 Alabama, 555; Beggs v. Edison Elec. Ill. Co.,
96 Alabama, 295; Lamborn v. Bell, 18 Colorado, 346. See also
Murphy v. Arnson, 96 U. S. 131,134; Carlin v. Western Assurance Co., 57 Maryland, 515, 526; S. C., 40 Am. Rep. 440; Norris
v. Commonwealth, 27 Pa. St. (3 Casey) 494, 496; Landgraf v.
Kuh, 188 Illinois, 484.
A "manufacturer" is defined to be one who is engaged in
the business of working raw materials into wares suitable
for use; who gives new shapes, new qualities, new combinations, to matter which has already gone through some artificial
process. A manufacturer prepares the original substance for
use in different forms.
He makes to sell, and stands-between the original producer
and the dealer and first consumer, depending for his profit
on the labor which he bestows on the raw materials. State v:
Dupre, 42 La. Ann. 561; City of New Orleans v. La Blanc,
34 La. Ann. 596, 597; City of New Orleans v. Ernst, 35 La.
Ann. 746, 747; State v. American Sugar Refining Co., 108
Louisiana, 603.
The things done to, by and with the corks were a manu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

facture of corks within the acts of Congress; the corks were
imported materials used in the manufacture of articles in
the United States, on which duties had been paid, and then
were exported to foreign countries; and the appellant is a
manufacturer and exporter within those acts of Congress and,
is entitled to a refund of the duties so paid. Schriefer v.
Wood, 21 Fed. Cas. 737; Commonwealth v. Juniata Coke Co.,
157 Pa. St. 507; Burke v. Mead, 64 N. E. Rep. 880, 883;
S. C., 159 Indiana, 252; People v. Wempie, 129 N. Y. 543;
People v. Morgan, 63 N. Y. Supp. 76, 79; Nassau Gas Co.
v. Brooklyn, 89 N. Y. 409; Attorney General v. Lorman, 59
Michigan, 157; S. C., 60 Am. Rep. 287; Southern Chem. Co,
v. Board of Assessors, 48 La. Ann. 1475; Louisville & N. Railroad Co. v. Fulgham, 91 Alabama, 555; Engie v. Sohn, 41 Ohio
St. 691. Hartran/t v. Wiegmann, 121 U. S.609, and Schlitz
Brewing Go. v, United States, discussed and distinguished.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Van Orsdel for appellee:
The corks in question were not a part or ingredient of the
beer exported, and were not, therefore, in contemplation of
law, exported at all. Schlitz Brewing Co. v. United States,
181 U. S.584.
The process of cleansing and preparation adopted and applied by the appellant to the corks in question did not constitute a manufacture of corks within the purview of the
statute providing for a rebate or drawback on exported manufactured articles. Frazee v. Moffitt, 20 Blatchf. 267; United
States v. Potts, 5 Cranch, 284; Tidewater. Oil Co. v. United
States, 171 U. S.210.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for $27,000 for drawbacks on corks imported from Spain and used by claimant in bottling its beer,
and entered for the benefit of drawback upon exportation under
§25 of the act of Congress, entitled "An act to reduce the
revenue and equalize duties on imports and for other purposes,'

ANHEUSER-BUSCH ASSN. v. UNITED STATES. 559
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

approved October 1, 1890. 26 Stat. 567, 617. The section
reads as follows:
"That where imported materials on which duties have been
paid, are Psed in the manufacture of articles manufactured
or produced in the United States, there shall be allowed on
the exportation of such articles a drawback equal in amount
to the duties paid on the materials used, less one per centum
of such duties. Provided, That when the articles exported are
made in. part from domestic materials, the imported materials,
or the parts of the articles made from such materials shall so
appear in the completed articles that the quantity or measure
thereof may be ascertained. And provided further, That the
drawback on any article allowed under existing law shall be
continued at the rate herein provided. That the imported
materials used in the manufacture or production of articles
entitled to drawback of custom duties when exported shall
in all cases where drawback of duties paid on such material
is claimed, be identified, the quantity of such materials used
and the amount of duties paid thereon shall be ascertained, the
facts of the manufacture or production of such articles in the
United States and their exportation therefrom shall be determined, and the drawback due thereon shall be paid to the manufacturer; producer- or exporter, to the agent of either or to
the person to whom such manufacturer, producer, exporter or
agent shall. in writing order such drawback paid, under such
regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe."
The corks in question were, after their importation, subjected
to a special treatment, which, it is contended, caused them to
be articles manufactured in the United States of "imported
materials" within the meaning of § 25. The Court of Claims
decided against the contention and dismissed the petition.'
41 C. Cl. 389.
The treatment to which the corks were subjected is detailed
in finding III, inserted in the margip 1
I III. That while said acts of October] 1, 1890, August 28, 1894, and
July 24, 1897, were in force and operation the claimant herein, being en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

In opposition to the judgment of the Court of Claims counsel have submitted many definitions of "manufacture," both
gaged in the regular, ordinary and usual course of its business aforesaid,
exported from the United States a large quantity of beer brewed and manufactured by it, which exportation thereof was in bottles duly corked by it
with corks so as to preserve the beer; that such corks so used by it in the
bottles in which such beer was exported were imported from Spain, a foreign
country (and on which corks duty had been paid to the United States,
according to law, at the rate of 15 cents per pound, under the provisions
of paragraph 416 of the act of Congress approved July 24, 1897), they being
corks over three-fourths of an inch in diameter, measured at the larger
end. The corks so imported from Spain were subjected to treatment by
claimant.
The corks so used by the claimant in the making and shipment of its
export beer were corks imported into this country from Spain, where they
were cut by hand, without steaming. After these corks were received by
'laimant in its brewery in St. Louis, and while in the same state in which
they were imported from Spain, they were carefully examined and all that
were not fit for use in the export trade were rejected. The good ones were
then selected and assorted according to sizes, and were branded with the
date, the name of the brewer, and the name of the beer, and a special private
mark to show what firm the cork came from. All this was done by unskilled
labor.
The selected corks were put into a machine, or air fan, the unpatented
invention of a man in the employ of the claimant, and all dust, meal, bugs,
and worms were removed therefrom. They were then thoroughly cleansed
by washing and steaming, removing the tannin and germs and making
the cork soft and elastic, and they were next exposed to blasts of air in a
machine, the unpatented invention of the same employ6, until they were
absolutely dry.
Following this, they were put for a few seconds into a bath of glycerine
and alcohol, the proportions of which are a trade secret which the claimant
has the right to use, and then they were dried by a special system. This
bath closed up all the seams, holes and crevices, and gave the corks a coating which prevented the beer from acquiring a cork taste. The corks were
then dried by absorption of the chemicals that had covered them. If the
corks had been used without the application of this chemical bath, the beer
would have acquired a taste of cork which would have injured the market
for it.
The whole process took from one day to three days, the longest part of
it being the drying after the chemicdl bath.
The bath made it easier to put the cork into the bottle and take it out.
The pores and apertures of the cork were thoroughly closed by the bath,
and thus the escape of the gases contained in the beer was prevented.
The steaming of the corks, or pasteurizing them, destroyed all the germs

ANHEUSER-BUSCH ASSN. v. UNITED STATES. 561
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

as a noun and a verb, which, however applicable to the cases
in which they were used, would be, we think, extended too far
in them that would damage or spoil the beer, if they were not pasteurized.
This pasteurizing also destroyed the yeast that might have been in the
beer.
If the corks had but little or no elasticity, and did not fit the bottles
perfectly, the gas would escape while the beer was yet in the brewery, or
in transportation, or in the place of market, and the beer would be flat,
stale, worthless and unmarketable.
When the corks had been dried, they were soft, elastic and pliable, free
from all foreign substances and germs, perfectly airtight, and fitted for
use in bottling beer for export. They were next taken to the building in
claimant's brewery which was used for bottling purposes, where they were
again soaked or wetted by steaming them for a short time, so they would
fit snugly and easily in the bottles.'
The bathing, or treatment by the bath, and the washing and steaming
of the corks were all done by skilled labor.
After the beer had been put in the bottles and they had been corked, the
filled bottles were put in a large vat, where they were pasteurized by heating to the right temperature for a sufficient length of time and cooled again.
If the corks had not been treated as above described, the carbonic-acid
gas would have escaped in the heating or pasteurizing process, because there
was a powerful gas pressure toward the cork during all that process. If
that gas had escaped, the beer would have become flat.
The corks, so treated by this process and ppit in the bottles of beer, could
only be removed therefrom by means of a corkscrew or other instrument
of force', which removal would damage or destroy the cork so it could not
be used afterwards for the same purpose.
The hand-cut corks which come from Spain have all been cut out of the
wood without steaming it beforehand. The corks that are cut in the United
States are cut from the wood that has been steamed first, thus depriving
them of much of their elasticity. Because the Spanish hand-cut corks are
cut without having been steamed in the first instance, they are far safer
and better corks to be made for and used in bottling export beer than corks
cut in the United States after being steamed.
Without the careful selection and thorough treatment of corks, beer
cannot with safety be exported from the United States to foreign countries.
When the corkwood reaches the United States it is steamed in order to
get an increased volume out of it. The steaming of the corkwood makes it
open something- like a sponge. The steaming swells the cork, and those
who do the steaming get more corks out of it, but how much more does not
appear. But the steaming takes away its elasticity, and the cork cut after
steaming is'not so good or so perfect as one cut from the dry wood in the
first place.
Corks cut after steaming will shrink, and that fact makes them inferior

VOL. ccviu-36

5662

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

if made to cover the treatment -detailed in finding III or to
the Corks after the treatment. The words of the statute are
indeed so familiar in use and of meaning that they are confused
by attempts at definition. Their first sense as used is fabrication or composition-a new article is produced of which the
imported material constitutes an ingredient or part. When we
go further than this in explanation we are involved in refinements, and in impracticable niceties. Manufactyre implies
a change, but every change is not manufacture, and yet every
change in an article is the result of treatment, labor and manipulation. But something. more is necessary, as set forth and illustrated in Hartran/tv. Wiegmann, 121 U. S. 609. There must
be transformation; a new and different article must emerge,
"having a distinctive name, character or use." This cannot
be said of the corks in question. A cork put through the claimant's process is still a cork. The process is the preparation of
the encasement of the beer, and assimilates this case to Jos.
Schlitz Brewing Co. v. United States, 181 U. S. 584. There it
was contended that bottles and corks in which beer is bottled
and exported were "imported materials used in the manucorks. Cork dealers in the United States also put it through various treatments, such as polishing it and using chemicals to make it look bright and
have a good color. They do not attempt to close up the pores in the cork,
nor run it through machinery to shake or wash the dust or impurities out
of it. They put the cork on the market as the machine cuts it after it has
been steamed. Corks so cut and treated in the United States would not
be fit for use in the exportation of beer, for they .would damage the beer
through contact, and much stale beer would result from the escape of the
carbonic-acid gas by reason of the imperfect corking, and the beer would
not be marketable.
In the manufacture of beer for export to other countries it was necessary
to destroy the yeast in the beer to prevent second fermentation and the
consequent ruin of the beer. In order to destroy the germs of yeast the
finished beer was steamed to the degree necessary to destroy the germs,
and for that purpose the beer was inclosed securely in a vessel to prevent
the escape of the carbonic-acid gas, and of all such vessels a bottle made
of glass was and is the one best adapted to the purpose aforesaid. And
such steaming was also necessary to the perfect manufacture of beer for
bottling, and to the perfect corking thereof it was essential and necessary
that the rork as treated should be used as herein described.

ANHEUSER-BUSCH ASSN. v. UNITED STATES. 563
207 TL. S.

Opinion of the Court.

facture" of Such beer, within the meaning of § 25. Ahd it was
pointed out-foupd by the Court of Claims-that the process
of manufacturing beer for exportation was different from the
process of manufacturing beer for domestic use and the materials'were selected with greater care, in order that the bottled
product might preserve purity under the conditions of transportation and change of climate. The process was detailed
at length. It was, decided, however, that such special process
and treatment did not make the -bottles and' corks component
parts of the beer when exported, as it was insisted they were.
It is true, that it was not contended in that case, as is in this,
that the corks or the bottles were articles manufactured in the
United States of imported materials by reason of the special
treatment to which they had been subjected,. making them
better or necessary for their purpose. That such a contention
was possible under the ,statute did not occur to the brewing
company. It does not appear in the statement of the case
that the corks were subjected to any treatment, and appellant
denies the application of the case by saying that "The corks
were not put through any process of manufacture whatever."
-And yet it must have been necessary then, as the Court of
Claims has found it to be, that "without the careful selection
and thorough treatment of corks beer cannot with safety be
exported from the United States to foreign countries." Of
course the views of a litigant of his rights under a statute are
not 'an absolute test of the views of a litigant in another case,
but the Schlitz Brewing case was one which may be supposed to
have brought to consideration every practicable and legal
problem under the statute, and if a cork by special treatment
ceases to be a cork and becomes an article manufactured of
cork, the change and the legal effect of it would have thrust
themselves upon the notice of somebody. But passing this,
there is force in the contention of the United States that the
exportations were not of corks or bottles, but of beer; and
therefore not articles, exported withii the meaning of § 25,
entitled to a drawback. This phase of the case--indeed all

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

207 U. S.

phases of it-are ably dealt with in the opinion of the Court of
Claims, and it would be unnecessary repetition to go over the
argument or to review the cases.
Judgment affirmed.

WINTERS v. THE UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 158.

ArguedOctober 24, 1907.-Decided January 6, 1908.

The rule that all the parties must join in an appeal or writ of error unless
properly detached from the right so to do applies only to joint judgments and decrees. This court has jurisdiction of an appeal taken or
writ of error sued out by-one of several defendants if his interest is separate from that of the other defendants..
In a suit against several defendants as trespassers in which some of them
defaulted and others answered, held, that each defendant was a separate trespasser and that while those who defaulted were precluded
from questioning the correctness of the decree entered against them,
the answering defendants had nothing in common with the others and
could maintain all appeal without them.
In a conflict of implications, the instruments must be construed according
to the implication having the greater force; and, in the interpretation
of agreements and treaties with Indians, ambiguities should be resolved
from the standpoint of the Indians.
In view of all the circumstances of the transaction this court holds that
there was an implied reservation in the agreement of May 1, 1888, 25
Stat. 124, with the Gros Ventre and other Indians establishing the Fort
Belknap Reservation, of a sufficient amount of water from the Milk
River for irrigation purposes, which was not affected by the subsequent.
act of February 22, 1889, 25 Stat. 676, admitting Montana to the Union,
and that the water of that river cannot be diverted, so as to prejudice
this right of the Indians, by settlers on the public lands or those claiming riparian rights on that river.
Thc Government of the United States has the power to reserve waters of
a river flowing through a Territory and exempt them from appropriation
under the laws of the State which that Territory afterwards becomes.
1.18 Fed. Rep. 6S4. affirmed.

