SEABOARD AIR LINE v. SEEGERS.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U.S.

.SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. SEEGERS.
ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF THE. STATE

OF

SOUTH

CAROLINA.
No. 15.

Argued October 16. 1907.-Docided November 4, 1907.

Where a state statute applies to both intrastate and interstate shipments,
but the shipment involved is wholly intrastate, this court 'will not consider the validity of the statute when applied to interstatd shipments.
A state statute may, without violating the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment, put into one class all engagbd in business of a
special and pubtic character, and require them to perform a duty which
they can do better and more quickly than others and impose a not exorbitant penshty for the non-performance thereof.
The statute of South Carolina of 1903 imposing a penalty of fifty dollars on
all common carriers for failure to adjust damage claims withinforty days
is not, as to intrastate.shipments, unconstitutional as violative of the Fourteenth Amendment, neither the classification, the amount of the penalty
nor the time of adjustment being beyond the power of the State to determine. And so held. in regard to a claim of $1.75, as sidalS'shipments are the
ones which especially need the protection of penal statutes of this nature.
73 S. Cr. 71, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality of a statute of
South Carolina providing for penalty on common carriers for
not promptly adjusting damage claims, are statedin the opinion.
THE

Mr. W. F. Stevenson, with whom Mr. Edward McIver was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
This statute discriminates against carriers as between them
and other debtors of the same class. It is an attempt to make
a common carrier pay one class of debts growing out of transportation under penalties and forfeitures that arc not inflicted
on other people, even other debts growing out of the same relation. The title of the act shows-its partisan character and
that it was leveled at one party to the contract of transportatio

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

207 U. S.

No other individual or corporation is thus punished. It is
an arbitrary classification and discrimination against common
carriers. The courts are not open to them as to other litigants
to adjudicate such claims, but this law says to them "if you
lose your case, you will be subject .to a heavy penalty (in this
case nearly thirty times as- large. as the, claim in controversy),
if your adversary loses his case he has no penalty to pay.''
This is unjust discrimination. Corporations are the same as
persons within the provisions both of the state and the United
States constitutions, and a State has no more power to deny
to corporations the equal protection of the law, than it has to
individual citizens.
The legislature has the power to classify persons or corporations, yet it is equally-true that such classification cannot be
made arbitrarily. Classification for legislative purposes inust
have some reasonable basis upon which to stand, and, must
always rest upon some difference which bears a reasonable
and just relation to the act in respect to Which the classification
is proposed. Porter v. Ry., 63 S. Car. 180; G. C. & S. F. Ry.
v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150.
Clear and hostile discrimination against particular persons and
classes cannot be made. Bells Gap R. R. v. Pa., 141 U. S. 232.
Here is a clear, and perhaps hostile, discrimination against
common carriers, requiring them to pay their debts within a
given time, or suffer a heavy penalty, imposed on no one else,
even though the conditions be identical.
Similar statutes in other States have been held unconstitutional. RailroadCo. v. Morris, 65 Alabama, 193; RailroadCo.
v. Moss, 60 Mississippi, 641; Wilder v. Railroad Co., 70 Michigan, 382; Railroad Co. v. Williams, 49 Arkansas, 492; Railroad
Co. v. Baty, 6 Nebraska, 37; Frorerv. People, 141 Illinois, 171;
Braceville Coal Co. v. People, 147 Illinois, 66.
By the statute in question carriers are denied access to the
courts on equal terms with other litigants.
The State has no right to say, as it does by this statute, that
two parties can enter into a contract and if one party fails to

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. SEEGERS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carry out his part he can refuse to pay and stand a suit, and,
if he loses, he shall not be liable for any penalty except for
costs, but if the other party fail and appeal to the court and
lose he shall be liable to a penalty in favor of his co-contractor.
Such a statute denies equality before the courts, and courts
exist to afford the protection of the laws, and therefore denial
of equality before the courts is a denial of the equal protection
of the laws. Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S.
79; Davidson v. Jennings, 48 L. R. A. 340, and cases there
cited; C., S. L. & N. 0. Ry. Co. v. Moss, 60 Mississippi, 641;
Wilder v. Chicago & W. M. R. Co., 70 Michigan, 382, 38 N. W.
Rep. 289; Randolph v. Builders' Supply Co., 106 Alabama, 501,
17 So. Rep. 721.
The cases cited by the Supreme Court of South Carolina do
not sustain its position herein. A. T. & S. F. Ry. v. Matthews,
174 U. S.96; Erb, Rec'r, v. Monarch, 177 U. S. 584, and Fidelity
Mut. Life Asso. v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308,listinguished.
No counsel appeared for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

The question in this case is the constitutionality.of section 2
& an act of the State of South Carolina, approved February 23,
1903 (24 Stat. 81), which reads:
"SE c. 2. That every claim for loss of or damage to property
while in the possession of such common carrier shall be adjusted
and paid within forty days, in case of shipments wholly within
this State, and within ninety days, in case of shipments from
without this State, after the filing of such claim with the agent
of such carrier at the point of destination of such shipment:
Provided, That no such claim shall be filed until after the arrival of the shipment or of some part thereof at the point of
destination-, or until after the lapse of a reasonable time for
the arrival thereof. In every case such common carrier shall
be liable for the amount of such loss or damage, together with
interest thereon from the date of the filing ofthe claim therefor

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U.S.

until the payment thereof. Failure to adjust and pay such
claim within the periods respectively herein prescribed shall
subject each common carrier so failing to a penalty of fifty dollars for each and every such failure, to be recovered by any
consignee or consignees aggrieved in any court of competent
jurisdiction: Provided, That unless such consignee or consignees
recover in such action the full amount claimed, no penalty
shall be recovered, but only the actual amount of the loss or
damage, with interest as aforesaid: Provided, further, That no
common carrier shall be liable under this act for property which
never came into its possession, if it complies with the provisions
of section 1710, vol. 1, of the Code of Laws of South Carolina,
1902."
The difference between the value of the goods shipped and
the freight charges, $1.75, and the amount of the penalty, $50,
naturally excites attention. The Supreme Court of the State
held the section constitutional, a decision conclusive so far as
the state constitution is concerned, and therefore we are limited
to a'consideration of its alleged conflict with the Constitution
of the United States. The shipment was wholly intrastate,
being from Columbia, S. C., to McBee, S. C., and undoubtedly
subject to the control of the State. It is of course unnecessary
to consider the validity of the statute when applied to a shipment from without the State.
It is cotended that the equal protection of the laws, guaranteed by the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment, is
denied. The power of classification is cdnceded, but this will
not uphold one that is purely arbitrary. There musttbe some
substantial foundation and-basis therefor. it is asserted that
*this is merely legislation to compel carrios to pay their debts
within a given time, by au' unreasonable penialty for any delay,
while no one else is so punished, and that there is no excuse
for such distinction. We have had before us several cases in- volving classification statutes, and while the principles upon
which classifications may rightfully be .macte are clear and easily
stated. vet the application of those principles to themdifferent

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. SEEGERS.
207 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cases is often attended with much difficulty. See among others,
on the general principles of classification, Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27; Bell's Gap Railroad Company v. Pennsylvania,
134 U. S. 232, and of cases making application of; those principles; "Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Company v. Ellis,
165 U. S. 150; A. T. & S. F. R. R. Co. v. Matthews, ,174 U. S.
96, and cases cited in the opinion; Erb v. Morasch, 177 U. S.
584; Fidelity Mutual Lye Association-v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308;
Farmers' &c. Ins. Co. v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301; M. K. & T.
Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S. 267.
We are of the opinion that this case comes within the limits
of constitutionality. It is not an act imposing a penalty. for
the noni~ayment of debts. As. the Supreme Court of South
Carolina said in Best v. Seaboard Air Line R. R. Co., 72 S.
Car., 479, 484:
"The object of the statute was not to penalize the carrier
for merely refusing to pay a claim within the time required,
whether j'st-or unjust, but the design was to bring about a
reasonably prompt Settlement of all proper claims, the penalty,
in case of a recovery in court, operating as a deterrent of the
carrier in refusing to settle just claims, and as compensation
of the claimant for the trouble and expense of the suit which
the carrier's unreasonable delay and refusal made necessaryf'
This ruling of the Supreme Court finds support, if any be
needed, in the preamble of the statute, which reads:."An act
to regulate the manner in which common carriers doing business in this State shall adjust freight charges and claims for.
loss of or damage to freight."
It is not an act levelled against corporations alone, but includes all common carriers. The classification is based solely
upon the nature of the business, that being of-a public character.
It is true that no penalty is cast upon the shipper, yet there issome guarantee against excessive claims in that, as 'held by
the Supreme Court of the State in Best v. Railroad Company,
supra, there .can be no award of a penalty unless there be a
recoveryv of the full amount.claimed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

207 U. S.

Further, the matter to be adjusted is one peculiarly within
the knowledge of the carrier. It receives the goods and has
them in its custody until the carriage is completed. It knows
what it received and what it delivered. It knows what injury
was done during the shipment, and how it was done. The consignee may. not know what was in fact delivered at the time of
the shipment, and the shipper may not know what was delivered to the consignee at the close of the transportation.
The carrier can determine the amount of the loss more accurately and promptly and with less delay and expense than any
one else, and for the adjustment of loss or damage to shipments
within the State forty days cannot be said to be an unreasonably short length of time. It may be stated as a general rule
that an act which puts in one class all engaged in business of a
special and public character, requires of them the performance
of a duty which they can do better and more quickly than
others, and imposes a not exorbitant penalty for a failure
to perform that duty within a reasonable time, cannot
be adjudged unconstitutional as a purely arbitrary, classification.
While in this case the penalty' may be large as compared
with ,the value of the shipment, yet it must be remembered
that small shipments are the ones which especially need the
protection of penal statutes like this. If a large amount is in
controversy, the claimant can afford to litigate. But he cannot well do so when there is but the trifle of a dollar or two in
dispute, and yet justice requires that his claim be adjusted and
paid with reasonable promptness. Further, it must be remembered that the purpose of this legislation is not primarily
to enforce the collection of debts, but to compel the performance of duties which the carrier assumes when it enters upon
the discharge of its public functions. We know there are limits
beyond which penalties may, not go-even in cases where
classification is legitimate-but we are not prepared to hold
that the amount of penalty imposed is so great or the length
of time within which the adjustment and payment are to be

INTERSTATE RAILWAY CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
207 U. S.

79

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

made is so short that the act imposing the. penalty and fixing

the time is beyond the power of the State.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM dissents.

INTERSTATE CONSOLIDATED STREET RAILWAY COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHU-

SETTS.
No. 13. Argued October 15, 16, 1907.-Decided November 4, 1907.

Requirements contained in another statute or document may be incorporated in a charter by generic or specific reference and, if clearly identified,
the charter has the same effect as if it itself contained the restrictive Wvords,
and the question of the constitutionality of the statute referred. to is immaterial.
A street railway corporation taking a legislative charter subject to all duties
and restrictions set forth in all general laws relating to corporations of
that class cannot complaih of the unconstitutionality of a prior enacted
statute compelling them to transport children attending public schools
at half price.
187 Massachusetts, 436, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the statute
of Massachusetts requiring the transportation of school chil-

dren by certain railways at half fare, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Everett Watson Burdett with whom Mr. Joseph H.
Knight was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:.
The statute is invalid as a rate regulation. It makes an ar-

bitrary and unreasonable discrimination, at the expense of the
plaintiff in error, in favor of certain members of the community,

to wit, school children, and of a portion only of such children,
to wit, those attending public schools. That this is unlawful is

