HANCOCK v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD GO.

409

Syllabus.

This case is not like those in which the defendant, having
abandoned or refused to perform the unlawful contract, has
been held liable to the plaintiff, as upon an implied contrat,
for the value of what it had received from him and had no
right to.retain. Spring Co. v. EKnowlton, 103 U. S. 49; Logan
County Bank v. Townsend, 139 U.. S. 67, and cases there
cited.
But the 6ase is one in which, in the words- of ,Mr. Justice
Miller in a case often cited in this bpinion, the court will not
disturb the-possession of the property that has passed under.
the contract, but will refuse tp. interfere as the matter stands.
Pennsylvania Railroad v. St. Louis, Aton & Terre Haute
Railroad, 118 U. S. 290, 316, 317. See also Union Trust Co.
v. _llinois Midland Co., 117 U. S. 434, 468, 469; Central
Tranportatio, Co. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24, 56,
57, 61.
-Decreeaffirmed.

HANCOCK v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY.
SHELBY RAILROAD

COMPANY v. LOUISVILLE
& -NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPATY.

APPEALS -FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Nos. 325, 326. Argued April 21, 22,1892. -Decided

May 16,1892.

The act of the legislature of Kentucky of January 22, 1858, authorizing
any railroad company to'lease its road to auother railroad company, provided its toad so leased should7be so connected as to form a continuous
line, permits the lessee company to take leases of branches by meaus of
which it establishes continuous lines from their several termini to each
of its own.
Unqer the legislation of the State of Kentucky, the right to receive and
vote upon the shares of stock in the Shelby Railroad Company which
were iksjied upon the subscription of a part of Shelby County became.
vested in the Shelby Railroad District of Shelby County as a corporation
quoad hoc.

OCTOBER TERM, 189i
Opinion of the Court.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
X/'. B. F. Buckner for appellant. .M . T'. 1. Burnett and
-Mr. John L. Dodd were with him on the brief.
.Mr. J. C. Beckham for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BREwER

delivered the opinion of the court.

These two cases were argued together, the object of attack
in each being the same, to wit, a lease made by the'Shelby
Railroad Company, on July 16, 1879, to the Louisville, Cincinnati and Lexington Railway Company,.and subsequently
transferred by the latter to the Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company. Each seeks the same relief, the cancellation
of that lease. Hancock, the appellant in one case, was a
stockholder in the Shelby Railroad Company, the appellant in
the other, and sues for the benefit of that company, the allegations of his bill being intended to bring the case within the
requirements of equity rule number 94. : His bill was fied on
the 3d day of December, 1886, and in it he alleges in substance that he notified and requested the Shelby Railroad
Company to institute an action for the cancellation of said
lease, but that the directors of said company at a meeting
held to consider the matter resolved not to institute such
action. He charges that +he lease was made without legislative authority, and was therefore ultra *viresand void; and
also that it was not ratified by a majority of the stockholders
of the Shelby Railroad Company. The Shelby Railroad
Company filed its bill on the 4th day of A-igust, 1888, but
rested its attack on the validity of the lease on the ground
that it had not been ratified by a majority of its stockholders.
In'disposing of these cases, therefore, two questions must be
considered. First, was there legislative sanction for such a
lease; and second, if so, was it ratified by a majority of the
stockholders of the Shelby Railroad Company. With reference to the first: On January 22, 1858, the legislature of
Kentucky passed a general statute &hich in terms gave to all

HANCOCK v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD CO.

411

Opinion of the Court.

-railroad companies .in the Commonwealth "power and authority to make, with each other, contracts of the following chatacter: . . . 2d, for the leasing of one company to another,
provided the road so leased shall be so connected as to form a

continuous .line;
_provided, however, that all such
contracts shall be approved by a majority in interest of all'the"
stockholders of each of the contracting companies, at some
statedor called meeting of the same." 1 Sess. Laws, 1857-58, 10.
It, is claimed that the lessor's and lessee's roads do-not form
a continuous line, within the meaning of this statute, and

that, therefore, the condition upon which a valid lease could
be made was wanting. The main line of the lessee's road
extends in a northeasterly direction from Louisville to Cincinnati. At Anchorage, about twelve miles east of Louisville,
the Shelbyville road touches it. At the time of the lease the
latter road was completed from the, place of junction to
Shelbyville, a distance of about eighteen miles, the general
course being a trifle south of east. There was a physical con-'
nection b etween the two roads at Anchorage, the latter being
the western terminus of the Shelby-ville road. From this
place the main line of the lessee road extends northeasterly,
and the Shelbyville road southeasterly, making two forks of
the letter "V." Shelbyvilie is nearly due east from Louisville, and the Shelbyville road, together with'the twelve miles
of the lessee's road, make a continuous line between Shelbyville and Louisville, in a route about as straight as the average railroad. But Anchorage is not a terminus of the -lessee
road, and the contention is, that under the statute .the leased
line must touch one of the termini of the lessee's road, so s
to make an extension of it.' As counsel expresses it: "Where
*tworoads are in such connection or juxtaposition with each
othqr as that the leasing of one by the other will extend or
lengthen the line and create a new terminus, the act applies,
and it applies only in such a case." In reference to this contention, the learned judge of the Circuit Court observed:
"This construction would authorize the Shelby Railroad Company to lease the L. C. & L. railroad from its junction near
Anchorage to Louisville, but not the L. C. & L. R. R. Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
. Opinion .of the- Court.

pany to lease the Shelby railroad from the junction to Shelbyvile."
We think this suggestion pertinent, and that the contention of appellant, Hancock, cannot be sustained. It is enough
that by the lease the connected roads form a continuous line,
and it is not essential that the leased line be an extension
from either terminus of the lessee's road. The evil which.
was intended to be guarded against by this limitation was the
placing of parallel and competing roads under one management, and the control by one company of the general railroad
affairs of the State through the leasing of roads remote
from its own, and with which it has n; physical or direct
business connection. It was not intended to prevent a company with a long road, like the lessee company, from leasing
branches by means of which it establishes continuous lines
from their several termini to each of its own.. By this lease
a direct and continuous line from Louisville to Shelbyville
was created, and neither the letter nor the spirit of the statute was thwarted.
But the chief r~liance of counsel is on the other question.
The Shelby Railroad Company is a corporation created by
an act of the general assembly of Kentucky, of date March
15, 1851. 2,Sess. Laws 1850-51, 364, c. 431. That act was
amended March 10, 1854, 2 Sess. Laws 1853-54, 453, c. 913;
February 15, 1858, 2 Sess. Laws 1857-58, 158, c. 554; and
February 3, 1869, 1 Sess. Laws 1869, 260, c. 1393. By the.
last amendIment a part of Shelby County, the boundaries
being specifically prescribed in the act, was authorized to
subscHibe $300,000 to the stock of the company, if a majority
of the votes cast at an election should favor such subscription.
The result of the'election was to be entered on the records
of the county court, and if favorable the county judge wap to
cause the subscription to be made in the name of said portion
of Shelby County, and to issue bonds in its name in payment
thereof. In pursuance of this act an election was had, and,
being in favor of the subscription, it was made, and bonds'to
the amount of $300,000 were executed and delivered to the
railroad company on June 1, 1869. The original charter

HA-WCOCK

LOUISVILLE RAILROAD CO.,
Lo.

413

Opinion of the Court.

authorized the county of Shelby to subscribe for stock, the
subscription to be made payable at such times and upon such
terms as should be agreed upon, with no provision for the
issue of the bonds, but with authority to levy and collect
taxes for the purpose of paying such subscription. Section
26 of the act reads:
"That each and every person who pays any part of said
tax shall be entitled to hispro rata share of said stock in the
respective companies authorized and contemplated in this
act, and into the treasury of which said tax is paid, and shall
be entitled to demand and receive a certificate so soon as he
shall have paid for afull, half or quarter share, or shall produce transfers from those who have paid portions, so. as to entitle him to a full, half or quarter share."
The amendment of 1869, which authorized the issue of
bonds, also directed a tax to pay the interest and principal of
such bonds; and in section 9, provided:
"The' several counties and portions of counties shall not
votethe stock for which certificates may be issued to the
taxpayers, but the same shall be voted by the individual
stockholders."
After the issue of these bonds, and on March 11, 1870, an
act amending the charter was passed, 2 Sess. Laws' 1869-40,
248, c. 626, section 3 of which is as follows:
"1That when any county or part of a county, city, town, or
precinct, shall have delivered its bonds in payment for stock
subscribed, it shall be entitled to representation and to vote
the amount of such stock in any meeting of the stockholders
of said company. The stock owned by a county shall be
represented by the cdunty judge and all of the justices of the
peace of the county; stock owned by a part of a county
or a precinct, by the-county judge and by the justices of the
peace residing in the district or precinct taxed."
And on February 26, 1873, a further amendment provided
that the part of Shelby County which subscribed stock and
issued bonds should have "the corporate name of ' The Shelby
Railroad District of Shelby County,' and by that name may
sue and be sued."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Now the bills allege that $267,775 of stock was voted at
the meeting authorizing the lease, by the representatives of
the "Shelby Railroad District of Shelby County," under the
authority of the last two acts of the general assembly, and
that without such vote the majority of the stockholders did
not approve the lease. At that time this amount of the
bonds, issued in payment of the subscription, was outstanding.
It is..true there had been an exchange of the old for new
bonds at a lower rate of interest, but the principal of the
indebtedness -to that amount still remained. The question,
therefore, is whether. this stock was properly voted by the
representatives bf the "Shelby Railroad District of Shelby
County."
This pre~ise question was presented to the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky, in a consolidated action to which certain taxpayers, the Shelby Railroad Company, and the "Shelby Railroad District of Shelby County" were parties, Ereiger v.
Shelby Railroad Co., 84: Kentucky, 66, and by that court
.decided in favor of the right of the district to vote the stock.
An attempt was 'made to have the judgment of that court
reviewed by this, but the case was dismissed for want of
jurisdiction, on: the ground that no Federal question was involved. .Ereigerv. Shelby Railroad Co., 125 U. S. 39. While
that case may not work an estoppel by judgment, by reason
of a difference of parties, it is an authority to be respected, if
not filowed.
But, passing that matter, what are the merits of these
cases? The contention is, that, by the acts. of 1851 and 1869,
rights in the stock were vested in the taxpayer, which could
not be divested after the issue of the bonds, though attempted
to be, by the legislature, in the acts of 1870 and 1873, or as
more fully expressed in the brief:
"The acts of 1851 and 1869 confer on the individual stockholders rights which are impaired by the acts of 1870 and
1873; that is, that the exclusive right to vote at stockholders'
meetings, and the sole right to receive dividends given by the
acts of 1851 and 1869, to the individual stockholders and
those who should become so by the payment of taxes, is im-

HANCOCK v. LOUISVILLE rAILROAD CO.

415

Opinion of the Court.

paired by the acts of 1870 and 1873, which grant the right to
the Shelby Railroad District of Shelby County to v6te at
stockholders' meetings."
With respect to the matter of dividends, we have, in this
case, no need of inquiry. The single question is, as to the
right to vote this stock. The Court of Appeals held that a
corporation was in fact created by the act of 1869, granting
authority to a defined portion of Shelby County to subscribe
stock and vote bonds; that that corporation, by virtue of the
subscription and issue of the bonds, became the owner of the
stock; and that the acts of 1870 and 1873 simply prescribed
who should represent the corporation, and by what name it
should be known. Counsel. criticise this ruling severely, asserting that corporations are never created by implication, and
that there is in the act of 1869, in terms, no attempt to create
one. But this is a matter of a purely local nature. A corporation may -be formed in any manner that a State sees fit
to adbpt; and when the highest court of a State decides that,
by certain legislation, a corporation has been created, such decision concludes not only the courts of the State, but also those
of the United States. It is a matter over which we have no
review, and in respect to which the decision of the state court
is final. If it were an open question, it would be difficult to
avoid reaching the.same conclusion. By the act of 1869, this
prescribed portion of Shelby County was authorized to issue
bonds and subscribe stock. The bonds when issued were not
the obligations of Shelby County, nor of the individual tatpayers; and still there must be some debtor. That debtor
was this portion of Shelby County. Giving to it power to
issue bonds and create indebtedness, is the creation of an
entity with power to act, and if this entity has power to create
a debt, it becomes subject to suit. That this entity was not,
in terms, named a corporation is not decisive. It is enough
that an artificial entity was created, with power to exercise
the functions of a corporation. It was, though not named, a
corporate entity, and the acts of 1870 and 1873,'as well said
by the Court of Appeals, simply designate who should act for
this corporate entity and give it a name. As a corporate en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tity, it issued bonds and-subscribed for the stock. It became
thereby the owner of the stock, and, as owner, it was entitled
to exercise all the rights and privileges of ownership, includ.
ing the right to vote the stock, unless the legislature creating
it and prescribing its powers had, in terms, vested such con.
trol of the stock in other hands.
But it is said that the acts of 1851 and 1869, in substance.
gave to each taxpayer at the time of paying his tax an equal
aiount of the.stock ; that an amount of taxes had been paid
prior to this lease nearly equal to the entire issue of the bonds;
and that, therefore, there was substantially no stock left in
the district which it had a right to vote. But the original
act authorized no bonds; and did not provide for the payment
of the subscription by the issue of bonds, but by taxes levied
in amount and at times necessary to pay it according to its
terms. When the taxpayer paid his taxes hein effect, paid to
the railroad company a proportionate amount of the subscription; and the provision was in substance that *he should take
the stock which he had then paid for. There was, therefore,
an equality between the stock and the taxes, and the county
was simply an agent to collect the taxes and pay them over
to the company, and receive the stock and transfer it to the
taxpayer. But the act of 1869 authorized a radical change;
and this newly created corporation was not merely the conduit
through which money passed from the taxpayer to the company, but it became an independent subscriber, making its
own subscription and issuing its own bonds in payment therefor. Those bonds represent and are- the equivalent of the
stock, and until the taxpayer pays those bonds he has equitably no right to the stock. It is true the terms of the original
charter were not changed by the amendment of 1869; but to
hold that the parties thus far paying taxes -taxes which
mainly have gone to the payment of the interest on th6 bonds
-are entitled to the stock works this unreasonable result:
Though $300,000 and over of interest has now been paid, the
bulk of the bonds'remain outstanding, and are yet to be paid,
as well as several hundred thousand dollars of interest. • Shall
the whole issue of stock be absorbed by those who pay the

HANCOCK v. LOUISVILLE RAILROAD CO.

417

Opinion of the Court.

first interest on the bonds, leaving to those who thereafter pay
taxes for account of future interest and to discharge the principal, no right to any stock; or shall the railroad company be
compelled to issue stock in excess of the $300,000? Nothing
of the latter kind is provided for; nothing to indicate that
the district can, by extending the bonds and paying interest,
compel an additional issue of stock. All the stock that the
Tailroad company was called upon to issue by the terms of
its contract was the $300,000, and that was paid for by the
bonds; and the taxpayer's equity in the stock only arises as he
pays the bonds, and not as he simply pays interest on them.
The character of the transaction contemplated by the act of
1851 ind the difference created by the amendment of 1869,
as above indicated, is made clearer by section, 20 of the former
act, providing "that said company shall not issue certificates
of stock until the same shall be paid for." In other words,
payment of taxes paid the subscription, and of course worked
a right to the stock then paid for. This provision was not
changed by the amendment of 1869, but the subscription made
by the district was paid for at the time by the issue of its
bonds; and having been paid for, it was the duty of the company to issue its stock; and to whom should it be issued but
to the party who had made the payment, to wit, the district?
Having paid for and owning and possessing the stock, who
should vote it? Obviously the owner; and its right to vote
should not be diminished until and except when the amount
which it has paid for the stock in bonds is made good to it by
.the taxpayers. Such was the construction placed upon this
matterby the Court of Appeals; and we think that construction, notwithstanding some little obscurity in the language of
the various statutes, is correct.
With reference to the suggestion made by the counsel for
the appellees, that the delay in bringing these suits is such
laches 'as defeats any rights which existed in the first instance,
we refer to the case of The St. Louis, *Fandalia& Terre Haute.
RailroadCompany v. The Terre Eaute and 1n2UanapolisRailroad Company, ante, 393.
Afflrmed.
The decrees are
VOL. CXLV-27

