ROSSMAN v. -IIEDDEN.
-Statement of the Case.

made by a public proclamation of the President, which has the
force of public law, and of which all courts and officers must
take notice, whether especially called to their attention or not.
Jones v. United Stats, 137 U. S. 202, 212, 215.
Judgment

mrmed.

ROSSMAN v. HEDDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 332.

Argued April 25,1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

Plain glazed and plain enamelled tiles, imported in February, May and
June, 1886, were subject to a duty of fifty-five per cent as other earthen
ware not specially enumerated.
The classification of a dutiable article is to be determined as of the date
when the law imposing the duty was passed.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was an action brought in the- Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York to
recover duties alleged to have been paid under protest upon
three importations of tiles by the steamships Canada, Furnessia and Rhaetia, entered at the port of New York in 1886.
The, case was tried by the Circuit Court (Lacombe, J.) and a
jury in October, 1888.
From the bill of exceptions it appears that the plaintiff
introduced testimony* showing the importation of the tiles
described -in the bill of particulars, and that the defendant, as
collector of customs, levied and collected duty at 55 per cent
ad valorem thereon; and that the plaintiff in due season protested and appealed to the Secretary of the Treasury, and
brought suit within the time prescribed by law.
The ground of the objection stated in the protests was, as
to the Furnessia, that the tiles "were dutiable at 35 % ad.
valorem, under section ".2499, Rev. Stat., by similitude to
VOL. CxLv-36

562 "

OQTOBER TERM. 1891.
Statement of the Case.

encaustic tiles;" and as to the Canada and Rhaetia, that the
tiles "1weredutiable at 20 % ad valorem, under Tariff Schedule B, as paving tile, directly or by virtue of section 2499,
IRev. Stat. If not so dutiable, then they should pay 35 %, by
similitude to encaustic tiles, under said section aid schedule."
Testimony was given showing "that upon the entry ex
Canada, Feb'y 24, '86, a .portion of the duty was paid on the
26th day of February, 1886, and the remainder on the 10th
day of Mt y 1886. The only goods in this suit upon said
,entry were two packages of tiles, marked D. F. & T., 25,306,
25,307, on which duty was taken on entry at 35 % ad valorem,
thaame l eing entered as encaubtic tiles; both of said packages were delivered to the plaintiff on or before March 18,
1886; duties on said entry to the amount of $126.10 were
paid February 26, 1886 (the date of said entry); and an
increased'-duty of $14.30 (total, $140.40)'was.paid May 10th,'
1886. Thebill of particulars .claimed, as an excess of duty on
this entry, $12.20.

.

.

Testimony was further given that all the tiles in dispute
were called in trade plain glazed and plain enamelled tiles.
Those having the color in the glaze are termed enamelled,.
and those having the color in the body are termed plain
glazed.
The goods were described in the plaintiff's entries as follows: I.- By the Canada, February 26, .1886: Two packages
encaustic tiles. 2. By the Furnessia, May 25, 1886: Eight
casks plain white tiles. 3. By the Rhaetia, June 4, 1886:
I.ight hogsheads, one case, earthenware tiles. "The invoice
by the Furnessia described the goods as glazed earthenware
tles.'?
'Witnesses after testifying to the use of tiles on March 3,
1883,-and prior thereto, -were asked as to their use since, and
for what purposes thiy wer9e used or intended. to be used now,
or for what purposes imported;- but the court sustained objections to the questions and plaintiff excepted.
Testinlony was adduced on plaintiff's behalf "by dealers in
ties of long experience, that on March 3, 1883, and immediately prior thereto, the tiles in silt -were used in this country

. ROSSMAN v. HEDDEN:
Statement Qf the Case.

to lay down. in cement in vestibules, on hearths, bath-room
floors and walls, on kitchen floors under sinks, intersperged
with unglazed tiles on floors in church chancels, conservatories,
hospital floors and walls, and generally in places where either
a non-absorbent cleanly tile was required or where there was
little wear and tear and a particularly ornamental effect was
desired;" *and also "by impprteis and large dealers in tiles'of
many years' experience that at the date of the passage of the
act of March 3, 1883, the term paving tile had no meaning in
the trade- and commerce of this eountry" different from its
ordinary meaning, and meant tiles used for paving, and gave
'evidence tending to show that plaintif's importations per
Canada and, Rhaetia, were such tiles;" and also "by architects of long experience in this country thatplaintiff's tiles
were used for paving purposes; that tiles used for hearths
were considered paving tiles; that the hearth, architecturally,
was a part and an extension of the floor, and that a paving
tile was a tile made to be laid horizontally and flat and
intended so to be used.
"It appea red, however, that the principal use of the tile
imported per Furnessia, represented at the trial by sample'
Exhibit No. 5, was for walls, though sometimes u~ed Ir
hearths, bath-room floors, and under kitchen sinks and other
places, at the date of the passage. of the act of Marrah 3, 1883 ;
that it was used for the same general purposes as' glazed
encaustic tiles.
"That encaustic tiles consist of two varieties, glazed 'and
unglazed; the unglazed being generally used for floors afid
hearths and the glazed being generally used on walls, thdugh
sometimes for hearths and other places.
"Testimony was also given on the part of the plaintiff, by,
large dealers in earthenware of long experience, that the term
'earthbnware' -as used in the trade and commerce of this
country, does not, and did not at the date of the passage of
the tariff act of March 3, 1883, include tiles of any kind, but
referred principally to tableware and pottery.
"It further appeared that all the tiles in suit and all paving
and encaustic tiles described in Tariff Schedule B, are made

OCTOBER TERI-,

1891.

Statement of the Case.

of clay, all baked in kilns, and generally made by the dust
process, from pulverized clay molded under pressnre in a dry
state..
, "Witnesses on the part of the defendant, including manufacturers of tiles, officers of tile companies, dealers, and salesmen of tiles, tile designers and architects, all of large and long
experience, testified that'the term paving tile had a well-known
designation and definition in the trade and commerce of this
country on March 3d, 1883, and prior thereto, and referred to
an unglaied, hard-baked tile used for flooring purposes, and
that the term paving tile and flooring tile at that time were
interchangeably used to denote the same kind of a tile; that
the tiles in suit were made of a different kind of clay from
the so-called paving tile; that the body 6f the plaintiff's tiles
in suit was softer, more porous, and a more expensive body
than the body of a paving tile; that the body of the tiles in
suit was composed of china clay, Cornwall stone and flint, and
some other materials, costing from $15 to $22 a ton, while
the clay used in the manufacture of paving tile is a different
and chea~per kind of clay, worth $1.50 a ton, and is not porous
and not absorbent, and which body is baked hard to stand the
wear and tear of being trod or walked upon; that paving tiles
were used to be walked and trod upon where there was wear
and tear, and that the tiles such as plaintiff's were used for
walls, facings, dadoes, and decorative purposes, and sometimes
used in modern hearths, which are protected by a fender and
raised from the floor and not to be walked upon and are
considered part of the mantels and grates and not as a part
of the floor; that such tiles as plaintiff's have been used
somewhat for hearths since M arch 3, 1883,and were not used
to any extent on hearths prior to March 3d, 1883.
"That the"tiles in suit were not adapted for any wear and
tear, and would be dangerous to walk- upon on account of
their slippery surface, and easily become broken if used for
flooring purposes, except for ornament on floor borders. That
encaustic tiles are made of several kinds of clay instead of one
only, with the colors burned in.
"That encaustic tiles are both glazed and unglazed; that the

R.OSSMAI

v. REDDEN.

Statement of the Case.

unglazed encaustic were sometimes used for flooring purposes,
and the glazed encaustic were for ornamental purposes, and
for walls, dadoes and facings.
"The tiles are now generally made by the dust process, dry
clay being subjected to great pressure in moulds, and then
baked; that the paving tiles are baked once, the glazed or
enamelled tiles are baked twice; that the modern hearth is
about eighteen or twenty inches wide, guarded by a brass or
iron fender, and is not used to be walked upon, and that such
hearth is not considered by architects to be a part of the floor.
"1The testimony of a potter of very long experience tended
to show that in his experience these articles were earthenware."
During the course of the trial the court held that there was
no "room for the similitude doctrine," and that there was
only a single question for the jury, "whether they are paving
tiles or not," and plaintiff excepted.
As to the importation 'by the Canada, the court instructed
that the verdict must be for the defendant "for the reason
that the. payment was not in fact made to obtain possession of
the goods." As to that by the Furnessia, the court directed
a verdict for the defendant because the protest of the plaintiff
restricted him to the single claim of similitude to encaustic
tile, which could not be sustained upon the testimony. As to
the importation by the Rhaetia, the court charged:
"The old English word ' ware,' with which you are familiar
in the combination of hardware, tinware, etc., is a comprehensive word. It is defined by Worcester and Webster as ' goods,
commodities, merchandise,' and in the same dictionaries the
term ' earthenware' is defined as 'ware made of earth or clay.'
" Reading for the word ' ware' the definition which the dictionary gives for it, we Wil find as the definition of ' earthenware '' goods, commodities or merchandise made of earth or
clay.'

"That, you see, is a very general, broad and comprehensive
word, and it was evidently used by Congress in that same
sense, for we find the word ' earthenware' used as the heading
of a schedule which contains articles as dissimilar as a porcelain teacup, a Parian vase, a fire-brick, and a slate pencil.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

"To which plaintifl by his counsel, then and there excepted.
"It is sufficiently broad, this word earthenware, to cover
til6s, to cover the articles imported by the plaintiff here as
they appear and have been described by the witnesses; therefore, unless they are covered by some other provision of the
tariff act, they must be held dutiable as earthenware and the
determination of the collector in that respect sustained.
"To which the plaintiff, by his counsel, then and there
excepted."
Several instructions were requested by plaintiff and refused,
but as the affirmative rulings involved the disposition of the
questions presented by themi, they need not be repeated here.
The jury found a verdict for the defendant, and judgment
was entered thereon, and a motion for new trial having been
-overruled, the case was brought by writ of error to this court.
The charge of the court is reported in full in 37 Fed. Rep. 99.
By section 6 of the act of March 3, 1883, (22 Stat. 488, 491,'
495, c. 121,) the following sections of the Revised Statutes
were regnacted as amended.
"SEc. 2499. There shall be levied, collected and paid on
each and every non-enumerated article which bears a similitude, either in material, quality, texture or the use to which it
may be applied, to any article enumerated in this title as
chargeable with duty, the same rate of duty which is levied
and charged on the enumerated article whish it most resembles
in-any of the particulars before mentioned; and if any nonenumerated article equally resembles two or more enumerated
articles on which different rates are chargeable, there shall be
levied, collected and paid on such non-ennmnerated article the
same rate of duty as is chargeable on the article which it
resembles paying the highest duty; and on all articles manufactured from two or more materials the duty shall be assessed
at the highest rates at which the component material of chief
value may be chargeable."
"SEC. 2502. There shall be levied, collected and paid upon
all articles imported from foreign countries, and mentioned in
the schedules herein contained, the rates of duty which are,
by the schedules, respectively prescribed, namely:"

ROSSMAN v.

IEIDDEI6

Opnion of the Court.

"SCHEi)ULE

B.-EARTHENWIRE

AND GLASSWA E.

"Brown earthenware, common stoneware, gas retorts and
st6neware not ornamented, twenty-five per centum ad valorem.
"China, pprcelain, parian and bisque, earthen, stone and
crockery ware, including plaques, ornaments, charms, vases
and statuettes; painted, printed or gilded, or otherwise decorated or ornamented in any m&nner, sixty per centum ad
valorem.
"China., porcelain,' parian and bisque ware, plain white, and
not ornamented or decorated in any manner, fifty-five per
centum ad valorem.
"All. other earthen, stone and crockery ware, white, glazed
or edged, composed of' earthy or mineral substances, not specially enumerated or provided for in this, act, fifty-five per
centum ad valorem.
"Stoneware above the capacity of ten gallons, twenty per
centum ad valorem.
"Encaustic tiles, thirty-five per centum ad valorem.
"Brick, 'fre-brick and roofing and paving tile, not'speially
ennumerated or provided for in this act, twenty per centum ad
valorem.
"Slate, slate-pencils, slate chimney pieces, mantels, slabs
for tables and all other manufactu.es of slate, thirty per
centum ad valorem.
"Roofing-slates, twenty-five per centum ad valorem."
-Mr. Edward Hartley for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Parker for defendant in
error.
MR. CHIEF JusTrcE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
By the protest as to the importation by the. Rhaetia it 'was
claimed that the goods were subject to dutyr at twenty per

OCTOBER TERN, 1891.
(pinioh of -the Court.

cent as paving tiles, or by similitude to paving tiles, or charglable-at thirty-ftve per cent'by similitude to encaustic tiles.
The entry described the articles -as "eight hogsheads, one
case, earthenware tiles," .and the collector assessed them as
earthenware composed of earthy substances. Tie court held
that the, similitude clause did not apply,' and the jury found
against the plaintiff upon the only issue submitted to them,
namely, whether the articles were paving tiles or earthenware.
It was iot contended that these tiles were encaustio tiles, composed of several kinds of clay instead of one only; and as to
their identity with paving tiles, defendant's evidence tended
to show that at the time of the passage of the act paving tiles
were commercially known as unglazed, hard-baked tiles, and
that the tiles in suit were of a different kind of clay, composed
of softer, more porous and more expensive clays, and costing
ten times as niuch as paving-tile clay. We must assume that
the tiles were neither encaustic nor paving tiles, and if they
properly fell within the fourth paragraph they cannot be held
'to be non-enumerated articles and taxed by similitude. Artkur
v. ButterA~eld, 125 U. S. 70; -M'ason v. Robertson, 139 U. S. 624f.
The covering of -roofs, floors, and walls with tiles made of
many different materials is of very ancient origin, and there
is much interesting information in respect of their manufac,ture and that of' pottery to be found in works on those subjects.
So far as this case is concerned, we see no reason to question
the -sufficiency of the ordinary definition of tiles as plates or
,pieces of baked clay, used for covering roofs, floors and walls,
and for ornamental work of various kinds, as well as for
drains; etc. And that such pieces being made of earth are
earthen, and being 'earthen goods, commodities or merchandise, are "earthenware," we think is clear.
as "vessels, and other
Webster defines "earthenware"
utensils, ornaments, or the like, made of baked clay;" and we
agree with counsel for defendant in error that 'the words "or
the like," and the cross-reference to "pottery," are broad
enough to includ&the tiles in suit under the fourth paragraph.
-The title to Schedule B divides the subjects under it into

ROSSAIMAN v. HEDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

two classes, "earthenware," and "glassware,"

but counsel

insists that the groups ae three: "(1) earthenware; (2) tiles,
brick, and slate; (3) glass and glaps articles."
Reference is made to the tariff legislation since 1842 to
show that tiles and earthenware were considered different
things, and that tiles were always associated with bricks as
similar things. It is argued that this distinction was intended
to be preserved in the act under consideration; but, we are
of opinion that this conclusion does not follow, and that it
was the intention of Congress to place all of the articles in
Schedule B in one or the other of the two classes designated
in the heading. All of the schedule relates to glass, except
th. first nine paragraphs. The first five, it is conceded, relate
solely to earthenware, and the next four are encaustic tiles;
brick, fire-bick, and. rodfing and paving tiles; slates, slatepencils, etc.; and roofing slates; all consisting of earths,
though only two hardened by man. These four are all in
some respects in similitude, and although a difference between
a Sevres vase and a roofing slate may be admitted, they are
not inappropriately placed where they are, and we perceive
no adequate ground for holding that they should be treated
as a class by themselves.
The fact seems to be that these tiles were decorative earthenware tiles, called in trade, as appears from the evidence,
plain glazed and plain enamelled tiles, those having the color
in the glaze being termed enamelled, and those having the
color in the body being termed plain glazed; and in reference
to such tiles the department ruling is that they are properly
assessed as "glazed earthenware." Syn. Dec. 1885, 7051; and
see -d. 1877, 3352; Nd. 1878, 3705.
We think the view taken by the court entirely correct, and
this disposes also of the importation by the Furnessia. The
protest rested upon the sole ground that the articles "were
dutiable at 35 % ad valorem, under section 2499, Rev. Stat.,
by similitude to encaustic tiles." The articles were described
in plaintiff's entry as "eight casks plain white tiles," and in
the invoice as "glazed earthenware tiles." The collector
taxed them under the fourth paragraph.

'OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

It appeared that the principal use of these tiles was for
walls, though sometimes used for hearths, bath-room floors,
and under sinks, and for the same general purposes as glazed
encaustic tiles; but if they were covered by the fourth paragriph then they could not be classed with encaustic tiles by
similitude. And that these "plain white tiles," or "glazed
earthenware tiles" were within that paragraph, follows from
what we have already said. There was nothing, to be submitted to the jury.
The tiles brought by the Canada were described in plaintiff's entry as "two packages encaustic tiles," and were delivered to plaintiff on or before March 18, 1886. It was
shown that a portion of the duty was 'paid on the day of
entry, Februal-y 26, and the remainder May 10. As plaintiff
had been in possession of these tiles for some weeks before
payment of the excess, he did not pay in order to obtain possession, and the instruction of the' court to find for the defendant was therefore correct.
Plaintiff's counsel insists that he originally paid the difference between paving tiles and encaustic tiles to obtain possession, but as the tiles were described as encaustic, and chargeable by law as such at a duty of thirty-five per cent, this contention is inadmissible. There is nothing to show that the
Circuit Court was apprised that plaintiff's claim was that he
had paid the excess between twenty and thirty-five per cent,.
and as payment of the excess between thirty-five and fiftyfive per cent was made May 10, and the protest filed and appeal
taken to the Secretary of the Treasury on that day, it is plain
that the Circuit Court was not mistaken as to the facts.
Finally, we are of opinion that the court did not err in
excluding evidence as to the purposes for which similar tiles
were.used after March 3, 1883, or for what purposes they
were intended to be used or were imported, at the time of the
trial. This came within the rule that the classification is to
be determined as of the date when the law imposing the duty
was passed. Curtis v. Xartin, 3 How. 106, 109; American
Net -andTwine .Co. v. Worthington, 141 U. S. 468, 471.
Judgment affirmed.

