PEWABIC MINING COMPANY v. MASON.
Syllabus.

PEWA13IC MINING COMPANY v. MASON.
MARCUS v. MASON.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Nos. 1340,1416.

Argued March 16,17, 1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

When a sale of property is decreed by a court of equity as the result of a
litigation, it is the policy of the law that it shall not be set aside for
trifling causes or matters which the complaining party might have attended to.
When such a sale is attacked the court will scrutinize all previous action of
the parties during the litigation, which may throw light upon or explain
their action at the sale.
It cannot be tolerated that either party should designedly wait until the
property has been struck off to the other, and then open the bidding and
defer the sale by an increased offer.
When a corporation owning real estate is wound up by reason of the expiration of the term for which it was incorporated, and its real estate is
sold by decree of court under directions of a master, stockholders may
purchase it, and there is no fraud on other stockholders if a part of the
stockholders combine to purchase it for the benefit of an adjoining property owned by them.
Litigants prolonging litigation to the extent of their ability in a suit in
equity seeking the sale of real estate, and prolonging their resistance by
having the sale postponed after the decree, cannot complain if it takes
place finally in a time of financial depression.
The court decreed in this case that the assets of the mining company should
b6 sold at public vendue, that the debts of the company should be ascertained by a-master as a basis for the bid, and that the sale should take
place on the confirmation of his report. -eld, that it was not intended
that the sale should be delayed till every claim arising since the commencement of the suit should have passed to final judgment; but that a
mere statement.of the amount should be presented as a basis for fixing
an upset price.
No leave of court is necessary to enable a litigating stockholder to bid at
such sale of the assets of the corporation under a decree in the suit in
which he is a litigant.
The provisions in equity rule 83 respecting exceptions to a master's report
do not apply to a report of a mere ministerial matter like a sale, but only
to a report upon matters heard and determined by him.
The master's sale under the decree was advertised to take place in Michigan

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
on Saturday, January 24. Late in the evening of Friday, Jatiuary 23, the
master received from M. a telegram from Boston, in Massachusetts, stating that he was a holder of nearly 3000 shares of stock, that he had just
beard of the sale, that it was to take place on the Jewish Sabbath, that his
Jewish friends wished to buy but would not attend on the Sabbath, and
asking for a postponement. The sale took place on the 24th as announced,
whereupon, on the 26th M. again telegraphed protesting and making an
offer in advance of the purchaser's hWd. The master reported this in his
report of the sale. The sale was confirmed. The day after the confirmation M. asked leave to intervene and have the sale set aside. In the subsequent proceedings no proof was offered that M. was a-shareholder, and
it appeared affirmatively that he- had no financial responsibility. Held,
that if it had been planned he could not.have been more opportunely
ignorant before the.sale, or more accurately informed after the confirmation, and that his intervention was too late.

THE

court stated the case as follows:

These cases spring out of the same litigation and may be
considered together. The preliminary facts are these: On
April 4, 1853, the Pewabic Mining Company was organized
as a corporation for mining copper, under the laws of the
State of M ichig'an. The term of the corporation was for
thirty years, and expired April 4, 1883. The capital stock at
that time consisted of 40,000 shares, of $25 each. Notwithstanding the termination of the life of the corporation, the
directors then in office continued its business without change.
On March 26, 1881, at a meeting of the stockholders, by a
'vote of 27,919 against 6'[54 shares, the directors were authorized to dispose of the property at a sum nofless than $50,000,
and a sale was directed to be made to a new corporation, to
be organized on the basis of 40,000 shares, the shares in the
old to be exchanged in full payment for shares in the new,
the stockholders in the old, not electing to join the, new, to
receive their pro'rat interest in money. The present. appellees were stockholders in, the old corporation, owning 2650
shares, and protested against these resolutions. A new corporation was organized, but, before the transfer had been made,
the appellees filed their bill in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Michigan, the purpose of
which was to enjoin the proposed transfer of the property of

PEWABIC MINING COMPANY v. MASON.
Statement of the Case.

the old to the new corporation, and to have it sold at public
auction, and the proceeds divided ratably among the stockholders. This bill was filed March 31, 1884. On final hearing a decree was entered sustaining the prayer of the bill, and
directing a sale of the property at public vendue, for cash, to
the highest bidder, and referring the cause to Peter -White as
special master, with power to ascertain the assets and debts
of the mining company, and directing that, after ascertaining
and making report thereof to the court, he should proceed to
sell the'property at public vendue. (25 Fed. Rep. 882.)
From that decree an appeal was taken, and thereafter this
court sustained the decree so far as it ordered a sale. In
reference to the accounting before the master, it,- however,
directed that it should be widened so as to include the. proce'edings of the directors since the dissolution of the corporation. "The opinion of this court was. announced January 13,
1890. (133- U., S. 50..) The mandate was issued February 6,
and was filed in the Circuit Court on March 14, 1890. In the
execution of the decree a sale was made by the master on the
24th of January 1891, more than a year after its affirmance
by this court, the purchasers being Thomas Henry Mason' and
William Hart Smith, two of the original plaintiffs, and the
price paid being $710,000. The sale was confirmed-; and to
set aside the confirmation and to. open the sale were the matters sought to be accomplished by the three appeals taken in
these two cases.
The specification of errors in the Pewabic Mining Company.
case was as follows:
"1. That the court below erred in overruling the first excwption. taken by the appellant to the report of the sale of the
special master, viz.-: 'That the said sale mentioned in said"
report was made before the debts and the assets of said
defendants, the Pewabic Mining Company, were ascertained
as provided for and required in the decree entered'in said
cause2
"2. That the court below, erred in overruling the fifth
exception taken by the appellant to the report of the sale
of the special master, viz.: 'Because said ,property was sold

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

for an inadequate price or sum, and for much less than it is
worth.'
"3. That, under the mandate of this court, nothing less
than ' all the assets and property of the said Pewabic Mining
Company' 'in one body'could be sold by said master; but
that by the order of the court confirming the sale, an exception was made therefrom of the claims against the directors,
so that in fact all of said assets and property were not sold in
one body.
"4. That in disregard of the rules governing the equity practice of the Circuit Courts of the United States, said report was
confirmed within one month from the filing of the report in
court.
"5. That promptly and without laches, and before any
confirmation of said sale had been made as authorized by the
rules governing such practice, and before any confirmation
whatever had become absolute, beyond the power of the said
Circuit Court to set aside, lona fide and well assured offers
of a price largely advanced beyond the highest bid at the
reported sale were presented to this court in support of an
application, from the party so offering and of this appellant,
for the setting aside of said reported sale, and the ordering
of another sale.
"6. That Thomas I. Mason and William Hart Smith,
complainants in this cause, bid at said auction, and that their
bid, as the highest bid, was accepted by the special master,
and the property exposed to sale was struck off to them as
purchasers, when: (a) They had not obtained leave from the
court to bid at said auction; (b) They had advised the court
in the matter of the sale, and pressed forward the sale as parties interested only as sellers to obtain the highest price, and
not at all as buyers interested to obtain the property for the
lowest sum, and that therefore they had no right to bid;
(c) Before so bidding they had concerted with the Quincy
Mining Company a scheme to take the property (if bought)
off their hands at a very large personal profit; and they did
not disclose this fact to the courtsin any of their representations to the court, in the matter of the sale, and they procured

P.WABIC MI qJG
I
0OMPANY v. MASON.

353

Statement of the Case.

affidavits from officers of the Quincy Company aid presented
them to the court, in which this fact'was not disclosed;
(d) Neither did they disclose this fact of their having secured
a sale of this property to the Quincy Mining Company at a
large profit, to the master, their fellow stockholders or the
other bidders at said. sale, nor allow the same then and there
to be 'disclosed, but concealed the same; (e) On the other
hand, while they had obtained this contract and agreement
with the Quincy Mining Company, in accordance with which
they were to buy this property for the purpose of transferring
it to that company, they advised the court that said Quincy
Mining Company would, at the auction ordered, bid as an
independent biddr, in fair and free competition, and pressed
forward the sale for this reason, that if deferred the Quincy
Company might not bid, concealing from the court this contract and agreement, and all their relations with the Quincy
Mining Company in this matter; (V) As a matter of fact the
scheme was carried out. The complainants were both buyers'
and sellers. They advised the court, made the sale, purchased
theproperty, and resold it at an advance which they pocketed
themselves for their own personal benefit,.and in fraud of the
other stockholders.
"'7. That as against a bid accepted under all these circumstances, the Pewabir, Mining Company, having, for a reasonable time, an undoubted right to elect whether to ratify and
enforce the sale, and to demanjl and receive into its own
assets the advance upon the sum bid, which was to be paid to
the acce-pted bidders, or to have the accepted bid rejected,
and the bidchmgs reopened, has exercised that right entirely
within such reasonable time, and is not guilty of laches
in the premises.
"8. That the advance price offered to be bid for the property sold, in case a new sale should be ordered, was large enough
to induce and require the court to open the biddings and to
order such resale, and that such order was amply secured and
guaranteed, and was seasonably made for that purpose."
. In Marcus's case the following additional specifications
were filed.
VOL. cxv-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

1. Because, as a large stockholder, and as making a bona
,§de offer of a great advance over the amount bid at the sale,
he had a right to intervene."
"4. If the sale had not been confirmed prior to the filing
of Marcus's petition, the bond ide offer of so large an advance
price was proper ground for opening the sale and ordering a
resale.
"5. Even if the sale had been confirmed prior to the filing
of Marcus's petition, the action of the court at the same term
in entertaining the petition and in directing order of notice
to issue thereon, suspended the operation of the order of
confirmation.
"6. But, even if the sale had been regularly confirmed
and the decree of confirmation had become of full effect,
under all the circumstances of this case the sale should have
been opened and a resale ordered.
"'7. The petitioner, Marcus , has not been guilty of laches,
which should defeat the granting of his petition."
.-Mr. Thomas . Talbot for the Pewabic Mining Company,
and -r. Robert X. -Morseand 2Mr. J. Lewis Stack2 ole for the
Pewabic Mining Company and Marcus. MAfr. Russell C.
Ostranderwas on the briefs for the company and for Marcus,
and Mr. Charles E. ilellier on the brief for Marcus.
I. The directions of the mandate have been disregarded,
in that the debts and assets of the. Pewabic Company were
not finally ascertained and adjudicated before a sale of any
of the property of the company was ordered and made.
I. The property was sold for an inadequate price.
III. :Under the mandate of this court, nothing less than
"all the assets and property of the said Pewabic Mining
Company in one body" could be sold by said master; but
by the order of the court confirming the sale, an exception
was made therefrom of the claims against the directors, so
that in fact all of said assets and property were not sold in
one body.
IV. The report of sale was confirmed, in disregard of the

PEWA-BIC MINING COMPANY v. MASON.

355

Counsel for Appellees.

rules governing the equity practice of the Circuit Courts,
within thirty days from the filing of the report.
V. Before any valid confirmation of the sale, bona ftde
offers for a largely advanced price were presented to the
court below on an application for a resale.
VI. The sale to the complainants, made without leave of
the court to bid, in pursuance of a secret scheme entered into
with a rival company, in which they were large stockholders,
to turn over the property to it at a large private profit,
undisclosed to either the court, the master, or other bidders,
is contrary to the plainest principles of equity, and must be
annulled. .ason v. Pewabic .Mining Co., 133 U. S. 50;
O'Connor v. Richards, San. & So. 246; Ryder v. Gower,
6 Bro. P. 0. 306; Sidny v. Rangej, 12 Sim. 118; Byrne v.
Lafferty, 8 Ir. Eq. 47; Guest v. Srmythe, L. IR. 5 Ch.551; Ex
parte Lacey, 6 Yes. 625; Lister v. Lister, 6 Yes. 631; Nelthor.pe v. Pennyman, 11 Yes. 517; Downes v. Grazebrook, 3
Meriv. 200; Michoud v. Girod, 4 How. 555; Exparte James,
8 Yes. 337; Randall v. Errington, 10 Yes. 423;
s parte
Bennett, 10 Yes. 381; Parkes v. White, 11 Yes. 210, 226
Hatch v. ilatch, 9 Ves. 292.
VII. The defendants had the right of election between a
confirmation of the sale and receipt of the profits of the
buyers on the one hand, and of its annulment on the other.
This election is a question independent of the date of confirmation by the court below. They--have seasonably exercised
it and have been guilty of no laches.
VIII. The advance price offered to be bid for the property
sold, in case a new sale should be ordered, was large enough
to induce and require the court to open the biddings and to
order such resale, and such offer was abundantly secured and
guaranteed and was seasonably made for that purpose.
"IX. The petitioner Marcus, as a large stockholder and as
making a bona fide offer of a great advance on. the amount
bid at the sale, had the right to intervene.
JXr. Don [. Dickinson (with whom were Mr. Thomas B.
Dun.stan and -Mr. Alfred Russell on the brief) for appellees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891..
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTicE BREwR , after stating the case, delivered the

.opinion of the court.
The question in this case is whether the master's sale shall
stand. It may be stated generally that there is a measure of
discretion in a court of equity, both as to the manner and
conditions of such a sale, as well as to ordering or refusing a
resale. The chancellor will always make such provisions'for
notice and other conditions as will in his judgment best
protect the rights of all interested, and make the sale most
profitable to all; and after a sale has once been made, he will,
certainly before confirmation, see that no wrong has been
accomplished in and by the manner in which it was conducted.
Yet the purpose of the law is that the sale shall be final; and
to insure reliance upon such sales, and induce biddings, it is
essential that no sale be set aside for trifling reasons, or on
account of matters which ought to have been attended to by
the complaining party prior thereto. And in this respect
regard may properly be had to all that has transpired before,
for the conduct of the parties, their acts and omissions, may
largely interpret their action at the *time of the sale. In
order, therefore, to understand fully the merits of these
present appeals we must notice the course of the litigation
and the conduct of the parties prior to the sale.
In 1883 the Pewabic Mining Company ceased to exist; its
property then belonged to the different stockholders as tenants in common. They could not agree among themselves;
The minority appealed to the courts, and there the litigation
was carried on for years; the minority insisting upon a sale,
the majority upon the transfer of the property to a new corporation. At the end of six years the controversy was finally
determined by this court; and in January, 1890, a decree of
the Circuit Court directing a sale was affirmed. During these
years each party was fully aware of the purpose and contention of the other, and, therefore, had ample time to prepare
for whatever might be the outcome of the litigati6n. In
January, 1890, as stated, the final decision was announced; at
that time each party knew that a sale was to be had, and

PEWABIC MINING COMPANY v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

that if it intended to buy it must make all its arrangements
therefor, and in such arrangement must be included a determination of the full amount it was willing to bid for the
property. It cannot be tolerated that it be in the contemplation of either to wait until after the property has been struck
off to the other, and then open the bidding and defer the sale
by an increased offer. Though the final decision in favor of
the sale was announced on January 13, 1890, the sale was
not made until January 24, 1891, more than a year thereafter.
It was advertised to take place, first on Octob er 30, 1890, but
on application of the defendant was postponed till December
20, and again, on like application, to January 24, 1891. It
was fully advertised not only in the local, but also in Detroit,
New York, Boston and Chicago papers. There can be no
pretence, therefore, of haste or a lack of notice, personal and
general.
It is insisted by defendant that the plaintiffs were acting in
the interest of the Quincy M[ining Company, a corporation
owning adjoining and rival mining property; that solely in
its interest, and not for the benefit of the stockholders in the
Pewabic Mining Company, they carried on this litigation,
secured the sale, bought at it, and, in final consummation of
the wrong to their co~wners, have since their purchase conveyed the property to the Quincy Mining Company. There
is a counter-charge by the appellees that the majority of the
stockholders who sought to convey the propekty to the new
corporation, and -whohave been practically the adverse party
in this litigation and who may hereafter be considered as
described by the term defendant, were acting in the interest
of the Franklin Mining Company, another corporation also
owning property adjacent to the Pewabic mine. We are
inclined to think there is truth in each allegation, and that it
is not difficult to read between the lines that the minority
of the stockholders were interested in the Quincy and the
majority in the Franklin Company, and that these respective
corporations were seeking to obtain possession and control of
the Pewabic. But there was no wrong or fraud in this, and
no deception. Each party evidently knew the interests and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891..
Opinion of the Court.'

relations of the other. In the ariswer originally filed by the
defendant, in 1884, it was charged upon the plaintiffs that
they were acting in the interest of a rival mining company.
It is also contended that the sale was made at a time when
a severe financial condition existed in the country, especially
afecting mining stocks and mining property. But the sale
had once been postpo6ned on this ground at defendant's instance, the affidavits as to such depression were met by counteraffidavits on the part of the plaintiffs, and it is adoubtful question, under those affidavits, whether such depression did in
fact exist. Even if it were clear that it did, that would ]lot
necessarily be a reason for further' postponement. There
comes a time in the history of a litigation like this when,
though the times may be depressed, there must be a sale. The
rights of the one party are to be respected as well as those of
the other; and it does not always lie in the mouth of one who,
by strenuous and protracted resistance, has delayed for years
a sale, to claim still further delay on account of the then depressed financial condition. A speedy end of litigation, as
speedy as is consistent with the rights of each party, is to be
desired; and they who prolong litigation by appeal from court
to court must not complain if sometimes they ied themselves,
at the end, under burdens which would not have rested upon
them but for such delay. We think it must be affirmed that,
so far as the general cquitable considerations attending these
cases are concerned, they make in favor of the appellees, and
that a court should not for any light or technical reason disturb a sale consummated at the end of seven years of litiga-

tion.
We. pass, therefore; to some of the special matters presented.
First, it is claimed that under the terms of the decree the sale-

was prematurely made. That decree directed "that all the
assets and property of the said Pewabic Mfining Company be
sold at public vendue, for cash, to the highest bidder: Provided, however, That if at such sale the -bid for the aggregate
of the property and assets of said company should not be in
,excess of fifty ihousand dollars above the amount of the debts
of said company existing at the time of the sale hereinafter

PEWABIC MINING COMPANqY v. ?MASOl.

359

Opinion-of the Court.

decreed, then that the arrangement for the sale of the property
of said company made at the stockholders' meeting in Boston,
on the 26th day of .March, A.D. 1884, and as set up in the defendant's answer, shall be carried out under the direction of
the special master hereinafter designated. . . . It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that this cause be, and is
hereby, referred to Peter White, as special master," for the
following purpose anu with the following powers, to wit,
"That said master proceed to ascertain the assets and property
and the amount of thefdebts of the said Pewabic Mining Company," and "after ascertaining the assets and debts of said
company and making a report thereof to this court, as hereinabove provided, and the confirmation thereof, said master
shall proceed to sell said property at public vendue, to the
highest bidder, in one body, after giving the notices of said
sale required by law and the practice of this court, and that
he make report thereof, and that said property be offered for
sale at the front door of the court-house, in the village of
Houghton, in the county of Houghton and State of Michigan."
This decree was affirmed by this court, the only modification
being in respect to an accountidg with the directors for moneys
received by them after the expiration of the charter. It is
insisted that by.these terms no sale could be had until there
had been a final ascertainment, a judicial determination, of all
debts owing at the time of the sale,as well as of all assets,
including therein claims due to the corporation; that by'the
modification directkd by this court, there was also to be had
an accounting with the directors, and until that was finished
no sale could be had, because it was not as yet judicially ascertained whether they owed the corporation or the- corporation
owed them; in other words, whether there were more debtsor more assets. The master to whom this matter was referred
reported that all debts of the corporation which existed at the
commencement of the suit had been paid; that all the personal
property had been disposed of, leaving only the mine and its
appurtenances; and that the total amount of all the claims
against the c9ompany,, added io $50,000, was less than the
amount-for which he had the pledge of a responsible bid,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

secured by a certificate of stock. This report was filed September 18. On N'Tovember 4 the court confirmed so much of
the report as found that the indebtedness due at the time of
the commencement of the suit had been paid. Other exceptions to the report were sustained, but the court added these
findings and orders:
"Fourth, that for the purpose of fixing the'upshot price at
the sale the amount of such indebtedness on said day is hereby found and determined by the court to have been the sum
of $80,191.20; fifth, that the last-named sum, with interest thereon from the last-named date, plus $50,000, shall be
the starting point for the .bidding at the sale; sixth, that the
sale heretofore decreed in this cause do take place after six
weeks' notice thereof subsequent to the date of this order shall
have been given by said master, who is hereby directed to
postpone sale until after such notice and then to make said
sale; seventh, all questions of any of the parties with respect
to their dealings with the indebtedness of said company or
any part thereof are hereby expressly reserved."
The contention of the appellees is, that the purpose of requiring an ascertainment of the debts prior to the sale was the
fixing of an upset price, in order that, if. no bid be made in
. xcess of $50,000 above the amount of the debts of said company, the arrangement made in 1884: by the majority of the
stockholders for the transfer of the property to the new company should be carried into effect, and that it was not contemplated that the sale should be absolutely postponed until
after a final judicial determination of the amount of the several claims against the corporation-a matter which, by reason of possible appeals from the circuit to this court, might
delay the sale for many years. They further insist that the
conduct of the appellant showed a purpose to promote delay,
and, therefore, that, even if a strict cofnstruction sustained appellant's claim, the court was justified in modifying the mere
order of procedure. They urge, that though all debts due at
the time of the commencement of the suit, and when the life
of the corporation was ended, were paid, the defendant caused
to be presented a series of claims, for services of counsel and

PEWABIC MINING COMPANY v. MASON.
Opinion of the Court.

officers of the Pewabic Mining Company, and for money
claimed to have been' loaned to it, and then, on behalf of that
company, filed exceptions to the legality and sufficiency of
these claims, and having thus a form of controversy arranged
before the master, neglected and delayed in the matter of
hearing the same; and in support of this they call attention
to a letter written by the master to the trial court in response
to inquiries as to why the report was delayed.
With respect to this last matter it is sufficient to say that
obviously the defendant was dilatory; and with reference to
the construction of the decree, we think the appellees are
right. It cannot be that the sale was intended to be the last
act of this litigation, and that it mu~t be delayed till every
claim arising since the commencement of the suit had been
passed to final judgment; for as the property remained in the
hands of the appellant, new claims for care and services
might arise as fast as old ones were determined; and, indeed,
there were at the time of the sale no debts save those arising
since the commencement of the suit. The purpose of the decree was a sale, provided such sale would produce more than
the plan proposed by the majority of the stockholders; and it
was enough, the debts due at the time having all been paid,
that a mere statement of the amount of the claims be presented, and upon that the upset price be fixed. It will also
be noticed that the court for the purposes of the sale foiund
and determined the amount of the indebtedness, and that
ample provision was .made in the orders for the rights of all
creditors, and the collection of all debts, and a fund was received from the sale large enough to satisfy all possible claims
- $710,000, instead of the $50,000 named in the resolution of
the company in March, 1884. We think, therefore, this contention of the appellant must fail.
A second contention is, that the sale was made to complainants without leave given by the court to them to bid.
But no leave was necessary. The complainants were not the
vendors.
The English practice does not obtain in this
country. A sale made by a special master under the directions of a court of chancery is not a sale made by either of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the parties to a litigation or under his direction. The master
is a representative of the court, as a mixshal or sheriff is in
an action at law. H is not under the control of either party;
he is not the agent of either to make the sale. At such public
judicial sale, either party as a rule may bid. Richards v.
Holmes, 18 How. 143; Smith v. Black, 115 U. S. 308; Allen
v. Gillette, 127 U. S. 589; Smith v. Arnold, 5 Mason, 414,
420. In that case Judge Story said: "In sales directed by
the court of chancery, the whole business is transacted by a
public officer, under the guidance and superintendence of the
court itself. Even after the sale is made, it is not final until
a report is made to the court and it is ipproved and confirmed."
In Blossom v. Railroad Comnpany, 3 Wall. 196, 208, this
court said: "Officers appointed under such decrees, and
directed to make such sales, have the power to accomplish the
object; but they are usually invested with a reasonable discretion as to the manner of its exercise, which they are not at.
liberty to overlook or disregard. Acting under the decree,
they have duties to perform to the complainant, to the vendor
and purchaser, and to the court, and they are bound to exercise their best judgment in the performance of all those duties.
Such an officer, in acting under such a decree, if directed to
sell the property, should adopt all necessary and proper means
to fulfil the directions; but he should, at the same time, never
lose sight of the fact that, unless he is restricted by the terms
of the decree, the time and manner of effecting the sale are,
in the first instance, vested in his sound discretion. Usual
practice undoubtedly is, that the officer in selling the property
acts under the advice of the solicitor of the complainant; but
it cannot be admitted that his advice is, under all circumstances, obligatory upon the officer."
Nor is this a case where the complainants stood in any such
fiduciary relations as forbade them to purchase or prevented
even their acting for others in bidding. They had litigated
with the defendant for years in establishing the right to have
that property sold; and when finally they had succeeded in
getting a decree that it be sold, they did not then assume a

PEWABIC MINING COMPANY v.

ASON.

Opinion of the Court.

duty to the defendant and become charged with the care of
its interests, or become incapacitated from bidding freely for
themselves or for others. None of those matters of a fiduciary
character, which sometimes enter into and avoid sales, existed
in this case.
Another matter complained of -is that the sale was prematurely confirmed. It took place on the 24th of January, 1891,
and the report of sale was filed February 4. On the 7th of
February an order nisi was entered, that, unless cause to the
contrary was shown within eight days, the sale would be confirmed. On February 13 reasons why the sale should not be
confirmed were filed by the defendant, and on the same day
exceptions to the report of sale. On the 2d day of March,
upon notice, the objections and exceptions of the defendant
were heard by the court and overruled, and the sale confirmed.
In support of this complaint reliance is placed on general
equity rule number 83: "The master, as soon as his report is
ready, shall return the same into the clerk's office, and the
day of the return shall be entered by the clerk in the order
book. The parties shall have one month from the time of
filing the report to file exceptions thereto, and, if no exceptions are within that period filed by either party, the report
shall stand confirmed on the~next rule day after the month is
expired." It i. worthy of note, however, that exceptions
were filed, were heard and determined by the court, and no
objecti6n was mad: by the appellant to the time of the hearing, or any suggestion of a right to longer time in which to
file exceptions. It would seem that if there were error in
this respect, the appellant was not in a position to avail itself
thereof. But there was no error. Rule 83 has no reference
to a report by a master of a mere ministerial matter like a
sale, but only to his report upon matters heard and determined
by him. In lfc!fic e v. Perin,18,How. 501, 510, it was observed: "In Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359, this court decided
that no objections to a master's report can be made which
were not taken before the master; the object being ;to save
time, and to give him an opportunity to correct his errors and
reconsider his opinion." But surely in the matter of a sale

OCTOBER TERI, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

there is no opportunity for objections before the master, or
any correction by him of his errors or any reconsideration of
his opinion. The course pursued in this case in reference to
the confirmation was the correct practice; an order nisi followed if no objections'were taken in time by an order of confirmation. In 2 Daniell's Chancery Pleading and Practice,
page 1274, 4th Am. ed., the author says: "After the report
has been fied, and an office copy taken by the purchaser, he
must, at his own expense, apply to the court by motion, that
the purchase may be confirmed. *This motion requires no
previous notice, and the order made upon it will be that the
purchase may be confirmed nisi; i.e. unless cause is shown
against it within eight dys after service of the order. The
purchaser must, at his own expense, procure an office copy of
this order from the registrar, and he may serve it on the solicitors for all the parties in the cause. If no cause is shown
within the eight days, the purchaser must, at his own expense,
apply to the iourt to confirm the order absolutely, which will
be ordered of course, on the production of an affidavit of the
service of the order nisi, and a certificate of no cause having been shown." And, again, on page 1305, in which hQ
Ithus notes the reason of the rule in respect to a report of sale:
-"-With. respect to which it is to be observed, that the object
of. requiring this report to be confirmed is not to enable the
parties to bring the decision of the master under the review
of the court, but to afford time between the service of the
order nisi and the absolute confirmation of the report, to
others to come in and open the bidding, so as to s~cure the
sale of the estate to the best possible advantage." And in 8
American and English Encyclopedia of Law, p. 254, the
practice is thus stated: "The master or commissioner making
the sale should report hig action to the court, to the end. that
the sale may be confirmed. A motion to confirm the sale,
with notice to the parties adversely interested to the confirmation, should be made. Confirmation nisi will be ordered, to
become absolute within a designated time, unless cause is
shown against it. If cause is not shown it stands confirmed."
See also .Yayhew v. West lirginiac Oil Co., 24 Fed. Rep. 205,

PEWABIC

EINING COMPANY v. MASON.

365

Opinioir of the Court.

215, and as to the practice in the state courts of Michigan,
Jennison's Ch.Pr. p. 157, Rule '79. We think, therefore, that
this objection also must be overruled.
The. remaining objections made by the appellant can be
more conveniently considered in connection with the appeal
of Alfred A. Marcus. The first appearance of Marcus in this
litigation was in this wise: The sale was made on the 24th of
January, and at the village of Houghton, county of Houghton, and State of Michigan. The 24th was Saturday, and
late in the evening of January 23 the master received this
dispatch:
"BosToN, MAss., Janvary 23, 1891.
"To PT a Wmrr, special master:
"Please postpone sale of Pewabic mine; just found out
the sale on our Jewish Sabbath; never notified of sale until
to-day.- We hold nearly three thousand shares. Our Jewish
friends in London will buy the mine. There are other Jewish buyers who will not attend sale on Saturday; will most
cheerfully pay all expenses for postponement; if not, please
announce at sale ' we will protest against this legality.'
"A.LFRED

A.

M.Axcus."

On Monday, the 26th, he received the fA tlowing:
.BosTox, M[Ass., Januwlay 26, 1891.
"To P:Tr WiaiTE, special master:
"You ignored my dispatch; sold the Pewabic mine. I
protest against the sale, as you were bound to do all to get
the highest price. I claim the right now to bid seven hundred twenty-one thousand dollars cash, being twenty thousand dollars more than bid at the illegal sale. I shall claim
the mine, being the highest bidder, and protest against any
transfer being made to any one except myself, and shall hold
you personally responsible.
"
A. M

°In his report of sale he gave copies of these dispatches,
simply adding that the sender of the dispatches was wholly

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court..

unknown to him, and that he paid no attention whatever
to them. On the 3d day of March., the day after the sale
had been confirmed, and more than five weeks after the sale
had been made, Marcus fied a petition for leave to intervene,.
in which he alleged that "he is the owner of 3017 shares of
the capital stock of the Pewabic Mining Company; that he,
for himself and other parties, whose names he is willing to
disclose, was desirous and fully intended to be present or
represented at the sale of the property of the said Pewabic,
Mining Company by the special master duly appointed by
this honorable court in the above-entitled cause; that he was
ready to an.d would have bid at said sale and paid' a large
amount of money for the property of said company advertised
for sale by said special master; that on January 23; 1891,
that being the day before the sale of said property took place,
your petitioner discovered for the first time that the sale was
advertised-for Saturday, January 24:; that thereupon and immediately your petitioner, using all haste and dispatch possible, sent by telegraph a message to the said special master,
a copy whereof is hereto annexed, marked A, asling to have
the sale of said property postponed, at his own expense, for
the reason that he was never notified of the sale until said
date, and that said sale was advertised to take place on the
seventh day of the week, which is the Sabbath of your petitioner, and upon which day he is forbidden by his creed to do
any business." He further alleged that the master ignored
the dispatch and sold th6-property for an inadequate sum,
and for much less than it was worth; that his offer on January 26 was bonafld; that he was willing and ready to pay
all the expenses of a resale; -and that he would start with a
bid not less than $800,000,'afterwards by amendment raised
to $900,000, and would give a bond with satisfactory sureties
for his good faith and ability to carry out his offer. On the
presentation of this petition the parties were ordered to show
cause why it. should not be granted. It is a singular fact
,that his first appearance in the case was the day before the
sale, and his first appearnce in court the day after the
confirmation. If it had'all 'been planned, he could not have

PEWABIC MINING "COMPANY v. MASON.

367

Opinion of the Court.

been more opportunely ignorafit before and more accurately
late after. To this order to showcause the parties appeared,
testimony was taken, and a hearing had. It is worthy of
note that, outside of the petition of Marcus, there is no evidence of his ownership of stock, and nothing in that tending
to show how or when he obtained title to that which he
claimed to own; neither is there anything to show what
steps he had taken, prior to the sale, to inform himself of
what was going on in the affairs of the company. It would
seem from the multitude of judgments and attachments
against him appearing on the records of the courts in Boston,,
that he was of no financial responsibility. On the other
hand, it is also true that the affidavits of several responsible
parties were presented, showing that Marcus was a man of
large transactions; that he was an orthodox Jew, who did no
business on Saturday; and that the parties named were
willing to give the proffered bond. if a resale were ordered.
It would not be a strained inference from the testimony that
Marcus was acting for others, and was really put forward
with the idea of introducing a new factor into the litigation.
But we deem it unnecessary to inquire into the real character
of this intervention. It is enough that it comes too late.
Surely no one would suppose that an officer having charge of
the sale of property of such value, a sale made at the end of
prolonged litigation, should at the last moment, in response
to a dispatch from a stranger, postpone .the sale. The master's action was unquestionably proper, and if the party desired the intervention of the court, his duty was to apply at
once and not wait until after confirmation; for then the
rights of the purchaser are vested, and something more than
mere inadequacy of price must appear before the sale can be
disturbed. Indeed, even before confirmation the sale would
not be set aside for mere inadequacy, unless so great as to
shock the conscience.
See Graf'dm v. Burgess, 111 1U. S.
180, 191, where the matter is discussed at some length by
Mr. Justice Bradley. As the price bid by the appellees, and
-at
which the property was struck- off to them, was about
$580,000 in excess of the upset price, it is hardly necessary
to say that there is no shocking inadequacy of price.

