ST. JOSEPH &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPIREYS.

105

Statement of the Case.

upon this appeal. The theory of the bill and the action of
the court and its officers left all the creditors with their rights
existing as they existed before the appointment was made;
and we find no legal or equitable grounds upon which -the
prior liens of the mortgagees can be displaced.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing these petitions
was right, and it is
.A/]irmed.

ST. JOSEPH AND ST. LOUIS RAILROAD CO-MPANY v. HUMPHREYS.
APPEAL FROM THE. CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 287. Argued and submitted April 12,1892. -Decided

April 25, 1892.

Following Quincy, Missouri & Pacific Bailroad Co. v. Humphreys, ante, 82,
it is, with regard to the leise of the St. Joseph and St. Louis Railroad
Company by the Wabash Company, now Held,
(1) That, the circumstances in the latter case being similar to those in
the former, the receivers were entitled to a reasonable time to
ascertain the situation of the leased railroad before they could be
held to have assumed the lease;
(2) That the time taken by them in deciding not to assume it was a
reasonable time;
(3) That the course pursued by the court below towards the various
independent roads which made up the Wabash system was equitable and just and will not be disturbed in this case.

THE court stated the case as follows:
June 1, 18'74, the St. Joseph and St. Louis Railroad Company leased its road to the St. Louis, Kansas City and Northern Railroad Company for the full term of ninety-nine years.
The lessee agreed to pay the lessor on the first days of March
and September in each year, as a rental, thirty per cent of the
gross earnings of said line, and it also agreed that such percentage should not be in any one year less than $20,000 ; and
agreed to pay all taxes, and put the road in good running

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

order and keep it in good condition during the whole of said
'term. The lease also contained the following provision:
"But in case default shall be made by the party of the
second part in the payment of the rents herein reserved and
the same or any part thereof shall -remain unpaid for the space
of thirty days from and after the day when the same shall
become due and payable, or. if said party of the second part
shall fail to comply with its covenants to pay taxes aforesaid
dr in all things keep and observe all and every the' covenants,
stipulations, and agreements herein contained and on its part
to be observed and kept, then it shall be lawful for the said
party of the first part to enter upon and take possession of all
the froperty hereby leased, together with all the improvements thereon constructed, and to have again, repossess and
enjoy the same as in the first instance, and upon such default
in the payments of rent or taxes or the breach of any such
covenants as aforesaid this lease shall cease, terminate, and be
forfeited, at the option of the party of the first part."
The St. Louis Company took possession of the leased line
and operated it until November, 1879, at which time that
company consolidated with the Wabash Railway Company,
the consolidated company taking the name of the Wabash,
St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company. On. the first of
June, 1880, the Wabash Company dxecuted to the ,Central
Trust Company of New- York and James Cheney a mortgage
on its entire system to secure what were known as its general
mortgage bQnds, of which seventeen millions of dollars were
issued, and subsequently a mortgage to the Iron Mountain
Company to indemnify that company for certain advances;
and also a collateral trust mortgage. On May 27, 1884, the
Wabash Company filed in the Circuit Court of the United
States !or the Eastern District of Missouri its bill of complaint, which has already been sufficiently
forth in the
preceding case, No. 223, Quincy &c. Railroad v. Humphreys,
ante, 82, and upon the filing of which receivers were appointed as therein detailed.
On June 15, 1884, the Wabash Company filed by leave of
court an amended bill of complaint, setting forth with greater
.set

ST. JOSEPH &c. RAILROAD CO. v. IHUMPIIREYS.

10T

Statement of the Case.

particularity the various lines of railway, belonging to its
system; the liens and incumbranceg thereon; and the financial
condition of the company; and stating the lease between the
St. Joseph Company and the St. Louis, Kansas City and
Northern Railway Company; and the consolidation between
the latter company and the Wabash Company.
On June 26, 1884, the receivers asked instructions from the
court, but the St. Joseph Company is not mentioned in their
petition of that date, nor in the master's report thereon. The
petition states, however, that the Wabash Railway Company
and the St. Louis, Kansas City and Northern were possessed
of certain valuable lines 'of railroad, which were subject to
mortgages and deeds of trust, and gives a list of them, not
including the St. Joseph, and after excluding certain lines or
divisions whose earnings had not theretofore been sufficient to
Ipay operating expenses, cost of maintenance and interest,
says that from the incoming rents and profits of the property
now in their possession under the court's former order they
believe they can, until otherwise directed, pay the expenses,
cost and interest/ on bonds or other obligations secured by
mortgages or deeds of trus on the lines or divisions that were
owned or possessed either by the Wabash or by the St. Louis,
Kansas City and Northern before their consolidation, which
lines they thought would 6ontinue to :yield sufficient to make
such payments.
The order of appointment directed, among other things, that
the receivers should pay rental on all leased lines, "out of the
income that shall come into tieir hands from the operation of
said railroad or-otherwise," and "keep such ccounts as may
be necessary to-show the source from which all such income
and revenues shall be derived, with'reference to the interests
of all parties herein- and the eipenditures by them made."
By its confirmation of the master's report June 28, 1884, the
court ordered- the-receivers to keep the accounts of the earnings and incomes from, as well as the accounts of, all the
operating expenses, cost of maintenance and taxes of certain
enumerated lines, not including the St. :Joseph Company,
separately- and report quarterly in respect thereto. !)n Sep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

tember 20, 1884, the court announced, upon an application for
instructions with respect to payment of interest on that
branch line of the Wabash system known as the Havana
division, that the earnings belonging to other branches in the
consolidated system would not be taken to support concerns
that did not pay running expenses.
N~ovember 25, 1884, the St. Joseph Company filed its intervening petition, asking for the payment to it of rentals claimed
to be due from the receivers, from March 1, 1884, to August
31, 1884, together with a penalty of one-tenth of one per cent
a day as provided by the terms of the lease, and on January
2, 1885, filed its amended intervening petition, setting up the
lease, the general mortgage and the indemnity mortgage, and
charging violations by the Wabash Company of its covenants in respect of payment of taxes, keeping up repairs,
etc., etc.
The petition further averredf the filing of *the bill and the
appointment of the receivers, aild that "said receivers are now
using and operating said road and have recognized and
adopted said lease and have elected to enter thereunder upon
the premises therein demised and to avail themselves of
the powers, privileges, and rights therein conferred on -said
lessee."
Petitioner further stated that on the first day of September,
1884, there was due to it for rent $27,420.9, of which$11,441.14 had accrued during the time the receivers had been
eperating the road; and that the taxes for 1884 were unpaid.
It was alleged upon belief that -its road was "absolutely necessary to the proper and profitable operation of the said
Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway," and that it was." a
most valuable feeder, to the main line of the Wabash Company."
And, after various other averments, petitioner prayed that
t, ?-courf direct the receivers to pay the rent then accrued and
unpaid, forthwith, together with the penalty, and the taxes
for 1884; and that they immediately proceed to put the leased
property in thorough repair; and for general relief.
On the 11th of February, 1885, the receivers filed a demur-

ST. JOSEPH &c. RAILROAD CO. v. IIUMPHREYS. 10
Statement of the Case.

rer and amended answer to the intervening petition, and, the
demurrer being overruled, further answered February 21,
denying that they had recognized or adopted the lease or
elected to.enter thereunder upon the demised property. They
denied that the St. Joseph road was in anywise necessary to
the profitable operation of the Wabash railway, or was a vqluable feeder to its main line.. They asserted that from Mlay 29,
1884, to November 30, 1884, inclusive, the deficit and loss
occasioned by the operation of the St. Joseph road amounted
to $51,190.09, and averred that it would be manifestly unjust
and inequitable to require them to take the earnings and
profits of other branches of the system and pay the same in
discharge of the rents accruing to petitioner. They further
alleged that the net benefit from the business derived from
petitioner's road accruing to the other lines operated by the
i eceivers was far less than the outlay, and prayed the advice
of the court whether they should -any longer continue in the
occupation and operation of the road or adopt the lease or
deliver the road over to.the petitioner, and, in the event that
the petitioner should refuse to receive it, whether they should
abandon the road. On March 20, 1885, the receivers applied
to the court for instructions with respect to the cancellation of
the St. Joseph lease, and on that day the receivers filed a report
which showed that for the period between May 29 and November 30, 1884, the expenses of the line, not including any charge
for rental, had exceeded its earnings $52,18.83, and they gave
notice to the St. Joseph road that on April 13, 1885, they
would apply to the court for instructions concerning the cancellation of the lease and the surrender of the leased property.
On April 16, 1885, the court delivered the opinion which it
directed to, stand as an order, which has been set forth'and
referred to in the preceding case, No. 223. On April 27, 1885, :
the master to whom the petition of the St. Joseph Company
had been referred reported that he found from the evidence that the operation. of the St. Joseph road had been a
burden to the rest of the property in charge of the receivers
since their appointment, without reference to the rental
'charged, and that in all reasonable probability itwould coa

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case'.

tinue to be a burden if operated as theretofore for an indefinite period; that the road owned no rolling stock at the date
of the lease; and that the court had not adopted the lease in
its entirety, and was not bound to continue to operate the
road and ,pay the rental. Exceptions having been filed, the
master modified his report by adding thereto, as'findings of
fact: That the Wabash Company had, prior to the time the
receivers took possession of it, failed and neglected to keep
the St. Joseph road in repair according to the terms of the
lease; that the outlays made by the receivers were extraordinary, and were caused in part by the failure of the lessee to
keep the rda in repair; that extraordinary outlays for many
months and perhaps years would be required from the same
cause; that part of the expenses incurred by the receivers ,was
for repairs and betterments; that the necessity for these arose
from the failure of the lessee to put and keep the road in the
condition in which it -was to be kept by the covenants of the
lease; and there still existed from the same cause a necessity
for further repairs and betterments. ie further found that
the gross earnings of petitioner's road had been decreased by
reason of the failure of the lessee to keep and carry out the
covenants; but that the evidenc did not satisfy him that a
compliance with the terms of the lease by the lessee and its
successors, or the recgivers, would at any time since the date
of the lease have resulted in any profit from the operation of
the road. And further, that from May 29, 1884, to January
31, 1885, the operating expenses of the road; without reference
to the rental charges, were $177,612.01; that the gross earnings for the same period were $116,851.10; that from the evidence before him he was unable to say that the probable necessary expenses for operating the road and affording'the same
facilities for business would in the future be less than they
were during the period named for the same months in the
year; that the petitioner's road had been of no benefit to the
entire system in the hands of the receivers; that the profits
on theecarriage of goods delivered to the main line by the
petitioner's road had not equalled the losses incurred by
the receivers in operating that road; and that the road was

ST. JOSEPH &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPHREYS. 111
Statement of the Case.

neither necessary nor valuable to the Wabash system as a
feeder.
A supplemental intervening petition was filed July 1, 1885,
and the master made an additional report. From the evidence
he found that for the six months ending March 1, 1885, the
operating expenses of the road exceeded its gross earnings by,
more than $42,000; and that thd gross earnings of the rest of
the system under the charge of the receivers realized from
business originating on petitioner's road for the period above
named were the sum of $94,646.01, of which, after deducting
sixty per cent as the cost to the system of doing the business,
there remained as net earnings realized from the system from
business 'originating on that road, $37,858.40, or between four
and five thousand dollars less than the direct loss incurred by
the receivers in operating petitioner's road for the six months
ending March 1, 1885. The master saw no ground, therefore,
for changing his report by reason of the supplemental petition
and the evidence introduced thereunder further than to add
that there became due petitioner from the Wabash Company,
on account of rental for the six months ending March 1, 1885,
the sum of $28,572.37, which, in his opinion, should be allowed
as a general, unsecured claim against the Wabash Company,
with interest.
It appeared in evidence before the. master that when the
receivers took possession it was impoisible, as the operating
expenses of the;St. Joseph line had never been kept separately,
to form anything like an approximate estimate as to those
expenses; that it was not until the end of August that it
could be known what the earnings of this branch were in
May; that, shortly after the first month's earnings and operating expenses were arrived at, parties connected with the St.
Joseph road were notified that it was doubtful whether the.
road was making its operating expenses, and when the results
of another month were arrived at, official notice was given
that the rental would not be paid; and that this was in
October, 1884. Exceptions were duly filed to this report.
April .9, 1886, the St. Joseph Company applied to the court
for the possession of its road, and the court, at its instance,

112"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

thereupon made an order terminating the lease, and direcIlng
the receivers to surrender the road to that company, which
order was complied with April 24, 1886.
The trustees in the general mortgage filed their cross-bill in
the cause June 7, 1884, and, October 14, 1884, an amended

cross-bill, praying for a foreclosure, and in January, 1885, an
original bill in the state court, in which they prayed for substantially the same relief as in the cross-bills, which bill was
removed -into the Circuit Court and consolidated with the
original suit. On April 16, 1885, the trustees moved for the
appointment of receivers under the 'cross-bill, which application was denied. January' 9, 1886, a decree of fQreclosure
and sale was entered, aind the property covered by the decree
was sold April 26, 1886, and .the sale confirmed June 15.
May 10, 1886, petitioner filed a second supplemental intervening petition, and in August and September, 1886, an application and amended application for payment of rentals down to
April 24,. 1886, out of the proceeds of the foreclosure sale.
The amended -application declared "that the said claim of
your petitioner for the rent found by the master to be due to
it under said lease constitutes, and in equity ought to constitute, a demand and lien against the proceeds, of the sale of
said Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway Company under
foreclosure; 'and, furthermore, that said claim is a lien prior
in equity to any claim or lien of the complainants in this case
or of any bondholders or mortgagees or other lessors or
creditors of any kind or nature whatsoever." The receivers
answered this second supplemental petition as follows:
"That it is not true that they, as receivers of the-prbperty
of the Wabash, St-. Louis and Pacific Railway Company, by
any act of theirs or any order of the court by which they were
appointed, adopted in wh616 or in part the covenants and obligations of the lease made by the said St. Joseph and St. Louis
Railroad Company to the St. Louis, Kansas City and Northern
Railway Company on or about the first day of June, 1874.
."
These receivers, further.answering, say that they did, pursuant to the order of this honorable court in that behalf duly
entered, take charge of and operate the said St. Joseph and St.

ST. JOSEPH &c. RAILROD CO. v. 'HUMPHREYS.

113

Opinion of the Court.

Louis Railroad from and after the 29th day of May, 1884, until
the 24th day of April, 1886, for the purpose of preserving said,
property and preventing a forfeiture of the charter thereof.
"Said receivers aver that at all times after they took charge
of and commenced operating said St. Joseph and St. Louis
Railroad they were compelled to expend large sums of money
in the maintenance and operation thereof in excess of the earnings received therefrom.
"Said receivers,, further answering, say that the said St.
Joseph and St. Louis Railroad Coifipany might at any time
after the said property had been placed in their charge for the
purposes aforesaid have obtained the possession thereof."
The preferred debt of the Wabash Company when the receivers were appointed was shown to have been $4,417,491;
and the net earnings of the system from *thatdate to April 2 ,
1886, to have been $2,819,131.40, leaving $1,598,359.60 outstanding. The master again reported a large deficit April 24,
1886, found the rentals due, and recommended their allowaance
as general, unsecured claims, with interest. The petitions, applications, reports and exceptions were hheard, the exceptions
overruled, and, the petitions dismissed, a'na thepetitioners appealed to this court.
Mr. Everett if. Pattisonfor appellant.
-M,. The1s H. Blodgett and Mr. Thomas IT Hubbard filed
briefs for the appellees, and were present at the argument;
but the court declined to hear them.
_. CHiEF
court.

JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

We have already seen that the theory 'of, this bill was that.
an insolvent railroad corporation may in the public interest,
and for the benefit of all its various creditors, surrender its
property to a court of equity, to be preserved and kept in
operation until it can be disposed of according to the several
private .rights concerned. Under such circumstances, before
receivers can be held to have adopted outstinding leases
VOL. CXLV-8

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

reasonable time is required to ascertain the situation, in order
that the court may determine intelligently the proper course
to be pursued. In this case as to many of the lines involved,
it was presently known that they were not self-supporting and
that fact was brought to the attention of the court, which announced that such roads could not share in the earnings of
those which had a surplus, but that they might apply for possession. But as to the St. Joseph road, a somewhat longer
time was necessarily taken to arrive at results in that regard.
The court, however, from the first had permitted no doubt to
be entertained as to its p&sition in the premises. The order
of appointment directed payment out of income only and
required accounts to be kept of the source of income with reference to expenditure. The receivers, after ascertaining the earnings, expenses and cost of running the St. Joseph road, so as
to be enabled to form a sufficiently correct judgment upon the
matter, gave that company official notice that rental would
not be paid. A loss ias incurred by the operation of the road
from Mav 29 to Novenber 30, 1884, of more than $50,000.
.The master found that its operation was a burden to the rest
of the property; that its expenses exceeded its earnings; that
it was of no 5enefit to the system, and neither n.ecessary nor
valuable to it as a feeder; that the deficit June 30, 1885, was
l$71,207.36; and that the deficit continued until the road was
surrendered by the receivers. This being so, the court was not
bound to direct the receivers to adopt the lease and inflict a
loss on the other roads, out of whose money -or property alone
these rentals could be paid.
We think the notice given by the receivers that they could
not pay, if any notice were required, was given within a
reasonable time; and that the St. Joseph Company has little
cause to complain of any action taken in the premises. The
Wabash Company was insolvent, and the St. Joseph could not
get its rental because of that insolvency, but we are unable to
perceive why that business loss should be made good to that
company out of property in which others had superior rights.
This is what in different forms constitutes petitioner's claim,
namely, that either upon the ground of an election to adopt;

ST. JOSEPH &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPHREYS.

115

Opinion of the Court.

or of equitable lien; or that the rentals were part of the receiver's expenses; petitioner should be given a preference upon
the corpus of the property.
We are of opinion in this case, as in No. 223, (Quincy &c.
Railroad Co. v. Humphreys, ante, 82,) that these receivers
did not become bound upon this lease, by an election or because of any act of their own or of any order of court. We
find here as there no reason to doubt that if petitioner had
applied for the possession of this property earlier than it did,
it would have obtained it. We do not agree to the view that
the St. Joseph Company could lie idly by while the Wabash
system was in the throes of dissolution, utterly insolvent and
hopeless of recovery, and say that its inactivity was in reliance
on an expectation held out by the receivers that the rental
would be paid no matter what became of the rights. bf other
parties. What fund was there, what assets were there, from
which, this rental could be paid? There was' a preferential.
debt of more than four and a half millions, and at the time
the St. Joseph Company retook its road the entire net earnings of the whole Wabash system,-f-rom May 29, 1884, to
April 24, 1886, had not sufficed to extinguish that indebtedness by a million and a half, while the mortgaged property
brought far less than the incumbrances.
What the court did was to allow lessors and mortgagees to
get what they could out of their own property; and we find
no assent by the mortgagees to the allowance of this claim as
against them. It is true that in the answer of the Central
Trust Company and James Cheney, trustees, to one of the
intervening petitions, it is said that the receivers took possession of the property demised, and that "they have since that
time held, used and operated said road in and by said lease
demised, and under and by virtue thereof," but the action of
the receivers or the orders of the court do not justify the conelusion, as we have said, that the lease was adopted, but the
contrary. It is also true that some days after the receivers
were appointed the Iron Mountain road appeared and assented
to the appointmeft;. but we do not regard that ap materially
affecting the situation.

