TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO.

.

COX.

593

Syllabus.

perceived why this should not have been done, nor, indeed,
why Scalzo .and Randazzo and Di Christina should not have
received the amounts which Oteri conceded belonged to them.

In a further accounting the question of interest on this money;
if it has remained in Oteri's hands, will present itself for
adjustment. Gridley v. Conner, 2 La. Ann. 87.
We are of opinion that the partnership continued until
February 2, 1885, when, it is agreed, complainants filed a bill

for dissolution in the state court, (which we assume has been
disposed of,) and should be dissolved'as of that date; and that

an accounting should be had.
The dec'ee is reversed 'with costs, and the cause remandedfor
furtherproceedingsin eonformity with this
nion.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
COX.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT 'OF THE U'7ITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 327. Argued April 22,1892.-Deeided 7May 16,1892.
The proviso in ยง 6 of the, act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, does
not limit the operation of ยง 3 of that act- as corrected by the act of
August 13, '1888, 25 Stat. 433, 436, c. 866; and a Circuit Court of the
United States may take jurisdiction of an action against a receiver
or manager of property appointed by it, without previous leave being
obtained, although the action was commenced before the enactment of
the statute.
The jurisdiction exists because the suit is one arising under -the Constitution and laws of the United States.
A demurrer to a petition upon the ground that it does not set put a cause
of action withouttaking notice of the fact that the suit is brought in
the wrong district is a waiver of objection on account of the lattei
cause.
The rule that an amended declaration which sets forth a new cause of action
is subject to the operation of a limitation coming into force after the
commencement of the action does not apply to an amendment which seht
forth the same cause of action as that set forth originally.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
A cause of action founded upon a statute of one State, conferring the right
to recover damages for an injury resulting in death, iiay be enforced in
a court of the United States sitting in another State if it is not inconsistent with the statutes or public policy of the State in which the right
of action is sought to be enforced.
This cause of action founded upon the statute of Louisiana, conferring
such right, is enforceable in Texas, notwithstanding the decisions of the
,courts of that State, referred to in the opinion in this case, those cases
being in construction of the statute of Texas on that subject, and not
applicable to the Louisiana"statute.
A case should not be withdrawn from the jury unless the conclusion follows, as matter of law, that no recovery can be had upon any view
which can properly be taken of the facts which the evidence tends to
establish.

Tuis was an action brought by Mrs. Ida May Cox, a citizen
of Texas, in the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Texas, on the 3d of September, 1887, against John
C. Brown and Lionel L. Sheldon, as receivers of the Texas
and Pacific Railway Company, to recover damages for the
death of her husband, Charles Cox, resulting from their negligence while operating that company's road. Judgment was
rendered against Brown and Sheldon as such receivers, and
Sheldoii having resigned as receiver, and his resignation having been accepted by' the court, Brown, as sole receiver, prosecuted this writ of error. While the writ was pending Brown
was discharged as receiver, .and the railway company was
restored to the possession of its property, and this court, in
lNovember, 1889, with the consent of the parties, made an
order substituting the Texas and Pacific Railway Company as
plaintiff in error in lieu of Brown, receiver. This was done
Vpon a stipulation "that the said Texas and, Pacific Railway
Conipany may be substituted as plaintiff in error in the aboveentitled cause now pending undetermined upon w~it of error
in this court; such substitution, however, not to affect any of
the questions or controversies presented\by the record herein,
and the questions and controversies .presented by the record
are to stand for thQ decision of this court the same as if such
substituti n, had noi been made."
The petition stated that thd railway company, its lines running through Texas and Louisiana, and all its properties, were

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. COX.
Statement of the Case.

put in the hauds of receivers, December 16, 1885, by order of
the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana; that
Brown and Sheldon were appointed and qualified at once as
receivers, and had been ever since and were now suc and
that Brown resided in the county of Dallas, Texas, and 8heldon in the State of Louisiana.

That Cox was in their em-

ployment January 6, 1887, as a freight conductor, and received
the injury Which resulted in his death on that day while attempting to make a coupling of cats, because of the defective
condition of the cross-ties and of the road-bed, through the
negligence of the receivers. The injury was alleged to have
been inflicted in the State of Louisiana, and it was claimed
that the plaintiff was entitled to recover under the law of that
State, which was set forth, as well as under that of the State
of Texas, it being' averred that they were substantially the
same. These statutes are given, so far as necessary,, in the
margin.'
1 Texas (2 Sayles's Civ. Stats. 26, 27):

"ART. 2899. An action for actual damages on account of injuries causthe following cases:
ing the death of any person may be brought in
"1. When the death of any person is caused by the negligence or carelessness of the proprietor, owner, charterer or hirer of aiy railroad,
steamboat, stage-coach or other vehicle for the conveyance of goods or
passengers, or by the unfitness, negligence or carelessness of their servants
or agents.
"2. When the death of any person is caused by the wrongful act, negligence, unskilfulness or default of another."
* ART.2903. The action shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of
the surviving husband, wife, children and parents of the person whose
death shall have been so caused, and the amount recovered therein shall
not be liablp for the debts of the deceased.
" ART. 2904. The action may be.brought by all of the parties entitled
thereto, or by any one or more of them for the'benefit of all."
Louisiana (Voorhies's La. Civ. Code, 1875, 427; acts La. 1884, p. 94):
"(ART. 2315. Every act whatever of man that causes damage to another
obliges him by whose fault. it happened to repair it; the right of this
action shall survive in case of death in favor of the surviving minor children
and widow of the deceased, or either of them, and in default of these, in
favor of the surviving father and mother, or either of them, for the space of
ode year from the death. The survivors above mentioned may also recover
the damages sustained by theni by the deathI ofthe parent or child, or husband or wife, as the case may be.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

The petition further stated that Cox left no child or children, nor descendant of a child, nor father nor mother, him surviving, but only the petitioner, his wife and widow. It was
also alleged that the deceased suffered severe mental and
physical pain from the time he was injared until he died.
The defendants demurred, assigning as grounds: That the
petition 41does not show that this court has jurisdiction of the
cause as between the plaintiff and the defendants; it does not
show jurisdiction of the persons;" and that the petition "does
not set out a cause of action, because it shows that Chas. Cox,
the husband of the plaintiff, was killed in Louisiana and not
in the State of Texas;" and also answered, denying the allegations of the petition and charging contributory negligence.
On the 16th of February, 1888, Mkrs. Cox filed an amended
petition, reciting that she, "leave of the court being first had,
files this her amended petition and amending her original
petition." This pleading expanded the allegations in reference
to the appointment of the receivers by the United States Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and stated
the entry and confirmation of the -order of appointment as
receivers, under ancillary proceedings, in the Circuit Court for
the Eastern District of Texas, and averred that the court had
jurisdiction of subject matter and receivers under the laws of
the United States. It was further averred that Cox, in coupling the cars, as it was his duty to do, on account of the
draw-head and coupling-pin not being suitable for the purpose
for which they were to be used, he being ignorant thereof,
and of the defective condition of the tracks, was injured.
The defendant filed a general denial to -the amended petition,
and pleaded thb statute of limitations.
The demurrer to the petition and demurrer or plea to the
amended petition were overruled, and the case came on for
"ART. 2316. Every person is responsible for the damage he occasions
not merely by his act, but by his negligence, his imprudence or his wat of
skill.
"ART. 2317. We are responsible, not only for the damage occasioned
by our own act, but for that which is caused by the act of persons for
whom we are answerable, or of the things which we have in our custody."

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY 00. v. COX.

59[

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

trial before a jury upon the issues joined. Evidence was
adduced on both sides, and it was among other things admitted
that the defendants were appointed receivers of the Texas and
Pacific IRailway Company by the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and with the powers alleged by
plaintiff; and .that an ancillary bill was filed in the Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Texas, by direction, in the
same case, and orders entered giving that court ancillary jurisdiction over the cause.
A verdict was returned for $15,000, and the defendants
moved for a new trial, which, on plaintiff having remitted
the sum of $5000 was overruled, and judgment entered for
$10,000, a certified copy of which was directed to be forwarded to the clerk of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and called to the attention of that court.
A motion'in arrest was also made and deilied.
Fifteen errors were assigned, which question the action of
the court: (1) In maintaining jurisdiction. (2) In disallowing
the plea of the statute of limitations. (3) In holding the
cause of action enforceable in Texas. (4) In refusing to direct
the jury to find for the defendants. (5) In refusing .to giveto the jury on defendants' behalf several specific instructions
requested, not material to be here set forth.
-Mr. John -F.-Dillon(with whom was _Mr. Winslow F.
Pierce on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
I. The court below was without jurisdiction.
Not only did the petition fail to show jurisdiction in the
court below, but the want of jurisdiction appeared affirmatively upon the face of the petition, and the objection was
spebifically pointed out. by defendants' demurrer. The petition shows that the plaintiff and one of the defendants, John
C. .Brown, were both residents of the State of Texas. The
other defendant was a resident of Louisiana.
It therefore appears affirmatively upon the face of the petition that the court below was without jurisdiction, inasmuch

OCTOBER -TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

as the plaintiff and one of the defendants were citizens of the
same State.
If it shall be considered that the allegation in the petition
that the defendant Brown was a resident of the State of
Texas is not equivalent to an allegation that he was a citizen
of that State so as to affirmatively show want of jurisdiction
in this court, then it is enough to say that the record fails to
show affirmatively that there was jurisdiction in the court
below. Ex parte Smitk, 94 U. S. 455; Binham v. Cabot, 3
Dall. 382; Grace v. American CentralIns. Co., 109 U. S. 278;
Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646.
With the record only as a guide we can do little more than
speculate as to the theory or ground upon which the jurisdiction of the court below was claimed or maintained. It is
possible that the assumption may have been indulged that the
receivers should be regarded, in their official capacity, as citizens of Louisiana by reason of the fact that they were appointed by the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting in
the Eastern District of that State. But it is settled that the
personal citizenship of receivers, and other trustees, such as
executors, determines the jurisdiction of the Federal courts
under the acts of Congress. Amory v. Amory, 95 U. S. 186;
Davles V. Lath op, 12 Fed. Rep. 353.
It has been suggested that jurisdiction in the court below
was claimed and maintained upon the sole ground that the
covrt had been invested with ancillary jurisdiction of the
equity, cause in which Brown and Sheldon were appointed
receivers, and that neither diversity of citizenship nor any
other statutory ground of jurisdiction was asserted or relibd
upon by court or counsel.
It is hard to understand what. bearing the pendency of proceedings upon the equity side of the court, which are ancillary
to an equity cause pending in another district, can have upon
the jurisdiction of the court in this action at law. The plaintiff did iot'intervene in the equity cause. She brought a plain
and ordinary action at law. It was begun by independent
service of.personal process, not by intervention in proceedings
in which jurisdiction of subject matter had already been

TEXAS & PACIFIC R AILWAY CO. v. COX.

599

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

acquired. This action was tried by a jury in the usual way
and, we may add, with the usual result. The case is not
entitled in the equity cause. It is not a part, of the record in
that cause. See Palmer v. Scriven, 21 Fed. Rep. 354.
Plaintiff may rely upon ยง 3 of the Judiciary Act approved
March 3, 1887, 25 Stat. 436.
In this connection -we call attention to the fact that the
repealing clause of said act contains this proviso:
"Provided, that this act shall hot affect the jurisdiction
over or disposition of any suit removed from the court of any
State, or suit commenced in any court of the United States,
before the passage hereof, except as otherwise expressly provided in this act."
The receivers were appointed in this case prior to March 3,
1887. If the plaintiff shall claim" any advantage by reason of
the said 3d section of the act of March 3, 1887, above quoted,
our answer is that the receivership suit, being commenced and
pending at the time of the passage of the said act, is expressly
excepted from its provisions.
This point has been so expressly adjudged in the case of this
very receivership by the learned Circuit Court of . the Fifth
Circuit. See .Missouri Pacifgc Railway v. Texas & Paoifo
Railway Co., 41 Fed. Rep. 311.
It seems to be so plain that pending suits are excepted from
the provisions of the act that it would be an attempt to construe a provision too plain for construction to elaborate the
point. The result is that the present case must be determined
wholly irrespective of the third section of the act of March'3,
1887:
. But supposing, for the argument, that we are mistaken on
this point, and that the third section of the act of March 3,
1887, applies to the present suit, then we submit that it is
clear that the permission which that act gives to sue a receiver
without the previous leave of the court in which such receiver
was appointed, cannot confer any right to sue such receiver in
any court which has not by law jurisdiction over the suit, thus
to be brought. Note that while the act of March 3,,1887; provides that such suit may be brought without the previous leave of

OCTOBER TERM, 189.'
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the court, it does not prevent the claimant from asking for such
leave. In the present case no such leave was applied for, nor
was the present action brought with the sanction or under the
direction of the court that appointed the receivers. The present
suit is, therefore, in no sense a proceeding in the equity cause,
or a dependency of or an adjunct to it.
II. The alleged cause of action, founded upon the statute of
Louisiana, was not enforceable in the Federal court in Texas.
The case should have been dismissed on this ground.
The action was founded upon a statute of Louisiana, recited
in the petition, conferring a right of action upon the surviving
relatives therein described, for damages for injuries resulting
in death. The right to maintain such an action in the courts
of a State other than that in which the wrongful act was committed and the statutory remedy conferred, has been a question
upon which the decisions have been numerous and donflicting.
The rule in the several States has never been uniform, but
we think it may be safely said that the general tendency
of decision in the state courts has been adverse to the doctrine
that actions of the character referred to may be maintained in
the courts of a State foreign to that where the wrong occurred
and the statutory remedy existed.
The rule that the courts of Texas will not take jurisdiction
of an action for damages of this character, where the cause
arose in another State and under a foreign statute dissimilar in
terms to the corresponding Texas statute, or where there is no
corresponding Texas statute, has been repeatedly announced
Willis v. -issouri
by the highest state court in Texas.
Pacic .Railway,61 Texas, 432; Texas & .Pacfle Railway
v. Rioharcls, 68 Texas, 375; St. Louis, ron -Hountain &eo.
.Railway v. fcCrmio7, 71 Texas, 661. See also Turner v.
Cross, 18 S.W. Rep. 578; and Texas & Pacie Railway Co.
v. Collins, Opinion of the Supreme Court of Texas, :March 22,
1892.
III. Any cause of action which the.plaintilf may have had
was, in any aspect of the case, barred by.the statute of limitation of bgth the States of Louisiana and Texas.,

TEX AS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. V. COX.

601

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. TF. .Uallett Phillpes for defendant in error.
Mr. CmEF JusT E FULLEB

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Texas and Pacific Railway Company is a corporation
deriving its corporate powers from acts of Congress, and was
held in Pacifo Railroad Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1, to be
entitled, under the act of Mitarch 3, 1875, to have suits brought
against it in the state courts removed to the Circuit Courts of
the United States on the ground that they were suits arising
under the laws of the United States. The reasoning was that
this must be so since the company derived its powers, functions and duties from those acts, and suits against it necessarily
involved the exercise of those powers, functions and duties as
an original ingredient.
These receivers were appointed by the Circuit Court, and
derived their powers from and discharged their duties subject
to its orders. Those orders were entered, and all action of the
court in the premises taken, by virtue of judicial power possessed and exercised under the Constitution and laws of the
United States.
In respect of liability, such as is set up here, the receiver
stands in the place of the corporation. -As observed by Mr.
Justice Brown, delivering the opinion of the court in c_Yulta
v. Lochridge, 141 U. S. 327, 332: "Actions against the receiver
are in law actions against the receivership, or the funds in the
hands of the receiver, and- his contracts, misfeasances, negligences and liabilities are official and not personal, and judgments against him as receiver are payable only from the funds
in his hands."
Hence it has been often decided that the jurisdiction of the
court appointing a receiver is necessarily exclusive, and that
actions at law cannot be prosecuted against him except by
leave of that court. Bartonv. Barbour,104 U. S.126; -Davis
v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203; Thompson v. Scott, 4 Dillon,. 508, 512.
This was the general rule in the absence of statute; but by
the third section of the act of. Congress of March 3, 1887, 24
Stat. 552, c. 373, as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888,
25 Stat. 433, 436, c. 866, it is provided:

OCTOBER TERM,, 1891.
Opinion of the Court. ^

"That every receiver or manager of any property appointed
by any court of the United States may be sued in- respect of
any act or transaction of his in carrying on tle business connected with such property, without the' previous leave of the
court in which such receiver or manager was appointed; but
such suit shall be subject to the general equity jurisdiction of
the court in which such receiver or manager was appointed, so
far as the same shall be necessary to the ends of justice."
And we are of opinion that although the injury was inflicted
January 6, 1887, the suit, which was commenced on the 3d of
September of that year, comes within the section.
MYe1dt v.. ochridge, supra, was an action brought in a
state court July 13, 1887, against the receiver of a railway, to
recover for the death of certain persons, alleged to have been
caused by his negligence in the operation of the road, on January 15, 1887. No leave to sue had been granted by the court
of the appointment of the receiver, but we held that section 3
applied and there was no foundation for the position that the
receiver was not liable to suit without such permission.
Section 6 of the act is as follows:
"That the last paragraph of section five of the act of Congress approved March third, eighteen hundred and seventyfive, entitled ' An act to determine the jurisdiction of Circuit
Courts of the United States and to regulate the removal of
causes from state courts, and for other purposes,' and section
six hundred and forty of the Revised Statutes, and all laws
and parts of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act, be,
and the same are hereby repealed: Provided,That this act
shall not affect the jurisdiction over or disposition of any suit
removed from the court of any State, or suit commenced in
any court of the United States, before the passage hereof
except as otherwise expressly providbd in this act."
It is argued that, under this proviso, the receivership suit
having been commenced before and being pending at the time
of the passage of the act, was excepted from its -provisions,
and that leave to sue was still required. We do not think so.
The proviso was intended to prevent the loss of jurisdiction.
by reason-f the repeal of prior acts and parts of acts, but

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. 'COX.

603

Opinion of the Court.

it does not limit the operation of the express provisions of
section three.
As jurisdiction without leave is maintainable through the
act of Congress, and as the receivers became such by reason
of, -and derived their authority from, and operated the road
in obedience to, the orders of the Circuit Court in the exercise
of its judicial powers, we hold that jurisdiction existed because
the suit was one arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States; and this is in harmony with previous decisions. Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334; Feilman v. Packard,
109 U. S. 421; Bock v. Perkins, 139 U. S. 628. The objections raised in respect of the matter of diverse citizenship
cannot, therefore, be sustained.
It is said further that jurisdiction over the receivers, personally, was lacking, because defendant, Brown resided in the
lNorthern District of Texas and defendant Sheldon was an
inhabitant of Louisiana; and, that under the act of 1887 the
action could not be instituted in a district whereof neither of
the defendants was an inhabitant. If the suit be regarded as
merely ancillary to the receivership" the objection is without
force, but irrespective of that, this immunity is a personal
privilege which may be waived. The defendants not only
demurred but answered, and the second ground of demurrer
was that the petition did not set out a cause of action. Under
such circumstances they could not thereafter challenge the
jurisdiction of the court on the ground that the suit had been
brought in the wrong district. St. Louis &c. .Railwosy Co. v.
.cBride, 14:1 U. S..127; Fitzgerald Construction Co. v. .Fitz.gerald,1371U. S. 98 ; First _fat: Bank v. .Morgan,132 U. S.141.
The statutory limitation in Louisiana and in Texas,- upon
the right of action asserted in this case, was one year, and
that defence was interposed to the amended petition, which
was not fled until that period had elapsed.. It is put, in
argument, upon two grounds: (1) that jurisdiction did not
appear by the original petition; (2) that the amended petition
set up a new cause of action. Assuming that the first ground
is open to consideiation, as brought to our -attention, it is
sufficient to say that, in the light of the observations already

OCTOBER TERIMY1, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

made, the fact that jurisdiction existed was sufficiently. apparent on the first pleading. As to the second ground, it is
true that if the amended petition, which may, perhaps, be
treated as equivalent to a second count in a declaration, had
brought forward a new and independent cause of action, .he
bar might apply to it, Sicard v. Davis, 6 Pet. 124; yet, as
the transaction set forth in both counts was the same, and
the negligence charged in both related to defective conditions
in respect of coupling cars in safety, we are not disposed by
technical construction to hold that the second count alleged
another and different negligence from the first.
Counsel further urge, with much earnestness, that the cause
of action founded upon the statute of Louisiana conferring the
right to recover damages for an injury resulting in death, was
not enforceable in Texas.
The action, being in its nature transitory, might be maintained if the act complained of constituted a tort at common
law, but as a statutory delict, it is contended that it must be
justiciable not only where the act was done, but where redress
is sought. If a tort at common law where suit was brought,
it would be presumed that the common law prevailed where
the occurrence complained of transpired; but if the cause of
action was created by statute, then the law of the forum and
of the wrong must subsiantially concur in order to render
legal redress demandable.
In The Antelope, 10 Wheat. 66, 123, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall stated the international rule, with customary force, that:
"The courts of no country execute the penal laws of another,"
but we have held that that rule cannot be invoked as applicable to a statute of this kind, which. merely authorizes "a
civil action to recover damages for a civil injury." .Dennick v.
Railrorad Company, 103 IT. S. 11. This was a case instituted
in New York to recover damages for injuries received and
resulting in death in New Jersey, and it was decided that a
right arising under or a liability imposed by either the common law or the statute of a State may, where the action is
transitory, be asserted and enforced in any court having jurisdiction of such matters and of the parties.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. COX.

605

Opinion of the Court.

Aind notwithstanding some contrariety of decision upon the
point, the rule thus stated is generally recognized and applied
where the statute of the State in which the cause of action

arose is not in substance inconsistent with the statutes or
public policy of the State in which the right of action is
sought to be enforced.
The statutes of these two States on this subject are not
essentially dissimilar, and it cannot be successfully asserted
that the maintenance of jurisdiction is opposed to a settled
public policy of the State of Texas.
In Villis v. Railroad Company, 61 Texas, 432, it was held
by the Supreme Court of Texas that suit could not be brought
in that State for injuries resulting in death inflicted in the
Indian Territory, where no law existed creating such a right
of action. The opinion goes somewhat further than this in
expression, but in that regard has not been -subsequently
adopted.
In Texas & PaciA Railway v. Richards, 68 Texas, 375, it
was said that while there was some conflict of decision, it
seemed to be generally held that a right given by the statutes
of one State would be recognized and enforced in the courts
of another State, whose laws gave a like right under the same
facts. In St. Louis, _fro fountain &c. Railroad v. .McCormick, 71 Texas, 660, the Supreme Court declined to sustain a
suit in Texas by a widow for damages for the, negligent killing
of her husband in Arkansas,.for the reason that the statutes
of Arkansas were so different from those of Texas in that
regard that jurisdiction ought not to be taken, but the court
indicated that it would be a duty to do so in transitory actions
where the laws of both jurisdictions were similar. The question, however, is one of general law, and we regard it as settled in Dennick v. Railroad Cormany, s'ura.
But it is insisted that the general rule ought not to be
followed in this case because the statute of Texas, giving a
right of action for the inflictibn through negligence of injuries
resulting in, death, does not apply to persons engaged as receivers in the operation of railroads, and reference is made to
Turner v. Cross, decided February 5, 1892, and reported in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

advance of the official series in 18 S. W. Rep. 578, (followed
by Railway Company v. Collins, decided March 22, 1892, and
furnished to us in manuscript,) in which the Supreme Court of
Texas so held upon the ground that a receiver is not a "proprietor, owner, charterer or .hirer" of the railroad he has in
charge, and so not within the terms of the Texas statute.
Without questioning the correctness of this view, still it would
be going much too far to attribute to these decisions the effect
of a determination that an action could not be maintained
against receivers in the enforcement of a cause of action arising in Louisiana, whose statute is not open to such a construction.
We are brought then to consider whether reversible error
intervened in the conduct of the trial. The contention on this
branch of the case is chiefly that the court should have
directed a verdict for the defendants because there was no
evidence of negligence on their part while there was evidence
of contributory negligence on the part of Cox.
The case should not have been withdrawn from the jury
unless the conclusion followed, es matter of law, that no
recovery could be had upon any view which could be properly
taken of the facts the evidence tended to establish. -Dunlap
v. Vortheastern Railroad,130 U. S. 649, 652; XEane v. Nvorthern Central Railway, 128 U. S. 91; Jones v. Bast Tennessee,
Virginia & Georgia Railroad,128 U. S. 443.
We think the evidence given in the record tended to establish that the coupling apparatus and the track were in an
unsafe and dangerous condition; that the ifijury happened in
consequence; and that these defects were such as must have
been known to the defendants under proper inspection, and
unless they were negligently ignorant. No conflict appears
as to the condition of the road-bed in the railroad yard, but
there was testimony on defendants' behalf iidicating that the
coupling apparatus was not substantially defective.
The bill of exceptions does Aiot pu'rport to contain all theevidence, and it would be improper to hold that the court
should have directed a verdict for defendants for want of that
which may have existed.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. COX.

607.

Opinion of the Court.

No exception was taken to the admission or 'exclusion of
evidence, and none to any part of the charge of the court
which is given in full. Among other things, the court instructed the jury:
"If you shall find either that the road-bed was not unsafe
or dangerous, although not of the best character, or that the
coupling-pin used was not unsafe or dangerous, although not
as well adapted for use as a round pin, then you will find for
defendant.
"And, again, if you shall find from the evidence that both
the road-bed and coupling-pin were unsafe and dangerous, yet
if you shall find from the evidence that neither of these causes
resulted in the death of Chas. Cox nor were the proximate
causes producing the injuries whereof he died, then you will
find for the defendant.
"It is incumbent on the plaintiff before she can recover not
only to prove that the defects complained of existed, but also
that they or one of them were the cause of death.
"If the death was the result of accident, misadventure, or
the want of care or prudence on the part of deceased or other
cause not complained of, plaintiff cannot recover.
"You must ascertain the true nature of. the case and the
actual cause of death from the evidence as adduced before
you and render your verdict in accordance therewith."
Twelve specific instructions were asked on behalf of defendants and refused and exceptions taken, but, except as stated,
they are not insisted upon in argument, and we think they
were substantially covered by the charge as given.
Some emphasis is put upon the fact that the car which
inflicted the injury was from another road, but that circtimstance- does not call for special mention in the view we ta.e
of the case, and does not seem to have been relied on in the
court below. The Circuit Court correctly applied well settled
principles in the disposition of the questions of law arising upon
.the trial, and it would subserve'no useful purpose to retraverse,
in exposition of those principles, ground so often covered.
WTashington & Georgetown Railroad v. McDade, 135 U. S.
554; .N'rthern Pacific Railroad v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642;

