156

OCTOBER TERM,, 189i.
Syllabus.

TOPLIFF v: TOPLIFF AND ANOTHER.
TOPLIFF AND ANOTHER v. TOPLIFF.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT. OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Noo. 220, 277.

Argued April 5,1892.-Decided May 2,1892.

TLetters patent No. 108,085, issued October 11, 1870, to John B. Augur for
Ian improvement for gearing in wagons was not anticipated by the invention patented to C. C. Stringfellow and D. W. Surles, by letters patent
No. 31,134, dated January 15, 1861, and are valid, so far as that invention
is concerned.
Tt is not sufficient, in order to constitute an anticipation of a patented invention, that the device relied upon might, by modification, be made to
accqmplish the function performed by that invention, if it were not designed by-its.maker, nor adapted, nor actually used for the performance
of such fuitction.
In view of the extensive use to which the invention secured to-John H.
Topliff and George H. Ely by letters patent No. 122,079 for an improvement in connected carriage springs, reissued March 28, 1876, No. 7017,
the invention secured thereby is held to have patentable novelty, although
the question is by no means free from doubt.
The first reissue of that patent, being to correct '4 palpable and gross mistake, and being made within four months after the date of the original
patent, was within the power of the Commissioner of Patents. The second reissue of that patent is valid, whether it be an enlargement of
the original patent or not.
Miler v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 360, was not-intended to settle a principle that
under no-circumstances would a reissue containing a broader claim than
the original be suppoAed.
The power to reissue a pateft may be exercised when the original patent is
inoperative by reason of the fact that its specification was defective or
insufficient, or the claims were narrower than the actual invention of the
patentee, provided the error has arisen froih inadvertence or mistake, and
the patentee is guilty of no fraud or deception; but such reissues are
subject to the following qualifications:
(1) That it sh41. be for the same invention as the original patent, as such
invention appears from the specification and claims of such
original;
(2) That due diligence must ne exercised in discovering the mistake in
the original patent, and that, if it be sought for the purpose of en:
larging the claim, the lapse of two years will ordinarily, though

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF AND ANOTHER.
Statement of the Case.
not always, be treated-as evidence of an abandonment of the new
matter to the public to the same extent that a failure by the inventor to apply for a patent within two years from the public use or
sale of his invention is regarded by the statute as conclusive evidence of an abandonment of the patent to the public;
(3) That this court will not review the decision of .the Commissioner
upon the question of inadvertence, accident or mistake, unless the
matter is manifest from the record; but that the question whether
the application was made within a reasonable time is, in most, if
not in all such cases, a question of law for the court.
Objections to a master's report should be taken in the court below; and if
not taken there, cannot be taken here for the first time.
The allowance of an increase of damages, under the statute, to the plaintiff
in a suit for the infringement of letters patent rests somewhat in the discretion of the court below, and its finding on this point will not be disturbed unless the evidence clearly demands it.

"THE court stated the case as follows:
This was a bill in equity for the infringement of three patents, namely: (1) Patent No. 108,085, issued October 11, 1870,
to John B. Augur, for an improvement in gearing for wagons.
(2) Patent No. 123,937, issued February 20, 1872, to Cyrus W.
Saladee, for an improvement in carriage-springs and mode of
attachment. (3) Patent No. 122,079, issued December 19,
1871, to John A. Topliff and George H. Ely, for an improvement in connecting carriage-springs , reissued March 28, 1876,
No. 7017.
The patent to Augur consisted in a mode of equalizing the
pressure upon two carriage-springs by "connecting together
by a rigid rod the two pivoted links upon the clips employed
on the hind axle, so that when the weight is upon one spring,
both springs, by reason of the connecting-rod, shall be caused
to work together, thus preventing the roll:" The effect of this
device is such that if a heavy weight is thrown upon one
spring, as for instance by a person getting into a buggy at
one side, the pssure is borne equally by both springs. The
claims alleged to be infringed were the following:
* "1. The herein-described method of equalizing the action of
springs of vehicles and distributing the weight of the load.
"2. The combination of the pivoteGl ;links with a rod con-

OCTOBER TERM , 1891.
Statement of the Case.

neeting the same, the rod compelling both links to move in
unison, as and for the purpose described."
The reissued patent to Topliff and Ely, as stated by the patentees, "relates to side half-elliptic spring vehicles, and has for
its object suspending the front and rear ends of the springs
directly to the rear axle and front bolster of the running gear
by means of two separate connecting-rods, the outer ends of
which have formed upon them, as a part of the same, and at
right angles with the rod, short arms, between which the ends
of the springs, respectively, are secured and operated, the connecting-rod receiving the rear ends of the springs being hinged
to the rear axle, while the rod receiving the front ends of the
springs is, in like manner, connected to the front bolster in
such manner that the vibration of the springs will impart
a corresponding rotation to the connecting-rods front and
back, and so that the depression of either spring will, by the
rotary action imparted to the connecting-rod, compel a corresponding depression of the other, and thus compel both
springs to vibrate together, and move in unison one with
the other, equalizing their action and the weight imposed
upon them, as well as to prevent side motion to the body of
the vehicle."
. There were but two claims to this patent, which read as
follows:
"1. The 'combination of two connecting-rods located at the
front and rear ends of a wagon-body, and arranged to turn in
their bearings, with a pair of half-elliptic springs, whereby the
springs are caused to yield in unison with each other, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"2. The combination of the connecting-rods BE' provided
with arms at their ends, with the half-e]lipti6 springs AAI,
substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
The answer admitted that the defendant had manufactured
and sold connecting-rods for carriages substantially like those
manufactured by the plaintiffs, and claimed the right so to do,
alleging that plaintiffs' patents were both void for want of
novelty; and that the reissued patent of Topliff and Ely was.
not for the same invention as the original; and denied that

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF AND ANOTHER.
Opinion of the Court.

his manufacture infringed in any way upon any right which
plaintiffs had to the invention.
The case was heard in the court below upon pleadings and
proofs, the court holding that the Augur patent and the Topliff and Ely reissue were good and valid; and that the defendant was guilty of infringement. An injunction was allowed
and the case was referred to a master to take an account
of profits and damages. The master reported the sum of
$8480.54 to be due the plaintiffs from the defendant as damages for the infringement, and a final decree was entered for
that amount, from which both parties appealed to this court.
.&r. Henry S. kerman, for Topliff and another.
Mr. F. W Boynton (with whom were .Mr. John C. f-ale.
and .M . -M..D. Ieggett on the brief) for Topliff.
M.

JusTicmE

'1Bowx delivered the opinion of the court.

As the court below failed t6 pass upon the Saladee patent
in its decree, and as neither party has assigned this omission
as error,.it is unnecessary to take it into consideration upon
this appeal. There are really but two questions involved in
this case: (1) the validity of the Augur patent, in view of the
state of the art; (2) the validity of the Topliff and Ely reissue.
(1) In the Augur patent the deice. described consists of a
rod attached to the rear axle of a side-spring buggy or other
vehicle, having two links rigidly attached to the rod, one at
each end thereof, upon which the rear ends o.f such sidesprings are pivoted. The result is that when one spring is
depressed, as by a person 'stepping into the vehicle on one
side, the spring upon the other side is also depressed, througl .
the action of the rod connecting the two, so that the body of
the vehicle is kept approximately upon a level.
The patents to- Stowe of 1868 and to Sexton of 1868 were
also for a method of equalizing the action of side-springs by
so connecting, as stated in the Stowe patent, "the two- sidesprings of a carriage that a weight placed on anylportion of
the carriage will depress each side equally, and prevent the

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

strain to the springs occasioned by the frequent wrenching
they are subjected to in getting in and out of the carriage."
But the 'means for accomplishing this in both cases are so
wholly dissimilar to those described in the patents in suit that
a comparison can hardly be made of them.
Indeed, the patent to Stringfellow and Surles of 1861 approximates so much more nearly -to the patents in suit that it
is the only one worthy of serious consideration. If this patent
does not anticipate the Augur patent, none of the others do;
if it does anticipate it, it is of no consequence whether the
others do or not. -This patent is for "a novel improvement
in hanging carriage-bodies on springs and from C-shaped jacks
or supports, whereby the body is allowed a free and easy
vibration longitudinally, and it is relieved from sudden and
disagreeable jolts and jerks in travelling on rough roads or
from the sudden starting of the horse. The parts are also so
braced and strengthened that all liability to twist the carriagebody is effectively prevented. The invention consists of a
combination of transverse tie-rods with the side-springs, which
are hung by shackle-bars or jointed links from C-shaped supports." The patentee further states: "It will thus be seen
that the springs DD are suspended in such a manner from the
four supports CCIC' that the body of the carriage, which is
mounted on said springs, w-1 be allowed to have a free, swinging motion backwards or forwards, and in consequence of the
springs being hung by the shackle-bars EEEE the springs will
also have an upward movement.
.
.
In uniting the
shackle-bars to the ends of the springs DD and the supports
OCC'C' two tie-bars, GO, with forked ends, one of which is
shown in Fig. 2 of the drawing, are used for the purpose of
bracing the supports CC, and also the ends of the springs DD,
so as to prevent the swaying of the carriage-body from twisting or bending the supports CC' laterally." The claim was
for "the transverse ties GG, arranged and operated substantially as and for the purposes specified."
If there be anything in this patent which anticipates the
connecting-rods of the Augur device it is the transverse tiebars GG,upon which the springs are hung, which the specifi-

TOPLIFF v.- TOPLIFF AND ANOTHER.
Opinion of the Court.

cation states are used for bracing the supports C' and also
the ends of the springs DD, so as to prevent the swaying ofthe
carriage-body from twisting or bending the supports 00' laterally. An inspection of the models of this patent put in evidence
shows at once that the object of these tie-bars is not an equalization of the pressure upon the springs, but -to secure an equality in the backward and forward swinging movement in the
body of the vehicle. Indeed, this was obviously nbcessary, as
the patentee states, to prevent the body of the carriage and
the supports C0' from being twisted, the entire object of the
patent being to secure a free and easy vibration longitudinally.
It is true that one of the models of the patent put in evidence
(Exhibit IM), does, by. its peculiar construction in shortening
the links and s.trengthening and stiffening the entire structure,
show an equalization of the pressure upon the springs, but it
is accomplished by sacrificing the swinging movement backward and forward, which it was the object of the patent Cu
secure. The duplicate of the model from the Patent Office
contains no suggestion of this kind, nor do the other models '
of the same patent offered in evidence. While it is possible
that the Stringfellow and Surles patent might, by'a slight
modification, be made to perform the function of equalizing
the springs which it was the object of the Augur patent to
secure, that was evidently not in the mind of the patentees,
and the patent is inoperative for that purpose. Their device
evidently approached very near the idea of an equalizer; but
this idea did not apparently dawn upon them, nor w~as there
anything in their patent which would have suggested it to a
mechanic of ordinary intelligence, unless he were examining
it for that purpose. It is not sufficient to constitute an anticipation that the device relied upon might, by modification, be
made to accomplish the function performed by the patent in'
question, if it Were not designed by, its maker, nor Adapted,
nor actually used, for the performance of such functions.
(2) The Topliff and Ely patent is claimed to be fully anticipated by the Augur device. In their specification the patentees admit that the connecting-rods placed at right anglg
across the front and rear of the running gear of vehicles, and
voL. cxLv-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

hinged to the front bolster and rear axle, are an old device.
The better to illustrate the distinction between their own
invention and all others pbrtaining to the use of connectingrods, they cite several patents, among which is that of Augur,
of which they state as follows:
"In this patent side-springs are used, the front ends of
which are hinged upon fixed and rigid standards secured upon
the top of the front bolster, and where the front ends of the
spring are firmly held in a central position over said bolster,
while the rear ends are hinged to hinges secured to the outer
ends of a single connecting-rod placed over the top of the reai
axle in such a manner that, as the springs are lengthened by
depression, a corresponding rotation is imparted to the connecting-rod. In this case provision for the lengthening of the
springs when depressed or in motion is only made for the rear
ends of the springs, the front ends being firmly held over the
centre of the bolster; and hence, as the load upon the springs
is increased, and as only their rear ends, in combination with
said links and connecting-rod, are permitted to accommodate
their vibration, the rear end of the body is caused to have a
backward tipping motion -that is, the back end of the body
is thrown lower than the front end, when the springs are depressed to their full capacity -which is an objectionable feature in this device for equalizing the action of springs; besides,
as only the rear ends of the springs are allowed to act,-that
easy and natural motion of the springs which is only had by
allowing both ends to act freely is in a great measure lost.
"The radical difference of our invention from each and all
the cases above cited is, first, in the construction of the connecting-rod," (which is in reality precisely the same as that
employed by Augur;) "and, secondly, in stispending both
ends of* the springs upon separate connecting-rods, and thus
allow both ends of the springs to act freely and in harmony
with their vibrating motion, to which is added the other important advantage, viz.: that arrangement of connecting-rods
admits of their application to side-spring vehicles of the ordinary kind now in use as readily as to those built expressly for
the purpose - an advantage not attained by any other pre-

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF AND ANOTIER.
Opinion of the*Court.

viously known combination of connecting-rods with the springs
or bodies of vehicles."
It is quite evident from an examination of this patent that
"the connecting-rods BB', provided with arms at their ends,"
are precisely the same in structure, design and operation as
"the pivoted links with a rod connecting the same," described
in the second claim of the Augur patent; and that the only
substantial difference in the construction of the two devices is
in the duplication of this rod by applying it to the front bolster
as well as to the rear axle, and thereby enabling it to be applied to side-spring vehicles of the ordinary kind, as readily as
to those built expressly for the purpose. It is true there are
introduced into the claims of the Topliff and Ely patent the
half-elliptic springs AA', which, by nieans of the connectingrods, are caused to yield in unison with each other; but the
same springs are evidently to be read into the Augur patent,
since the whole object of the device, as stated by him, is to
equalize the action of the springs by compelling both links to
move in unison. If this patent differed from the other merely
in duplicating the rod and applying it to the front bolster as
well as to the rear axle, it is conceded that it would not, under
the cases of Dunlar v. .X2yers, 94: U. S. 187, 195, and 8Sawson
v. Grand Street Railroad Co., 107 U. S. 649, 653, involve
invention.
But there is a further distinction between the two devices
which ought not to be overlooked. Under the Augur patent,.
the front ends of. the s.prings are supported upon standards
rising from the bolster, and the rear ends upon the links of the
connecting'rod, rising perp6ndicularly above the rear axle. In
other words, the links are turned upward, instead of down.
This arrangement would evidently be inoperative if the springs
were hung at both ends upon links, so placed, since the body
of the vehicle would fall down at once upon the axles. In the
Topliff and Ely patent, to obviate this, and to enable the device to be applied af both *ends of the springs, the links are
turned horizontally, or somewhat dependent, so that the
springs can rest upon them at both ends, and thus secure a
more perfect equalization. Trifling as this deviation seems to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

be, it renders it possible to adapt the Augur device to any
side-spring wagon of ordinary construction.
While the question of patentable novelty in this device is by
no means free from doubt, we are inclined, in view of the extensive use to which these springs have been put by manufacburers of wagons, t0 resolve that doubt in favor of the paten-.
Lees, and sustain the patent.
(3) With regard to the reissue of this patent, the record
shows that on April '9, 1872, within four months from the date
of the original patent, a reissue was granted, in which the
specification was largely reframed, the drawings changed in
form, though apparently not in substance, but the claim Was
changed only by providing that the connecting-rods should be
"secured direbtly'to thehind axle and front bolster," instead
of "to the front and rear axles," as provided in the claim of
the. original patent. The claim of the original and first reissue
are as follows:
Original.

First Reissue.

"The arms CCC'C' arranged
"The arms CCO'C' arranged
upon separate rock-rods BB' se- upon separate connecting-rods,
cured directly to thefront,and BB'secured directly to the hind
rear axles to cause both ends axle and front bolster, to cause
of each spring to yield simul- both ends of the side-springsto
taneously an'd in unison with yield simultaneously and in unieach other, and"also to be later- son with each other, in the manally braced by said rock-rods, ner shown, and described."
as described."
The original claim was, in the particular above mentioned, a
clear mistake, since affixing the connecting-rod and springs to
the front axle'would render it impossible to be turned, and in
adaition to this, the original drawing shows it affixed to the
bolster. The correction of a mistake so clear, made within so
short time after the issue of the original patent, was undoubtedly within the power of the Commissioner, as defined by
Rev. Stat. section 4916. The lateral bracing by the rock-rods
mentioned in the claim of the original patent was a merely inci-

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF AND ANOTHER.
Opinion of the Court..

dental functioii to the operation of the rock-rod in securing
the axle to the spring, and their omission cannot be considered
an enlargement of the claim.
The second reissue was applied for a little more than a
month after the first was granted, although the patent was
not granted upon this application until March 28, 1876, nearly
four years after the application was filed. No change from
the first reissue was made in the drawings or specification in
this reissue, but the claim was divided and changed so as to.
read as follows:
"1. The combination of two connecting-rods located at the
front and rear ends of a wagon-body, and arranged to turn in
their bearings, with a pair of half-elliptic springs, whereby the
springs are caused to yield in unison witheach other, substantially as and for the purpose set forth.
"2. The combination of the connecting-rods BB' provided
with arms at their ends, with the half-elliptic springs AA',
substantially as and for the purpose set forth."
The first claim of this reissue is not insisted upon in this
cased, so that" the question of its validity need not now be considered. The second claim is to some extent a change of the
claim of the first reissue. It omits the requirement that the
connecting-rod shall be secured directly to the axle and bolster,
so as to cause both ends of the side-springs to yield simultanedusly, and introduces the half-elliptic springs AA' as a new
element of the combination. Whether this be an enlargement
of the original claitn or not, it is for substantially tie same
invention, and in view of the fact that the reissue was applied
for as soon as the mistake was discovered, and before any
rights in favor of third parties could be reasonably expected to
have attached, or had in fact attached, we think this reissue is
not open to the objections which have proved fatal to so many
since the case of Miller v. Brass Company, 104 U. S. 35, was
decidd.
It is a mistake to suppose that that case was intended to
settle the principle that, under no circumstances, would a reissue containing a broader claim than the original be supported.
We have no desire to modify in any respect the views ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

pressed in that and subsequent cases with regard to the validity
of reissues. There is no doubt, as was said by this court in
Powder Company v. Powder Torks, 98 U. S. 126, 137, 138,
that a reissue can only be granted for the sanme invention
which formed the subject of the original patent, of which it
is a reissue, since, as was said by the court in that case, the
express words of the act are "a new patent for the same invention." "The specification may be amended so as to make
it more clear and distinct; the claim may be modified so as to
make it more conformable to the exact rights of the patentee,
but the invention must be the same.

.

.

.

This prohibition

is general, relating to all patents; and by 'new matter' we
suppose to be meant new substantive matter, such as would
have the effect of changing the invention, or of introducing
what might be the subject of another application for a patent.
The danger to be provided against was the temptation to
amend a patent so as to cover improvements which might have
come into use, or might have been invented by others, after
its issue."
In the case of Miller v. Brass Company, 104 U. S. 350,.
351, a reissue with expanded claims was applied for ffteen
years after the original patent was granted. It was held to be
manifest upon the face of the patent that the suggestion of
inadvertence and mistake was a mere pretence, or, if not a
pretence, that the mistake was so obvious -as to be instantly
discernible on the opening of the patent, and the right to
have it corrected was abandoned and lost by unreasonable
delay. "The only mistake suggested," said Mr. Justice
Bradley, "is, that the claim was not as broad as it might havie
been. This mistake, if it was a mistake, was apparent upon
the first inspection of the patent, and if any correction was
desired, it should have been applied for immediately." It
was intimated in that case, p. 352, although the facts did not
call for an adjudication upon the point, that "if two years'
public enjoyment of an invention with the consent and allowance of the inventor is evidence of abandonment and a
bar to an application for a patent, a public disclaimer in the
patent itself should be construed equally favorable to the

TOPLIFF o. TOPLIFF A TD ANOTHER.
Opinion of the Court.

public.. Nothing but a clear mistake or inadvertence, and a
speedy application for its correction, is admissible when it is
sought merely to enlarge the claim." It was further said
that'the section of the Revised Statutes does not in terms
authorize a reissue to enable a patentee to expand his claim,
and that it was natural to conclude that the reissue of a
patent for such purposes was not in the mind of Congress
when it passed the laws in question. "At all events," said
the court, p. 354, "we think it clear that it was not the
special purpose of the legislation on this subject to authorize
the surrender of patents for the purpose of reissuing them
with broader and more comprehensive claims, although, under
the- general terms of the la%, such a reissue may be made
when it clearly appears that an actual mistake has inadvertently been made.

.

.

.

Now, whilst, as before stated, we

do not deny that a claim may be enlarged in a reissued patent,
we are of the opinion that this can only be done when an
actual mistake has occurred; not from a mere error of judgment (for that may be rectified by appeal), but a real bona
fjde mistake, inadvertently committed; such as a Court of
Chancery, in cases within its ordinary jurisdiction, would correct.

.

.

.

The granting of a reissue for such a purpose,

after an unreasonable delay, is clearly an abuse of the power
to grant reissues, and may justly be declared illegal and void."
So, in the case of Johnson v. 1?ailroad, Company, 105 U. S.
539, 54:7, the patent was issued in 1851, and at the expiration
of the original terin of fourteen years an extension of seven
years was granted, and a reissue was applied for after a lapse of
fifteen years, and it was held, upon the authority of Miller v.
Btrass Company, that if the patentee had the right to a reissue
if applied for in reasonable time, he had lost it by his unreasonable delay. Said the court, speaking by Mr. Justice
Woods: "He has rested supinely until the use of the fishplate joint has become universal, and then, after a lapse of
fifteen years, has attempted by a reissue to extend his patent
to cover it. We think it is perfectly clear that the original
patent could not be fairly construed to embrace the device
used by the appellee, which appellants insist is covered by

OCTOBER TEAM, 189.1.
Opinion of the Court.

their reissue. If the reissued patent covers it, it is broader
than the original, and is, therefore, void."i
In the case of .Xahn v. Hfa

ood, 112 U. S. 35t, 358, a

patent reissued nearly four years after the date of the original
patent was held to be invalid as to the new claims, upon the
ground of unreasonable delay in applying for it, the only
object of the reissue being to enlarge the claims. Nothing
was changed, but to multiply the claims and make them
broader and this was done, not for the benefit of the original
patentee, but for that of his assignees. "It was not intended
then," said Mr. Justice Bradley, referring to .Ailler v. Brs
Co., "and is not now, to question the conclusiveness, in suits
for infringements of patents, of the decisions of the Commissioner. on questions of fact -necessary to be decided before.
issuing such patents, except as the statute gives specific defences in that regard." He repeated substantially what had
been said in .Miller v.'Bpa&s Co., that "a patent for an invention cannot lawfully be reissued for the mere purpose of
enlarging the claim,- unless there has been a clear mistake
inadvertently committed in th6 wording of the claim, and the
application for a reissue is made within a reasonably short
period after the original patent was granted. The granting
of such reissues after the'lapse of long periods of time is an
abuse of power, and is founded on a total misconception of
the law." It was held that while lapses of time might be of
small consequence where the original claim was too broad,
and the patentee sought to restrict it, there were substantial
reasons why the claim could not be enlarged unless the
patentee used due diligence to ascertain his mistake. "The
rights of the public here intervene, which are totally inconsistent with such tardy reissues; and the great opportunity. and
temptation to commit fraud after any considerable lapse df
time, when the circumstances of the original application have
passed out of mind, and the monopoly has proved to be of
great value, make it imperative on the courts, as a dictate of
justice and public policy, to hold the patentees strictly to the
rule of reasonable diligence in making applications for this
kind of reissues." It was further held that while it was for

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF AND ANOTHER.

169

Opinion of the Court.

the Commissioner of Patents 'to determine the question of
inadvertence, accident or mistake, the question of reasonable
time was one which .the court could determine as one of law,
by comparing the patent itself with the 6riginal patent and,'
if necessary, with the record of its inception.
In speaking of the case of Mfiller v. Brass Co., Mr. Justice
Bradley observed: "We suggested that a delay of two years
in- applying for such correction should be construed equally,
favorable to the public. But. this was a mere suggestion by
the way, and was not intended to lay down any general rule.
Nevertheless, the analogy is an apposite one, and we think
that excuse for any longer delay than that should be made.m--ifestby the special circumstanices of the case."
In the large number" of cases which have come up to this
court since that of Mahn v. Harwovd was decided, in which
reissues have been held to be invalid, it will be found that the
opinion of the court was put upon the ground, either that the
patentee had been guilty of inexcusable laches, usually of
from four to sixteen years, or that circumstances had occurred
since the granting of the original patent, which made the
reissue operate harshly ,or unjustly to the defendant in the
case.
Thus, in Mafathews v. fachine Co., 105 U. S. 54, there was a
delay of fourteen years; in Bantz v. -Frantz,105 U. S. 160, a
delay of fourteen years and six months; in Wing v. Anthony,
106 U. S. 142, of over five years ; in off#t v. Rogers, .106 U. S.
423, of two years and seven months; in Gage v. Herring, 107
1U. S. 640, of fourteen years; in Clements v. Odorless Apparatus Co., 109 U. S. 641, of nearly five years; in MeWyurray
v. Mallory, 111 U. S. 97, of nine years; in Thite v. Dunbar,
119 U. S. 47, of five years. In Parker W7ipyle. Co. v. Yale
Clock Co,, 123 U. S. 87, there was a delay of one year and
eight months, but it appeared that the improvements -not covered by the original patent had been brought into use by others
than the patentee before the reissue was applied for. In Coon
v. Wilson, 113 U. S. 268, a reissue was applied for only a
little over three months after th6 original patent was granted;
but the patentee waited -until th6 defendaits produced their

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

device and then applied for such enlarged claims as to embrace
this device, which was not covered by the claim of the original patent, and it was apparent from a comparison of the two
patents that the application for a reissue was made merely to
enlarge the scope of the original. In Wollensk v. Reiher,
115 U. S. 96, 101, there was a delay of more than five years,
Mr. Justice Matthews observing that "the settled rule of
decision is, that if it appears, in cases where the claim is
merely expanded, that the delay has been for two years, or
more, it is adjudged to invalidate the reissue, unless the delay
is accounted for and excused by special circumstances, which
show it to have been not unreasonable." In the very latest
case decided by this court, viz.: Electric-GasLighting Co. v.
Boston Electric Co., 139 U. S. 481, there was a delay of eight
and one-half years, and the sole object of the reissue was to
expand the claims. In ]Aewton v. Furst and Bradley Co., 119
if. S. 373, there was a delay of more than thirteen years, and
the defendant had begun in the meantime to make machines
of. the pattern complained of. In Ives v. Sargent, 119 U. S.
652, there was a delay of three years, and. in the meantime
the patent was infringed by a construction manufactured and
sold without infringing the patent as originally granted. In
1Torden v. Searls, 121 U. S. 14, there was a delay of six years;
and in .Matthews v. Ironclad Maufacturing Co., 124 U. S.
347, one of seven years.
From this summary of the authorities it may be regarded
as the settled rule of this court that the power to reissue may
be exercised when the patent is inoperative by reason of the
fact that the specification as originally drawn was defective
or insufficient, or the claims were narrower than the actual
invention of the patentee, provided the error has arisen from
inadvertence or mistake, and the patentee is guilty of no fraud
or deception.; but that such reissues are subject to the following qualifications:
First. That it shall be for the same invention as the original
patent, as such invention appears from the specification and
claims of such original.
Second. That due diligence must be exercised in discover-

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF- AND ANOTHER.
Opinion' of the Court.

ing the mistake in the original patent, and that, if it be sought
for the purpose of enlarging the claim, the lapse of 'two years
will ordinarily, though not always, be treated as evidence of
an abandonment of the new matter iothe public to the same
extent that a failure by the inventor to apply for a patent
within two years from the public use or sale of his invention
is regarded by the statute as conclusive evidence of an abandonment of the patent' to the public.
Third. That this court will not review the decision of the
Commissioner upon the question of inadvertence, accident or
mistake, unless the matter is manifest from the record; but
that the question whether the application 'Was made within a
reasonable time is, in most, if not in all such cases, a question
of law for the court.
To hold that a patent can never be reissued for an enlarged
claim would be not only to override the obvious intent of the
statute, but would operate in many cases with great hardship
upon the patdntee. The specification and claims of a patent,
particularly if the invention be at all cdmplicated, constitute
one of the most difficult legal instruments to draw with accuracy, and in view of the fact.that valuable inventions are often
placed in the hands of inexperienced persons to prepare such
specifications and claims, it is no matter of surprise that the
latter frequently fail to describe with. requisite certainty the
exact invention of the patentee,. and err either in claiming
that which the patentee had not in fact invented, or in'omitting some element which was -a valuable or essential part of
his actual invention.. Under such circumstances, it would be
manifestly unjust to deny.him the benefit of a reissue to secure
to him his actual invention, provided it is evident that there
has been a mistake and he has been, guilty of no want of rea-.
sonable diligence in discovering it, and no third persons have
in the meantime acquired the right to manufacture or sell
what he had failed to claim. The object of the patent law is
to secure to inveritors a monopoly of what they have actually
invented or discovered, and it ought not .to be defeated by a
too strict and technical adherence to the letter of the statute,
or by the application of artificial rules of interpretation. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence in this case shows that plaintiffs were conceded by
manufacturers a monopoly of this invention; that defendant
was the only one who had infringed their patents; and that
he did not begin to manufacture the infringing device until
1882, six years after the second reissue was granted. In view
of this and the fact that the second reissue was applied for
within five months from the time the original patent was
granted, and within thirty-seven days after the first, reissue,
and that it covers no more than the actual invention of the
patentee, so far as the same is an improvement upon the
Augur patent, we think it should be upheld.
(4) Defehdant also assigns as error the allowance by the
master of damages for the infringement of the Augur patent
prior to April 9, 1884, when the plaintiffs first took title to it.
It appear' from the record that the patentee assigned the
patent to one Atwater, oii February 4, 1873, subject to the
condition that if he paid a certain note of $2000 and interest
the assignment was to be void. This vested the real title in
the assignee.
raterman v. AcKenzie, 138 U. S. 252. The
assignment made no mention of past infringements. On
April 9, 1883, Atwater assigned to' Saladee all the interest
which he had acquired, together with all claims and demands
.for the past use of such patents, and u .April 9, 1884, Saladee
made a similar assignment to the plaintiffs.
"Itis claimed in this connection, first, that the bill did not
make the assignment of the claim for damages for prior
infringements of the Augur patent a basis- or ground of
recovery and asked no recovery therefor; a-d, second, that, ,if
the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the damages which
Atwater sustained by reason of the infringement of -this patent
prior to April 9, 188, and those which' Saladee sustained from
April 9, 1883, to April 9, 1884, the date of the assignment to
the plaintiffs, there was no evidence.that either Atwater or
Saladee suffered any damages by reason of the infringement,
nor any evidence that they could have supplied the trade during those years.
It is sufficient to say in reply to .this, that no such exception
was taken in the court belo~y to the master's report, the only

TOPLIFF v. TOPLIFF AND ANOTHER.
I Opinion

of the Court.

exception being that, in view of the Stringfellow and Surles
patent, the master should have reported only nominal damages.
It was held by this court, in Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359,

366, that proper practice in chancery requires that no exceptions to a master's report be made which were not taken
before the master, the object being to save time and give him
an opportunity to correct his errors or reconsider his opinion.
A party neglecting to bring in objections cannot afterwards
except to the report, unless the court, upon motion, see reason to be dissatisfied with the report and refer it to the
master for review, with liberty to the party to take objection
to it. And in _-YAioken v. Perin,18 How. 507, it was held
-directly that this court will not review a master's report upon
objections taken here for the first time. In affirmance of this
principle, Rule .21 (Sub. 2) requires that "when the error
alleged is to a ruling upon the report of a master, the specification shall state the exception to the report and the a6tion of
the court, upon it." This presupposes that the particular
exception relied upon was taken in the court below, and was
passed upon by the court adversely to the appellant. Proper
practice requires that objections to a master's. report shall be
taken in that court, that any errors discovered therein may be
rectified by the court itself, or by a reference to the master
for a correction of his report, without putting parties to the
delay and expense of an appeal to this court. It would le
maiifestly unjust if this court, after having affirmed the
action of the court below in every other particular, should
take up.an error in a master's report which was not called to
its attention, and reverse the case .upon that ground, when if
exception had been duly taken, the error could have been at
.once corrected. There is nothing in this case to indicate that
this point was ever made before the master, nor is it noticed
in the eight exceptions, taken to his first report, which was set
aside upon other grounds, or, as already observed, in the,
exception to his final report.
(5) For the same reason, that no exceptions were taken at
all by the plaintiffs to the masters report, we must decline to
notice their.. first two assignments of error. based 'upon' the.
inadequacy,'pf the damages awarded.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

There is much force in the third assignment. that the court
erred in overruling plaintiffs' motion to increase the damages,
and in refusing to give a decree for such increase. The master
finds that for some years before the defendant began to manufacture, he was the travelling sales agent of the plaintiffs;
that while so associated in the manufacture of carriage hardware and appliances, they established a large trade in certain
parts of the country; and that during this period, the defendant, while travelling for the firm, became acquainted -with
their trade, and the location, extent of purchase and solvency
of- their customers. His connection with the firm having terminated, defendant went to Cleveland, and in 1882 opened a
rival establishment, and began the infringement of thesepatents. Before that time, plaintiffs were the exclusive manufacturers of these equalizers, and had equipped their establishment with sufficient machinery to enable them to supply the
market; but they neither issued licenses nor established a
royalty for the manufacture or use of their improvement.
The.- defendant, knowihg all their customers -and plaintiffs'
facilities for the manufacture of equalizers, made serious inroads upon their business, and sold almost exclusively to those
who had formerly been, customers -of the plaintiffs. Under
these circumstances, we should not have disturbed the decree
of the court below, if it had seen fit to increase the damages;
but in view of the fact that the defendant carried on the business apparently without profit to himself, and that a decree
passed against him for the sum of. $8480.51 actual damages,
we are not inclined to reverse it upon that -ground. The
allowance of an increase of damages under the statute is a
mntter which rests somewhat in the discretion of. the court,
and we'should not be inclined to disturb its.finiding upon this
point, unless the evidence clearly-demanded it.
_ The decree of the court below is, therefore,

-affirmed.

