GOODE v. GAINES.
Syllabus.

however, is not inconsistent with the idea that if they had
been issued for an illegal purpose, the purchaser would have
been chargeable with notice of such illegality, by reason of the
omission .to state on the face of the bonds the purpose for
which they were issued.
In Young v. Camden County, 19 Missouri, 309, the act
required that county warrants should be written or printed
in Roman letters without ornament, in order to prevent the
issuing of paper by county courts which could be used as a
circulating medium. This was held to be merely directory;
but the case, though cited by the plaintiff here, is'not in point.
The court held expressly that all the words prescribed by the
statute were in the warrants, and that the introduction of other
words did not vitiate them.
In view of the circumstances under which these bonds were
issued the instruction to return a verdict for the- defendant
was proper, and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affmed.
MR. JusTiCE BREwER

dissented.

GOODE v. GAINES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COUR'

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 227. Argued April 18, i892. -Decided

May 2, 1892.1

The court again adheres to its decision in Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276,
touching titles in the Hot Springs Reservation, and holds that there are
no facts in these cases which take them out of the operation of that
decision; but, in view of the delay in commencing these suits, and the:
previous acquiescence of the plaintiffs in the possession by the defendants,
it limits the right of an accountin equity of the rents of the premises to
the date of the filing of the bills.
1 With this case were argued at the same-time No. 302, SxrrH v. GAINES;
No. 303, buGA.N V. GAiNES; No. 304, COHN v. GAINEs; No. 305, ALLEN v.
GANES; No. 306, MADISON v. GAINES; No. 807, RuGG V. GANES; No. 308,

12

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Tim court stated the case as follows:
These were bills in equity filed by William H. Gaines and
wife, on the 23d of May, 1884, against the appellants, respectively, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Arkansas, all seeking the same relief, and couched,
mqutatis mutandis, in substantially the same language.
The bill in No. 302, Smith v. Gaines, was as follows:
"William H. Gaines and Maria Gaines his wife, bring this
suit against John Kubler and George H. Smith, and for cause
of action allege that in the year 1851, in pursuance of the
instructioA of the Secretary of the Interior, plaintiff Maria
Gaines, Albert Belding, Henry Belding and George Belding,
heirs and legal representatives of Ludovicus 3elding, entered,
under the pre~mption laws of the United States, the southwest quarter of section thirty-three, in township two (2) south,
range nineteen (19). west, for which they paid the United
States government two hundred dollars, which was advanced
by plaintiff Win. H. Gaines, and which money the United
States still retains. At the time of said entry a small portion
of said land was occupied br Mrs. Lydia Belding, widow of
Ludovicus Belding, and the portion of said land for which
',
and in -. Wm.
this suit"is brought was occupied by H. Gaines, Maria Gaines, Albert Belding, Henry Belding, and
George Belding, under the supervision and control of Win. H.
Gaines, brought suit in the Hot Springs Circuit Court against
and recovered judgment for the possession of said
land, which judgment was afterwards affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State of Arkansas and by the Supreme Court of
1856, Win. H!
the United States, and on the- day of -,
Springs
County,
put into the
by
the
sheriff
of
Hot
Gaines was,
of
possession
possession of said propetr by virtue of a writ
issued upon the judgment of said Hot Springs Circuit Court in
GARNETT v. GAINES; No. 309, GARNETT V. GAINES ; NO. 310, RUGG V. GAINES;
No. 311, GRANGEI V. GAINES; No. 312, NEUBERT v. GAINES; No. 313, SUMPTER

v. GAINES; No. 314, LATTA V. GAINES; N O. 315, LATTA v. GAngES; all Appeals from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Arkansas. The opinion of the court is entttled in all the 6ases.

GOODE v. GAINES.
Statement of the Case.

obedience to the mandates of said Supreme Courts, both of the
State and of the United States, and said plaintiffs, Wm. H.
Gaines and Maria Gaines, his wife, remained in peaceable and
quiet possession of said property until the 1st day of June,
1876, when they were dispossessed of said property by a
receiver appointed by the Court of Claims of the United
States, under an act of Congress entitled 'An act in relation
to the Hot Springs reservation, in Arkansas, approved June
11th, 1870.
"Plaintiffs entered into possession by virtue of said entry
and by virtue of the decisions of said State and United States
Supreme Courts and the writs of possession issued in pursuance of said judgments, and continued in possession for a
period of about twenty years, until the Supreme Court of the
United States, in a suit to determine to whom the patent
should issue, decided that said lands were not subject to preemption or entry, and that no claimant was entitled to a
patent, but the same was still the property of the United
States, which decision was rendered April 241th, 1876. Plaintiff during said twenty years paid taxes on said property and
fenced and built houses on the same and otherwise improved
the same.
"On the 1st day of October, 1870, plaintiff Win. H. Gaines
leased a lot of ground, which has since been laid off into lots
and blocks by the Hot Springs Commission iii pursuance of an
act of Congress and is now known as lot. (2) two, in block
seventy-seven (77), to John Kubler, which lease was for the
term of one year, to be renewed at the election of the lessee
from year. to year until the title to the Hot Springs quarter
section of land was settled, for an annual rent of -, payable in
monthly instalments of-.
"Said lease also provides that all buildings and improvements erected on said lot by the lessee might be removed
therefrom during the continuance of the lease or within thirty
days thereafter, but that no buildings or improvements erected
could be removed while said rent or any part thereof remained
due and unpaid. It also provides that the lessbr should have
a lien on all buildings and improvements to secure the rent, a*

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

copy of which is hereto attached in Exhibit 'A' and made a
part thereof.
"Said lessee took possession of said land under and by
virtue of said lease only, and in no other way whatever, and
he and - assigns occupied the same under said lease until the.
1st day-of June, 1876.
"That on the 24th day of April, -, said lessee and his
assigns owed the lessor for rent the sum of three hundred and
eleven dollars and eighty-five cents ($311.85). Said lessee and
his assigns failed to remove, said buildings and improvements
,erected by them at any time during or within thirty days
after the ex piration of the lease, and by virtue of the provisions
of the lease said buildings and improvements erected by said
lessee and his assigns became the buildings and improvements
of Win. H. Gaines.
"That on the 12th day of September, 1876, said lessee,
John Kubler, sold-and transferred to George H. Smith all'his
right, title, and claim to said premises, he, George H. Smith,
,well knowing before said transfer all the terms and conditions
of said lease, which -transfer was made without the knowledge
or consent of the plaintiff.
"Plaintiffs, by arrangement with George, Henry and
Albert Belding, having become the owners of said claim, aver
that in less than six calendar months after the first sitting of
the Hof Springs Commission, under the act of Congress of the
United States entitled 'An act in relation to the Hot Springs
reservation, in the State of Arkansas,' approved March 3rd,
1877, they filed their claim before said commission to purchase
said lot, and that George H. Smith filed a like claim, and upon
the hearing of said claims they were consolidated by said commission for the purpose of hearing the testimony; and said
petitions filed and the testiaony taken before said commission
clearly showed that George H. Smith had acquired his possession in no other way but by said lease made by plaintiff Win.
H. Gaines to said John Kubler, as will more fully appear
from a complete copy of the petition, testimony and record
entries in said claim, filed herewith and marked Exhibit 'A'
and made part hereof; and notwithstanding that said peti-

GOODE v. GAINES.
Statement of the Case.

tion and testimony showed that defendant George H. Smith
acquired possession only by virtue of said lease, and that, too,
after the 24th day of April, 1876, to wit, September 12th,
1876, still said commission misconstrued the law applicable to
that state of facts and awarded the right to purchase said lot
to defendant George EH. Smith, and since said award, said
defendant has purchased said lot from the United States and
received a patent therefor, and on account of said misconstruc-'
tion of the law as applied to the facts before said commission
the right to purchase said lot, which in law, equity and good
conscience should have been awarded to plaintiffs, was by said
misconstruction of the law illegally and wrongfully awarded
to defendant George El. Smith by said Elot Springs Commission.
"Plaintiffs aver that as defendants have never had any
-right or title to said lot or to the possession thereof than that
which they derived from said lease and under covenants to
restore possession to plaintiff Win. El. Gaines, that said defendants should be held to hold said lots as trustees for the use and
benefit of plaintiffs.
"Plaintiffq offer to pay any sum of money that may be
found due to the defendants or either of them by reason of any
money paid to the United States for the purchase of said lots,
and to do all other acts which may be found to be just and
equitsble. Plaintiffs aver the property herein sued for is
worth more than five hundred dollars, and that this cause of
action arises wholly under the law of the United States.
"Plaintiffs ask that defendants be required to answer this
bill,
but not
oath.
,"And
theyunder
pray that an account may be taken of the
state
of accounts between themselves or either of them and said
defendants severally; that they may be allowed reasonable
rents for the occupancy of the said premises; that defendants
may be decreed to hold said lots as trustees for the plaintiffs
and to convey the same to the plaintiffs, and that they may
have such other relief as may be equitable."
Answers and replications having been filed, proofs were
made sustaining complainants' allegations, and the Circuit
VOL. cxi V-10

OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

Court entered decrees in complainants' favor as to the title to
the lots severally involved, and sent the cases to a special master for an accounting. Reports were subsequently made, stating an account charging- defendants with rent or rental value
from the date of the awards to the date of the filing of the
bills with interest, and with rental value from the date of filing the bills to the date of the decree with interest, and with
rent on improvements to the date of the reports; and crediting defendants with the present value of the improvements;
taxes, etc., paid; and the amount paid the government for the
lots, with interest. Decrees Were entered in accordance with
the reportsiand the cases brought on appeal to this court.
Mr. John .cOlwre
clusive.

for appellants in Nos. 302 to 315 in-

The matters in controversy in these cases grow out of, and
are founded on the act of Ntarch 3, 1877, which provides for
the survey and sale of what is known as the Hot Springs
reservation, in the State of Arkansas, 19 Stat. 377, c. 108, and
the act of June 16, 1880, entitled, "An act for the establishment of titles in Hot Springs, and foF other purposes." 21
Stat. 288, c. 246. The question of those titles was before this
court in The Hot Springs Cases, 92 U. S.698; Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276; and Iawrence v. Rector, 137 U. S. 179.
I contend Rector v. Gibbon does not furnish a rule of decision
for these cases.
At the threshold, I am willing to admit, if the court had the
power to decide anything in the Rector-Gibbon case at all, it
is decided correctly. While I admit the case was decided
correctly, I do not assent to the proposition that this or any
other court could divest title out of one in whose favor the
award was made, and vest it in another, even if the decision
of the' commission was wrong. That case turned on the construction of a lease, and it no more follows that one lease is to
be construed like another, than that one contract means what
another does.
The lease in the Rector-Gibbon case stipulates that at the

GOODE'v. GAINES.

.147

Argument for Appellants.

end of the term the lessor should have the right to take the
imprQvements by paying two-thirds of their first cost; that if
the lessor should not pay this amount at the end of the term,
the lease should be extended on the same conditions, until he
should make the payments, giving ninety days' notice of his
intention to terminate the lease.
The proof was, that Rector gave the notice, that he was
ready and willing to pay, but he could never get the lessees, to
give or name the amount.
The leases, in the cases at bar, declare that they may "be
renewed, from year to year, until the title to the Hot Springs
quarter section is settled,

.

.

.

and that all buildings and

improvements that may be erected on said lots by the lesse.es,
may be removed therefrom by the lessees, at any time within
thirty days after the expiration of the same."
In the Rector-Gibbon case, the improvement became the
property of the lessor by the election and the terms of the
contract. In the cases at bar, the buildings were to remain
the property of the lessees without any stipultion for purchase
by the lessor.
In the Rector-Gibbon case, the court found that Rector was
the owner of the improvement and gave him the lot. In the
cases at bar, the court finds, as did the commission, that the
buildings belong, not to the lessor, but to the lessees. In one
case, the right to purchase the lot falls to him who was the
rightful owner of the improvement, and in the cases at bar,
the person who is found to be the owner of the improvement
is declared to be a trustee for one who did not make or own
the improvement.
In the one case the lease created a contract whereby the
lessee undertook to build a house for the lessor, while in the
case now under consideratioi the contract was that the ldssee
might build a house for himself.
The questions discussed in the Rector-Gibbon case were as
to the nature of the grant contained in the act of 1877; to
whom it was made, and whether the decisions of the commissioners were final.
Four of the judges of this court were of the opinion th"

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

the award of the commissioners was final, expressing no opinion as to the nature of the .grant, and five were of the opinion
that it was not, and that, for errors of law, its decisions might
be reviewed.
Congress, during the pendency of the bill, now kno~vn as the
act of 1871, refused to allow an amendment to be made to the
bill, granting the courts jurisdiction to review the awards
of the commissioners; and after the awards were made, it
was again appealed to, to allow the courts to review the
awards, and it again refused. Congress was asked to amend
the act of 1877, during its pendency, to make it mean what
the court, in Rector v. Gibbon said it meant, and it refused to
allow the words the court placed in the act of 1877 to become
a part of .it, because it changed the grant from the persons
on whom they intended to bestow the bounty, and conferred
it on persons who had asserted title, instead of those who had
made improvements.
I am not influenced to indulge in this line of argument,
from the fact that the personel of the court has changed since
the decision in the Rector-Gibbon case, for I shall not indulge
in argument that I would not -have indulged in, if the personel
of the court had remained the same.
I am not here to make a wanton attack on the RectorGibbon case, nor to disturb matters set at rest by that 'decision, but to protect the interests of clients, by calling,,in a
respectful manner, the attention of the court to some matters
that were not called to its attention before, with a feeling of
confidence, if they had been, the decision might have been
different.
The fact that neither Rector nor Gibbon could acquire title
under the act of 1877, and that no claimant at Hot Springs
acquired title under the act of 1877, does not seem to have
been called to the attention of the court.
The fact that Congress, by the act entitled, "An act for the
establishment of titles in Hot Springs, and for other purposes,"
approved June 16, 1880, by direct enactment, authorized these
appellants to purchase the lots in controversy, seems to have
been overlooked in the Rector-Gibbon case. The first section
of the act to which I allude is as follows:

GOODE v. GAINES.
Argument for Appellants.

'"That any person, his heirs or legal representatives, in whose
favor the commissioners appointed under the acts of Congress of 1877 and 1878, relative to the Hot Springs of Arkansas, have adjudicated, shall have the sole right to enter and
pay for the amount of land the commissioners may have
adjuded him entitled to purchase, within eighteen months
next after the expiration of the notice required

-.

at

40 per centum of the assessed value of said lands as placed
thereon by said commissioners."
All titles at Hot Springs are based on the act of June M,
1880, and not on the act of 1877. The difference between
these acts is, that under the act of 1880, the right to purchase
the lot comes. by a declaration' of Congress, and that the persons in whose favor the commissioners have adjudipated shall
have the sole right to purchase, while under the other the
right to purchase comes from the award of the commissioners.
It is true that the commissioners have adjudicated that certain persons should have the right to purchase the lots in controversy, but it is also true that, after that adjudication, Congress took the whole question of awards under consideration,
and by a direct and express enactment de~lared the appellants
should have the sole right to purchase. The question now is,
not whether the court can review the awards of the commissioners, but whether it can review and set aside the award of
Congress.
If the language of the opinion in the Rector-Gibbon case be
read in the light of the facts disclosed by the record, it furnishes no rule of decision for the cases now before the court.
But if you take an isolated sentence like this: "Whatever the
lessees and those under them did, by way of improvements on
the leased premises, inured to the lessor's benefit as absolutely
and effectually as though done by himself," and apply it to a
case where the improvements, under the lease, were to remain
the property of the lessees, you establish a rule of decision that
violates the obligation of the contract and takes the property
of one man away from him and gives it to another. You turn
the act of 1877 into an act of confiscation, instead of that of
rpre~mption.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

If the leases, in the cases now under consideration, had a
similar provision'to that exhibited in the Rector-Gibbon case,
there are many expressions of opinion to be found that would
apply to the cases at bar, but there is no such lease. I have a
right to assume, and shall assume, that the court intended its
language to be confined to the case made by the record, and
was not attempting to fix a rule of decision in cases not before
the court.
It is said in the opinion that, "lessees under a claimant or
occupant holding the property for him and bound by their
stipulation to surrender it on the termination of their lease,
stand in no position to claim an adverse and paramount right
to purchase. Their possession is his possession." If this sentence be taken as an interpretation of the act, without reference to the facts disclosed by the record, in which the language
was used, the appellees could draw some comfort from it; but
confine it to a case where the lease gave the improvements to
,the lessor, and where the right to purchase the lot followed
the ownership of the improvements, it furnishes no rule of
decision in a case where one claims the lot and where it is
adjudged the improvements do-not belong to him.
When the court makes use of- the expression, "holding the
property for him," the word property is used in its broad
sense, covering the improvements as well as the lot. It is not
used in its narrower sense and confined to the lot itself.
After the 24th of April, 1876, there was no such thing as
holding the property for the old claimant, unless the old
claimant was the legal or equitable owner of the improvements on the lot. The relation of landlord and tenant was on
-that day dissolved by the terms of the contract. The title to
the property on that day was in the United States, and it soon
thereafter took possessiofn by its receiver; and to say that the
old tenants of Gaines "held possession for him," while they
were attorning to and paying rent to the United States, is
to extend the relation of landlord and tenant beyond the confines of known law. Nor is it true, as a proposition of law,
that a former tenant could not acquire title from the new
-

landlord.

GOODE v. GAINES.
Argument for Appellants.

Before the 24th of April, 1876, there were two eptates; the
fee and the leasehold. On that day the fee was declared to be
in the United States. On the leasehold were improvements
which the lessees, under their lease, had the right to remove,
but being fixtures they could not be removed without the
assent of the new landlord. If the buildings on the lots had
belonged to the lessor, and the old tenant remained in them, I
concede that after the passage of the act of 1877, the commissioners should have treated the occupant in the light of one
holding over. Not because the relation of landlord and tenant
existed during that period, but because the right to purchase
the lots was awarded to the former owner of the improvement. The right to the lot, as well as the improvement, had
been lost. Congress granted the improvement to the former
owner, regardless of past relations.
In the case where the improvement belonged to the lessor,
it conferred on him the right to purchase the ground on
which the improvement had been made. But if the improvement belonged to another -than the lessor, the right to purchase went to him who owned it on the 24th of April, 1876.
The right to purchase flows from and is bbttomed on an improvement. No improvement, no lot.
The contention of the appellee is, that the possession which
the appellant had, of his own house, was the possession of the
appellees; that that possession was under a lease from him,
and that whatever a donor should eleet to present, of right,
must go to the landlord. The bald, naked claim is, that, having accepted a lease the term of which expired, the new landlord could not make a present to his old tenant, or give him
a right to purchase the land.
The appellee could not avail himself of an'improvement
made by another unless he was the owner of it.
To give the lots in controversy to Gaines is to give them
to one.who, the court finds, as a matter of fact, never made any
improvement thereon. To give them to Gaines under such a
finding, is to disregard the letter and spirit of the statute. To
give them to Gaines, is to take from appellants that which
the Congress of the United States, by a solemn act, declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

they should have. To give them to Gaines, is to say that the
courts and not' Congress have the sole right to dispose of the
public domain.
. It is apparent, from the language of the act of 1877, that
Congress intended that the adjudications of the commissioners
should be final, and that this intent is made manifest frbm
following the form of statutes that this court, for more than a
quarter of a century, had declared created a board belonging
to the political department of the government, and whose
adjudications could not be reviewed by the courts.
_Mr. Thomas B. -Martin and -Mr. George W. .Afurp1y filed
a brief for the appellant in No. 227, claiming that that case
differed from the others in some essential features.
.A&. U. M. Rose (with whom was .Afr. 0. B. Rose and -Mr.
R. .X. Davies on the brief) for appellees.
M . CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of. the court.
It is unnecessary to enter upon a history of the "Hot
Springs litigation," as detailed in Rector v. United States ;
Hale v. United States; Gaines v. United Sta:es, 92 U. S. 698;
and Rector v. Gibbon, 111 U. S. 276.
As to the title of the lots in question, we repeat what was
.said in -Lawrencev. Rector, 137 U. S. 139, "that nothing was
developed in answer or testimony to disturb the conclusions
of law heretofore reached by this court." The argument for
appellants has been elaborate and exhaustive, but does not
convince us that these cases can be taken out of the rule laid
down in Rector v. Gibbon.
The estoppel which. prevents a tenant who has acquired
possession as such from claiming titlp adversely to his landlord, does not depend on the validity of his landl(rd's title.
And the assertion in the bills that the right to remove the
buildings put upon the -lots by the tenants was abandoned,
and the fact that, while appellees made improvements upon

GOODE v. GAINES.
Opinion of the Court.

the land claimed by them, they were not shown to have
made such on the specific lots, do not affect the operation
of the estoppel. Belding's heirs claimed under a paper
title, and if there, had been no tenants, the improvements
made by themselves would have given them the "possessory
right of occupation "1of the tract within the meaning of the
act of Congress; and the tenants cannot be allowed to object
that the improvements which they made, and which, strictly
speaking, they abandoned by their conduct in the premises,
gave them rights superior to their landlord.
The decision of this court in 92 U. S. 698 was rendered
April 24, 1876, and the receiver was appointed and took possession of the property for the United States in June of that
year. The act of March 3, 1877, "in relation to the Hot
Springs reservation in the State qf Arkansas,". (19 Stat. 377,)
creating the commission, provided that "no claim shall be
considered which has accrued since the twenty-fourth day of
April, eighteen hundred and seventy-six," and referred to
claims to the land, or parts thereof, then eiisting, and not to
independent claims acquired thereafter. But there is no merit
in the suggestion that George, Henry, and Albert Belding
could not lawfully assign their interest in the Belding claim to
Gaines after that date, for the language of the act relates to
claims that had then accrued, and not to the subsequent acquisition of claims so -ituated. It may be that after the title was
adjudged .to be in the United States the tenants could not
remove the buildings; but the commissioners found that the
buildings belonged to them, and the decrees here gave the
value of them to appellants. No appeal was prayed by appellees in this regard and no question arises in respect of it.
Inasmuch as the tenants set up claims to the lots in hostility
to the leases, they cannot complain of decrees in their favor
for the value, and whether under some of the leases the buildings were to become the property of the lessor, while in other
cases they might have remained the property of the lessees,
does not control the principle upon which Reetor v. Gibbon
rests. As to the contention that the act of Congress of June
16, 1880, (21 Stat. 288,), was not given due weight because not,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

referred to in the opinion in Rector v. Gibbon, it is to be observed that that suit was brought July 12, 1880, argued here
March 19, 1884-, and decided April 7, 1884. It is not, therefore, to be assumed that the act of 1880 was overlboked at
that time, but that the court was of opinion that it did not
affect the questions under consideration; and in that view we
concur.
We are not satisfied, however;, with the directions to the
master in the interlocutory decrees, in respect of the accounting, and with the results thereupon finally adjudged. While,
by reason of the original leases, appellants must be decreed to
hold the several parcels in controversy in trust for appellees,
and to surrender possession thereof, yet it is to be borne in
mind that they were not knavish or fraudulent possessors, and
that they claimed title, in moral good faith, under the awards
of the commission. The evidence disclosed that a large number of lots were awarded to appellees; that Gaines expressed
himself as contented with the awards, stating that they were
just and equitable; and that no steps in further litigation were
taken, on appellees' behalf, until after the announcement of
the decision of this court in Rector v. Gibbon, which was on
April 7, 1884, when (in May following) these bills were filed.
In the meantime appellants had paid the government, and obtained patents, under the awards in their favor, and had remained in possession upon the belief that their title was good,
seeking no other location, making no other arrangements, and
acting in expenditure as if these lots were their own. While
this acquiescence on appellees' part has not taken away their
right of action to recover the property, we think it operates
upon the right to equitable relief, in the matter of permitting
a recovery, by way of accounting, which they have themselves
applied for to a court of equity, for the period of time from
the date of the awards to the date of the filing of these bills.
Appellees permitted appellants to go on in the exercise of
ownership over the property, not only unmolested and without
question, but with affirmative encouragement to them to do so,
and, under the peculiar circumstances which characterize these
cases, we do not feel compelled to award a measure of relief,

GOODE v. GAINES.
Opinion of the Court.

which, in our judgment, would operate harshly and oppressively upon appellants, even though specific prejudice, because
of appellees' laches, may not be clearly made out upon these
records.
In seeking equity, appellees must do equity, and as a result
has been reached which gives the awards of the commission a
direction contrary to that Which appellees had accepted as
substantially equitable, we think equity requires that they
should not be treated as occupying the same position as if they
had maintained with vigor and promptness the rights which
they found on April 7,1884, they could assert.
In No. 227, Goode v. Gaines, considerable stress is laid by
counsel upon evidence which it is urged makes out an estoppel
against appellees as to the title, but we agree with the Circuit
Court that it falls short of doing so, and this case must be disposed of in the same way as the others.
We are of opinion that the accounting between the parties
should be stated both as to debit and credit from the 23d of
May, 1884, with the exception of the credit for the amounts
paid to the government for the lots, of which payments we
regard appellees as getting the entire benefit, and that no increased rent should be allowed on account of the improvements, as appellees are only to be held to their value as of the
date of the decrees. In other words, appellants should be
charged with rental value from the date of the filing of the
bills to the rendition of the decrees, with interest, and should
be credited with taxes, etc., paid after the date of the filing of
the bills, with interest, and also with the amounts paid the
.government for the different parcels, with interest from the
dates of payment, as well as with the value of the improvements, in each instance, at the time of the rendition of the
decrees.
The decrees are severally reversed, and the causes remanded to
the Circuit Court,wita a directionforfurtherproceedings
in conformity with this opinion, the costs in this court to
be equally divided.

