OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

terminated, and which may never have been resurrected,
should, at this lAte day, be permitted to disturb a title, legally
perfect, created by the general government after a decision
adverse to any resurrection of such right, for which full value
was paid, and on the faith of which costly inaprovements have
been made, and which now represents enormous value, to
the creation of which appellant has, apparently, contributed
nothing.
The decree is affirmed. The mandate will is e to tfe Supreme Court of the State of Wahington.

COX v. HART.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 828. Submitted January 4,1892. -Decided

FOR TE

May 16, 1892.

The granting or refusing of an application for continuance by the court
below is not subject to review here.
Whether an affidavit that one of the deeds relied on in the chain of title is
forged, filed in an acAon of trespass to try title in Texas, for the purpose of obtaining a continuance, is such an affidavit as would, under Rev.
Stats. Texas, art. 2257, affect its admissibility in evidence, quoere.
When both parties in an action to try title to real estate claim under a common source of title, it is unnecessary to consider whether the deed under
which the common grantor claimed was valid.
Every reasonable inducement will be made in favor of a judicial sale, so as
to secure, if it can be done consistently with legal rules, the object they
were intended to accomplisfh.
Where it is doubtful to which of two tracts of land in the same neighborhood, both the lroperty of the execution debtor, the description in the
marshal'p deed applies, extrinsic evidence may be admitted to show which
was intended, and the question left to the jury under proper instructions.
The Texas statutes making provision for an allowance for improvements,
inactions of trespass to try title, are intended to secure to the possessor
in good faith compensation for his improvements, either by direct payment therefor by the owner of the land, or by giving him an opportunity
to take the laud at its assessed value, where the plaintiff elects not to pay
for the improvements and keep the land; but they do not confer upon
such l ossessor the right to an execution for the assessed value of the
improvements at the expiration of a year.

C0- v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
.MXr. J. B. Scarbofough and M2fr. Eugene Williams for plaintiffs in error.
.AE. T. Hallett Phillips for defendant in error.
Mi. JusTiom HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of trespass to try the title to certain
lands in MfcLennan County, Texas, the boundaries of which
are fully given in the pleadings and in the judgment. They
are also described generally as "being the same tract of land
patented by the State of Texas to the heirs of James Stewart,
on the 2d day of July, 1849, by patent No. 379, volinme 5."

10M.V0 "AUNDO.
NAI%4

On the 2d day of July, .1949, the State issued "to the heirs
of James Stewart, deceased, their heirs and 'assigns," two
patents, each for 960 acres of land, in :McLennan County;
patent "No. 379, vol. 5," describing the land embraced. in it'
as "being in Mila'm district, on the waters of Bull Hide Creek
and Cow Bayou, about 12J miles S. W. from Waco village, by
virtue of bounty warrant No. 308, issued to James Stewart

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

by William G. Cook, Adjutant General, on the 9th day of
August, 184',"'etc.; and patent "No. 380, vol. 5," describing
the land embraced in it as being in "]Milam district on Bull
Hide Creek, about eleven miles S. W. by S. from Wtaco village, by virtue of bounty warrant No. 308, issued by William
G. Cook, Adjutant General, on the 9th day of August, 1847,"
etc. The relative situation of the two tracts to each other
appears from the above copy of a map proven to be a correct draft from a report of survey made under the order of
court:
The defendant J. P. Williams fled a disclaimer of any title
to the lands here in dispute, but alleged that he held a portion
of them under a certain lease from the defendant Cox. Other
defendants answered by demurrer, general denial, pleas of not
guilty, and limitation, and some of them suggested improvements made in good faith, for the value of which, in the
event the plaintiff succeeded in the action, they asked judgment under the statute of Texas.
. The jury found that the aptlellee Hart, the plaintiff
below,
was entitled to the land in controversy; that the defendant
Cox had made valuable improvements upon seven hundred
acres of it, worth $6250, and the defendant Echols on three
hundred and, twenty-five acres of it, worth $3750; that the
plaintiff was not entitled to rents; and that, without the improvements, the lands held by Cox were 'worth $10,500, those
held by Echols $4875.
In conformity with the verdict, it was adjudged that the
defendants Cox and Echols were possessors in gopd faith of
the lands held by them, respectively; tbat no writ of possession should issue for those tracts before the'xpiration- of one
year from the date of the judgment unless the plaintiff paid to
the clerk of the court for Cox-he sum of $6250, and for Echols
the sum of $3750, with interest; that, if he neglected for one
year to pay such sums; with interest from the date of the
judgment, and, if Cox and Echols, within six months after the
expiration of the, year, paid to the clerk -Cox, the sum of
$10,500, and Echols the sum'of $4875 - then the plaintiff
should be forever barred of his -rit of possesgion as against

COX v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant so paying, and from maintaining any action
whatever against Cox and Echols, respectively, for the above
described tracts; that if. Cox and Echols did not within six

months after thp expiration of one year from the judgment
pay to the'clerk the above respecive sums for the plaintiff as
above provided, writs of possession might issue in his favor
against Cox and Echols or against the defendant so failing for
the lands recovered by plaintiff in this action; and that writs
of possession issue, as provided by law in ordinary cases, in
favor of the plaintiff against all of the defendants for the lands
recovered by him in this action, except the tracts adjudged to
be held in good faith by Cox and Echols.
Motions for new -trialand in arrest of judgment having been
overruled, a severance was had, upon notice, between the
defendants, so that Cox Tinsley and Echols might prosecute
this writ of error separately from their codefendants. The
writ of error has been heretofore dismissed as to Echols.
At the trial below the plaintiff, Hart, .for the purpose of
showing title in himself, introduced in evidence a copy of
patent No. 379 to the heirs of James Stewart, followed by
proof, in the deposition of Mrs. Catharine Stewart, that the
only heirs of James Stewart, on the 12th of April, 1854, were
William H. Stewart and John T. Stewart, and that they were
dead, Mrs. Stewart surviving them; a certified copy from the
clerk's office of McLennan County of a deed by William H.
Stewart, John T. Stewart and. Catharine Stewart, wife of "William H. Stewart, dated April 19, 1854, purported to convey'
to John De Cordova the land embraced in patent No. 379,
which deed was filed for record May 8, 1854, and recorded
two days afterwards; the original of a deed, dated September
7, 1858, by the marshal of the United States for the Western
District of Texas to Edmond J. Hart, Barnett B. Hart and
Isaac N. Marks, which, it was claimed, conveyed 'all the right,
title and interest of De Cordova, in the land in dispute; a deed
by B. B. Hart to E. J. Hart, of date July 30, 1874, conveyi g
to the latter all the right, title and interest of the grantor in
the partnership property, including real estate, personal propertV and assets of every description; and a deed from I. N.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Marks to E. J. Hart, of date August 19, 1874, conveying to
thie latter all the grantor's real estate in Texas or elsewhere.
For the purpose of showing a common source of title with
the defendants under De Cordova, the plaintiff also introduced a deed, dated May 29, 1884, from L. B. DaVis, administrator of the estate of De Cordova, purporting to convey to
Cox 960 acres of land patented to the heirs of James Stewart
by patent No. 379; a deed from Cox to Tinsley, dated December 31, 1884, conveying an undivided half interest in the same
land; and deeds to Echols from Cox and Tinsley dated September 4, 1885, for 320 acres of the land m.controversy.
The defendants introduced-in evidence the original of a deed
from Mrs. Catharine Stewart, Mrs. Fannie Finnerson, joined
by her husband, William H. Finnerson, Virginia Sexton and
Josh. iH. M cAllister to the defendants Cox and Tinsley, acknowledged November 16, 1889, (which was after the institution of this action,) before a notary public in Baltimore,
conveying to the grantees therein the land described in patent
No. 379; the above deed of 1884, from De Qordova's administrator to Cox, for the purpose, the bill of exceptions states,
"of showing in themselves the defendants' title and good faith
improvements made on the land since defendants had possession thereof;" the deed from Cox to Tinsley of December 31,
1884, conveying an undivided half of the land; and the deeds
from Tinsley and Cox to Echols, of September 4, 1885.
When this case was called for trial there was on file a
deposition of Mrs. Catharine Stewart, taken by the plaintiff,
as well as a copy of the above deed to De Cordova of April
12, 1854. The defendants moved for a continuance in orddr
that they might take the depositions of Mrs. Stewart and E. J.
Hart, Jr.; the motion being based upon two affidavits made
by Tinsley. One of those affidavits stated that Tinsley had,
then recently, held a conversation with Mrs. Stewart, during
which "affiant by her statement was led to believe, and does
believe, said deed to be a forgery, and that her evidence concerning the same will be material." The application for a
continuance was denied, and that action of the court is assigned
for error. But the granting or refusing of such an application

COX v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

was in the discretion of the court, and its action,'in that regard,
cannot be reviewed on error. And it is here referred to only
because of the supposed bearing upon other assignments of
error of Tinsley's affidavit relating to the alleged deed to De
Cordova,
The certified copy of what purported to be the deed of April
12, 1854, to De Cordova set out the specific boundaries of -the
lands in controversy, and, also, described them as lands containing "nine hundred and "eixty acres of land situated and
being in Milam District, on the waters of Bull Hide Creek and
Cow Bayou," and as "the same which were granted to the
heirs of James Stewart, deceased, by virtue of bounty land
warrant No. 308, issued to James Stewart by William G. Cook,
adjutant general, under a patent from the State of Texas, -No.
379, issued from the General Land Office upon the twentyeighth day February, one thousand eight hundred and fiftyfour, as by reference thereunto had will more fully and at
large appear."
That deed appears to have been signed, sealed and delivered
in the presence of two witnesses named, and was certified by
E. iR. Sprague, commissioner of deeds for the State of Texas,
resident in Baltimore, to have been pefsonally acknowledged
before him by the several grantors, to be thei act and deed,
(they being known to him as the individuals described as and
professing to be the parties of the first part,) and that Catharine Stewart, being examined out of the presence and hearing
of her husband, stated that she executed the same freely, voluntarily and without being induced to do so by fear, threats,
ill usage or the displeasure of her husband. On the copy
introduced there was no scroll or character 'showing that the
commissioner affixed his seal to the original.
To the introduction of the copy the defendants objected, in'
different forms, and at various stages of the trial, substantially
upon these grounds: 1. There was on file an affidavit.of forgery, meaning Tinsley's affidavit used on the application for
a continuance of the case. 2. It was not proven as an ancient
instrument, because there was no evidence of possession, payinent of taxes, or other act by any claimant under the deed, or

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

by any one else, to free it from just grounds of suspicion or
to lead the minds of the jury or the court to a conclusion of
its genuineness, nor was there any accounting' for the absence
of the seal from the certificate of the commissioner, Sprague,
before whom it purported to have been executed. 3. The
proof- does not show its execution as required under the affidavit of forgery.
After the evidence on both sides was concluded, but before
the final submission of the case to the jury, the court stated
its view of. the law to be that, a no proof had been offered of
any act or assertion of ownership under the deed from the
heirs of James Stewart to De Cordova, that deed could not be
read as an ancient document; in which event the defendants
were entitled to a verdict. But, at a subsequent stage of the
trial, 'the court announced that, on further consideration, it
was of opinion that "where a common source was shown a
party could not go back of the common source to impeach a
deed for forgery," and that " the defendants having themselves offered the deed from De Cordova's administrator to
Cox, and Cox to Tinsley, and from both to Echols, were con-'
cluded on the question of common source and estopped to
deny the genuineness of the deed from James Stewart's heirs
to De Cordova, or it was immaterial whether said deed was
genuine or not."
Upon the subject of title, the court charged the jury:
"This is a suit to recover land as described in plaintiff's petition. He has introduced in evidence a chain of title from the
government to him in support of his claim. If the description in the marshal's deed to Hart and his partners named in
the deed described the land that the plaintiff has sued for, the
plaintiff is entitled to recover. The only questiou as to their
title in issue before you is whether the land tbi sue for is
the land described in the marshal's deed. The dcscriiion,
you will bear in mind, is 'a certain tract or parcel 41 tand
containing, by estimation, 898 acres, lying in Milam district,
in McLennan County, on Cow Bayou and Bull Hide streams,
patented to the heirs of James Stewart for 960 acres.' The
proof develops that there are two tracts of land patented to

COX v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

,the heirs of James Stewart, each'for 960 acres. The position
of defendants is that this description applies as well, if not
better, to the eastern James Stewart No. 380, but plaintiff
contends that it does not. Whether the marshal's deed is a
deed to No. 379 is the question for you to determine.; whether
it is described with sufficient distinctness, taking the description in the patent and deed; it conveys the whole grant, if it
conveys any. The amount of land, the number of acres, being
different in the deed from that in the patent, you are only to
consider as a circumstance in connection with all the other
proof in your inquiry as to whether the description in the
marshal's deed does describe either one of the two James
Stewart surveys. The burden is on the plaintiff. You must
be satisfied from the proof given that No. 379, the western
Stewart grant, is the land described in the marshal's deed
before you can find for the plaintiff: If the proof satisfies
you .that the land the marshal d'escribes in his deed as lying
on Bull Hide and Cow Bayou streams is the western Stewart
No. 379' then th.e plaintiff is entitled to recover; if otherwise,
the plaintiff cannot recover and your verdict must be for the
defendants," etc. To this charge the defendants excepted.
Was the deed to De Cordova of April 12, 185i, admissible
as evidence in behalf of the plaintiff ? The statutes of Texas
provide that every instrument of writing which is permitted
or required by law to be recorded in the office of the elerk of
the county court, and which has been or may be so recorded
after being proven or acknowledged in the manner provided
by the laws in force at the time of its registration, shall be
admitted as evidence Without the necessity of proving its
execution, provided "the party who wishes to give it in evidence shall file the same among the papers of the suit in
which he proposes to use it, at least three days before the
commencement of the trial of such suit, and give notice of
such filing to the opposite party or his attorney of record;
and unless such opposite party, or some other person for him
shall, within three days before the trial of the cause, file an
affidavit that he believes such instrument of writing to be
forged." Rev. Stats. Texas, 1879, Art. 2257, p. 330.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

The only affidavit in the record was that of Tinsley filed in
support of the application for a continuance. It may well be
doubted whether that was such an affidavit as the statute
requires in order to impeach a deed. It was not filed for the
specific purpose of attacking the g nuineness of the deed of
1854, when it should be offered in evidence, but only to obtain
a postponement of the trial. There is ground for holding
that after being used for that purpose the affidavit had fully
performed its functions, and could not be regarded further as
attacking that deed. Stribling v. Atkinson, 79 Texas, 162,
164.
But without deciding this point, we pass to the consideration of another question which seems to be controlling. The
statutes of Texas regulating the pleadings and practice in
actions of trespass to try title provide : "It shall not be necessary for the plaintiff to deraign title beyond a common
source, and proof of a common source may be made by the
plaintiff by certified copies. of the deeds showing a chain I
of title to the defendant emanating- from and under such
common source; but before any such certified copies shall
be read in evidence they shall be filed with the papers of
the suit three days before the trial and the adverse party
served with -fttice of such filing as in other cases; provided,
that such cEertified copies shall not be evidence of title in
the defendant unless offered in evidence by him, and the
plaintiff shall not be precluded from making any legal objection to such certified copies or the originals thereof when
introduced by the defendants." Rev. Stats. Texas, 1879, Title
96, c. 1, Art. 4802. i Key8 v. .Mason, 44 Texas, 140, 142,
143, the court refers to the different modes in'which the
plaintiff may make a primafaiecase as against the possession
of the defendant, among which is to prove "that defendant
and himself claim the land under a common source of title
and that his is the better right or superior title under such
IIn Sayles's Texas Civil Statutes, vol. 2, p. 636, and in some of the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Texas, referring to this statute, this word is
"claim;" but the original act of September 28, 1871, used the word" chain."
Texas Laws 1871, p. 3.

COX v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

common source. Proof of title by the plaintiff in either
mode may not coliclusively establish his right to the land
against the defendant, butlit overcomes the presumption of
right from his possession, and throws upon him the burden of
disproving the plaintiff's case or showing a superior title in
himself; as, for example, that he holds a title from the sovereignty of the soil of older date or superior right to that of
the plaintiff; that by a subsequent possession to that on which
plaintiff counts he has title by prescription, or has barred the
plaintiff's right of recovery; or, though he has a title under
a common source with plaintiff, he also has, or -there is outstanding in a third party, a superior title to that which they
claim from the common source, which it must not appear that
he is estopped from setting up." In Crabtree v. TF iteselle, 65
Texas, 111, 115, which was an action of trespass to try title to
land which had been partitioned among a mother and her
children, the part in controversy falling to the mother, the
court said: "If there was a mistake in the partition, by
which she got more than her share, still what she got was
the land in controversy, and by agreeing that she was the
common source of title, the appellant is precluded from
claiming any interest in the land not derived -from her."
Again, in Burns v. Gqff, 79 Texas, 236, 239: "The rule Which
renders it unnecessary for a plaintiff to deraign title beyond
the common source is one of convenience, and dQes not deprive
a defendant of the right to show that he has the superior
right through the common source or otherwise. The statute
provides that 'proof of a common source may b. made by
the plaintiff by certified copies of a deed s~towing a claim, of
title to the defendant emanating from and under such common source.' When a deed is introduced which shows such a
claim by a defendant, that is sufficient, although the deed may
be for some cause inoperative. If a defendant claims through
a purchaser under execution against a plaintiff, the sheriff's
deed may not for some cause pass the title, yet such a deed
will be sufficient evidence of common source, and the plaintiff
ieed not deraign title beyond himself as common source.
If defendant has superior right to the land, whether
VOL. cxLv-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

this arises from adverse possession or other fact, this he is not
precluded from showing; but, in the absence of some evidence
on his part, tending to show such superior right, the plaintiff
would be entitled to recover on proof of claim of title emanating from and under the common source, made in the manner
prescribed by the statute." See also Pearson v. -Flanagan,52
Texas, 266, 279; Stegall v. u 54 Texas, 192, 197 ; Selman
v. Hlardin,58 Texas, 86; Calder v. Ramsey, 66 Texas, 218, 219.
These adjudications make it clear that it was not necessary
for the plaintiff - even if Tinsley's affidavit for continuance
was sufficient as an affidavit of forgery under Art. 4802- to
prove the genuineness of the alleged deed of April 12, 1854,
to De Cordova. Ele claimed under De Cordova, by virtue of
the marshal's deed conveying all his right, title and interest
in the lands in dispute. The plaintiff introduced the deed
from De Cordova's administrator- to Cox for the purpose of
showing a common source of title with the defendants. The
defendants introduced the same deed without disclaiming the
title conveyed by it, for the purpose, the bill of exception distinctly states, (anid this court must accept that statement as
conclusive,) of showing title in themselves, as well as good
faith in making improvements. So that, upon this branch of
the case -it appearing that the parties claimed under a common source - the law was clearly for the plaintiff, unless the
defendants had established a superior right in themselves, or
unless the plaintiff had failed to acquire by the marshal's deed
the right, title and interest of De Cordova.
In reference to the deed to Cox and Tinsley from Mrs.
Stewart and others of INovember 16, 1889, which was introduced to show a superior title in the defendants -they assuming that the deed of April 12, 1854, was a forgery -it need
only be said that there is an entire absence of proof that the
grantors in that deed were the heirs either of the patentee,
James Stewart, or of William 1=. Stewart and John T. Stewart. Moreover, we do not find from any of the defendants'
numerous requests for instructions that anything was claimed
by them, at the trial, on account of the deed of November 16,
1889, obtained just before the commencement of the trial.

COX v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

So that the vital question in the case is as to the validity ot
the marshal's deed of September 7,1858; for that deed, if
valid, passed to the plaintiff, before the date of the deed from
Davis, administrator, to Cox, the entire interest of De Cor.,
dova the common source of title; but if, for any reason it
was void, and if the deed of April 12, 1854, could not have
been read in evidence as an ancient document, the plaintiff
must fail for want of sufficient proof that he acquired that
interest.
The marshal's deed recites a judgment, rendered on the
24th day of M arch, .1856, in favor of Edmond 5. Hart, Isaac
N. Marks and Barnett B. Hart, for $1061.50, and costs, in the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Texas, against J.De Cordova, eiecution upon which was
August 16, 1858, levied on (the deed containing no other
description of the premises) "a certain tract or parcel of land
as the property of said X. De Cordova., containing, by estimation, eight hundred and ninety acres of land, lying in Milam
Land District and County of McLennan, aforesaid, on Cow
Bayou and Bull Hide streams, patented to the heirs of James
Stewart for nine hundred and sixty acres." It recites, atso,
the sale of the land at public auction to the plaintiffs in the
execution, and conveys to them, their heirs and assigns forever, all the right, tit4e and.interest of De Cordova in the
land levied on and sold.
The defendants objected to the-admission of the marshal's
deed as evidence upon the ground that it did not sufficiently
describe any land, and, if any, noabthe land embraced by
patent No. 319. We are of opinion -ahta the charge to the jury
in reference to, this deed was unobjectionable. In Trhite v.
-Luning,93 'U. S.514, 523, this court said: "The policy of the
law does not require courts to scrutinize the proceedings of a
judicial sale with a view to defeat them. On the contrary,
every reasonable intendment will be made in their favor, sc
as to secure, if it can be done consistently with legal rule
the object they were intended to accomplish." And we do n1
understand that any different rule prevails in Texas.
Zingston v. Pickeen,, 46 Texas, 99, 101, the court says: "

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

construction of a deed, being a matter of law, is for the court.
If, therefore, the land intended to be conveyed by it be so
inaccurately described that it appears, on an inspection of the
deed, the identity of the land is altogether uncertain and cannot be determined, the court should pronounce it void; but
when the uncertainty does not appear upon the face of the
deed, but arises from extraneous facts, as in other cases of
latent ambiguity, parol evidence is admissible to explain or
remove it. In such cases the deed should not be excluded
from the jury, but should go to them along with the parol
evidence, to explain or remove such'ambiguity; and the identity of the land is then a mixed question of law and fact, to
be determined by the jury under the instructions of the court."
So, in Mfilson v. Smitk, 50 Texas, 365, 369, the court, referring
to a sheriff's deed of land, said: "Certainly the deed cannot
be pronounced void upon mere inspection; for it cannot be
taid that it appears from the face of the deed that the land
conveyed cannot be identified by the aid of extrinsic evidence."
The.case of Brown v. Chalzers,63 Texas, 131, 135, is cited
by the defendants in support of their contention. While the
favor of a
court says that no presumption will be indulged in"
sheriff's deed for land, that case is not in conflict with previous
decisions; for the court says that "the conveyance must contain such a description as will enable the purchaser to find
and identify the land," and "if, from the description contained
in the sheriff's deed, or deeds or instruments therein referred
to, the land can be found and identified with reasonable
certainty, then the conveyance will be sustained." It cites
with approval the language of a text-writer, who says that
"when a deed refers to another deed, or a map, or a survey,
it has the effect to incorporate such deed, map or survey into
the description, the same as if copied into the deed itself, and
what is therein described will pass." Martindale on Conveyances, ยง 108. See also Flannegan, v. Boggess, 46 Texas, 330,
335; Norris v. Hunt, 51 Texas, 609, 614; Steinbeoko v. Stone,
53 Texas, 382, 386; ]?agsdalev. Robinson, 48 Texas, 3=5, 395;
.Knowles v. Torbitt, 53 Texas, 55'.

COX v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.,

The court7 below ic',ld n.ot have said that the marshal's
deed was void, upon its face, for uncertainty in the description
of the land conveyed. It conveyed 898 acres, by estimation,
of land lying in a named land district and county, on "Cow
Bayou and Bull Hide streams," which was "patented to the
heirs of James Stewart for 960 acres." It could not be
assumed, as matter of law, that this land could not be identified. It was for the jury to say, upon all the evidence,
whether the land, so conveyed, was that levied upon by the
marshal, and described, in patent No. 379 to James Stewart's
heirs for 960 acres, as being "in Milam district, on the waters
of Bull Hide Creek and Cow Bayou, about twelve and a half
miles S. W. from Waco Village," or the 960 acres described
in patent No. 380, as being "in Milam district, on Bull Hide
Creek, about eleven miles S. W. by S. from' Waco Village."
An ingenious argument was made to show that the description
in the marshal's deed best suited the lands embraced in patent.
No. 380. But the whole matter was fairly submitted to the
jury under the injunction that the plaintiff could not recover
unless the proof showed that the land described in patent No.
379, the western Stewart grant, was that conveyed by the
marshal's deed. In order to identify the land the jury were
entitled to look at the written documents, in connection with
the parol evidence. "It is undoubtedly essential," Chief Justice Marshall said, "to the validity of agrant that there should
be a thing granted which must be so described as to be capable
of being distinguished from other thihgs of the same kind.
But it is not necessary that the grant itself should contain
such a description as, without the aid of extrinsic testimony,
to ascertain precisely what is conveyed." Blake v. -Doherty,
5 Wheat. 359, 362. See also Reed v. Pr"o.prs. .errimack
Locks &c., 8 How. 274, 288, 289.
For the reasons stated, we think that the marshal's deed
was admissible in evidence, and established the plaintiff's
right to the lands in dispute as against'the defendants.
The defendants asked that if their motions for new trial
and in arrest of judgment were overruled, the judgment be
amended so ag to give them a direct execution against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff for the value.of their respective improvements, in the
event the plaintiff failed to pay for the same within one year
from the date of the judgment, and in the event they failed,
within six months after the expiration of such year, to pay
the plaintiff the assessed value of the land. This motion was
denied, and the action of the court thereon is assigned for
error.
The statutes of Texas making provision for an allowance for
improvements in actions of trespass to try title arp as follows:
"ART. 4813. The defendant, in any action of trespass to
try title, may allege in his pleadings that he and those under
whom he claims have had adverse possession in good faith of
the premises in controversy, for at least one year next before
the commencement of such suit; and that he and those under
whom he claims have made permanent and valuable improvements on the lands sued for during the time they have had
such possession, stati.ag the improvements and their value
respectively; and stating also the grounds of such claim.
"ART. 4814. Where the defendant has filed his claim for
an allowance for improvements in accordance with the preceding article, if the court or jdry find that he is not the rightful owner of the premises sued for, but that he and those
under whom he claims have made permanent and valuable
improvements thereon, being possessors thereof in good faith,
the court or jury shall at the same time estimate from the
testimony -

"1. The value at the time of trial of such improvements as
were so made before the -filing of the suit, not exceeding the
amount to which the value of the premises is actually increased
thereby:
"2. The value of the use and occupation of the premises
during tte time the defendant was in possession thereof, (exclusive of the improvements thereon made by himself or those
under whom he claims,) and also, if authorized by the pleadings, the damages for waste or other injury to the premises
committed by him, not computing such annual value for a
longer time than two years before suit, nor damages for waste
or injury done before said two years:

COX v. HART.
Opinion of the Court.

"3. The value of the premises recovered, without the
improvements made as aforesaid.
"AnT. 4815. If the sum estimated for the improvements
exceed the damages estimated against the defendant and the
value of the use and occupation as aforesaid, there shall then
be estimated against him, if authorized by the testimony, the
value of the use and occupation and the damages for injury
done by him, or those under whom he claims, for any time
before the said two years, so far as may be necessary to balance
the claim for improvements, but no further; and he shall not
be liable for the excess, if any, beyond the value of the improvements.
"ART. 4816. If it shall appear from the finding of the
court or jury, under the two preceding articles, that the esti-'
mated value of the use and occupation and damages exceed
the estimated value of the improvements, judgment shall be
entered for the plaintiff for the excess and costs in addition to
a judgment for the premises; but should the estimated value
of the hnprqvements exceed the estimated value of the use
and occupation and damages, judgment shall be entered for
the defendant for the excess.
' AnT. 4"817. In any action of trespass to try title when th6
lands or tenements have been adjudged to the plaintiff, and
the estimated value of the improvements in excess of the -value
of -the use and occupation .and damages has been adjudged to
the defendant, no writ of possession shall be issued for the
term of one year after the date of the judgment, unless the
plaintiff shall pay to the clerk of the court for the defendant
the amount of such judgment in favor of the defendant, with
the interest thereon.
"ART. 4818. If the plaintiff shall neglect for-the term of
one year to pay over the amount of said judgment in. favor
of the defendant, with the interest thereon, as directed in the
preceding article, and the defendant shall, within six months
after the expiration of said year, pay to the clerk of the court
for the plaintiff the value of the lands or tenements without
regard to' the improvements, as estimated by the court or jury,
then the plaintiff shall be forever barred-of his writ of posses-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

sion, and from ever having or maintaining any action whatever against the defendant, his heirs or assigns, for the lands
or tenements recovered by such suit.
." ART. 4819. If the defendant or his legal representatives
shall not, within the six months aforesaid, pay over to the
clerk for the plaintiff the estimated value of the lands or tenements, as directed in the preceding article, then the plaintiff
may sue out his writ of possession as in ordinary cases.
" AuT. 4820. The judgment or decree of the court shall recite the estimated value of the premises without the improvements, and shall also include the conditions, stipulations, and
directions contained in the three preceding articles, 'so far as
they may be applicable to the case before the court." Rev.
Stats. Texas, 1879.
We are of opinion that the motion of defendants Cox
and Echols for an execution against the'plaintiff was based
upon an erroneous interpretation of the statute, the object of
which was to concentrate in one person the ownership of the
land and of the improvements. The plaintiff, as holder of
the title, was given one year within which to pay for such improvements. If he did not do so within that time, then the
defendant could take the land, at its assessed value, and forever bar the plaintiff of his writ of possession. If the defendant did not exercise that privilege within the time prescribed,
then the plaintiff was entitled to his writ of possession. Under
the construction for which the defendants contend, the owner
of the land could be improved out of his title by ameliorations
for which he did not desire to pay, or for which, perhaps, he
was unable to pay. What the statute intended to effect was,
to secure to the possessor in good faith compensation for his
improvements, either by direcf payment therefor by the owner
of the land, or by giving him an opportunity to take the land
at its assessed value where the plaintiff elected not to pay for
the improvements- and keep the land. The requirement that,
if the defendant or his legal representatives should not, within
the time prescribed, pay over to the clerk for the plaintiff the
value bf the lands or. tenements, estimated without- regard to
ilie improvements, the plaintiff could sue out his writ of .pos-

