NEW ENGLA-ND MORTGAGE CO. v. GAY.

123

Statement 6f the Case.

NEW ENGLAND MORTGAGE SECURITY COMPANY
v. GAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 221.

Argued March 22, 1892.-Decided May 2,1892.

When the jurisdiction of this court depends upon the amount in controversy, it is to be determined by the amount involved in the particular
case, and not by any contingent loss which may be sustained by either
one of the parties through the probative effect of the judgment, however
certain it may be that-such loss will occur.
The plaintiff made a loan to the defendant upon his promissory notes to the
amount of $8500, secured by a mortgage of real estate in Georgia of the
value, of over $20,000. In assumpsit to recover on the notes the jury
found the transaction to have been usurious and gave judgment for the
sum actually received by the debtor, which was $1700 less than the
amount claimed, and for interest and costs, The effect of that judgment, if not reversed, is, under the laws of Georgia, to invalidate the
reZd, that,
mortgage given as security, in proceedings to enforce it.
notwithstanding such indirect effect, this court has no jurisdiction, the
amount directly in dispute in this action being only the usurious sum.

Tmis was an action of assumpsit by the plaintiff in error
against Jacob ]9. Gay upon four promissory notes, made by
Gay, amounting to $8500, with interest at eight per cent; payable annually, with all costs of collection, including ten per
cent attorney fees. These notes were made payable to
Charles L. Flint or order, at the office of the Corbin Banking
Company, New York City, and as to each of them the defendant waived his right to the benefit of the exemption provided
for by the constitution and laws of Georgia. To secure these
notes a deed was given by Gay with the consent of his wife
to said Flint, of land in Schley County, Georgia, with release
of homestead and dower. At the same time a bond for a
reconveyance on payment of the motes was given by Flint to
Gay, according to the usual course of business in Georgia,
where such deed and bond stand in the place of a mortgage.

12-1'

OCTOBER TERMr, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Flint took the notes and deed in behalf of the plaintiff, and
afterwards endorsed the notes to the plaintiff.
The defendant pleaded four pleas, two 'of which were
stricken out by the court; and the case was tried. upon the
first, which was an ordinary plea of nil debet, and upon the
second, wherein the defendant alleged that the consideration
of these notes was a loan of money by the plaintiff to the
defendant of the sum of $6463, and that all of -said sum and
notes sued on in excess of said sum was contrary to law, and
defendant was only liable for the sum received by him and lawful interest thereon from the dates of the notes, which amount
he averred his willingness to pay. Upon the trial, the defendant rblied solely upon the defence of usury, and the court
charged the jury that the defendant admitted an indebtedness
of $6463, wi th interest, etc., and instructed them in any event
to return a 4erdict for that amount. In this connection fie
further charged that, if they believed the defendant received
$6800, they were then directed to return a verdict for that
sum, with interest and attorney fees, etc. The jury returned
a verdict for $6800 principal, $2041.01 interest, and $884.15
attorney fees, making 'a total amount of $9725.66, for which
a judgment was entered with costs.
Plaintiff thereupon secured the settlement of a bill of exceptions and sued out a writ of error from this court.
Yr. N. J Hammond, (with whom were MY9. Simeon E.
Baldwin and .Xr. . E. Simmons on the brief,) for plaintiff
in error, said on the question of jurisdiction:
Our action is a statutory method of enforcing a security,
and the test of jurisdiction is the value of the" security, which
is an absolute title, or of the debt. The debt secured was
$8500, beside interest and attorney's fees, and the property to
which title was given as security is worth $22,500.
The Georgia statutes on which our rights depend are
printed in the margin.'
" SEC. 1969. Whenever any person in this State conveys any real property by deed to secure any debt to any person loaning or advancing said

NEW ENGLA0D MORTGAGE 00. v. GAY.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Our declaration set forth the mortgage, and prayed that the
defendant might be required to answer it. This was not a
prayer for a monetary judgment, but that he answer to all
the allegations. Under the Code of Georgia (Sec. 3082),
equitable remedies, such as the establishment of liens, can be
given in an action at law.
The great thing we sued for was to get a judgment establishing our right to levy on the lands conveyed by the deed.
In bringing this action we. were pursuing the first stage iri
the proceeding. We could not realize on our security without
first getting a personal judgment on the notes; and the levy
of final process, whereby we should realize on our security,
vender any money, or, to secure any other debt, and shall take a bond for
titles back to said vender upon the payment of such debt or debts, or shall
in like manner convey any personal property by bill of sale, and take an
obligation binding the person to whom said property was conveyed to reconvey said property upon the payment of said debt or debts, such conveyance of real or personal property shall pass the title of said property to the
vendee, (provided that the consent of the wife has been first obtained,)
till the debt or debts which said conveyance was made to secure shall be
fully paid, and shall be-held by the courts of this State to be an absolute
conveyance with the right reserved by the vender to havesaid property reconveyed to him upon the payment of the debt or debts intended to be secured, agreeable to the terms of the contract, and not a mortgage.
"S..
1970. When any judgment shall be rendered in any of the courts
of this State upon any note or other evidence of debt, which such conveyance of realty was made and intended to secure, it shall and may be lawful
for the vendee to make and file and have recorded in the clerk's office of
the superior court of the county wherein the land lies, a good and sufficient
deed of conveyance to the defendant for said land; and if the said obligor
be dead, then his executor or administrator may, in like manner, make and
file- such deed without obtaining an order of the court for that purplse,
whereupon the same may be levied on and sold under said judgment as in
other cases: .Provided, that the said judgment shall take lien -upon the
land prior to any other judgment or encumbrance against the defendant. '"SEc. 1971. The Vender's rights to a reconveyance of the property upon
his complying with the contract, shall not be affected by any liens, encumbrances or rights which would otherwise attach to the property by virtue
of the title being in the vendee; but the right of the vender to'a reconveyance shall be absolute and permanent upon his complying with his contract
with the vendee according to the terms."
"SEC. 2057, f. All titles to property made as a part of an usurious contract, or to evade the laws against usury, are void."

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Ilaintiff in Error.

was the last stage of the action. Had this been an ordinary
action of assumpsit the averments as to the real estate would
have been impertinent. As it was they were material, if not
vital. .Nralier v. Saulsbury, 03 Georgia, 477, 480.
The plea of usury attacked not qnly our right to recover
judgment for the full sum we demanded, but our right to
levy final process on the judgment, upon the land conveyed to
secure the debt. The verdict for the defendant upon this plea,
in other words, not only reduced our debt by $2300, which of
itself might not have authorized proceedings in error, but prevented our availing ourselves of a security worth $22,500, which
we claimed for the entire debt, which debt, in any point of
vie,w, exceeded $5000. Usury did not avoid the notes, but it
did altogether avoid the deed, and therefore this remedy upon
it by final process, by the express provisions of the code.
3fcLaren, v. Clark, 80 Georgia, 423; Small v. Hicks, 81
Georgia, 691. It also avoids the waiver of the homestead
exemption, contained in the notes. Cleghorn v. Greeson, 77
Georgia, 343.
In view of the statutory provisions governing this action, it
seems to us evident that it is one "where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value of five thousand dollars," because the matter in dispute was our right to
a judgment, on which to found .a levy on certain described
lands worth $22,500, to collect a debt exceeding $5000.
The case does not belong in the class of .Elginv. -arshall,
106 U. S. 578, and The Sydney, 139 U. S. 331. It is not one
where the judgment is complained of because in some other case
it will have a probative force against us. Here the matter
directly in dispute between the parties wt'as whether we. were
entitled to a judgment carrying a specific lien on specified real
estate described in the declaration, and enforceable on final
process, in this very suit, to be executed by a sale of that real
estate agreeably to that lien.
A case somewhat analogous is that of Stinson v. Dousman,
20 How. 461, from 21innesota Territory. There a suit was
brought for rent by way of damages for breach of a contract
of sale where possession had been given and afterwards the

INEW ENGLAKD MORTGAGE CO. v. GAY.

127

Opinion of the Court.

contract had, as the plaintiff claimed, been terminated. The
defendant's answer denied any breach of contract, and asked
for a judgment affirming the continuing validity of the contract. Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff to recover less
than $1000. At that time $1000 was the limit of jurisdiction
on writs of error to territorial courts, and the question of jurisdiction was thus disposed of in this court.
"The defendant in error objected that the matter in dispute
was not of the value of one thousand dollars, and therefore
this court had no jurisdiction of the cause. The objection
might well be founded, if this was to be regarded merely as
an action at common law. But the equitable as well as the
legal considerations involved in the cause are to be considered.
The effect of the judgment is to adjust the legal and equitable
claims of the parties to the subject of the suit. The subject
of the suit is not merely the amount of rent claimed, but the
title of the respective parties to the land under the contract.
The contract shows that the matter in dispute was valued by
the parties at eight thousand dollars." Stinson v. JDousman,
20 How. 461, 466. This case was referred to with approval
in EDgin v. .farsliall, 106 'U. S. on page 581.
The title under our deed, or the right which we claimed to
sell the laiid embraced in our deed to satisfy such judgment as
we might recover,' was in legal effect denied by the plea of
usury; and the judgment rendered on that plea necessarily:
operates "in denial of the right claimed by the company which
is of far greater value than the sum which, by the act of Congress, is the limit below which an appeal is not allowable."
-MarketCo. v. Hqfman, 101 U; S. 112, 113.
No appearance for the defendant in error.
MR. JusTioF BROwN delivered the opinion of the court.

From the above statement of facts it is clear that, while the
plaintiff sued to recover $8500 and interest, he actually recovered $6800 and interest and attorney fees, amounting in all
to $9725.66, so that the amount actually in dispute between

,OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the parties in this court is the differefice between the amount
claimed and the amount of the verdict. Computing interest
at eight per cent upon the entire amount Qf the notes and
adding an attorney fee of ten per cent, the amount due according to the plaintiff's theory was approiimately $12,155,
or $2429.34: more than the amount recovered. This is the
proper method of ascertaining the amount in dispute in this
court. Tiitsman v. National Bank, 100 U. S. 6; Jenness v.
Citizens' National Bank of Rome, 110 U. S. 52; WTabash, St.
Louis &c&'Railway v. R'nom, 110 U. S. 304:; Hilton v. Dickinson, 108 U. S. 165.
It is true that, under the Code of Georgia, section 2057, subdivisionf, "all titles to property made as a part of an usurious
contract, or to evade the laws against usury, are void." The
Supreme Court of Georgia has construed this as rendering a
deed infected with usury void as title, and depriving the holder
of the right of recovery of the land against the maker. Carswell v. Rartridge,55 Georgia, 412; Johnson v. Griffl. Banki/ng Co., 55 Georgia, 691. It was said in Broach v. Smith, 75
Georgia, 159, that usury not only destroys the legal title, but
prevents the deed from ever being treated as an equitable
mortgage. It appears in this case that the value of the property conveyed as security is $22,500, and under the laws of
Georgia it may be that the finding of usury may have the
effect of invalidating the deed given as security for the loan.
Assuming this to be true, however, it is not the immediate
result of the judgment in this case. The provisions of the
Georgia code with respect to real estate security for loans are
somewhat peculiar. The practice is for the person receiving
the' loan to convey the real property by deed to the person
loaning or advancing the money, and to take a bond for title
back to the vendor upon the payment of the debt, and by section 1969 "such conveyance of real or personal property shall
pass the title of said property to the vendee

.

.

.

till the

debt or debts which said conveyance was made to secure shall
be fully paid," etc. By section 1970, "when any judgment shall
be rentered- in any of the courts of this State upon any note
or other evidence of debt which said conveyance of realty was

NEW ENGLAND -MORTGAGE CO. v. GAY.

129

Opinion of the Court.

made and intended to secure, it shall and. may be lawful for
the vendee to make and file and have recorded in the clerk's
office of the Superior Court of the county wherein the land lies
*a good and sufficient deed of conveyance to the defendant for
said land; . . . whereupon the same may be levied on and
sold under said judgment as in other cases: P'ovided, That
the said judgment shall take lien upon the land prior to any
other judgment or encumbrance against the defendant."
The substance of this is, that upon taking judgment upon
the note or bond given for the loan, the lender may reconvey
the property tb the debtor, and immediately levy upon and
sell it by virtue of his judgment and execution. In such case
it would seem that, if he buys the land at the sale, he would
recover possession of it by an action of ejectment upon his
sheriff's deed.
In this connection it was held by the Supreme Court of
Georgia in Carswell v. Htartridge,55 Georgia, 412, 414, that
the proceediig under this statute was optional, and that a
recovery in ejectment might be had upon tlfe original deed
made to secure the debt, so long as the title remained in the
creditor, and the debt was unpaid. "That the next section of
the code," said the court, "gives a remedy for collecting the
money by proceeding to judgment, filing a deed, levying upon
the land and selling it, does not negative the former remedy.
The creditor may either assert his title or part with it to the
debtor, at his option. He may possess himself of the land and
hold it till he is satisfied, or he may enforce satisfaction in the
manner pointed out by section 1970. In this respect, his
position is like that of an ordinary vendor of land who retains
the title as security, giving a bofid to reconvey upon payment
of the purchase money." That the creditor may also have
the land sold by the sheriff, and bring ejectment upon the
sheriff's deed, is evident from the case of Johnson v. Giffln
Baaking and Trust Company, 55 Georgia, 691.
In either case, however, the effect of the seizure upon the
title of the creditor to the property can only be judicially
determined in an action of ejectment, either upon the original
deed or upon the sheriff's deed given in pursuance of the
VOL. CXLV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.

Opinion of the Court.

statute, or by a bill in equity to enjoin the creditor and sheriff
from making sale under the levy.' Johnson v. Griffln Banking and Trust Company, 55 Georgia, 691. The effect of the
judgment in this case, then, is not to avoid the title of the
plaintiff to this property, but to establish the existence-of usury,
which, in another action, may be pleaded as avoiding such
title. It is true that the plaintiff set forth in its declaration
that the defendant gave'a deed of certain lots, describing
them, to secure the payment of the notes; but it claimed
nothing by virtue of this allegation in its prayer for relief,
demanding only a money recovery. Upon the trial the deed
and bond were offered in evidence, but were ruled out, and
the judgment was simply for the amount of the notes and
interest less the alleged usury.
It is well settled in this -ourt that when our jurisdiction
depends upon the amount in controversy, it is determined by
the amount involved in the particular case, and not by any
contingent loss either one of the parties may sustain by the
probative effect of the judgment, however certain it may be
that such loss will occur. Thus in Grant v. leKee, 1 Pet.
248, it was held, that the court would not take jurisdiction
of a case where the title to a piece of land of less value than
the jurisdictional sum was directly involved, although the
whole property claimed by the lessor of the plaintiff under a
patent, and which was recovered in ejectment in the court
below, exceeded that sum. In Farmers'Bank of Alexandria
v. Hoof, 7 Pet. 168, a bill was filed for the purpose of foreclosing a deed of trust given to secure a sum of money less
than $1000. It appeared that the property covered by the
deed exceeded that sum in value, but the court held the
real matter in controversy to be the debt claimed in the bill,
"and, though the title.of the lot may be inquired into incidentally, it does not constitute the object of the suit." A similar
ruling was made in Ross v. Prentiss,3 How. 771, where a bill
was filed to enjoin the marshal from levying an execution of
less than $2000 upon certain property, the value of which was
more than $2000. In this case as in the other, the argument
was made that the defendant might lose the whole bdnefit of

lEW ENGLAND MORTGAGE CO. v. GAY.
Opinion of the Court.

his property by the forced sale under the execution, but the
court held that it did not depend upon the amount of any
contingent loss, and dismissed the bill. In Troy v. Evans, 97
U. S. 1, action was brought to recover certain instalments
upon bonds, the aggregate of which bonds exceeded $5000,
but the judgment was for less. The case was dismissed,
although it appeared that the judgment would be conclusive
in another action upon future instalments upon the same
bonds. A like ruling was made in Elgin v. _Marshall, 106
UC.S. 578, where a judgment was rendered for $1660.75,
against a town, on interest coupons detached from bonds
which it had issued under a statute claimed to be unconstitutional. The case was dismissed in an elaborate opinion by
Mr. Justice Xatthews, although it appeared that the judgment
might be conclusive as an estoppel in any subsequent action
upon other coupons, or upon the bonds themselves. So in
_New Jersey Zinc Co. v. Trotter, 108 U. S. 56. - an action of
trespass wherein the plaintiff recovered judgment for less than
$5000- the case was dismissed, although the court indicated
that the jury were compelled to find the plaintiff had title to
the land, and "that in this way the verdict and judgment
may estop the parties in another suit, but that will be a collateral, not the direct, effect of the judgment." See also
Opelika, City v. Daniel, 109 1U. S. 108. In Bruce v. fanchester & -Keene Railroad,117' U. S. 514, suit was brought to
collect interest due on certain railroad bonds by the foreclosure
of a mortgage matde to trustees to secure a series of bonds
amounting to $500,000. As the suit was brought only to
recover the interest on the bonds, which was less than $5000,
the appeal was dismissed.
Most of the authorities on the subject are collated and reviewed in Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, and a conclusion
reached in consonance with the view expressed in the prior
cases.
The case of Stinson v. Dousman, 20 How. 461, is not in
conflict with these authorities. The action in that case was
for rent amounting to less than $500, but the cise itself involved the question whether a certain contract for the sale of

