OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Syllabus.

becoming the purchaser, acquire the fee and thereby despoil
those in remainder; it was, nevertheless, in the power of the
plaintiffs and those under whom they claim -long before; the
defendants became the owners of the lands by possession and
payment of taxes, under claim and color of title made in good
faith - to have placed the will of Romeb Lewis, duly proved,
upon record in Illinois, and, in that mode, to have given notice
of their interest in the lands.
The judgment in each of the above cases is afflrmed.

QUINCY, MISSOURI AND PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY v. HUMPHREYS.
AIPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOP

THE EASTERN DISTRIOT OF MISSOURI.
No. 223. Argued March 23,1892.-Decided April 25, 1892.

A receiver appointed by order of a court of chancery is obliged to take
possession of a leasehold estate, if it be included within the order of
the court; but he does not thereby become the assignee of the term,
or liable for the rent, but holds the property as the hand of the court,
and is entitled to a reasonable time to ascertain its value, before he can
be held to have accepted it as lessee.
The Wabash Company controlled 3600 miles of road, made up by the consolidation and leasing of many different railroads, upon nearly every one
of which there existed one or more mortga ges. Among them was the
Quincy road, 77 miles in length, which was leased by the Wabash in
August, 1879, for a term of 99 years, with privilege of renewal, acquiring
with the lease a majority of the stock. The Quincy road at the time of
the lease had issued mortgage bonds to the amount of $2,000,000, on
which there was a large amount of interest in arrear. To provide for
this and other floating debts, and to extend the road, a new issue of
mortgage bonds was provided for as part of the arrangement, which
were issued, and the road was completed, and entered into amd formed
part of the Wabash system. In May, 1884, the Wabash company filed a
bill in equity, alleging that it -was insolvent and could not procure the
means to pay its floating debts and interest, due, and praying the eourL
to take possession of its'property and admhinister it as"a whole. Receivers were thereupon appointed, who took possession, They Were

QUINCY &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPHREYS.

83

Syllabus.
directed to pay out of the income which should come into their hands
rental which had accrued or which might accrue upon all the company's
leased lines, but to keep accounts showing the source of income and
revenue with reference to expenditure. In June, 1884, the trustees under
a general mortgage, which the Wabash company had made of its whole
system, filed a cross bill praying for the foreclosure of their mortgage
and the appointment of receivers; but the court declined to appoint
receivers other than those already appointed. On the 26th of January
1884, the receivers informed the court of their inability to pay interest
falling due on certain classes of bonds and interest on certain stocks,
and made a statement in regard to several of the consolidated and leased
roads from which it appeared that the earnings of the Quincy road bad
at no time since its acquisition been sufficient to pay its operating expenses, the cost of its maintenance and the interest upon its mortgage
bonds. The receivers further petitioned the court for its advice, and
they were thereupon ordered'to keep separate accounts of the earnings,
incomes, operating expenses, cost of maintenance, taxes, etc., of each of
such lines, and to make quarterly reports thereof. These reports, when
made, showed, as to the Quincy Company, that in May, 1885, there was
a deficit of $20,251.09 in nine months' working. The court thereupon
made a general order, as to all the properties, which provided in substance that where there was no income, rental claims were not to be paid
by the receivers. On the 15th of July, 1885, the -trustees of the Quincy
mortgage petitioned the court to direct the receivers- to transfer that
road and its rolling stock to them, and an order was made to that effect.
No possession was taken under that order, but the leased property was
retransferred before the sale under the foreclosure of the general mortgage of the Wabash Company. The proceedings under the cross bill
resulted in a decree for such foreclosure on the 6th of January, 1886.
No surplus was realized from the sale under that decree. The receivers'
accounts on surrendering the property showed the net earnings to be
$3,304,633.61 less than the amount of the preferred debts with whose
payment they were charged. On the 8th of December, 1885, the intervening trustees of the Quincy mortgage filed a petition praying the court to
order the receivers to pay arrears of interest, taxes, cost of repairs and
rental, aggregating $114,380, and to decree them to be liens superior and
paramount to all mortgages on all the property of the Wabash Company.
On the 19th of March, 1888, the court denied this prayer and dismissed
this petition from which decree the Quincy Cbmpany and the trustees
took this appeal. Held,
(1) That the occupation of the Quincy road by the receivers under the
order of court created no relation which obliged them to pay rent
therefor under the lease;
(2) That no equities existed which called upon the court to divert the
proceeds"of the sale or the net earnings of the property while in
the receivers' hands, and apply them to the payments prayed for
by the intervenors ;'

OCTOBER TERAI, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
(3) That the action of the court in appginting receivers on the application of the mortgagor could not ue successfully challenged in this
appeal.

THE

court stated the case as follows:

The Quincy, Missouri and Pacific Railroad Company of
Missouri owned in 1879 about seventy-seven miles of road
extending westward from West Quincy towards the Missouri
River; had issued mortgage bonds to the amount of two
million dollars; and owed, in addition to the principal of said
bonds, a large amount of overdue interest accrued thereon.
By an indenture made August 21, 1879, the railroad of this
company was-leased to the Wabash Railway Company for a
period of ninety-nine years, with the option to the lessee to
renew the same perpetually. By the terms of this contract a
majority of the common stock of the Quincy Company was
to be transferred to the Wabash Company, so as to give the
latter control of the former, and a majority of directors in its
board was to be elected in the interest of the Wabash Company. The Wabash Company was to supply $125,000 t6 the
Quincy Company to enable it to complete the construction
of its road to Milan, to a connection with the line of the Burlington and Southwestern Railroad, and was itself authorized
to extend the road from Milan to its contemplated terminus
at Brownville, on the Nebraska state line. 'A new mortgage
was to be made, covering all the property of the Quincy Company, and securing bonds at the rate of $9000 per mile, which
was to be used in retiring the bonds then outstanding and providing for future construction. Preferred stock of the Quincy
Company was also to be issued and used in- connection with
the new bonds to liquidate its outstanding indebtedness, then
estimated to be about $600,000.
The Wabash Company agreed to set aside certain percentages of the gross earnings derived from the operation of the
Quincy Company's road and to apply these percentages, first,
to the payment of interest on the new bonds, and, second, of
dividends on the stock. The company guaranteed to-pay
interest on the bonds in the event that the said percentage of

QUINTCY &c. RAILROAD 00. v. HUMPIIREYS.

85

Statement of the Case.

gross earnings should be insufficient for that purpose; to main-

tain and operate the railroad of the Quincy Company, keeping the same in good condition and repair for the full term of
the lease; and to pay all taxes.

It was further provided that if the principal of the bonds
secured by the mortgage should bacome due in consequence

of default in the payment of interest, the Quincy Company
should have the option to forfeit the lease and reenter without
process of law.
Under date of October 1, 1879, a mortgage was made by
the Quincy Company, to Hlumphreys and Browning as trustees, whereby all its property, including leases and leasehold
.interests, was conveyed to the trustees to secure the payment
of bonds to be issued at the rate of $9000 per mile; and the
mortgage provided that a default of six months in the payment of interest might be availed of by the bondholders as a
cause for declaring all the bonds forthwith due.
November 10, 1879, the Wabash Company was consolidated
with other railroad companies, the consolidation forming the
Wabash, St. Louis and Pacifc Railway Company. This company received possession of the railway of the Quincy Company on July 1, 1880, and by the first of July, 1881, had
extended the road from Milan to Trenton, a distance of about
thirty-one miles.
On the 27th of May, 1881, the Wabash, St. Louis and
Pacific Railway Company filed its bill in equity in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, stating that it was insolvent; that it had accumulated a
floating debt for its maintenance of $4,784,145; that it was
about to make default in interest payments; that such default
would be ruinous to all parties interested in its maintenance
and its revenues; and that the interest of all the creditors and
bondholders would be thereby imperilled.
The bill made various persons and corporations parties defendant, having interests in the lines of the Wabash Company,
as lessors, mortgagors or trustees under deeds of trust covering the lines or portions 'thereof, including the Central Trust
Company and Cheney, trustees in a general mortgage; the

OCTOBER TERA,

1891.

Statement of the Case.

trustee in a collateral trust mortgage; the Quincy Company,
and others; and prayed the court to appoint successors to
trustees deceased, or to make such other order with respect
thereto as would cause the respective trusts to be properly
represented in the matters of the litigation ;,
and to require the
defendants to set up their several interests, so that the same
might be fully represented.
The bill alleged that by their terms nearly all, if not quite
all, the mortgages and trust deeds, whether executed by complainant or other companies on any portions of the line prior
to the time when complainant acquired the. same, not only
embraced the roads and tangible property of the companies
executing the instruments, but also the revenues and incomes
to be derived from the use of the parts of the roads so mortgaged; that the bondholders had always insisted upon their
right to look to the revenues of the sections of the road upon
which their mortgages rested as a means of paying and discharging their bonds; that all, or nearly all, of the mortgages
embraced all rolling stock to be thereafter acquired by the
companies executing the mortgages, but as the lines of the
original companies had been' absorbed into complainant's system, the rolling stock on the entire system had become so
intermingled as to be incapable of division according to the
ownership of the several lines of road or according to the
several mortgages; and that any attempt to control or dispose
of portions of such rolling stock by courts not having jurisdiction of the whole and not competent to deal with the entire
property as a unit would produce. great confusion and uncertainty and result in great loss to all persons interested in the
rolling stock or in complainant's property or securities.
The bill further averred that the complainant's directors and
officers had .thoroughly considered and already resorted to all
proper means- for obtaining the funds by which to pay the
floating indebtedness of the company and meet. the accruing
interest falling due at the beginning of the month of June
then next, and continuing to mature by instalments at very
short intervals, but had wholly failed to provide the means
with which to discharge the floating indebtedness and meet

QUINCY &c. IRAILROAD CO. -v.IHUMPHREYS.

87

Statement of the Case.

the interest, and the company was powerless to accomplish
such purpose, and was practicaly insolvent, and it was certain
that a default would occur in June, and complainant be also
without means of meeting the floating indebtedness.
It was further stated tlTat complainant's interest in the road.
and the interests of all its creditors and bondholders were
greatly imperilled by the existing- prospect of the' disruption
of the road on the happening of the default; and that if the
lines of railroad were broken up and the fragments thereof
placed in the hand- of various receivers, and the rolling stock,
materials and supplies seized and scattered abroad, the result
would produce irreparable injury and damage, not merely to
complainant but to all persons having any interest in the road
and the securities .thereof. Complainant, therefore," to prevent the breaking up of said lines of road and the scattering
abroad of its assets," and "in order to the preservation of the
interests of large numbers of persons, stockholders and creditors unknown to orator, and in order to the protection of the
interests of all concerned, and to prevent a great multiplicity
of suits," prayed the court to appoint one or more receivers,
"and empower and direct such receiver or receivers to take
possession of said entire property, and to preserve, operate and
manage and control the same, collect all indebtedness due or
to become due to orator, and otherwise to discharge all the
duties ordinarily imposed by courts of equity on the receivers
of railroad property by such courts appointed; that on a final
hearing of said cause your honors will, under this bill, or under
such amendments 'as may be made thereto, or such supplemental bills as shall be filed herein, or such cross-bills as
parties in interest may also file, decree the, sale of said entire
property, whether such decree shall judicially foreclose said
general mortgage or any of the other mortgages aforesaid, or
whether such decree shall dispose of said property as a trust
fund on general equitable principles; that your honors will
cause all the liens upon said property or any part thereof and
all rights, claims and equities of all persons interested therein
to be ascertained, defined and determined, and that the proceeds arising from the sale of such property or any part

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.
-

thereof be applied under the orders and decrees of this court,
according to the rights, interests and equities of parties or
persons interested in said fund ;" that all persons and all corporations having possession of complainant's property; or any
part of it, be directed to surrender the same to such receiver
or receivers as might be appointed, or to hold such property
or portions of property under such receiver or receivers, if the
latter shall elect to pursue such course; and that such order
may be made "as will insure the protection of the interests of
orator and its creditors, giving an opportunity to all the defendants not served with notice to be heard hereafter; and
orator avers that no injury can arise to any creditor or person in interest from the appointment of the said receivers
with or without notice, as such receivers' possession will inure
to the benefit of all the persons concerned."
Upon the filing of the bill an order was thereupon made on
the same day appointing Solon Humphreys and Thomas E.
Tutt receivers of the railroads and property of the company;
and it was ordered "that the said receivers, out of the income
that shall come into their hands froim the operation of said
railroad or otherwise, proceed to pay all balances due to other
railroads or transportation companies, or balances growing out
of the exchange of traffic accruing during six months prior
hereto; that said receivers also in like manner pay all rental
accrued or which may hereafter accrue upon all leased lines
of said complainant, and for the use of all terminals or track
facilities, and all such rentals or instalments as may fall due
from said complainant for the use of any portion of road or
roads or terminal facilities of any other company or companies, and also for all rentals due or to become due upon
rolling stock heretofore sold to complainant and partially paid
for; that said receivers also pay in like manner out of any
incomes or other available revenues which may come into their
hands all just claims and accounts for labor, supplies, professional services, salaries of officers and employ~s that had been
earned or have matured within six months before the making
of this order;

.

.

.

that such receivers keep such accounts

as may be necessary to Show the source from which all such

QUINCY &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPHREYS.

89

Statement of the Case.

income and revenues shall be derived with reference to the.
interest of all parties herein and the expenditures by them
made."
The receivers qualified on May 29, 1884, and took possession
of all lines of railroad which at that date were held or operated by the Wabash Company. On June 9, 1884, the trustees
in the general mortgage appeared and filed their cross-bill, in
which they prayed for the foreclosure of their mortgage and
for the sale of the property, and also asked for the appointment of receivers; but the'court refused to make such appointment. These trustees afterwards filed an amended cross-bill,
and at a still, later date an original bill in one of the state
courts of Missouri, which was removed to the United States
court, and consolidated with the original suit. These bills contained prayers for the foreclosure of the mortgage and the
appointment of receivers.
June 26, 1884, the receivers petitioned the court for advice,
stating that, from the incoming rents and profits of the property, they were unable to pay on the first day of June, 1884,
the interest falling due on certain classes of bonds and dividends on certain specified stock. And they further stated, in
respect of twenty-eight other classes of bonds enumerated 'in
the petition, that the earnings of the lines upon which these
bonds were secured had until this been sufficient to meet the
operating expenses, cost of maintenance and interest payments, but in respect to ten other classes of bonds, of which
the bonds of the Quincy Company constituted one, "that the
earnings of none of the lines or divisions last above described
have at any 'time since their acquisition been sufficient to pay
their operating expenses, the cost of their maintenance, and
interest on the several series of bonds and other obligations
above described, and secured upon each of them respectively
by mortgage or deeds of trust."
The petition was referredto a master, who reported thereon
June 28, 1884, and recommended the entry of an older directing the receivers "from the incoming rents, and profits of said
property, after meeting such other obligations as they have
been directed to discharge by the former orders of this court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

to pay from whatever balance may remain in their hands the
interest, as the same shall from time to 'time mature, upon the
following bonds or other obligations secured by mortgage on
the several lines or divisions" enumerated, whose earnings had
been sufficient to 'pay the interest. The order further provided
"that the receivers herein, until otherwise directed, keep the
accounts of all the earnings and incomes from, as well as the
accounts of all the operating expenses, cost of maintenance,
and taxes upon, the following lines or divisions of said property separately, to wit," and here follow the lines which had
not earned interest, including th6 Quincy Company; "and
that said receivers make quarterly reports thereof, showing
not only the income and expenses of ea-ch of the lines aforesaid, but also the methods by which the incomes and expenses
of said lines were respectively ascertained;" and this report
was confirmed.
On September 20, 1884, the receivers filed a petition for
instructions as to interest due on bonds of the Havana division;
and on October 15, 1884, the court stated, upon the matter
being again brought up, that monfey that belonged to the
underlying mortgages would not be taken to pay interest on
non-earning branches.
December 16, 1884, the Quincy Company filed an intervening petition in which it set forth that interest on its bonds was
in default and "that it has no means, property, or moneys
aside from what is covered by said mortgage, and that it is
without any means of paying said overdue and defaulted
interest " that it believedthat, if default in the payment of
interest should continue, the bondholders would require the
sale of the mortgaged property under the terms of the mortgage; that it had applied to the president of the-Wabash
Company and othdrs of its officers for information, but had
been unable to obtain any, of an intention on the part of the
company, or any one for it, to make such payment; and it
prayed that the company or defendants, or some one of them,
should -pay the interest on the bonds in default July 1, 1884-,
or that such interest. be paid out of the funds of the Wabash
Company in the charge or under the control of the court or

QUINCY &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPHREYS.

91

Statement of the Case.

the receivers, or that the court order that the lease between
the petitioner and the Wabash Company -be transferred to the
St. Joseph and Quincy Railroad Company, which latter company would pay the interest coupons in arrears, and would
either pay or give security to pay the interest coupons about
to mature January 1, 1885, and would assume any and all liabilities resting upon the Wabash Company or to which it was
subject by reason of the existence of or under said lease. This
petition was answered by the receivers and the Cefitral Trust
Company and Cheney, trustee, and April 16, 1885, it was
ordered that whenever within sixty days from that date the
St. Joseph and Quincy Railroad Company should pay to the
trustees on the first mortgage an amount equal to the coupons
on the first mortgage of the Quincy Company due July 1,
1884, and January 1,,1885, in payment of said coupons, and
should assume by proper agreement in writing the liabilities
and obligations to be performed by the lessee under said
lease, then said lease should become assigned and vested in
the St. Joseph Company, freed from any liens or, rights of the
Wabash Company or the trustees under the general mortgage.
On January 8, 1885, the receivers reported the incomes and
earnings from, as well as the operating expenses, cost of
maintenance and taxes of, the Quincy Company, from -May29
to September 30, 1884, showing a deficit-of $1416.8; and on
the second of March, 1885, made a similar report showing a
deficit of $9021.82 from October 1 to December 31, 1884; and
on May 15, 1885, a report showing a total deficit up to February 28, 1885, for nine months, of $20,251.09. On March 20,
1885, the receivers filed a petition setting forth in detail the
earnings and operating expenses of all the branch and leased
lines of the Wabash Company from May 29 to November 30,
1884, and prayed orders with respect to the future operation
of the lines, and concerning the payment of the respective rentals which the Wabash Company had agreed to pay. Upon
this petition the court made an order, April 16, 1885, which
was entitled: "In the matter of the application of the receivers for the cancellation of certain leases." By this, order the

OCTOBER TERMH, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

court directed: (1) "That subdivisional accouits must be paid
separately." (2) "Where any subdivision earns a surplus over
expenses, the rental or subdivisional interest, will be paid to
the extent of the surplus and only to the extent of the surplus." (3) "Where a subdivision earns no surplus, simply pays
operating expenses, no rent or subdivisional interest will be
paid. If the lessor or the subdivisional mortgagee desires
possession or foreclosure, he may proceed at once to assert his
rights. While the court will continue to operate such subdivision until some application be made, yet the right of a lessor or mortgagee whose rent or interest is unpaid to insist
upon possession or foreclosure will be promptly recognized."
(4)"Where a subdivision not only earns no surplus, but fails
to pay operating expenses, as in the St. Joseph and St. Louis
branch, the operation of the subdivision will be continued, but
the extent of that operation will be reduced with an unsparing
though a discriminating hand; that is, if a subdivision does not
earn operating expenses, and receivers are running two trains
a day, then lop one of them off; if they are running one train
a day and still it does not pay, then run one train in two days.
While the court will endeavor to keep that subdivision in operation, it will make the burden of it to the consolidated corporation, and to all the other interests put into that consolidated
corporation, a minimum."
These directions were given in an opinion which was ordered
to stand as the order of the court in respect to the matters
therein referred to. 23 Fed. IRep. 863. July 15', 1885, Gilman
and Bull, trustees under the mortgage of the Quincy Company, petitioned for the possession of its- property. The petition was granted by the court and the receivers were ordered
to surrender and transfer said property to the trustees on or
before Aagust 1, 1885, which was done.
On July 1, 1884, an instalment of interest on the bonds of
the Quincy Company, for $36,120, became due and was- not
paid. On January 1,1885, another like instalment became
due and was not paid. On July 1, 1885, another like instalinent became due, and was not paid. The rent due for the
month of July amounted to $6020, and was not paid. The

QUINCY &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPIHREYS.

93

Statement of the Case.

foregoing instalments aggregated $114,389. The taxes on
the railroad of the Quincy Company for the year 1884
amounted to $16,000, and were not paid by the Wabash Company or the receivers, but by the trustees for the Quincy Company, who also made repairs upon said railioad at an expense
of $15,000.
December 8, 1885, the' trustees Gilman and Bull filed a petition, in which application the Quincy Company united June
12, 1886, by a separate petition. These petitions prayed that
the court would order the receivers to pay to the Quincy Company or the trustees, for the bondholders, the sum of $114,380
for interest, $16,000 for taxes and $15,000 for necessary repairs, "being the rental due on account of the said lease of
the property " of 'the company; and that the court would
decree that said sums "are liens superior and paramount to all
mortgages on all the property of the said Wabash, St. Louis
& Pacific Railway Company." The prayer of the trustee's
petition was confined to the sum of $114,380.
January 6, 1886, a decree was entered foreclosing the mortgages, upon the property of the Wabash Company, known as
the general mortgage and the collateral trust mortgage. The
court found due upon the general mortgage the principal sum
of $17,000,000, and for interest $2,132,753.40, up to December
1, 1885; and upon the collateral trust mortgage the principal
sum of $10,000,000 and $1,109,268.80 interest. In default of
payment of these 'sums the court directed the sale of the mortgaged property, excluding, however, the property of the
Quincy Company. The court decreed that the sale and conveyance of the mortgaged property should not have the effect of
discharging any part of said property from the payment of
claims that had been or might be charged against thesame or the
receivers by the court making the decree or any other Circuit
Court exercising ancillary jurisdiction, or by any other court
to which any of the parties to said decree had been remitted,
and that the property should be subject to.be retaken, and if
necessary, resold, if the sums so charged or to be charged
against it or said receivers shiould not be 'paid within a reasonable time after being required by order\of court. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Appellants.

mortgaged property was thereupon sold but no surplus realized.
The net earnings of the Wabash system from the time the
receivers took possession to the time when they surrendered
the road of the Quincy Company were $1,012,857.39, which
was $3,304,633.61 less than the amount of preferred debt existing when the receivers took possession. The petitions of the
trustees Gilman and Bull and of the Quincy Company were
referred to a ma'ter who reported against the claims therein
set forth. Exceptions were argued before the Circuit Court
and overruled, the report confirmed and the petitions dismissed, whereupon the petitioners brought the case by appeal
to this court. The opinions of Brewer, Circuit Judge, and
Thayer, District Judge, will be found reported in 34: Fed. Rep.
259.
lbr.. D. H. Chamberlain and .Mr. Everett TV. Pattison,for
appellants.
The receivers of the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railway
Company, having taken possession of and operated the railroad of the Quincy, Missouri and Pacific Railroad Company,
from May 27, 1884, to August 1, 1885, must be held to have
adopted the lease under which said railroad was held at the
time of their appointment, and to have made themselves and
the property n their hands liable to the lessor company
according to the terms of such lease. Thomas v. Pemberton,
7 Taunt. 206; flanson v. Stevenson, 1 B. & Ald. 303; In re
Oak Pits Colliery Co., 21 Ch. D. 322, 330, and cases there
cited; In re Iundy Granite Co., L. R. 6 Ch. 462; In re South
Jfensington CoperatveStores, 17 Ch. D. 161; In re Silkstone
& Do'lworth Coal & Iron Co., 17 Ch. D. 158; In re Brown,
Bailey & Dixon, 18 Ch. D. 649; In re BridgewaterEngineer'ng Co., 12 Ch. D. 181; Jlartin v. Black, 9 Paige, 641; 5. C.
38 Am. Dec. 574; In re Brown, 3 Edwd. Ch. 384:; iloyt v.
Stoddard, 2 Allen, 442; Boyce v. Bakewel, 37 Missouri, 492:
Commonwealth v. Franklin Ins. Co., 115 Mass. 278; Woodruf v. Erie Railway Co., 93 N. Y. 609; 3filtenberger v.

QUINCY &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPHREYS.

95

Opinion of the Court.

Logansport Railway, 106 U. S. 286; Vermont & Canada.
Railroad v. Vernont Central Railroad, 50 Vermont, 500;'
Langdon v. "enrnont& Canada Railroad,53 Vermont, 230;
S. C. 54 Vermont, 593; Exp
parte Faxon, 1 Lowell, 404; Fosdick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235; Union Trust Clo. v. Illinois
]idland Railway, 117 U. S. 434:; .Ellis v. Boston, Hfartford
& Erie Railroad, 107 Mass. 1; In re New Jersey & _New
York Railway Co., 29 N. J. Eq. 67.
There are no circumstances in this case which should except
it from this general rule.
.3A.

Edward W. iSheldon filed a brief for appellants.

-.. James Thomson, by leave of court, filed a brief for
appellants.
MAr. Wells H. Blodgett and .Mr. Tlwma IT.Hubbard for
appellees.
MaR. CMEF JUsTIOE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
When the receivers were appointed, the Wabash Company
consisted of a system controlling some thirty-six hundred miles
of road, made up by the consolidation and leasing of many
different railroads, upon nearly every one of which there
existed one or more mortgages. The company was insolvent,
its preferential indebtedness amounted to nearly four and onehalf millions, its credit was gone, and many parts of the
property weie in a wretched condition. The bill was obviously framed upon the theory that an insolvent railroad corporation has a standingin a court of equity to surrender its
property into the custody of the court, to be preserved and
disposed of according to the rights of its various creditors, and,
in the meantime, operated in the public interest. The relief
sought was predicated upon the view that those rights were
not changed by the application, and that the proceeding was
in the interest of each and all of them as such interest might
appear.: The bill is characterized by one of the counsel as
"without precedent." We are not called upon to inquire as

OCTOBER TERiM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

to how that may be, but we readily agree that the concession
to a mortgagor company of the power through its own act to
displace vested liens by unsecured claims is dangerous in the
extreme. But no such concession was made here. On the
contrary, from the beginning,, the court, by repeated directions
and orders, fully recognized the fact that none of the numerous defendants had consented that their rights, whatever they
might be, should be subordinated to those of others to which
they were superior, and that no defendant should be subjected
to loss of priority because necessarily brought into association
with others by the bill.
In the order of appointment, the receivers were directed to
pay out of the income that should come into their hands
rental which had accrued or which might accrue upon all complainant's leased lines, but to keep accounts showing the source
of income and revenue with reference to expenditure. Immediately, and within a month thereafter, the receivers called
the attention of the court to the fact that the earnings of ten
enumerated lines or divisions had not at any time since their
acquisition been sufficient to pay their operating expenses, the
cost of their maintenance and interest on the bonds and other
obligations secured upon each of them, while certain others
had; and by the confirmation of the master's report, which
w,as made on the 28th of June, 1881, the court, adopting its
recommendations, directed that the receivers should pay
interest on the bonds or obligations secured on the several
paying enumerated lines or divisions, from whatever balance
of income might remain in their hands after meeting other
obligations; and that an account should be kept of the earnings and incomes from, as well as the accounts of all the operating expenses, cost of maintenance and taxes upon, certain
other enumerated lines or divisions, including that of the
petitioner. This was followed by the declaration of the court
that the earnings of the branches which earned their interest
were not to be taken to pay interest on non-earning branches,
but that the concerns which had not earned running expenses
would be permitted to collapse. Then came the intervening
petition of the appellant company for a transfer of the lease,

QUINCY &c. RAILROAD CO. v. IIUMPHREYS.

91

Opinion of the Court.

which petition was granted; but the order of court was not
availed of or acted upon by petitioner.
The order -of April 16, 1885, reiterated the position taken
by the court, and specifically pointed out that where there
was no income, rental claims would not be paid.
The petitioners, however, after taking possession of their
road, asked the court to decree, not the allowance of their
rental claims, and those for repairs, and taxes paid, as unsecured indebtedness, but a lien in their favor for those amounts
superior and paramount to the mortgages on the property of
the Wabash Company. They sought, in other words, to have
these claims charged upon the corpus of the property in preference to subsisting contract liens. And they based this contention upon the proposition that the receivers had adopted
the lease and made themselves, and the property in their
hands, liable according to its terms.
It is not asserted that these receivers became the assignees
of the unexpired term of the leasehold estate with the right
to dispose of it, but it is claimed that because they took possession of the railroad of the Quincy Company and held and
operated it until August 1, 1885, they became liable to the
extent of the rental up to that time. But the receivers were
not statutory receivers, nor did they occupy identically the
same position as assignees in bankruptcy or insolvency, and
the like. They were ministerial officers appointed by the
Court of Chancery to take possession Of and preserve pendente
lite the fund or property in. litigation; mere custodians, coming within the rule stated in Chicago Union Bank v. Kansas
City Bank, 136 U. S. 223, 236, where this court said: "A
receiver derives his authority from the act of the court
appointing him, and not from the act of the parties at
whose suggestion or by whose consent he is appointed; and
the utmost effect of his appointment is to put the property
from that time into his custody as an officer of the court, for
the benefit of the party ultimately proved to be entitled, bit
not to change the title, or even the right of possession in the
property."
As observed in relation to such a receiver, by the Supreme
VOL. CXLV-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Court of Maryland, in Gaitherv. Stockbridge, 67 Maryland,
222, 224, cited by counsel for appellee: "It is manifest that
the scope of his duties and powers are very much more
restricted than those of an assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency. In the case of an assignee in bankruptcy, the law
casts upon such assignee the legal title to the unexpired term
of the lease, and he thus becomes assignee of the term by
operation of law, unless, from prudential considerations, he
elects to reject the term as being without benefit to the
creditors. But not so in the case of receivers, unless it be, as
in New York, and some of the other States, where, by statute,
a certain class of receivers are invested -with the insolvent's
estate, and with powers very similar to those vested in an
assignee in bankruptcy. Booth v. ClarAk, 17 How. 331. The
ordinary chantery receiver, such as we have in this case, is
clothed with no estate in the property, but is a mere custodian
of it for the court; and, by special authority, may become an
officer of the court to effect a sale of the property, if that be
deemed necessary for the benefit of the parties concerned. If
the order of the court, under which the receiver acts, embraces
the leasehold estate, it becomes his duty, of course, to take
possession of it. But he does not, b taking such possession,
become assignee of the term, in any proper sense of the word.
He holds that, as he would hold any other personal property
involved, for and as the hand of the court, and not as assignee
of the term."
But appellants insist that without regard to privity of estate
or privity of contract, receivers in chancery are liable, not for
a reasonable rental" value during the occupancy of leased
property committed to their charge by order of court, but for
rental according to the covenants of the leas6s whenever there
are unequivocal acts of use and control of such property;
and that they thus adopt the leases and become bound by
their terms so long as such use and control continue. It is
said that this is settled doctrine, and that whether receivers
take as statutory or common law or quasi or equitable
assignees ; whether the title is in them, or the estate, or the.
whole estate, has vested in them, or whether they hold as

QUINCY &c. RAILROAD CO. v. HUMPHREYS.

99

Opinion of the Court.

mere custodians for the court, is immaterial; that they are
put to an election to assume or to reject the leases, and if
they elect to avail themselves of them, they are bound to
respond according to their terms. This position ignores any
distinction between those who take by operation of law and
those who do not, but inasmuch as it confessedly, requires the
application of the same, rule as in the case of statutory receivers, assignees, and liquidators, this branch of the controversy may be disposed of on appellants' own ground.
That rule is thus stated in Mr. Platt's work on Leases, (vol.
2, p. 435,) in reference to assignees in bankruptcy: "A reasonable time was allowed the assignees to ascertain the value
of the lease before they made their election; for which purpose they might have it valued, or put up for sale, without
danger of such act being deemed'an acceptance. If, however,
they accepted a bidding, or dealt with the estate as their own, or
used it in a manner injurious to the persons otherwise entitled,
they were not within this protection."
The principle that
such assignees shall not be held, unless by their consent, to
take what will charge the estate with a burden, has been
often applied, by this court; Glenny v. _Langdon, 98 U. S. 20;
American -File Co. v. Garrett, 110 U. S. 288; Sparhalwh v.
Yerkes, 142 U. S. 1; and also by the state courts, as in
.Martin v. Black, 9 Paige, 641, by Chancellor Walworth; in
Cormfmonwealth v. _Franklin Insurance, Co., i15 Mass. 278, by
Judge Endicott; in Berry v. Gillis, 17 N. H. 9, by Chief
Justice Parker ; and in many other cases.
It is thus expouiided in respect of official liquidators under
the English. "Companies Act," by Lord Justice Lindley, in
In re Oak Pits Colliery Co., 21 Ch. D. 322, 330:
"(1) If the liquidator has retained, possession for the purposes of th6 winding up, or if he has used the property for
carrying on the company's business, or has kept the property
in order to sell it or to do the best he can with it, the landlord will be allowed to distrain for rent 'whichhas become due
since the winding up. ., . . (2) But if he has kept possession by arrangement with the landlord and for his benefit as
well as for the benefit of the company, and there is no agree-

100

OCTOBER TERM; ยฃ891.
Opinion of the Court.

ment with the liquidator that he shall pay rent, the landlord
is not allowed to distrain. . . . When the. liquidator
retains the property for the purpose of advantageously disposing of it, or when he continues to use it, the rent .of it
ought to be regarded as a debt contracted for the purpose of
winding up the company, and ought to be paid in full like
any other debt or expense properly incurred by the liquidator
for the same purpose, and in such a case it appears to us that
the rent for the whole period during which the property is so
retaihed or used ought to be paid in full without reference to
the amount which could be realized by a distress. . . . ]But
no authority has yet gone the length of deciding that a landlord is entitled to distrain for or be paid in full rent accruing since the commencement of the winding up, wher6 the
liquidator has done nothing except abstain from trying to get
rid of the property which the company holds as lessee. If the
landlord hAd endeavored to re6nter and the liquidator had
objected, the case might be different, but having regard to the
provisions of the Companies Act of 1862, we are of opinion
that in the case now supposed the landlord must rely on his
right, if any, to reenter and prove for the arrears due to him,
and that he is not entitled to anything more."
In Sunfower Oil Company v. Tilson, 142 U. S. 313, 322,
where an oil company contracted with a railway company to
purchase certain rolling stock and lease the same to the railway company at a specified rental, the latter agreeing to
purchase and pay for it in cash on or before a given date, or
if it should be unable to do so to turn it over to the oil company at the expiration of the contract in good order and condition, and the railway company became insolvent and its
mortgage bondholders instituted proceedings to foreclose and
had a receiver appointed, it was said: "The receiver did not
simply by virtue of his appointment become liable upon the
covenants and agreements of the railway.company. High on
Receivers, ยง 273; .Hoyt v. Stodda 'd, 2 Allen, 442. Upon
taking possession of the property, he was entitled to a reasonable time to elect Whether he would adopt this contract and
make it his own, or whether he would insist upon the inability

QUINCY &c. RAILROAD 00. v. HUMPHREYS.

101

Opinion of the Court.
of the company to pay, and return the property in good order
and condition, paying, of course, the stipulated rental for it so
long as he used it." As between the mortgagees invoking the
interposition of the court and the oil company, the agreed
rental was held to be the proper payment to be made for
the use of the rolling stock under the particular, contract in
question.
Tested by this rule, we are of opinion that these receivers
did not become bound by an .election or by reason of any act
of their own or by any order of the court.
The court did not bind itself or its receivers eo instanti by
the mere act of taking possession. Reasonable time. had
necessarily to be taken to ascertain the situation of affairs.
The Quincy Company, as a quasi public corporation, operating a public highway, was under a public duty to keep up and
maintain its railroad as a going concern, as was the Wabash
Company under the contract between them, but the latter had
become ufiable to perform the public service for which it had
been endowed with its faculties and franchises, and which it
had assumed to discharge as between it and the other company. Its operation could only be continued under the receivers, whose action in that respect cannot be adjudged to
have been dictated by the idea of keeping the property. in
order to sell it, or using it to the advantage of the creditors,
or doing otherwise than "abstain from trying to get rid of
the property." Clearly this was no case of the employment
of the property, of another for one's own. benefit. Within a
month the receivers applied to the- court for instructions,
distinctly setting forth that there was no income wherewith
to pay the rental in question, and the order of court, entered
at once, proceeded upon the theory.that they were not to be
bound by the rental prescribed.
Nor was there any resistance by the receivers or impediment
ihterposed by them to the reentry of the Quincy Company.
The receivers did not so remain in possession, nor were they
authorized by the court to so remain, as to render the lessor
undble itself to resume possession. The lease gave the Quincy
Company the option to reenter, and put an end to it, upon de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

fault in payment of rental continued for thirty days. Default
in fact did not occur until Jtuly 1, 1884, but upon the face of
. the bill the utter inability of the Wabash Company to pay rent
appeared, and under the circumstances it is unreasonable to
suppose that if appellants had applied to the Circuit Court for
possession of the property earlier than they did, the court, in
view of the state of case disclosed by the record, would have
declined to hand it over. Such application was made December 16, 1884, and an order granted accordingly, but not availed
of by the Quincy Company. Subsequently, on a renewed
application, the company retook its road, freed from any
liability for the enormous preferential indebtedness of the
Wabash Company, and with its public duty discharged up to
that time by the receivers at a loss of more than $20,000.
The lease had not theretofore been cancelled by the court,
* doubtless because it was considered that that ought not to be
done without the assent of the lessor,, but the court said:
"The right of a le sor or mortgagee, whose rent or interest.
is unpaid, to insist upon possession or foreclosu're will be
promptly recognized." This was as late as April 16, 1885, but
it was consistent with the order of June 28, 1884, and the
position of the court throughout. Indeed, there can be no
pretence that the Quincy Company or its trustees were encouraged to remain inactive in reliance on payment of rental
under order of court unless the earnings of their road justified
it.
Our conclusion is that the receivers, as such, did not become
so committed to the terms of the lease as by reason thereof to
be subjected to an obligation requiring the rental to be paid
out of the property of the Wabash Company in preference to
,the payment of the mortgagees of that property. Whether
that rental might be preferred in payment to the unsecured
debts if ,there had been any equity in. the mortgaged premises.
is a question not arising for decision.
If the receivers were not bound as having become virtually
assignees of the lease or by. reason of any acts of their own or
orders of the court, were the petitioners entitled to the relief
they prayed upon any ground heretofore recognized as justify-

QUINCY &c. RAJLROAD CO. v. HUTAPHREYS.

103

Opinion of the Court.

ing such imposition upon the corpus of the property in priority
to the claims of lien creditors?
In .Aorgan's Company v. Texas Central Railway, 137
U. S. 171, 197, we said that the doctrine of .Fosdick v. Schall,
99 U. S. 235, is: ".That a court of equity may make it a condition of the issue of an order for the appoinment of a
receiver, that certain outstanding debts of the company shall
be paid from the income that may.be collected by the receiver
or from the proceeds of sales;. that the property being in the
hands of the court for administration as a trust fund for the
payment of incumbrances, the court, in putting it in condi.tion for sale, may, if needed, recognize the claims of material
men and laborers, and some few others of similar nature,
accruing for a brief period prior to its intervention, where
current earnings have been used by the company to pay mortgage debt or improve the property, instead of to pay current
expenses, under circumstances raising an equity, for their
restoration; as for instance where the company being insolvent and in default is allowed by* the mortgage bondholders
to remain in possession and operate the road long after that
default has become notorious, or where the company has
been suddenly deprived of the control of its pr6perty, and the
pursuit of any other course might lead to cessation of operation. .Miltenberger v. Logansport Railway Co., 106 U. S.
286, 311, 312. If the officers of the company, remarked Mr.
Chief Justice Waite, in Fosdick v. Schall, 'give to one class
of creditors that which properly belongs to another, the court
may, upon an adjustment of the accounts, so use the income
which comes into its own hands as, if practicable, to restore
the parties to their original equitable rights. . . . Whatever is done, therefore, must be with a view to a restoration
by the.mortgage creditors of that which they have thus inequitably obtained. It follows that if there ha been in reality
no diversion there can be no restoration; and that the amount
of restoration shall be made to. depend upon the amount of
diversion.' Burnham v. Bowen, 111 U. S. 776; Union Trust
Co. v. illinois .fidland Co., 117 U. S. 4342'
The immense floating debt for supplies and other prefer

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ential claims here precludes the inference that there was
any such diversion of earnings applicable to the payment
of rental, and the priority asked cannot be rested on that
ground.
In Wallace v. Loomis, 97 U. S. 146, 162, it was said by
Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court: "The power of
a court of equity to appoint managing receivers of such property as a railroad, when taken under its charge as a trust
fund for the paymen.t of incumbrances, and to authorize such
receivers to raise money necessary for the .preservation and
management of the property, and make the same chargeable
as a lien thereon for its repayment, cannot, at this day, be
seriously disputed. It is a part of that jurisdiction, always
exercised by the court, by which it is its duty to protect and
preserve the trust funds in its hands. It is, undoubtedly, a
power to be exercised with great caution; and, if possible,
with the consent or acquiescence of the parties interested in
the fund."
But here this rental was certainly not an expense originated
in the process of administration by tlie court, and the road
was surrendered as soon as the lessor would take it. INor did
the mortgagees consent to have the claim charged upon the
corpus of the property in preference to their mortgages. The
case does not come within ]fneelancd v. American -Loan'nd
Trust Co., 136 U. S. 89; .. filtenberger v. Logasport .Railway
Co., 106 U. S. 286, 313; or any other of the authorities cited.
'We do not discover any equitable ground upon which appellants are entitled to a preference in the distribution of the
proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property. The cost of
the maintenance of the Quincy road by the receivers exceeded
its total earnings; and the net earnings of the whole Wabash
system, before the Quincy Company retook its road, did not
amount to one-quarter of the amount of preferred debt existing when the receivers were appointed. The property was
surrendered to it freed from any charge for that debt, to the
payment of which it contributed nothing. The action of the
court in making the appointment of receivers on the application of the mortgagor cannot be successfully challenged

