OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tives to accept, or of Castleman to pay, the bonds of the latter
.n Confederate money or Virginia bank notes - to establish
acquiescence upon their part, in what was done by the personal representatives, and to preclude any interference in their
behalf by a court of equity. 1 Story'§ Eq. Jur. § 529; 2 Id.
§§ 1520, 1540; 2 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. §§ 817, 818, 819, and
authorities cited under each section; Kerr on Fraud and Mistake, 298 to 305.
The decree is reversed, and the causeis remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.

CLAY CENTER v. FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM TIlE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 339.

Submitted April 26, 1892. -Decided May 2, 1892.

When, in an action to recover an instalment of rent, the judgment below is
for less than $5000, this court is without appellate jurisdiction although
the judgment involved the existence and validity of the'contract of lease,
and thus indirectly an amount in excess of the jurisdictional limit.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Atr. J. B. Johnson, Ir. John AXartin -Mr. F. B. Dawes
and Mr. -enry Keeler for appellant.
.Mr. T. H. Rossington, .r. Charles Blood Smith and 2..
-HerbertB. Turner for appellee.
MR. CmEF JUSTICE FULLEE delivered the opinion of

the

court.

This was a suit to recover of the city of Clay Center two
instalments of hydrant rental for eighteen hundred and fifty
dollars each, with interest. These rentals were claimed to be

CLAY CENTER v. FARMERS' LOA N &c. CO.

225

Opinion of the Court.

due under an alleged contract in respect of the erection of
water-works, between the city and one Bonebrake and a
Water-works company, his assignee and successor, and to be
payable under said contract to the Farmers' Loan and Trust
Company, trustee in a trust deed to secure bonds issued by the
Water-works company for the purpose of borrowing money
to complete the construction of the works.
The bill prayed that the city be decreed to have contracted
with the Trust Company to pay directly to it so much of the
hydrant rental as might be necessary to pay the interest on
the bonds, and to pay the two instalments then due with interest. The decree sustained the cofitract and the liability to
pay the Trust Company directly and awarded recovery to the
amount of $41042.65. " This was all that could be recovered in
this suit, if the contract were valid and binding as found. If
the Circuit Courb had arrived at the contrary conclusion on
that point, this was'all that in this suit complainant could
have lost; and as in the latter contingency complainant could
not have brought the case here, so defendant cannot, because
the decree, which allowed all that was claimed, is for less than
the jurisdictional amount. The value qf the matter in dispute
was the accrued rental and interest, and although the determination that such rental was due and should be paid to the
trustee involved the existence and validity of the contract, yet
causes of'action for hydrant rental which had not accrued but
might subsequently accrue cannot be availed of to make out
jurisdiction of the case by this court upon appeal. 2Wew England Mortgage Security Co. v. Gay, ante 123.,
The appeal is
Dismissedfor want ofjurisdiction.
VOL. CXLv-15

