OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

"WASHINGTONT v. OPIE.
APPEAL

FROM THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 282. Argued April 8,11, 1892.-Decided May 2, 1892.

Payments of bonds secured by.a mortgage of real estate in Virginia, made
in that State during the civil war to t6ce personal representatives of the
mortgagee who had deceased, partly in Confederate notes and partly in
Virginia bank notes issued prior to the war, are held to have been made
and received in good faith, and the transactions to have been known
to the children of the deceased, and to have been accepted and acquiesced in by them for so long a time as to preclude any interference
in their behalf by a court of equity.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr.3Marshall -McCormick and .3fr. R. T. Barton for appellants.
.21r. Robert White for R. L. Opie, John N. Opie and Mary
Meade, appellees.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

Heirome L. Opie, by deed dated January 1, 1856, conveyed
to Henry W. Castleman two tracts of land in Jefferson County,
then in Virginia, now in West Virginia - one tract containing 596 acres and the other '419 acres -for
the price of
$41,733.661, of which $10,000 was paid at the time in cash,
and for the remainder the grantee gave his bonds, or single
bills, bearing interest from date and payable annually; two
for $5000 each, payable, respectively, on the first days of
January, 1857 and 1858, and six for 83622.271 each, payable
respectively on the first days of January, 1859, 1860, 1861,
1862, 1863, and 1864. These bonds were secured by a deed of
trust to Robert Y. Conrad, which was duly acknowledged by
Castleman and recorded January 2, 1856.
When this transaction occurred both Opie and Castleman

WASHI NGTON v. OPIE.
Opinion of the Court.

resided in Jefferson County. But shortly afterwards Opie
removed with his family to Staunton, in Augusta County, Virginia, where he died in June, 1862, leaving him surviving his
wife, lannie S. Opie, and four children, the present appellee,
H1. L. Opie; Thomas Opie, born in February, 1840; Mary
Opie, born January 25, 1842; and John N. Opie, born March
14, 1844. The record does not show the age of the appellee,
but he was old enough to have served in the Confederate
army during the entire period of the -late civil war. The
widow and Thomas Opie qualified as the personal representatives of the decedent.
The bonds maturing in January, 1857, 1858, 1859 and 1860,
principal and interest, as well as the interest due on all the
others up to January 1, 1861, were paid to Heirome L. Opie
in his lifetime; presumably, in lawful money. In the fall of
1862 Castleman paid to his personal representatives the entire amount of the bonds maturing in 1861 and 1862. This
payment was made at Staunton in what was known as Confederate treasury notes, which, at the time, constituted the
principal, if not the only, circulating medium in that locality,
and passed current in the county where Castleman resided.
The bonds so paid were surrendered to Castleman.
On the 1st of February, 1863, and 4th of January, 1864,
respectively, Castleman paid, through others, to the personal
representatives of Opie the full amount of the bonds falling
due in those years. The payments were made in what was
commonly called Virginia money, that is, Virginia bank nates
issued prior to the civil war. Each bond so paid was delivered to Castleman, or to his agent, at the time of payment.
When the last bond, the one maturing in 1864, was paid,
the personal representatives of Opie executed and delivered to
Castleman's agent, through whom it was paid, a written order
addressed to the trustee in the deed of 1856, directing the
release of the lien created by that instrument. This order
having been presented to the trustee, he made his deed of
September 7,1865, (which was duly acknowledged the same
day,) referring to the deed of 1856, and the bonds secured by
it, and declaring: "And whereas said Castleman hath pro-

OCTOBER TERA", 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

duced to said Conrad the last one of said bonds, paid and
cancelled, and also a paper signed by Thomas Opie, administrator, and N. S. Opie, administratrix, of said Heirome L.
Opie, (who has deceased,) acknowledging the payment in full
of all said purchase-money and requesting a release of said
deed of trust: Now, in consideration of the premises, the
said Robert Y. Conrad doth release unto the said Henry W.
Castleman all his, said Conrad's, claim upon the said tracts
of land by virtue of said deed of trust." This deed of release
was recorded Feblruary 10, 1871.
The plaintiff, in his deposition, given in his own behalf, referring to the payment of the bonds, said: "I first learned of their
payment shortly after they were made. I received my first
information from the personal representatives of my father's
estate. . . . I know that three of the bonds were paid in
Confederate money because Castleman told me so, as did also
the personal representatives of my father's estate. The payment made-in 1864 was made by Mr. Sinclair [for Castleman]
in Virginia bank notes. I know this because I got a portion
of them after the war. . . . The Confederate money paid
by Castleman was put into Confederate bonds, which I saw
afterwards. The Virginia money was held until after the
war and divided between the heirs, but it was worthless, the
Virginia banks having all their money in Confederate bonds,
and were so compelled by law. Quite a number of bank
notes were returned to Castleman by my mother after the
war. I saw them mailed to Castleman. The whole was an
entire loss to the distributees of my father's estate."
.The present suit was brought by the appellee, H. L. Opie,
December 4, 1880, the original defendants being Castleman,
Nannie S. Opie, Thomas Opie, John N. Opie and Mary
Meade, formerly Mary Opie. Castleman answered, but the
bill was taken for confessed as to the other defendants. The
executors of Conrad were made parties defendant, and an
order recites that they appeared and answered, but the record
does not contain their answers.
Subsequently, September 1, 1885, the plaintiff filed a second
bill of complaint, stating more fully his cause of action. The

WASHINGTON v: OPIE.
Opinion of the Court.

material allegations of the amended bill are: That the obtaining of said bills or bonds from the personal representatives of
Heirome L. Opie was in execution of a fraudtilent scheme
upon the part of Castleman to pay them off with "worthless
or next to worthless Confederate.money;" that by appealing
to the fears of the personal representatives, and by persuasion
and with the assistance of one or more persons employed to
aid him in executing his fraudulent purposes, he, Castleman,
induced them to deliver to him the said bills, and "to receive
therefor nothing but said worthless Confederate money to a
very large amount -that is, to an amount large enough to
cover the total amount of said single bills and interest then
unpaid - and passed to said iaunie S. and Thomas such Confederate money at the nominal amount appearing upon the
face of the notes;" that nothing was paid by him after the
death of his grantor, "except such worthless Confederate
money;" that he fraudulently procured the writing signed by
the personal representatives, acknowledging the payment of
said bills, and requesting the release of the deed of trust;
that at the time of said transaction John N. Opie was an
infapt; that said deferred payments on the land purchased by
Castleman became, by reason of his acts, a total loss to the
estate of Heirome L. Opie; that the personal representatives
have never made a settlement of their accounts, nor accounted
to the distributees of the estate for any part of said unpaid
purchase-money or bonds; that the estate was entirely solvent; and that the plaintiff many years ago removed to Kentucky, and did not know until recently of the release of the
deed of trust, and could not have had constructive notice of it
until February 10, 1871, and in fact did not until recently
before this suit know of it, or of the condition of affairs connected with the bonds given by Castleman. The bill also
alleges: ."Your orator knows that even if he could do so it
would be wrong for him to make said Nlannie S. and Thomas
Opie responsible for said unpaid purchase-money bonds under
the circumstances of the case, for he feels perfectly satisfied
that they were deceived and defrauded by said Castleman in
the premises. But he does charge that they had no right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

receive said Confederate money in payment of said bonds or
otherwise for them or to give up said bonds to said Castleman,
and said Castleman has no right to have them or treat them.

as paid.

Said Castleman has since his said purchasd all the

while been possessed of and enjoyed the said valuable property
for which he has not honestly paid, and so much of said purchase-money as was not paid dollar for dollar by said Castleman has been thus far a total loss to the estate of said Heirome L. Opie and his heirs at law."
The principal relief asked was that Castleman be required
to pay "in good, lawful money so much of said purchasemoney, single bills and interest thereon, as has not been paid
in good, lawful money," and that in default thereof a trustee
be appointed by the court, to sell the real estate to pay off the
price "in good and lawful money" to the legal representatives or distributees of Heirome L. Opie, according to their
respective rights, including the widow.
Castleman demurred to the bill as insufficient in law, and,
also, filed an answer denying all the material allegations of
the bill. Answers were also filed by Mrs. Meade and John
N. Opie, in which they pray that the release of the deed of
trust be set aside. But they do not file cross-bills, or make
any direct issue, in that mode, with Castleman.
It should be stated in this&connection that by deed executed
by Castleman March the 22d, 1878, and which was duly recoided, a part of the lands purchased by him from Heirome
L. Opie in 1856 was conveyed in trust to secure a debt due by
bond to the executor of E. I. Smith, which, on the 1st of
August, 1887, amounted, principal and interest, to $5706.67.
This debt originated in 1863, the Virginia bank notes paid in
that year to Opie's personal representatives having been borrowed by Castleman from Smith.
By an interlocutory decree, passed September 30, 1887,
32 Fed. Rep. 511, it was adjudged that the payments made by
Castleman of the above bonds, due in 1861, 1862, 1863 and
186 , -were illegal and void, and that the release. of the deed
of. trust by Conrad was of no effect; but, that, inasmuch as
the widow and Thomas Opie acquiesced in and consented to

WASHINGTON v. OPIE.
Opinion of the Court.

such payment, the bonds were discharged to the extebt of
their interests; and, that with respect to the plaintiff, Mary
M eade and John N. Opie, they were, each, entitled to receive
from Castleman (regarding the original interest of the widow
as one-third) one-fourth of two-thirds of the original amount
of said bonds, principal and interest; and that the deed of
trust remained as a valid security for their claims. The.
release, by Conrad, of the deed of trust was set'aside and
declared to be of no effect as to the interests of the plaintiff,
John N. Opie and Mary Meade. By the final decree it was
found and adjudged that -the amount due April 16, 1888, to
the plaintiff, Mary Meade and John N. Opie, each, was
6369.15. The 'lands in question were ordered to be sold in
satisfaction of those claims, which were given by the decree
priority over all other debts against Castleman's estate including even that due to Smith's estate.
The allegation, in the bill, that the personal representatives
of Opie were induced by fear or persuasion to accept Confederate money in payment of Castleman's bonds falling due in
1861 and 1862, and Virginia bank notes in payment of those
falling due in 1863 and 1864, is unsupported by the evidence.
Nor is there any proof of fraud committed by Castleman, unless
it was a fraud upon his part to pay his bonds in the only kind
of money that was current or in general use in the locality
where he and they, at the time of payment resided. Castleman testified that the personal representatives of Opie accepted
Confederate notes in payment of the bonds of 1861 and 1862.
without the slightest hesitation or objection, and on the occasion of that paymdnt expressed their willingness to accept
payment, in like money, of the bonds of 1863 and 1864; but
that shortly, before the maturity of the bond of 1863 he was
notified by them to make payment in Virginia bank notes.
And this demand was complied with by him. The bond of
1863 was paid in money of that kind, and was surrendered by
the personal representatives. Sinclair,, through whom the
bond of 1864 was paid, testifies that no 6bjection was made
by either of the 'personal representatives to payment in Virginia bank notes, and that the written order for the release of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the tOust deed was prepared and delivered to him for Castleman by Thomas Opie himself. If the statements of Castleman
and Sinclair, upon these points, were not strictly in accordance
with the truth, the contrary could have been pioven by the
personal representatives. But their depositions were not
taken. The plaintiff gave notice to take their depositions in
Baltimore, and Castleman: attended, with counsel, at the time
and place designated in the notice. But neither the plaintiff
nor his counsel, appeared, and the depositions were never
taken. No reason is suggested why they were not taken..
It must, therefore, be taken as conclusively established that
the personal representatives of Opie voluntarily accepted payment of the bonds of 1861 and 1862 in Confederate money,
and that they demanded and received Virginia bank notes in
discharge of the bonds of 1863 and 1864.
But this is not all. Castleman testified that the plaintiff was
present when the bonds of 1861 and 1862 were paid in Confederate notes, and counted out the money for his mother. The
plaintiff testifies that he was not present at any of the payments. But the plaintiff admits that he learned, from the
representatives of his father, of the payments of 1862 and
1863, shortly after they were made, and that after the war
the Virginia bank notes were divided among the heirs, he
receiving his portion of them. It is absolutely certain, from
the evidence, that the plaintiff knew at least fifteen years prior
to the commencement of this action, that Castleman's bonds,
falling due in.1861, 1862, 1863, and 1864, were paid off, during
the war, partly in Confederate money and partly in Virginia
bank notes. And it cannot be doubted that these facts were
known, during the whole of the same period, to Mary Opie,
who reached her majority in January, 1863, and to John N.
Opie, who reached his majority in March, 1865. If this were
not so, they would have testified as witnesses, and stated the
contrary.
Under such circumstances, is the plaintiff entitled to the aid
of a court of equity as against the estate of Castleman ? Avowing his purpose not to hold the personal representatives of his
father's estate responsible, for having accepted Confederate

WASHINGTONT v. OPIE.
Opinion of the Court.

money and Virginia bank notes in discharge of Castleman's
bonds, and for having directed the release of the trust deed
given to secure those bonds, can he be heard to say that these
settlements, some of the fruits of which he and his codistributees enjoyed, and of which he had full knowledge for at least
fifteen years prior to the commencement of this action, ought
not to have been male and should be now disregarded?.
These questions can be answered only in one way in a court
of equity.
The present case in some of its features is not unlike that of
Glasgow v. Lise, 117 U. S. 327, 334. The facts in that case
were these: Lipse's executors having authority to dispose of
the real property of the testator, who died in Virginia, sold
certain lands in that State to Spears in 1860. One of the payments fell due in October, 1861, another in October, 1862. The
bonds were paid in a check on a Virginia bank, which was deposited in that bank by the resident executor who received it.
Against that deposit the executor drew his checks, which were
paid in Confederate notes. The principal question in the case
was whether -the debtor was discharged from liability to pay
his bonds in lawful money of the United States. This court,
after referring to the doctrine declared by the Court of Appeals of Virginia, (Pattesonv. Bondurant, 30 Gratt. 94,) that
a debtor who pays to an executor in depreciated currency a
debt payable in gold or its equivalent, knowing at 'the time
that the currency is not needed for the payment of debts or
legacies, or other uses of the estate, and that the safety of the
debt does not require its collection, may also be charged as a
participant in the devastavit, said: "The present case does not
come under the doctrine. It falls within the class where, for
debts payable in lawful money, the depreciated currency of
the country where they were contracted and the executor resides can be used at its face value in payment of legacies, and,
therefore, may be accepted by him -without a breach of trust.
The notes received had in October, 1862, to a great extent,
superseded the use of coin, and became the principal currency
of the Confederate States. All business transactions there
were had with reference to them. They were a standard of

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

value, according to which contracts were made and discharged.
Having, therefore, an exchangeable value, they were sought
for by residents within the Confedeit acy:" In reference to the
issue as to whether the legatees were estopped to question the
action of the executor, the court said: "The resident executor
there, however, hesitated to accept them [Confederate notes] in
payment of the last bond of Spears, which, being made in
October, 1860, must be coniidered as payable in lawful money,
and he consulted the wishes of legatees in Virginia, among
whom the greater part of the money was to be distributed.
They desired him to take the notes, and received them in dis-"
charge of their distributive shares. So far as those legatees
are concerned their approval of his action was shown by their
expressed wishes, and their acceptance of the notes. They, at
least, are tstopped from questioning the propriety of'his conduct."
The plaintiff alleges, in his bill, that his father's estate was
perfectly solvent; in nowise involved in debt. The only persons, therefore, interested in the collection of Castleman's bonds
were the widow and the children of Heirome L. Opie. The
court below correctly held that the widow and Thomas Opie
were concluded, as to their interests, by the voluntary acceptance of Confederate money and Virginia bank paper in discharge of Castleman's obligations. Upon every principle of
justice, the plaintiff is equally concluded by his knowledge
shortly after, if not at the time of, the surrender to Castleman
of the bonds of'1861 and 1862, that they were paid in Confederate notes; by his voluntary acceptance of his part of the
Virginia bank notes paid by Castleman in discharge of the
bonds of 1863 and 1864; and by his failure, for more than fifteen years, to assail, in some direct legal mode, the validity and
good faith of the settlements with Castleman. The reason
given by the plaintiff why he was so long silent is, that he removed from Virginia to Kentucky in 1873, and from the close
of the civil war up to the fall of 1880 was not, although himself a lawyer, financially able to bring this suit or to carry it
on. We cannot regard this as a sufficient excuse for his inaction, even if it had been competent for him, after his accept-

. WASHINGTON v. OPIE.
Opinion of the Court.

ance of a part of the Virginia bank notes paid by Castleman,
to have questioned the action of the personal representatives'.
With respect to the interests of the two distributees, who
were not of full 'age when Castleman paid the bonds of 1861
and 1862, it is only necessary to say that Mrs. Meade had
reached her majority when Castleman made his last payment,
and both were of full age when, after the war, the Virginia
bank notes received from Castleman were divided among the
distributees. We cannot suppose, from the evidence, that they.
were ignorant of the settlements made by the personal representatives with Castleman. So far as the record discloses, no
fraud was practised upon them; nothing was concealed from
them. When the Confederacy fell, Confederate notes and
Virgiiia bank notes, based upon Confederate bonds, became, of
course, of no value. Then it was that Mrs. Opie sent back, by
mail, to Castleman, some of the bank notes paid by him; those,
perhaps, which she had retained for herself. At that time, if
not before, all the facts were necessarily known to Mrs. M eade
and John N. Opie, as they were known to the plaintiff. If
the plaintiff, Mrs. Meade-and John N. Opie, have determined
not to hold their mother and brother liable for having voluntarily received payment from Castleman in the only currency
used in the locality where all the parties resided, Castleman's
estate, he not being chargeable with fraud ought to be equally
exempt from liability.
According to the decided preponderance of eiidence, the
plaintiff, Mrs. Meade and John N. Opie, during 'the entire
period from the close of the war until the institution of this
suit, acted as if they did not intend,'by legal proceedings. to
question the validity of the settlements made with Castleman.
And they so acted with full knowledge, or with ample opportunity to acquire knowledge, of all the material facts affecting
their rights. By their long silence, and their unreasonable
delay in commencing proceedings for relief, they have forfeited
whatever right they had to invoke the aid of a court of equity.
What they did and what they failed to do is sufficientindependently of any statute of limitations, and apart from
any question as to the legal right of the personal representa-

