OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Syllabus.

was one of affirmance merely. We have recently had occasion to consider the distinction betveen such a judgmqnt and
the original sentence, in Schwab v. Berggren and Fielden v.
Illinois, 143 U. S. 442, 452. It was ruled in those cases that
the presence of defendants condemned to death was not essential when the judgments were affirmed against them by the
appellate court, and that the sentences were not vacated. by
the writs of error, but only their execution stayed pending
proceedings in the higher court. The Supreme Court of
Illinois, under statutory authority, fixed another day when
the punishment prescribed by the judgments which it affirmed
should be inflicted, but it was held that that did not affect the
question raised, as no re-sentence was required; and, besides,
that the time and place of execution were not strictly parts
of the judgment or sentence unless made so by statute. 143
U. S.452.
In the light of these considerations, we cannot entertain
any other view of the purview of this section than that above
expressed. We are of opinion that the act of February 6, 1889,
did not authorize the issue of this writ, and we are therefore
compelled to order the writ of error to be
-Dismissed.
OTEBI v. SCALZO.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR.

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 166.

Argued April 8, 1892.--Decided May 16, 1892.

A bill in equity set forth the making of a partnership between the plaintiffs S; and R. and the defendant 0., each to contribute $5000. It
charged fraud, misappropriation of money and mismanagement. on the
part of 0.; that he had vilified and traduced them, for which they reserved
their right of action, and it prayed (1) for a receiver; (2) that the
,I5,000 capital so contributed should be paid into court; (3) for an
injunction restraining 0. from using the partnership name, etc.; (4) for
a dissolution. The cause was referred to a master to take proof and
report. The master found that there had been violations of the partnership agreement by the plaintiffs in not paying up their c6ntributions to
the capital at the times agreed upon and by 0. in various ways'set forth,

OTERI

. SoALZO.

Statement of the Case.
but that these had been condoned in November, 1884, the plaintiffs paying up their capital in full; that the partnership. therefore was to be
regarded as continuing uninterruptedly from July 1, 1884, to February 2,
1885, when 0. was called to answer 4n the state court the suit of his copartners for its dissolution, from which time it was to be regarded as
dissolved; and that the plaintiffs had incurred expenses on behalf of the
firm amounting to $2538.52. On the edming in of this report, it appearing,
that R. had assigned all his interest in the suit to S., the court decreed
that S. for himself, and as subrogee of R., recover from 0. $10,000, with
interest; that in other respects the report be confirmed; and "that the
complaifiants' bill of complaint be dismissed without prejudice to their
right in some other form of action, as they may be advised, to prosecute
the matter of defamation of character set forth in the bill of complaint."
Held,
(1) That equity has jurisdiction, where a person has been induced, by
fraudulent representations, to enter into a partnership, to rescind
the contract at his instance, and put an end to it ab initio;
(2) That if the case, upon the evidence, did not entitle complainants to
a return of their capital, and to be placed in the same situation, as
far as practicable, as if they had never entered into the partnership, but did authorize the ordinary decree for a dissolution and
accounting, relief could be awarded in the latter aspect, even
though the bill were not framed with precision, in the alternative,
for a cancellation or for a dissobition and accounting; and that if
'the-specific prayer were insufficient, such a decree could be maintained under the prayer for general relief, since it would be confdrmable to the case made by the bill;
(3) That the Circuit Court did not err in rendering a decree at variance
with the conclusions of the master (Kiberly v. Arms; 129 U. S.
512, distinguished);
(4) That the evidence did not furnish sufficient ground for decreeing
that complainants are entitled to the return of their capital, within
the principle of the rule which has sometimes been applied in such
cases;
(5) That the master was correct in holding that the preponderance of
evidence was to the effect that O.'s action early in October, in
regard to continuing the business in his own name, was condoned,
and the difficulties between the partners adjusted for the time
being;
(6) Th'at the case was one for an accounting rather than necessarily for
a return of capital; and that complainants should not be reinstated at defendant's expense in the same position as' if they had
not entered upon an enterprise which turned out to be unfortunate.

THE court stated the case as 'follows:
Vincenzo Scalzo and the firni of IRandazzo & Di Christina,

.580

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

composed of Vincenzo Randazzo and Antonio Di Christina,
aliens, filed their bill of complaint against Joseph .Oteri, a
citizen of the State of Louisiana., in the United States Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana, June 11, 1885,
alleging that on June 24, 1884, complainants entered into a
contract of copartnership with defendant to carry on a general commission business and, import fruits from Europe, as
set forth, under the firm name of Joseph Oteri & Co.; that
Sc6Izo, Di Christina- a;nd Oteri went to Europe thereafter in
the summer of 1884 to make arrangements for such dopartnership, and after various contracts had been made in the
firm name, Scalzo was authorized by his copartners to remain
a longer time to make additional contracts, which he did;
and that thereafter consignnients under said contracts coming
to Joseph Oteri & Co. were declined by Oteri against the
protest of complainants, who were obligbd to cqre for and
protect the same. It was further averred that on October 1,
1881, defendant, in violation of the contract of copartnership,
"(and with malice, without cause, probable or otherwise, and
in bad faith, for which oratorg reserve their action for dam-,
ages,)" after said contracts had been made in good faith for
the firm and before any partnership assets or capital had been
used, wrote to various paaties in Italy that all contracts made
for the firm should enure to his private benefit, and he would
not recognize .his firm therein; that Oteri had. refused to
make or cause to be made, as the general manager of the
affairs of the firm, monthly trial balances as agreed upon;
notwithstanding complainants' demand; that defendant had
vilified and traduced their character and injured their credit
and'business reputation, and refused to carry out contracts
for the firm, made with his knowledge and consent; that he
held in his hands complainants' money amounting to $10,000,
and refused to return the same, although duly demanded;
and that "they are entitled to be refunded their said capital
with legal interest from the 24th day of June, 1884."
The bill further alleged that, apart from the acts of the
defendant in refusing various consignments made to the firm
under their contracts in Eur6pe, they were not awaT.e until

OTERI v. SCALZO.
Statement of the Case.

a short time since of his fraudulent act in declining and
refusing to carry on. the contract of copartnership. Complainants further set up misconduct as to a cargo, in. respect
of which defendant declined to attend to the ,interests of the
firm, and involved complainants, in loss and damage to the
consignors.in a large sum, as they were obliged to protect
the consignment and save themselves from further loss, the
proceeds being paid over to Oteri for the benefit of the consignor. Complainants charged -thatthey were ignorant as to
the partnership affairs; that defendant declined to give any
knowledge of or concerning the same; that defendant had
converted the funds of complainants to his own use, and had
not held the same to the credit of the partnership; and that
the capital should be deemed to be taken as a part of the
assets of the partnership liable to the claims of the creditors
thereof, if any existed, or be refunded to complainants with
interest, if there were no creditors. Complainants then prayed
as follows: "1. That a receiver may be appointed to .take
ch,-rge of all partnership books and papers and accounts, goods,
and effects, and to collect the debts due thereto, and to preserve and dispose of the same under the direction of the court.
2. That said Joseph Oteri may be required to brillg into this
court, to be deposited to the credit of this cause, the aforesaid sum of fifteen thousand dollars and such other sum as
may be in his l~ands arising from profits. thereof or thereon,
either in the business of said copartnership (if any) or from
the uge thereof by said Joseph Oteri. 3. That the said
Joseph Oteri may by injunction be restrained from using the
name of saM copartnership, negotiating any bill or note in
said copartnership name, or contracting any debt -whatsoever
on account thereof, or in any manner intermeddling therewith. 4. That said partnership may be decreed to be dissolved as if the same had never been made, by reason of the
acts of said defendant; that. an account of its business may
be taken under the direction of this- court, and that its legal
liabilities may be paid and charged against the said Joseph
Oteri, and that the capital of your- orators, with interest,
be restored to them in the p]emises or otherwise at the discretion of the court; "Iand for geneial relief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Defendant filed a general demurrer, which was 6verruled
by the court, and thereupon filed his answer, to which was
attached a certified copy of the partnership act. Defendant
admitted that Scazo, Di Christina and himself went to Europe,
in furtherance of the partnership business, but denied that
Scalzo was authorized to make contracts, and averred that if
he made any they were unauthorized by the firm, and not
binding upon it or the defendant. He denied refusing to accept consignments coming to the firm, except that., he refused
to recognize or to be bound by a contract made by Scalzo with
his brother in Sicily to ship fruit to the firm, which contract
Scalzo had no right or authority to make; and denied that he
wrote to Italy as alleged, or that monthly balances had not
been furnished, or that he had vilified and traduced complainants, or converted their money, or involved them in loss and
damage in respect of the sale of a particular cargo. Defendant also denied that complainants were not aware of how the
partnership funds were invested, and alleged that books of account were kept which were always open to the ekamination of
complainants, and he annexed the last trial balance from .the
books; a statement of the asgets and liabilities of the firm; a
statement of the profit and loss account; and a statement of'
what was due to each partner, all as 'of the first day of June,
1885. Defendant averred that since June 1, 1885, and for a
long time prior thereto, he had transacted no business for the
firm on account of complainants having sued for a dissolution
February 4, 1885; and he alleged that the statements annexed
correctly exhibited the state of the affairs of the firm at their
date.
These statements showed cash on hand $3517.26, after deducting an outstanding liability of $140, and unicollected assets
to the amount of $5029.39, including the note of one Zuccas
for $2320.76; expenses, $3542.98, and other items of profit
and loss, r esulting in a loss of $2658.74. Oteri was credited
with $5000 and a cash item of .$74.61, and debited with cash
drawn, $1465.07; one-third of loss, $886.24; one-third of assets
uncollected, $1676.46; and a balance of cash due him of
$1046.84.'

OTERI v. SCALZO.
Statement of the Case.

Scalzo was credited with $5000, and cash, $1026.93; and
charged with cash drawn, $2197.33; one-third loss, $886.24;
one-third uncollected assets, $1676.47; and a balance of cash
due him of $1266.88.
Randazzo and Di Christina .were credited with $5000 and a
cash item of $15; and charged with cash drawn, $1248.75;
one-third loss, $886.25; one-third assets uncollected, $1676.46;
and a balance of cash due'them of $1203.54.
The act of copartnership was annexed,* igned by the parties
and stating that they appeared before a notary public, and
"declared that they hereby agree to enter into a copartnership for the purpose of carrying on a general commission business and the importation of fruit from Europe and for all
matters and things thereto appertaiving under the following
.stipulations and conditions, to wit.
" First. The partnership is to be carried on under the firm
name of Joseph Oteri & Co., is to be -domiciled in the city of
New Orleans, and is to exist and continue for the space of two
years, to be bomputed as commencing on and from the first
day of July, eighteen hundred and eighty-four, unless sooner
dissolved by mutual consent.
"Second. The capital invested in this copartnership consists
of a sum of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) in United State's
currency and has been contributed by the parties hereto in.
the manner following, to wit:
"Five thousand dollars each of -said Oteri and Scalzo, and
' the remaining five thousand dollars by said firm of Randazzo
and Di Christina.
"It is hereby agreed that in the event more capital should
be needed ai any time during the existence of the contract to
carry on said business the said Joseph Oteri shall, if he deems
proper and not otherwise, furnish same surplus capital thus
needed, and shall be entitled to and charge interest thereon
- at the rate ef eight per cent per annum.
"Third. It is.hereby furthermore agreed that said Oteri.
shall be the manager of said firm and as such have the exclusive control and direction of its affairs, as also of signing all
documents of whatsoever nature or kind, without any excep-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

tion or reservation whatsoever, pertaining to the business of the
said firm and be, as he is, alone entitled to sign the name of
said firm on all checks, bills of exchange, acceptances, bills of
lading, promissory notes or other obligations of -said firm;
and that in the event of any other partner or partners infringing or violating this agreement by sending any orders to
Europe or elsewhere or by signing any other documents whatsoever, then, and in such an event, the interest of the defaulting partner or partners shall at once cease and determine.
"Fourth. That said Oteri shall, as he is hereby empowered
to, delegate all or part of his powers herein by power of attorney to one or more persons wherever in his judgment he
shall deem the same expedient.
"Fifth. Books of account shall be kept in which all the
dealings and transactions of said firm shall be entered from
day to day and fairly written, from which trial balances shall
be taken monthly and a final balance at the end of each year,
which books shall be kept at all times open to the inspection
of all parties in interest.
"Sixth. All profits, gains and increases arising or accruing
from said business, and all losses, charges and expense whatsoever incidental thereto shall be shared and divided and borne out
and paid by the parties hereto in the proportions of one-third to
each of said Ot6ri and Scalzo and the remaining one-third to
said firm of Randazzo and Di Christina.
"It is furthermore hereby agreed that neither the capital
invested in said partnership nor the profits arising therefrom
shall be withdrawn by said copartners during the continuance
of this contract, save and except that each of said partners
shall have the right of withdrawing at the end'of each business year one-half of his share in the profits of the concern.
"It is furthermore agreed that in addition to the interest of
said Antonio Di Christina as a member of said firm of Randazzo and Di Christina herein he shall be entitled to and receive- out of the net profits of the business of said firm of
Joseph Oteri & Co. at the end of each of its business years two
per cent as an extra compensation for services to be rendered
by him to the business of said firm.

OTERI v. SOAILZO.
Statement of the Case.

"Seventh. In the event of the death of either of said Oteri
and Scalzo or both said Randazzo and Di Christina the partnership shall by the fact at once be dissolved and the remaining partner or partners allowed four months from the time of
such dissolution to liqudate the affairs of the concern."
-The cause being at issue, an examiner was appointed to take
testimony, and report the same to the court, and the cause
thereafterwards came on to be heard on the pleadings and
proofs, and " was thereupon argued by counsel for the respective
iarties and referred by consent to J. W. Gurley, Esq., as master to pass upon the accounts herein and to report thereon at
as early a day as possible." This was on March 4, 1887, and
on the 18th of the following May the master filed his report.
This report dealt only with the questions relating to the part3iership, those arising in reference to damages for defamation
of character having been reserved. Hd found that some time
after the formation of the partnership, Oteri, Scalzo, Di Christina, and their bookkeeper, Terni, went to Europe in the business interests of the firm; and that the charge made in the
cash book of the firm of $2538.32 for the expenses of the trip,
which complainants contended was an overcharge, was correct
and should be allowed: that at the time of the departure for
Europe, Scazo had paid into the capital $2000, and Randazzo
and Di Christina $2500: "3. That Oteri while in Europe
made business arrangements in the interest of the firm. 4. That
Vincenzo Scalzo remained in Europe for some "time after the
departure of. Oteri for home," but " had no right to make contracts for the firm." " 5. That some time after Scalzo's return
from Europe near the middle of September, as near as the
master can determine, Scaizo and'lRandazzo & Di Christina
paid the balance due by them on the capital of the firm, viz.:
Scalzo $3000 and Randazzo & Di Christina 82500. 6. That
the books of the firm were not kept in strictly mercantile
manner. 7. That Oteri did for a time after the formation of
the partnership and before the 14th of November, 1884, drop
the name of the firm and carry on the business in his own
name. 8. That Oteri did not furnish his copartners monthly
trial balances. 9. That on the 14th November, 1884, both

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

Terni, the bookkeeper, &-A. Di Christina, the partner of Randazzo, wrote, with the approval of Oteri, to their correspondents in Europe that all the troubles between the members of
the firm of Joseph Oteri & Co. had been adjusted; that Vincenzo Scalzo and Randazzo and Di Christina had paid in their
share of the capital, and that the business would thereafter' be
conducted in the firm's name." He held that Oteri had
violated the act of partnership in the particulars named, and
also that there was a violation on the part of the other partners in not completing, until November, the payment of their
share of the capital, which was due in July, but that on November 14, 1884, "all the acts theretofore committed, or
omitted, by any of the partners in violation of the partnership agreement were mutually condoned, and that harmony
was restored between the members of the firm, A. Di Christina himself actively aiding in making the announcement."
The report discussed the evidence bearing upon the contention
of complainants in afoidance of that adjustment, but concluded
that all matters in controversy prior to November 14, 1884,"
"were amicably adjusted on that day and should be considered settled."
The master further found that the evidence did not show
"that Oteri ever profited to the exclusion of his partners, nor.
an instance in which a loss of money to the firm resulted from
an unauthorized act of any of the partners," and was of opinion that all the losses were attributable "to the depressed
condition of the fruit market at the time of the arrival of the
consignments and not to the acts of any of the partners." He
recommended that the results from the books, as stated by
witnesses, should be accepted as correct, and held that "the
partnership should be considered as continuing uninterrupted
from 1st July, 1884, to the 2d Feb'y, 1885, at which date
Oteri was called to answer in the state court the suit of his
copartners for its dissolution; that from the 2d Feb'y, 1885,
Oteri.had no authority, to enter into any new engagements
for, or on behalf of his copartners, but it remained his duty'
to conduct to conclusiof all 9bligations and contracts made or.
commenced before that date."

OTEII v. SCALZO.
Argument,'for Appellee.

The master was satisfied from the evidence that no amicable
idjustment of the partnership could or would have been madb
oy the partners, but that a suit was necessary to settle their
.ffairs, and recommended that the costs be equally divided
between the thiree.
To this-report elaborate exceptions were filed, which were
considered by the master and overruled. Randazzo and Di
Christina subsequently assigned to Scazo all their right and
interest in the suit. The case having been heard on the exceptions to the master's report, it was decreed "that the complainant Vincenzo Scalzo, for himself and as subrogee of the.other
complamnants, the firm of Randazzo & Di Christina., do have
and recover of and from the .defendant, Joseph Oteri, the sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000), the amount put in the partnership by said complainants, less 2 of $2538.32, expended in
the interest of the partnership, with legal interest, to wit, 5%
per annum, thereon from the date of judicial demand, June 11,
1885, until paid; that the other exceptions be overruled, and
in other respects. that the master's report be approved and
confirmed. It-is further ordered, adjudged and decreed .that
the complainants' bill of complaint be dismissed without prejudice to their right in some other-form of action, as they may
be advisedto prosecute the matter of defamation of character
set forth in the bill of complaint. It, is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the costs be pgid by :the defendant."
A motion for rehearing ws made and argued and a rehearing refused, and the case brought Up on appeal.
.Mr. Joseh "P.Hornor and Mr. Guy X. Hornor, for appellant..
.Mr. George A. King (with whom was -Yr. Charles iF.
.BTornor on the brief) for appellee.
On the question of our 'right to a rescission we refer your
hbnors to .AMycoc v. Beatson, 13 Oh. D. 384; Stoughtbn. v.
-Lynch, 1 Johns. Ch. 466; G'idley ". Conner, .2 La. Ahn. 871,
Pillams v. Hawkness, dolles P. 0 .442.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court

"If one partner witlidraws or uses the partnership funds in
his own private trade or speculations, he must account not
only for the interest on the moneys so withdrawn, but for the
profits of that trade."

Stoughton v. Lynch, 1 Johns. Oh. 466.

The liability in such a case is as for .money converted to his
own use. Reis v. llellman, 25 Ohio St. 180.
When a partner takes possession of all the stock, books, etc.,
and in a settlement furnishes no evidence of the insolvency of
the debtors or unsuccessful diligence in collecting the claims,
they will be regarded as cash in his hands. Bush v. Guion,
6 La. Ann. 797.
M . CmEr

JUsTIcE

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Undoubtedly equity has jurisdiction, wheie a person has
been induced, by fraudulent representations, to enter into a
partnership, to rescind the contract at his instance, and put
an end to it ab initio. "Hewbiggingv. Adam, 34 Oh. Div. 582;
Smith v. Everett, 126 Mass. 304:; Fogg v. Johnston,27 Alabama,
432;- Story Part. § 232, 285; 2 Lindley Part. (Wentworth's
ed.) 554.
And it is contended that even though the formation of the
partnership may have been free from that taint, there may be
such fraud, misconduct .and breach of duty in the conduct of
its affairs from the inception, as to justify, upon dissolution,
,as between the parties, the restoration of his capital to the
injured partner.
This bill alleged that complainants "ate entitled.to be
refunded their said capital, with legal interest from 24th day
of June, 1884, and they now make demand therefor i" and it
prayed, among other things, that the partnership might "be
decreed to be dissolved as if the same had never been made, by
reason of the acts of said defendant; thht an account of its business may be taken under the direction of this court, and that
its legal liabilities may be paid and charged against the said
Joseph Oteri, and that the capital'of your orators, with interest, [may be,] restored to them in the premises, or otherwise

OTERI v. SCALZO.
Opinion of the Court.

at the discretion of the court." If the case, upon the evidence, did not entitle complainants to a return of their capi*tal, and to be placed in the same situation,, as far as practicable, as if they had never entered into the partnership,
but did authorize the ordinary decree for a dissolution and
accounting, we.are -of- opinion that relief could be awarded in
the latter aspect, even though the bill were not framed with
precision, in the-alternative, for a cancellation or for a dissolution and accounting. If the specific prayer were insufficient,
such a decree could be maintained under the prayer for general relief,, since it would be conformable to the case made by
the bill.
"It
is argued that the Circuit Court erredin the rendition of
a decree at variance with the conclusions of the master, because the reference was by consent, and the report amounted
to a determination by the parties' own tribunal, which could
not be disregarded at the mere discretion of the couirt.
In-XimbeqZy v. A4'rns, 129 U. S. 512, 524, it was said by
Mr. Tustic-e Field, delivering the opinion of the court: "A
reference by 6onsent of parties, of an entire case for the determination of all its issues, though not strictly a submission
of-the cotroversy to arbitrition - a proceeding which is governed by-special'ua- is a submission of the controversy .to
aTtribunal of the parties' own selection, to be governed in its
conduct by the ordina~ry i£±les applicable to the administration
of justice in tribunals established by law. Its findings, like
those 6f an independent tribunal, are to be taken as'ptesumptively correct, subject, indeed, to be rbviewed under the reservation contained in the consent and -order of the cQurt, when
,there has been manifest eiror in' the consideration given to
the evidence, of 1ihe 'application of the law, but not otherwise." .But here- the case was referred to the master "to pass
upon the accounts herein and to report thereon," and while
the master considered the wliole case, apparently without objection, we do not regard t]le rule laid down in Zimberly v.
Arms as applicable. The question whether the partnership
should be' held void from its incejtion was not submitted,
.Richards 'V. Todd, 127 Mass. 167, nor ivliether on other

OCTOBER. TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

grounds the whole capital should be returned. If the decree
had been in accordance with the conclusibns of the master,
such concurrent action would indeed have been of wellnigh
controlling effect. Crawford v. Heal, 144 U. S. 585. But
there was no such concurrence. The Circuit Court decreed
the r6turn of complainants' capital less two-thirds of the
amount expended on the European trip in the interest of the
partnership, and the decree was evidently based upon the view
that defendant had been guilty of such fraud or misconduct
or violation of partnership obligations as justified the relief
accorded.
The evidence tended to show that proper books of account
were not kept, and that monthly trial balances were not furnished, and there is some evidence that towards the last defendant refused complainants access to the books and papers
of the flrm, but' this is denied,, and the controversy seems to
relate to a letter-book. By the partnership articles, Oteri was
to have exclusive control and direction of the company's affairs. He was not himself conversant with the keeping of
books, and Terni, who had the confidence of all parties, was
entrusted with the duty of doing so, and it is a fair inference
that Oteri did not question the right, of his partners to examine the books and papers, but only demanded a receipt
from them for whatever book or paper they wished to take
away for examination. It is also objected that Oteri did not
furnish his quot.a to the capital. He was, however, confessedly responsible, and, as the manager, all the firm's money
belonged in his possession, and the record indicates that he
raised large amounts upon his own collaterals for- the benefit
of the business. His accounts cover the entire capital, the
proper proportion being credited to each partner. Whether
he technically deposited with himself .$5000 is not especially
material. At all events, we find no adequate support to the
conclusion that the complainants suffered any loss by reason
of the alleged, dereliction of duty in these regards, and we do
not think that of thentselves they furnish sufficient ground for
decreeing that complainants are en.titled to the return of their
capital, within the principle of the rule which has sometimes

OTERI v. SCALZO.
Opinion -of the Court.

been applied in such cases. The real gist of the controversy,
in this view, lies in the conduct of Oteri after his return from
Sicily. It appeared that early in October, 1884, he wrote to
European correspondents that the business would be continued in his name ; that he had dissolved the partnership; that
he had decided to withdraw; that he was awaiting the arrival of Scalzo in order to withdraw; and as reasons for these
announcements assigned having learned that one of his partners did not have a good reputation, and-that the capital had
not been paid in in full, as was indeed the fact. But it also
appeared that the firm continued to do business, and that on
the 14th of November, 1884, letters were written that the'capital had been paid in; that- the business would go on under
the frm name; and that all had been arranged, etc, These
letters were written by Terni, the bookkeeper, and by Di
Christina., one of the partners, and perhaps by others, for
Oteri, who, as we understand, could neither read nor write
Italian. Exactly when the balance of capital to be paid by
Scalzo and Randazzo and Di Christina was made up is not
clear, but Randazzo testifies that he paid in the balance of
his share in Novemberi and Sc.alzo seems to have done so at
about that time.
Without discussing the evidence in detail, we think the
master was correct in holding that -the preponderance of
evidence was to the effect that Oteri's action early in October,
in regard to continuing the .business in-his own name, was
condoned, and the difficulties between the partners adjusted
for the time being. And whatever business. had leen transacted in his individual name was treated as if there had been
no interruption. -It may be that complainants were ignorant
of Oteri's action in sending the October letters, but they can
hardly be permitted to say that they did not know how the
business was being conducted, parotiularly in view of the fact
that Di Christina was employed in the business and allowed
by the contract two per cent as extra compensation for
services. Scalzo resided in St. Louis, and Randazzo was
unable to read or write; but, nevertheless, through their
own observations, ana certainly through Di Christina,-they

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ought to have had knowledge of what was going on. It is
said that'Di Christina was young and not of strong mind and
easily influenced, but there is no issue of that kind made in
the pleadings, and we are not satisfied with that excuse for
ignorance. Upon the whole' record, we regard the case as
one for an accounting rather than necessarily for a return of
capital. lNo fraudulent represefitations as iniducements to the
formation of the partnership are alleged to have been made,
and whatever objectionable features may have characterized
Oteri's conduct and management, a scheme to defraud his
copartners is not shown to have existed. In the absence of
satisfactory!proof that losses were occasioned by his misconduct or that the want of success which attended the business
is traceable to that cause, complainants shQuld not be reinstated at his e xpense in the same position as if they had not
entered upon an enterprise which turned out tQ.be unfortunate.
We cannot, however, accept the correctness of the exhibits
attached to the answer as so far made out as to justify us in
ordering a decree to be entered in accordance therewith.
The books consisted of the originals and a new set made from
the originals, which seemed in themselves to be practically
unintelligible, and the results set forth in the exhibits were
arrived at by a friend of the partners, assisted by an accountant: But the new books were made .p, the balances struck,
and the statements prepared upon the basis of explanations
made by Oteri, and we are unwilling to proceed upon these
results in the absence of a specific disposition of them by
the Circuit Court. Amounts are charged against Scalzo, and
iRandazzo and Di Christina, the receipt of wlich they deny,
and which appear to require further investigation as to-their
accuracy; and so as to the indebtedness of one Zuccas, for
which, it is contended on-one side and denied on the other,
that Oteri'ought to be held responsible under the circumstances. We think the item of $2538.32 was properly allowed,
and that it needs no, further consideration. We find in the
record that a motion was made for an order on Oteri to pay
the cash on hand into court, but we are not informed whether
such an order was entered and compliedwith. No reason is

