OCTOBER TERIM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

The decree of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the ease remanided with instructionsto enter a
decreefor the
wpaintif upon the flrst claim, and forfurther proeedings in conformity with this opition.

PICKERING v. LOMAX.
ERROR TO THE 'SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 342.

Argued and submitted April 27, 1892.-

Decided May 16, 1892.

The treaty of Prairie du Chien, 7 Stat. 320, made grants of lands to certain
Indians, upon condition that they should never be leased or conveyed by
the grantees or their heirs. to any persons whatever, without the permission of the President of the United States. One of those grantees conveyed his land in 1858 by a deed which had endorsed upon it the approval
of the President, given in 1871. The state court of Illinois held that the
Indian had no authority to convey the land without permission from the
President previously obtained. Held,
(1) That this ruling of the state court raised a Federal question;
(2) That the permission thus given by the President to the conveyance,
after its execution and delivery, was retroactive and was equivalent to permission before execution and delivery, as no third parties
had acquired an interest in the lands.

TiE court stated the case as follows.
This was an action of ejectment brought by Pickering
against John A. Lomax and William Kolze to recover two
parcels of land in Cook County, Illinois, which had originally
been granted by the United States to certain Indians under
the treaty of Prairie du Chien of July 29, 18 9. A jury was
waived, the case tried by the court, and a judgment rendered
in favor of the defendants. The plaintiff thereupon sued out
a writ of error from the Supreme Court of Illinois, which
affirmed the judgment of the lower court.
Upon the .trial, in order to establish his title, the plaintiff
offered in evidence article 4 of the treaty of Prairie du Chien,
(7 Stat. 320, 321,) which, so far as the same is material, reads

as follows:

PICKERING v. LOMAX,
Statement of the Case.

"There shall be granted by the United States, to each of
the following persons, (being descendants from Indians,) the
following tracts of land, viz.: To Claude Laframboise, one
section of land on the Riviire aux Pleins, adjoining'the line
of the purchase of 1816;

.

.

to Alexander Robinson, for

himself and children, two sections on the Rivi&e aux Pleins,
above and adjoining the tract herein granted to Claude LaThe tracts of land herein stipulated to be
framboise... ..
granted, shall never be leased or coiveyed by the grantees, or
their heirs, to any persons whatever, without the permission
of the President of the United States."
Plaintiff then offered in evidence*a copy of the patent issued
December 28, 1843, signed by President Tyler under the provisions of the above treaty, granting the lands, including those
in litigation, to Alexander R obinson for himself and children.
The patent also contained the provision :" But never to be
leased or conveyed by him, them, his or their heirs, to any
person whatever, without the permission of the President of
the United States."
The next instrument in plaintiff's chain of title was a decree
in a shit in partition instituted February 22, 1847, in the Cook
County Court of Common Pleas, between Alexander Robinson
and his children, and evidence to show that the lands in question were set out to Joseph Robinson, one of the children.
The following deeds were then put in evidence:
Deed dated August 3, 1858, from Joseph Robinson and wife
to John F. Horton, which had endorsed upon it the approval
of the President of the United States, which approval was
dated January 21, 1871.
Deed from I aon Straus, administrator, etc., of the estate of
John F. Horton, deceased, to. Moses W. Baer, dated October 6,
1863, and made in pursuance of an order of sale by the county"
court of Cook County for payment of debts.
Several intermediate conveyances of the premises, down to
a deed dated November 10, 1866, from Henry H. Dyer and
wife to Aquila H. Pickering, the plaintiff.
The defendant introduced no evidence, but at the close of
the plaintiff's case moved that the plaintiff's testimony be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

excluded, and the case dismissed, upon the ground that the
deed of August 3, 1858, from Joseph Robinson and wife to
John F. Horton was made in direct violation of the terms of
the patent as to obtaining the approval of the President to
the conveyance.
This motion"was sustained, the court being of the opinion
that Robinson had no authority to convey without obtaining
the permission of the President beforehand; that the subsequent sanction obtained by persons claiming title under Robinson was invalid; and that even if such sanction would have
the effect of giving force to the deed, yet, as the grantee tnder
that deed, was dead, the administrator's deed would, not carry
any title to the purchaser from th administrator, but that, if
any title accrued by reason of the sancti6n of the President, it
would be to the heirs of Horton.
Thereupon the court rendered judgment for the defendant-,
which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Illinois, (120 Elinois, 293,) and the plaintiff sued out a writ of error from this
court.
.Mr. William E. Furness (with whom was Xr. .
lee on the brief) for plaintiff in error.

. Bis-

Mr'. Robe rt Hervey, for defendants in error, submitted on
his brief.
I. The title to the lands did not pass to the Indians by the
treaty. It only contained an agreement on the part of the
government to convey, which did not pass a legal title. It
was at most an .equitable one. The legal title remained in the
United States until the issuing of the patent nearly fifteen
years afterwards. And then the limitation on the power of
the patentees to convey formed a most important part of it,
and this limitation clearly expressed in the patent, the Supreme
Court of Illinois construed in the proceeding before it. Inasmuch as the titles to, and the conveyances of real property
within any of the States, are exclusively matters for state
jurisdiction, and as the Supreme.Court of Illinois has in con-

PICKERING v. LOMAX.
Opinion of the Court.

struing the deed from Robinson (the Indian) to Horton, his
grantee, decided that no title passed from Robinson to Horton
for want of the permission of the President of the United States
for the conveyance in apt time, my contention is that, the
decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois, settling as it does a
question of the ownership of land within the State, and within,
as I insist, the 'sole control of the Illinois court, is final and
conclusive, and that in a case of this character, this court
ought to follow and be bound by it, and that the writ of error
in this cause ought to be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in
this honorable court,
II. The conveyance from Joseph Robinson to John F.Horton, not having been permitted by he ;President of the United
States before or at the time of its execution, was nugatory and
could not be validated by any subsequent attempted approval.
Pickeringv. Lomax,120 Illinois, 289, 293, '295.
If the tardy approval of the President was effectiye and had
relation back to the time of the execution of the deed, that,
under the law of Illinois, would not help the plaintiff in error,
because the deed from the administrator of Horton, through,
which he claims, is not a deed .purporting to convey the fee
simple absolute. If the approval by President Grant in 1871,
of a deed made by an Indian in 1858, whose power to convey
was limited by the express terms of the patent, had any effect
by relation, it was in favor of the heirs of John F. Horton and
not of the plaintiff in error.
MR.JusTicE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case turns upon the question whether the act of Congress prohibiting Indian lands from being conveyed, except
by permission of the President, is satisfied by his approval
endorsed upon a deed thirteen years after its execution, and
after the death of the grantee and the sale of the land hy his
administrator.
1. A pmeliminary question is made by the defendant in error,
as to the jurisdiction of this court. By Rev. Stat. sec. 109, our
authority to review final 'judgments or decrees of the highest

OCTOBER TERTM, 189i.
Opinion of the Court.

courts of a State extends to all cases "where is drawn in question the validity' of a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States, and the decision is against their
validity." The argument of the defendant in this connection
is that as the title to the lands did not pass by the treaty,
which contained only an agreement to convey, the proviso
ceased to be operative when the patent was issued in 18433;
that the same restriction upon alienation contained in .the
patent was one which the Supreme Court of Illinois had considered; and that their construction, that no title passed from
Robinson and Horton for want of permission of the President
of the United States, could not be reviewed by this court.
There are two sufficient answers to this contention. First, the
proviso in the treaty did continue by its express terms to be
operative, so long as the land was owned by the grantees or
their heirs, and the object of carrying this proviso into the
patent was merely to apprise intending purchasers of the restrictions imposed by the treaty upon the alienation of the
lands. - Second, the case raised the question of the validity of
an authority exercised under the United States, viz.: the
authority of the President to approve the deed thirteen years
after its execution, and the decision of the Supreme Court of
Illinois was against its validity; so that the case is directly
within the words of the statute.
2. So far as the main question is concerned, we know of no
reason why the analogy of the law of principal and agent is
not applicable here, viz.: that an act inexcess of an agent's
authority, when performed, becomes binding upon the principal, if subsequently ratified by him. The treaty does not provide how or when the permission of the President shall be
obtained, and there is certainly nothing which requires that it
shall be given before the deed is delivered. .Doe v. Beardsley,
2 McLean, 412. It is doubtless, as was said by the Supreme
Court of -Mississippi in Harmon v. Partier,12 Sm. & Marsh.
425, 427, "a condition precedent to a perfect title" in the
grantee; but the neglect in this case to obtain the approval of
the President for thirteen years, only shows that for that length
of time the title was imperf, Kand that no action of ejectment

PICKERING v. LOMHAX.

315

Opinion of the Court.

would have lain until the condition was performed. Had the
grantee the day after the deed was delivered, sent it to Washington and obtained the approval of the President, it would be
sticking in the bark to say that the deed was not thereby
validated. A delay of thirteen years is immaterial, provided,
of course, that no third parties have in the meantime legally
acquired an interest in the lands.
If, after executing this deed, Robinson had given another to
another person, with the permission of the President, a wholly
different question would have arisen. But so far as Robinson
and his grantees are concerned, the approval of the President
related back to the execution of the deed and validated it from
that time. As was said by this court in Cook v. Tullis, 1
Wall. 332, 338: "The ratification operates upon the act ratified
precisely as though authority to do the act had been previously
given, except where the rights of third.parties have intervened
between the act and the ratification. The retroactive efficacy
of the ratification is subject to this qualification. The intervening rights of third persons cannot be defeated by the ratification." See also Fleckner v. Bank. of the United States, 8
Wheat. 338, 363. In AsAey v. Eberts, 22 Indiana, 55, a similar act of the President approving a deed was held to relate
back and. give it validity from the time of its execution, so as
to protect the grantee against a claim by adverse possession
which arose in the interim between its date and the confirmation. "Otherwise," said the court, "a mere trespasser by taking possession after a valid sale and before its consummation,
would have power to defeat a bonaf&de purchaser." This case
was approved in Steeple v. Downing, 60 Indiana, 478, 497. In
.Mluray v. Wooden, 17 Wend. 531, a conveyance of land by an
Indian which, subsequent to its date, had been ratified by a
certificate of approbation of the surveyor general in the form
prescribed by law, was held to be inoperative upon the ground
that, previous to the granting of such certificate, the Indian
had conveyed to a third person, and the deed to such person
had been approved in the mode prescribed by law pfevious to
the endorsement of the certificate of approbation of the deed
first executed. This was a clear case of rights intervening

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

between the execution of the first deed and its approval. In
,Srmith v. Stevens, 10 Wall. 321, the right to convey the lands
reserved for the'benefit of the Indians was expressly vested in
the Secretary of the Interior, upon the request of any one of
the Indians named, and it was held that there being no ambiguity in the act which had provided the way in which the lands
could be sold, by necessary implication it prohibited their
being sold ifany other way. "The sale in question not only
contravened the-policy and spirit of the statute, but violated
its positive provisions." In that case there was no pretence
that the requirements of the act had been fulfilled.
"Nor do we consider it material that the grantee had in the
meantime died, since, if the ratification be retroactive, it is as
if it were endorsed upon the deed when given, and enures to
the benefit of the grantee of Horton, the original grantee not as a new title acquired by a-warrantor subsequent to his
deed enures to the benefit of the grantee, but as a deed imperfect when executed, may be made perfect as of the date when
it was delivered. This was the ruling of the court in Steeple
v. -Downing,60 Infdiana,. 478.
The object of the proviso was not to prevent the alienation
of lands in toto, but to protect the Indian against ihe improvident disposition of his property, and it will be presumed that
the President, before affixing his approval, satisfied himself
that no fraud or imposition had been practised upon the Indian
when the deed was originally obtained. Indeed, the record in
this case shows that the President did not affix his approval
until affidavits had been presented, showing that Pickering
was the owner, and that the amount paid to Robinson was the
full value of the land, and that the sale was an advantageous
one to him.
We are constrained to differ with the Supreme Court of
Illinois in its view of the treaty, and to hold that, so far as this
.question is concerned, plaintiff's chain of title contained no
defect.
Tile judgment of the Supreme Court is, therefore,
Reversed, and, the case 2'emandedforfurther proceedings not
incons4tent vithA this opinion.

