FRA KLIN TELEGRAPH CO. v. HARRISON.

459

Syllabus.

ment, so far as it adjudged him to be an insolvent and appointed
an assignee to take possession of his property; and in any view

.he has no title or right in the property which was the subject
of the conveyance in trust.

If that conveyance was valid, the

property belong

to the trustee for the benefit of the creditors

named therein.

If it was invalid, the property vested in the

* assignee in insolvency.
Whether the judgment below was ineffectual as against the

trustee or the creditors named in t.he conveyance, either for
want of notice or because the conveyance to them could not

be set aside, or whether, on the other hand, that judgment was
valid against them, because rendered in

a proceeding 'in rem.

of which they were bound to take notice, is a question which
could be presented by them only, and they are not parties to

this writ of 'error. The plaintiff in error cannot invoke the
judgment of this court upon the rights of persons pnder whom
he does not claim.
oong v. Converse, 91 U. S. 105; Ludeling
v. a%afe, 143 U. S. 301, 305.

Judgment affimed.

FRANKII

TELEGRAPH. COMPANY v. HARRISON.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUJIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES TOR THE
. IASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No.319.

Argued April 19, 1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

A telegraph conpany gave'to H1.& Co. the right to put up at their own expense and maintain and use a wire upon the poles of the company between New York and Philadelphia, and to permit four other parties to use
the same with priority of right, the company to have the use of the wire
-when not so employed. The company agreed to keep and maintain the
wire when accepted by it, and to bear "all expendes of batteries, etc.,
connected with its workingand to permit such use by H. & Co. and
four other personstfor a period of ten ygars. At the end of that time
the wire was to be the property of the company, when the company
agreed "to lease-the same" -to"H. & Co. " for the use of themselves
and such other fom-r--persons .. "for the sum of $600 per annum, payable- quarterly, and upon he same terms in all other respects as if

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.
the wire had not been given up" to the company. The wire was put up
by H. & Co. and used by them and "four other persons" for the term
of ten years without compensation, and after that at the agreed compensation. The company then notified H. & Co. that the use of the wire
by H. & Co. and the four other persons had become such as to exclude
the company from all use of it, which was not contemplated by the original contract, and that the agreement would be teiminated by the company. H. & Co. filed their bill to restrain the company from so doing.
Held,
(1) That H. & Co. and their licensees, after the expiration of the ten
years, were entitled to the same absolute use of the wire which
they enjoyed before the wire was given up to the company, on
payment of $600 per annum, payable quarterly;
(2) That the facfs disclosed no hardship which would justify a court of
equity, in the exercise of its judicial discretion, to refuse the relief asked for;
(3) That the plaintiffs were entitled to such relief in equity.
THE

case Is stated in the opinion.

.Ab. Jokn F. Dillon and -Mr, Rusk Taggart for appellants.
Mr. 1. C. Aocurzrie and 21&.
pellees.
MR. JUSTICE EARLA

. Hollingswortk
H.
for ap-

delivered the opinion of the court.

.This suit was brought to obtain a decree restraining the
appellants, the defendants below, from terminating or in anywise interfering with the use by the appellees, the plaintiffs
below, of a t&legraph wire upon the poles of the defendants
between Philadelphia and New York, and requiring the
defendants to maintain such wire in good working order for
the use of plaintiffs and their licensees.
The plaintiffs .base their- claim to this relief upon a written
contract made in 1867 with the Franklin Telegraph Company,
a Massachusetts corporation, acting for itself and other companies. As the case depends upon the construction of that
contract, it is given.in full, as follows:
"Memorandum of agreement .made this 21st day of May,
186T, by the Franklin Telegraph Company for their own

FRANKLIN TELEGRAPH CO. v. HARRISON.

461

Opinion, of the Court.

account, and on behalf of the Insulated Lines Telegraph
Company, of the first part, and Thomas Harrison, MI. Leib Harrison, John Harrison, George L. Harrison, Jr., and Thomas S.
Harrison, trading as Harrison Brothers & Co., manufacturing
chemists of Philadelphia, of the other part:
"Witnesseth, That the party of the first part, for and inconsideration of the relinquishment by the parties of the
second part to the party of the first.part of a valuable contract made by tlhe party of the second part with the Insulated
Lines Telegraph Company, hereby grants to the party of the
second part the right to. put up, maintain and use a telegraphic wire between the cities of New York and Philadelphia, upon the poles of the Franklin Telegraph Company, or
of the Insulated Lines Telegraph Company, or of those persons or corporations whose property has lately been purchased
by or-consolidated into the stock of the party of the first part.
And the party of the second part are privileged at their
option to allow four other parties to use the same with them,
they and the licensees aforesaid to have priority in the use of
the said wire, for transmission of messages free of all expense.
The party of the first part, to have the use of the same when
not so employed. And in consideration of allowing the use
of said wire to the party of the first part when they, the said
parties of the second part and the. licensees aforesaid, are not
using the same, the party of the first part:agrees, said wire.
having first been put up to the acceptance of J. G. Sniithe,
the superintendent of said Franklin Telegraph Company, and
acc~pted by him, to keep and maintain at their own expense,
the saicptjw e in-good-wqrking order to and between the offices
of the parties-ef-thYd firspart in New York ai,>Philadelphia,
and betweeh said offices and the place§ of business of the parties of the second part and such four other persons or firns in:
the said cities of New York and Philadelphia, all expenses of
batteries, &c., connected with the working of said wire to be
paid by-the parties of the first part. . At the expiration of ten
years the party of the secpnd part agree that their private
wire shall belong-to the parties of the first part; after which
ti•iie the parties of ihe first part agree to lease the same to

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the party of the second part, for the use of themselves and
such other four persons or firms as the party of the second
part shall suffer and permit or license to use the same, for the
sum of six hundred dollars per annum, payable quarterly, and
upon the same terms in all other respects as if the wire had
not been given up.to the parties of the first part.
"The party of the second part, however, agree that no
assignment by them of their right under this contract shall
give their assignee the right to demand a lease of the said
wire after the expiration of the ten years, which right is to be
a personal privilege of the party of. the second part or of that
firm for th6 time being.
"It is further agreed that the right of giving the use of the
wire to four other parties shall be exercised by the party of
the second part or their assignees only by giving the same to
any person or firm not being a telegraph company, a banker,
qr stock or exchange broker or railroad company.
"1And in case the party of the second part shall procure a
charter to carry on the business they are now engaged [in], or
a similar business, the privileges and rights of the party of the
second part shall enure to said corporation in like manner as
if such corporation had been-named as the party of the second
part herein.
"In case of any-'dsagreement on that or any other point
embraced in this contract, the decision of the same shall be
left to two disinterested persons mutually chosen by the paxties hereto, with a right to call in a third as umpire, whose
decision shall be final.
"In case those objections axe held valid by the arbitrators
and not acquiesced in by the parties of the. second part, the
party of the first part reserves the right to pur6hase the said
wire at a fair valuation, -to be determined by referees in the
same manner aany other matter in this agreement; with the
above exceptionhe party of the second part has the right 'of
transfer.
"No change in the firm or firm name of the party of the
second part or those interested through them by death or
retirement or by addition of members to said firm or from

FRANKLIN TELEGRAPH CO. v. HARRISO1N.

463

Opinion of the Court.

other cause shall vitiate the right or title of the party of the
second part under this contract or destroy its continuance in
full force to such new firm and the members thereof as if they
were named herein.
"The partiss of the second part and those interested through
them are not to do other than their own legitimate mercantili
and personal business. Should they be willing to transmit
any other messages they are to charge the company's regular
tolls and hand the same over weekly to the proper officers of
said companies without discount or diminution.
"In case of a violation of this contract in this respect by
the party of the second part or their licensees, they shall
respectively pay the parties of the first part four .times the
current rates of similar messages and the expenses of recovering the same as liquidated damages, and if this should continue and be found by arbitration to have been intentionally
persisted in, it shall terminate this contract against the offending party, whether Harrison Bros. & Co., or either of their
licensees.
"It is agreed by the Franklin and Ingulated Lines Telegraph Companies that no debts at present made or hereafter
contracted shall in any way affect or injure the rights of the
parties of the second part under this agreement, or impair
their title to the wire put uqp by them on the poles of said
companies.
"In case the said wire shall at any time be out of order or
incapable from any cause of being used, the parties of the first
part will transmit the messages of the party of the second
part and their licensees ,from any of their offices to and from
New York and. Philadelphia in regular turn, with all other
messages received for transmission, free of all charge and
expense."
The plaintiffs are the successors in business of Harrison
Brothers & Co., parties to the above contract, and entitled to
all the rights conferred, and subject t6 all the liabilities
imposed, by its provisions.
The Franklin Telegraph Company, June 14, 1876, leased all
it's property and franchises to the Atlantic and Pacific "Tele-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

graph Company, a corporation of New York, for the term of
ninety-nine years from May 1, 1876; and on the 19th day of
January, 1881, the latter corporation sold and transferred all
its property and franchises (except the franchise to continue
its corporate existence) to the Western -Onion Telegraph Company.
The plaintiffs, at their own expense, put up the required
wire on the poles of the Franklin Telegraph Company'between
New York and Philadelphia. After May 21, 1877- ten
years from the date of the above contract having expiredthey enjoyed its use, and paid to the Atlantic and Pacific
Telegraph Uompany the stipulated sum of $600 per annum.
On the 20th of August, 1880, the plaintiffs received from the
Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph Company a communication, in
which it was said:
"In the contract entered into between your house and the
Franklin Telegraph. Company in May, 1867, it was contemplated that the telegraph company should have the use of the
wire leased during a c6nsiderable portion of the time, in consideration of which the telegraph company were to maintain
the line in working order and furnish battery power therefor.
Your own business and that of your licensees has deprived us
more and more of the use of this wire, until we find ourselves
furnishing the exclusive use of a wire, between New-York and
Philadelphia, maintaining and supplying battery for it, for the
sum of $600 dollars per annum. As this cannot be afforded
and was not contemplated by ihe contract, and as the contract fixes no limit of continuance, we respectfully give notice
that we shall consider it terminated from and after Ist of
November next, being the end of the next quarter. Should
you desire to continue the connection we shall be glad to
accommodate you upon as favorable terms as can be afforded,
and would like to have your decision at an early day, that we
may make suitable provision for you, if desired, upon our new
and substantial line now in process of constructfon."
To this the plaintiffs replied: 1" We are sorry that you still
insist on your view of our rights under the contract. We had
hoped that the views that we lately presented to you would,

FRANKLIN TELEGRAPH CO. v. HARRISON.

466

Opinion of the Court.

-when you came to think the matter over, convince you. We
see no way, however, of settling the case except by having
.the meaning of the contract decided. We suggest, therefore,
that an amicable suit be instituted for this purpose, and that
your notice be extended so as to cover the time necessary to,
make a decision. If, in the meanwhile, you have any substitute to propose for the existing arrangement we shall be glad
to consider it. We desire that the pleasant relations that have
existed between us may not be disturbed, and think that our
suggestion will meet with your approval."
Nothing further was done to interfere with the rights claimed
by the plaintiffs until May 20, 1882, when they received the
following notice: "You will please take notice that the
Franklin Telegraph Company desires to terminate the agWeement heretofore, and on the twenty-first day of May, 1867,
executed between themselves and you, and that the same
will be so terminated on the twenty-first day of November,
1882."
In anticipation of this threatened termination of the contract, and to prevent the consequences that would result from
such action, the present suit was brought by the plaintiffs.
The defendants, in their answer, allege that the telegraphic
wire, erected under the said agreement, consisted of the wire,
the insulation thereof, and a cable under the North River, in
order to complete the line of communication into the city of
New York; that such cable became worn by long use and
was no longer serviceable, so that the defendants were compelled to abandon its use, and it has since been taken up and
removed; that the insulation of the wire, erected by the
plaintiffs, also, became, by long use, unserviceable, and a new
one was substituted by the defendants; that, finally, the wire
itself, by long use, became imperfect, unreliable, unfit for use,
and was taken down; and that, before the commencement of
this suit, every part of the telegraphic line erected by the
plaintiffs under the above agreement, had been taken down
and removed for the reasons just stated, and no part of it was
now in use.
It was also alleged in the answer that the cost to the plainVOL. CxLv-30

OCTOBER 'TERN, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tiffs of erecting said wire could not properly have exceeded
'$3000, that the expense to defendants of keeping and main.
taining the same in good working order, and the expenses of
batteries, etc., connected with the working of -the wire, which
defendants paid, amounted to $600 per annum between May
21, 1861, and May 21, 1877; and that the telegraphic facilities
furnished to the plaintiffs and their licensees during the same
period were of the value to the plaintiffs of $600 per annum.
By the final.decree of the Circuit Court, held by Mr. Justice
Bradley and Judge Butler, it was: ordered, adjudged and decreed that "under and by virtue of the contract or agreement
made and bearing date the 21st day of May, 1867, by and between the Franklin Telegraph Company, for their own ac,
count and on behalf of the Insulated Lines Telegraph Company,.
of the first part, and Thomas Harrison, M. Leib Harrison,
John Harrison, George L. Harrison, Junior, and Thomas S.
Harrison, trading as Harrison Brothers and Company, manu
facturing chemists of Philadelphia, of the other part, the complainants in this suit, as successors of said Harrison Brothers
and Company, are entitled, so long as the defendants, The
Franklin Telegraph Company, their successors or assigns,
shall keep up and maintain the line of telegraph. between the
cities of New York and Philadelphia mentioned in the said
agreement or any telegraph line between the said cities, to an
irrevocable license, subject to the payment of six hundred dollars per annum, payable quarterly; to have the use of one
wire in and upon said line in the manner provided for in said
agreement, for the benefit and use of/their said firm of Harrison Brothers and Company, so long as the complainants or
either of them shall continue to be members or a meniber of
said firm and the said firm shall continue.to carry on the business they were engagedin-at the time of said agreement or a
similar business, by whatever name the said firm may be
called, or whether acting as a firm of individuals or under a
charter of incorporation. The court therefore doth order, adjudge and decree that the defendants, the said Franklin Telegraph Company, their .successors and assigns, so long as
they shall continue to maintain said line of telegraph or any

FRANLKLIN TELEGRAPH CO. v. HARRISON.

467

Opinion of the Court.

telegraph line between the cities of New York and Philadelphia, do maintain in good working order a telegraph wire
thereon, for the use of the said firm or corporation, so long as
the complainants or either of them shall be members or a
member thereof, according to the terms of said contract, and
that they be enjoined from interfering with the use of said
wire by the said firm or corporation in manner aforesaid."
The principal question is as to the nature of the interest
the appellees had under the agreement of May 21, 1867, after
the expiration of ten years from its date, when the ownership
of the wire passed from Harrison Bros. & Co. to the telegraph
company. It was stipulated that the company after the wire
became its property should "lease the same" to Harrisbn
,Bros. & Co. "for the use of themselves and such other four
persons or fnms" as that firm "shall suffer and permit or
license to use the same, for the sum of six hundred dollars per
annum, payable quarterly, and upon the same terms in all
other respects as if the wire had not been given up to" the
telegraph company. The appellants insist that the agreement
was only for a lease of the wire, to begin when ii became the
.property of the telegraph company and to continue for one
year; that as the appellees occupied it for that year and the
next year, they became tenants from year to year; that it
was in the power of the appellants to determine such tenancy
at the end of any year upon notice; and that, having given
proper notice, the interest of the appellees ceased.
It appears from the uncontradicted averments of the bill, as
well as from the evidence, that the Franklin Telegraph Company originally owned two wires from Philadelphia to New
York, and was doing a paying business; and that the Insulated Lines Telegraph Company owned four wires from Boston
to New York, a'nd four wires running south from New York
to Washington through Philadelphia, but had a large bonded
and floating debt, and was losing money. The latter company made overtures to the former for a consolidation, pending which inquiries were set on foot in respect to the nature
of the contract between ]Harrison -Bros. & Co. and the Insu.
lated Lines Telegraph Company. The Franklin Telegraph

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

Company was unwilling -to enter into the proposed consolidation, so long as that contract existed. Thereupon negotiations
were commenced with Harrison Bros. & Co., which resulted
in the agreement of May 21, 1867. The bill avers nd the
answer admits that said agreement "was made by said
Franklin Telegraph Company with said Harrison Bros. & Co.
for the purpose of having rescinded the said contract between
the said Insulated Lines Telegraph Company and said Harrison Bros. & Co., and in order to secure the erection of a wire
upon the poles of said company between New York and Philadelphia by and at the expense of said last-mentioned firm."
What was the intrinsic value to that firm of the contract thus
relinquished, or how necessary it was, at that time, to the
interests of the Friauldin Telegraph Company and of the proposed consolidated company that that contract should be surrendered and cancelled, the record does not disclose. But the
agreement recites, and, therefore, the parties agree, that the
contract so relinquished by Harrison Bros. & Co. was a
"valuable" one. And the evidence shows that it was delivered up to the Insulated Lines Telegraph Company. At the
examination of a witness, who had been the general agent of
the Franklin Telegraph Company, and has directly connected
with the negotiations leading up to that agreement, the plaintiffs called for the production of the contract which Harrison
Bros. & Co. had relinquished. The attorney for the telegraph
companies answered that he had not received previous notice
to produce it,- and could not do so then because it was not in
his possession. This notice may"have been insufficient under
the strict rules of evidence, but it was within the power of
defendants to have produced the contract at 's6me subsequent
date, so as to enable the court and the jury, if it was necessary to do so, to ascertain, with reasonable certainty, the real
value of the privileges surrendered by Harrison Bros. & Co. in
consideration of the rights given them by the contract of
1867. The contract would, perhaps, have thrown light upon
the meaning of the clause by which that firm acquired-the
right to "1lease" the wire put up by them after it became the
property of the telegraph company. With that contract

FRANKLIN TELEGRAPH CO. v. HARRISON.

469

Opinion of the Court.

before us we could, perhaps, better understand the suggestion,
made in different forms, that Harrison Bros. & Co. got by the
decree below privileges far greater in value than any relinquished by them, and that the contract of 1867', as interpreted
by them, is a hard, unreasonable one that ought not to be
enforced by a court of equity.
Looking at the written contract -which
the bill alleges,
and defendants insist, was made to carry out the previous
agreement' and understanding of. the parties- it is quite
clear that, although the word "lease" is used, the parties did
not intend that the plaintiffs should be subjected, after the
expiration of ten years, to the strict conditions applicable
to a technical lease of real estate. The contract limits the
period during which appellees should be the owners of the
wire, but does not limit the time during which they could,
of right, use it in their business. If it- was intended that
Harrison Bros. & Co. -having relinquished their valuable
contract with the Insulated Lines Telegraph Company, and
put up the wire at their own expense - should become, after
ten years, only tenants from year to year of the telegraph
company, that intention, it seems to the court, would have
been distinctly avowed.
The agreement is clear and specific as to the consideration
which passed from the respective parties. In consideration
of the relinquishment by Harrison ]3ros. & Co. of their contract with the Insulated Lines Telegraph Company, that firm
was given the privilege of putting up, at its own expense, a
wire on the poles of the telegraph company, between Philadelphia and New York, to bd used as well by them in their
legitimate nercantile and personal business, as by their licensees, not exceeding four in number- such licensees not
being telegraph or railroad 'companies, bankers or stock or
exchange brokers. And in consideration of the company
being allowed to use the wire, when not in use by Harrison
Bros. & Co. or their licensees, the company agreed to keep
and maintain it in good working order at its expense. The
contract next provided that, upon the expiration of ten years,
the wire should become the property of the telegraph com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

pany. Then follows the agreement of the telegraph company to lease it'for $600 per annum, payable quarterly, to be
used by Harrison Bros. & Co. and theih licensees, "upon the
same terms in all other respects, as if the wire had not been
given up" to the telegraph company. Now, this means that,
whereas, before the expiration of ten years, the wire should
belong to Harrison Bros. & Co. and be used by them and
their licensees, free of charge or expense for legitimate messages, it should, after ten years, belong to the telegraph company, but subject to be used in the same way as before by
paying $600 dollars annually; the right, however, remaining with the telegraph company to-use it when not in use
by Harrison Bros. & Co. and their licensees. The requirement. that its use by Harrison Bros. & Co. after ten -years
should be "upon the same terms in all other resfpects as if the
wire had not been given -up," can only be met by according
to-appellees and their licensees the same absolute right of use
they enjoyed before the wire was given up to the company,
subject to the condition that, instead of having their messages
transmitted without charge, they must pay $600 per annum.
This, we think, is the reasonable interpretation of the contract. And that view is supported to some extent by the fact
that the parties deemed it necessary to provide that no assignment by Harrison Bros. & Co. of their right under the
contract sh)uld give their assignees the right to demand a
lease of the wire after the expiration of the ten years. That
clause was wholly unnecessary if it was intended to give
Harrison Bros. & Co. merely the rights of a tenant from
year to year; for, if only that relation was established by the
contract, the telegraph company could have determined it at
,ny time, upon due notice. After the expiration of ten years,
Harrison Bros. & Co. had only a priority in the use of the
wire in consideration of a fixed annual sum to be paid quarterly. They retained neither control. nor possession nor
interest in the property. They simply purchased the use,
without limitation as to time, after the ten years, for themselves and licensees, of a wire erected on the poles of the
telegraph company, between Philadelphia and New York.

FRANKLIN TELE GRAPH CO. v. HARRISON.

471

Opinion of the Court.

We do not find in all this the essential characteristics of a
lease.
Why shall not the telegraph company perform the terms
of its contract?
Its original execution was unattended by
fraud, surprise, misrepresentation, imposition, concealment of
material facts or mistake. The parties, thoroughly understood the situation and knew what they were doing. :The
possibility that, by reason of an increase in the population
and business of New York and hladelphia, the use of a
telegraphic wire between those cities could, in time, be sold
for more than $600 per annum was, of course, present to the
minds of those who were interested in the telegraph company, and to whom were entrusted the negotiations for the
relinquishment of the contract Harrison Bros. & Co.had with
the Insulated Lines Telegraph Company., 'Nevertheless, the
telegraph company deliberately chose to risk that possibility
in order to get the Harrison contract out of its way. That
contract having been relinquished, and a large sunf, exceeding $10,000, having been advanced by Harrison Bros. & Co.
to erect the wire, the telegraph company ought not to be,
heard to urge, as a ground for not performing its agreement,
that the annual license fee stipulated to be paid by appellees
is much less than could be now obtained from others. If
competing telegraph lines had been established between New
York and Philadelphia, and by reason thereof such use as
appellees and their licensees make of the wire in question
could now be had for much less than $600 per annum, that
circumstance would hardly constitute sufficient ground for
them to refuse payment of the full amount stipulated to be
paid for its use annually. A different 'rule should not be
applied where the price has increased, because of the absence
of competition among telegraph companies, or from other
causes not attributable to the plaintiffs.
It is said that the contract turns out to be a hard one for
the telegraph company, andthat a court of equity should not
aid in its enforcement. It is true that in many adjudged
eases, and by numerous text-writers, the general rule is laid
down that equity in the exercise of a sound judicial discretion

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

will refuse a decree for specific performance where it would
be a great hardship upon one of the parties to grant relief of
that character. But this general rule is subject, in its application, to some limitations that arise out of-the facts of particular cases.
In OathAcrt v. Robinson, 5 Pet. 264, 271 -which was a
suit to enforce the specific performance of a contract for the
sale and purchase of land, in which one of the defences was the
excessive price for which the land was sold- Chief Justice
Marshall, while conceding that excess of price was an ingredient which, associated with others, will contribute to
prevent the interference of a court of equity, said: "The
value of real property had fallen. Its future fluctuation was
matter of speculation. At any rate, this excess of price over
value, if the contract be free from imposition, is not in itself
sufficient to prevent a decree for a specific performance."
In Marble Company v. Ripley, 10 Wall. 339, 356, where the
decree required the specific performance of a contract to quarry
marble, and was objected to upon the ground that, though supposed to be fair and equal when made, the contract became,
by lapse of time, and the operation of unforeseen causes, and
changed circumstances, unfair, unreasonable and unconscionable, the court, speaking by Mvr. Justice Strong, said: 4 It
may be doubted, however, whether the hardship of t1he contract is any greater than must have been contemplated when
it was made. It is not unconscionable because Ripley obtains
a larger profit from it than was at first expected, or because
the other party obtains less. Those were contingencies, the
possibility of which might have been foreseen. It could not
have escaped the thought of the contracting" parties that the
expense of quarrying might possibly increase, and that the
expense of sawing and preparing for market might either
increase or diminish in the progress of time. Of that they
took their chances. Besides, it is by no means clear that a
court of equity will refuse to decree the specific performance
of a contract, fair whien it was made, but which has become
a hard one by the force of subsequent circumstances or changing events." These principles, the court said, must be appli-

FRANKLI

TELEGRAPH C0. v. HARRISON.

473

Opinion of the Court.

cable to contracts "that do not look to completed performance
within a defined or reasonable time, but contemplate a continuous performance, 'extending through an indefinite number of
years, or perpetually."
Fry on Specific Performance, 116,
and c. 6.
In Sugden on Vendors it is said that "a court of equity
does not affect to weigh the actual value, nor to insist upon an
equivalent in contracts, where each party has equal competence.
When undue advantage is taken, it ivill not enforce the contract; but it cannot listen to one party saying that another
man would give him more money or better terms than he
agreed to take. It may be an improvident contract; but improvidence or inadequacy do not determine a court of equity
against decreeing specific performance." c. 5, § 3, par. 25;
Sullivan v. Jacob, 1 Molloy, 472, 477. So, in Zee v. Kirby,
104 Mass. 420, 428: "The question of the want of equality
and fairness, and of the hardship of the contract, should, as a
general rule, be judged of in relation to the time of the contract, and not by subsequeiit events. We do not intend t6 say
that the court will never pay any attention to hardships produced by a change of circumstances ; but certainly the general
rule is, that a mere decline in value since the date of the contract is not to be regarded by the court in cases of this nature."
See also Revell v. H&ussey, 2 Ball & 3eatty, 280, 287; Paine
v. ,Afellor, 6 Yes. 349, 352; -Hortimerv. Oapper, 1 Bro. Oh.
156.
In view of these principles, which we think are founded in
wisdom, we are of opinion that the fact that the appellants
could, -at the commencement of this suit, or since, sell at an
increased price the privilege for which the appellees paid by
relinquishing a valuable contract and advancing a large sum
of money, and which privilege they now enjoy for the stipulated price of $600 per annum, is not sufficient to justify the
court in withholding the relief asked.
It was said in argument, as a reason why the relief sought
should not-be granted, that the appellees and their licensees
had now the exclusive use of the wire in question; whereas,
the expectation of the parties, at the time of the contract, was

171

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that the telegraph company would have the use of it during,
at least, a part of the time. It is sufficient to say that this
fact is not established by the evidence. It is true that an
officer of the Atlantic and Pacific Telegraph Company, in a
letter addressed to Harrison Bros. & Co., stated that his company was furnishing to that-firm "the exclusive use of a wire
between New York and Philadelphia, maintaining and supplying battery for it for the sum of $600 per annum." But
no such fact. was stated by any witness in the cause. It is
still more significant that the answer contains no such defence.
What would be the rights of the parties if the appellees so
used the wire in question as to deprive the telegraph company of all opportunity to use it for its general business, or
whether, in such a case, the court would or. would not refuse
specific performance, except upon the condition that the telegraph companies shared in the use of the wire for a reasonable portion of the time, Willard v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557, we
need not inquire. No such case is presented for our consideration.
In respect to the question discussed at the bar, relating to
the remedy, but little need be said. It is clear that the appellees had no adequate remedy at law for the protection of their
rights. Suits at law, from time to time, to recover damages
for the refusal of the telegraph company to transmit the messages of appellees over this wire, would not have given the
relief necessary to secure their rights under the contract.
Such a remedy would not be complete, nor an adequate substitute for an injunction that wohld secure the appellees against
perpetually recurring denials of their rights. Joy v. St. Iouis,
138 U. S. 1, 46; Coosaw Xfining Co%. v. Soath Carolina,144
U. S. 550, 567., If appellees are entitled, for the sum of $600
per year, payable quarterly, to have the messages of themselves and their licensees transmitted over the appellants' wire
between New York and Philadelphia, so long as the latter
maintain a telegraph line between those cities -as
we think
they are-the only effective relief is a decree such as .that
rendered below.
Decree affirmed.

