FELIX v. PATRICK.
Syllabus.

FELIX v. PATRICK.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRC!UIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IEBRASKA.

No. 301. Argued April 14, 1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

F., a half-breed of the.Sioux nation, received in 1857 a certificate of landscrip under the treaty of July 15, 1830, 7 Stat 328, and under the act of
July 17, 1854 , 10 Stat. 30-, c. 83, which enactdd lthat "no transfer or conveyance of any of said certificates or scrip shall be valid." In Mlarch,
1860, she executed a power of attorney in blank, and a quitclaim deed in
blank, the name of the attorney, the description of the land, and the
name of the grantee in the deed being omitted. These came into the
possession of P., on the payment of $150, who inserted the name of 1.
as attorney, and his own name as grantee, and a tract of 120 acres in
Omaha, of which he was already in possession, but without valid title,
as the description. The deed was then delivered to him by I. and was
put upon record. P. never informedF. of this location, or of the record
of these several instruments, but remained in possession of the located
tract, either personally or through his grantees. Congress, on the procurement of P., confirmed his -title to the tract. 15 Stat. 186, c. 240 ;
269, c. 21. The half-breed was ignorant of all this until August, 1887,
when the Sioux Indians became citizens of the United States by virtue
of article 6 of the treaty of April 29, 1868, 15 Stat. 637. In 1888 the
representatives of F., who had deceased, filed a bill in equity against P.,
setting forth these facts: averring that the power of attorney and quitclaim deed had been fraudulently procured by some persons unknown,
and praying that P. should be decreed to have taken the title in trust for
F., and that the power of attorney and the quitclaim deed should be declared to be fraudulent and a cloud upon plaintiffs' title, and that the
defendants be directed to surrender the estate to plaintiffs. To this the
defendants demurred, and the court below dismissed the bill. 'Held,
(1) That P. was chargeable with notice that the power and the quitclaim
deed were intended as devices t.o evade the law against the assignment of the scrip, and that he acquired no title through them;
(2) That he acquired no additional rights through the confirmatory acts
of Congress;
(3) That having no right to locate the scrip for his own benefit, he
must be deemed to have located it for F. and as her representative;
(4) That this implied trust did not prevent him from taking and holding
possession of the land adversely to her and for his own use and
benefit;
(5) That, under these circumstances, F. was bound to use reasonable
diligence in discovering the fraud, and seeking redress;

.S318

OCTOBER TERM, 18vi.
Staterhent of the Case.

(6)

(7)
(8)

That, conceding that plaintiffs were incapable of being affected with
laches so loifg as they maintained their tribal relations, the bill
was fatally defective in not'setting forth when-and how the alleged
frauds were discovered, in order that the 'court might clearly
see whether it could not have been discovered before;
That, in view of all the circumstances it would be inequitable to
disturb the disposition made of the case below;
That the most which could be justly demanded would be the repayment of the $150, with interest.

Tnis was an appeal from a decree sustaining demurrers to
a bill in equity filed by the heirs of Sophia Felix against the
defendant Patrick and his grantees, for the purpose of having
them declared trustees for the plaintiffs of certain lands in the
city of Omaha, which, in 1861, he had caused to be entered in
the name of Sophia Feli by virtue of certain scrip issued to
her as a member of the Dakota or Sioux nation of Indians.
The allegations of the bill were, in substance, as follows:
1. That in 1854, Sophia Felix, being a half-breed of the
Sioux or Dakota nation of Indians, residing in Minnesota,
was under the treaty of July 15,1830, and the act of Congress
of July 17, 1854, entitled to have issued to her scrip for the
location of 480 acres of land, as provided by that act. That
* in 1857 scrip was issued to her for 480 acres, and that before
the location of said scrip the said Sophia Felix intermarried
with one David Garnelle.
2. That on March 31, 1860, certain persons unknown, "by
certain wicked devices and fraudulent means," procured the said
Sophia with her husband, said David Garnelle, to execute a
.power of attorney in blank, also a quitclaim deed in blank, a
copy of each of which -was attached to the bill. The power
of attorney omitted the name of the attorney, the number of
'the scrip and the description of the land, and authorized the
person whose name was to be inserted to sell, and convey, and
confirm unto the purchaser thereof the following described
pieces or parcels of land, "to be located for us, and in our
name," etc. The quitclaim deed also omitted the name of
the grantee and the description of the land; but both instruments were otherwise in legal form.
3. That the defendant Patrick in November, 1861, pro-

FELIX v. PATRICK.
Statement of the Case.

cured from some person unknown possession of said scrip, to
the amount of 120 acres, and on November 21 made application to the land office at Omaha to locate such scrip, and
thereupon, in the name of said Sophia Felix, located the same
upon certain described real estate in the county of Douglas
and Territory of Nebraska. (These lands are now admitted
to be within the limits of the city of Omaha.) That "at the
time of said location, the said Sophia Felix had never parted
with the title to or any interest in said scrip, and-was the absolute owner thereof and sole beneficiary therein, and these
facts the said Matthewson T. Patrick at that time and at all
times well kiiew-, and the said location enured wholly to the
benefit of the said Sophia Felix," although she had no knowledge that Patrick had procured the possession of the said scrip
or located the same. That the said Patrick "in securing possession of said scrip procured the same vith the intent to appropriate the scrip to his own use and defraud the said Sophia Felix
out of the same, and out of all interest therein, and out of all
benefits thereunder, and located the same, designing it for his
own use and benefit, and with the fraudulent intent to deprive
the .said Sophia Felix out of all benefit and interest therein.";
4. That in the further prosecution of his scheme to defraud,
Patrick secured the blank power of attorney and quitclaim
deed, and shortly thereafter caused the power to be filled out
with a description of the scrip, and of the property located
with it, and caused the name of William Ruth to be inserted
as the attorney to sell and convey the .property, A description
of which was so inserted; that he also caused the quitclaim
deed to be filled out with a description of the property, and
inserted his own name as grantee, making the instrument purport to be a conveyance by Sophia and David Garnelle to
himself; that on September 7, 1863, he caused the said power
of attorney and quitclaim deed to be filed for record in the
recorder's office of Douglas County; and in furtherance of
said wrongful designs caused the said William Ruth, named
by himself as attorney, to execute and deliver to him a deed
of the property, by virtue of his pretended authority, and
caused the same to be filed for record.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

5. That at and before the location of such scrip, defendant
Patrick was in possession of the priemises, and had attempted
to acquire title to the same by preemption, but in that respect
was unsuccessful, and that said scrip was pro6ured and located
by him for his own benefit,'and to acquire a title which he
could-not acquire under the preemption act$.
6. That in furtherance of said scheme, the said Patrick procured the enactment of an act of Congress, approved February
2, 1869, confirming the title to .the land in .question to the
parties holding by deed from the patentee..
7.- That the said Patrick never informed the said Sophia or
her husband, or any one related to her by blood, "that he had
procured and located said scrip, or that he had procured said
blank instruments and filled them out, or had caused a deed
to be executed conveying to himself the real estate hereinbefore described, or/that he claimed any ownership therein; but,
on the contrary, fraudulently concealed, the same and exercised every precaution to prevent said proceedings coming to
the knowledge of said parties;" that, recognizing the frailty
of his title, he endeavored for several years to secure the execution of a deed by the said Sophia and her husband without
letting them know the character of the instrument whereby
they would convey to him in fee the said property, and to
that end procured his father to write a letter, a copy of which
was made an exhibit; that all the acts heretofore stated were
in the execution of an unlawful scheme to wrong and defraud
said Sophia out of said scrip and property; that the instruments executed as aforesaid by her and her husband were not
intended by them± to be used for the purpose of conveying the
said property to any person whatsoever, or to authorize such
conveyance by any other person, and no consideration was received by either of them for the 'scrip; but that Patrick has
claimed and still claims and asserts ownership in the premises
ever since the location of said scrip.
8. That a large part of said land has been platted and recorded, divided into lots, and sold by warranty deed to others,
who are made defendants as purchasers from him of particular descriptions given in the bill.

FELIX v. PATRICK.
Statement of the Case.

9. That these grantees had notice of infirmities, if not
actual fraud. attaching to the title of Patrick, since among
other things the power of attorney and deed are dated nearly
two years prior to the scrip location; that on July 3, 1863,
the United States issued to the said Sophia Felix its. patent
for the premises, which was filed for record on July 25, 1863.
10. That the said Sophia; Garnelle died December, 1865,
and during her lifetime had no knowledge that Patrick had
secured and located said scrip; had no knowledge that the
power of attorney and quitclaim deed had been filled out
or used in any manner, or placed on record; and had n6
knowledge as to the disposition made of such scrip, or of
the acts of the said Patrick; that the plaintiffs, who are the
heirs at law of the said Sophia Felix, had no knowledge whatever of the facts set forth until 1881, when, under a certain
treaty with the Sioux Indians, they became citizens of the
United States; and that prior to this time they had maintained their tribal relations with the Sioux Indians, and were,
by acts of Congress, inhibited and barred from instituting any
action in any of the courts, Federal or state, in the United
States, were denied access to the said courts, and had no
legal standing therein as a party.
11. That Patrick and those claiming under him ought not
to be permitted to hold such real estate, but should surrender
the same to the plaintiffs, in view of the fact that said scrip,
under the treaty of Prairie du Chien, and the act of Congress
of July 11T, 1854, could not be sold, assigned or transferred
directly or indirectly; that Patrick received said scrip in trust
for said Sophia, and located the same in trust for her, and
holds possession of the land as trustee for her and her heirs,
and ought not to be allowed to assume any adverse relation to
the plaintiffs ; that he ought also to account for the rents, issues
and profits of said land for all the time he has had possession
thereof, etc.; prayer, that he be declared a trustee; that the
power of attorney and quitclaim deed be declared fraudulent
and void, and a cloud uqpon plaintiffs' title, and be cancelled;
that the act of Congress confirming Patrick's title to the lands
be declared unconstitutional and void; that the defendanta
VOL. CXLV-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Mr. Shipman's argument for appellants.

surrender possession of the land to the plaintiffs; and that the
said Patrick account for the rents and profits, etc.
There were three separate demurrers filed; to this bill by
Patrick and several of the other defendants, principally upon
the ground of want of equity and laches>: Upon hearing in the
court below the bill. was dismissed, (36 Fed. Rep. 457,) and
the plaintiffs appealed to this court.
Mr. William D. Shipman for appellants, on the question of
laches said:
The appellees confront us with the claim that, granting the
void character of the *pretended deeds to Patrick, and the
power of attorney in which he inserted the name of Ruth, and
the description of the land, still the appellants are entitled to
no relief because they delayed their, suit for that relief too
long. To this defence we answer: (1) This suit was commenced as soon as the fraud practised on these appellants, by
the disposition attempted to be made of their property, was
discovered by them, and that if the appellants had been white
persons, their relief would 'not be barred on account of lapse
of time; (2) That the appellants were, .from their birth, down
.to the 29th of August, 1887, tribal Ijidians, under such conditiQns of wardship, pupilage, constraint, dependence and disabilities, that no statute of limitations, or lapse of time, could
run against them or bar their right to relief, while those conditions remained.
I. The bill alleges that suit was brought as soon as the fraud
was discovered. But the appellees, under the second head of
demurrer, claim that the appellants did not use due or reasonable diligence in discovering the fraud. That this defence is
without. merit or validity will appear by recurring to the
statute under which this scrip was issued. 10 Stat. 304, c. 83.
In a transaction like this, if the victims of the fraud had
been white persons, especially if they were ignorant, feebleminded and living far from the place where the land was sitiated and the fraudulent scheme enacted, they would not be
barred of relief by the time which elapsed in this case before
suit was brought. .Xickoud v. Girod, 4 How. 503.

FELIX v. PATICK.
Mr. Shipman's argument for appellants.

In Allore v. Jewell, 94 U. S. 506, this court refused to apply
a bar of the statute or the doctrine of laches where all the
facts were known to the complainant more than six years
before he commenced his suit. See also Griswold v. Hazard,
141 U. S. 260, 288 ; Bryan v. Kales, 134 U. S. 126, 135 ; Trevelyan v. Charter, 11 01. & Fin. 714 ;, Maloney v. L'DE trdnge,
Beatty, 406; Carpenterv. Canal Co., 35 Ohio St. 307; Oliver
v..Piatt, 3 How. 333, 411; Reynolds v. Sumner, 126 Illinois, 58.
In Prevost v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 481, Mr. Justice Story, in
delivering the opinion of this court, said: "It is certainly true
that length of time is no bar to a trust clearly established;
and in a case where fraud is imputed and proved, length of
time ought not, upon principles of eternal justice, to be admitted to repel relief." On the contrary, it would seem that
the length of time during "which the fraud has been successfully concealed and practised, is rather an aggravation of the
offence, and calls more loudly upon a court of equity to grant
ample and decisive relief."
II. I now'proceed to considei the condition of the appellants
as tribal Indians. This aspect of the case involves grave considerations, which go to the root of the public policy of the
United States in its treatment of the aboriginal inhabitants of
this continent. This tribunal has, for more than sixty years,
dealt with and often defeated the wrongs attempted against
the red man. The condition of -the latter appeals now with
greater pathos, and with a clearer warrant.of justice, for pro-.
tection against the acts, and especially against the frauds of
one of the. white .race. It is true they retain but a:remnant
of their former number and greatness; but they are still sufficiently numerous and formidable to call for constant oversight,
care and protection by the Federal government. Their care
and control absorb the time and attention of a large part of
the military force of the nation, and their oivil affairs require
the constant aid exclusive oversight of one of the most important administrative bureaus.
* The utterances of the courts, both Stdte and National, have
so uniformly recognized the disabilities of these people, and.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Mr. Shipman's argument for appellants.

their exemption from the legal rules and responsibilities which
govern and affect the dominant race, that they constitute one
of the "Trade winds of the law." This court is too familiar
with these utterances to require more than the few citations
which follow: Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 17; Fellows v. Blacksmith, 19 How. 366; .Kansas Indians, 5 Wall.
'737; New York Zndians, 5 Wall. 761 ; Ex _parte Crow Dog,
109 U. S. 556, 568; Elk v. Wilkins, 112 U. S. 94, 111; United
States v. Iragama, 118 U. S. 375, 383; Choctaw Nzation v.
rnited States, 119 U. S. 1.
It should be borne in mind that neither Sophia Felix,
nor thqse appellants, could, from the issuing of this scrip
to her duwn to the year 1887, when this suit was brought,
have instituted any suit in the courts of the United States
for the purpose of having these fraudulent transactions of
Patrick set aside, even had they known what he had done.
They were neither aliens nor citizens of the United States
and, therefore, did not come within the statutes conferring
jurisdiction on the latter. .farrahoo v. Adams, 1 Dillon,
344; c.Eay v. Campbdl, 2 Sawyer, 118, 135 ; EM v. TMVikins, 112 U. S. 94, 109.
I do not overlook the statement in the opinion below in
this case, that Indiang sometimes apply to the state courts
for redress of their wrongs. It is quite true that, in some
peculiar cases, they have done so, when they were compelled to as the only mode left to them by which they
could secure protection. As a rule they failed to secure
their rights from the state tribunals and had to appeal to
this court for redress.
In the face of the condition of these Indians, and the
declarations of this court in regard to the subjection to,
and dependence on, the government of the United States,
and their exemption from the laws of the States, can the
doctrine of laches, or that of adverse possession, or the
statute of limitations, be held to bar'their right to relief,,
because they did not do what was impossible, viz.: hunt
out and discover this fraud, of which they were ignoran •
and then bring a suit in the courts of the State of Nebraska?

FELIX v. PATR ICK.
Opinion of the Court.

.Ab'. John L. TFebster for appellees.
"1r. T C. Cowin (with whom was .3.
brief) closed for appellants.

J. H. Pa'sonson the

MR. JusTOic BRowN, after stating the case as above, 'delivered the opinion of the court.

There are really but two questions involved ift this case:.
(1) whether Patrick located -this scrip and took these lands
under the blank power of attorney and deed, as trustee for
Sophia Felix; and (2) whether the plaintiffs are estopped by
their own laches and those of Sophia Felix from insisting
that Patrick shall be decreed to hold the lands for their
benefit.
The facts of the case, briefly stated, are as follows: Sophia
Felix, a half-breed Indian, was entitled under an act of Congress of July 17, 1854, 10 Sfat. 304, c. 83, to certain scrip
which might be located upon any unoccupied land subject to
preemption or private sale, but. it was expressly 'provided in
the act that no transfer or conveyenee of such scrip should
be valid. In pursuance of this act, scrip was issued to her
in 1857, to the amount of 480 acres. The scrip itself no, being
assignable, some person (who it was does not appear) obtained possession of such scrip to the amount of 120 acres
from the said Sopia and her-husband, (she having in the
meantime married,) and also procured from them a power
of attorney and quitclaim deed, bearing date March 31, 1860,
and executed in blank. Nearly two years thereafter, and in
November, 1861, these were turned over (by whom it does
not appear) to Patrick, who located. the scrip upon the lands
in question, of which he had already been in possession for
some time,' and to which he had endeavored, though unsuc-.
cessfully, to acquire title by preemption, caused the name of
William Ruth to be inserted as attorney in the power, and
his own nanie as grantee in the quitclaim deed, after filling
in the description of this property; and on July 25, 1863, procured from Ruth under his power of attorney a warranty
deed to himself of the saiAe property. The description of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the land in the quitclaim deed seems to have been defective,
and in the meantime, viz.: July 3, 1863, a patent had issued
to Sophia Felix. Patrick has been in possession of these
lands ever since. A large part of the tract has been platted
and recorded as an addition to the city of Omaha, and is
divided into blocks and lots, intersected by streets, and a
large part of the lands have been sold to purchasers, whose
only notice of the infirmity in their title appears to have
been the fact that the power of attorney and quitclaim deed
were 0ated nearly two years prior to the scrip location.
1. The device of a blank power of attorney and quitclaim
deed was doubtless resorted to for the purpose of evading
the provision of the act of Congress that no transfer or conveyance of the scrip issued under such act should be valid.
This rendered it necessary that the scrip should be located in
the name and for the benefit of the person to whom it was
issued, but from the moment the scrip was located and the
title in the land vested in Sophia Felix, it became subject to
her disposition precisely as any other land would be. In
order, therefore, for the purchaser of this scrip from Sophia
Felix to make the same available, it became neceskry to
secure a poiver of attorney or a deed of the land, and as the
scrip had not then been located, and the person who should
locate it was unknown, the name of the grantee and the
description of the land must necessarily be left blank. Had
the notary, who took the acknowledgment, observed these
blanks, he would doubtless have declined to act until they
were filled out, particularly in view of the fact that the
grantors were Indians, and the scheme a palpable device to
evade the law against the assignment of the scrip. It is
pertinent in this connection to note the fact that the secretary
of State, whose certificate was made in June, 1861, certified
merely to the official character of the notary, while the clerk
of the District Court of the county, whose certificate was
made August 20, 1863, after the scrip was located, and the
blanks in 4he instrument filled out, certifies that the same
were executed and acknowledged according to the laws of
the State
of Minnesota. As the bill alleges that Patrick
I

FELIX v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

obtained possession of these instruments while still in blank,
he is clearly chargeable with notice that they were intended
as a device to evade the law against the assignment of scrip.
Having, then, no right to, locate the scrip for his own
benefit, he must be deemed to have located it for Sophia
Felix, and as her representative. It was declared by this
court as early as 1810, in the case of _Massie v. -fWatt&, 6
Oranch, 148, that if an agent located land for himself which
he ought to locate for his principal, he is in equity a trustee
for his principal. In that case the defendant Massie had
c racted.with one O'Neal to locate and survey for him a
military warrant for 4000 acres in his name. Massie located
the warrant with the proper surveyor, and, being himself a
surveyor, fraudulently made a survey purporting to be a
survey of the entry, but variant from the same, so that the
land actually surveyed was not the land entered with the
surveyor. This was done for the fraudulent purpose of giving
way to a claim of the defendant's which he surveyed on the
land entered for the plaintiff, whereby the plaintiff lost the
land, and defendant obtained the legal title. This court held
that Massie held such land as trustee for O'Neal. "But
Massie," said Chief Justice Marshall, (p. 169,) "the agent of
O'Neal, has entered and surveyed a portion of -that land for
himself, and obtained a patent for it in his own name.
According to the clearest and best established principles of
equity, the agent who so acts -becomes a trustee for his
principal. He cannot hold the land under an entry for himself otherwise than as trustee for his principal." This case
was subsequently cited with approval in Irvine v. .Marshall,
20 How. 558. So in Brush v. Ware, 15 Pet. 93, where an
executor obtained a certificate for 4000 acres of land, and
afterwards sold and assigned the same, when it appeared
under the -Will that he had no right to, sell the land, it was
held'that the purchaser to whom the patent was subsequently
issued, took with notice of the prior title of the heirs, and was
bound to make the conveyance asked from him. To the same
effect are Stark v. Starrs,6 Wall. 402, 419 ; -feader v. Nforton,
1l Wall. 442, 458. Ard in Widdicombe v. Childers, 124

'OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 400, 405, it was held that a person who had obtained a
patent to lands whih the patentee 'knew he had no right to
claim, took the legal title subject to the superior equities of
the rightful owner. In delivering the opinion, Chief Justice
Waite said: "The holder of a legal title in bad faith must
always yield to a superior equity. As against the United
States his title may be good, but not as against one who had
acquired a prior right from the United States in force when
his purchase was made under which his patent issued. The
patent vested him with the legal title, but it did not deternine
the equitable relations between him and third persons." See
also 3forris v. Jose2pi, 1 West Va. 256.
The substance of these authorities is that, whenever a person obtains the legal title. to land by any artifice or concealment, or by making use of facilities intended for the benefit
of aiother, a court of equity will impress upon the lands so
held by him a trust in favor of the party who is justly entitled
to them, and will order the trust executed by decreeing their
conveyance to the party in whose favor the trust was created.
It is of no consequence in this connection that Sophia Felix
-was ignorant of the defendafit's acts, or of the trust thereby
created, since she was at liberty, upon disco-vering it, to affirm
the trust and enforce its executi6n. , Bank, of .Metropolis v.
Guttschlick, 14 Pet. 19, 31; .Mofes . furgatroyd, 1 Johns.
Oh. 119; Cumberlancl v. Codrington, 3 Johns. Ch. 229, 261;
_veilson v. Blight, 1 Johns. Gas. 205; Westom v. Barker, 12
Johns. 276.
I It needs no argument to show that no additional right was
acquired by Patrick under.the acts of July 25, 1868, and February 2, 1869, confirming the title to the lands to the parties
holding by deed from the patentee. Such act might dstop
the government itself from taking proceedings to cancel the
patent already issued, or to oust Patrick, but tq h6ld it operative as affecting the rights of third parties would be virtually
recognizing judicial power in the legislature. In no possible
view of legislative authority, can it be assumed that an act of
Congress can declare that lands to A-hich one party is by law
entitled, shall belong to another.

FELIX v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

In addition to this, however, Patrick was not a man "holding by deed from the patentee" within the meaning of the
law. The power of attorney and quitclaim deed, being in
blank when they passed from the possession of Sophia Felix,
were inoperative to convey her title to any particular land.
Nor, under the allegations of this bill, can it be claimed that
she ever authorized these blanks to be filed, since it is averred
that the instruments were procured fraudulently and without
consideration, and neither the person to whom she delivered
them, nor Patrick himself, could be considered her agent for
filling out the blanks. Such agency, if it exists at all, must
be exercised before the deed is delivered: In order to pass
the legal title to lands something more is-necessary than the
signature of the grantor to a blank instrument. There must
be an intent to convey, and the delivery of a ldeed for the purpose of vesting a present title in the grantee, and a deed delivered without the consent of the grantor is of no more effect
to pass title than if it were a forgery. Iibblewite v. -MeMorine, 6 M. & W. 200; Davidson v. Cooper, 11 M. & W.
778, 793; Burns v. Lynde, 6 Allen, 305; Everts v. Agnes, 4
Wisconsin, 343; S. C. 6 Wisconsin, 453; Tiske6 v. Beokwith,
30 Wisconsin, 55; Eadlock v. Hadlock, 22 Illinois, 384; Stanley v. Falentine,79 Illinois, 544; Henry v. Carsoi,96 Indiana,
412; Fitzgerald v. Goff, 99 Ivrdiana, 28. At best, the deed,
being a quitclaim, conveyed only the interest of the grantor
at the date of its delivery, which was nothing. .Nichols v.
.]ASieols, 3 Chandler (Wis.) 18.9; lamb v. Davenport, 1 Saw-yer, 604, 638.
2. The most important question in this case, however, the
question upon which its restilt must ultimately depend, is that
of laches. While, upon the facts stated, Patrick took these
lands as trustee for Sophia Felix, he did not take them -under
an express trust to hold -them for her benefit, (in which case
lapse of time would be immaterial,) but under an implied or
constructive trust -a trust created by operation of law, and
arising from the illegal practices resorted to in obtaining the
power of attorney and deed. Patrick did not take possession
under any acknowledged obligation to her, but he located

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

them for his own use and benefit; his possession from the
very beginning was. adverse to hers. Under such circuimstances, the law raises an obligation upon the part of the
cestui que trust to make use of reasonable diligence in discovering and unearthing the fraud, and inapplying to the courts.
for legal redress. In this case 28 years elapsed from the time
the scrip was procured of Sophia Felix, and nearly 27 years
from the time it went into the possession of Patrick, before
the bill was filed. It admits of no doubt that if Sophia Felix
and these plaintiffs had been ordinary white citizens, under no
legal disabilities, such as those arising from infancy, lunacy.or
coverture, this lapse of time would be fatal to a recovery; at
least unless it were conclusively shown that knowledge of the
fraud was not obtained, and could not by reasonable diligence
have been discovered, within a reasonable time after it was,,
perpetrated.
In reply to this defence of laches, plamtits rely mainly
upon the fact that Sophia F61ix and her heirs were at the.
time, and continued to be until 1887, tribal Indians, members
of the -Sioux nation, residing upon their reservation in the
State of Minnesota, and incapable of suing in any of the
courts of the United States. We are by no means insensible
to the force of this suggestion. Whatever may lhave been the
injustice visited upon this unfortunate race of people by their
white neighbors, this court has repeatedly held them to be
the wards of the nation, entitled to a special protection in its
courts, and as persons "in a state of pupilage." Congress,
too, .has recognized their dependent condition, and their hope-less inability to withstand the wile-s or cope with the power of
the superior race, by imposing restrictions upon their power
to alienate lands assigned to them in severalty, either by making their scrip non-assignable, as in this case, or'by requiring
the.assent of the President to their execution of deeds as in the
case of Pieatingv. Lomax, ante, 310,.decided at this term. We
.fully coincide with what was said by Mr. Justice Davis in the'
case of the K ansas .ndians,5 Wall. '731,7.8, that "the conduct
of Indians is not to be measured bv the same standard which
we apply to the conduct of other people." But their very anal-

FELIX v. PATRICK.
Opinion of the Court.

ogy to persons under guardianship suggests a limitation to
their pupilage, since the utmost term of disability of an infant
is but 21 years, and it is very rare that the relations of guardian and ward under any circumstances, even those of lunacy,
are maintained for a longer period than this. It is practically
admitted in this case that, in 1881, when their relations with
their tribe were severed by accepting allotments of land in
severalty under the treaty of April 29, 1818, they became
citizens of the United States; that they were then chargeable
with the same diligence as white people in the disaovery of
this fraud; and, as their bill was .filed in 1888, it is claimed
that they fulfilled all the requirements of law in this particular. While, as alleged in the bill, their discovery of this
fraud may have been contemporaneous with their becoming
citizens of the United States there is no palpable connection
between the one fact and the other, and we think the bill is
defective in failing to show how the fraud came to be discovered, and why it was not discovered before. A simple
letter to the Land Department at any time after this scrip
was located would have enabled them to identify the land,
and the name of the person who had located it; and it is difficult to see why, if they had ever suspected the misuse of this
scrip, they had not made inquiries long before they did, or
why their emancipation in 1881 should. have suddenly awakened their diligence in this particular. There is, it is true, an
averment that Patrick never informed the said Sophia or her
husband that he had located such scrip, but, on the contrary,
fraudulently concealed the same, and exercised every precaution to prevent such proceedings coming to the knowledge of
the party. But no acts of his in this connection are averred
in the bill, and we are left to infer that his concealment was
that of mere silence, which, is not enough. Wood v. Carpenter,
101 U. S. 135, 143 ; Boydv. Boyd, 27 Indiana, 429 ; Tynne v.
Cornelison, 52 Indiana, 312. Indeed, his concealment is to a
certain extent negatived by the fact that he put the power of
attorney and deed upon record, in the proper county, shortly
after their execution. It was held by this court in Badger v.
Badger, 2 Wall. 94, in speaking of the excuses for laches,

332

OCTOBER TER-M, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

that "the party who makes such appeal should sef-forth in
his bill, specifically, what were the impediments to the earlier
prosecution of his claim; how he came to be so long ignorant
of his rights, and the means used by the respondent to fraudulently keep him in ignorance; and how, and when, he first
came to a knowledge of the matters alleged in his bill; otherwise the chancellor may justly refuse to consider his case,
upon his own-showing, without inquiring whether there is a
demurrer or formal plea of the st atuteL of limitations contained
in the answer." Sophia Felix and her husband must have
known that she had parted with thescrip, yet she lived until
1865, and h~r husband until 1882, without apparently making
any attempt to discover what had become of it. Nor did
their heirs. apparently make any effort to discover it until
1887, when their intelligence seems to have stLddenly sprung
into activity upon their becoming citizens of the United
States. It is scarcely necessary to say in this connection that,
vhile until this time they were not citizens of the. United
States, capable of suing as such in the Federal courts, the
courts of Nebraska were open to them as they are to all persons irrespective of race or color. Swar'tzel v. Rogers, 3
Kansas, 374; Blue Jacket v. Johnson County, 3 Kansas, 299;
Wiley v. K~eokuk,,O 'ansas, 94. It was said by this court in
Wood v. Ca'renter,-101 U. S. 135, 140, that in this class of
caseh the plaintiff is held to stringent rules of pleadings and
evidence, and especially must there be distinct averments as to
the time when the fraud, mistake, concealment or misrepresentation was discovered, and what the discovery was, so that
the court may clearly see whether by ordinary diligence the
discovery might not have been before made. See also Stearns
v. Page,7 How. 819, 829 , TFollensak v. Reiher, 115 U. S. 96;
Godden v. ffimmdl, 99 U, S. 201, 211. The mere fact that
in 1887 these plaintiffs took their lands in severalty and became citizens, does not adequately explain how they so quickly
,became cognizant of this 'fraud, or why they had remained so
long in ignorance of it.
But, conceding that. the plaintiffs were-inmapable, so long as
they maintained their tribal relati6ns, of being affected with

FELIX v. PATRICK.

383

Opinion of the Court.

laches, and that these relations were not dissolved until 1887,
when they were first apprised of their right to this land, it
does not necessarily follow that they are entitled t& the
relief demanded by this bill. The real question is, whether
equity demands that a party, who, 2S years ago, was unlawfully deprived of a certificate of muniment of title of the
value of $150, shall now be put in the possession of property
admitted to be worth over a million. The disproportion
is so great that the conscience is startled, and the inquiry
is at once suggested, whether it can be possible that the
defendant has been guilty of fraud so gross as to involve consequences so disastrous. .In a court of equity, at least, the
punishment should not be disproportionate to the offence, and
the very magnitude of the consequences in this case demands,
of us that we should consider carefully the nature of the
wrong done by the defendant in acquiring the title to these
lands. He. is not charged in the bill with having been a
party to the means employed in obtaining the scrip from
Sophia Felix, or with b6ing in collusion with the unknown
person who procured it from her. More than that, the
allegations of this bill do not satisfy us that she did not
e-for the scrip. It is true, there are general
receive full
averments that the power of attorney and quitclaim deed
were obtained ".by wicked devices and fraudulent means;"
that she never parted with her title to or interest in the scrip,
and was the absolute owner thereof; that the blank instruments were not intended to be used for the purpose of conveying this property; and that no consideration was ever
received for the scrip. But in view of the fact that she and
her husbaid are long since dead, and the party who procured
it from her is unknown, it is very improbable that the plaintiffs could prove these facts, or the nature of the original
transaction. It is evident that she intended to part with the
scrip to some one, and the recital of a nominal consideration
in a quitclaim deed is entitled to very little weight as evidence of the actual consideration.
H6w~ver this may be, taking all the allegations, of this
bill together, it is very evident that Patrick bought these,

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

muniments of title as hundreds of others bought them - in
violation of the letter and policy of the law, but without
actually intending to defraud Sophia Felix or any other person. The law pronounces the transaction a fraud upon her,
but it lacks the element of wickedness necessary to constitute
moral turpitude. If there had been a deliberate attempt on
his part by knavish- practices to beguile or wheedle her out
,of these lands, we should have been strongly inclined to
afford the plaintiffs relief at any time- during the life of
either of the parties; but; as the case stands at present, justice requires only what the law, in the absence of the statutory Jimitition would demand - the repayment of the value
of'the scrip-with legal interest thereon.
Much reliance is .placed upon a 'ertain letter written by
the defendant's agent and father to one Otis, bearing date
-September 21, 1863, authorizing him to procure the signature of Sophia and her. husband to certain papers, for which
imated that this should be
he was to pay $100, and it was in,
done -without giving the partietsany particular information.
This letter is of little value, except as indicating that defendant desired to strengthen his title by purchasing whatever
claim Sophia and her -husband might have had to it, if it
could be done at a slight expense. It is sufficient answer to
it to say that nothing evei appears to have -been done under
it, or by virtue of it , and it affords too feeble an indication
of previous fraud to be entitled to any weight in that connection.
There are other considqerations which require to be noticed
in this connection. By the foresight and sagacity of this
.defendant this scrip was located upon lands within the limits
of one of the most thiiving and rapidly growing cities of the.
West. That which wasWild -land thirty years ago is now
intersected by streets), subdivided into- blocks and lots, and
largely occupied by persons who have bought upon the
strength of :Patrick's title, &Ad have erected buildings of a
The bill charges
permanent character upon.theiiruirchase.
all.these with notice-of the defee in Patrick's title, and piays
that the convevances to them be declared null* and void, and
-

