OCTOBER TERI, 1891. .
Statement of tbe Pase.

BROWN v. SMART.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF MA-RYLAfD.
1wo. 163. Submitted January 18, 1892.--Decided May 16, 1892.

An insolvent law'of a; State, providing that any conveyance of property
within the State, made by a citizen of the State, being insolvent, within
,four months before the commencement of proceedings in ifisolvency,
and containing preferences, shall be void, and shall be A cause for adjudging him insolvent and appointing an assignee to take and distribute
his property, does.not, as applied to a case in which the' preferred creditors are citizens of other States, impair any right of the debtor under
the Constitution of the United States; and such an adjudication, though
made without notice to such creditors, and declaring void the conveyafice made for their benefit, cannot, upon its affirmance by the highest
court of the State, be reviewed by this court on a writ of error sued out
by the debtor. only.

Tins was a petitionto the court of common pleas of Baltimore City, for an adjudication of insolvency, and the setting
aside of an unlawful preference, under the insolvent act of the
State of Marylafid, which enacts that any conveyance containing preferences (with exceptions not material to this case)
by a merchant or trader, being insolvent, shall be unlawful
and void, and shall be deemed an act of insolvency, provided
a petition in insolvency shall be filed by any creditor within
four months afterwards; and that, upon such petition alleging the facts, and upon notice to the debtor, and proof of the
allegations, an adjudication shall be made by the court that
the debtor is insolvent, and thereupon his right and power to
dispose of any part of his property shall cease, and, as soon as
a trustee to manage 'and distribute his estate shall have been
appointed by the court and shall have given bond, the whole
property of the insolvent shall be divested out of him and be
vested in the trustee. Maryland Code of Public General Laws
of 1860, art. 48, as amended by Stats. 1880, c. 172, §§ 13, 23,
21, and 1886, c. 298;. Code of 1888, art. 47, §§ 14, 22, 23.
This petition was filed December 81 1887, by Theodore B.
Smart and others, partners, and creditors in the sum of $600
:of Solomon Brown, a merchant of Baltimore; and prayed the

BROWN v. SMART.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

court to adjudicate Brown ah insolvent debtor, to appoint a
trustee, and to decree fraudulent and void a conveyance made
by him, being insolvent, on November 30, 1887, of all his property, including his stock of goods in his store in Baltimbre,
and all his debts, accounts and, choses in action, to Isaac
Eichberg of Alexandria, in the State of Virginia, preferring
certain of his creditors, citizens of other States, whose debts
were for money lent at varipus times from December 29, 1886,
to September 30, 1887, under contracts made and to be performed in those States, and who were preferred in consideration of their agreement, expressed in the conveyance, to accept
the provisions thereof in full satisfaction of their debts, and to
acquit and discharge him of any part of those debts remaining
unsatisfied out of the proceeds of the property conveyed. The
petition prayed for a subpoena to Brown, to Eichberg and to
each of the preferred creditors.
Brown alone was served with a subpcena, and appeared,
and admitted the facts 'alleged in the petition and above
stated; but denied that the conveyance created an unlawful
preference, because all the creditors preferred therein resided
out of the State of Maryland, and were creditors on contracts
made and to be performed out of the State, and had agreed to
accept the provisions of the conveyance in full satisfaction of
their debts; and also denied that the court had any jurisdiction to decide upon the validity and effect of 'the conveyance,
and especially because the court -had acquired no jurisdiction
of the trustee or of'the creditors named therein.
The court overruled both defences, and entered an order
adjudicating Brown to be an insolvent, declaring void the
conveyance by him to Eichberg, and appointing a trustee to
take possession of all his property.
Brown appealed tothe Court of Appeals of Maryland, Which
affirmed the order. 69 Maryland, 320. Brown then sued out
this writ of error.
Mt. Charles .Marshallfor plaintiff in error.
If the Insolvent Law of Maryland, ,as expounded by the
Court of Appeals of that State, warrants the judgment in

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
w
Argument for Plaintifflh

rror.

this case, declaring the deed of trust from Brown to Eichberg
to be void, neither Eichberg the trustee nor the foreign credi
-tors secured by the deed being parties, and it not being possible to make them parties to this suit, it. is submitted that
it comes in collision to that extent with the Constitution of
the United States. 14th Amendment, section 1.
The court will also observe that the insolvent law itself,
seotion 24, contains a provision that when a-deed is made by
any person belonging to any of the classes mentioned in section 14, when insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency
"cthe same shall be prk n facie intended to hinder, delay
and defraud the creditors of the person by whom the same is
made, and the burden of proof shall rest upon him and the
grantee to explain the same, and show the bona,§des thereof."
Now, this section evidently contemplates that the grantee
shall have an opportunity to be heard in defence of his rights, and yet the law contains no provision for notice to him of any
kind, and if it did, it is not pretended that he, if a citizen of
another State, could be legally required to submit himself to
the jurisdiction of the insolvent court of Maryland.
Yet, by the judgmeni of the Court of Appeals in this case,
that law warrants the insolvent court in pronouncing upon
the rights of the grantee in his absence, and in the absence of
power to make him a party to the proceeding in insolvency.
If the law is void as thus expounded, because repugnant to
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, any judgment enforcing such a law is void as to all
parties affected by it, including the plaintiff in error in this
case.
It is respectfully submitted that the insolvent law of Maryland, so far as it is held to warrant such a judgment as that
complained of here, attempts to do what no State can do. In
the language of this court in Cook v. 7±1ojatt, 5 How. 295, the
State of Maryland has attempted to "inflict her bankrupt
laws on.contracts and persons not within her limits," and to
do that, has by her law, as expounded by the Court of Appeals, made provision for adjudicating upon the rights of persons who neither are nor can be brought within her jurisdic-

BROWNT v. SMART.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. As expounded by the Court of Appeals, the law is an
attempt on the. part of the State to exercise powers that be
long to Congress only.
Charles A. Boston for defend.Mr.X. R. W'alter and "I1r.
ants in error.
MR.JusTTnic

GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The principles which underlie this case are clearly established by the decisions of this court. So long as- there is no
national bankrupt act, each State has full authority to pass
insolvent laws binding persons and property within its jurisdiction, provided it does not impair the obligation of existing
contracts; but a State cannot by such a law discharge one of
its own citizens from his contracts with citizens of other.
States, though made after the passage of the law, unless they
voluntarily become parties to, the proceedings in insolvency.
Sturges v. Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122; Ogden v. Saunders,
12 Wheat. 213; Baldwin v. Bale, 1 Wall. 223; Gilman v.
Lockwood, 4 Wall.409. Yet each State, so long as it does
not impair the obligation of any contract, has the power by
general laws to regulate the conveyance and disposition of all
property, personal or real; within its limits and jurisdiction.
Smith v. Union Bank, 5 Pet. 518, 526; Crapo v. KYelly, 16
Wall. 610, 630; .Denny v. Bennett, 128 U. S.489, 498; TFal"
worth v. Harris,129 V. S.355; Geilinger v. Philippi,133
U. S.246, 257; Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania,141 U. S.
18, 22. In Denny v. Bennett, above cited, the law upon this
subject was well summed up by Mr. Justice Miller, speaking
for the court, as follows: "The objection to the extraterritorial operation of a state insolvent law is that it cannot, like
the bankrupt law passed by Congress under its constitutional
grant of power, release all debtors from the obligation of the
debt.' The authority to deal with the property of the debtor
within the State, so far as it does not impair the obligation of
contracts, is conceded."

OCTOBER TERMT,

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

A provision of the insolvent law of a State, that all conveyances, by way of preference, of any property within its borders, made by a citizen of the State, being insolvent, and
within four months before the commencement of proceedings
in insolvency, shall be void, is a usual and a valid exercise of
the power of the State over property within its jurisdiction,'
as to all such c6nveyances made after the passage of the law,
whether to its own citizens or to citizens of other States.
. But even if it should be held that such a law could not invalidate such a conveyance so far as citizens of other States
are concerned, it is clearly valid so far as it makes the conveyance an act of insolvency, sufficient to support an adjudication
of insolvency, and the appointment of a trustee or assignee
to take and distribute among creditors any propdrty which may
lawfully come to his possession. The State might enact that
conveyances preferring particular creditors, if made in good
fai
should be valid.so far as concerned them, and yet provide that, so far as the debtor was concerned, the preference
showed such a disregard of the*rights of other creditors as
would justify adjudging the debtor to be insolvent, and appointing a trustee or assignee to take possession of and distribute any property not included in the conveyance.
In the case before us the only plaintiff in error 'is the insolvent himself. The position taken by him in the court below,
but not argued in this court, that the obligation of a contract
with him has been unconstitutionally impaired, is clearly
untenable, because the statute of the State was in existence
when the contract was made, and the subsequent decision of
the Court of Appeals was not a law, within the meaning of
the provision of the Constitution which declares that no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
New Orleans lVaterworks v. .ouisiana Co., 125 U. S.i8.
The only provision of the Constitution of the United States,
now relied on by the plaintiff in error, is the first section of
the Fourteenth Amendment, which forbids any State to deprive
any person of property withunt due process of law. But the
plaintiff in error has been deprived of no right by the judgment below. There is no doubt of the validity of that judg-

