BAKER'S EXECUTORS v. KILGORE.
Syllabus.

that he agreed to the substitution, only because induced by
Warner and Smith to believe that they then held the notes he
had given to his brdther Nathan, and for which the mortgage
of 1875 was collateral security, as between him and his
brother, is inconsistent with any reasonable inference from
the undisputed facts of the case. Even if that suggestion
were supported by the evidence, the relief asked ought not to
be granted, because, as already shown, Warner and Smith,
trustees, had the right originaly to hold the mortgage of 1875
as security for Nathan's debts to Upham; and that security
having been surrendered by them to Edward Matthews in
consideration of the transfer of the railroad bonds and promissory note described in the agreement of 1877, to be held as
collateral security for Nathan's d-bts, Edward could *not,in
equity, reclaim those bonds and the Furber note, or recover
their proceeds, without restoring the security for which they
were substituted. The suit is wholly without merit, and it is
unnecessary to cite authorities to support the conclusions
reached by the court.
Decree affirmed.
MRI. JUsTicE GRAY

did not hear the argument or take part

in the decision.

BAKER'S EXECUTORS v. KILGORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNES'SEE.
lNo. 322. Argued and submitted April 20,1892.-Decided May 16, 1692.

The act of the legislature of Tennessee of March 26, 1879, c. 14-1, providing
that " the rents and profits of any property or estate of a married woman,
which she now owns or may hereafter become seized or possessed of
. . shall in no manner be subject to the debts or contracts of her
husbatid, except by her consent," does not take away oi infringe upon
any-vested right of the husband, or any right belonging to his creditors,
and does not deny any right or privilege sedured by the Constitution of
the United States.

OCTOBER TERI,

488

1891.

Opinion of the Court.

TEE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. F. A. Reeve, for plaintiff in error,_ submitted on his
brief.
.Mr. .en'y I
MR. JUsTiCE

Jngersoll for defendants in error.

HuLALN

delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was commenced, October 12, 1886, before a
Justice of the Peace of Greene County, Tennessee, and involves the right of property in three heifers and one steer,
levied upon as the property of Frederick Scruggs, but claimed
by his wife to belong to her, and not subject to seizure or sale
for the debts of her husband. Judgment having been rendered for her, the case was carried by appeal to the Circuit,
Court of that county..
It appears that Scruggs and wife were married about eighteen years before the commencement of this action, and lived,
during most of their married life, on lands deeded to her, as
follows: one hundred and thirty acres, by deed of January 1,
1881; two hundred and seventy-four acres, by deed of April
19, 1877; one hundred and eight acres, by deed of -May 8,
1886. The deeds to Mrs. Scruggs were in'fee simple, bit did
not create a technical separate estate. Some years prior to
this litigation her husband failed in busimess, after which he
attended to his wife's affairs, trading for her in stock, hogs,
etc., and superintending farm work; etc., as her agent. He
occasionally traded in live stock for himself. 'rom 1879 to
1881 he engaged, in the name of his father, in merchandising
in a house in the yard of the home dwelling lot, and from
1881 to 1884 in the name -of his brother William, and with
their money, he receiving and keeping all the profits. He and
Mrs. Scruggs took from the store whatever each wanted, paid
hands on the farm partly out of it, and put back into the store
the proceeds of the farm, but without strict account being kept
between them as husband and wife, or betweenthem and Willi&m Scruggs, as in the case of. strangers. The husband did

BAKER'S EXECUTORS v. KILGORE.
Opinion of the Court.

not keep the wife's funds strictly separate from his own, but
often commingled them.
In the spring of 1884 he sold some cattle belonging to the
wife for about $200; and afterwards bought two head of
young cattle for her with part of this money. In- September
or October following he purchased one other steer for her
with the proceeds of what was raised on her farmns, and while
the cattle were pasturing together, another calf came from
one of her cows. They were levied on as the property of the
husband under an execution issued September 10, 1886, which
was based upon a judgment against him, in favor of one Scott,
rendered September 22, 1876. At the execution sale Baker,
the testator of the plaintiffs in error, became the purchaser of
the cattle, having at the time notice from Mrs. Scruggs that
they belonged to her, and, if sold, would be replevied as her
property.
The trial court found that the cattle in question were the
property of the wife, having been bought with the proceeds
of her estate; that a certain act of the general -assembly of
Tennessee, passed March 26, 1879, c. 141, upon which the wife
relied- and which will be presently referred to -was not, as
claimed by the defendant, in violation either of the Constitution of the United States or of that of Tennessee, prohibiting
the impairment of the obligation of contracts, and did not
deprive the husband or his creditors of any vested rights; and
that said act protected the cattle-from any execution sued out
against the property of the husband. Judgment was accordingly rendered for Mrs. Scruggs.
Upon appeal to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, the judgment was
rffiimed, the court holding that the act of 1879 was
not obnoxious to the Constitution of the United States.
By the law of Tennessee in force When the judgment of
September 22,1876, was rendered against Scruggs, the interest
of a husband in the real estate of his wife, acquired by her,
either before or after marriage, by gift, devise descent or in
any other mode, could not be sold or disposed of by virtue of
any judgment, decree or execution against him; nor could
the husband sell his wife's real estate during her life without

OCTOBER TERM,. 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

her joining in the conveyance in the manne. ,--.ribed for
conveyances of land by maried women. Laws of Tennessee,
1849, 111, c. 36, § 1; Code of Tennessee, 1858, § 2481; Id.
1884, § 3338. In Lucas v..Rickrich, 1 Lea, 726, it was held
that the act of 1849 did not affect -theright of the husband to
.take the rents and profits of the wife's real estate. 'This deon,it was said in Tdylor v. Taylor, 12 Lea, 490, 495, led
tpthe passage of the act of March 26, 1879, which, repealing
all' prior laws in conflict with it, provided: "H3ereaftdr the
rents and profits of any property or estate of a married
woman, which she now owns or may hereafter become seized
or possessed of, either by purchase, devise, gift or inheritance, as a separate estate, -or for years, or for life, or as a feesimple estate, shall in no nanner be subject to the debts or
contracts of her husband, Iexcept by her consent, obtained
in writing: Provided, That the act shall in no manner interfere with the husband's tenancy. by the curtesy." Acts of
Tennessee, 1879, 182, c. 141; .-Milliken & Vertrees' Code,

1884, § 3343.
The cattle in dispute were, within the meaning of that act,
profits of the wife's lands.
The plaintiff in error contends that when the act of 1879
was passed the judgment creditor of Scruggs had a right of
which he could not be deprived by legislation, to subject to
his demand any property vested in the husband; and that it
was not competent for.the legislature to exempt the rents and
profits of the wife's estate from liability for the debts and
contracts of the husband, existing at the time such immunity"
was declared.
We do not doubt the validity of the act of 1879, as applied
to the judgment previously rendered against Scruggs. The
particular profits of the wife's estate here in dispute had not,
when that act was passed, come to the hands of the husband.
They were not, at that-time, in existence, nor in any legal
sense, vested in him. Nor were they ever vested in him. He
had a mere expectancy with reference to them when the act
was passed. Moreover, his right,_prior to that enactment, to
take the profits of his wife's estate did not come from con-

BAKER'S EXECUTORS v. KILGORE.
Opinion of the Court.

tract between him and his wife or between him and the State,
but from a rule of law established by the legislature, and resting alone upon public considerations arising out of the marriage relation. It was entirely *competent for the legislature
to change thdt rule in respect, at least, to the future rents and
profits of the wife's estate. Such legislation is for the protec
tion of the property of the wife, and neither impairs nor defeats any vested right of the husband. Marriage is a civil institution, a status, in reference to which Mr. Bishop has well
said, "public interests overshadow private -one which public
policy.holds specially in the hands of the law for the public
good, and over which the law presides in a manner not known
in the other departments." 1 Bishop on Marriage, Divorce and
Separation, § 5. The relation of husband and wife is, therefore, formed subject to the power of the State to control and
regulate both that relation and the property rights directly
connected with it, by such legislation as does not violete those
fundamental principles which have been established for the
protection of private and personal rights against illegal- interference.
If the act of 1879 did not infringe any vested right of the
husband, much less did it infringe any right belonging to his
creditors.
The views we have expressed are supported by the judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee in Taylor v. Tayor,
12 Lea., 490, 498, where it was held that the acts of 1849 and
1879,,above referred to, were enacted for the benefit of married women, not of their husbands, and that a husband has no

vested right to the future profits of his wife's land that prevents the enactment of such a statute as that of 1879.
As the judgment did not withhold or deny any right or
privilege secured by the Constitution of the United States, it

must be

Affimed.

