NEW YORK v. SQUIRE.
Statemefit of the Case.

PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK ex rel. NEW
YORK- ELECTRIC LINES COMPANY v. SQUIRE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF THE CITY AND
COUNTY

OF NEW YORK.

No. 185. Argued March 3,4, 1892.-Decided May 2,1892.

The statute of June 13, 1885, of the State of New York (Sess. Laws 1885,
c. 499) requiring 'companies operating or intending'to operate electrical
conductors in any city in the State to file with the Board of Commissioners of Electrical Subways maps and plans before constructing the
conaiuits, and the statute of that State of May 29, 1886, (Sess. Laws
1886, c. 503) assessing the salaries and expenses of such board upon
the several companies operating electrical conductors in'any city in the
State, are a constitutional exerise of the general police powers of the
State, and are applicable to the New York Electric Lines Company
which, before the passage of either of said acts, was incorporated
under the laws of New York, and had obtained from the municipal. government of the city of New York permission to lay its conductors in and
through the streets and highways of the city, and had filed a map, diagram, and tabular statement indicating the amount, position and localities of the spaces it proposed to occupy in and under the streets.
The'said law of 1885 simply transferred the reserved police power of the
State from one set of functionaries to another and required the company
to submit its plans and specifications to the latter, who would determine
whether they were in accordance with the terms of the ordinances giving,
it the right to enter and dig up the streets of the city; and, being so construed, it violates no contract rights of the company which might grow
out of the permission granted by the .municipality.
The said act-of 1886 comes within the principles settled in Charlotte &c.
Railroadv. Gibbes, 142 U. S.386, and is not in conflict with the provision
in the Fourteenth Amendment that no State shall deprive any person of
life, liberty or property without due process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This was an applicationt for a writ of.mandamus on behalf of
the New York Electric Lines Company, a New York corporation, to compel the commissioner of public works of New York
City to give it 'written permission to make excavations and

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of 'the Case.

open up the streets and pavements of the city for the purpose
of laying its wires' and other conductors of electricity underground, and of making its underground electrical connections,
in accordance, it was claimed, with its franchise for such purposes, theretofore obtained from the city.
The application' was presented to the Court of Common
Pleas for the city and county of New York, at a special term,
and was denied, on the ground that the relator had not obtained the approval of the commissioners of electrical subways
for that city and county, of the plans and 9pecifications proposed by it for the construction of its underground electrical
system. tpon appeal to the court in..general term the order
denying the application was affirmed; (14 Daly, 154, 166,)
and the relator thereupon' appealed to the Court of Appeals
of the State, which affirmed the -judgment below. 107 N. Y.
593. The record having been remitted to the Court of Common Pleas, and the judgment of the Court of Appeals having
been there entered, as its judgment; this, writ of error was
sued out.
The case as presented by the petition for mandamus and its
accompanying exhibits is substantially this: The relator was
incorporated on the 14th of October, 1882, under the general
telegraph law of April 12, 1848, (Laws of 1848, c. 265,) and the
various acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto,
"for the purpose," as stated in its certificate of incorporation,
"of owiing, constructing, using, maintaining and leasing lines
of telegraph wires or other electric conductors for telegraphic
and telephonic communication, and for, electric illumination, to
be placed under the pavements of the streets, avenues, and
-public highways of the cities of New. York. and Brooklyn
in the State of New York, and under the 'sidewalks of the
streets and avenues of -the said cities, and upon, over or
under private lands in the said cities, within blocks of build"ings erected or to be erected therein, and for the purpose
of owning franchises for laying and operating the said lines
of electric conductors, and the purchasing, owning and disposing of. such real estate within the-said cities, and such
personal.property as may-'from time to time be necessary.and

NEW YORK v. SQUIRE.
Statement of the Case.

convenient to the building, using, maintaining and leasing
the said lines of -electric conductors."
By section 5 of the original act of 1848, telegraph companies were authorized to construct their lines "along and
upon any of the public roads and highways, or across any of
the waters within the limits of the State," "provided the
same shall not be so constructed as to incommode the _public use
of said roads or highways, or injuriously interrupt the navigation of said waters."
By § 2 of the amendatory act of June 29, 1853, Laws 1853, c.
471, the privilege was extended to such companies of erecting
or constructing their lines i' upon, over or under any of the public roads, streets and highways, and through, across, or under
any of the waters," of the State, subject to the same restrictions contained in the act of 1848.
By § 1 of the act of June 10, 1881, Laws 1881, c. 483, amendatory of the preceding acts on this subject, it was provided as
follows: "1. Any company or companies organized and incor,porated under the laws of this State for the purpose of owning,
constructing, using and maintaining a line or lines of electric
telegraph within this State, or partly within and partly beyond the limits of this State, are hereby authorized, from
time to time, to construct and lay lines of electrical conductors underground in any city, village, or town within the
limits of this State, sdject to all the provisions of law in reference to such companies not inconsistent' with this act: Provided, that.such company shall, before -laying any such .lin
in any city, village or town of this State, first obtain from the
common council of cities, the trustees of villages, or the commissioners of highways of towns permission to use tbe'streets
within such city, village or town for the purposes herein set
forth."
.The foregoing embraces the material parts of the statute
law of New York relating to telegraph companies, in force
when the relator was organized.
Within a few months after the relator was incorporated, to
wit, Aprill 10, 1883, the board of aldermen of the city of New
York adopted resolutions giving to the relator permission to
VOL. cxLv-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

lay its wires underground through the .city, in accordance
with certain restrictions and upon conditions particularly
specified. The material portions of these resolutions were as
follows:
"Resolved, That permission be and hereby is granted to the
New York Electric Lines Company to lay wires or other conductors of electricity in and through the streets, avenues and
highways of New York City, and to make connections of such
wires or conductors underground by means of the necessary
vaults, test-boxes and distributing conduits, and thence above
ground, with points of electric illumination or of telegraphic or
telephonic signal, in accordance with the provisions of an ' ordinance to regulate the laying of subterranean telegraph wires
and electric conductors in the streets of the city,' passed by
the common council and approved by the mayor, December
14, 1818; provided, however, and it is hereby ordained and
"-Resolved, That whenever the said New York Electric Lines
Company, in the progress of laying its lines of electric conductors, shall be prevented or obstructed from placing its wires
in the spaces which may have been generally selected under
the ordinance, passed and approved as aforesaid, by manholes
of sewer, gas, steam or water mains; or other underground or
pavement impediments, now and heretofore existing, then,
and in such cases, the said company may, under the .privileges
hereby granted, vary the space selected, by adopting, appropriating and using equivalent and nearest practicable spaces
as may be found necessary; and provided fvrther, and it is
hereby further
"1Resolved and ordainedi That the connection vaults or
test-boxes aforementioned, may be extended underground not
more'than four feet in depth or fkvo feet in any lateral direction beyond the limited spaces contemplated -for the lines of
wires, in the ordinance passed and approved as aforesaid and
may be fitted with covers, or other means of access, at the
level .of the pavements of the several streets and avenues."
Then -follow several paragraphs of the ordinance relating
to the bompensation to be'paid by the relator for the franchise
"
thus given to it.

NEW YORK v. SQUIRE.
Statement of the Case.

The.ordinance of December 14, 1878, referred to in the first
paragraph of that of 1883, as regulating the conditions and
limitations upon which the franchise was granted, was as follows:
"No telegraph line or electric conductor shall be laid r~uder
the streets of this city at such depth from the surface that the
necessary excavation incident to laying or repairing the same
shall expose or endanger any water or gas pipes, sewers, or
drains, or any parts thereof.
"Such wires or conductors shall in no case .be placed at a
greater distance from the curbstone separating sidewalks from
carriage-way than four feet, except in crossing streets running
transverse to the direction of said lines, when such crossing
shall be made in the shortest straight line or in making necessary connections with buildings and stations.
"The method employed in layifig said.conductors shall be
such that it will at no me be necessary to remove so much
of the pavement, or to make such excavation as to materially
immjede traffic or passage upon sidewalks "or steeis during
operation of laying or r'epairingsaid conductors, except when
in crossing streets transversely,, where it shall be permitted to
remove the paving stone. for a width not exceeding twci feet,
and in the nearest straight line from corner to corner. In no.
case during the general hours of passage and traffic shall passage be interrupted thereby for a longer period than one hour.
"The work of removal and replacement of the pavements
in any and all of the streets, avenues, highways and public
places in and thr igh which the wires of any telegraph company shall be laid shall be subject to the control and*supervision of the commissioner of public works. Excavations in
any and all of the unopened streets, avenues, highways or
public places shall also be subject to like control and supervision.
"The space selected for placing said wires, in every case
being limited as to direction and general position by the foregoing provisions, shall not exceed two feet in width by two
feet in depth.
"Grantees under this ordinance shall be requiired within six

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

months after such permission shall be granted to file with the
county clerk maps, diagrams, and tabular statements, including the amount and position of the spaces proposed to be
occupied by them, and their rights and privileges under this
ordinance shall be confined to the spaces, positions, and localities as indicated by said maps, diagrams and statements."
On the 16th of April, 1883, the relator accepted the franchises granted to it by the resolutions of the 10th of that month,
and on the 18th of May of the same year, it filed in the office
of the clerk of the county of New York a map, diagram and
tabular statement, indicating the amount and position and
localities of the spaces it proposed to occupy in and under the
streets and other land in the city and county of New York.
The petition avers that the relator immediately thereafter proceeded to make ready its material and plant for the construction f its electrical conductors and underground lines in the
city,. nd began to develop and elaborate its mechanical constructions for the same, and tb mate ready the machinery,
appliances and implements for its works, in pursuance of the
objects of its incorporation, and at great expense; that
since then it bad purchased and partly paid for and become obligated to pay the 'sum of $50,000 and upwards for
property essential to the execution of its rights, under the
aforesaid laws and ordinances; and that more than 3000
shares of its capital stock, 'f the par value of $100, had
been issued by it and sold to persons who had relied upon its
said franchise.
It seems, however, that notwithstanding the acts done by
the relator, as above averred, it took no steps towards opening
up the streets and avenues of the city for the purpose of laying its wires and other electrical connections underground,
until on or about July 21, 1886, when it made an application
to the commissioner pf public works for a permit to be allowed
to make the necessary excavations, etc., for such purpose, which
applicatio.was denied by the commissioner on the 23d of the
following mohth. This denial, as already stated, was made
because the relator had not obtained the approval of the Board
of Commissioners of Electrical Subways, created by the act of

NTEW YORK v. SQUIRE.
Statement of the Case.

the New York legislature, approved June 13, 1885, Laws 1885,
c. 499, of the plans and construction proposed by thlrelator.
As this act of the legislature has a very important bearing
upon the material questions in this case, it will be necessary to
refer more particularly to it. Its first section authorized and
directed the mayor, comptroller and commissioner of public
works of cities having more than one million population to
appoint three disinterested persons, residents of the city for
which they should be appointed, to'be a Board of Commissioners of Electrical Subways. By its second section it was
made the duty of such board to cause all electrical wires and
other conductors of electricity to be removed from the surface
and placed underground wherever practicable, and to require
all electrical companies operating or intending to operate
electrical conductors in any street, avenue or highway of the
city to transact their business by means of underground conductors wherever practicable. Its third section provided as
follows:
"SEo. 3. When any company, operating or intending to
operate, electrical conductors in any such city shall desire or
be required to place its conductors, or any of -them, underground in any of the streets, avenues or other highway of any
such city, and for that purpose to remove the same from the
surface thereof, and shall have been duly authorized to do'so,
it shall be obligatory upon such company .to file with said
board of commissioners a map or maps, made to scale, showing the streets or avenues or other highways which are desired
to be used for such purpose, and giving the general location,
dimensions and course of the underground conduits desired to
be constructed. Before any such conduits shall be constructed
it shall be necessary to obtain the approval by said board of
said plan of construction so proposed by such company; and
said board has and shall have power to require that the work
of removal and of constructing every such system of uhdrground conductors" shall be done according to such plan so
approved, subject at all times to such modifications as shall
from time to time by.the board be made, and subject also to
the rules and regulations, not inconsistent herewith, prescribed

182

OCTOBER TERMVf, 1891.,
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

or to. be prescribed by the local authorities having control of
such streets, avenues or other highways of such city."
Various other duties were devolved upon this board by the
subsequent sections of the act, but they need not be'referred
to in this connection. This act of 1885 was amended in certain particulars, also not material to the questions involved in
this case, by the act of 'May 29, 1886, Laws 1886, c. 503. The
only other section of the statute necessary to be mentioned
is section 7 which, as amended, is as follows:
"The amount of such salaries and expenses [of the board of
subway commissioners] shall, in such proportion as is.prescribed in section eight of this act, be by the comptroller
assessed upon and collected from the several companies operating electrical conductors in any such city of the State which,
under the provisions of this act, are or shall be required to
place and operate any of their conductors underground, and
shall be paid into the treasury of the State, in such, instalments as the comptroller shall require."
After the refusal of the commissioner of public works to
issue the permit above mentioned, the relator applied to the
Common Pleas Court for a peremptory mandamus to compel
him to issue it, with the result as stated in the opening paragraphs of this statement.
Mr. -E.X.
M.Marble for plaintiff in error.
I. The court erred in holding that the acts of the legislature
of the State of New York of 1885 and 1886, were applicable
to the relator's contract and franchise, made with and obtained from the city of New York, through its proper officers.
(a) Statutes will be construed in accordance with the purpose for which they were passed. The purpose for which
the act of June 13, 1885, was passed, was to convert existing
overhead systems of electrical wires and cables into underground
systems, and this purpose is expressly so declared. 'Clearer
and more explicit language than is used in these acts to express
the purpose for which they were passed can hardly be conceived.

NEW YORK v. SQUIRE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Er r.

There is no provision in either of them which provides for
any action or supervision by the board of commissioners in
connection with such a system as the relator obtained a franchise to construct under the streets, avenues and highways of
the city of New York. On the contrary, as will be seen by
reference to the secpnd section of the act of 1885, it is made the
duty of the board of commissioners "to cause to be removed
from the surface and put, maintained and operated underground, whenever practicable, all electrical wires or cables used
or to be used in the business of any such company." Whereever a reference is made tq "such company," it is a company
which shall be required to remove it§ electrical conductors
from the surface underground.
Nothing can be plainer from the language of the, several
sections of this act than that the intent of the legislature in
passing said act was simply, and only, to compel existing companies to convert their overhead systems into underground
systems; and such being the case, we submit that the act
should be construed according to its purpose, and not to include more than the legislature intended. United States v.
Saunders, 22 Wall. 492; Platt V. -Union PaciicRailroad,99
U. S. 48; James v..Xilwaukee, 16 Wall. 159.
(6) Statutes will not be construed to act retroactively unless
their language imperatively requires such construction. The
contract between the city of New York and the relator was
made April 16, 1883, when the relator accepted the franchise
granted it by the mayor and aldermen of the city of New
York, upon the terms and conditions mentioned therein, and
it was fully completed and perfected by the filing of a map,
diagram and tabular statement indicating the amount, position
and localities of the spaces to be occupied in and under the
streets and other lands in the city and county of New York,
on May 18, 1883.
The franchise thus granted to the relator was not based
simply on the agreement to comply with the ordinances and
regulations which had been or might be passed by the Common Council of said city, but had a
ell a moniey considera'tion, which was to be paid by. the, relator into the treasury

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of said city, and then the city had the option, either to accept
the two wires foi the use of the police, and for the fire-alarm
telegraph, as a donation, or in lieu thereof a money consideration of two per cent on the gross receipts of said comipany
In other words, the franchise granted to the relator was
granted in part, if not wholly, upon a money consideration to
'be paid to said city. A franchise obtained in. this manner ig
lawful, under the constitution and laws of the State of New
York. People v. O'Brien, 111 N. Y. 1, 30, 31.
Having thus acquired by its franchise a right of property
in the streets of said city, and thereafter having prosecuted
its work faithfully to carry out and fufil the undertaking
upon which it had entered, we submit that the acts of 1885
and 1886 referred to, cannot be held to apply to the fran.
chise and contract of the relator, unless it be held that saik
acts must be construed to operate retroactively.
In Chiew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S. 536, this court,
through Mr. Justice Harlan, said: "We have stated the
maain reasons which in our opinion forbid that interpretation
of the act of Congress. To these may be added the further
one, that the courts uniformly refuse to give to statutes a
retrospective operation, whereby rights previously vested are
injuriously affected, unless compelled to do so by language so
clear and positive as to leave no room to doubt that such was
the intention of the legislature."
IL The court erred in holding that the acts of the legislature of the State of New York of 1885 and 1886, did not
impair the contract made between the city of New York and
the relator, if said acts are applicable thereto.
It has uniformly been held by this court'that the words
"there be and hereby is granted" import a grant in presenti.
Railroacd Co. v. &mith, 9 Wall. 95; iShulenberg v. H arriman, 21 Wall. 48, 60; Leavenwortth & lawrence Railroad
v. United States, 92U. S. 733.
"We submit that the words "that permission be and hereby
,is granted," occurring in the first clause of Ili relator's
franchise, are words of like import and should be construed
and held to have the same force as where grants are made
of the entire title to lands.
-

INEW YORK v. SQUIRE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

So far as we know, the decisions of this court are uniform
in holding that where a grantee or a beneficiary under a
grant, has complied with the condition of said grant by
filing a map locating its grant and determining its limits,
boundaries and quantity, from that moment the grant attaches, and unless there are conditions subsequent, the right
of the grantee or beneficiary is complete to the lands granted.
Abolishing an existing remedy for the enforcement of a
contract, without substituting an equivalent remedy therefor,
impairs the contract.
The contract between the city of New Yorkland the relator
is valid and-of the kind and character protected by the Constitution of the United States from impairment by state legislatures. People v. O'Brienv, 111 N. Y. 1, 30,* 31; -Peoplev.
Sturtevant, 9 N. Y. 263; S. C. 59 Am. Dec. 536; X!ilkau v.
Sharp, 27 N. Y. 611; . .84 Am. Dec. 314; Brooklyn Central
Railroadv. Brooklyn City Railroad Co., 32 Barb. 358, 364.
At the time the relator made its contract with the city of
New York the writ of mandamus was a iight to which the
relator was entitled, to compel the defendant, if he refused, to
give it a written permit to open the streets, in accordance with
its map, diagram and tabular statement, whenever the relator
should be ready to commence active operations.
The right to this writ, to enforce its rights under the contract, if the act is applicable to the relator's contract and
franchise, by this act is taken away, and thereby the contract of the relator is impaired. Louisiana v. St. -Martin's
Parish, Ill U. S. 716; Walker v. Wifitekead 16 Wall. 314;
7on Hornan v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 435; Green v. Biddle, 8
Wheat. 1; 'Chicago, Xfilwaukee &c. Railway Company v.
Xinnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Louisana v. HVew Orleans, 102
U. S.203.
III. The court erred in holding that the acts of the legislature of the State of New York of 1885 and 1886, are valid,
as applied to the relator's contract and franchise, because said
acts provide for the taking away of the relator's rights under
its franchise without due process of law.
IV. The court erred in holding that the acts of 1885 and

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

1886 are proper police regulation, and were passed in the due
exercise of the police power of the State.
We do not deny that a State has a right to pass laws to
secure good order, to protect the morals, and secure the health
and safety of the people of the State. 'Such right is un'doubtedly inherent in a State, and constitutes a part of its sovereignty. There is, however, a limit to which the police power,
or the claim of police .power of a State can go, and that
limit ig reached when, by the -exercise, or attempted exercise
of such power, rights secured by contracts are invaded. A
State must not pass laws which shall violate or impair the
validity of contracts.
In N/ew Orleans Gas Light Co. v. Louisiana &c. _fanufacturing Co., 115 U. S. 650 this court said: "Definitions of the
police power must, however, be taken subject to the condition
that a State cannot in. its exercise, for any purpose whatever,
encroach upon the powers of the general government, or rights
graflted or secured by the supreme, law of the land."
And statutes passed under the police power of a State cannot
take away vested rights. -Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87;
Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 43.
ir. James 0. Carter and .&. Melville Egleston, by leave of
court, filed an intervening brief on behalf of the Metropolitan
Telephone and Telegraph Company.
.Mr. -DavidJ. -Dean (with whom was Xr. James Hillhouse
• on the brief) for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE LAmi&,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

In 'the New York courts it was contended by the relator
(1) that the aforesaid acts of the legislature of that State
passed, in- 1885 and 1886 were 'Pot applicable to it because
passed subsequently to the date of the alleged contract between
it and the city, of April 16, 1883; (2) that if they Were appli-'
cable to it, they were violative of the constitution of the State

NEW YORK v. SQUIRE.
Opinion of the Court.

of :New'York, for several reasons stated; and (3) that if applicable, they also violated the Constitution of the United States
in certain particulars specified. All of the points made by the
relator were decided adversely to it in the state courts.
In this couit, necessarily, the contention that the acts in
question are violative of the constitution of the State is not
raised, as we would have no jurisdiction to consider such questions. The contention here on the part of the relator as gathered from the assignment of errors may be thus stated:
(1) The acts of 1885 and 1886 are not applicable to the relator, for the reason urged before the courts of the State; and
(2) If they be held to apply to the relator they are violative
of the Constitution of the United States in two particulars:
(a) They deprive the relator of its property without due process of law; and (b) they impair, the obligation of the contract
made between the relator and the city on the 16th of April,
1883, the date of the acceptance by it of the provisions of the
city ordinance of the 10th of that month. All the other points
raised may be arranged under one or the other of the above
heads.
It will be convenient to consider the questions involved
in this
case in somewhat the above order. In no sense of the term do
.we think it can be safely averred that the acts of 1885 and 1886
are not applicable to the relator. The language of both of
these acts clearly precludes such a construction. It is declared
in the third section above quoted that "any.compaiiy operating or intending to operate electrical conductors" in the city
shall be obliged to file with the Board of Subway Commissioners
a "map or maps, made to scale," showing the proposed plan of
construction of its underground electrical system; and shall
also be obliged "to obtain the approval by said board of said
plan of construction so proposed" before any underground
conduits shall be constructed. The board is further given the
power to compel the construction of the electrical system in'
accordance with the plans approved by it, and to modify, from
time to time, those plans, if. the public interest should require
it.. This language is plain. and unambiguous, and is broad'
enough to include any and every electri zl company, irrespec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

tive of the date of its incorporation, operating or desiring to
operate, either directly or-indirectly, any lines of wire for telegraphic, telephonic, or illuminating purposes,within the cities
to which it is applicable, the city of iNew York confessedly being the only one affected.
lNeither can it be said that the acts of 1885 and 1886 have a
retroactive effect, at least so far as the relator is concerned,
since whatever rights it obtained under the ordinance of 1883,
which it accepted as the basis of the contract it claims to have
entered into, were expressly subject to regulation, in their use,
by the highest legislative power in the State acting for the
benefit of all interests affected by those rights and for the benefit of the public generally, so long as the relator's essential
rights were not impaired or invaded. New Orleans Gas Company v. Louiiana Light Company, 115 U. S. 650; Stein v.
Bienville Mater Supply Company, 141 U. S. 61.
In order to determine whether the relator's essential rights
have been invaded, or the contract which it claims to have
eintered into impaired, or its property taken away without due
process of law, it will be necessary to ascertain what rights and
property it possesses under the alleged contract of April 16,
1883. This contract, if such it be, must be gathered from the
statutes of the State, under which the relator was organized,
and'the ordinances of the city (which it accepted) by which
its privilege of constructing an underground electrical system
was conferred. Redurring to the general telegraph act of 1818
and the acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto,
the material provisions of which are set out above, it is observed that in none of those acts is there any unqualified right
conferred upon any electrical company to construct its lines
wherever, or in whatever mianner it might cho6se. On the contrary, in every one of those acts provision is made for the
security of the rights of the public in the use of the streets and
highways which maybe used by the electric companies. Thus
in the act of 1848 the proviso is that the electric lines "shall
not be so constructed as to incommode the public use of said
roads or highways, or injuriously interrupt the navigation of
said waters." Like restrictions are carried into the acts of

NEW YORK v. SQUIRE..
Opinion of the Court.

1853 and: 1881; and the additional proviso is inserted in the
act of 1881 that before any. company shall be allowed to construct its lines in any city, village or town it must "first obtain from the common council of cities, the trustees of villages,
or the commissioners of highways of towns permission to use
the streets within such city, village or town for the purposes
herein set forth." Here, then, in express terms, the power is
reserved to regulate the use by the electrical c6mpanies of all
the public highways of the State; and the rights conferred
upon such companies are not absolute rights but the qualified
right to construct their lines and operate them so as not to
interfere with the public easements or the private rights of
prior grantees.
Turning now to the ordinances of 1878,and 1883, the provisions of which were accepted by the relator on the 16th of'
April, 1883, which acceptance, it is claimed, constituted a contract between it and the city, we find that permission was
given to the relator to lay its lines of wire underground, in
and through the city, in accordance with certain specified plans
of construction. These plans are elaborately described in those.
ordinances; the depth at which the wires are to be placed;
the distance the conduits, test-boxes and connection vaults
must be placed from underground gas, sewer, steam or water
mains; the distance they are required to be from the curbstone; and the method employed in the construction, are all
specified with great particularity. And the supervision land
control of these matters.of excavation and construction, by the
ordinance of 1818, devolve upon the commissioner of public
works. Conceding, then, for present purposes, without deciding that such was the case, that the relator had a contract with
the city of New York for the laying of its wires, and the con."
,struction of its underground electrical system, the terms of the
contract, as found in the statutes and the ordinances, gave the
relator only the right to carry out the purposes of its organization in a manner which will in nowise interfere either with
other underground systems and connections, such as gas, sewer,
and water systems, already established and in operation, or
with the rights of the public to use the streets, avenues and

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

highways of the city for the purposes of general travel. The
rights of the public and the rights of prior occupants are to be
respected and protected.
In what way, therefore, did the acts of 1885 and 1886 impair
this contract? Did they take from the relator any rights
which it theretofore possessed? Did they prohibit it from laying its lines and constructing its underground electrical system
in accordance with the terms, and subject to the restrictions and
conditions, of its said contract with the city? We think all
these questions must be answered against the relator. The
only thing that the acts of 1885 and o1886 did in this matter
was to create a Board of Subway Commissioners whose duty it
was to carry out the provisions of the ordinances of the city
and the prior acts of the legislature relatifig to electric lines.
The statutes of 1885 and 1886 did not prohibit the relator from
carrying out the .purposes of its organization or from laying
its wires underground. They simply said to it, "Submit your
plans and specifications of your electrical system to the Board
of Subway Commissioners, who will determine whether they
are in accordance with the terms of the ordinances giving you
the right to enter and dig up the streets of the city." This the
statutes had a right to do. It would be an anomaly in municipal administration, if every corporation that desired to dig up
the streets of a city and make underground connections for
sewer, gas, water, steam, electricity or other purposes, should
be allowed to proceed upon its own theory of what were proper
plans for it to adopt, and proper excavations to make. The
evils that would follow from such a system of practice would
be of great gravity to the public and would entail endless disputes and bickerings with prior parties having equal rights.
The utmost that can be said against the acts of 1885 and 1886
is, that*they transferred the supervision and control of the
matters of excavation of the streets and the construction of
underground electric systems from the commissioner of public
works to the Board of Subway Commissioners. That is the
sum total of the change effected. Not a right of the electrical
companies was violated, and no contract was impaired. The
expressly reserved power of the State or inufilicipality to regu-

NEW YORK

v. SQUIRE.

Opinion of the Court.

late the use of the streets and highways in such manner as not
to injuriously affect the public interests was merely transferred
from one public functionary to another. The power was not
enlarged; only the agency by which the supervising power of
the State was to be exercised was changed. It requires no
argument or citation of authorities to demonstrate that such
proceedings did not impair the obligation of the relator's contract. If it did, every act of incorporation would involve a
loss of authority by the legislature to change its public functionaries, or their respective powers and duties.
Independently, however, of the contractual relations of the
relator, the statutes of 1885 and 1886 are so clearly an exercise
of the general police powers of the State that we do not deem
it necessary to add anything on that point to what was said
by the Court of Appeals of New York. 107 N. Y. 593, 603,
604.
The contention that the statutes referred to deprive the
relator of its property without due process of law is equally
without foundation. This argument rests upon'the assumption
that the legislature could not require the electric companies to
pay the salaries of the subway commissioners, as provided in
section 7 of the act of 1885, as amended in 1886; and that this
requirement of the statute is in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. This
contention cannot be sustained under the principles of Charlo.tte &c.
ailroadv. Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386. In that case it
was held that a statute of South Carolina, requiring the salaries
and expenses of the state railroad commission to be borne by
the several corporations owning or operating railroads within
the State, was not in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment,
which provides that no State shall "deprive any person of life,
liberty or property, without due process, of law; nor deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
1
laws.
There are no other features of the case that call for special
consideration.
Judgment afflrmed.

