OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Names of Counsel

BENSON MINIlG AND'SMELTING COMPANY v.
ALTA MINING AND SMELTING COMPANY.
APPEAL

COURT OF THE TERRITORY

FROM THE SUPREME

OF

ARIZONA.
No. 347. Argued and submitted April 28, 1892. -Decided

May 16, 1892.

When the judgment in the Supreme Court of a Territory exceeds $5000 this
6ourt has -urisdiction of an appeal, although the judgment in the trial
court may have been for a less sum and the jurisdictional amount is
reached in the appellate court by adding interest to that judgment.
When the price of a mining claim hs been paid. to the government, the
equitable rights of the purchaser are complete, and there is no obligation
on his part todo further annual work in order to obtain a patent.
A person who wrongfully works a mine, takes out ores therefrom, removes
them, and converts them to his own use is not entitled, in an action to
recover their value, to be credited with the cost of mining the ores.

THE court stated the case as follows:,

)n July 25, 1884, appellee, plaintiff below, commenced its
': tion in the District Court of the First Judicial District of
the Territory of Arizona to recover of defendant the sum of
$25,000 for 210 tons of silver-bearing ore, mined and removed
from the Alta mine, situated in the Harshaw mining district,
in Phina County, Arizona. A jury having. been~waived, the
case was'tried before the court, and a judgment was entered
for the-plaintiff, on March 22, 1886,1ftr the sum of $4590.06,
-withinterest from that time until paid at the rate of ten per
-cent per annum. Defendant took the case.t6 the Supreme
Court of the Territory, which, on February •17, 1888, affirmed
the judgment. Frbm sucl-judgment of affirmance defendant
appealed to this court.
.Xr. Yathaniel Wilson, for appellant, submitted on his
brief.
Xr.- T7. X Norwood for appellee.
filed a brief for-same.
-

Xr. ,T A.' Anderson

BENSON MINING CO. v. ALTA MINING CO.

429

Opinion of the Court.

Mr.. JUSTI E BREwER delivered the opinion of the court.
The amount due, as determined by the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory, was over $5000, being the
sum of $4590.06, as awarded by the judgment of the District
Court, with interest from its date, March 22, 1886, at ten per
cent per annum, to February 17, 1888, the date of the judgment of affirmance. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction of
the appeal. Zeckendof v. ohnson, 123 U. S. 617.
On the merits of the case two questions are presented. It
appears that in 1879, Fagan, Harshaw and others were the
owners of the Alta mine, and at that time made application
to the proper land office for a United States patent thereto,
paid the price required,.by law, and obtained the ordinary
certificate of purchase. Thereafter they sold 6nd conveyed
-the-property to the plaintiff. The 1laintiff continued to do a
large amount of work on the mine up to the year 1882; but
having failed in that year to do as much as $100 worth of
work thereon, one J. K. Luttrell relocated it about June 1,
71883, and called it the '"Ben Butler mining claim," and under
this relocation and possession taken in consequence thereof,
the ore in controversy was mined and removed. On January
10, 1884, the patent was issued to the 6riginal locators, Fagan,
Rarshaw and others.' Upon thesp facts appellant claims that,
although the mine was fully paid -for by the locators in 1879,
and a certificate of purchase received, inasmuch as the patent
did not issue until January 10, 1884, and because the plaintiff
failed to do a hundred dollars' worth of work in the year
1882, its rights ceased, and the relocation by Luttrell was
valid and vested in him the property. This claim is based
upon section 2324, Revised Statutes, which provides among
other matters:
"On each claim located after the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-two, and until a patent has been
issued therefor, not less than one hundred dollars' worth of
labor shall be performed or improvements made during each
year, . . . and upon a failure to comply with these conditions, the claim or mine upon which such failure occurred

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be open to relocation in the same manner as if no location of the same had ever been made, provided that the original locators, their heirs, assigns or legal representatives, have
not resumed work upon the claim after failure and before such
location."
This language, standing by itself, apparently sustains the
contention of the appellant; but a consideration of the provisions of all the statutes respecting mining claims makes it
'obvious that such is not the true construction. The precise
question has never been presented to this court; but the import of several decisions is against appellant's contention.
The 'uniforin ruling of the Land Department has been against.
it, the question having -been presented- at an" early day and
fully examined. In the case of the American Hill Quartz
_23ine, reported in Sickels' Mining Laws and Decisions, pages
37 and 385, and also in Copp's U, S. Yineval Lands, page
254, are well-considered opinions by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior, each
holding that, when the price of a mining claim has been paid
the equitable rights of the purchaser are complete, and there
is no obligation on his part to do further annual work, the
delay in issuing the patent- being a mere matter occurring in
the administration of the Land Department, and the patent
when issued by relation taking effect as of the date of the
purchase. In the consideration of this question the Secretary
of the Interior opens with these pertinent suggestions: "At
thd outset it is proper to remark that by the mining laws of

the United States three distinct classes of titles are created,
viz. : 1. Title in fee simpIe. 2. Title by possession. 3. The
complete equitable title. The first vests in the grantee of the
government an indefeasible title, while the second vests a
title in the nature of an. easement only. The first, being an
absolute, grant by purchase and patent without condition, is
not defeasible, while the -second, being a mere right of possession" and enjoyment of profits without purchase and upon
conditioii, may be defeated at -any time by the failure of the
party in possession to comply with .the condition, viz.: to
perform the labor or make the annual improvements required

BENSON MNIIN G CO. v. ALTA MINING CO.

431

Opinion of the Court.

by the statute.
The equitable title accrues immediately
upon purchase, for the entry entitles the purchaser to* a
.patent, and the right to a patent once vested is equivalent to
a patent issued."
Obviously iection 2324 does not provide for the acquisition
of title to the land. Its scope and purport are expressed In
the opening -words, as follows: "The miners of eau'h mining
district may make regulations not in conflict with the lan s of
the United States, oi with the laws of the State or Territory
in which the district is situated, governing the location, manner of*recording, amount of work necessary to hold possession
of a mining claim, subject to the following requirements:"
and then follow several provisions in the nature of limitations
on the general authority thus given to miners. Among them
is that quoted. That evidently does not refer to the "location," or "manner of recording," but to the "amount of work
necessary to hold possession of a mining claim," that is, to
continue the mere possessory title: As Congress by section
2319, Rev. Stat. had enacted that "all valuable mineral deposits in lands belonging to the United States, both surveyed
and unsurveyed, are hereby declared to be free and open to
exploration and purchase by citizens of the United States,
etc.," it is not strange that it gave the sanction of law to the
regulations which the miners in any. Io6ality might establish
for their several occupation and working of mining claims;
but it is not to be expected that it would also give to them
authority to determine how the title to the land itself might
be acquired. And so we find that section 2325 provides that
"a patent for any land claimed and located for valuable
deposits may be obtained in the following manner," and
gives thereafter the various steps necessary to be taken to
purchase the land. Near its close is this, as to the patent:
"If no adverse claim shall have been filed with the register
and the receiver of the proper land office at the expiration of
the sixty days of publication, it shall be assumed that the
applicant is entitled to a patent, upon the payment to the
p1oper officer of five dollars per acre, and that no adverse
claim exists." . In other words, when the priue is paid the

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

right to a patent immediately arises. If not issued at once, it
is because the magnitude'of the business in the Land Department causeg delay. But such delay, in the mere administration of affairs, does not diminish.the rights flowing from the
purchase, or cast any additional burdens on the purchaser,
or expose him to the assaults of third parties.
The opinion of the Secretary of the Interior has received
judicial endorsement in the cases of Auro'ra Minin? Co. v.
85 .Xining Co., in the *Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Nevada, 34: Fed. Rep. 515, and -eno v. Griffn,
20 iNevada, 249. It is a general rule, in respect to the sales of
real estate, ihat when a purchaser has paid the full purchase
price his equitable rights are complete, and there is nothing
left in the vendor but the naked legal title, which he holds in
trust for the purchaser. And this general rule of real estate
law has been repeatedly applied by this court to the administration of the affairs of the Land Department of the govern-,
ment; and the ruling has been uniform, that whenever, in
cash sales, the price has 'been paid, or, in other cases' all .the
conditions of entry performed, the full equitable title has
passed, and only the-naked legal title'remains in the government in trust for the other party, in whom are vested all the
rights and obligations of ownership. Thus in the case of
Ca'roll v. Saford, 3 How. 441, it was held that, after the
price of the land had been paid and the purchaser held the
receiver's certificate therefor, it was subject to state taxation,
although the patefit was not then issued. In the opinion,
page 461, the court said that "lands which have been sold by
the United States can, in no sense, be called the property of
the United States. They are no more the property oi the
United States than lands patented. So far as the rights of
the purchaser are considered, they' are protected under the
patent certificate as fully as under the patent.

.

.

. The

government, until the patent shall issue, holds the mere legal
title for the land in trust for the purchaser." In Zessee of
French v. Spencer, 21 How..228, it appeared that a military
land warrant had been located. on the tract, and the land sold
thereafter, but before the issue of the patent, the act under

BENSON MINING CO. v. ALTA MINING CO.

433

Opinion of the Court.

which the land warrants were granted providing that no claim
fur military bounties should be assignable or transferable until
after the patent had been issued, and that all sales, mortgages
or contracts made prior thereto should be void. In that
respect it will be seen that the language is not dissimilar to
that used in the section before us in the present case. It was
held that the patent related back to the time of the location,
and that the conveyance intermediate the location and the
patent was valid and transferred the title. In Witersoon v.
Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, there was a donation entry instead of a
cash purchase; but the entry having. been completed, it was
held that the title passed,.and that the land was subject to
taxation, although the patent did not issue until'years thereafter. In Stark v. Starrs, 6 Wall. 402,-418, this court.observed
that "the right to a patent once vested is treated by the government, when dealing with the public lands, as equivalent to a
patent issued. When, in fact, the patent does issue, it relates
back to the inception of the right of the patentee, so far as it
may be necessary to cut off inteiveniing claimants." In Iorth
•v. Branson, 98 U. S. 118, it was held that "a party who has
complied with all the terms and conditions which entitle him
to a patent for a particular tract of ,p.ublic land, acquires a
vested interest therein, and is to.be regarded as the equitable
owner thereof." And, in Deffebacc v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392,
the court gave to a certificate of purchase of mineral lands the
same effect that had been theretofore given to cash and ,donation entries of agricultural lands. In the opinion, on page 405;
is found thisdanguage: "No adverse claim was ever filed -with..
the register and receiver of the local land office, and theb ntry
was never cancelled nor disapproved by the officers of he
Land Department at Washington. The right of the government, therefore, passed to him ;-and though, its deed, that is,
its patent, was not issued to him uiit;Jqnuiary 31, 1882, the
certificate of purchase which was given t6 him upon the entry,
was, so far as the acquisition of title by any other party was
,conioernddepivale~t to a patent. It was not until the 28th
of July following that' the probate judge.: entered the town
thet subject of sale by
site. The land had then ceased to
VOL.',CJtV-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

the government. It was no longer its property- it held the
legal title only in trust for the holder of the certificate. Witherspoon V. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210, 218. When the patent was
subsequently. issued, it related back to the inception of the
right of the patentee."
There-is no conflict in the rulings of this court upon the
question. With one voice they affirm that when the right to a
patent exists, the full equitable title, has passed to the purchaser, with all the benefits, immunities and burdens of
ownership, and that no third party can acquire from, the government interests as against .him. The decision of the trial
court was 8orrect. The attempted relocation by Luttrell, was
void, and gave him no rights of possession or otherwise.
The only other question is as to the measure of damages.
The trial court found that the value of the ores, at the time of
their conversion by the defendant, was $11,716.65; that after
the ores had been mined, and become chattels there had been
expended by the defendant and, others, in removing the ores
from the mine, in assorting the same from the worthless rock,
and in transferring the same to the smelter, the sum of
$7985.83; and gave judgment for the difference, to wit,
$3730.82, and interest. It also found that the entries and trespasses upon the Alta mine were with knowledge of plaintiff'"
ownership thereof, and that the defendant at the time il
received the ores had knowledge that they came from thE
Alta mine, and were the property of the plaintiff; and there
was testimony to support these findings. Wralnut v. TWade,
103 U. S. 683, 688;. Jessup v. United States, 106 U. S.
147, 150.
The contention of the appellant is, that there was error in
not crediting it also with the cost of mining the ores. But
as it received and coiivertd them with knowledge that they
belonged to the plaintiff, the ruling of the trial court was,
within the decision in.Wooden-ware Company v. United.States,
106 1U. S. 432, as liberal to the appellant as it had a right
to expect.
Tke judqment is affirmed

