,OCTOBER TERMT,

1891.

Coubsel for Plaintiff in Error.

fact bearing, upon the question in controversy ; and that for
the exclusion of these letters, as well as for the undue. restriction of the defendants' challenges,, the verdicts must be set
aside, and a new trial had.
As the verdicts ani judgments were several, the writ of
error sued out by the defendants jointly was superfluous, and
may be dismissed without costs; and upon each of the writs
of error sued out by the defendants severally the order will
be
Judgment reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to set aside the verdict and to order a
new trial.

SOUTH SPRING HILL GOLD MINING COMPANY v.
AMADOR MEDEAN GOLD MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TEE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 33.

Submitted April 27,1892.-Decided May 16,1892.

The court, being informed that the control of both the corporations, parties
to this suit, had come into the hfinds of the same persons, but that there
was a minority of stockholders in the Amador Medean Gold Mining Company who retained the interest that they had, at the time the decision was
rendered - that the two corporations were still in existence and-organized - and that the present managers and owners of the properties were
anxious that the question should be decided, in order that the minority of
the stockholders might receive whatever, by the finding of the court,
would be due to them - reverses the judgment and remands the case for
further proceedings in conformity to law, without considering or passing
upon the merits of the ca§6 i- any respect.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

ar._George S. Boutwell for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.

SOUTH SPRING GOLD CO. v. AMADOR GOLD CO.

301

bpinlion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF
court.

JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

This was An action brought by the Amador Medean Gold
Mining Company against the South Spring Hill Gold Mininag
Company in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of California, where it was tried on an
agreed statement of facts, and a judgment rendered in favbr
of the plaintiff, to review which this writ of error was prosecuted.- The opinion of Judge Sawyer, holding the Circuit
Couirt, will be found reported in 36 Fed.. Rep. 668.
When the case came on for argument in this court the
attorney for plaintiff in error very properly called our attention
to the fact that, since the decision in the Circuit Court, "the
control-of both the corporations, parties to this suit, had come
into the hands of the same persons, but that there was a
minority of stockholders in the Amador Medean Gold Mining
Company who retained the interest that they had at the tim'e
the decision was rendered;" "that the two corporations were
still in existence and organized, and that the present managers and owners of the properties were anxious that the question' should be .decided, in order that the minority of the
stockholders might receive whatever, by the finding of the
court, would be due to them." No appearance has been entered
for defendant in error, but a copy of the opening and closing
briefs, filed on its behalf in the Circuit Court, has been printed
and filed here by plaintiff in error. 'We cannot, how'ver, consent to determine a controversy in which the plaintiff in
error has become the dominus litis on both sides. We assume
that tlis is not an agreed ease gotten up by collusion; but the
litigation has ceased to be between adverse parties, and the
case therefore falls within the rule applied where the contto-'
•versy is not a real one. Wood-paper Compar.wy v. Heft, 8
Wall. 333; Ckhvelandl v. Chamberlain, 1 ]Black, 419; .Lord v.
Veazie, 8'IHow. 251; Washington .Market Co. v. District of
Qolumbia, 137 U. S.62..
If the writ of errorbe dismissed the judgment will remain
undisturbed, and the plaintiff in error might .be out off fribm

