BARNETT v. DENISON.
Syllabus.

That rule compels an affirmance-of the decree in this case.
It appears that the railroad track was raised above the level
of the highway; but the rise was slight, and the slope gradual.
According to the testimony of the surveyor who measured
the crossing, (and the other witnesses who simply gave estimates substantially corroborated him,) the rise on the one.side
was 1.4 feet in 30 feet, and on the other 1.3 in 15, and 1.9 in
30 feet -a rise but a trifle greater than that from the gutter
to the centre of the street in many cities. That certainly car:
ries with it no evidence of negligence. It appears also that
the receiver had ballasted the track at the crossing,- and it was
claimed that some of the stones within the rails, and on the
highway just outside of the rails, were unreasonably large;
but the master found that "the stones were broken to a fair
size," and that although one or two pieces of unreasonable
size were produced on the hearing, yet "the weight of the
'testimony was that the stones in the roadway were of fair
size and not dangerous to travel." Photographs of the crossing were presented to the mastei ' to the Circuit Court, and
also to us. Those photographs make it clear that the ascent
on either side was gradual; that the total rise was slight, and
but a few stones on either side of the track in the roadway.
They put an end to any suspicion of negligence in the crossing, unless it were in the size of the stones; and the testimony
leaves that matter in such condition that we are not justified
in disturbing the finding of the master, approved as it was by
the Circuit Court.
The decree is therefore
Anlrmed.

BARNEI'T v. DENISON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

TOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 297. Submitted April 13, 1892. -Decided

May 2,1892.

When the charter of a municipal corporation requires that bonds issued by
it shall specify for what purpose they are issued, a bond which purports

.136

1 OCTOBER TER,

1891.

Statement of the Case.
on its face to be issued by virtue of an ordinance, the date of which is
given, but not its title or its contents, does not so far satisfy the requirements of the charter as to protect an innocentholder for value from defences which might otherwise be made.

TuE c6urt stated the case as follows:
This was an action to recover the amount of certain coupoons cut from bonds issued by the city of Denison "for the
reduction of and cancellation of the outstanding city scrip,
and for the improvement of streets," etc.
The charter of the city, adopted March 7, 1879, conferred
upon it power (sec. 27) " To borrow money on the credit of
the .city, and issue bonds therefor to an amount not to exceed
$50,000. To make a loan exceeding $50,000 the question
must be submitted to the qualified voters of the city, and if
sustained by a majority of the votes polled, such loan shall be
lawful. -All bonds shall specify for what purpose they were
isgued, and not be invalid if sold for less than their par value.
And when any bonds are issued by the city a fund shall be
provided," etc. See. 28: f"To issue bonds in aid of any corporation or enterprise, either mamifacturing, railroad, or for
other purposes, calculated to advance the interests of the said
city, and to borrow money for that purpose, and to take stock
therein, or in any of them, provided," etc.
Pursuant to this charter the city council, on August 9, 1873,
adopted the following ordinance:
"See. 1. Be it ordained by the city council of. the city of
Denison, that there shall be issued by the city of Denison
bdnds to the extent of $20,000, and shall be known as 'Denison City Bonds.' Said bonds shall mature in ten years from
the date of their issuance, and such bonds, or the proceeds
thereof, shall be used for the' purpose of redeeming the outstanding city scrip or other indebtedness, and the improvement of the streets, as may be directed by the city council;
and said bonds shall bear an annual interest of ten per
centum, payable, semi-annually, expressed by coupons thereto
attached, and shall be payable at the office of the Importers'
and Traders' National Bank of lNew York City."

BARNETT v. DENISON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

No reference was made in the bonds to the purpose for
which they were issued, but they contained the following
paragraph: "These bonds are issued by virtue of an ordinance passed by the board of aldermen of said city, on the
9th day of August, and approved by the mayor on the 9th
day of August, 1873."
It was stipulated upon the trial that "if the failure to state
the purpose for which- the bonds were issued more specifically
than is contained in said bonds was such a defect as deprived
them of the quality of negotiable paper and visited all purchasers for value with notice, then the city of Denison had a
good defence to the suit; but if not such a defect, then plaintiff ought to recover as prayed for in his petition."
The court charged the jury that, by the charter, notice was
imputed to all persons purchasing bonds that the purpose for
which they were issued should be stated, and instructed them
to return a verdict for the defendant, which was done. The
plaintiff thereupon took out a writ of error from this court.
- lr. H.
brief.

-Chilton

for plaintiff in error submitted on his

I. When a municipal corporation has power under any,
cirdumstances to issue negotiable securities the bona fide pur.
chaser has a right to presume that they were issued under
circumstances and for a purpose which give the requisite
authority, and they are no more liable to be impeached for
any infirmity in the hands of such a purchaser than any other
commercial paper. Supervisors v. Sc7henck, 5 Wall. -772 784;
-Merchants" Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604; St. Joseph
Township v. Rogers, 16 Wall. 644; Chambers County v.
Clews, 21 Wall. 317; San Antonio v. Lane, 32 Texas, 405.
II. Where, as in this case, the holder of municipal bonds
purchased. them before their maturity, and without notice of
any defence, and they recite that they were issued under a certain ordinance, a reference to which shows a legal and proper
purpose, for the use and benefit of the city, the purchaser is
thereby assured of the validity of the bonds, and it would be

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tolerating a fraud to permit the city to show that the bonds
-were not in fact issued for such purpose. The cityis estopped
from denying the truth of'the recitals in its bonds. County
of ]Joultriev. Savings Bank, 92 U. S. 631; Town of Coloma
v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; San Antonio v. _Mehaffey, 96 U. S.
312; Nauvoo v. Bitter, 97 U. S. 389; _Hackett v. Ottawa, 99
,U. S. 86; Walnut v. Wade, 103 U. S. 683; County of Clay v.
ocietyfor Savings, 104 U. S. 579; Ottawa v. National Bank,

165 U. S. 342.
The bonds themselves on their face re6ited the ordinance
by date under which they were issued. The ordinance recites
that the bonds were authorized for the redemption of city
scrip and other indebtedness, and for the improvement of the
streets. Failure of consideiation was the defence under which
the court instructed the jury that the plaintiff could not
recover. Which we submit was error.
The concession that plaintiff made out his case and was
entitled to recover as an innocent holder for value before maturity, unless the failure to state the purpose for which the bonds
were issued more particularly than is contained in the said
bonds, deprived him of his right as an innocent holder, in effect
concedes the correctness of the two foregoing propositions..
III. The material proposition in the case then is, that
where, as in this case, a bond or other instrument has been
issued by virtue of a certain ordinance referred to, but not
copied or described, such recital is notice of the contents of
the ordinance; and as such ordinance recites the purpose for
which the bonds are authorized, the bonds thereby in effect
specify the purpose for which they were issued. .ansas v.
School -District HLYo. 3, 34 Kansas, 237; Lewis v. Bourbon
County, 12 Kansas, '186; Hackett v. Ottawa, 99 U. S. 95;
Ottawa v. NTational Bank, 105 U. S. 143.
IV. Tho provision of section 27 of the charter of the city
of Denison prescribing that bonds issued under that section
shall specify for what purpose they were issued, is merely
directory, and the absence of such recital from the bonds will
not affect the rights of a bona fide holder for value. YFoung
v. Camden' County, 19 Missouri, 309.

BARNETT v. DENISONT.
Opinion of the Court.

No appearance for defendant in error.
MR.

JusTIcE

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the single question whether a requirement of a charter that the bonds issued by a municipal corporation shall specify for what purpose they are issued, is so far
satisfied by a bond which purports on its face to be issued by
virtue of an ordinance, the dat6 of which is given, but not its
title or its contents, as to cut off defences which might otherwise be made.
We are of the opinion that it is not. It is the settled
,doctrine of this court that municipal corporations are merely
agents of the state government for local purposes, and possess
only such powers as are expressly given, or implied, because
essential to carry into effect such as are expressly granted
1 Dill. Mfun. Corp. section 89; Ottawa v. Carey, 108 U. S. 110;
that the bonds pf such corporations are void unless there be
express or implied authority to issue them; Wells v. Supervisorfs, 102 U. S. 625; Claiborne County v. Brooks, 111 U. S.
400 ; Concord v. Robinson, 121 U. S. 165 ; .Kelleyv. -Vilan,127
U. S. 139 ;'that the provisions of the statute authorizing them
must be strictly pursued; and that the purchaser or holdei of
such bonds is chargeable with notice .of the requirements of
the law under which they are issued. Ogden v. County of
Daviess, 102 U. S.634; .Marsk v. Fulton County, 10 Wall.
676; South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260; NSorthern
Bank v. Porter Township, 110 U. S. 608; Jayes v. Holly
Springs, 114 U. S. 120; Xferohants Bank v. Bergen County,
115 U. S. 384; H~arshman v. -nox County, 122 U. S. 306;
Coter v. Cleburne, 131 U. S.162; lake County v. Graham,
130 U. S. 674.
It is certainly a reasonable requirement that the bonds issued
shall express upon their face the purpose for which they were
issued. In any event, it was a requirement of which the purchaser was bound to take notice, and if it appeared upon their
face that they were issued for an illegal purpose they would
be void. If they were issued without any purpose appeaxing

. OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

at all upon their face, the purchaser took the risk of. their
being issued for an illegal purpose, and, if that proved to be
the case, they are as void in his hands as if he had received
them with express notice of their illegality. Ordinarily the
recital of the fact that the bonds were issued in pursuance of
a certain ordinance would be notice that they were issued for a
purpose specified in such ordinance, -Hacket v. Ottawa, 99
U. S. 86, and the city would be estopped to show the fact to
be otherwise. Ottawa v. National Bank, 105 U. S. 342. But
where the statute requires such purpose to be stated upon the
face of thb bonds it 'is no answer to say that the ordinance
authorized 'them for a legal purpose, if in fact they were issued
without conAderation, and for a different purpose:
In this case, the bonds were not only issued for a purpose
not named in the ordinance, viz.: in aid of the Texas and
Atlantic Refrigerator Car Company, which had agreed to
erect at Denison slaughter-houses, tanks, machinery and other
material of the value of $15,000, but upon a-consideration
which had wholly failed, the company having failed to comply
with the terms of the contract; and the bonds, so far as they
were known to exist, were cancelled.
In .ansas v. School Distict No. 3, 34 Kansas, 237, relied
upon by the plaintiff, the State sued a school district upon
certain school district bonds and their coupons. Upon the
trial, the, defendant objected to the introduction of any evidence upon the petition, upon the ground that the same did
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, and
the court sustained the objection and dismissed the action.
One of the objections urged by the defendant against the
petition was that the bonds did not state, as required by
statute, the purpose for which they were issued. The court
held that the bonds were not void for that reason, because
under the allegations of the petition they must be considered
as issued in good faith,; "that the school district -received

"ample consideration for them; and that the State of Kansas
is an innocent and bonaf
lce purchaser of them ; for nothing
appears to the contrary in the petition, and all the allegations
of the petition. would tend to indicate this." This ruling,

