OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

to say that the bank can ignore the negligence of all its
officers and profit by their omission of duty. At the least,
it was a question to go to the jury "vhether the officers of the
bank, other than Warner, in the 6xercise 6f reasonable and
proper care, could have ascertained that these moneys had
been deposited to the account of the Albion Bank, and would
or would not have accepted such deposits as the return of the
moneys to the bank.
For the error in this respect, the judgment must be
Reversed, and the case emandedfor a new tria

SHAW v. QUINCY MINING COMPANY.
ORIGINAL.
Nlo. 13. Original. Argued March 8, 1892. -Decded May 16, 1892.
Under the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, § 1, as corrected by the act of
August 13, 1888, c. 866, a corporation, incorporated in one State only,
cannot be compelled to answer, in a Circuit Court of the United States
held in another State, in which it has a usual place of business, to a civil
suit, at law or in equity, brought by a citizen of a different State.

Tmis was a petition for a writ of mandamus to the judges
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York to command them to take jurisdiction
against the Quincy Mining Company upon a bill in equity,
filed in that court on September 3, 1891, by the petitioner,
described in the bill as a citizen of Massachusetts, in behalf of
himself and other stockholders of the Quincy Mining Company, :against "the Quincy Mifing Company, a corporation
duly organized under the laws of the State of Michigan, and
having a usual place of businfess in the city, county and State
of New York," and against certain individuals described in
the bill as citizens of the State of New York. Upon ,that bill
a subpcena was issued, directed to the Quincy Mining Company, and, as appeared by the marshal's return thereon, was

SHAW v. QUINCY MINING COMPANY.
Names of Counsel.

served upon it within the Southern District of New York by
exhibiting to its secretary the original subpoena and leaving
with him a copy. The Quincy Mining Company appeared
specially, and moved for an order to set aside the service.
At the hearing of the motion, it appeared that the Quincy
Mining Company was a corporation organized for the purpose
of mining in the county of Houghton in the Upper Peninsula
of the State of Michigan, under the statute of Michigan of
May 11, 1877, c. 113, by section 30 of which "it shall be lawful for any company associating under this act to provide in
the articles of associatiofi for having the business office of such
company out of this State, and to hold any meeting of the
stockholders or board of directors of such company at such
office so provided for, but every such company having its business office out of this State shall have an office for the transaction of business within this State, to be also designated in
such articles of association " and that this company, in its
articlea of association, did provide as follows : "The business
office of the company hereby constituted and formed shall be
in the city, county and State of New York, and another business office is hereby established at the Quincy mine, in the
county of Houghton and State of Michigah."
The order to set aside the service was granted by the court,
upon the ground (as stated in its return to the rule to show
cause why the writ of mandamus should not issue) "that said
Quincy Mining Company is a corporation created and existing
under the laws of the State of Michigan, and is an inhabitant
of the Western District of Michigan, and not an inhabitant of
the Southern District of New York."
.&. .Xichael -H. Cardozo for the petitioner.
_-Mr. -Don X. -Dickinson(with whom was XAr. Alfred Bussell on the brief) opposing.
.Mr. Solicitor Genera, by leave of court, filed a brief in support of the petition.
Mr. John F. Dillon and .Mr. .Hubley Ashton, by leave of
court, filed a brief against it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1891:
Opinion of the Court.

after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
MR. JuSTICE GRAY,

The single question in this case is whether under the act of
MNarch 3,'1887, c. 373, § 1, as corrected by the act of August
13, 1888, c. 866, (the material parts of which are copied in the
margin,') a corporation incorporated in one State of the Union,
and having a usual place of business in another State in which
it has not been incorporated, may be sued, in a Circuit Court
of the United States held in the latter State, by a citizen of a
different State.
This question, upon which there has been a diversity of
opinion in the Circuit Courts, can be best determined by a
review of the acts of Congress, and of the decisions of this
court, regarding the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
of the United States over suits between citizens of different
States.
In carrying out the provision of the Constitution which
declares that the judicial power of the United States shall
extend to controversies "between citizens of different States,"
1 "The Circuit Courts of the United States shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil
nature, at common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute exceeds,
exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value of two thousand dollars,
and arising under the Constitition or laws of the United States, or treaties
made, or which shall be made, under their authority, or in which controversy the United States are plaintiffs or petitioners, or in which there' shall
be a controversy between citizens of different States, in which the matter
in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value aforesaid, or a controversy between citizens .of the same State claiming lands
under grants of different States, or a controversy between citizens of a
State and. foreign States, citizens or subjects, in which the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or value aforesaid."
"But no person shall be arrested in one district for trial in another in any
civil action before a Circuit or District Court; and no civil suit shall be
brought before either of said courts against any person by any original
process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the
action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only in
the district of the residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant." 25
Stat. 434.

SIAW v. QUINCY MINING COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress, by the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20,
11, conferred jurisdiction on the Circuit Court of suits of a civil,
nature, at common law or in equity, "between a citizen of the
State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another State,"
and provided that "no civil suit shall be brought" "against an
inhabitant of the United States," "in any other district than
that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found
at the time of serving the writ." I Stat. 78,- 79.
The word "inhabitant," in that act, was apparently used,
not in any larger meaning than "citizen," but to avoid the
incongruity of speaking of a citizen of anything less than a
State, when the intention was to cover not only a district
which included a whole State, but also two districts in one
State, like the distriots o Maine and Massachusetts in the State
of Massachusetts, and the districts of Virginia and Kentucky
in the State of Virginia, established by § 2 of the same act.
1 Stat. 73. It was held by this court from the beginning that
an averment that a party resided within the State or the district in which the suit was brought was not sufficient to support the jurisdiction, because in the common use of words a
resident might not be a citizen, and therefore it was not stated
expressly and beyond ambiguity that he was a citizen of the
State, which was the fact on which the jurisdiction depended
under the provisions of the Constitution and of the Judiciary
Act. Bingham v. Cabot, 3 Dall. 382; Turner v. Bank of
.North America, 4 Dall. 8 ; Abercrombie v. Dupuis, 1 Cranch,
343; Rodgson v. Boweran, 5 Cranch, 303; Brown v. KYeene,
8 Pet. 112, 115. The same rule has been maintained to the
presentday, and has been held to be unaffected by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, declaring that "all
persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States
and of the State wherein they reside." Robertson v. Cease,
97 U. S. 646; Grace v. American Ins. Co., 109 U. S. 278;
Timmons v. Elyton Land Co., 139 U. S. 378; Denny v.
Piroi,141 U. S. 121.
By the act of May 4, 1858, c. 27, § 1, it was enacted that, in
a State containing more than: one district, actions not local

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

should "be brought in the district in which the defendani
resides," or "if there be two or more defendants residing ir
different districts in the same State," then in either district
11 Stat. 272. The whole purport and effect of that act wanot to enlarge, but to restrict and distribute jurisdiction. It
applied only to a State containing two or more districts; and
directed suits against citizens of such a State to be brought in
that district thereof in which they or either of them resided.
It did not subject defendants to any new liability to be sued
out of the State of which they were citizens, but simply prescribed in which district of that State they might be sued.
These provisions of the acts of 1789 and 1858 were substantially reenacted in sections 739 and 740 of the Revised Statutes.
The act of Mfarch 3, 1875, c. 137, § 1, after giving the Circuit Courts jurisdiction of suits "in which there shall be a
controversy between citizens of different States," and enlarging their jurisdiction in other respects, substantially reenacted
the corresponding provision of the act of 1789, by providing
that no civil suit should be brought "against any person"
"in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant
or in which he shall be found" at the time of service, with
certain exceptions not affecting the matter now under consideration. 18 Stat. 4710.
The act of 1887, both in its original form, and as corrected
in 1888, reenacts the rule that no civil suit shall be brought
against any person in any other district than that whereof he
is an inhabitant, but omits the clause allowing a defendant to
be sued in the district where he is found, and adds this clause
"But where the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that
the action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be
broughi only in the district of the residence of either the
plaintiff or the defendant." 24 Stat. 552; 25 Stat. 434. As
has been adjudged by this court, the last clause is by way of
proviso to the next preceding clause, which forbids any suit to
be brought in any other district than that whereof the defendant is an inhabitant; and the effect is that "where the jurisdiction is founded upon any of the causes mentioned in this

SHAW v. .QUINOY MINING COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

section, except the citizenship of the parties, it must be
brought in the district of which the defendant is an inhabitant; but where the jurisdiction is founded solely upon the
fact that the parties are citizens of different States, the suit
may be brought in the district in which either the plaintiff or
the defendant resides. 3fcCormi1 Co. v. Walthers, 134 U. S.
41, 43. And the general object of this act, as appears upon
its face, and as has been often declared by this court, is to
contract, not to enlarge, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts
of the United States. Smitkh v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, 320;
-In re Peansylvania Co., 137 U. S.451, 454; ._Fi9k v. Henarie,
142 U. S.459, 467.
As to natural persons, therefore, it cannot be doubted that
the effect of this act, read in the light of earlier acts upon the
same subject, and of the judicial construction thereof, is that
the phrase "district of the residence of" a person is equivalent
to "district whereof he is an inhabitant," and cannot be construedi as giving jurisdiction, by reason of citizenship, to a
Circuit Court held in a State of.which neither party is a citizen, but, on the contrary, restricts the jurisdiction to the district in which one of the parties resides within the State of
which he is a citizen; and that this act, therefore, having
taken away the alternative, permitted in the earlier acts, of
suing a person in the district "in which he shall be found,"
requires any suit, the jurisdiction of which is founded only on
its being between citizens of different States, to be brought in
the State of which one is a citizen, and in the district therein
of which he is an inhabitant and resident.
In the case of a corporation, the reasons are, to say the
least, quite as strong for holding that it can sue and be sued
only in the State and district in which it has been incorporated,
or in the State of which the other party is a citizen.
In Bank of Augusta v. Eare,13 Pet. 519, 588, Chief Justice Taney said: "It is very true that a corporation can have
no legal existence out of the boundaries of the sovereignty by
which it is created. It exists only in contemplation of law,
and by force of the law; and where that law ceases to operate,
and is no longer obligatory, the corporation can have no existVOL. CXLv-29

4:50

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of the Court.

ence. It must dwell in the place of its~creation, and cannot
migrate to another sovereignty. But although it must live
and have its being in that State only, yet it does not by any
means follow that its existence there will not be recognized in
other places; and its residence in one State creates no insuperable objection to its power of contracting in another."
This statement has been often reaffirmed by this court, with
some change of phrase, but always retaining the idea that the
legal existence, the home, the domicil, the habitat, the residence, the citizenship of the corporation can only be in the
State by which it was created, although it may do business in
other States whose laws permit it.
In ]2fayete Ins. Co. v. French, 18 How. 404, in which an
Indiana corporation was sued in Indiana upon a judgment
recovered in an action against it in a state court of Ohio upon
a contract made in that State, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Curtis, and referring to Bank of Augusta v. Earle,said:
"This corporation, existing only by virtue of a law of Indiana,
cannot be deemed to pass personally beyond the limits of that
State;" and held that it was bound by. the judgment, because
it had been allowed by the State of Ohio to make contracts in
that State only upon the reasonable and lawful condition of its
agent, residing and making contracts there, being deemed its
agent to receive service of process in suits upon such contracts;
and therefore that such a judgment recovered after such a
notice was "as valid as if the corporation had had its habitat
within the State." 18 How. 407, 408.
"A corporation," said Chief Justice Waite, "created by and
organized under the laws of a particular State, and having its
principal office there, is, under the Constitution and laws, for
the purpose of suing and being sued, a citizen of that State."
"By doing business away from their legal residence, they'do
not change their citizenship, but simply extend the field of
their operations. They reside at home, but do business
abroad." Railroad Co. v. Eoontz, 104 U. S. 5, 11, 12. See
also Paul v. 7irginia,8 Wall. 168, 181; RailroadCo. v. lEarris, 12 Wall. 65, 81; St. CZair v. Cox, 106 U. S.350, 354, 356;
CanadaSouthern Railway v. Gebhard, 109 U. S. 527,. 537.

SEAW V. QUINCY MINING COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

The same doctrine has been constantly maintained by this
court in applying to corporations the judiciary acts conferring
on the Circuit Courts of the United States jurisdiction of suits
between citizens of different States.
Those acts have never named corporations; and for half a
century after the passage of the first act corporations were
allowed to sue and be sued in the Circuit Courts, only when all
the members of the corporation were, and were alleged to be,
citizens of the State which created the corporation. Bank of
United States v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch, 61; -Hope Ins. Co. v.
Boardman, 5 Cranch, 57; Sullivan v. Fulton Steamboat Co.,
6 Wheat.. 450; Breithaupt v. Ban of Georgia, 1 Pet. 238;
Commercial Bank v. Slocomb, 14 Pet. 60.
But in louisville c. Railroad v. Letson, in 1844, it was
adjudged, upon great consideration, that it is sufficient to sustain the jurisdiction that the corporation is created by a different State from that of which the opposite party is a citizen;
and Mr. Justice Wayne stated that the court rested its judgment upon.. the ground "that a corporation created by and
doing business in a particular State is to be deemed to all
intents and purposes as a person, although an artificial person,
an inhabitant of the same State, for the purposes of its incorporation, capable of being treated as- a citizen of that State,
as much as a natural person," and ." is substantially, within the
meaning of the law,a citizen of the State which created it, and
where its business is done, for alf the purposes of suing and
being sued." 2 Hdw. 497, 558. And it has ever since been
treated as settled that, for these purposes, the members of a
corporate body must be conclusively presumed to be citizens of
the State in'which the corporation is domiciled. Marshall v.
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Comkpany, 16 How. 314, 328;
Covington Drawbridge Co. v' Shepherd, 20 How. 227,.230;
Ohio
X.3Iississippi Railroad v. T-heeler, 1 Black, 286, 296;
3iuller v. 1Dows, 94IU. S.444; Steamship Co. v. Tugman, 106
U. S. 118;121; Memphis & Charleston Railroadv. Alabama,
107 U. S.581, 585.
In Insurance Co. v. Francis,it was held that the act of
March 2, 1867, c. 196, (14 Stat. 558; Rev. Stat. § 639,. ol. 3,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
-Opinion of the Court.

authorizing the removal into the courts of the United States of
suits " between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
.and a citizen of another State," did not warrant the removal
of an action brought in a court of the State of Mississippi, in
which the plaintiff, a citizen of Illinois, alleged that the defendant was a corporation created by the laws of New York,
located and doing business in Mississippi under its laws; and
Mr. Justice Davis, in delivering judgment, said: "This, in
legal effect, is an: averment that the defendant was a citizen of
New York, because a corporation can have no legal existence
outside of the sovereignty by which it was created. Its place
of residence is there, and can be nowhere else. Unlike a
natural person, it cannot change its domicil at will, and,
although it may be permitted to transact business where its
charter does not operate, it cannot, on that account,- acquire a
residence there." 11 Wall. 210, 216.
In E _parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, 377, Chief Justice,
Waite said: "A corporation cannot change its residence or its \
citizenship. It can have its legal home only at the place where
it is located by or under 'the. authority of its charter; but it
may by its agents transact business' anywhere, unless prohibited by its charter, or excluded by local laws." The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in that case, as well as in .ew
England 1ns. Co. v. Woodwortk, 111 U. S. 138, 146, was maintained upon the ground, that the defendant corporation, though
incorporated in another State, yet, by reason of doing business
in the State in which the suit was brought, and having
appointed an agent there as required by its laws, upon whom
process against the company might be served, was found in
that State, within the meaning of the act of March 3, 18,75, c.
'13,73 1, then in force, and hereinbefore cited.
The statute now in question, as already observed, has
repealed the permission to sue a defendant in a district in
which he is found, and has peremptorily enacted that " where
the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is
between citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only
in the district of the residence of either -the plaintiff or the
4Iefendant." In a case between natural persons, as has been

SHAW v. QUINCY MINING COMBPAY.
Opinion of the Court.

seen, this clause does not allow the suit to be brought in a
State of which neither is a citizen. If Congress, in framing
•Ghis clause, did not have corporations in mind, there is no
reason for giving the clause a looser and broader construction
as to artificial persons who were not contemplated, than as to
natural persons who were. If, as-it is more reasonable to suppose, Congress did have corporations in mind, it must be presumed also to have had in mind the law, as long and uniformly
declared by this court, that, within the meaning of the previous
acts of Congress giving jurisdiction of suits between citizens of
different States, a corporation could not be considered a citizen or a resident of a State in which it had not been incorporated.
The Quincy Mining Company, a corporation of Michigan,
having appeared specially for the purpose of taking the objection that it could not be sued in the Southern District of New
York, by a citizen of another State, there can be no question
of waiver, such as has been recognized where a defendant has
appeared generally in a suit between citizens of different States,
brought in the wrong district. Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat.
699; St. Louis & San Francisco Railway v. Xocride, 141
U. S. 127, 131, and cases cited.
This case does not present the question what may be the
rule in suits against an alien or a foreign corporation, which
may be governed by different considerations. Nor does it
affect cases in admiralty, for those- have been adjudged not to
be within the scop6 of the statute. In re, louisville Underwriters, 134 U. S.488.
All that is now decided is that, under the existing act of
Congress a corporation, incorporated in one State only, cannot
be compelled to answer, in a Circuit Court of the United States
held in another State in which it has a usual place of business,
to a civil suit, at law or in equity, brought by a citizen of P.
different State.
TFrit of mandamus denied.
Mm. JusTicE .R x1,&
dissented.

