OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Statement of the Case.

DOWLING v. EXCHANGE BANK OF BOSTON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UlNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
lo.349. Argued April 29, 1892.-Decided May 16, 1892.

An agreement of partnership between three partners for carrying on the
business of sawing lumber, etc., in a village in Michigan, which provided
that no part of the capital should be diverted or used by either partner
otherwise than in the business, two of the partners to secure sawing for
the mill and superintend the financial part of the business, the third partner to have'the management of the work at the mill, did not create a
partnership, each member of which had, under the settled rules of commercial law, and as between the firm and those dealing with it, authority
to give negotiable paper in its name; and, one partner, without the
knowledge of his copartners, having put the firm name to notes which
were discounted by a bank in Boston, but not for the benefit of the
firm, the other partners were entitled, in an action by the bank to recover
on the notes, to have it submitted to the jury whether, under the circumstances, they were estopped to dispute the authority of their partner to
make them and to put them in circulation.

THE court stated the case as follows:
Edward P. Ferry, of Grand Haven, Michigan, and George
*E. Dowling and Frank H. White,.of Montague, in the same
.State, entered, February 1, 1873, into written articles of copartnership, "for the purpose of carrying on the business of
sawing lumber, pickets and laths at the said village of Montague, in the steam saw mill lately there erected," the name
of the firm being F. H. White & Co., and the partnership to
continue for the full term of five years, unless sooner dissolved
by agreement. Of the capital of the firm Ferry contributed
one-half, and Dowling and White one-fourth each:
By the written terms of the partnership, no part of the capital was to be diverted or used by either partner, otherwise than
in the business;, the profits and losses were to be shared according to their respective interests; Ferry and Dowling were to
-have the care and charge of securing the sawing for the mill,
the supervision of the financial part of the business and of the
firm's books to be divided between them, as they might agree

DOWLING v. EXCHANGE BANK.
Statement of the Case.

-without charge for their services; and White -was to -have
full management of the work of sawing, of hiring and discharging of men and fixing their wages, keeping double entry
books, which should be open at any time for the inspection of
the partners, and receiving for his services one thousand dollars, to be paid by the firm. It was further provided that the
books of the firm should be closed as of January 31, in each
year, the profits then to be ascertained and passed to the
credit of the respective partners, and applied in a specified way.
At the date of the several transactions out of which this
litigation arose there was a firL, Ferry & Bro., at Grand
Haven, Michigan, engaged in business as manufacturers of and
dealers in lumber and shingles. It was composed of Thomas
W. Ferry and Edward P. Ferry.
The present action involved the question of the liability of
F. H. White & Co. upon three promissory notes, bearing date,
respectively, Montague, Michigan, October 17, 1882, November 27, 1882, and January 15, 1883, and for the respective sums
of $5288.75, $5100.73 and $5391.90, and payable, each,,four
months after date, to the order. of Ferry & Bro., " at the
National Exchange Bank, Boston, Mass., value received."
Each note was endorsed by Thomas W. Ferry, in the name of
Ferry & Bro., and was sold by him, acting in the name of his
firm, to that bank. Neither White nor Dowling- whose firm
continued in business under the above articles of partnership
until May 31, 1883 -had any knowledge of the existence of
these notes until after their respective maturities, nor until
shortly before the commencement of this action. Neither
authorized the notes to be given. They were gotten up by
Thomas W. Ferry, with the aid of Edward P. Ferry and one
Thompson, the bookkeeper of Ferry & Bro., the latter acting
under the direction of -Thomas W. Ferry. The proceeds were
used for the benefit of Thomas W. Ferry, or of his firm. ,The
firm. name of F. H. White & Co. to each note was signed by
Edward P. Ferry, who did, not communicate to White and
Dowling that he had done so.
Separate actions having been brought by the bank upon the
notes, they were, by consent,, consolidated. Before the order
VOL. cx_ v-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

of consolidation was made Dowling filed in each action his.
affidavit, stating that "on the 17th day of October, 1882, he
was, and still is, a member of the copartnership firm of F. H.
White & Co., of M:ontague, Michigan; that said firm was at
said time, and still is, composed of Edward P. Ferry, Frank
H. White, and this deponent as copartners ;" that "he never
executed the promissory note, a copy of which was served
upon him with the plaintiff's declaration;" that "the signature thereto is not in the handwriting of this deponent; and
that said promissory note was not executed by any person
having authority to bind this deponent or to bind the said
defendants, Edward P. Ferry, Frank H. White, and this
deponent jointly upon said promissory note."
A verdict was returned in favor of the plaintiff for $17,'791.45, the court saying to the jury: "Regretting very much
that these defendants White and Dowling, who alone make
defence here, are in such a situation that they must suffer
from the wrong-doing of their associate, the court is unable to
relieve them without violating principles of law which are
essential to the security of mercantile business, and violating
also the rights of parties innocent of the wrong. As there is,
in the opinion of the court, no question of fact about which
there is any conflict in the evidence, the court holds that, giving effect to the testimony, the plaintiff is entitled to a verdict,
and you are instructed to find accordingly against all the
defendants." The opinion which preceded this charge is
reported in 30 Fed. Rep. 412.
Judgment having been rendered upon the verdict, a severance was duly had between the defendants, so as to authorize
a writ of error in the name of Dowling alone.
.M. M1ichael Brown (with whom was MAr. J C. -Fitzgerald
on the brief) for plaintiff in error.
_Mr. fark Norris (with whom was Mr. Lyman -D.NAorris
on the brief) for defendant in error.
To sustain the defence made it must appear that F. H.
White & Co. was a co-partnership of such a character that the

DOWLING v. EXCHANGE BANK.

515

Argument for Defendant in Error.

members thereof had no authority, underi any circumstances,
to make commercial paper."
If they had power to make negotiable paper for, the firm's
use, then the paper in suit is good in this bank's hands, it
being beyond dispute a bonajWle purchaser for value before
maturity, and without notice of any defect or irregularity in
the issue of the notes.
To sustain the defence in this case, these notes must have
been void at issue, for lack. of power to make them

-not

voidable -for fraud. It is impossible to say so on this
record.
In cases where partnerships are engaged in buying and selling it is settled that the law implies authority to make commercial paper, and that paper made by one co-partner in such
firms though not used in the firm business is bipding on the
firm, in the hands of a good faith holder for value before
maturity. Wagner v. Simmons, 61 Alabama, 143; Prince v.
Crawford, 50 Mississippi, 314, 358; Winship v. Bank of the
United States, 5 Pet..529; Ziimbro v. Bullitt, 22 How. 256;
Walworth v. Renderson, 9 La. Ann. 339; State Bank v. Noyes,
62 N. H. 35; -oskinson v. -lliot, 62 Penn. St. 393; Smith
v. Collins, 115 Mass. 388.
But in cases where the firm is not engaged in buying and
selling, the question whether partners have the authority to
make commercial paper is a question of fact, and such power
will be held to exist on proof: (1) Of express authority; or
(2) Of the necessity of such power to the successful conduct of
the business; or (3) Of the usage of similar- firms engaged in
the same business; or (4) Of the usage of the particular firm.
Prince v. Crawford, 50 Mississippi, 344; Smith v. 'loan, 31
Wisconsin, 285 ; Gray v. Mard, 18 Illinois, 32; State Bank v.
NYoyes, 62 N. H. 35.; I win v. Williar, 110 U. S. 499.
The evidence as to the character of this partnership, the
scope of its business and the actual course and conduct thereof
came wholly from defendants below and was in no way con.tradioted or disputed. It'therefore became the duty of the
court to direct a verdict. Orleans v. Platt, 99 U. S. 676;
Inprovement Co, v. .unson, 11 Wall. 442; TFalbrun v. Bab-

OCTOBER TERM, 1891.
Opinion of tae C6urt.

bitt, 16 Wall. 577; Arthur v. Morgan, 112 U. S. 495; County
of Macon v. Shores, 97 U. S. 272; KYerchants' Bank v. State
'Bank, 10 Wall. 604; Railroad 0o. v. Jones, 95 U. S. 439;
Pleasantsv. -ant, 22 Wall. 110.
Mn. JUSTICE HARL&N,, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is not .disputed that the execution by Edward P. Ferry,
in the name of F. H. )White & Co., of the notes in suit, was
without express authority of Lis partners, and that neither of
the notes was given or used in-the business of that firm. The
piimary question, therefore, is, whether, for the protection of
the plaintiff a bona fide purchaser for value, it will be conclusively implied, as matter of law, from the nature or course of
the firm's business, that Edward P. Ferry had authority from
his partners to make those notes or either of them.
Mr. Justice Clifford, speaking for the court in Eimbro v.
Bullitt, 22 iHow. 256, 268, said that "wherever the business,
according to the usual mode of conducting it, imports, in its
nature, the necessity of buying and selling, the firm is then.
properly regarded as a trading partnership, and is invested
with all the powers and subject to all the obligations incident
to that relation," citing, among other cases, TWinship v. Bank
of United States, 5 Pet. 529, 561. Mr. Justice Story said
that the doctrine-that each partner -may bind the firm by bills
of exchange, promissory -notes and other negotiable instru:
fnents is generally limited to partnerships in trade and commerce, and does not apply to other partnerships unless it is
the common custom or usage of such business to bind the firm
by negotiable instruments, or it is necessary for the due transaction thereof. Story on Partnership, ยง 102, a.
-In Irwin v. Tiliar,110 U. S. 499, 505, Mr. Justice Matthews, speaking for the court, said: "The liability of one partner, for acts and contracts done and made by his copartners,
without his actual knowledge or assent, is a question of agency.
If the authority is denied by the actual agreement between the
partners, with notice to the party who claims under it, there is

DOWLING v. EXCHANGE BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

no partnership obligation. If the contract of partnership is
silent, or the party with whom the dealing has taken place has
no notice of its limitations, the authority for each transaction
may be implied from the nature of the business according to
the ordinary and usual course in which it is carried on by those
engaged in it in the locality which is its seat, or as reasonably
necessary or fit for its successful prosecution. If it cannot be
found in that, it may still be inferred from the actual though
exceptional course and conduct of the business of the partnership itself, as personally carried on with the knowledge, actual
or presumed, of the partners sought to be charged." Again:
"What the nature of that business in each case is, what is necessary and proper to its successful prosecution, what is involved
in the usual and ordinary course of its management by those
engaged in it, at the place and time where it is carried on, are
all questions of fact to be decided by the jury, from a consideration of all the circumstances which, singly or in combination,
affect its character or determine its peculiarities, and from them
all, giving to each its due weight, it is its province to ascertain
and say whether the transaction in question is one which those
*dealing with the firm had reason tu believe was authorized by
all its members. The difficulty and duty of drawing'the inference suitable to each case from all its circumstances cannot be
avoided or supplied by affixing or ascribing to the business some
general name, and deducing from that, as a matter of law, the
rights of the public and the duties -of the partners."
It is. very clear that the articles of agreement between Ferry,
White and Dowling did not crieate a partnership, each member
of which had, under the settled rules of commercial law, and as
between the firm and those dealing with it, authority to give
negotiable paper in its name. The firm was of the class denominated in many adjudged cases as non-trading or non-commercial firms, the members of which could not be held, as matter
of law, and by reason of the nature of the partnership business,
to* have authority to execute negotiable instruments in the
name of the firm.
We quite agree with the learned judge who presided at the
trial, that the liability of a partnership upon negotiable instru-

OCTQBER TERM, 1891.
-v.pmion o'tire--C6irt. I

ments executed by one partner in the name -of the firm, exists
not only where the firm is a trading or commercial partnership, but ".where the actual course of business pursued adopts
the .practice of issuing the mercantile paper of the firm to
accommodate its necessities or convenience whenever the occasions occur." But the difficulty in this case is that the jury
were not permitted to determine, from a consideration of all
the circumstances of the case, what, in view of the admitted
nature of the business of F. H. White & Co., was necessary and
proper to its successful operation, what was involved in t! e
usual and ordinary course of its management by-those engaged
in it, or what should heinferre& from the actual cou'rse and conduct of the partnership, so far as it was known, or ought reasonably to have been known, to the parties sought to be charged with
liability on the notes in suit. We do npideem it meeessary to
make a detailed statement of the numerous facts disclosed by
the evidence, or to suggest what inference might be drawin
from them. It is sufficient to say that the issue as to whether
the defendants were estopped to'dispute the authority of Edward P. Ferry to make'the notes-in suit, in the name of F. IT.
White & Co., was one peculiarly for the jury, under all the
facts indicating the nature, necessities, and course of business
of the firm, and under proper instru76tions from the court as-to
the legal principles by which they should be guided in determining the case.
We think the-court erred in holding, as matter of law, that
the jury were not at liberty, under any view of the facts, to
'find for the defendants. It seems to us that a verdict in their
favor would not have been so palpably against the evidence as
to have made it the duty of the court to set it aside -and grant
a new trial.
The judgment is reversed as to the defendant -Dowling,who
alone prosecutes this writ of error, with directions to

grant him a new trial.

