STRAUS v. NOTASEME CO.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ISADOR STRAUS ET AL., TRADING AS R. H. MACY
& CO., v. NOTASEME HOSIERY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 184.

Argued January 17, 18, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.

While one using an unregistered design similar to that adopted earlier
by another may be enjoined from further use thereof, he may not be
charged with profits if it appear that the original imitation was
unintentional, that no deceit or substitution of goods was accomplished in fact,' and that no considerable part of the business was
due to his goods being supposed to be those of the earlier user of the
design.
One innocently adopting an unregistered design and continuing to use
the same after notice., not for the purpose of stealing the good will of
the earlier user but of preserving his own business, held, in this case,
not to be charged with profits not shown to have been obtained by
sales of articles supposed to be those of the earlier user.
Relief for unfair competition not given, as the supposed unfairness
consisted mainly in the use of a device thdt the earlier user sought
to have registered but was refused.
215 Fed. Rep. 361, reversed in part.
THE facts, which involve questions of unfair competition
by using an unregistered trade-mark adopted as a business
design for hosiery, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edmond E. Wise for petitioner.
Mr. E. Haywood Fairbanks, with whom Mr. James H.

Grifin was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the Notaseme Hosiery
Company to restrain infringement of a registered trademark and unfair, competition alleged to have been. practiced by the petitioners, and to recover damages and

.OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

profits. The plaintiff's trade-mark, as registered, was a
rectangle with a black band running from the left hand
upper to the right hand lower corner, the upper and lower
panels on the two sides of the band -being printed in red.
As used, it contained the word Notaseme in white script
upon the black band, with the words Trade Mark in
small letters upon the white, and beneath the label was
printed "Reg. U. S. Pat. Office." In fact registration
had been refused to the label with the word Notaseme
upon it, that word being merely a corrupted description
of the seamless hosiery sold. The defendants, among
other items of a large retail business in New York, sold
hose with seams, which they advertised under the name
Irontex. After this name had been adopted, in pursuance
of their request designs were submitted to them and one
was chosen. It turned out that this was made by the
printer who had made the Notaseme label. It also was
a rectangle with a diagonal black band and red panels,
the band in this case running from the right hand upper
corner to the left hand lower, and having the word Irontex
in white script upon the band and 'The hose that-wears
like iron' printed in black upon the two triangles of red.
The defendants never had seen or heard of the plaintiff,
its label or its goods until November, 1909, when they
were notified by the plaintiff that they were infringing
its registered trade-mark. They ultimately stood upon
their rights.
At the original hearing in the Circuit Court it was held
that the plaintiff had embodied such a misrepresentation
in the trade-mark as used that it would not be protected,
and that unfair dealing was not made out. This decision
was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals on the
ground that although the evidence did not show actual
deception, the label used by the defendants so far resembled the plaintiff's that it would have deception as
its natural result and that the plaintiff was entitled to

STRAUS v. NOTASEME CO.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

relief whether the trade-mark on its label was good or
bad as such. 201 Fed. Rep. 99. The plaintiff was allowed to recover profits from a reasonable time after the
defendants had notice of the similarity of the two designs,
which was put at January 1, 1910. 209 Fed. Rep. 495.
215 Fed. Rep. 361. 131 C. C. A. 503.
We agree with the Circuit Court that the plaintiff is
not in a position to recover for an infringement of a registered trade-mark. The mark that it used held out to the
public as registered in the Patent Office precisely the element that had been rejected there. It affirmed that the
authority of the United States had sanctioned that for
which that authority had been refused, and by grasping
at too much lost all so far as this case is concerned. Holzapfel's Compositions Co. v. Rahtjen's American Composition Co., 183 U. S. 1, 8. The liability of the defendant must
be derived from unfair competition if it exists.
That it was unfair to continue the use of a label so
similar in general character to the plaintiff's we are not
disposed to deny. But it does not follow that the defendants are chargeable with profits as a matter-of course.
Very possibly the statutory rule for wrongful use of a
trade-mark may be extended by analogy to unfair competition in a propef case. But as the ground of recovery in
the latter instance is that the defendant has taken some
undue advantage of the plaintiff's reputation, or that of
his goods, and as the nature and extent of the wrong may
vary indefinitely, it cannot be assumed in all cases that
the defendant's sales were due to that alone.
Ordinarily imitation is enough. to imply that the matter
imitated is important at least to the sale of the goods.
But when the similarity arises as the one before us did,
it indicates nothing, except perhaps the poverty of the
designer's invention. Furthermore the defendants' persistence in their use of the design after notice proves little
or nothing against them. They had been advertising

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

their goods by name and using the design in connection
with the name. The natural interpretation is not that
they wanted to steal the plaintiff's goodwill of which they
then learned for the first time, but that they wished to
preserve their own. When they stood upon their rights
of course they made themselves responsible for the continued use of a label that might be held likely to deceive,
and if it should be held manifestly to have that tendency,
they would be chargeable for what in contemplation of
law was. an intentional wrong, or a fraud, although the
case is wholly devoid of any indication of an actual intent to deceive, or to steal the reputation of the plaintiff's
goods. If the defendants' conduct was a wrong, as we
have assumed, it was a wrong knowingly committed, but
no further inference against the defendants can be drawn
from the fact.
It seems a strong thing to give relief on the ground of
unfair competition when the supposed unfairness consists
mainly.in the imitation of a device that sought, obtained
and lost protection as a trade-mark. If a would-be trademark loses its protection as such, that means that the
public has a right to use it, and it would be strange to
bring the protection back simply by giving it another
name. If the red square with the diagonal black band is
not a trade-mark it would seem to be free to the world.
See Flagg Manufacturing Co. v. Holway, 178 Massachusetts, 83, 91. Saxlehner v. Wagner, 216 U. S. 375, 380, 381.
We assume that coupled with the script upon the band
there is sufficient pictorial similarity to deceive some
persons, but, unless we go considerably farther, to charge
the defendants with all the profits would be unjust.
The question remains whether the petitioners' sales
probably were induced to any large extent by confusion
in the mind of the public between the petitioners' goods
and the plaintiff's. The goods were different in character,
were called by a different name, were sold mainly in dif-

STRAUS v. NOTASEME CO.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ferent places and by parties not likely to be mistaken for
each other. The petitioners had advertised them as
'Irontex since April, 1908. Their business was that of
retailers in the City of New York where they were widely
known. The Notaseme Company's business was wholesale, from Philadelphia, starting with New England and
the South. So far as purchasers bought because the
petitioners recommended the goods, or on the strength
of the name, by whatever recommended, as distinguished
from the colors and figures of the label, or from knowledge
of the specific article, or from preference for full fashioned
over seamless hose, or fir any reason but the inducement
of the red square, bar and script supposed to indicate the
plaintiff's hose, the plaintiff has no claim on the petitioners' profits.
There is some indication that the plaintiff's business
was mainly in hosiery for men, while Macy & Co.'s was
more than three-quarters for women and children. That
the name, which the defendants do not imitate, but on the
contrary exclude by using another wholly unlike it, was
thought more important by the plaintiff than it now is
willing to admit, is shown not only by the use of it*upon
the trade-mark proper, but by the adoption of a new name
for the plaintiff company to conform to it. Taking all
these considerations into account, coupled with the absence of evidence that any deceit or substitution was
accomplished in fact, we find it impossible to believe that
any considerable part of the petitioner's business was due
to their goods being supposed to be the plaintiff's hose.
The petitioners properly were enjoined from further use
of the mark in controversy, but so far as the decree charged
them with profits it is reversed.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

