PITNEY v. WASHINGTON.
240 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

PITNEY v. STATE OF WASHINGTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 242.

Argued October 29, November 1, 2, 1915.-Decided March 6,
1916.

On authority of Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., ante, p. 342, and
Tanner v. Little, ante, p. 369, held that the trading stamp license
statute of Washington is not unconstitutional undei the commerce
clause of, or the due process or equal protection provision of the
Fourteenth Amendment to, the Federal Constitution.
79 Washington, 608, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, under the
commerce clause of the. Federal Constitution and the
due process and equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment thereto, of the trading stamp license
tax laws of the State of Washington, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Louis Marshall, with whom Mr. Sol. M. Stroock
was on the brief, forplaintiff in error:
The Washington statute under which the plaintiff in
error has been convicted, violates the Fourteenth Amendment, in that it deprives him of his liberty and property
without due process of law.

The act cannot be sustained as a revenue measure, its
purpose being clearly to prohibit the use of an incidental
business instrumentality by means of a confiscatory license
fee, in evasion of rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The act, upon its face, indicates that it is not a revenue
measure.
Even, if viewed as pospibly a revenue measure, this act
would be invalid.
The statute does not purport to be a'revenue law, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

is at most merely a license law enacted in the attempted
exercise of the police power.
Independently of these views, this legislation deprives
merchants who use in their business stamps, coupons,
tickets, certificates or similar devices, in connection with
their sales, of the equal protection of the law.
Mr. Dallas V. Halherstadt and Mr. BlaCkburn Esterline,
with whom Mr. W. V. Tanner, Attorney General of the
State of Washington, and Mr. Alfred H. Lundin were on
the brief, for defendant in error.'
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
'A companion case with Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, antej
p. 342, and Tanner v. Little, ante, p. 369., It was argued and
submitted with those cases and involves the same general
questions and the validity-of the statute passed upon in
the latter case.
A criminal information was filed in the Superior Court
of the State of Washington for the County of King charging that the United Cigar Stores Company, Inc., a New
Jersey corporation, doing business in the State of Washington, owned and conducted a certain store and place of
business in the City of Seattle and had not then or theretofore obtained a separate license from the auditor of the
county entitling it at its store and place of business to use
or furnish to other persons, etc., to use, in, with or for the
sale of any goods, etc., any stamps, etc., or other similar
devices, entitling the purchaser receiving the same to
procure from any person, etc., any goods, etc., free of
charge or for less than the retail price thereof upon the
production of any number of said stamps, etc.
That Pitney (plaintiff in error), at said place of business,
I For abstract of argument, sec ante, p. 375.

PITNEY v. WASHINGTON.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

well knowing the above facts, did then and there unlawfully, as the manager, servant and agent of the United
Cigar Stores Company, Inc., use and furnish in, with and
in connection with the sale of certain goods, etc., to one
John Garvin a certain stamp, etc., of the following tenor:
"No. 139,198. Dr.
"United Cigar Stores Company (Incorporated).
" CERTIFICATE.

"Cash value at any Profit Sharing Station in the State
of Washington, 1 cent, but average ,merchandise value,
according to profit sharing list, 2 cents..
"This certificate represents a twenty-five cent purchase.
and is redeemable according to the conditions of our profit
sharing list. Ask for a copy of list. Redeemable only
by the person to Whom originally issued.
"United Cigar Stores Company (Incorporated).
"Largest Cigar Retailers in the world."
And it was alleged that Garvin received the same.
A demurrer was filed to the information, the grounds
of which were, as alleged, that the defendant had not
violated any law, that the information failed to state
facts sufficientto constitute a crime or misdemeanor and
that it did not charge any offense against the laws of
Washington. The demurrer was sustained and the case
dismissed. This action was reversed by the Supreme
Court of the State and the cause remanded with directions
to overrule the demurrer. 79 Washington, 608.
Upon the return of the case to the Superior Court the
demurrer was overruled and defendant pleaded guilty.
He then moved in arrest of judgment, invoking against
the law and sentence under it Articles V and VIII of the
Constitution of the United States and § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment of that Constitution.
It was stipulated that Pitney, as charged, furnished
Garvin a certain stamp, etc., which entitled Garvin to
procure from the United Cigar Stores Co., Inc., upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

production of a certain specified number of such stamps,
etc., or other similar device, certain goods, etc., free of
charge; that the stamp, etc., so delivered to Garvin was
redeemable by the company alone and entitled him to
receive from the company and from no other such goods,
etc.; that the stamp, etc., was by its terms redeemable
in goods, etc., or 1 cent in cash at the option of the holder
as provided by the laws of the State of Washington.1
Judgment of a fine of $10 and costs was pronounced
against him, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court
for the reasons announced in its former opinion. The
case was then brought here by writ of error allowed by
the Chief Justice of the State.
The court Overruled Leonard v. Bassindale, 46 Washington, 301, in which case it had decided that the law,
passed in 1905, prohibiting the use of trading stamps was
unconstitutional, giving as reason that the police power of
the State, as expounded and illustrated by the decisions
of this court, was legally exercised in the passage of the
statute.
The reasons and conclusion of the court are combated
The law of Washington, passed in 1907 (Laws 1907, p. 742), provided:
(§ 1) That no stamps, etc., or other similar device which should entitle the holder thereof to receive from the vendor or indirectly through
any other person, money or goods, etc., should be sold or issued unless
each of the stamps, etc., should have legibly printed or written upon the
face thereof the redeemable value thereof in cents.
(§ 2) That such stamps, etc., should be redeemable in goods, etc.,
or in cash, good aiAd lawful moriey of the United States, it the option
of the holder thereof," and any number of such stamps, etc., should be
redeemed at the value thereof in cents printed on the face thereof, and
it should not be necessary for the holder thereof to have any stipulated
number of the same.
(§ 3) That in case of refusal to redeem the stamps, etc., the vendor or
such other person should be liable to the holder thereof for the face
value thereof.
(§ 4) -Violation of the act is made a misdemeanor.

BADDERS v. UNITED, STATES.
240 U. S.

391:

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

by plaintiff in error by the same considerations and arguments that were advanced in Rast v. Van Demaan & Lewis,
ante, p. 342, and Tanner v. Little, ante, p. 369. What
we said in answer to them there we need not repeat here,
and upon the authority of those cases the judgment of the
Supreme Court must be, and it is,
Affirmed.

BADDERS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 521.

Argued February 23, 24, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1916.

Congress has power to regulate the overt act of putting a letter into
the post Office of the United States; and may prohibit, under penalty, such an act when done in' furtherance of a .scheme which it
regards as contrary to public policy, whether it can forbid the
scheme or not, and so held as to.Criminal Code, § 215.
Intent may make criminal an act, otherwise innocent, if it is a step
in a plot.,
Congress may enact that each putting of a letter in a post office is a
separate offense.
The punishment imposed in this ease on each of five counts, of five
years, the periods being concurrent and not cumulative, and a fine of
$1,000 on each of seven counts, held not to be cruel and unusual
within the prohibition of the Federal Constitution.
This court condemns the extravagant and unnecessary multiplication
of. exceptions and assignments of error.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitutionality of § 215, Criminal Code, and the validity of a

conviction and sentence thereunder, are 'stated in the
opinion.
Mr. James H. Harkless, with whom Mr. D. R. Hite and
Mr. Clifford Histed were on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Section 215 of the Criminal Code as applied to the in-

