OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY v. BYERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
CAROLINA.
No. 201. Submitted March 2, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.
Rights and liabilities in connection with interstate shipments depend
upon acts of Congress, the bill of lading, and common-law principles
accepted and enforced by Federal courts.
In order to determine the validity and effect.of restrictions upon liability contained in bills of lading issued by carrier for interstate
shipments, applicable schedules on file with the Interstate Commerce
Commission are material, and held error to exclude them in this case.
The common-law rule long recognized in the Federal courts is that
mere mental pain and anxiety are too vague for legal redress where
no injury is done to person, property, health or reputation; and so
held, in an action against an express company, that the consignee
of a casket and grave clothes, who admittedly sustanied no pecuniary
damage by reason of delay in delivery, was not entitled to recover
any damages whatever for mere mental suffering occasioned by such
delay.
165 N. Car. 542, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a shipper to recover damages for the mental anguish caused by delay
in arrival- of an interstate shipment, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Julius C. Martin, Mr. Thomas S. Rollins, Mr. George
H. Wright and Mr. Robert C. Alston for plaintiff in error.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant in

error.
AR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the.
court.

Claiming damages solely on account of mental anguish
occasioned by failure promptly to deliver a casket and

SOUTHERN EXPRESS CO. v. BYERS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

grave clothes intended for his wife's burial and accep,.
by plaintiff in error with knowledge of the facts at Asheville, North Carolina, for transportation to Hickory
Grove, South Carolina, Byers recovered a judgment
against it for $250, and this wasaffirmed by the Supreme
Court of North Carolina. 165 N. Car. 542.
In defense the Express Company averred: That while
engaged in interstate commerce: it received the described
articles at Asheville and transported them to Hickory
Grove; that, as required by act of Congress approved
June 29, 1906, and amendments, it had filed a schedule
of rates with the Interstate Commerce Commission; that
at time of shipment it issued a bill of lading lihiiting
liability to $50; that it had paid the shipper the full
amount expended by him in purchasing the articles; that
no present liability exists, and especially under the laws
of the United States it is not responsible for such damages
as those specified.
There was put in evidence a duly executed receipt for
$64.17, "being in full payment for one coffin delivered to
Southern Express Company at Asheville, N. C., on
April 1st, 1912, by John Byers, to be shipped to Sarah
* Moore, Hickory Grove, South Carolina.;" and Byers
testified that "the Southern Express Company paid him
for all the money he had paid out on the casket and other
things contained in the shipment, but did not pay him
anything for damages." The bill of Jading was also
introduced. It specified no value and undertook' to restrict the carrier's liability to $50. Clause 1 is copied in'
the margin.' Objection was sustained to a seasonable
'1. In consideration of the rate charged for carrying said property
which is regulated bythe value and classification thereof and is based
upon a valuation of not exceeding fifty dollars for any shipment of one
hundred 'pounds or less, and not ekceeding fifty cents per pound for
any shipment in excess of one hupdred pounds, unless a greater value
is declared at time of shipment, Ehe shippe, agrees that the company

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

offer by the company to prove its schedules of rates on
file with the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Manifestly the shipment was interstate commerce; and,
under the settled doctrine established by our former
opinions, rights and liabilities in connection therewith
depend upon acts of Congress, the bill of lading and com-

mon law principles accepted and enforced by the Federal
courts. In order to determine the validity and effect of
restrictions upon liability contained in such bills, it is
important, if not indeed essential, to consider the applicable schedules on file with the Commission. Adams
Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; C., B. & Q. Ry.
v. Miller, 226 U. S. 513; C., St. P., M. & 0. Ry. v. Latta,
226 U. S. 519; Wells, Fargo & Co. v. Neiman-Marcus Co.,
227 U. S. 469; Kansas Southern Ry. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639;
Mo., Kans. & Tex. Ry. v. Harriman, 227 U. S. 657;
Chicago, R. I. & Pac.Ry. v. Cramer, 232 U. S. 490; Boston
& Maine R. R. v. Ho6ker, 233 U. S. 97; Pierce Co. v. Wells,
Fargo & Co., 236 U. S. 278; N. Y. & Norfolk R&R. v.
PeninsulaExchange, 240 U. S. 34.
It was plain error to exclude the rate schedules.
shall not be liable in any event for more than fifty dollars ($50) on any
shipment of one hundred pounds or less, and for not exceeding fifty
cents per pound on a shipment weighing more than one hundred pounds,
and said property is valued at, and the liability of this company is
hereby limited to, the value above stated, unless a greater value is
declared at the time of shipment, and the charge for value paid or
agreed to be paid therefor; and in case of partial loss or damage the
company shall not be liable for more than such proportion of the same
as $50 if one hundred pounds or less in weight, or fifty cents per pound
if weight exceeds one hundred pounds, or the value declared bears to the
actual value if greater.
If the said property is offered for shipment under the special rates
named in Sections "D" and "E" of the existing Official Express Classification, it is agreed that the value of the same does not exceed ten
dollars ($10) per package, said rates not applying on packages of greater
value.

SOUTHERN EXPRESS CO. v. BYERS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Having been requested in apt time, the trial court
refused to charge the jury as follows: "As the shipment
which is alleged to have been delayed was a shipment
in interstate commerce, and as the damage claimed by
the plaintiff is damage for mental suffering only on account of the delay of the delivery of said shipment, the
court instructs the jury that under the evidence in this
case the plaintiff is not entitled-to recover any such damage; the jury is therefore directed to render. a verdict for
the defendant." This instruction should have been given.
The action is based upon a claim for mental suffering
only-nothing else was set up and the proof discloses no
other injury for which compensation had not been made.
In such circumstances as those presented here, the longrecognized common law rule -permitted no recovery; the
decisions to this effect "rest upon the elementary principle
that mere mental pain and anxiety are too vague for legal
redress where no injury is done to person, property, health
or reputation." Cooley on Torts, 3d Ed., page 94. The
lower .Federal courts, ahnQst without exception, have
adhered to this doctrine, and in so doing we think they
were clearly right upon principle and also in accord with
the great weight of authority. Chase v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 44 Fed. Rep. 554; Crawson v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 47
Fed. Rep. 544; Wilcox v. Richmond & D. R. R., 52 Fed.
Rep. 264; Tyler v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 54 Fed. Rep. 634;
Kester v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 55 Fed. Rep. 603; West. Un.
Tel. Co. v. Wood, 57 Fed. Rep. 471; Gahan v. West. Un.
Tel. Co., 59 Fed. Rep. 433; McBride v. Sunset Tel. Co.,
96 Fed. Rep. 81; Stansell v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 107 Fed.
Rep. 668; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Sklar, 126 Fed. Rep. 295;
Alexander v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 126 Fed. Rep. 445; Rowan
v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 149 Fed. Rep. 550; West. Un. Tel.
Co. v. Burris, 179 Fed. Rep. 92; Kyle v. Chicago, R. I. & P.
Ry., 182 Fed. Rep. 613. But see Beasley v. West. Un. Tel.
Co., 39 Fed. Rep. 181.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

In So Relle v. West. Un. Tel. Co. (1881), 55 Texas, 308,
the Supreme Court of Texas held the addressee of a message might recover damages of a telegraph company because of mere mental suffering. Subsequently the courts
of Alabama, Iowa, Kentucky, Nevada, North Carolina
and Tennessee, approved and enforced a like rule; those of
Dakota, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas,
Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Virginia and West Virginia, definitely rejected the
innovation. Many of the pertinent cases are reviewed in
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Chouteau (1911), 28 Oklahoma, 664,
S. C., 49 L. R. A. (N. S.) 206, and note; the general subject
is discussed and the authorities cited in Sutherland on
Damages, 3d Ed., §§ 975 et seq., Sedgwick on Damages, 9th
Ed., §§ 43 et seq., and Shearman & Redfield on Negligence,
6th Ed., §§ 756 et seq.
The j-udgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

cur in the result.

and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES con-

