ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. v. MESSINA.
240 U. S.

Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

Jones v. United States, 162 Fed. Rep. 417, 421. S. C., 212
U. S. 576. Commonwealth v. Bannon, 97 Massachusetts,
214, 220. See Brees v. United States, 226 U. S. 1, 11. As
to the arraignment see Garland v. Washington, 232 U. S.
642, 646, 647. We deem it unnecessary to go into further
detail.
Judgment affirmed.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MESSINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.
No. 535.

Argued February 23, 1916.--Decided March 6, 1916.

While the Anti-pass Provision of the Hepburn Act of 1906 may have
had more formal uses especially in view than that of allowing a
person to ride upon an interstate train by permission of an employ6

of the carrier, this court carmot limit the prohibition to such uses.
There being a question whether plaintiff, who was injured while riding

free by consent of the engineer on the engine of an interstate train,
could have recovered under state law had his presence been illegal
under the Federal statute, held that it was reversible error not to

have charged the jury that the Federal act applied.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Anti-pass provision of the Hepburn Act of
1906, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. R. Vi Fletcher, with whom Mr. Edward Mayes
and Mr. Blewett Lee were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Mr. Harry Peyton, with whom Mr. William H. Watkins
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action for personal injuries suffered by the
defendant in error while upon a train running from Mississippi to Tennessee. He had paid no fare but was upon
the tender, as he said, by permission of the engineer.
The engineer had noticed that the water was high between
Beatty and Sawyer and over the track at Sawyer. After
passing Beatty the train was going at a rate variously
put as thirty-five to fifty or sixty miles an hour when it
ran into the water and was thrown from the track. The
plaintiff was caught between the tender and a car and
badly hurt.
The plaintiff got a judgment for $10,000, which was
sustained by the Supreme Court. At the iiial the jury
were instructed that the defendant railroad was presumed
to be negligent and that if the evidence left it doubtful
it was their duty to find full damages for the plaintiff.
The judge refused to instruct them that the engineer had
no authority to permit the plaintiff to ride on the train
'at the place he was in,' but the request for this instruction was based upon the company's rules, not upon the
Act to Regulate Commerce. The Supreme Court, however, discussed the act of Congress and held that it did not
apply to the case.
By ยง 1 of the act of Feb. 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, as
amended by the act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat.
584, and still in force, any common carrier violating the
provisions against free transportation is guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a penalty, and any person other
than those excepted 'who uses any such interstate . .
free transportation' is made subject to a like penalty.
No doubt the enactment had somewhat more formal

ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R. v. MESSINA.
240 U. S.

HuGdms. J., dissenting.

uses especially in view, but we see no reason for limiting
the prohibition to them. The word 'such' like 'said'
seems to us to indicate no more than that free transportation had been mentioned before. We cannot think that
if a prominent merchant or official should board a train
and by assumption and an air of importance should
obtain free carriage he would escape the Act. We are
of opinion therefore that the Act was construed wrongly.
Assuming, As it has been assumed, that the defendant's
liability was governed otherwise by state law, it seems
doubtful under the state decisions whether the plaintiff
would have been allowed to recover had the court been
of opinion that the act of Congress made his presence on
the train illegal. West Un. Tel. Co. v. McLaurin, 66
So. Rep. 739. And although there are expressions in
the opinion below that raise a doubt, the fact that the
Supreme Court thought it necessary to construe the act
indicates that the construction was material to the result.
For this reason the judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES,

dissenting.

The Supreme Court of the State held that the provision
of the Federal act was not applicable to this case, and I
think that the court was right. Congress did not concern
itself with the possibility that prominent persons, or others,
might steal a ride through the unauthorized action of
some employee of the railroad company. Congress was
concerned with the well known abuse which consisted in
the giving of passes, or free transportation, by railroad
companies, and it directed its legislation to that abuse.
The provision is: "No common carrier subject to the provisions of this Act shall,
, . directly or indirectly,
issue or give any interstate free ticket, free pass, or free
transportation for passengers," except as stated; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
HUGHES, J., dissenting.

240 U. S.

that "any common carrier violating this provision shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and for each offence,
on conviction shall pay .

.

. a penalty . .

.

and any

person, other than the persons excepted in this provision,
who uses any such interstate free ticket, free pass, or free
transportation shall be subject to a like penalty." Here,
it was found that the engineer had no authority to give
any free transportation to the plaintiff and I cannot but
think that in this view the defendant in error was outside
the Act. The Supreme Court of the State said: "The
common carrier did not issue any free transportation to
this plaintiff, and he was not using any such free transportation. The engineer in charge of the locomotive pulling
the passenger train, under no conceivable circumstances
has any power to issue free transportation to any person,
and we are unable to see the force of the argument along
this line.

.

.

.

It is clear to us that the engineer was not

authorized to carry plaintiff free, and it is also manifest
that the Act of Congress is not directed against acts of
the character here involved."
I know of no reason for disregarding the finding of the
state court as to want of authority in the engineer, ard
it was on this hypothesis that the court held the Federal
provision to be inapplicable. Aside from this ruling, it,
it is not suggested that any Federal question is involved.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE McKENNA
concurs in this .dissent.

