OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court,

240 U. S.

title. But these allegations are wholly inadequate undler
the hypothesis which we have assumed solely for the sake
of the argument, to sustain jurisdiction, since it is apparent on their face they allege no ground for equitable
relief independent of the mere complaint that the tax is
illegal and unconstitutional and should not be enforcedallegations which if recognized as a basis for equitable
jurisdiction would take every case where a tax was assailed because of its unconstitutionality out of the provisions of the statute and thus render it nugatory, while
it is obvious that the statute plainly forbids the enjoining
of a tax unless by some extraordinary and entirely exceptional circumstance its provisions are not applicable.
There is a contention that the provisions requiring an
appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue after
payment of the taxes and giving a right to sue in case of
his refusal to refund are wanting in due process and therefore there is jurisdiction. But we think it suffices to state
that pontention to demonstrate its entire want of merit.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

DODGE v. BRADY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 213. Argued October 14, 15, 1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Under the exceptional conditions of this case, while there may have
been ground for the District Court dismissing it for lack of jurisdiction, as there was a basis for taking jurisdiction and the decision
was clearly right on the merits, this court does not reverse, but

DODGE v. BRADY.
240 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

affirms the judgment which put an end to an absolutely useless controversy.
Brushaber v. Union Pac. R. R. Co., ante, p. 1, followed to effect that

the-Income Tax Law of 1913 is not unconstitutional in any of the
respects involved in that or this action.
THE

facts, which involve the constitutionality and ap-

plication of the Income Tax Law of 1913, are stated in

the opinion.
Mr.William D. Guthrie, with whom Mr. Fred A. Baker
was on the brief, for appellant:
The whole of the Income Tax provision of the Tariff,
subd. 2,div. A, of § 2 of the Act of October 3, 1913, is
unconstitutional, because of the invalidity of the provisions: (1) subjecting stockholders in corporations, when
computing their surtaxes to liability for the gains and
profits of the corporations which have not been divided
or distributed; (2) vesting in the Secretary of the Treasury
an arbitrary power of determining, without notice, or a
hearing, whether any corporation has accumulated a
greater undivided surplus than is reasonable for the needs
and purposes of the business; and (3) permitting corporations to accumulate and withhold from surtax taxation
such part of their gains and profits as may be reasonably
necessary for the needs and purposes of the business, and
in not according such great business privilege to individuals and partnerships.
The provisions levying a graduated surtax on the incomes of individuals in excess of. $20,000 without levying
the same on the incomes of corporations in excess of
$20,000 are unconstitutional and void.
Classifying incomes according to their sources and levying different rates'on the several classes has objectionable
features and consequences which .do not pertain to that
classification which is permissible in levying duties, im-

posts and excises.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U..S.

In support of these contentions, see Brewer Brick Co.
v. Brewer, 62 Maine, 62; Chicago &c. R. R. v. Chicago,
166 U. S. 226; Coe v. Armour Fertilizer Works, 237 U. S.
413; Cooley v. Granville, 10 Cush. 53; DeBarry v. Dunne,
162 Fed. Rep. 961; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.107;
GeorgiaR. R. v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127-138; Grierv. Tucker,
150 Fed. Rep. 658; Howell v. Bristol, 8 Bush, 493; Hooper
v. Emery, 14 Maine, 375; Lexington v. McQuillan, 9 Dana
(Ky.), 513; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655;
Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Stock Yards, .212 U. S. 132, 144;
McCoach v. Minehill Co., 228 U. S. 295; Mo. Pac. Ry. v.
Nebraska, 164 U. S.403, 417; Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S.
269; People v. Brooklyn, 4 N. Y. 420; Pollock v. Farmers'
L. & T. Co., 158 U. S. 601; Roller v. Holly, 176 U. S. 398,
409; Schwerzchild v. Rucker, 143 Fed. Rep. 656; Sears v.Cott.rell, 5 Michigan, 251; Security Trust Co. v. Lexington,
203 ,U.S. 323, 333; State v. Township, 36 N. J. L. 66;
State v. Travellers' Ins. Co., 73 Connecticut, 255; Southern
Ry. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400, 417; Stratton's Independence
v. lHowbart, 231 U: S.414; Stuart v. Palmer, 74 N. Y. 183,
188; Sutton v. Louisville, 5 Dana (Ky.), 28, 31; United
States v. Whitridge, 231 U. S.144; Weeks v. Milwaukee, 10
Wisconsin, 242; Water Co. v. Wade, 59 N. J. L. 78.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Wallace for appellee.1
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The appellants are the same persons who sued in Dodge
v. Osborn, just decided, ante, p. 118. After the dismissal
of that suit by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia for want of jurisdiction the parties, on June 10,
1914, filed their bill in the court below against the Collector
For abstract of argument in this and other cases argued simultaneously herewith,. see p. 5, ante..

DODGE v. BRADY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Internal Revenue to enjoin the collection of the surtaxes
assessed against them which were disputed in the previous
case on substantially the same grounds alleged in the
complaint in that case. The bill alleged, however, that
plaintiffs had filed with the Collector "an appeal or claim
for the remission and abatement of the surtaxes" because
of the unconstitutionality of the statute imposing them
and that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to whom
the claim had been forwarded by the Collector had such
protest under advisement. Upon the filing of the bill the
plaintiffs moved for a preliminary injunction which was
denied July 29, 1914. On the same day by leave of court a
supplemental bill was filed which alleged that since the
filing of the original bill the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue had ruled adversely upon plaintiffs' protest and
that thereupon they had paid the surtaxes to the Collector
under protest, and they prayed a recovery of the amount
paid to the Collector and for the other relief asked in the
original bill. The defendant moved to dismiss the bill
for want of jurisdiction because the suit was brought to
enjoin the collection of a tax contrary to the provisions
of Rev. Stat., § 3224, and for want of equity because the
Income Tax Law was constitutional and valid. The court
sustained the motion on the latter ground and dismissed
the bill on the merits and the case is here on direct appeal
because of the constitutional questions.
The Government insists that the court below was without jurisdiction to decide the merits and we come first to
that question. It is apparent if the original bill alone is
taken into view that the suit was brought to enjoin the
collection of a tax and the court was without jurisdiction
for the reasons stated in the previous case. And it is
argued by the Government that there was no jurisdiction
under the supplemental bill since it fails to allege that an
appeal was taken to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue after the payment of the taxes and that he refused

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

to refund them and therefore fails to allege a compliance
with the conditions imposed by §§ 3220 and 3226 of the
Revised Statutes as prerequisites to a suit to recover taxes
wrongfully collected. But broadly considering the whole
situation and taking into view the peculiar facts of the
case, the protest to the Commissioner and his exertion
of authority overr it and his adverse ruling upon the
merits of the tax, thereby passing upon every question
which he would be called upon to decide on an appeal
for a refunding of the taxes paid, we think that this case
is so exceptional in character as not to justify us in holding
that reversible error was committed by the court below in
passing upon the case upon its merits, thus putting an
end to further absolutely useless and unnecessary controversy. We say useless and unnecessary because on the
merits all the contentions urged by the appellants concerning the unconstitutionality of the law and of the surtaxes which it imposes have been considered and adversely
disposed of in Brushaber v. Union Pacific R. R., ante, p. 1.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part

sideration and decision of this case.

in the con-

