FLEITMANN v. WELSBACH CO.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

FLEITMANN, SUING ON BEHALF OF STOCKHOLDERS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STREET
LIGHTING COMPANY, v. WELSBACH STREET
LIGHTING COMPANY.
SAME v. SHAW.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
Nos. 145, 146. Argued December 17, 1915.-Decided January 24, 1916
When the penalty of triple damages is sought under § 7 of the Anti.
Trust Act the liability can only be enforced through the verdict of a
jury in a court of common law.
While under the Act of October 15, 1914, private parties can obtain an
injunction against threatened loss, that act, in terms, goes no farther.
A suit in equity by a single .stockholder of a corporation against that
and other corporations to require the latter to pay to the former
threefold damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act cannot be maintained, nor, in such a case, can there be a decree requiring the corporation of which plaintiff is a stockholder to sue the other corporations or permitting him to sue in its name and on its behalf.
211 Fed. Rep. 103, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right of a single stockholder to maintain a suit against the corporation under
§ 7 of the Sherman Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry L. Scheuerman, with whom Mr. Henry A.
Wise and Mr. Harry F. Mela were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Edward W. Hatch, with whom Mr. William F.
Sheehan was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a bill by a stoclholder of the Consolidated Street
Lighting Company, against that Company and a number

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

of other corporations and individuals, to compel the defendants other than his own company to pay to the latter
threefold damages under the Sherman Act. July 2, 1890,
c. 647, § 7; 26 Stat. 209, 210. According to the allegations the other defendants conspired to control the business of municipal lighting, &c. throughout the United
States and in pursuance of their conspiracy procured their
agent to purchase from the former owners a majority of
the stock in the plaintiff's company, aid then proceeded
to ruin it and drive it out of business'by .misconducting
its affairs. The plaintiff has demanded of his company
and its officers to institute proceedings but they have
refused. The bill was dismissed by the District Court
on motion of the appellees in the two appeals before this
court, and the decree was affirmed by the, Circuit Court
of Appeals. 211 Fed. Rep. 103. 128 C. C. A. 31.
The bill alleges in terms that it is brought to recover
threefold the damages alleged; a decree for such damages
was the relief prayed. The only specific error assigned
on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals was holding
that such a suit in equity could not be maintained by a
single stockholder; that was the only question dealt with
by the District Court and that was the ground of decision
in the Circuit Court of Appeals. It really is the only
question in the case.
Of course the claim set up is that of the corporation
alone, and if the corporation were proceeding directly
under the §tatute no one can doubt that its only remedy
would be at law. Therefore the inquiry at once arises
-why the defendants' right to a jury trial should be taken
away because the present plaintiff cannot persuade the
only party having a cause of action to sue-how the
liability which is, the principal matter can be converted
into an incident of the plaintiff's domestic difficulties with
the company that has been wronged.
No doubt there are cases in which the nature of the

FLEITMANN v. WELSBACH CO.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

right asserted for the company, or- the failure of the defendants concerned to insist upon their rights, or a different state system, has led to the whole matter being
disposed of in equity; but we agree with the courts below
that when a penalty of triple damages is sought to be
inflicted, the statute should not be read as attempting to
authorize liability to be enforced otherwise than through
the verdict of a jury in a court of common law. On the
contrary it plainly provides the latter remedy and it
provides no other. Pollard v. Bailey, 20 Wall. 520.
Even the Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, § 16, 38 Stat.
730, 737, passed since this suit was begun, does not go
farther in terms than to give an injunction to private
persons against threatened loss.
It now is suggested, evidently as an afterthought since
the decision in the District Court, that there might be a
decree directing the corporation to sue or, if it fails to do
so, permitting the plaintiff to sue in its name and on its
behalf. But the bill is not framed for that purpose, as
the court below held.
Decree affirmed.
MR.

dissent.

JUSTICE McKENNA

and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

