OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. UNITED STATES
STEEL CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM-THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. -.

Application submitted March 14, 1916.-Decided March 20,
1916.

This case having been commenced, and a large part of the testimony
taken, printed and indexed and bound before Equity Rule 75 became
operative, and the references to testimony in the opinion of the court
below-being directed to the testimony as contained in the bound
volumes, held that the case is an exception to Equity Rule 75 and
the testimony in its original form as contained in such printed volumes constitutes part of the record on appeal.
Sixty days' extension of time granted for filing in this court the record
made up conformably to these views.

ON application f9 r an order extending the time to
docket the case and file the record in this court.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Todd and The
Solicitor General for the United States.
Mr. Richard V. Lindabury and Mr. David A. Reed for
United States Steel Corporation.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICEI

WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the oourt.
The United States applied to the court below to extend
the time for filing the record from March 15, 1916, the
existing date, to July 1, to give it time to complete the
reduction of the testimony' to a narrative form conformably to Equity Rule 75. Equity Rule 75. Record on
Appeal-Reduction and Preparation'. Promulgated No-

UNITED STATES v. U. S. STEEL CORP.
240 U. S.

443

Opinion of the Court.

vember 4, 1912, 226 U. S. 629, 671. The defendant opposed the request on the ground that there was doubt.
as to the possibility of adequately reducing the testimony
and on. the further ground that it desired the testimony
brought up in original shape and because under all the
circumstances of the case it should not be governed by
Equity Rule 75. The court declined to pass uponthe
application but suggested that the parties submit to this
court the question whether Equity Rule 75 was under the
circumstances imperatively applicable, stating however
that it had found great advantage in disposing of the case
from having the original testimony before it and was of
the.opinion that a like advantage would be experienced
by this court if the original testimony, was brought up.
The application before us was then made and is resisted
on the grounds which were urged against it below.
The facts are these: The testimony was taken before
an examiner and embraces 30 volumes containing 12,151
pages. Of these, 14 volumes or about 5969 pages embrace
testimony taken before Equity Rule 75 became operative.
By agreement between the parties as the testimony was
taken it was printed and bound, and the requisite number
of copies of the volumes are on hand to serve as part of
the record in this court on the appeal. To facilitate the
court below, digests and full indexes were prepared by
counsel, and all the references to the testimony made by
-the court below in its opinion are directed to the testimony as contained in the bound volumes.
Under the facts which we have stated we are of opinion
that the case is an exception to Equity Rule 75 and should
not be controlled by it, and hence that the testimony in
its original form as contained in the volumes already
printed should constitute a part of the record on appeal,
and therefore there is no reason to grant the request for
time based upon the contrary assumption. While this
is true, however, in order that there may. be ample op-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

portunity to file the record, made up conformably to
the views which we have just stated, the time for filing
the record which was extended by this court on March 15
pending this application, will be now extended sixty
days from that date.
And it is so ordered.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
WILES, ADMINISTRATOR.

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
Nd 196.

Submitted January 26, 1916.--Decided March 20, 1916.

Where there is nothing to extenuate the negligence of the employ6, or
to confuse hia judgment, and his duty is as clear as its performnance
is easy, and he knows not only the imminent danger of the situation,
but also how it can be averted by complying with the'rules of the
employer, there is no justification for a comparison of negligences
on the part of the employer and employ6 or the apportioning of their
effect under the provision of the Employers' Liability Act. To excuse
such neglect on the part of an employ6 of an interstate carrier would
not only cast imnmeasurable liability on the carriers but remove security from those carried.
In such cases it is disputable whether the doctrine of res ipsa lQquitur
applies at all; and, in this case, held that the submission to the jury
of whether begligence of the carriers existed. as a deduction from the
fact that a draw-bar pulled out from causes not shown by the testimony, and the proportion of the carrier's negligence in causing the
death of an -employ6 wag, in view of the failure of the dmployd to
perform his duty and comply with the rules of the employer under
such circumstances, reversible error.
125 Minnesota, 348, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the valid-

