ACKERLIND v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Syllabus.

the stock of the company represented, saying that "the
total value of said company's stock, including all its
property, tangible and intangible, on the first day of
February, 1911, was $500,000." It is manifest, therefore,
when the court took the stock as evidence of the value of
the property of the company the court took it as evidence
of the value of the leases and thereby justified their assessment and taxation. This, for the reasons we have stated,
was error.
It follows from these views that the assessment against
the oil company, so far as it included the leases, whether as
separate objects of taxation or as represented or valued
by the stock of the company, is invalid.
Judgment reversed and case remandedfor further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

ACKERLIND, ADMINISTRATOR OF LIND, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 293.

Argued March 15, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

Notwithstanding the requirements of § 3744, Rev. Stat., requiring
contracts made by the Secretaries of War, of the Navy, and of the
Interior to be reduced to writing and signed by the contracting
parties, reformation of a contract so executed may be required in a
proper case as against the United States, as it may be required notwithstanding the provisions of the Statute of Frauds.
Failure of a contractor to read the contract before executing the contract, the terms of which he had previously seen is not enough to
debar him from seeking relief by having it properly reformed.
Although the Court of Claims may not have made findings in terms of
certain facts which it has plainly assumed in its decision to be true,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for United States.

240 U. S.

if they are not controverted, and they do appear in the record, it is
not necessary to send the case back for further finding.
In this case, held that a contract for delivery of coal should be reformed
by striking out a clause in the printed form which it had been
agreed should be, but by mistake of a clerk had not been, stricken.
out before execution.
When the Government guarantees only a certain depth of water at an
unloading dock, the fact that one vessel of greater draft had unloaded at it, does not amount to proof that all vessels of that draft
could do so, the Court of Claims having stated that it did not
find as a fact there was generally an available depth of over twenty
feet; and a claim for demurrage cannot be based on failure to
unload vessels of greater draft than twenty feet of water at that
dock.
The provision in the Philippine Tariff Act of March 3, 1905, e. 1408,
§ 15, 33 Stat. 928, 976, exempting from tonnage dues vessels belonging to, or employed in the service of, the -United States, does not
apply to vessels that are not under the control of the United States.
New Orleans-Belize S. S. Co. v. United States, 239 U. S. 202.
The ground of such exemption being to prevent interference with
agencies of the Government, it does not apply to an independent
carrier who has simply contracted to deliver freight to the Gov-ernment.
49 Ct. Cl. 635, reversed in part and affirmed in part.

THE facts, which, involve the power of the Court of

Claims to reform a contract with the United States and
claims for demurrage arising under a contract for delivery
of coal, are stated in the opinion.
. Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Huston Thompson for
the United States:
The contract should not be reformed, as the alleged
oral agreement was merged in the written instrument.
The reformation desired would make a different contract from the one executed, and hence is contrary to
§ 3744, Rev. Stat.

ACKERLIND v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The mistake, if any, lacked mutuality, and for this
reason the contract should not be reformed.
The Government is not chargeable with demurrage
because it guaranteed only 20 feet of water at the wharf.
The vessels employed being in the service of the appellant were not exempt from tonnage dues. Beach v.
United States, 226 U. S. 243, 260; Clark v. United States,
95 U. S. 539; Dermott v. Jones, 2 Wall. 1, 7; Insurance Co.
v. Mowry, 96 U. S. 544, 546; New Orleans S. S. Co. v.
United States, 239 U. S. 202; Opinion of the Comptroller
of the Treasury; Philippine Tariff Act, 33 Stat. 928, 976;
United States v. N. Y. and Porto Rico S. S. Co., 239 U. S.
88.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
The main point at issue in this case is a claim for the
reformation of a contract for the transportation of coal
from certain ports in the United States to Manila Bay.
It is demanded by the claimant upon the following facts.
The terms of such contracts are settled by the Bureau of
Equipment. A requisition embodying the transaction is
then sent to the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts which
prepares a formal contract in writing in accordance with
Rev. Stat., § 3744. This section makes it the duty of the
Secretaries of War, of the Navy, and of the Interior 'to
cause-and require every contract made by them severally
on behalf of the Government, or by their officers under
them appointed to make such contracts, to be reduced to
writing, and signed by the contracting parties.' In the
present case the printed specifications upon which proposals were asked contiined the clause "And further that
in the event of a cargo arriving before the preceding cargo
is discharged, twenty-four (24) hours' notice of arrival
shall be given after discharge of each cargo before lay
days commence in case of that next arriving." The con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

tractor objected to this clause upon satisfactory grounds
and it was agreed that it should be omitted. Through a
clerical inadvertence, however, the clause was left in the
requisition sent to the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts
and the contract was drawn embodying it, and signed by
the contractor on March 2, 1905, without careful reading,
the precise form having been settled as we have said.
This mistake was discovered upon the arrival of several
vessels at Cavite, on June 17, 1905, the attention of the
Bureau of -Equipment was called to it, and the Bureau
of Supplies and Accounts was requested to make the
necessary change, on June 23: That Bureau notified the
contractor that the contract was amended by the omission of the clause. The Government refuses to recognize
the amendment, the Court of Claims dismissed the claim
for reformation, 49 Ct. Cls. 635, and the claimant appealed to this court.
It hardly is denied and cannot be denied successfully
that in a proper case reformation of a contract may be
required against the United States notwithstanding the
statute that we have quoted, as it may be required notwithstanding the provisions of the Statute of Frauds.
Cramp v. United States, 239 U. S. 221, 230. It is the
contract that has been made through the agent authorized
to make it that is to be reduced to writing and if a clerk
or some other agent makes a mistake we perceive no reason why the writing should not be made to conform to
the fact. The contract is not unlawful in the preliminary
stage, or even void in a strict sense, but simply not to be
enforced against the United States. United States v.
N. Y. & Porto Rico S. S. Co., 239 U. S. 88. The contract
is made with the principal and the several steps are to
be regarded as if they all had been taken by him. Here
the United States made the contract by the Bureau of
Equipment and by its mouth requested the Bureau of
Supplies and Accounts to put it on paper -and sign -it.

ACKERLIND v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

What the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts understood is
inmaterial, it simply followed the requisition of the
Bureau of Equipment. There was a mistake made by a
clerk in not striking out a printed clause from that requisition. It is as if a principal after making the agreement
had taken a printed form and forgotten to draw his pen
through the words. The failure of the contractor to
read before signing an instrument the terms of which he
had seen in print is not enough to debar him from seeking
relief. Equitable Safety Ins. Co. v. Hearne, 20 Wall. 494.
The only ground for hesitation is the purely technical
one that the Court of Claims, acting before the decision
of Cramp v. United States, 239 U. S. 221, 232, and probably
uncertain whether to send up facts or evidence, has not
found in terms certain of the facts that we have stated.
It has found that the Acting Chief of the Bureau of
Equipment wrote an official letter stating them, and it
has assumed them to be true in the decision that it delivered. We understand that they are not controverted
if material, and therefore think it unnecessary to send
the case back for further findings. The decree of the
Court of Claims upon this part of the case will be reversed.
The next question that arises concerns the amount of
demurrage to be allowed under the contract as reformed.
Undisputed terms of the instrument were: "6. The
Government guarantees but twenty (20) feet of water at
coaling wharf, Sangley Point. 7. Cargo to be discharged
at the rate of four hundred (400) tons per day for such
part of cargo as may be necessary to discharge in the bay
to enable a vessel of 'deep draft to go to the wharf, and six
hundred (600) tons per day at wharf, Sundays and legal
holidays excepted in each instance, or the Government
pays demurrage at the rate of eight (8) cents per ton per
day on the net registered tonnage of the vessel for any
detention caused by the Government (through fault of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

its own) not discharging at the above-named rates, it
being understood that twenty-four (24) hours' notice of
arrival of each cargo under this charter shall be given the
commandant before lay days' commence."
(Then followed the clause stricken out by reformation.) "13.
While an average daily discharge of four hundred (400)
tons in the stream and six hundred (600) tons at the
wharf is guaranteed, the commandant will be instructed to
discharge the cargo as expeditiously as practicable with a
view of exceeding these rates without working overtime."
It is found that one vessel went to the wharf drawing
twenty-two feet and six inches, and it is argued that if
one could another could, and that under paragraph 13
just quoted, the other vessels should have been docked
at that draft and thus have been enabled to deliver 200
tons more a day-that being the difference between wharf
and stream. If the argument is correct it would give the
claimant $2,217.44 demurrage under the contract as reformed.. But as to this it is enough to say that the Court
of Claims stated that it did not find the fact of generally
available depth of over twenty feet, and therefore it
stands unproved in this court.
The only other point argued is that the vessels concerned
should not have been required to pay tonnage dues because the Philippine Tariff Act of March 3, 1905, c. 1408,
§ 15, 33 Stat. 928, 976, exempts from them "a vessel belonging to or employed in the service of the Government of
the United States." But it is a sufficient answer that the
words do not mean every vessel that carries a ton or a
cargo of coal for the Government but only one that is
under the control of the United States as explained in
New Orleans-Belize S. S. Co. v. United States, 239 U. S.
202, 206. The ground of the exemption is to prevent
interference with Governmentagencies. But an independent carrier, such as the contractor was in this case, is not
such an agency, and is not employed in the-service of the

FARNHAM v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Government within the meaning of the law. See Baltimore Shipbuilding Co. v. Baltimore, 195 U. S. 375, 382.
Upon the last two points the judgment of the Court of
Claims is affirmed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no

part in the consider-

ation and decision of.this case.

FARNHAM v. UNITED STATES.APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 107.

Argued March 2, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.

Where the officers of the United States charged with the matter have
refused the offer of a patentee for the use of his invention, and have
declined to use it, and, proceeding independently, make and use articles designed by themselves, which the patentee claims embody his
invention, there is no implied contract on the part of the Government to pay for the use of the invention; in the absence of such
contract the Court of Claims could not take cognizance of the claim
of an inventor for infringement of his patent prior to the passage of
the act of June 25, 1910.
While the petitions in this case must be dismissed because the claims
are based on an implied contract which has not been proved, the
judgment of dismissal should be without prejudice to claimant's
right to present his claim for infringement of his patent under the
Act of June 25, 1910, c. 423, 36 Stat. 851.
49 Ct. Cl. 19, affirmed.

facts, which involve a claim against the United
States for infringement of patent rights in connection
with postage stamp-holders, are stated in the opinion.
THE

