CARDONA v. QUINONES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

CARDONA v. QUINONES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 185. Submitted January 18, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Where the appeal is prayed within the statutory time, the mere date
of its allowance by the court is not controlling. United States v.
Vigil, 10 Wall. 423.
Where the record in an appeal from the Supreme Court of Porto Rico
contains a statement of fact preparedby the court below, and there
is an entire absence of evidence, except as contained in such statement and the opinion, this court can only dispose of the legal propositions in the light of the facts as so shown and elucidated.
It is the settled doctrine of the court not to disturb but, in the absence
of clear error, to uphold, the action of the court below as to matters
'concerning purely local law.
Both courts below having, in an action to recover real estate in Porto
Rico, upheld the ten year prescription under the code, and also
having found that appellant was not a third person entitled as such
to the benefits of the recording provisions of the Mortgage Law,
this court affirms the judgment.
20 Porto Rico, 421, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction and practice

of this court in appeals from judgments of the Supreme
Court of Porto Rico and the validity of a judgment of
that court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Jose R. F. Savage for appellant.
Mr. FrancisH. Dexter for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Both courts below rejected the claim of title made by
the appellant to a tract of land of 40 cuerdas. As the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

appeal was prayed within the statutory time, the mere
date of its allowance by. the court is not controlling
and the motion to dismiss which proceeds upon a contrary assumption is therefore without foundation and
is overruled. United States v. Vigil, 10 Wall. 423,
427.
Obviously upon the theory that our power to review
was controlled by the rule obtaining as to territorial
courts of the United States this record, as was the case
in Elzaburu v. Chavez, 239 U. S. 283, contains a statement
of facts prepared by the lower court for the purposes of
this appeal. As there is an entire absence from the record
of the oral and documentary evidence upon which the
court below acted except so far as the same may be shown
by the opinion of the court or may be contained in the
statement of facts, it follows that the record does not
enable us to review the facts and we proceed to dispose
of the legal propositions urged for reversal in the light of
the facts as stated and as elucidated in the opinion of
the court. Abbreviating and somewhat changing the
order in which they are stated below, we recapitulate the
essential facts as follows:
Two brothers, Jos6 Salvador Suris and Ram6n Maria
Suris, having acquired by various acts of purchase seventy
cuerdas of land in the ward of Sabana Eneas of San Germhn, in November, 1870, executed a mortgage on 40
cuerdas of the land thus acquired, being the 40 cuerdas
here in controversy, in faver of the Charity Hospital at
San GermAn. In 1879 the Charity Hospital commenced
proceedings to foreclose this mortgage, but such proceedings were stayed until 1882 in consequence of an appeal
taken to the Territorial Audiencia. After the cessation
of the stay, in that year an attachment against 100 cuerdas
of land belonging to the two brothers was levied and the
property thus attached was placed (sequestered) in the
hands of one Pablo Maria Stefani. On the same day,

CARDONA v. QUINONES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

February 9, 1882, by a contract under private signature
the two Suris brothers sold to Stefani the 40 cuerdas here
in controversy which had been mortgaged to the hospital,
the purchaser obligating himself to pay the hospital debt
and, if a surplus remained, to pay certain attorney's fees
which had been incurred. The agreement also contained
a conveyance to Stefani of another and distinct tract of
land for another and distinct price. This agreement
under private signature was never inscribed upon the
public records. A few days after it was made and presumably before the contract of sale had been carried out,
the Suris brothers executed before a notary an act of
consolidation of the various properties which they had
acquired Which they described as "Perseguida" and this
act was put upon the public records. Under the private
agreement Stefani the purchaser went into possession
and discharged the obligations of the private contract of.
sale.
In 1888 a commercial firm, Schulze & Company, as
creditors of the Succession of Stefdni, who had in the
meanwhile died, brought suit against his Succession to
enforce its debt, and for the purpose of getting upon the
records the possessory title of Stefani to enable an attachment to be levied, instituted and carried out the necessary
proceedings. When the order for record was obtained the
property was levied upon and sold at a judicial sale and
was bought in by Schulze & Company. After thus becoming the purchasers of the land in controversy, the
firm in 1899 execilted before a notary and put of record a
deed consolidating into a plantation called Imisa various
tracts of land containing 192.30 cuerdas, the deed reciting
that one of the parcels of land included in the plantation
*was a tract of 40 cuerdas called "Hospital" or "Perseguida." Ram6n Maria Suris, one of the original vendors,
died in the meanwhile, and in 1900 his heirs put upon
record a declaratory deed asserting their undivided owner-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

ship as the successors of their father to a tract of 40 cuerdas
known as Perseguida.
The Bank of Porto Rico as the holder of a mortgage
put upon the fiisa plantation by Schulze & Company,
foreclosed the same and bought in the property in August,
1905, and in November of the following year (1906) the
bank sold the plantation thus acquired to Francisco P.
Quifiones, the defendank, his title as purchaser having
been inscribed upon the public records.,
In 1907 Jos6 Salvador Suris, one of the original vendors
under the act of private sale, as well as the widow and
heirs of his deceased brother, Ram6n Maria Suris, the
other original vendor, each executed, deeds of sale of an
undivided half interest in the property culled "Perseguida"
to Juan Suris Cardona, a son of Jos6, and these acts of
sale were put upon the public registry. A few days later
the parties vendor to the acts above stated executed another notarial act in which they declared that the property
had not been in their possession, but in the possession of
the defendant Quifiones and the Bank of Porto Rico and
therefore they had not collected revenues, and they ceded
to the purchaser the right to collect such revenues. Under
the ownership alleged to result from these acts this suit
was commenced by Cardona to recover the property.
The findings in express terms establish that "From
1882 the property sued for ceased to belong to the brothers
Jos Salvador and Ram6n Maria Suris by reason of the
sale set out in the private contract, and since then it has
been in the quiet, peaceful and public possession, as
owners, in good faith and by title of purchase of Stefani,
later of Schluze & Company, then of the Banco de Puerto
Rico, and finally of Quifiones, residents of Porto Rico."
As to the purchase by Cardona, the plaintiff, from his
father and the representatives of his deceased uncle,
the findings expressly state: "When the plaintiff purchased the property sought to be recovered he knew the

CARDONA v. QUINONES.
240 U. S.

.87

Opinion of the Court.

history of it as here related and knew that his father and
cousins had not possessed the same since the year 1882."
And the conclusion reached as to the ultimate facts on
this subject is thus expressed in the opinion of the court
below: "In view of the manner in which the facts have
occurred, we have no doubt whatever that the deeds of
sale of the property in question executed in favor' of
Juan Suris Cardona have had no other purpose than that
he should institute this suit to avail himself of and assert
his rights as a third party and thus save. his father and
the heirs of his uncle from the consequences of the private
document executed in favor of Stefani; and we are likewise convinced that the plaintiff knew the history of the
said property before he made his purchase, and that his
father and his cousins had not possessed the same since
1882, as stated in the complaint."
Applying the law to the facts stated, the court concluded: (a) "Under such conditions the plaintiff cannot
claim the benefits which the law grants to third parties,
because nobody can be a third party who, although he
had not intervened in the first contract of sale, purchased,
however, knowing that his vendors were not the owners
and had' no possession of the property sold. The same
doctrine has already been established by this court in the
case of Voight v. Rivas (1 Decisiones de Puerto Rico, 60),
decided May 10, 1900.". (b) From the possession which,
as we have seen, the court found to have existed from 1882
in Stefani and his successors, Schulze & Company, the
Bank of Porto Rico and Quifiones, and the various titles
which were put upon the record in the transfers as made,
especially the inclusion of the property in the plantation
"Imisa," it was held that between the parties there was
a sufficient basis laid for a just title and possession as
owner in good faith adequate to sustain a prescription of
ten years which was upheld.
. The contentions for reversal are numerous ad are

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

greatly multiplied by their reiteration in somewhat
changed form of statement under the very many propositions and subdivisions of propositions embraced in the
elaborate printed argument, but we dispose of them as
follows:
First. Giving effect to the settled doctrine by which
we do not disturb, but on the contrary, uphold,'the action
of the court below as to matters concerning purely local
law except upon conviction on our part of clear error
committed (Nadal v. May, 233 U. S. 447, 454; Villanueva
v. Villanueva, 239 U. S. 293, 299), we at onee dismiss
from view the various contentions concerning the form
of the pleadings, the question whether a default should
not have been allowed as to the issues: presented by certain
amendments of the pleadings, the admissibility as between
the parties or their successors or assigns of the act under
private signature either because of the asserted ambiguity
of its terms or the inadequacy of the number of witnesses
to its execution, and many other subjects of a kindred
nature too numerous to be recapitulated.
Second. We also at once 'put out of view the various
contentions iterated and reiterated under every proposition which, while apparently accepting the findings, virtually dispute them, such as the contentions, that the
private instrument 'did not amount to a sale to Stefani
because certain alleged bankruptcy proceedings referred
to in the opinion of the court excluded the right of the
Suris brothers at that time to sell the property, that no
possession followed in Stefani from the making of the
private sale because that instrument was one not importing possession in and of itself without proof of manual
tradition, and also numerous other contentions of a kindred character concerning the judicial proceedings taken
by Schulze & Company to acquire title and the deed of
consolidation by them recorded which we further do not
stop to specifically point out.

CARDONA v. QUINONES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

With these things disposed of; the remaining contentions
come to this: That the decision of the court below was
plainly tviolative of the local law known as the mortgage
law and the general provisions of the code concerning the
necessity of the public record of title to real estate and
the protection afforded by the same, and that moreover
an obvious disregard of the mortgage law and the provisions of the code resulted from giving to the sale under
private signature and the proceedings and subsequent
transmiutations of title. based upon it the character of a
just title sufficient on its face to be the basis of the ten
years' prescription under the code which the court below
upheld. But when stripped of the confusion ii the mode
in which they are stated and reduced to their ultimate
significance, all the contentions on these subjects are exclusively based upon the assumption that the plaintiff
below was entitled to the protection afforded by the mortgage law to third persons and to the assumed inadequacy
of the title relied upon by the defendant to sustain the
ten years' prescription as against a third person. The
propositions therefore in their essence when correctly understood but' ignore or dispute the findings of the court
below upon which its conclusion was expressly based that
the plaintiff was not a third person either because he was
merely a person interposed as a means of enabling him,
apparently to. assert in his own name for the benefit of
his authors in title, rights which they were incapable themselves of asserting, indeed could not without fraud on
their part enjoy, or because if not in a strict sense a person
interposed, he 'was nevertheless not a third person within
the intendment of the local law because he acquired with
full knowledge of the want of title in his vendors and of
the absence of possession on their part and also with
knowledge not only of an outstanding title, but of possession as owner which was then and had been enjoyed
by the defendant and his predecessors in right. Thus to

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

bring the propositions to the true basis upon which they
rest serves at once without more to establish their absolute
want of foundation and to demonstrate the correctness
of the judgment below and the duty to affirm it.

Affirmd.

UNITED STATES v. ANDREWS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 193.

Argued January 21, 24, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.

Under Rev. Stat., ยง 1265, an officer of the army is entitled to half pay
while on leave granted by proper authority.
No power has been conferred on the President to grant an army officer
leave without pay, or to affix to an order granting leave a condition
to that effect.
Whatever power the President may have to dismiss civil officers, it does
not apply to officers of the Army and Navy, who, under Rev. Stat.,
ยง 1229, shall not in time of peace be dismissed except upon and in
pursuance of the sentence of a court-martial or in commutation
thereof.
An officer of the army granted, and accepting, leave without pay is
not estopped from demanding the half pay allowed by statute, even
though he did not protest at the affixing of such a condition to the
order granting the leave. Glavey v. United States, 182 U. S. 595.
Accepting leave with the condition affixed that it be without pay
does not amount to absence without leave for which pay cannot be
allowed under the statute.
Public policy prohibits any attempt by unauthorized agreement with
an officer -of the United States, under guise of a condition or otherwise,to deprive him of the right to pay given by statute.
49 Ct. Cl. 707, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of statutes
regulating pay of officers of the Army of the United States
while on leave, are stated in the opinion.

