UNITED STATES v. UNION MFG. COMPANY.
240 U. S.

605

Syllabus.

on the affirmative exercise of a discretion conferred upon
the executors and trustees.
This having been authoritatively decided to be the true
effect and meaning of the will, we are of opinion that the
interests to which the residuary legatees succeeded were
contingent, and not vested prior to July 1, 1902, within
the meaning of the refunding act as construed in previous
decisions of this court upon the subject (Vanderbilt v.
Eidman, 196 U. S. 480, 500; United States v. Jones, 236
U. S. 106, 111; McCoach v. Pratt, 236 U. S. 562), except
with respect to such amounts as were actually paid out
of the trust fund by the trustees prior to that date, in the
exercise of their discretion; the proper tax upon which,
according to the findings, would have been $745.12.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause remanded
with direction to enter judgment in favor of appellants
for the tax collected in excess of that amount upon the
interests of the residuary legatees.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

to(" no part in the consider-

ation or decision of this case.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. UNION MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 628. Argued February 28, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.
The offense of false billing and representations specified in the third
paragraph of § 10 of the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended
June 18, 1910, o. 309, 36 Stat. 549, applies to consignees as well

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

as to consignors of interstate shipments; and where, as in this case,

false representations are made by the consignee in liquidation of the
amount payable for freight at destination, the offense is wholly or in
part committed at that place and the District Court of that district
has jurisdiction of an indictment charging the offense to have been
therein committed by the consignee.
The offense under the Act of June 18, 1910, is not analogous to that
of obtaining money under false pretenses, but may be committed
where the interstate transportation has already been completed
and the amount due therefor remains to be adjusted, and with the
same effect as though the false representations had preceded the
delivery of the goods to the carrier for interstate shipment.
THE

facts, which involve the construction of paragraph

three of §10 of the Act to Regulate Commerce as amended
June 18, 1910, and the jurisdiction of the District Court
of offenses thereunder, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Todd for the

United States.
Mr. William G. Brantley for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error under the Criminal Appeals Act
of March 2, 1907 (ch. 2564; .34 Stat. 1246), to review
a judgment of the District Court for the Southern District of Florida sustaining a demurrer to an indictment
for fraudulently misrepresenting the weights of certain
shipments of lumber, in violation of the third paragraph
of § 10 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended
June 18, 1910 (ch. 309; 36 Stat. 539, 549)..' The demurrer
1 "Any person, corporation, or company, or any agent or officer
thereof, who shall deliver property for transportation to any common
carrier subject to the provisions of this Act, or for whom, as consignor
or consignee, any such carrier shall transport property, who shall
knowingly and willfully, directly or indirectly, himsel or by employee,

agent, officer, or otherwise, by false billing, false classification, false

UNITED STATES v. UNION MFG. COMPANY.
240 U. S.

607

Opinion of the Court.

was sustained upon the ground that the statute, as con-

strued by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Davis v. United States, 104 Fed. Rep. 136, requires
the prosecution to take place in the District where the
goods are billed by the shipper and the delivery for transportation takes place, which in this instance was not in
the Southern District of Florida, but in Georgia.
The indictment contains ten counts, charging as many
different offenses.

They are alike in form, and a sum-

mary of the first will suffice. It recites that the South
Georgia Railway- Company was a common carrier by rail
engaged in the interstate transportation of yellow pine
lumber for hire from Baden, in the State of Georgia, to
Greenville, in the Southern District of Florida, and had
filed and published schedules and tariffs showing the rate
and charge for transportation of such lumber under six
inches in thickness in carload lots between those points

to be $7 for each carload lot of the weight of 24,000
pounds, excess in proportion; that the schedules and
tariffs further provided that when the actual weight of a
shipment was not ascertained at point of shipment or at

destination or in transit, the freight charges should be
based upon an estimated weight of 5,000 pounds for each
1,000 feet; that the Union Manufacturing Company was
and is a corporation engaged in shipping said property
from Baden to Greenville, and J. T. Prince was its agent,
weighing, false representation of the cantents of the package or the
substance of the property, false report of weight, false statement, or
by any other device or means, whether with or without the consent or
connivance of the carrier, its agent, or officer, obtain or attempt to
obtain transportation for such property at less than the regular rates
then established and in force on the line of transportation; .
shall be deemed guilty of fraud, which is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction thereof in any court of the
United States of competent jurisdiction within the district in which
such offense was wholly or in part committed, be subject for each offense to a fine," etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

having general charge and control of the shipments and
the payment of freight charges therefor;. that on a date
specified, and while said schedules and tariffs were in
effect, said Railway Company transported from Baden
to Greenville for the Manufacturing Company a specified
carload of yellow pine lumber under six inches in thickness, and delivered it at Greenville to the Manufacturing
Company; that the actual weight of said carload lot was
not ascertained at Baden, or at Greenville, or in transit;
that the Manufacturing Company thereafter unloaded
the lumber from the car and ascertained the number of
feet thereof; and that the said Company, and Prince
acting as its agent, well knowing the number of feet to
be 9,074, then and there falsely and fraudulently represented to the Railway Company that the number of feet
was 7,200, in consequence of which the Railway Company
charged and the Union Lumber Company paid for the
transportation of said lumber less than the lawful charge
provided in the schedules and tariffs and at a less rate
than the lawfully established rate.
In our opinion, the court below misapplied the decision
in Davis v. United States, 104 Fed. Rep. 136. In that
case, which arose under the Act as it stood before the
amendment of 1910 (March 2,1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 855;
1 Supp. Rev. Stat. 687), the circumstances were very
different from those now presented. The acts charged
were misrepresentations by false billing and classification
of certain property delivered by defendants to the railway company at Cincinnati, Ohio, for transportation
thence to Dallas, Texas. The contract of carriage was
made at Cincinnati, where defendants resided and carried
on business, and the bill of exceptions showed that everything connected with the shipment of the goods except
the carriage and delivery took place in Cincinnati. The
court said (p. 139): "We think that false billing or other
misrepresentation of the goods as stated in the Act, which

UNITED STATES v. UNION MFG. COMPANY.
240 U. S.

609

Opinion of the Court.

results in their being received by the carrier under a contract of carriage thus fraudulently obtained, is the obtaining of transportation within the meaning of the statute. Then the fraudulent conduct of .the shipper has
borne its fruit, and every act and intent which constitutes
the offense is complete." It was accordingly held that
the offense was indictable in the Southern District of
Ohio, and not in the Northern-District of Texas, within
which was the destination of the goods. We are not called
upon to either concede or question the propriety of this
decision upon the facts that were there presented. General expressions contained in the opinion are of course to
be interpreted in the light of those facts. Another case
of the same kind is In re Belknap, 96 Fed. Rep. 614. These
cases are not in point with the present. In each of them
the fraud was that of the consignor. Here it is the consignee and its agent against whom fraud is charged.
(The fact that the consignee was also the consignor is of
no significance, since the fraud alleged was in what it
did as consignee.) There the .fraud inhered in the making
of the contract of carriage; here it had to do with the
liquidation of the amount payable for freight at destination.
The Act, by its very terms, applies to consignees as
well as to consignors. But as it applies only to interstate
transportation, the consignee is normally a resident of a
different State, and therefore of a different District, from
that where the goods are billed by the shipper and the
delivery for transportation takes place. To say, therefore, that the Act contemplates an indictment only in
the District where the goods are billed by the shipper is
in effect to say that in most cases the consignee either
may not be indicted at all or else must be indicted in a
District of which he is not a resident, and which in many
instances he may never have visited. We hold that the
offenses charged in this indictment were "wholly or "i)

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

part committed" in the Southern District of Florida.
See United States v. Freeman, 239 U. S. 117.
It is insisted in behalf of defendants in error that since
the indictment shows that the transportation had been
completed and the lumber delivered to the consignee before the alleged fraudulent representations were made,
it cannot be said that the fraud charged amounted to
either obtaining or attempting to obtain transportation
for the property at less than the established rates. If the
statute on which the indictment is based were analogous
to the familiar acts rendering criminal the obtaining of
money or other property by false pretenses, the argument
would be cogent. Under such statutes, it is commonly
if not universally held to be essential to criminality that
the false pretense shall precede the obtaining of the property. People v. Haynes, 14 Wend. 547, 563, 564; reversing
11 Wend. 557; State v. Church, 43 Connecticut, 471, 479;
State v. Moore, 111 N. Car. 667, 674; State v. Willard, 109
Missouri, 242, 247; Watson v. People, 27 Ill. App. 493, 496.
The statutory provision with which we are dealing
has a very different purpose. It is not designed especially
to protect the property rights of the carrier, for the offense is made equally punishable whether committed
with or without the consent or connivance of the carrier.
It originated in the 1889 amendment to the Act to Regulate Commerce (March 2, 1889, c.382; 25 Stat. 855, 858;
1 Supp. Rev. Stat. 684, 687), and is but one of many provisions enacted by Congress with the object of preventing discriminations and favoritism as between shippers
by requiring tile publication of tariffs and prohibiting
any departure from them. The prohibitions of the original .ct of February 4, 1887 (c. 104, §§ 2, 3, 6, 10; 24
Stat. 379; 1 Supp. Rev. Stat. 529), were addressed to the
carrier alone. The 1889 amendment brought shipper and
consignee within the scope of the law, both by enacting
that false billing, etc., should be punishable criminally,

UNITED STATES v. UNION MFG. COMPANY.
240 U. S.

611

Opinion of the Court.

and by providing similar punishment for inducing discriminations by the payment of money or other thing
of value, solicitation, or otherwise. The June 28, 1910,
amendment (c. 309, § 10; 36 Stat. 539, 549), extended
the range of the prohibition to certain other fraudulent
practices by consignors and consignees. committed for
like purposes.
In denouncing as criminal "ftlse billing, false classification, false weighing, false representation of the contents
of the package or the substance of the property, false
report of weight, false statement, or other device or
means" employed in order to "obtain or attempt to obtain transportation for such property at less than the
regular rates then established," the lawmaker regarded
not merely the physical transportation of the property,
but the entire transaction through which consignor or
consignee might seek to evade the policy of the Act to
subject all interstate shipments to uniform rates of charge
prescribed in published tariffs. In a case where for- any
reason. the payment of the freight is not made prior to
the delivery of the goods to the consignee but remains
to be afterwards adjusted, the effort to obtain an advantage not permitted by the schedules"may still be, exerted
through fraudulent representations influencing the adjustment of the freight, with precisely the same effect as if the
representations had preceded delivery of the goods.. When
this is accomplished, there is a fraudulent obtaining of
transportation at less than the established rate, within the
meaning of the prohibition. Thus it needs only that we
interpret the statute according to the plain meaning of the
terms employed, in the light of subject-matter and context,
in order to conclude, as we do, that the acts set forth in
this indictment are punishable criminally under the Act.
The judgment of the District Court will be reversed, and
the cause remandedfor further proceedingsin conformity
with this opinion.

