OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

240 U. S.

ARMOUR & COMPANY v. STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA,
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.
No. 258. Argued March 3, 6, 1916.-Decided April 3, 19116.
The statute of North Dakota requiring lard when not sold in bulk
to be put up in pails or other containers holding a specified number
of pounds net weight or even multiples thereof and labled as specified is not unconstitutional as denying equal protection of the law
or as depriving the sellers of their property without due process of
law; nor is it,.as to packages sent into the State from other States
and afterwards sold to consumers by retail, unconstitutional as an
interference with, -orburden on, interstate commerce.
The net weight lard statute of North Dakota is directed to the manner
of selling lard at retail and is not repugnant to the Food and Drugs
Act-of June 30, 1906, c. 3915, 34 Stat. 768, which is directed against
adulteration and misbranding of articles of food transported in
interstate commerce.
27 N. Dak. 177, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
commerce, due process and equal protection provisions of
the Federal Constitution and the Fourteenth Amendment
thereto of the full weight provisions of the statute of North
Dakota, relative to the sale of lard in containers and their
validity under the Food and Drugs Act, are stated in the
opinion.
THE

Mr. N. C. Young, with whom Mr. Alfred R. Urion,
Mr. Abram S. Stratton and Mr. J. S. Watson were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Andrew Miller, with whom Mr. Henry J. Linde, Attorney General of the State of North Dakota, Mr. Francis
J. Murphy, Mr. H. R. Bitzing, Mr. Alfred Zuger and Mr.
B. F. Tillotson were on the brief, for defendant in error.

ARMOUR & CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
A statute of the State requires (ยง 1) that "every article
of food or beverage as defined in the statutes of this State
shall be sold by weight, measure or numerical count and
as now generally recognized by trade custom, and shall be
labeled in accordance with the provisions of the food and
beverage laws of.this State.
"Section 2 (Weight of Lard). Every lot of lard compound or of lard substitute, unless sold in bulk, shall be
put up in pails or other containers holding one (1), three
(3), or five (5), pounds net weight, or some whole multiple
of these numbers, and not any fractions thereof. If the
container be found deficient in weight additional lard,
compound, or substitute, shall be furnished to the purchaser to make up the legal weight. The face label shall
show the true name and grade of the product, the true net
weight together with the true name and address of the
producer or jobber. If other than leaf lard is used then
the label shall show the kind, as 'Back Lard,' or 'Intestinal Lard.' Every lard substitute or lard compound
shall also show, in a manner to be prescribed by the food
commissioner, the ingredients of which it is composed, and
each and every article shall be in conformity with, and
further labeled in accordance with the requirements under
the food laws of this State."
Violations of the act are made misdemeanors with a
minimum and a maximum fine increased for subsequent
offenses.
In pursuance of the statute the state's attorney for the
County of Cass filed an information against plaintiff in
error for unlawfully offering for sale and selling to one
E. F. Ladd a quantity of lard not in bulk which was put
up by the company and sold and delivered to Ladd in a
pail which held more than two pounds and less than three

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

pounds net weight of lard, to-wit, two pounds and six
ounces, which pail or container did not have or display on
the face label thereof the true net weight of the lard in
even pounds or whole multiples thereof but expressed the
weight of the lard in pounds and ounces.
A demurrer to the information was overruled and the
Armour Company pleaded not guilty. A stipulation was
entered into waiving a jury trial and that the issues be
tried by the court.
The company was found guilty and adjudged to pay a
fine of $100. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State and this writ of error was then allowed
by its Chief Justice.
The assignments of error attack the validity of the
statute, specifying as grounds of the attack that the statute offends the due process and equal protection clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States and also the commerce clause of the Constitution.
Armour & Company is a New Jersey corporation. It is a
packer of certain pork products and has packing plants
where it produces lard as an incident to its business in
Illinois, Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska. It has no plant
in North Dakota but has a branch office establishment in
the City of Fargo in that State, to which its goods are
shipped in car load lots to be distributed therefrom. The
branch at Fargo is under the charge of a local manager.
In October, 1911, the State Food Commissioner went
to the company's establishment at Fargo and asked to
purchase three pounds of lard. He was- sold a pail containing two pounds and six ounces. It was upon this sale
as a violation of the statute that the information was
filed and for which the Armour Company was convicted
and sentenced.
The Supreme Court considered the statute as but a
development of other laws passed in the exercise of the

ARMOUR & CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

police power of the State to secure to its inhabitants pure
food and honest weights, questions which the court
thought were "inseparably allied and any argument
advanced upon one applies equally to the other." And
the court said as the law was drafted by the Pure Food
Commission, it might be reasonably assumed, "after
twelve years of observation and study" and, further, that
"the expert who drafted the law, the legislature who
passed it and the Governor who approved it, all thought
necessity existed for the measure. If we did not agree
with all those, we might well hesitate to say that there was
absolutely no doubt upon the question, but in fact a
majority of this court believes the law not only reasonable,
but necessary, and this belief is founded on the evidence
in this case and upon facts of which this court can take
judicial cognizance."
The court, by these remarks, expressed the test of a
judicial review of legislation enacted in the exercise of the
police power, and in view of very recent decisions it is
hardly necessary to enlarge upon it. We said but a few
days ago that if a belief of evils is not arbitrary we cannot
measure their extent against the estimate of the legislature, and there is no impeachment of such estimate in
differences of opinion, however strongly sustained. And
by evils, it was said, there was not necessarily meant some
definite injury but obstacles to a greater public welfare.
Nor do the courts have to be sure of the precise reasons for
the legislation or certainly know them or be convinced of
the wisdom or adequacy of .the laws. Rast v. Van Deman
& Lewis, ante, p. 342; Tanner v. Little, ante, p. 369. It
only remains to apply to the present case the principles so
announced.
Lard is a very useful product and its many purposes are
set forth in the testimony. It was originally sold in the
State only in tierces and tubs, that is, in bulk. A demand
arose for smaller and more convenient packages and the

. 514

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Armour Company and other packers responded to that
demand and put their lard in three, five and ten pound
pails, gross weight, the net weight of lard at first having
no indication but subsequently, in obedience to the state
laws, being indicated by labels, and in the present case by
a small label at two pounds and six ounces. The practice
of selling by gross weight is a continuation of the practice
of selling by bulk.
The Armour Company asserts an inviolable right in the
practice as convenient and useful and free from deception.
But experience does not justify such unqualified praise.
The practice has its advantages, no doubt, but it is the
observation of the officers of the State that it conceals
.from buyers their exact purchases-there is confusion as
to what the price paid compensates, whether lard or tin
container.
The Armour Company contests this conclusion and
contends that the label upon the package, put on in observance of a law of the State passed in 1907,1 shows the
net weight of the lard, and protects the consumer from
imposition while it preserves to the company a useful
method of packing and a necessary freedom of business
with the public. To this we reply the law of 1907 was
deemed necessary to protect the purchaser against the
concealment in the method of the packers, the amount of
lard not being indicated. Supposedly the requirement
was not adequate, and the law of 1911 was passed. However, with a comparison of the laws we have nothing to
1 The law of 1907, reproducing the provision of a law passed in 1905,

provided as follows:
"Ninth. If every package, bottle or container does not bear the
true net weight, the name of the real manufacturer or jobbers, and the
true grade or class of the product, the same to be expressed on the face
of the principal label in clear and distinct English words in black type
on a white background, said type to be in size uniform with that used
to name the brand or producer. . ."

ARMOUR & CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

do, nor need we even consider, as the Supreme Court
considered, with some reluctance, that the label used by
the company was a scant compliance with the law of
1907 if not an evasion of it. We need only deal with the
law under review and the justification for its adoption.
Evils attended the method of the company which the
Food Commission of the State thought should be redressed
and which the legislature reasonably believed were definite
and not fanciful and in this belief passed the law. And
the belief being of that character removes the law, as we
have already said, from judicial condemnation; and besides there is nothing in the testimony inconsistent with it.
The testimony of the company was directed at great
length to show the advantages of selling in containers
over selling in bulk, and the expense to the company of
the former and the additional expense which the law
would require. And meeting the objection that the
company fixed the price of the lard by the gross weight
of the package, in other words, as though there were
three pounds instead of two pounds six ounces, it was
replied that by so doing there was no profit to the company and only a reimbursement of the cost of the tin
container and extra cost of putting up the lard in that
style of package.
But this does not justify the practice of the company
nor establish the invalidity of the law of the State. The
advantages are in a sense made a snare and the testimony
means no more than that the packer has built up a trade
on a system of gross weight which enables it to practice a
kind of deception bn the purchaser that he is getting three
pounds of lard when he is only getting two pounds six
ounces, and enables the packer to pay for the container.
The evil of the transaction is not in the latter but in the
former, that is, in the deception. The correction of the
statute is that the lard and the container shall be unequivocally distinguished and the purchaser have the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

direct assurance of the quantity of lard he is receiving,
knowledge of its price and the cost of the container to
him, a means of estimating his purchase free from disguises or the necessity of an arithmetical estimate of
what he is getting or paying for upon the market fluctuations of lard and tin. This may involve a change. of
packing by the company and the cost of that change,
but this is a sacrifice the law can require to protect from
the deception of the old method. The law is allied in
principle, as the Supreme Court of the State observed,
to regulations in the interest of honest weights and measures. It involves no giving up of what the company has
a right to retain and the cost of the container as well after
change as now can be cast upon the purchaser, he, however, being able to determine if it is worth the price he
has to pay for it.
There are advantages undoubtedly in packing lard in
pails, advantages to the packer and the consumer, but
the advantages are not on account of selling by gross
instead of by net weight. In other words, all of the advantages will be retained by a compliance with the provisions of the law, that is, by putting up the lard in one,
three or five pound packages, net weight, or some multiple of those numbers. It is in the testimony that the
packing company furnishes lard in net-weight pails to
Park & Tilford, of New York City, that is, in weights of
three, five and ten pounds, and has been doing so- for a
few years.
The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is invoked by the Armour Company and the specification is that the law under review "arbitrarily and
without reasonable ground therefor singles out lard from
all food products " which are sold in packages, such as
"prints of butter, packages of coffee, boxes of crackers,
and the endless number of other products sold in package
form are not included, and no natural and reasonable

ARMOUR & CO. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ground for excluding them and in singling out lard has
been suggested."'
The range of discretion thAt a State possesses in classifying objects of legislation we may be excused from expressing, in view of very recent decisions. The power may be
determined by degrees of evil or exercised in cases where
detriment is specially experienced. Carroll v. Greenwich
Ins. Co., 199 U. S. 401, 411; Central Lumber Co. v. South
Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 161. The law of North Dakota does
not exceed this power.
It is objected that the law violates the commerce clause
of the Constitution. This is certainly not true of the
sale to Ladd. It was distinctly by retail and in the package of retail, not in the package of importation. And it
is to such retail sales the statute is directed. It does not
attempt to regulate the transportation to the State.
Nor do we think that the law is repugnant to the Pure
Food and Drugs Act of June 30, 1906 (c. 3915, 34 Stat.
768, 780). That act is directed against the adulteration
and misbranding of articles of food transported in interstate commerce. The state statute has no such purpose;
it is directed to the manner of selling at retail, which is
in no way repugnant to the Federil law (Rast v. Van
Deman & Lewis, ante, p. 342), and the operation of that
law is in no way displaced or interfered with.
Judgment affirmed.

