KANSAS CITY RY. v. KANSAS.

240 U. S.

Syllabus.

gineering & Contracting Company was not a nominal
party, nor was the action in any senselbrought for the bene-,
fit of the Carolina Electrical Company. The record shows
that it was brought, so far as this claim is concerned,
solely for' the benefit of the Electrical Engineering &
Contracting Company upon the allegation that the claim
had been assigned to it for value and that it was the exclusive and beneficial owner. According to the record,
the Carolina Electrical Company was not made a party
at any stage of the action unless this was accomplished
by the decision and the judgment. But at the time of
the decision, November 10, 1913, by reason of the express
limitation of the statute, it was too late for that company
to intervene.
The judgment is modified by striking out the provision
in favor of the Carolina Electrical Company, and as thus
modified is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

KANSAS .CITY, FORT SCOTT & MEMPHIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. BOTKIN, SECRETARY OF
STATE OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 450. Submitted January 7, 1916.-Decided'February 21, 1916.

The State cannot lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form by
imposing it either upon business constituting such commerce or on
the privilege of engaging in it, or upon the receipts as such derived

therefrom.
Whether a state tax has such a direct relation to interstAte commerce
as to be an exercise of power prohibited by the commerce clause
depends upon the operation and effect of the tax as enforced and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

not upon the manner in which the taxing scheme has been characterized.
The State has authority to tax A domestic corporation for the privilege
of being a corporation, and such a tax is not necessarily invalid
because measured by the capital stock, part of which may represent
capital not subject to the taxing power of the State.
A State is not debarred from imposing a tax upon the granted privilege of being a corporation, because the corporation may be engaged in interstate commerce.
The validity of each tax must be decided upon its own facts, and a tax
within the taxing power of the State will not be condemned as
repugnant to the Federal Constitution unless its natural operation
and effect render it a prohibited exaction.
The tax imposed'by chapter 135, Kansas.Laws of 1913, on the privilege of being a corporation is not laid upon interstate commerce or
receipts therefrom or fluctuating with the volume of interstate
business, but is simply graduated according to paid up capital with
a reasonable maximum; and it is not, as to a domestic corporation
engaged in both interstate and intrastate commerce, invalid either
as a violation' of the commerce clause as taxing interstate commerce or of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
as taxing property beyond the jurisdiction of the State.
95 Kansas, 261, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the commerce and due process clauses of the Federal
Constitution and the construction of the statute of Kansas of 1913 imposing annual taxes on corporations, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. R. R. Vermilion and Mr. W. F. Evans for plaintiff
in error:
The tax involved is not in lieu of property tax. The
statute provides no method for ascertaining proportion
of stock of domestic corporations devoted to Kansas
business. The statute imposes a burden on interstate
commerce and seeks to tax property beyond the jurisdiction of the State of Kansas. West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Kansas, 216'U. S. 31.
There is no distinction between foreign and domestic

KANSAS CITY RY. v. KANSAS.
240 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

corporations. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 36;
Phila. & Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326;
Galveston, Harrisburg &c. Ry. v. Texas, 2.10,U. S. 217;
Meyer v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298; Ludwig v.
West. Un. Tel. Co., 216 U. S. 146.
A corporation may pay under protest and recover
-taxes. Atchison, Topeka &c. 'Ry. v. O'Connor, 223 U. S.
280.
This court cannot reshape the statute. Meyer v. Wells,
Fargo & Co., 223 U. S. 298; United States Exp. Co. v.
Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68; Crane Co. v. Looney, 218 Fed. Rep.
260, can be distinguished and do not apply.
The statute denies due process and equal protection
of the laws.
Mr. S. M. Brewster, Attorney General of the State of
Kansas, Mr. James P. Coleman, Mr. W. P. Montgomery
and Mr. J. L. Hunt for defendant in error:
The act in question, as applied to plaintiff in error,
does not regulate or burden interstate commerce. It
imposes an excise tax upon the right or privilege of the
plaintiff in error to exist as a corporation under the laws
of the State. Railway Co. v. Sessions, 95 Kansas, 261;
Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Hamilton Mfg.
Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632; Provident Inst. for
Savings v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 611; Home Ins. Co. v.
New York, 134 U. S. 594.
The State has- full power to impose such a privilege
* tax. Cases supra and Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New
York, 143 U. S. 305; PhiladelphiaR. R. v. Pennsylvania,
15 Wall. 284; PhiladelphiaS. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122
U. S. 326; Minot v.Railway Co., 18 Wall. 206.
Such a franchise tax, if otherwise valid, may be computed or measured in amount by the amount of the capital
stock of the corporation employed in part in carrying on

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

interstate commerce, Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.
107; U. S. Exp. Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; Baltic
Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231 U. S. 68.
The statute imposing the tax provides that the amount
to be paid for the privilege for which it is required shall
be determined by reference to the capital employed in
exercising that privilege, and such capital, or the property
in which such capital is invested, is not itself taxed. Home
Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; Cornell Steamboat Co.
v. Sohmer, 235 U. S. 549.
The statute in question, as applied to domestic railway corporations, does not burden interstate commerce.
PhiladelphiaR. R. v. Pennsylvania, 15 Wall. 284; Philadelphia S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Minot
v. Railway Co., 18 Wall. 206; Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis,
107 U. S. 365; Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436; Railroad
Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456.
The question involved is not within the rule of law
determined in West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1;
Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56; see Railway Co. v.
Sessions, 95 Kansas, 261.
The other cases cited by plaintiff in error can be distinguished.
There is no denial of due process or equal protection
of the laws.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
By Chapter 135 of the Laws of 1913, of Kansas, every
domestic corporation is required to pay to the Secretary
of State an annual fee which is graduated according to
the amount of its paid-up capital stock. When this
capital stock does not exceed $10,000, the fee is $10; when
it exceeds $10,000 but is not over $25,000, the fee is $25;
and there are further increases, graduated as stated,
until the maximum fee of $2,500 is reached, that sum

KANSAS CITY RY. v. KANSAS.

240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

being payable in all cases where the paid-up capital stock
exceeds $5,000,000. The plaintiff in error is a railroad
corporation organized under the laws of Kansas, and its
road extends into several States. It has a paid-up capital
stock of $31,660,000. On March 31, 1914, it paid to the
Secretary of State, under protest, the required fee of
$2,500 and brought this action to recover the amount,
insisting that the tax is a direct burden upon interstate
commerce and is laid upon property outside the State,
and hence is invalid under the Federal Constitution.
The Supreme Court of Kansas sustained the tax, thus
defining its nature: "The fee collected is a tax upon the
right of corporate existence-the franchise granted by
the State to be. a corporation-to do business with the
advantages associated with that form of organization."
95 Kansas, 261.
It must be assumed, in accordance with repeated decisions, that the State cannot lay a tax on interstate commerce 'in any form,' by imposing it either upon the business which constitutes such commerce. or the privilege of
engaging in it, or upon the receipts as such derived from it.,
State Freight Tax Cases, 15 Wall. 232; Philadelphia &
Southern S. Co. v..Pennsylvania, 122 IU. S. 326, 336, 344;
Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640; Lyng v. Michigan, 135
U. S. 161, 166; McCall v. California, 136 U. S. 104;
Galveston, Harrisburg&c. Ry. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 228;
West Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 36, 37; Pullman
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56, 65; Meyer v. Wells' Fargo &
Co., 223 U. S. 298; Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts
231 U. S. 68, 83. And, further, in determining whether,
a tax has such a-'direct relation to interstate commerce
as to be an exercise of power prohibited by the commerce
clause,, our decision must regard the substance of the
exaction-its operation and effect as enforced-and cannot depend upon the manner in which the taxing scheme
has been characterized. Galveston, Harrisburg &c. Ry.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

v. Texas, supra; U. S. Expr. Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S.
335, 346; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. v. Arkansas, 235
U. S. 350, 362.
Examining the statute in the present case, we see no
reason to doubt the accuracy of the description of the
tax by the state court. We take it to be simply a tax on
the privilege of being a corporation,-on the primary
corporate franchise granted by the State. The authority
of the State to tax this privilege, or franchise,, has always
been recognized and it is well settled that a tax of this
sort is not necessarily rendered invalid because it is measured by capital stock which in part may represent property
not subject to the State's taxing power. Thus, in Society
for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594, 606, 607, the power to
levy the franchise tax was deemed to be 'wholly unaffected' by the fact that the corporation had invested in
Federal securities; and in Home Ins. Co. v. New York,
134 U. S. 594, 599, 600, it was held that a tax upon the
privilege of being a corporation was not rendered invalid
because a portion of its capital (the tax being measured
by dividends) was represented by United States' bonds.
These cases were cited with distinct approval, and the
rule they applied in distinguishing between the subject
and the measure of the tax was recognized as an established one, in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 165.
It is also manifest that the State is not debarred from
imposing a tax upon the granted privilege of being a
corporation, because the corporation is engaged in interstate as well as intrastate commerce. Delaware Railroad
Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 231, 232; State Railroad Tax Cases,
92 U. S. 575, 603; Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v.
Pennsylvania, supra; Ashley v. Ryan, 153 U. S. 436;
Cornell Steamboat Co. v. Sohmer, 235 U. S.549, 559, 560.
And, agreeably to the priniciple above mentioned, it has
never been, and cannot be, maintained that an annual tax
upon this privilege is in itself, and in all case6, repugnant

KANSAS CITY RY. v. KANSAS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the Federal power merely because it is measured by
authorized or paid-up capital stock. The selected measure
may appear to be simply a matter of convenience in
computation and may furnish no basis whatever for the
conclusion that the effort is made to reach subjects withdrawn from the taxing authority. We have recently had
occasion (Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, supra), to
emphasize the necessary caution that 'every case involving the validity of a tax must be decided upon its own
facts'; and if the tax purports to be laid upon a subject
within the taxing power of the State, it is not to be condemned by the application of any artificial rule but only
where the conclusion is required that its necessary operation and effect is to make it a prohibited exaction.
In Philadelphia & Southern S. S. Co. v. Pennsylvania,
supra, the State had laid "a tax of eight-tenths of one
per centum upon the gross receipts of said company for
tolls and transportation." As the court said: "The tax was
levied directly upon the receipts derived by the company
from its fares and freights for the transportation of persons
and goods between different States, and between States
and foreign countries, and from the charter of its vessels
which was for the same purpose." It was necessarily
concluded that the tax was imposed upon interstate commerce. In Galveston, Harrisburg &c. Ry. v. Texas, supra,
the tax upon the railroad company was "equal to one per
centum of its gross receipts." The court held that this
was "merely an effort to reach the gross receipts, not
even disguised by the name of an occupation tax, and in
no way helped by the words 'equal to."' By the statute
which was under review in West Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas,
supra,-as was said in Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.,
p. 163, summarizing that case--the State "undertook to
levy a graded charter fee upon the entire capital stock of
one hundred millions of dollars of the Western Union Telegraph Company, a foreign corporation, and engaged in

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

commerce among the States, as a condition of doing local
business within the State of Kansas. This court held,
looking through forms and reaching the substance of
the thing, that the tax thus imposed was in reality a tax
upon the right to do interstate business within the State,
and an undertaking to tax property beyond the limits of
the State; that whatever the declared purpose, when
reasonably interpreted, the necessary operation and effect
of the act in question was to burden interstate commerce
and to tax property beyond the jurisdiction of the State,
and it was therefore invalid." To the same effect were
Pullman Co. v. Kansas, supra, and Ludwig v. West Un.
Tel. Co., 216 U. S. 146, The act before the court in Meyer
v. Wells, Fargo & Co., supra, which provided for what
was called a "gross revenue tax," was deemed to be
"so similar to the Texas statute held bad" in the case of
Galveston, Harrisburg &c. Ry. v. Texas, as to deserve a'
similar condemnation. On the other hand, in U. S.
Exp. Co. v- Minnesota, supra, it appeared that the reference to gross receipts was only intended fairly to measure
a tax upon a subject within the taxing power of the State,
and the tax was sustained. And, in the case of Baltic
Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, supra, where a tax on foreign
corporations was measured by the authorized capital
stock and was limited to $2,000, the court also reached
the conclusion "that the authorized capital is only used
as the measure of a tax, in itself lawful, without the
necessary effect of burdening interstate commerce," and
that hence the legislation was within the authority of the
State. It is true that in that case it was pointed out that
the taxing act did not apply to corporations engaged in
railroad, telegraph, etc., business, or to those corporations whose business is interstate commerce; but it was
also distinctly stated that the products of the corporations
before the court were "sold and shipped in interstate
commerce," and that to that extent they were "engaged

KANSAS CITY RY. v. KANSAS.
* 240 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the business of carrying on interstate commerce" and
were "entitled to the protection of the Federal Constitution against laws burdening commerce of that character."
It was because the tax, although measured by authorized
capital stock, could not in view of its limitations be regarded as imposing a direct burden upon interstate commerce that the tax was upheld. 231 U. S., pp. 68, 86, 87.
In the present case, the tax is not laid upon transactions in interstate commerce, or upon receipts from interstate commerce either separately or intermingled with
other receipts. It does not fluctuate with the volume of
interstate business. It is not a tax imposed for the privilege of doing an interstate business. It is a franchise
tax-on the privilege granted by the State of being a
corporation-and while it is graduated according to the
amount of paid-up capital stock the maximum charge
is $2,500 in the case of all corporations having a paid-up
capital of $5,000,000, or more. This is the amount imposed in the present case, where the corporation has a
capital of $31,660,000. We find no ground for saying
that a tax of this character, thus limited, is in any sense
a tax impbsed upon interstate commerce.
For similar reasons, the contention cannot be sustained
that the tax was one on property beyond the jurisdiction
of the State. Undoubtedly, a tax may be in form a privileg6 tax and yet, in substance, may be a tax on property.
But the present tax cannot be regarded as a property
tax at all.
Judgment affirmed.

