GAST REALTY CO. v. SCHNEIDER GRANITE CO.
240 U. S.

55

Syllabus.

to be within the act of Congress. Spokane & I. E. R. R.
v. Campbell, 217 Fed. Rep. 518. See Act of June 18, 1910,
c. 309, ยง 12; 36 Stat. 539, 552. So again many cases have
intimated that the technical considerations by which the
defendant seeks to establish that it was not engaged in
commerce among the States are not final. Penna. R. R.
v. Clark Brothers Mining Co., 238 U. S. 456, 467. Satage
v. Jones, 225 U.. S. 501, 520. Swift v. United States, 196
U. S. 375, 398. But these questions really are immaterial
here since the Kansas statute is so similar to that of the
United States that the liability of the defendant does not
appear to be affected by the question which of them
governed the case. In such circumstances it is unnecessary to decide which law applied. Chicago & Northwestern
Ry. v. Gray, 237 U. S. 399.
Judgment affirmed.

GAST REALTY AND INVESTMENT COMPANY v.
SCHNEIDER GRANITE COMPANY.
ERROR TO TIJE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 211.

Argued January 21, 1916.-Decided January 31, 1916.

The legislature may create taxing districts to meet the expense of
local improvements without encountering the Fourteenth Amendment unless its action is palpably arbitrary or a plain abuse.
The law does not attempt an imaginary exactness or go beyond reasonable probabilities in establishing taxing districts.
A law establishing a taxing district under which there is no reasonable
presumption that substantial justice will be done, but under which
parties will probably be disproportionately taxed cannot stand as
constitutional against one actually so taxed.
The ordinance of St. Louis authorized by the charter of that city levying part of the cost of paving on property fronting on the street but

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

240 U. S.

based on area without providing for equal depth of the assessment
district results necessarily, and not merely incidentally, in subjecting
owners of property having greater depth than that adjoining them
to greater and disproportionate taxation and is unconstitutional
under the Fourteenth Amendment.
This decision is 'limited to the particular ordinance before the court
and to those who, like the property owner in this case, have suffered
from inequalities which have no justification in law.
259 Missouri, 153, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and constitution'ality under the Fourteenth Amendment of certain
provisions in the charter and a street paving ordinance
of the City of St. Louis, Missouri, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas G. Rutledge and Mr. David Goldsmith, with
whom Mr. Robert A. Holland, Jr., and Mr. J. M. Lashly
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Hickman P. Rodgers, with whom Mr. William K.
Koerner were on the brief, for defendant in error:
The provisions under which this assessment was made
are not repugnant to the Fourteenth Amendment. Shumate v. Heman, 181 U. S. 402; French v. Barber Asphalt
Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324; Schulte v. Heman, 189 U. S. 507.
An assessment against all the ground within an improvement district will not be overthrown merely because one
part of ground within the district may have received
greater benefit from the improvement than another part;
nor for the reason that the improvement does not adjoin
or abut a particular piece of ground within such district.
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97; Kelly v. Pittsburg,
104 U. S. 78; Hager v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701;
Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345; Fallbrook Irrigation
District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112; Cleveland &c. R. R. v.
Porter, 210 U. S. 177, 184.
The question as to whether a particular piece of property is benefited by a local improvement and to what

GAST REALTY CO. v. SCHNEIDER GRANITE CO.
240 U. S;

57

Opinion of the Court.

extent is legislative, and not subject to judicial review.
Spencer v. Merchant, supra; Webster v. Fargo, 181 U. S.
394; Frenchv. Barber Paving Co., 181 U. S. 324; Chadwick
v. Kelly, 187 U. S. 540, 545; Schaefer v. Woerling, 188
U. S. 516.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit to collect a tax for paving Broadway, a
street in St. Louis, levied upon land of the defendants
fronting upon that street. The plaintiff, -lefendant in
error, did the work, received an assignment of the tax
and got a judgment for the amount. The only question
here is whether the ordinance levying the tax under the
consistent with the Fourteenth
charter of the city is.
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
The charter provides that one-fourth of the total cost shall
be leviedupon all the property fronting upon or adjoining
the improvement according to frontage and three-fourths
according to area upon all the property in the district
ascertained as follows: "A line shall be drawn midway
between the street to be improved and the next parallel
or converging street on each side of the street to be improved, which line shall be the boundary of the district,
except as hereinafter provided, namely: If the property adjoining the street to be improved is divided into
lots, the district line shall be so drawn as to include the
entire depth of all lots fronting on the street to be improved. . . , If there is no parallel or converging
street on either side of the street improved, the district
lines shall be drawn three hundred feet from and parallel
to the street to be 'improved; but if there be a parallel or
converging street on one side of the street to be improved
to fix and locate the district line, then the district line on
the other side shall be drawn parallel to the street to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

improved and at the average distance of the opposite
district line so fixed and -located." The defendants' land
lhas a frontage on the west. side of Broadway of 1083.88
feet out of a total in the district constituted said to be
4372 feet. It is an undivided tract extending back nearly
a thousand feet to Church Road. On the south the adjoining property was divided into lots of small depth, and
on the opposite side of Broadway the next parallel street
was about 300 feet from Broadway. The ordinance establishing the taxing district treated Church Road as the
next parallel street within the meaning of the charter, and
included the defendants' tract to a depth of between four
and five hundred feet, while the small lots next to it were
included to only about 100 feet, the opposite lots to about
150 feet and another undivided tract on the east of Broadway, was included by average distance to a depth of
240 feet. The ordinance establishing these'lines was heldi
to follow the charter and to be consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment by the Supreme Court of the State.
259 Missouri, 153.
The legislature may create taxing districts to meet the
expense of local improvements and may fix the basis of
taxation without encountering the Fourteenth Amendment unless its action is palpably aribitrary or a plain
abuse. Houck v.. Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S.
254, 262. The front-foot rule has been sanctioned for the
cost of paving a street. In such a case it is not likely that
the cost will exceed the benefit, and the law does not
attempt an imaginary exactness or go beyond, the reasonable probabilities. French v. Barber Asphalt Co.,
181 U. S. 324. Cass Farm Co. v. Detroit,181 U. S.396, 397.
So in the case of 'asquare bounded by principal streets
the land might be assessed half way back from the improvement to the. next street. Louis. & Nash. R. R. v.
Barber Asphalt Paving .. o., 197 U. S. 430. But as. is
implied by Houck v. Little River Drainage District if the

GAST REALTY CO. v. SCHNEIDER GRANITE CO.
240 U. S.

59

Opinion of the Court.

law is of such a character that there is no reasonable presumption that substantial justice generally will be done,
but the probability is that the parties will be taxed disproportionately to each other and to the benefit conferred
the law cannot stand against the complaint of one so
taxed in fact. Martin v. District of Columbia, 205 U. S.
135, 139.
The city of St. Louis is shown by this case and by others
in the Missouri reports to contain tracts not yet cut into
city lots, extending back from streets without encountering a parallel street much farther than the distance within
which paving could be supposed to be a benefit. See, for
instance, Gilsonite Roofing Co. v. St. Louis Fair Association, 231 Missouri, 589. Granite Paving Co. v. Fleming,
251 Missouri, 210. Loth v. St. Louis, 257 Missouri, 399.
Bush Construction Co. v. Withnell, 185 Mo. App. 408.
The ordinance, following the charter as construed, established a line determining the proportions in which
the tax was to be borne that, after running not a hundred
feet from the street, leaped to near five hundred feet when
it encountered such a tract, and on the opposite side of
the street was one hundred and fifty and two hundred
and forty feet away. The differences were not based
upon any consideration of difference in the benefits conferred but were established mechanically in obedience to
the criteria that the charter directed to be applied. The
defendants' case is not an incidental result of a rule that
as a whole and on the average may be expected to work
well, but of an ordinance that is a farrago of irrational
irregularities throughout. It is enough to say that the
ordinance following the orders of the charter is bad upon
its face as distributing a local tax in grossly unequal proportions not because of special considerations applicable
to the parcels taxed but in blind obedience to a rule that
requires the result. And it cannot be said that the ordinance as a whole may be regarded as an individual

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

exception under a rule that promises justice in all ordinary
cases. The charter provisions as applied to a city like
St. Louis must be taken to contemplate such ordinances
under the construction given to it by the state courts.
Judgment reversed.
By stipulation of counsel the same judgment will be
entered in case No. 210.
MEMORANDUM ON PETITION FOR REHEARING, MARCH

20,

1916.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES:

Our decision is limited, of

course, to the particular ordinance before the court;
to the assessment of three quarters determined in the
mode described, and to those who, like the plaintiff in
.error, have suffered from the inequalities that have no
justification in law.
Motion for leave to file petition denied.
LAMAR v. UNITED STATES.1
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 434.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted January 17, 1916.Decided January 31, 1916.

Jurisdiction is a matter of power and covers wrong as well as right
decisions.
The District Court has cognizance of all crimes cognizable under the
authority of the United States and acts equally within its jurisdiction whether it decid6s that the accused is guilty or innocent and
whether its decision is right or wrong.

The objection that an indictment does not charge a crime against the
United States goes only to the merits of the case.
The question in what sense the word officer is used in ยง 32, Criminal
Code, is not one involving the Constitution of the United States.
The same words may have different meanings as differently used, and
For final decision of this case gee 241 U. S. 103.

