OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

ROGERS v. HENNEPIN COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 104.

Argued December 6, 1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.

Where the state court does not decide against plaintiff in error upon an
independent state ground, but, deeming the Federal question to be
before it, actually entertains it and decides it adversely, this court
has jurisdiction to review the final judgment under ยง 237, Jud. Code.
The state court having stated in a per curiam opinion that this case
was controlled by the judgment in another similar case in which it
entertained and decided the same Federal questions as to constitutionality of the tax sought to be enjoined, held that although there
may have been other questions involved in this case, the judgment
did not rest upon an independent state ground.
Memberships in exchanges, such as those involved in this action, are
property notwithstanding restrictions upon their use, and nothing
in the Federal Constitution prevents their being taxed.
Whether memberships in exchanges are in fact taxable under the state
statutes is a matter of local law.
Memberships in an incorporated exchange, as property of the respective members, are distinct from the assets of the corporation,
and taxing the members on their memberships and the corporation
on its assets does not amount to double taxation.
The correct valuation of property is a matter for the taxing officials;
and, where there is no charge of denial of opportunity to be heard.
this court does not sit to review their judgment.
Memberships in an Exchange represent rights and privileges to be
exercised at the exchange where located, and it is competent for
a State to fix the situs of memberships of both residents and nonresidents for the purpose of taxation at the place where the exchange
is located, and in so doing it does not deprive non-resident members
of their property without due process of law.
The State has a broad discretion as to tax exemptions, and the taxation of memberships in association conducting exchanges in which
business transactions are conducted for profit does not deny equal
protection of the laws because memberships in other associations
not conducting business exchanges and where there are manifest

ROGERS v. HENNEPIN COUNTY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

distinctions are not also taxed; the classification has a reasonable
basis.
124 Minnesota, 539, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, under
the Fourteenth Amendment, and the construction, of statutes of Minnesota and proceedings thereunder levying
taxes upon memberships in trade exchanges in that State,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. H. V. Mercer for.plaintiff in error.
Mr. Lyndon A. Smith, Attorney General of the State of
Minnesota, and Mr. William J. Stevenson, with whom
Mr. John A. Rees was on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity to cancel certain assessments
for the year 1912, and to restrain the collection of taxes
imposed accordingly upon the plaintiffs and others in
like case with respect to their memberships in the Chamber
of Commerce of the City of Minneapolis. There were
three groups alleged to be represented by the respective
plaintiffs: One, of members residing in Minneapolis;
another, of those residing within the State, but outside
that City; and a third, of citizens and residents of other
States. The complaint, among other things, averred in
substance that the Chamber of Commerce was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota; that it had no capital stock and transacted no business for profit; that it
furnished buildings and equipment for its members who,
under its rules, transacted business with each other (for
themselves and their customers) upon the trading floor
which was in fact a grain exchange; that the property of
the corporation had been fully taxed; that the memberships, in case of winding up, would have actually no value

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

above the assets so taxed; that it had been the practical
construction of the tax laws of the State that such memberships were not taxable; that the assessments in question
had been laid under the head of "Moneys and Credits,"
and that they were excessive; that memberships in other
associations were not taxed 'although standing in a similar
position'; that the members of the Chamber of Commerce
were 'unlawfully and prejudicially' discriminated against
'by unequally assessing them' and that their property
was taken -'without due process of law, contrary to the
state and federal constitutions'; that, unless restrained,
the attempt to enforce the tax would result in a multiplicity of suits; that in the case of members residing outside of the City of Minneapolis, the certificates of membership were 'kept at their respective residences' and such
members did not 'operate' upon the exchange personally
except 'at rare intervals,' and that their use of such
memberships was practically limited to benefits obtained
'from having other members buy or sell grain for them
as commission merchants' at one-half the 'regular commission' by reason of 'a privilege extended to the members under the rules.'
The defendants demurred to the complaint upon the
ground that it did not state facts Sufficient to constitute
a cause of action. The trial court denied a motion for
temporary injunction and sustained the-demurrer, and
thereupon judgment was entered in favor of the defendants. The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of
the State, assigning as error the holding of the trial court
that the assessments 'did not deny to the several members
in the respective classes the equal protection of the laws'
and did not constitute a taking of property 'without due
.process of law and Without compensation' contrary to the
Federal Constitution. The latter objection was stated in
,various forms, specific complaint being made of the assessment of those members who were said to be outside the

ROGERS v. HENNEPIN COUNTY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of the taxing officers. Another appeal was
then pending in the same court in the case of State v. McPhail, relating to the taxation of memberships in the
Board of Trade of Duluth and, by stipulation, the appeals
were heard together. In the Duluth case, the Supreme
Court held that the membership was taxable under the
statutes of the State and, further, 'sustained the tax there
laid as against contentions under the due process and equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
court said:" We do not sustain the claims that the taxation
of memberships in a Board of Trade or Stock Exchange,
would violate provisions of the Federal or State constitution. .... We see no improper classification here, nor
any lack of equality or uniformity. Nor would it be
double taxation. The members of the Board are not
required to pay taxes on the physical and tangible property of the Board, nor does the Board pay taxes upon the
intangible rights which constitute the value of a membership. And we hold that proceedings to tax such a membership do not deprive the member of his property without due process of law, take property for public use without
just compensation, or deny such member the equal pretection of the laws, in violation of familiar provisions of
the Federal Constitution and amendments." State v.
McPhail, 124 Minnesota, 398.
At the same time, ,the decision in the instant case was
rendered with an opinion per curiam in which, after a
summary statement of the nature of the case, the court
ruled as follows: "The dase was submitted on briefs in
this court with State v. McPhail. The decision in that
case, filed herewith, controls this. Judgment affirmed."
Rogers v. Hennepin County, 124 Minnesota, 539. And
this writ of error has been sued out.
The defendants in error insist that the decision of the
state court inVolved no Federal question; that the suit
was for injunction and that the plaintiffs had an adequate

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

remedy at law. They invoke the familiar rule that when
the decision of the state court rests upon an independent
or non-Federal ground, adequate to support it, this court
has no jurisdiction. Hammond v. Johnston, 142 U. S.
73, 78; Gaar, Scott & Co. v. Shannon, 223 U. S. 468, 470.
But the state court, which alone determines local questions of procedure, did not deny relief because an injunction was sought or because it was considered that under
the state law another remedy was appropriate. It said
nothing whatever as to the form of remedy, or as to the
right to proceed in equity, but considered and decided the
case on the merits, including the Federal questions. No
other conclusion can be drawn from the fact that the sole
reason for the decision is found in the reference to State v.
McPhail as authority,-a case in which no procedural
question was involved. There, the action was brought by
the State itself to recover the tax, and the decision was
directly and exclusively upon the validity of the tax, it
being sustained first, as one authorized by the state law,
and, then, as not repugnant to the Federal Constitution.
The fact that there were some objections to the constitutional validity of the tax in the present case that were not
urged in the McPhail Case, does not affect the matter.
They were all grounds for the contention that the tax
denied the eqlal protection of the laws and took property
without due process of law. That was the ultimate contentiofi which was overruled with respect to the tax in
the McPhail Case, and the allusion to that decision as
'controlling' plainly meant that the court thought that
all the reasons urged for a different view were without
'merit and that the present tax did not violate the Fourteenth Amendment. It is well settled that where the state
court does not decide against the plaintiff in error upon
an independent state ground, but, deeming the Federal
question to be before it, actually entertains it and decides
it adversely to the Federal right asserted, this court has

ROGERS v. HENNEPIN COUNTY.

240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction to review the judgment, assuming it to be a
final judgment as it is here. Hancock National Bank v.
Farnum, 176 U. S. 640, 642; San Jose Land Co. v. San
Jose Ranch Co., 189 U. S.177, 179, 180; Am. Exp. Co. v.
Mullins, 212 U. S. 311, 313; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55, 63; Miedreich v. Lauenstein,
232 U. S. 236, 243; North CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary, 232
U. S. 248, 257; Carlson v. Curtiss, 234 U. S. 103, 106;
Mallinckrodt Works v. St. Louis, 238 U. S. 41, 49.
it is not to be doubted-giving full effect to all the
allegations of the complaint-that the memberships despite the restrictions of the rules were property. See
Hyde v. Woods, 94 U. S. 523, 525; Sparhawk v. Yerkes,
142 U. S. 1, 12; Page v. Edmunds, 187 U. S. 596, 604.
As was said by the Supreme Court of the State with respect to memberships deemed to be essentially similar:
"A membership has a use value and a buying and selling
or market value. It is bought and sold.
'There
is a lien upon it for balances due members.
It
passes by will or descent and by insolvency or bankruptcy. . . . It is true that there are certain restrictions in the ownership and use of a membership. These
may increase or decrease its value, probably in the case
of a board of trade membership greatly enhance it. They
do not prevent its being property." State v. McPhail,
124 Minnesota, 398, 401. Of course, there is nothing in
the Federal Constitution which prevents the memberships
here involved frcm being taxed, and the question whether
they were in fact taxable under the statutes of the State
was a matter of local law with which we are not concerned.
It was the province of the state court to determine what
the terms of the taxing statute authorized and it is for
this court to say Whether in view of the operation of the
statute, as thus defined, it overrides the Federal right which
is claimed. Clement National Bank v. Vermont, 231
U. S.' 130, 134. It is insisted that there was no legislative

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

authority for an official listing of this kind of property,
or for an official estimate of its value, and hence that there
is no valid taxing scheme. But it is manifest that the
statit court, in holding the memberships to be embraced
within the description of property subject to taxation
under the statutes, also held that the statutory scheme,
including the provision for listing and for official valuation, did applyjto these memberships. See 124 Minnesota,
pp. 404-406. Complaint is made that in the present case
the memberships were assessed under the head of "Moneys
and Credits." But this is an administrative matter which
does not touch the fundamentals contemplated by the
Fourteenth Amendment. 'If there was any error or irregularity in the particular application of the state statute
in the case of the assessments in question, it was subject
to correction according to the local practice* and the argument that the statute is defective because there is no
legislative authority for listing and estimate we think is
direct!y opposed to the 'construction placed upon the
statute by the state court. It is also apparent that there
is no merit in the objection that there was a violation of
the Federal Constitution through what is called double
taxation. The membership, as property, was distinct
from the assets of the corporation. Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, 584; Farrington v. Tennessee, 95
U. S. 679, 687; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 106;
Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S.134, 146; and
see St. LDuis Southwestern Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.
350, 367, 368. The cortect valuation of the membership,
in view of all relevant facts, was a matter for the taxing
officials, and we do not sit to review their judgment. The
complaint makes no case whatever of a denial by the statutory scheme of proper opportunity for the hearing of
grievances where the estimate is regarded by the members as excessive. See Brooklyn City R. R. v. New York,
199 U. S. 48, 51, 52; Orient Ins. Co. v. Board of Assessors,

ROGERS v. HENNEPIN COUNTY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S. 358, 360. On the contrary, the complaint
alleges that the plaintiff duly appeared before the Board
of Equalization of the City of Minneapolis and the Minnesota Tax Commission, acting as the State Board of
Equalization, and on behalf of himself and other members
asked to have the assessment canceled, or, if not canceled,
to have it reduced to what was asserted to be a fairer
valuation, and that the Boards were each apparently
inclined to grant the application, but, as it would seem,
withheld action pending the decision of the courts as to
the taxability of the memberships.
There is the further contention with respect to the
authority of the State to tax the memberships owned by
citizens of other States. It is urged that the memberships
are intangible rights held by the member at his domicile.
But it sufficiently appears from the allegations that the
memberships represented rights and privileges which were
exercised in transactions at the exchange in the City of
Minneapolis, and, we are of the opinion, applying a principle which has had recognition with respect to credits
in favor of non-residents arising from business within the
State, and in the case of shares of stock of domestic corporations, that it was competent for the State to fix the
situs of the memberships for the purpose of taxation,
whether they were held by residents or non-residents, at
the place within the State where the exchange was located.
Tappan v. MerchantsBank, 19 Wall. 490, 499; New Orleans
v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309, 319; State Board v. Comptoir
National, 191 U. S. 388, 403; Corry v. Baltimore, 196
U. S. 466, 474; MetropolitanLife Ins. Co. v. New Orleans,
205 U. S.395, 402; Liverpool Ins. Co. v. Orleans Assessors,
221 U. S.346, 354, 355; Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S.1, 12.
With respect to' discrimination, there is no tenable objection because of the exemption from taxation (if they
were exempt) of the various organizations to which the
plaintiffs in error refer,--such as the "Associated Press,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

240 U. S.

Syllabus.

lodges, fraternal orders, churches, etc."

The description

itself suggests manifest distinctions which the. State is
entitled to observe in its taxing policy, despite the general
allegation that these associations stand "in a similar position." The State has a broad discretion as to tax exemptions (Bell's Gap R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232,
237), and the averments of the complaint are very far
from showing any basis for a charge of violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment by unwarrantable discrimination. And, finally, with respect to the, argument that the
plahitiffs in error were denied due process of law because
the state court decided the case upon the authority of the
McPhail Case, without referring to the asserted distinctions between the two cases, it is enough to say that the
cause was heard and determined, and, viewing the judgment as passing upon all the Federal questions raised, we
find no error.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the writ

of error should be dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. MORRISON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 138. Argued December 15, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.

The State of Oregon did not, under ยง 4 of the Act of February 14, 1859,
c. 33, 11 Stat. 383, take title to sections 16 and 36, thereby granted
prior to survey; but, until defined by survey and title had vested in
the State, Congress had power to dispose of them on compensating
the State for the resulting deficiency.
Surveying the public lands is an admiinistrative act, confided by statute

