OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

such a case as the present. Here the obligation of the
bankrupt was clear and unconditional. The right reserved
to the Auditorium Association to cancel and revoke the
privileges was reserved for its benefit, not that of the
grantee of those privileges. It does not lie in the mouth
of the latter, or of its trustee, to say that its service would
not be satisfactory, and there is no presumption that
otherwise it would have been advantageous to the Association to exercise the option. It results that the decree,
in so far-as it limits the provable claim to a period of six
months after the bankruptcy, must be reversed, and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
No. 162. Decree affirmed. No. 174 . Appeal dismissed,
certiorariallowed, and decree reversed.

PINEL v. PINEL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN..
No. 181. Argued January 17, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.
When two or more plaintiffs having separate and distinct demands
unite in a single suit, the demand of each must be of the requisite
amount to be within the jurisdiction of the District Court; when
several plaintiffs unite to. enforce a single title or right in which
they have a common and undivided interest that court has jurisdiction if they collectively equal the jurisdictional amount.
Under par. 1, ยง 24, Jud. Code, where jurisdiction is based on diverse
citizenship, the matter in controversy must appear by distinct avermerit on face of the bill, or otherwise from proof, to exceed $3,000.
In a suit by two children bf'a testator, each alleging a-statutory intestacy as to himself on the ground that he was omitted from the
will through testator's mistake, and one of them claiming by purchase from another child as to whom a like mistake and statutory

PINEL v. PINEL.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

intestacy is alleged, one plaintiff seeking to recover two undivided
shares of one-eighth, and the other one undivided share of one-eighth,
in an estate, the maximum value of which is less than twelve thousand dollars, held that as it does not satisfactorily appear that the
value of the interest of either complainant exceeds three thousand
dollars, jurisdiction does not exist.
In such a suit, the interests of the complainants are separate and distinct; they cannot be aggregated in determining whether the amount
in controversy is sufficient to give jurisdiction.

THE facts, which involve the determination of the
amount in controversy and whether it is sufficient to give
the District Court jurisdiction, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Emil W. Snyder, with whom Mr. Frank E. Robson
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Lynn M. Johnston, with whom Mr. L. C. Stanley
was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JusTcE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a direct appeal under ยง 238, Jud. Code, from
an order dismissing a bill of complaint for want of jurisdiction. There are two complainants, and the jurisdictional questions certified are, (1) whether the amount in
controversy is sufficient to give the court jurisdiction,
and (2) whether the parties are collusively joined.
It is averred in the bill that complainants and defendants are the children of one Charles T. Pinel, a resident
of the State of Michigan, who died June 26, 1888, possessed-in fee simple of a tract of land situate in that State,
and leaving a last will and testament which was afterwards duly admitted to probate there, by which he left
his entire estate to the defendants, failing to provide for
complainants, who are two of his children, and for another
child, Charles W. Pinel; that their omission from the will
was not intentional on the part of the said Charles T.
Pinel, but was made by a mistake or accident; that the
laws of the State of Michigan (Comp. Laws, 1897, ยง 9286),

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

provide that when any testator shall omit to provide in
his will for any of his children, and it shall appear that
shch omission, was not intentional and was made by
mistake or accident, such child shall have the same share
in the estate of the 'testator as if he had died intestate;
that by virtue of the statute complainants and the said
Charles W. Pinel were severally entitled to the same
shares in the estate of Charles T. Pinel, deceased, as if he
had died intestate; that testator left a widow and nine
children, one of whom is since deceased; that after testator's death Charles W. Pinel conveyed all his interest in
the estate to the complainant Sarah Slyfield; and that,
by reason of the premises, "complainant Herman Pinel
is eltitled to an undivided one-eighth interest, and complainant Sarah Slyfield to an undivided two-eighths interest, or in all both complainants together to an undivided three-eighths interest in the aforesaid property,
which said interests are of the value of $4,500 and upwards over and above all encumbrances." The prayer is,
in effect, that the title of complainants to an undivided
three-eighths interest in the land may be established.
The settled rule is that when two or more plaintiffs
having separate and distinct demands unite in a single
suit, it is essential that the dembnd of each be of the
requisite jurisdictional amount; but when several plaintiffs unite to enforce a single title or right in which they
have a common and undivided interest, it is enough if
their interests collectively equal the jurisdictional amount.
Clay v. Field, 138 U. S. 464, 479; Troy Bank v. Whitehead,
222 U. S. 39. This case comes within the former class,
since the title of each complainant is separate and distinct
from that of the other; it being evident that the testator's
omission to provide for one of his children by will, based
upon mistake or accident, is independent of the question
whether a like mistake was made with respect to another
child.

PINEL v. PINEL.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The action having been brought in the District Court
under the first paragraph of ยง 24, Jud. Code (act of
March 3, 1911, ch. 231; 36 Stat. 1087, 1091), on the
ground of diversity of citizenship, it is necessary that the
matter in controversy exceed the sum or value of $3,000,
and that this shall appear by distinct averment upon the
face of the bill, or otherwise from the proofs. The averment that complainant Pinel is entitled to an undivided
one-eighth interest, and complainant Slyfield to an undivided two-eighths interest, making together an undivided three-eighths interest in the property in question,
"which said interests are of the value of $4,500 and upwards over and above all encumbrances," is not the legal
equivalent of saying that the interest of either complainant
is of the value of more than $3,000. It is not necessarily
to be inferred that the value of an undivided two-eighths
is two-thirds of the value of an undivided three-eighths.
The probable cost and difficulty of partition, and other
like considerations, prevent the application of a mere rule
of proportion. Affidavits were submitted pro and con
upon the inotion to dismiss, but they do not help matters.
Complainants submitted five affidavits, all in a stereotyped
form and based on information and belief, stating that
the value of the farm as a whole is $15,000 and upwards,
but saying nothing about encumbrances nor stating distinctly the value of an undivided one-eighth or two-eighths
interest. 'Defendants submitted four affidavits valuing
the farm at not more than $9,000 if free and clear of encumbrances, but showing it encumbered to an amount
upwards of $3,500. Were we to accept the highest valuation stated by anybody ($15,000) and deduct from it the
amount of undisputed encumbrances, we should have a
net valuation less than $11,500. Assuming undivided
shares to be of proportionate value, a two-eighths interest
would be worth less than $3,000.
Upon the whole, it does not satisfactorily appear that

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case. '

240 U. S.

the interest claimed by either complainant is sufficient in
value to confer jurisdiction, and hence the bill was properly dismissed.. It is obvious that, in the view we take
of the case, the question of collusive joinder becomes
immaterial.
Decree affirmed.

UTERHART, TRUSTEE OF STEIN, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 214, Argued January 24, 1916.-Decided April 3, 1916.
The right to succeed to property of a decedent depends upon, and is
regulated by, state law. Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41.
The judicial construction of a will by a state court of competent jurisdiction determines not only legally but practically the extent and
character of the interests taken by the legatees.
The court of the State in which the decedent's will was probated and
having jurisdiction to construe the same, having decided that, as
to the residuary estate, the will involved in this caqe constituted a
trust continuing until after July 1, 1902, and that no beneficiary
was entitled to receive anything except on affirmative exercise of
discretion conferred upon the executors and trustees, held that the
interests of the residuary legatees were contingent and not vested
prior to July 1, 1902, within the meaning of the Refunding Act of
June 27, 1902, except as to such amounts as were actually paid to
the legatees prior to that date by the trustees in the exercise of their
discretion.
49 Ct. Cl. 709, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Refund Act of June 27, 1902, and right to recover certain
taxes paid under the War Revenue Tax of 1898 on account
of interests passing under a will, are stated in the opinion.

