OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

O'KEEFE, RECEIVER OF NEW ORLEANS, TEXAS
& MEXICO RAILROAD COMPANY, v. UNITED
STATES AND THE INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 516.

Argued December 15, 1915.-Decided February 21, 1916.

The Interstate Commerce Commission has jurisdiction to make an
order requiring trunk line railways to reopen through routes and
publish joint rates to interstate destinations with tap lines with
which they have connection, and to prohibit the trunk lin-6s from
making to any tap line an allowance or division out of the joint
rates in excess of a maximum prescribed.
The order in this case was not based on erroneous principles of law,
nor did it exclude competitive conditions from consideratidn, but
the Commission established maximum divisions for the purpose of
preventing preferences, discriminations and rebates as methods of
competition.
This court will presume that the Interstate Commerce Commission
is expert in matters of rate regulation and able to draw inferences
from the facts before it that are not necessarily obvious to others;
and, in this case, held that from the record it appears that the tap line
problem is so complex and the importance of a general rule for allowances to tap lines based on simple elements is so obvious, that
this court will not hold that the adoption of a mileage basis for such
allowances is sufficient to sustain a charge of arbitrary action.
A trunk line has no constitutional right to build up its business by
doing acts that Congress has forbidden from considerations affecting
public welfare; and an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
prescribing maximum rates, if otherwise legal, does not deprive a
trunk line of its property without due process of law by denying it
the right to compete for business in that manner.
Quwre, whether a trunk line can object to an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission prescribing maximum allowances to connecting lines on the ground that the allowance is too small and,
therefore, deprives it of the opportunity to pay a larger amount and
obtain the business.

O'KEEFE v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission establishing maximum allowances to and divisions of joint rates, with tap
lines by trunk lines, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. H. Generes Dufour and Mr. Walter F. Taylor, with
whom Mr. Morgan M. Mann was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwoodfor the United
States, Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill filed
by appellant, as Receiver of the New Orleans, Texas and
Mexico Railroad Company, against the United States
and the Interstate Commerce Commission, praying the
annulment of an order of the Commission, dated July 29,
1914, made in the Tap Line Cases, following the decision
of this court reported in 234 U. S. 1. The order required
certain trunk line railway companies, including the New
Orleans, Texas & Mexico, to reopen through routes and
publish joint rates to interstate destinations with certain
tap lines, including Louisiana and Pacific Railway Company, with which appellant's road had and has a connection, and prohibited any of the line .carriers from making
to any of the tap lines an allowance or division out of
the joint rates in excess of maximum amounts prescribed
as follows:
"For switching a distance of 1 mile or less from the
junction, $2 pei car; over 1 mile and up to 3 miles from the
junction, $3 per car; on shipments from points over 3
miles and not more than 6 miles from the junction 1Y2
cents per 100 pounds; over 6 miles and not more than 10
miles from the junction, 2 cents per 100 pounds; over
10 miles and not more than 20 miles from the junction,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
. Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

2Y cents per 100 pounds; over 20 miles and not more
than 30 miles from the junction, 3 cents per 100 pounds;
over 30 miles and not more than 40 miles from the junction, 31 cents per 100 pounds; over 40 miles from the
junction, 4 cents-per 100 pounds."
The following is an outline of the history of the case.
After the supplemental report of the Commission in Star
Grain & Lumber Co. v. Atchison, Top. & Santa Fe Ry.,
14 1. C. C. 364, 372; 17 I. C. C. 338, in which the making
of allowances and divisions to tap lines for the traffic of
proprietary mills was condemned, although no formal
order was entered, the trunk lines, including the New
Orleans, Texas & Mexico, filed cancellation of tariffs
theretofore filed providing for joint rates with various
tap lines, including the Louisiana & Pacific. Certain of
the tap lines filed complaints with the Commission requesting that through routes and joint rates with trunk
lines be enforced. The Commission thereupon investigated the tap line situation with reference to lumber
operations in the States of Arkansas, Missouri, Louisiana,
and Texas. Pending this investigation, the cancellation
of joint rates was suspended from time to time. On
April 23, 1912, the Commission filed its report, and on
May 14, 1912, its supplemental report (23 I. C. C. 277,
549) and in orders dated May 14 and October 30, 1912,
based upon these reports, it found that the tracks and
equipment of the tap lines with respect to the industry
of the proprietary lumber companies were plant facilities,
and the service performed for the proprietary companies
in moving logs to the mill and mill products to the trunk
line was not a transportation service by a common carrier
railroad, but a plant service by a plant facility, and that
any allowance or division out of the rate on account thereof
was unlawful and resulted in undue and unreasonable
preferences and unjust discriminations; and the order
of October 30 required the trunk lines, including the

O'KEEFE v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

New Orleans, Texas & Mexico, to desist and abstain
from making any such allowance to any of the tap lines
mentioned. Certain, of the tap lines, including the
Louisiana & Pacific, filed petitions in the Commerce
Court to annul this order. The court granted this relief
(209 Fed. Rep. 244), and its decision was affirmed by
this court, 234 U. S. 1, the court holding that the Commission exceeded its authority in condemning the tap line
railroads, when duly incorporated as common carriers
under the state laws, as being a mere attempt to evade
the commerce law and secure rebates and preferences for
themselves. At the same time the court said (p. 28):
"It is doubtless true, as the Commission amply shows
in its full report and supplemental report in these cases,
that abuses exist in the conduct and practice of these lines
and in their dealings with other carriers which have resulted in unfair advantages to the owners of some tap
lines and (to) discriminations against the owners of others.
Because we reach the conclusion that the tap lines involved in these appeals are common carriers, as well of proprietary as non-proprietary traffic, and as such entitled to
participate in joint rates with other common carriers, that
determination falls far short of deciding, indeed does not
at all decide, that the division of such joint rates may be
made at the will of the carriers involved and without
any power of the Commission to control. That body has
the authority and it is its duty to reach all unlawful discriminatory practices resulting in favoritism and unfair
advantages to particular shippers or carriers. It is not
only within its power, but the law makes it the duty of the
Commission to make orders which shall nullify such practices resulting in rebating or preferences, whatever form
they take and in whatsoever guise they may appear. If
'the divisions Qf joint rates are such as to amount to rebates
or discriminations in favor of the owners of the tap lines
because of their disproportionate amount in view of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

service rendered, it is within the province of the Commission to reduce the amount so that a tap line shall receive
just compensation only for what it actually does."
After this decision, the Commission, after a rehearing
and further argument but without taking further testimony, and upon the same record on which its orders of
May 14 and October 30, 1912, had been entered, made
further findings (31 I. C. C. 490), upon which was based
the order of July 29, 1914, now under attack.
The New Orleans, Texas & Mexico Railroad Company
operates, directly and through stock ownership of other
companies, a system of railroad extending from New
Orleans across the States of Louisiana and Texas. The
Louisiana & Pacific Railway Company, incorporated under
the laws of the State of Louisiana, owns and operates
a tap line within that State, including approximately 80
miles of main and branch lines, its main line extending
from De Ridder southerly to Lake Charles, approximately
45 miles, crossing and forming a junction with the main
line of the New Orleans, Texas & Mexico at Fulton, which
is about 25 miles from De Ridder and 19 miles from Lake
Charles. The Louisiana & Pacific connects also with the
following trunk lines: At De Ridder, with the Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe and the Kansas City Southern; at Bon
Ami (near De Ridder), with the Kansas City Southern;
and at Lake Charles, with the Louisiana & Western (Southern Pacific Company), the Kansas City Southern, and the
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern. Located along the
line of the Louisiana & Pacific are certain lumber mills,
which are called proprietary mills because controlled by
the same interests which own the stock of the Louisiana
& Pacific. Some of these are at, De Ridder, Bon Ami,
and Longville, all of which points are north of Fulton,
while one is at Gossport, near Lake Charles. At Bannister
and Ragley, on the line of the Louisiana & Pacific, north
of Fulton, there are non-proprietary mills.

O'KEEFE v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion.of the Court.

In the year 1906, before the construction or definite
location of the New Orleans, Texas & Mexico, an agreement was made between that company, then
known by
another name, on the one hand, and the Louisiana &
Pacific and the various companies owning the proprietary mills, on the other, whereby the Louisiana & Pacific
and the lumber companies agreed to give a substantial
amount of their tonnage to the New Orleans, Texas &
Mexico'upon a division of the joint rates approximating
35%,-not exceeding, however, in any case; 5Y2 cents per
hundred pounds. The lumber tonnage which, pursuant
to this arrangement, the New Orleans, Texas & Mexico
expected to receive and did, until the order.of July 29,
1914, actually receive, was a great inducement for the
company to locate its line through the territory where it
is located. During the five fiscal years prior to July, 1914,
its lumber tonnage amounted to 37.45% of its total gross,
and of this the Louisiana & Pacific supplied approximately
one-third, or about 13% of the total gross tonnage. Since
the order of July 29, 1914, the New Orleans, Texas &
Mexico has been deprived of practically all of this tonnage, which has been diverted to the other trunk lines
because the Louisiana & Pacific, in order to'gain as large
a division of the joint rate as possible, moves its lumber
tonnage from points near the northerly end of its line
across the line of the New Orleans, Texas & Mexico, and
delivers it to the trunk lines at the southerly end of its
line; and also takes tonnage originating near the southerly
end of its line, carries it across the line of the New Orleans,
Texas & Mexico, and delivers it to trunk lines at or near
its northerly terminus. It is said that the practical effect
of the Commission's order results always to the disadvantage of the New Orleans, Texas & Mexico with respect to traffic originating upon the line of the Louisiana
& Pacific, and that the disadvantage is in no case less
than 1 cent per hundred pounds, or approximately $5 per

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

car. A single illustration will suffice. From the mill at
Longville to the junction of the New Orleans, Texas &
Mexico the distance is 8.2 miles, so that if the product of
this mill were shipped over appellant's road, the Louisiana & Pacific would receive only 2 cents per hundred
pounds, or $10 per car; whereas by carrying the product
beyond Fulton to Lake Charles, and there delivering it
to a trunk line, the Louisiana & Pacific receives a division
of 3 cents per hundred; or by taking the Longville product
to De Ridder, the Louisiana & Pacific likewise receives
3 cents per hundred. As the trunk lines all operate under
a common blanket rate on lumber for this territory, the
through rate is the same in all circumstances, and the
proprietary mills route their shipments in such manner as
to give to the Louisiana & Pacific the largest possible
division, always to the disadvantage of the New Orleans,
Texas & Mexico.
It is insisted by appellant that the Commission was
without power to prescribe maximum diyisions, as was
done by the order of July 29, 1914, because no joint rate
was fixed, either by the Commission or by the parties,
and they had not been afforded an opportunity to agree
in respect to the division. This is based upon the view
that ยง 15 of the Commerce Act as amended (Act of
June 18, 1910, c. 309, ยง12, 36 Stat. 539, 551), contains
only two provisions dealing expressly with the division
of rates, the first being applicable where the carriers fail
to agree among themselves upon the division, the other
where the carriers have refused or neglected to establish
through routes or joint rates voluntarily. Without
stopping to consider. whether the circumstances of this
case bring it within either of these provisions, we deem
it clear that to regard these only is to take too narrow a
view of the scope of the section. The first part of the same
section enacts-"That whenever . . . the commission shall be of opinion that any individual or joint rates

O'KEEFE v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or charges whatsoever demanded, charged, or collected
by any common carrier or carriers subject to the provisions of this Act for the transportaton of
.
property .
.
or that any individual or joint classifications, regulations, or practices whatsoever of such carrier
or carriers
. .
are unjust or unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, or unduly preferential or prejudicial or otherwise in violation of any of the provisions
of this Act, the commission is hereby authorized and
empowered to determine and prescribe what will be the
just and reasonable individual or joint rate or rates,
charge or charges, to be thereafter observed in such case
as the maximum to be charged, and what individual or
joint classification, regulation, or practice is just, fair,
and reasonable, to be thereafter followed, and to make an
order that the carrier or carriers shall cease and desist,"
etc. And a later part of the same section (p. 553) prescribes: "If the owner of property transported under this
Act directly or indirectly renders any service connected
with such transportation, or furnishes any instrumentality used therein, the charge and allowance therefor
shall be no more than is just and reasonable, and the
commission may, after hearing on a complaint or on its
own initiative, determine what is a reasonable charge as
the maximum to be paid by the carrier or carriers for the
services so rendered or for the use of the instrumentality
so furnished, and fix the same by appropriate order," etc.
In the case in 234 U. S. 1, this court did not ignore,
but fully recognized, the significance of the community
of interest between the lumber company and the tap
line. It was pointed out (p. 27) that timber and its manufactured products were exempted'from the absolute prohibition of the Commodity Clause of the Hepburn Act (of
June 29, 1906, ch. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 585). But this was
regarded as one of the circumstances rendering it finportant that the Commission should deal with the abuses

OCTOBER, TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

found to exist in the division of joint rates with the tap
lines, not by abolishing them altogether, but by "reducing
the amount so that a tap line shall receive just compensation only for what it actually does." So, in Interstate
Com. Comm. v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 46, the court
said: "The act of Congress in terms contemplates that
if the carrier receives services from an owner of property
transported, or uses instrumentalities furnished by the
latter; he shall pay for them. That is taken for granted in
ยง 15; the only restriction being that he shall pay no more
than is reasonable, and the only permissive element being
that the Commission fiay determine the maximum."
Again, in Ellis v. Int. Com. Comm., 237 U. S. 434, 445, it
was said: "The intervening corporation may be a means
by which an owner of property transported indirectly
renders the services in question, and in that event its
charges are subject to the Commission by section 15."
We are clear that the Commission had jurisdiction to
make the order of July 29, 1914.
Next it is insisted that the Commission applied erroneous principles of law, in that it excluded from consideration competitive conditions as an element in determining whether a division is just and reasonable or
unlawfully discriminatory. The order is not open to this
criticism. It not only takes competitive conditions into
consideration, but establishes the maximum divisions for
the very purpose of preventing preferences, discriminations, and rebates, as methods of competition.
It is insisted that there was no evidence before the
Commission to sustain its finding to the effect that any
allowance or division in excess of the limits prescribed
would result in undue preference and unjust discrimination. This, of course, is to be tested by a consideration of
the evidence that was before the Commission. The
report and supplemental report of April 23 and May 14,
and the orders of May 14 and October 30, 1912, and the

O'KEEFE v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

oral evidence and main exhibits before the Commission
from the beginning of the tap line investigation to the
making of the order last mentioned were offered in evidence. Appellant, however, has printed only a small
part of the testimony, being that which especially relates
to the Louisiana & Pacific Railway, its organization,
ownership, manner and cost of construction, operating
revenue and expenses, accumulated surplus, etc. But,
besides these details as to this line, the Commission had

before it, as its reports show; a mass of evidence relating
to numerous other tap lines, operated under somewhat
similar circumstances, including evidence as to the allowances actually made to them out of the joint rate. Evidence of what was allowed on these tap lines had a
tendency to show what was reasonable and therefore permissible upon other tap lines, including the Louisiana &
Pacific. It is said there was no evidence to enable the
Commission to fix a just compensation to that line for
a haul of a given number of miles as compared with the
just compensation for a haul of a greater or lesser number
of miles; no evidence as to terminal expenses, or cost of
road haul, or the relation between these factors, or as to
other elements which should be taken into account in
fixing a division according to the length of haul. But the
evidence showed that some limitation was called for, and,
in general at least, furnished the materials upon which
to base it. A tribunal such as the Interstate Commerce
Commission, expert in matters of rate regulation, may
be presumed to be able to draw inferences that are not
obvious to others. Nor can it be said that the Commission's action was arbitrary because, while classifying all
the service for distances up to 3 miles from junction as
switching, and allowing for this a division of $2 and $3
per car, allowances for all distances above 3 miles are
based upon mileage. It is admitted that distance is an
element properly to be considered; but appellant insists

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

that terminal service, the origin of traffic, etc., are more
important elements. This is an administrative question.
The 'tap line problem is exceedingly complex, and the
importance of a general rule based upon simple elements
easily ascertained is obvious. We are not able to say
that the adoption of the mileage basis is, under the circumstances, sufficient to sustain a charge of arbitrary
action.
The final contention, which is that the Commission's
order in effect deprives the New Orleans, Texas & Mexico
of its property without due process of law, by denying to
it the right to contract and compete for traffic originating
on the line of the Louisiana & Pacific, is transparently
unsound. The trunk line has no constitutional right to
build up its business by paying bonuses or rebates that
have been forbidden by act of Congress for considerations
affecting the public welfare.
We are not to be understood as conceding that appellant
is in a legal sense aggrieved by the action of the Commission in limiting the allowance to the tap line. The case is
singular, in that neither this tap line nor any tap line is
complaining that the allowance is too small; nor is any
trunk line complaining that it is too great. The real basis
of appellant's complaint, representing a trunk line carrier,
is that the allowance to the tap line is too small. It is
questionable whether it lies in the mouth of the line carrier
to object on this ground.
We recognize the exceptional situation in which
appellant's road is placed, and the hardship that results to it
from the application of the order of July 29, 1914, to the
traffic originating upon the line of the Louisiana & Pacific.
After that order, the New Orleans, Texas & Mexico and
the Louisiana & Pacific undertook to agree upon through
routes and joint rates, with divisions not greater than
those allowed by the Commission, but said to be equalized
so as to enable the New Orleans, Texas & Mexicoto corn-

CAROLINA GLASS CO. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
240 U. S.

305

Syllabus.

pete on equal terms with the other trunk lines. This
agreement, so far as appears, has not been submitted to
the Commission for its approval or disapproval, and we
intimate no opinion upon the question whether that body
ought to approve it.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the con-,

sideration or decision of this case.

CAROLINA GLASS COMPANY v. STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
SAME v. MURRAY ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE
STATE DISPENSARY COMMISSION OF. SOUTH
CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OFSOUTH
CAROLINA.

SAME v. MURRAY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

SAME v. MURRAY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
CIRCUIT.

Nos. '12, 9, 205, 204.

Argued January 20, 1916.-Decided February 21,
1916."

A glass manufacturing company, which had furnished supplies to the
State and various county dispensaries of South Carolina, presented,
pursuant to statute providing therefor, its claim for balance due to,
the State Dispensary Commhission appointed to close up the business

