OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

within the thirty-six hour limit, then it is not liable for
the delay caused by the unloading of the stock." No
exception was reserved to this instruction, no modification of it was suggested and no other instruction upon the
subject was requested. It therefore is apparent that the
assignments based upon this statute are so devoid of
merit as to be frivolous.
Writ of error dismissed.

EMBREE v. KANSAS CITY AND LIBERTY
BOULEVARD ROAD DISTRICT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSOURI.

No. 187. Argued January 18, 19, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Where a taxing district is not established by the'legislature, but by
exercise of delegated authority, there is no legislative decision that
its location, boundaries and needs are such that the lands therein
are benefited, and it is essential to due process of law that the landowners be accorded an opportunity to be heard on the question of
benefits.
Where a statute delegating authority for establishment of taxing
districts provides for a hearing on the question of benefits, the
decision of the designated tribunal is sufficient; and, unless made
fraudulently or in bad faith, due process is not denied.
A statute requiring adequate public notice of the time and place of
presentation of the petition for the creation of a tax district and
providing for presentation of remonstrances with power to the
designated tribunal to hear the petition and remonstrances and to
make such changes in the boundaries of the proposed district as
the public good may require, not only contemplates a hearing, but
authorizes the tribunal to so adjust the boundaries as to ihclude

EMBREE v. KANSAS CITY ROAD DIST.
240 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff-in Error.

only such lands as may reasonably be expected to be benefited by
the improvement.
an inseparable union between the public good. and due reThere is,
gard for private rights.
An adequate hearing may be had before a delegated tribunal authorized
to establish taxing districts for roads and to.declare what lands shall
be included therein as being benefited and due process of law accorded to the owners, although the particular roads to be improved
may not have been designated.
A legislative act establishing zones 'of benefits with graduated ratings
for assessments in districts lawfully created does not deny due
process of law where it does not provide for a hearing on this
particular feature, unless the legislative apportionment is so arbitrary and devoid of -any reasonable basis as to amount to an
abuse of power.
Althodgh no hearing may be afforded to owners of land within a taxing
district on the appraisal of their lands for the purpose of apportioning the tax, if such a hearing is accorded when the tax is sought
not denied.'
to be enforced, due process of law -is
Revised Stat. Missouri 1909, c. 102, art. 7, and Missouri Laws 1911,
373, providing for establishment of road improvement districts and
the i4suing of bonds and levying of special taxes therefor, are not
unconstitutional under the due process. proyision of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
257 Missouri, 593, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the Fourteenth Amendment of proceedings under the
applicable statute of Missouri for issuing and selling road
district bonds and levy of special taxes to pay them, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Harris L. Moore, with whom Mr. John M.
Cleary and Mr. James F. Simrall, Mr. Ernest Simrall
and Mr. W_ A.. Craven were on. the brief, for plaintiff in
error:
Where the power to determine the boundaries of the
benefit district, and what property shall be assessed to
pay for an improvement, is delegated to a non-legisiative
body, due process of law demands notice and a hearing on

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

whether the property so marked out for taxation is, in
fact, benefited. Fallbrook District v. Bradley, 164 U. S.
170; Argyle v. Johnson, i18 Pac. Rep. 487; Spencer v.
Merchant, 125 U. S. 345; Soliah v. Haskin, 222 U. S.
522; In re Kissel Ave., 143 N. Y. Supp. 467; Bauman
v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548.
While it is true that ordinarily a benefit assessment
that must be collected by suit cannot be said to be wanting in due process of law, yet if in such suit the property
owner cannot have tried the question of whether his
property is benefited, then such suit does not constitute
due process of law as to that question, or supply the lack
of a hearing thereon. Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S.
373; 385; In re Riverside Park, 138 N. W. Rep. 426;
Argyle v. Johnson, 39 Utah, 500; Central of Georgia Ry.
v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127; Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S.
269.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Missouri,'in so far
as it construes the statute in question, is conclusive, and
where it has held that the statute contains a legislative
determination of the benefit district, then that is a conclusive decision that there is no hearing on that question,
when suit is brought to collect. Central of Georgia Ry,
v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127.
While the fact that a benefit assessment is to be collected by suit ordinarily constitutes due process of law,
yet when a benefit assessment has become a final lien,
divided into twenty installments, recorded in the public
records as a lien on the land, and sold for cash, even if it
is a fact that each property owner may defend each of
the twenty suits required to be brought against each separate piece of property, being subject to heavy -penalties
and attorneys' fees in case of failure to make good the
defense in whole or in part, there is neithbr suoh timely
nor adequate hearing-as is necessary to constitute due
process of law. See cases supra.

EMBREE v. KANSAS CITY ROAD DIST.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. William M. Williams and Mr. Claude Hardwicke
for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is a suit to restrain the issue and sale of road
district bonds and the levy and recordation of special
taxes to pay them. A trial of the issues resulted in a
judgment for the defendants, which at first was reversed
and on a rehearing was affirmed. 257 Missouri, 593. The
plaintiffs prosecute this writ of error.
When the suit was begun the road district had been
.organized, a road had been selected for improvement and
preliminary steps had been taken for issuing the bonds
and levying the special taxes-all conformably to the
local statute. Rev. Stat. Mo. 1909, e. 102, art. 7; Mo.
Lawe 1911, 373.' The district is about seven miles in
length and three in width, and is bounded on the greater
part of one side by the Missouri River. The road selected
for improvement extends through the district in the
direction of its length. The cost of the improvement is
to be met temporarily by the issue and sale of bonds and
ultimately by the levy and collection of special taxes upon
all the lands in the district. The cost is to be apportioned
by rating the lands-without the buildings thereon-at
their full fair value where lying within one mile of the
road, at seventy-five per cent. of such value where lying
between one and two miles from the road and at fifty per
cent. of such value where lying more than two miles therefrom (all seem to be Within two miles here), and then
charging each tract with a share of the entire cost corresponding to its proportion of the value of all the lands as
so rated. The lands are appraised by the district commissioners and the cost of the improvement is apportioned
by the county clerk.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

The plaintiffs own lands within the district and object
to the issue of the bonds and to the levy of the special
taxes, upon the ground that the scheme for subjecting the
lands to the payment of the cost is repugnant to the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States in that the land owner is
not afforded any opportunity to be heard on the questions
whether his lands will be benefited by the improvement,
whether, if benefited, the benefits in the different zones
will be in accord with the graduated ratings before indicated, and whether the appraisement of his lands for the
purposes .of the. apportionment is fair.
The district was not established or defined by the
legislature but by an order of the county court made
under a general law. Whether there was need for the
district and, if so, what lands should be included and
what excluded was committed to the judgment and discretion of that court subject to these qualifications: First,
that the district should contain at least 640 acres of contiguous land and be'wholly within the county; second,
that the court's action should be invoked by a petition
signed by the owners of a majority of the acres in the proposed district, and, third, that public notice-conceded to
be adequate-should be given, by the clerk of the court, of
the presentation of the petition and the date when it would
be considered, and that owners of land within the proposed
district should be accorded an opportunity- to appear,
either collectively or separately, and oppose its formation.
In this connection the statute says: "The court shall hear
such petition and remonstrance, and shall make such
change in the boundaries of such proposed district as
the public good may require and make necessary, and if
after such changes are made it shall'.appear to the court
that such petition is signed or in writing consented to
by the owners of a majority of all the acres of land
within
make a prelimthe district as so changed, the court shall

EMBREE v. KANSAS CITY ROAD DIST.
240 U. S.

247

Opinion of the Court.

inary order establishing such public road district, and
such order shall set out the boundaries of such district
as established .. .
but the boundaries of no district
shall be so changed as to embrace any land not included
in the notice made by the clerk unless the owner thereof
shall in writing consent thereto, or shall appear at the
hearing, and is notified in open court of such fact and
given an opportunity to file or join in a remonstrance."
The order actually made shows that four of the present
plaintiffs, With three others, appeared in opposition
to the petition, recites that "the court, after hearing
and considering said petition and said protests and remonstrances and all evidence offered in support thereof,
finds that the public good requires and makes necessary
the organization, formation and creation of such proposed
public road district . . . with boundaries as stated in
said petition," and sets out the boundaries of the district
as established.
The sole purpose in creating the district, as the statute
shows, was to accomplish the improvement of public
roads therein-the particular roads to be designated by
the district commissioners and an approving vote of the
land owners.
As the district was not established by the legislature
but by an exercise of delegated authority, there was no
legislative decision that its location, boundaries and needs
were such that the lands therein would be benefited by
its creation and what it was intended to accomplish,
and, this being so, it was essential to due process of law
that the land owners be accorded an opportunity to be
heard upon the question whether 'their lands would be
thus benefited. If the statute provided for such a hearing,
the decision of the designated tribunal would be sufficient,
unless made fraudulently or in bad faith. Fallbrook
IrrigationDistrictv. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 167', 174-175.
Did the statute contemplate such a hearing? We have

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

seen that it required that adequate public notice be
given, of the presentation .of the petition for the creation
of the district and the time when it would be considered,
made provision for the presentation of remonstrances by
owners of lands within the proposed district, and directed
that the petition and remonstrances be heard by the
county court, that the Court make such change in the
boundaries "as the public good may require" and that
the boundaries be not enlarged unless the owners of the
lands, not before included consent in writing or appear
at the hearing and be given an opportunity to present
objections. That a hearing of some kind was contemplated is obvious, and is conceded. But it is insisted that
it was not to be directed to the question whether the
lands included would be benefited by the creation of the
district and what it was intended to accomplish. If that
Were so, there would be little purpose in the hearing and
no real necessity for it.
True, the statute does not in terms say that lands which
will not be benefited shall be excluded or that only such
as will be benefited shall be included, but it does say that
the court shall make such change in the proposed boundaries "as the public good may require." in the presence
of this comprehensive direction there can be no doubt
that the legislature intended to authorize and require
the county court to adjust the boundaries so they would
include only such lands as might be reasonably expected
to be benefited by the improvement of the district roads
and therefore might be properly charged with the cost of
that work. That there is an inseparable union between
the public good and due regard for private rights should
not be forgotten.
Of course, the nature and extent of the hearing contemplated by the statute is a question of local law, and if it
were clear that the Supreme Court of the State had settled it we should accept and follow that ruling. Whether

.

EMBREE v. KANSAS CITY ROAD DIST.

240 U. S.

249

Opinion of the Court.

the question has been settled is at least uncertain. In
the principal opinion delivered on the original hearing
that Court said: "We hold that the General Assembly
in granting to land owners of a proposed road district
the privilege of being heard by remonstrance intended
that such land owners should have the right in such
remonstrance to urge against the organization of the
district or the inclusion of their lands therein any statutory
or constitutional grounds which such land owners may
possess; and that if such grounds be valid the court may
exclude the lands of the remonstrants or refuse to incorporate the proposed district. This ruling is rendered
necessary to avoid the conclusion that the General Assembly directed a hearing without intending that any relief
might thereby be obtained." That opinion, although
copied into the record, does not appear in the Missouri
Reports. They contain only the opinion delivered on
the rehearing. The former may have been entirely recalled. If so, the question dealt with in the quotation
made from it has not been settled, for the later opinion
is silent upon the subject. But whether the question be
settled or open is not of much importance, for, as before
indicated, our view of the statute accords with that
expressed by the state court in the excerpt from the first
opinion.
We conclude therefore that the statute did provide
for according the land owners an opportunity to be heard,
when the district was created, upon the question whether
their lands would be benefited, and also that the order
establishing the district shows that the statute was complied with in that regard.
But in opposition to this conclusion it is urged that an
adequate hearing could not be had at that time because
the road to be improved had not been selected and no
one could say what lands would be benefited. We are
not impressed with this contention. As was well under-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

stood, the purpose in creating the district was to bring
about the improvement of its roads. Their number,
location and condition were known, as was also the extent
and nature of their use. The district was of limited area
and the proximity or relation of every part to each road
*was patent. As applied to such a situation, we perceive
no serious obstacle to' determining with approximate
certainty and satisfaction whether the improvement of
any one or more of the roads-even though no particular
one was as yet selected-would be of benefit throughout
the district. We say with approximate certainty and
satisfaction, because this is all that is required. At best
the question is one of opinion and degree, even where the
improvement to be made has been definitely determined.
The boundaries of drainage, irrigation and other benefit
districts are often defined in this way. -Indeed, it is
conceded that had the legislature created this particular
district the present objection would be untenable. If
such a body can obtain the requisite information and
exercise the requisite judgment, it is not easy to believe
that the task would 'be more difficult for a county court
sitting in the vicinity.
The claim that the land owners are entitled to a hearing
on the question whether the benefits in the different zones
will be in accord with the graduated ratings of their lands
is not seriously pressed upon our attention and requires
but brief notice. The ratings are not fixed in the exercise
of delegated authority but by the statute itself, which
must be taken as a legislative decision that in a district
lawfully constituted, in the manner before indicated, the
benefits to the lands in the different zones will be in approximate accord with the ratings named. This being so,
no' hearing is essential to give effect to this feature of the
apportionment. A' legislative act of this nature can be
successfully called in question only when it is so devoid
of any reasonable basis as to be essentially arbitrary and

HAMILTON SHOE CO. v. WOLF BROTHERS. .251
240 U. S.

Syllabus.

an abuse of power (Wagner v. Leser, 239 U. S. 207; Houck
v. Little Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254; Myles Salt
Co. v. Iberia Drainage District, 239 U. S. 478; Gast Realty
Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55. And see BiMetallic Investment Co. v. State Board of Equalization,239
U. S. 441, 445-446), which obviously is not the case
here.
The claim that the land owners are not afforded an
opportunity to be heard in respect of the value of their
lands is also untenable. While no hearing is given when
the lands are appraised one is accorded when the tax is
sought to be enforced. The mode of enforcement is by
a suit in a court of justice, when, as the Supreme Court
of the State holds, owners aggrieved by the valuation
may have a full hearing upon that question.. This is due
process. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104;
Hagar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701, 711.
Judgment affirmed.

HAMILTON-BROWN SHOE CO. v. WOLF'
BROTHERS & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 37. Argued October 28, 29, 1915.-Decided February, 21, 1916.
The words "The American Girl" as applied to women's shoes is not
a geographical or descriptive term signifying that the articles are
manufactured in America, or intended to be sold therein; nor does
it indicate qualities or characteristics of the article.
In this case, held that the term "American Girl " is a fanciful designation, arbitrarily selected by a concern manufacturing shoes to desig-

