OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

erty and rights without compensation; that it is building
a dam and has taken steps that will destroy the plaintiff's
rights; that it is insolvent; that the purpose of the ordinance and certain statutes referred to is to appropriate
and destroy those rights without compensation; that the
defendant purports to be acting under the ordinance, and
that in so acting it violates Article I, ยง 10, and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. It is established that such action is to be regarded
as the action of the State. Raymond v. Chicago Union
Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20. Home Telephone & Telegraph
Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278. Whether the plaintiff
has any rights that the City is bound to respect can be
decided only by taking jurisdiction of the case; and the
same is true of other questions raised. Therefore it will
be necessary for the District Court to deal with the merits,
and to that end the decree must be reversed.
Decree reversed.

GREAT

NORTHERN RAILWAY
KNAPP.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 690.

Argued February 24, 1916.-Decided March 20, 1916.

Where there is no question as to the interpretation of the Employers'
Liability Act or as to the definition of legal principles in its application, but the question is simply whether there were matters for
determination of the jury, this court, with due regard to the appropriate exercise of its jurisdictioh, will not disturb the decision of the
court below unless error is palpable.
In cases of this sort arising under the Employers' Liability Act, not be-

GREAT NORTHERN RY. cO. v. KNAPP.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing of exceptional character, this court confines itself to the mere announcement of its conclusion, as it does, in this case; of affirmance.
130 Minnesota, 405, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a verdict and
judgment in suit for personal injuries under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. L. 'Janes,with whom Mr. E. C. Lindley and Mr.
M. L. Countryman were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Tom Davis, with whom Mr. Ernest A. Michel and
Mr. John I. Davis were on the biief, for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. The plaintiff (defendant in error) was the
station agent at Dassel, Minnesota. It was a part of his
duty to attend the pump house some' distance from. the
station, once or twice a day, and keep filled the water tank
for locomotives. ,The water was pumped by means of'a
gasoline engine, and 'the pump and engine were in a small
room. In proceeding to start the pump at the time in
question, the plaintiff's arm was caught in the clutch of. the
engine and cut off. As the Supreme Court of the State
put it, the plaintiff claimed that "he lost his balance,
either through a slip upon the greasy floor or a'jerk by his
coat being drawn into the fly wheel or shaft, and in striking
out to catch himself his hand and part of the arm came
between the crank of the shaft and top of the hood which
partiall ' but inadequately guarded it." The state court
deemed the evidence to be 'very clear' that it was practicable to interpose safeguards 'so as to fully protect from
danger those who had to pass by.' The plaintiff alleged
negligence in his employer, in failing to provide suitable

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

protection; the company denied negligence and insisted
upon the defense of assumption of risk. The trial court
held that upon the evidence these questions were for the
jury, and there was a verdict for the plaintiff. On motion,
a new trial was ordered unless the plaintiff should remit a
portion of the damages, and, this being done, judgment
was entered which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the State. 130 Minnesota, 405.
It was conceded that when the injury was received,
plaintiff was engaged in work pertaining to the defendant's
business as a common carrier in interstate commerce,
and that the Federal Act applied. The court recognized
that, if assumption of risk by the plaintiff was made out,
it would bar recovery under the Act. Seaboard Air Line
Railway v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492. The court charged the
jury accordingly, and there was no exception by the defendant to the charge, or request on its part for any additional instructions,-the defendant contenting itself with
its motion for dismissal or for a direction of a verdict in
its favor.. The case, then, is one in which there is no question as to the interpretation of any provision of the Federal
Act or as to the definition of legal principle in its application, but simply involves an appreciation of all the facts
and admissible inferences in the particular case for the
purpose of determining whether there were matters for
the consideration of the jury. The state courts, trial and
appellate, held that there were. Having regard to the
appropriate exercise of the jurisdiction of this court, we
should not disturb .the decision upon a question of this
sort'unless error is palpable. The present case is not of
this exceptional character, and we confine ourselves to an
announcement of our conclusion. SeaboardAir Line Railway v. Padgett, 236 U. S. 668, 673; SeaboardAir Line Railway v. Koennecke, 239 U. S. 352, 355.
Judgment affirmed.

