OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

240 U. S.

BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
HOSTETTER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF MARION COUNTY, STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.

No. 245.

Submitted January 25, 1916.-Decided April 10, 1916.

The wages of an employee residing in West Virginia having been garnisheed in the hands of his employer in Virginia, judgment was
entered without notice to the employee, none being required under
the Virginia statute, and paid by the garnishee; the employee then
sued for his wages in West Virginia and the courts of that State refused to enforce'the Virginia judgment for want of service; held error
and that under the full faith and credit provision of the Federal
Constitution the judgment of the Virginia court protected the
garnishee.
THE

facts, which involve the construction and appli-

cation of the full faith and credit provision of the Constitution of the United States, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George E. Hamilton, Mr. FrancisR. Cross and Mr.A.
Hunter Boyd, Jr., for plaintiff in error:
When a creditor of the garnishee's creditor has obtained
a judgment against the garnishee debtor in accordance
with the laws of the place where the garnishee debtor was
personally served, then the garnishee debtor may plead
this judgment as a defense to a suit by his own creditor
in another jurisdiction, provided he was not negligent in
giving his own creditor notice of the attachment proceeding, so that he might have had the opportunity to defend
himself. Chi. &c. Rock Island Ry. v. Sturm, 174 U. S.
710; Harrisv. Balk, 198 U. S. 215; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v.
Deer, 200 U. S. 176.

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. HOSTETTER.
240 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Mr. W. H. Conaway and Mr. Harry A. Shaw for defendant in error:
Omission to show in the return of service that it was in
the county where the agent resides renders the service
invalid, and in such case the court obtains no jurisdiction
of the res, for want of service on the garnishee; nor can
the garnishee accept or waive service.
Voluntary appearance by garnishee does not confer
jurisdiction, nor can he give jurisdiction by voluntary
appearance, when not previously served with the order of
attachment, nor where an attempted service is invalid.
Penn Co. v. Rogers, 52 W. Va. 451.
Where defendant is a non-resident and cannot be
served, jurisdiction of the fund attached cannot be acquired by service of process on the garnishee in Virginia.
Door v. Rohr, 82 Virginia, 259; Va. Code, ยง 2979; Bickle
v. Chrisman, 76 Virginia, 691; Roberts v. Hickory Co.,
58 W. Va. 276.
The proper place to attach by garnishment is at the
place (and State) of the residence of the debtor. Sams on
Attachment, p. 207; Roller v. Murray, 71 W. Va. 161.
A domestic corporation cannot be garnisheed in another
jurisdiction by service upon an agent for debts owing by
it to a home creditor, over whose person jurisdiction is
not acquired. Douglas v. Phcenix Ins. Co., 138 N. Y. 209;
Bullard v. Chaffee, 61 Nebraska, 83; Balk v. Harris, 30
S. E. Rep. 318.
Exemption of wages by the law of the State in which is
the residence of both debtor and creditor and the place
where the wagesare payable cannot be defeated by garnishment pending in another State, although the debtor is
a railroad corporation which has a residence also in such
other State. Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Smith, 19 L. R. A. 577;
see also Singer Mfg. Co. v. Fleming, 23 L. R. A. 210; American Co. v. Ins. Co., 40 Am. Rep. 522.
A court has no power to render a judgment condemning

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

a debt, in a garnishment proceeding, where the situs of
the debt is not within the jurisdiction of the court. Georgia
Ry. v. Brinson, 77 Am. Rep. 382; Buckeye Co. v. Fee, 78
Am. Rep. 743; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Nash, 72 Am. Rep.
181; Balk v. Harris,70 Am. Rep. 606.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
Hostetter, the defendant in error, a resident of West
Virginia, sued in a justice's court in that State for wages
due him by the Railroad Company, now plaintiff in error.
The defense was that the wages had been paid by the
Railroad Company as the result of a garnishment proceeding taken against it in the State of Virginia where it
was suable to enforce a judgment rendered in Virginia
against Hostetter when he resided in that State and after
a domiciliary service on him. The case went from the
justice's court for a de novo trial to the intermediate court
of Marion County where as the result of a verdict against
the Railroad Company it was condemned to pay again,
the court holding that the Virginia garnishment proceeding was not entitled to be enforced as against Hostetter
under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution of
the United States because he was not served with process
in such proceeding, .he then residing in West Virginia, although extra-judicial notice was given him by the Railroad Company of the proceeding. The case is here on
writ of error to review the judgment of the court below
affirming that of the intermediate court, and whether
proper force was given to the full faith and credit clause
is the question for decision.
It is true that in the argument for the defendant in
error various suggestions are made as to the insufficiency
of the record concerning the existence of the Virginia
judgment upon which reliance on the full faith and credit

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. HOSTETTER.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

clause was placed on the ground that the record contains
mere recitals with reference to the judgment, etc., etc.
For the sake of brevity we do not stop to review these
suggestions, although we have considered them all, since
we think they are not only without merit but many of
them are in effect frivolous because in our opinion the
record suffices to establish the facts which were stated by
the court below as the basis fot its judgment, and which
we briefly recapitulate as follows:
The plaintiff in July, 1911, resided at Clifton Forge,
Virginia, and was indebted to one Wagner in the sum of
$35, for which debt Wagner obtained a judgment against
him in a justice's court of Virginia based upon a summons
served "on said plaintiff

.

.

by delivering a copy

.

thereof to the wife of the plaintiff at his usual place of
abode. . . . Said record further shows . . . that
on the 17th day of September, 1912, a garnishee summons was issued by H. H. Harlow, a Justice of the Peace
in the City of Staunton, Virginia,

.

.

.

which gar-

nishee summons was directed against the said Baltimore
and

Ohio Railroad Company

.

.

charging that

.

it had money, or other personal estate, in its possession
or control belonging to the said Hostetter, and requiring
the said Railroad Company to appear
said garnishment or suggestion; .

.
.

.
.

.
to answer
and that on

the 3rd day of October, 1912, said justice last above named
rendered a judgment against the said Hostetter and the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company in favor of the
said Wagner in the sum of $38.40, with interest. .
In this garnishment or suggestion proceeding, no notice
or process of any kind was given to or served upon the
said Hostetter, he then being a resident of this State
[West Virginia], and had been such resident for more
than a year previous to the date of the institution of the
garnishment proceeding. From this said last-named
judgment the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

appealed to the Corporation Court of the City of Staunton,
and this appeal was heard and passed upon by said court
on the 27th day of February, 1913. So far as the record
shows, no notice of such proceeding in the courts of Virginia was given to the defendant until on or about the
14th day of February, 1913, when the said Railroad
Company did notify, in writing, the said Hostetter of
the pendency of the said garnishment proceedings on
appeal in said Corporation Court. . . . It is not
contended that any formal notice was given to said
Hostetter of the garnishment proceedings for the reason
that the Statute of Virginia under which said proceeding
was instituted does not require notice to be given a nonresident of that State of the pendency of the garnishment
or suggestion."
Although the railroad had paid in virtue of the judgment rendered in the garnishment proceeding taken as
above stated, the court agreeing in opinion as we have said
with the trial court, held that the garnishment proceeding
and the judgment in it were no protection to the Railroad
Company because there was no power in the Virginia
courts to garnishee in that State in the hands of the railroad a sum of money due by it to an employee domiciled
in another State without service on such employee in
Virginia, and that the full faith and credit clause imposed
no duty to enforce a judgment in garnishment proceedings affected with the want of power stated.
In view of the decisions of this court dealing with the
exact situation here presented and expressly holding
that the principles upon which the court below based its
action were erroneous and could not be upheld consistently with the duty to apply and enforce the full faith
and credit clause, we need do no more than cite the cases
referred to. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v. Sturm, 174 U. S.
71.0; Harrisv. Balk, 198 U. S. 215; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v.
Deer, 20.0 U. S. 176.

BULLEN v. WISCONSIN.
240 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

As it follows that the judgment below in so far as it
compelled the railroad to pay the second time the sum
which it had discharged under the Virginia judgment
was erroneous, it must be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

BULLEN v. STATE OF WISCONSIN.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT 'OF WAUKESHA
STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 262.

COUNTY,

Argued March -8, 1916.-Decided April 10, 1916.

A deed made by a resident of one State to a person of another State
as trustee for certain beneficiaries of personal property consisting of
stocks and bonds, donor retaining income for life and power of appointment, and providing that no portion of principal or income be
paid over to any person before the donor's death unless by his direction, held not to amount to a transfer of the properUY, and the courts
of the donor's State did not err in sustaining the imposition of an
inheritance tax under the law of that State on the whole fund as
upon a transfer intended to take effect in enjoyment after the donor's
death.
A case is on one side of a statutory line or the other; and if on the
safe side, it is none the worse legally because the full measure of
what the law permits is availed of; to condemn an act as an evasion
it must be on the wrong side of the line as indicated by the policy
if not by the mere letter of the law.
Notwithstanding such deed of trust and that the trustee had possession
in tfe other State of the certificates of stock and bonds and that
State had imposed an inheritance tax thereon owing to the situs
thereof, held that the imposition of the inheritance tax by the State
in which the donor resided was not unconstitutional either as impairing the obligation of contract or as depriving the beneficiaries of
their property without due process of law.
143 Wisconsin, 512, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under

