OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

RAST, TAX COLLECTOR FOR DUVAL COUNTY,
FLORIDA, v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COUP.T OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 41.

Argued October 29, November 1, 2, 1915.-Decided March 6,
1916.

In a suit brought to restrain the bnforcement of the statuteof Florida

of 1913, imposing special license taxes on merchants using profit
sharing coupons and trading stamps on the ground that it violates
the contract and the commerce clauses of, and the due process and
equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to, the
Federal Constitution, and in which the District Court, under
Judicial Code, § 226, granted a preliminary injunction holding that
the statute violated the Fourteenth Amendment without stating
on which provision it rested its decision or determining whether the

statute violated other provisions of the Constitution, this court,
on appeal from the order of injunction reversed and remanded with
instructions to dismiss the bill as the statute does not offend any
constitutional provisions under consideration, and held that:
As the bill shows that the conditions of complainant's business
and property engaged therein are such that enforcement of the

statute would produce irreparable injury it furnishes ground for
equitable relief.
On this appeal this court can pass on the constitutionality of
the statute on all of the grounds submitted for consideration.
A classification based on differences between a business using,
and one not using, such coupons and stamps is not so arbitrary
as to deny equal protection of the law.
A distinction in legislation does not deny equal protection of the
laws if any state of facts can be conceived that will sustain it; and,
even though such facts or their effect may be disputed, courts
cannot arbitrate such differences of opinion.
It is for the legislature to discern and correct evils, not only of
definite injury, but also such as are obstacles to greater public
welfare if within-legislative authority, as is the use of such coupons
and stamps.
Qurre, whether a statute relating to coupons and stamps re-

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Syllabus.
I

deemable exclusively in cash -and credit on purchase is objectionable, the statute and all the schemes under consideration in
this case involving other methods of redemption.
The use of such coupons and stamps in connection with retail
sales to individual purchasers and consumers and not designed to
be used by the manufacturer from another State to the State of
distribution, are not transactions of interstate commerce, and regulations of the use of such coupons and sales otherwise legal do
not interfere with, nor are they a burden, on interstate commerce.
Regulation by a State of the use of such coupons and stamps in
donnection with sales of tobacco is not prohibited by Rev. Stat.,
§ 3394, as amended in 1897 and 1902; that section does not attempt
to protect and enforce permission as to retail sales within the States.
Regulation' of retail sales within the State does not in this case
amount to an attempt to control transportation of the packages
into the State from other States.
The statute is not unconstitutional as impairing .obligation of
contracts as it must be construed as having prospective operation,
and as not affecting sales completecdbefore its enactment.
If a business is subject to regulation by the State and the imposition of privilege taxes for carrying it on, contracts made in its conduct are also subject to such regulation.
There are many restrictions upon liberty of contract and business that do not amount to deprivation of liberty and property
without due-process of law.
In conducting retail business the use of such coupons and stamps
is not advertising pure and simple. The latter is merely identification and description of the article sold, apprising of quality and
space, while the former relies upon something other than the article itself.
Whether-the use of such coupons and stamps can or cannot be
called a lottery, it is still within the power of the legislature to consider it as having similar evils; and the regulation thereof by the
legislature isnot to be impeached and overruled by the courts on
account of difference of opinion in regard to the conclusion reached.
The recognized rule thatlegislative opinion may not impose judicial opinion as to what are fundamental rights, does not determine supremacy in any given instance; but the power of the legislature to regulate conduct and contracts upon its conception of
the public welfare is only subject to review by the courts when
the legislation is unreasonable or purely arbitrary.
Even if the taxes imposed by the statute are prohibitory, the

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

right to carry on business by using such coupons and stamps is not
so protected by the Federal Constitution as to render such a tax a
violation of the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The statute is not open to objection as depriving of liberty and
property without due process of law on account of severity of its
penalties intimidating against testing its legality. Ex parte Young,
209 U. S. 123, distinguished.
214 Fed. Rep. 847, reversed.

A STATUTE of Florida approved JUne 5, 1913 (Vol. 1,
p. 3), imposing licenses and other taxes, provides that merchants, druggists and storekeepers shall pay a license tax
upon the, cash value of the "stock of merchandise" of $3
for the first $1000 or fraction thereof, and $1.50 for each
additional $1000 or fraction thereof. The tax upon wholesale dealers is $1.50 upon each $1000. The statute has
this proviso: § 35, p. 35.
"Provided, further, That each and every person, firm
or corporation, who shall offer with merchandise bargained or sold in the course of trade any coupon, profitsharing certificate, or other evidence of indebtedness or
liability, redeemable in premiums, shall pay annually a
State license tax of Five Hundred ($500.00) dollars and a.
County license tax of two hundred and fifty ($250.00)
dollars in each and every county in which said business is
conducted or carried on, and if moye than one place of
such business shall be operated by any person, firm or
corporation, a separate State and County license shall be
taken out for each such place; and no person, firm or corporation shall offer with merchandise, bargained or sold
as aforesaid, any coupon, profit-sharing certificate or
other evidence of indebtedness or liability, redeemable
by any other person, firm or corporation than the one
offering the same without paying the above license for
each other person, firm or corporation who may redeem
the same. The license prescribed in this section shall be
in addition to other licenses prescribed by this Act. Any

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

person violating any of the provisions of this section,
whether acting for himself or as the agent of another, shall
on conviction thereof be punished by fine not exceeding
one thousand ($1000) dollars or by imprisonment in the
county jail not exceeding six months.
"Mercantile Agencies: Shall pay a license tax of one
hundred ($100.00) dollars in each county in which an
office is established.
"Merchants using trading stamps, shall pay a license
tax of two hundred and fifty ($250.00) dollars for each
place of business where they use such stamps.
"Merchant tailors shall pay a license tax of ten ($10.00)
dollars for each place of business."
This suit was instituted by appellees (Florida merchants) against appellant Rast as tax collector of Duval
County, Florida, and the tax collectors of each county
in the State, the different State's attorneys, county
solicitors and prosecuting attorneys of the circuits and
counties of Florida. The purpose of the suit was to restrain those. officers from proceeding under the statute or
,enforcing it. A preliminary and perpetual injunction was
prayed and 'that the act be declared unconstitutional,
illegal and void.
The bill is very elaborate and we select from its repetitions and condense the following: It alleges the various
businesses in which the complainants are engaged. The
Van Deman & Lewis Company is a Florida corporation
and a wholesale grocer, doing businessbs such and selling
groceries in' certain counties in the State; Harkisheimer
Company is also a Florida corporation and is a retail
grocer; J. S. Pinkussohn Cigar Company is a corporation
organized under the laws of South Carolina and is a wholesale and retail merchant buying and selling cigars and other
tobacco products in the cities of Jacksonville and Pensacola, Florida. With these complainants were joined others,
corporations and'individuals, doing business in Florida.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

It is alleged that complainants and each of them in the
conduct of their business offer for sale and deal in various
and numerous articles of merchandise manufactured and
produced in other States than Florida by persons and
corporations in those States and shipped into Florida
to be sold therein, and who, for the purpose of advertising
their businesses and increasing their sales, enclose in the
packages in which the merchandise is put up for market
and sale coupons, slips, certificates and other profitsharing discount or premium tokens. The articles and
the persons and companies producing them are enumerated.
The manner or method of disposing of and
redeeming
and taking up such coupons, etc., is alleged to be that the
same are enclosed in packages or the wrappers thereof,
or are a part of the wrappers, the packages are put into
boxes, cases or other receptacles or enclosures and shipped
by the manufacturer or producer from his place of business
outside of Florida to the merchants in Florida, generally
to a wholesale merchant or jobber, and are received by
such in Florida and sold to the retail merchants in that
State. The retail merchant sells them to his customers.
When the latter have accumulated a sufficient number of
the coupons, etc., to entitle them to receive a premium or
article or payment therefor according to some list, catalogue or rule promulgated by the manufacturer, producer
or original shipper, they send such coupons, etc., to such
manufacturer, producer or original shipper, or in some
instances, to a company or agency in some State other
than Florida, where they are redeemed or paid or the
articles which the purchasers have selected are sent to
them in consideration of such coupons, etc., or for the
same and a postage stamp or stamps or a small sum of
money in addition thereto. And this in accordance with
the contract, agreement or sale made to the purchasers by
the manufacturer, shipper or producer outside, of the

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Statement of 'the Case.

State. And it is alleged that the transactions so detailed,
the manufacture without the State' and shipment to
wholesale merchants within the State, the sale by the
latter to retail merchants and by the latter again to customers, constitute interstate commerce.
That the form of the coupons, etc.' varies and when
its identity is secured as prescribed it is evidence that
each purchaser of a package has bought a definite part
of some article, to be selected by him or her from a certain list, the list showing a number of valuable articles
which can be paid for by a certain number of the tokens
and a two-cent stamp.
In another case there is an accumulation of the tokens
which are to be sent to the redemption or coupon agency
or corporation and exchanged for a valuable article of
merchandise to be selected by the purchaser from a list
or catalogue furnished him.
, Another form of coupons, etc., is where each of them is
good for a certain value, for instance, one-half cent in
presents or premiums, the coupons being sent from the
State of Florida to another State. There are also other
forms in which the coupons or tokens are to be redeemed,
paid for or used in the purchase of other articles of merchandise or in the accumulation of premiums or the like.
All of the articles are known and largely used as legitimate articles of commerce and the transactions detailed
are interstate commerce,
That divers forms of coupons, etc., in connection with
the sale of merchandise are used by the merchants of the
State substantially in similar form mentioned above and
the payment or redemption is made by the Florida mer.chant in Florida, sometimes by the delivery of some valuable article of merchandise; sometimes by the payment of
cash or the allowance of credit on account of purchases in
the nature of a discount or for or on account of a certain
amount having been purchased of the merchant by the

OCTOBER TERM,. 1915:
Statement of the.Case.

240 U. S.

customer. The tokens are sometimes in the form of a
cash register slip or memorandum.
That the methods detailed are a form of advertising
and .the use of such coupons, etc., induces purchasers
to trade more. largely with and to make more of their
purchases from complainants on account of the additional inducement of "such coupons, etc.; that they in-crease the businesses of complainants and their profits
and enable them to carry and sell stocks of goods covering
the various articles of, merchandise, and are of great importance and value to complainants in their several businesses; and if they are prevented from using them their
businesses will be decreased to the amount of many
thousands of dollars.
That -at the time of the passage of the statute complainants had- on hand large amounts and quantities of
goods and if they axe prevented from selling them iin
the manner detailed they will be subjected to great loss
and damage, will be embarrassed and injured in their
businesses and the value of their property destroyed or
greatly lessened.
That the transactions and methods give an additional
value to purchasers and they are substantially benefited
thereby. That there is no element of gambling or chance
in the transactions and nothing in them or their methods
prejudicial to the public health, safety, morals or wel-,
fare.
That if there is a cessation of the transactions purchasers and customers who have received token' but
have not accumulated a sufficient number of them will
be unable to have the same redeemed or paid or secure
articles therewith. That about 500 merchants are similarly affected with complainants.
That certificates or tokens commonly called trading
stamps and so designated in the statute are substantially
like some of the tokens hereinbefore mentioned and

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

described and when delivered by retail merchants with
the various articles sold to purchasers such purchasers
are entitled to purchase or receive various valuable articles of merchandise, according to a list or catalogue,
upon the presentation of the stamps to some person or
company that has issued the trading stamps and that
redeems them according to the provisions of such list
or catalogue.
That under the statute every person, firm or corporation offering with merchandise any coupon, profit-sharing
certificate or other evidence of indebtedness or liability
redeemable in premiums is not only liable to pay the
license tax for himself or itself but to pay such tax for
every other person, firm or corporation who may redeem
any such coupon, etc.
That such taxes are unreasonable, enormous and prohibitive on account of the number of articles sold, and
by reasor of the provision requiring complainants and
each and every other person in like situation to pay the
license tax to the State, and it is alleged with much circumstance that, from their number and the number of
the articles that each sells, each and every person would
be required to pay for license tax to the State and for
one county or one place of business alone $15,000 per
year or one-half that amount for six months or less
time.
That as a result of the statute, if the tax be paid for
only 100 persons or persons, firms or corporations, it
would amount to $75,000 per anium; if for 1000 persons,
firms or corporations in Florida for one place of business,
it would amount to $750,000, and so on as to any number to be paid by and for each and every of such manufacturer, producer 6r shipper.
That such coupons, etc., enclosed in packages of tobacco and so delivered are authorized and rendered lawful
by section 3394 of the Revised Statutes of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

States as amended by § 10 of the act of July 24, 1897,
30 Stat. 151, 206, c.' 11, and by § 2 of the act of July 1,
1902, 32 Stat. 714, 715, c. 1371.
That the provision of § 35 (the provision quoted
above) of tha Florida. statute and all provisions and
enactments for its enforcement are in violation of the
Constitution of the United States in that they violate
(1) the commerce clause, (2) the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, and (3) the equal protection
clause of that amendment. ' There are many specifications of the particulars and it is alleged: (1) The statute
discriminates between merchants in similar lines of business; (2)-between merchants who adve'tise in a certain
manner and those who advertise in another manner.
(3) The taxes are not upon the business or occupation
of complainants (but upon the mere incidents of the business and are an unreasonable and illegal interference with
the method and manner of conducting the business. (4)
The taxes are unreasonable, arbitrary, oppressive, dis-,
criminatory and prohibitory for the reasons already detailed and are far in excess of the amounts of taxes or
licenses fixed or imposed when other methods of advertising or inducing custom are uged and will prevent
complainants from carrying on their legitimate business.
(5) They are not productive of revenue, are in excess of
the profits of the businesses, and are in fact prohibitory.
(6) That the methods employed by complainants in no
wise affect the public health, morals or, welfare, and the
imposition of the taxes is in no way a legitimate or lawful
exercise of the police power of the State. (7) That the
fines are so' onerous, drastic; excessive and enormous as
to deter complainants in going on and doing business
as they have, heretofore done and testing the validity of
the statute in a court of law.
That by the statute and in § 59 thereof a violation of
its provisions is made a misdemeanor and it is provided

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

in § 35 that for failure to pay any of the license taxes
any person, whether acting for himself or as agent of another, may be imprisoned in the county jail, not exceeding six months.
It is further' alleged that the statute impairs the obligations of the contracts entered into between complainants
and their customers, in violation of clause 1, § 10, Article I, of the Constitution of the United States.
That the officers of the State threaten to enforce the
statute and that the State's attorneys, county solicitors
and' prosecuting attorneys of the several circuits and
counties of the State are respectively empowered and
authorized to prosecute in the several courts of the State
and such officers are threatening to prosecute divers of
the complainants, and it is alleged that a multitude of
prosecutions will be instituted, with seizures, sales and
injury of property if a temporary restraining order be
not granted. There is a prayer for such order and for
a perpetual injunction.
A restraining order was issued. The defendants appeared specially and filed motions to dismiss the suit and
as grounds thereof denied the allegations and implications
of the bill as to the various grounds of infringement of
the Constitution of the United States charged against
the statute, and set up that complainants had a complete
and adequate remedy at law. That the bill sought a
restraint of the enforcement of a criminal statute of the
State and to enjoin an alleged threatened seizure of property in the enforcement of the alleged illegal tax and
the enforcement of the collection of a tax imposed by a
statute of the State of a general and public nature
A motion was made for an interlocutory injunction,
hearing upon which was referred to three judges 'Upon
the hearing the injunction was ordered (214 Fed. Rep.
827), to review which this appeal has been prosecuted.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellant.

240 U. S.

Mi. Thomas F. West, Attorney General of the State of
Florida, for appellant:
The case presented is not within the cognizance of the
equity jurisdiction of the Federal courts.,
No ground for equitable interposition is shown to exist.
as against the tax collectors.
A court of equity has no jurisdiction to restrain the
prosecuting officers named, because any action taken by
them looking to the enforcement of the provisions of this
statute is a criminal proceeding, and to enjoin them
actually amounts to enjoining the State from proceeding
in its own courts.
A part of the business conducted by the appellees being wholly intrastate, the enforcement of the statute
cannot yiolate the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
The statute is not in contravention of the due process
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution.
There is a just basis for the classification made
by this ,statute and it does not deny due process of
law.

In support of these contentions, see Odlin v. Woodruff,
31 Florida, 160; FloridaPacking Co. v., Carney, 49 Florida,
293; S. C., 51 Florida, 190; Metcalf v. Martin, 54 Florida,
531; Cruickshankv. Bidwell, 176 U. S. 73; Shelton v. Platt,
139 U. S. 591; Allen v. Pullman Co,, 139 U. S. 658; Pac.
Exp. Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; PittsburghRy. v. Public
Works, 172 U. S. 32; Arkansas Loan Assn. v. Madden, 175
U. S. 269; Harrison v. Kersey, 67 Florida, 24; Bradley v.
Richmond, 227 U. S. 477; Gundlin v. Chicago, 177 U. S. 183;
Florida Constitution, Art. V, §§ 5, 37; Ex parte Nightengale, 12 Florida, 274; In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200; Fitts v.
McGhee, 172 U. S. 516; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123;
Osborne v. Florida, 164 U. S. 650; Singer Machine Co. v.
Brickell, 233 U. S. 304; Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S.

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

16; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 205; Savage v. Jones,
225 U. S. 501; Plumley v. Massachusetts, 155 U. S.461;
Little v. Tanner, 208 Fed. Rep. 605; State v. Pitney, 140
Pac. Rep. 918;Lansburgv. Dist. of Col., 11 App. D. C. 512;
Humes v. Ft. Smith, 93 Fed. Rep. 857; Wilder v. Quebec,
Rap. Jud. Quebec, 25 C. S. 128; Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S.
1; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S.
606; Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157;
Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192; Lindsley v.
Natural Carbonic Co., 220 U. S. 61; Commonwealth v.
Reinecke Coal Co. (Ky.), 79 S. W. Rep. 287; Noble State
Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Freund, Police Power, § 3;
Atchison &c. R. R. v. Mathews, 174 U. S. 96; McLean v.
Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539; Fergusonv. McDonald, 66 Florida,
496; Afro-Am. Assn. v. State, 61 Florida, 85; Peninsular
Ins. Co. v. State, 61 Florida, 376; Pullman Co. v. Knott,
235 U. S. 23; Citizens Tel. Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S.322;
Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59; Patsone v. Pennsylvaiia, 232 U. S. 138; Metropolis Co. v. Chicago, 228
U. S. 61; Atl. Coast Line v. Goldsboro, 232 U. S. 548.
Mr. Charles M. Cooper for appellee:
Where a state statute is attacked as unconstitutional because violating the Federal Constitution and also as violating the constitution of the State, a Federal question is
presented, the United States court has jurisdiction and
may decide all questions involved.
The provisions of § 35 of the statute of Florida, complained of, are-unconstitutional, illegal and void; they are
contrary to and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment as there is no just or reasonable classification upon
which
license taxes are based.
Suchthe
classification has been repeatedly held
by the
Supreme Court of the United States to be unconstitutional
and in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Supreme Court of Florida holds that such classifica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellee.

240 U. S.

tion renders the statute unconstitutional and void under
the Constitution of the United States as well as that of
Florida.
There is nothing in the use of coupons, profit-sharing
certificates, etc., that is prejudicial to public health,
safety, morals or welfare or that brings it under the police
power of the State or justifies or authorizes its prohibition
or suppression directly or by license taxes, and admit that
said license taxes are not imposed for purpose of revenue
or taxation.
Many decisions of Federal and state courts hold such
classification and coupon taxes as involved in this case unconstitutional and void. See cases in highest courts of
Massachusetts, California and New York.
The cases decided in the District of Columbia, even if
correctly decided, do not sustain the constitutionality of
the Florida statutes.
The imposition of such license taxes is in no way a
legitimate exercise of 9ny police power of said State.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida establish
also that the courts are the i nal judges of the validity of
such legislation and that such provisions as are contained
in this statute are invalid Pnder the Constitution of the
United States and oT the State of..Florida.
Frequency of attempts at similar legislation does not
sustain its constitutionality.
The provisions of the Florida statute are contrary to
and in violation of the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution and as the provisions covering interstate
commerce are void, all t-.e coupon license tax provisions
are void.
The'statute is unconstitutional in that it requires complainants ad peisons similarly situated to pay-the license
taxes of other persons, firms or corporations.
The statute attempts to deprive complainants, and all
other persons in like situiation, of the right to bestow a

RAST v.; VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

355

'Opinion of the Court.

gift or give a premium or share of profits of business, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The provisions of the statute which impose fines so gre.t
*and imprisonment so severe as'are fixed for nonpayment
of said license taxes as to intimidate complainants from
cofitinuing to do business and testing the validity of said
statute in a court of law are unconstitutional.
Unjust and arbitrary discrimination without any basis
of reason and denial to complainants of equal protection
of the laws contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment is
further shown by grossly discriminating penalties which
amount to confiscation of the goods complainants have on
hand with inserts of coupons, certificates or the like.
The license taxes upon the face thereof are so exorbitant,
onerous and unreasonable as to be manifestly prohibitory
and void.
The statute, is unconstitutional)because contrary to the
provisions of the Constitution against impairing the'
obligation of contracts.
In its virtual prohibition of tobacco insert coupons,
certificates or the like, the Florida statute is 'contrary to.
the statutes of the United States which authorize such
insertions.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It was determined that the bill set forth grounds of
equitable relief; that the condition of complainants'
businesses and of the property engaged in them was such
that the statute, if exerted against complainants and their
property, would produce irreparable injury, citing Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.
223; Davis & Farnum Mfg. Co. v. Los Angeles, 189 U. S.
207. We concur in this view.
Passing on -the constitutional questions involved, the'

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

court was of opinion that the statute violated the Four-

teenth Amendment and considered it unnecessary to
decide whether there was an interference with interstate
commerce.
It is not entirely clear upon What clause of the Fourteenth Amendment the court rested its judgment. Theequality clause was selected: for special comment. After
stating the limitation upon legislation and the power of
classification, the court proceeds to say: "Is there a just
basis for the classification attempted in this section [§ 351
of the act? Merchants, etc., all pay a tax according to the
value of the stock carried by each, but if they sell goods for
which coupons, etc., are given by themselves or others,
then they must pay this additional tax for each place of
business in each and every county in which said business
is conducted or carried on. And if goods are offered for

sale with which coupons are given, redeemable by persons
other than the seller, then this tax must be paid by him
for each of said lines of goods.
"We can see no just basis for such classification. It is
an arbitrary selection of one merchant for the imposition

of a 'greater burden' than that imposed on others in the
same calling and condition."
But the court went farther and declared that "the use of
coupons, etc., was an entirely legitimate method of advertising" and that such had been the ruling in state cases
which were cited. And excluding the application of cases.
adduced by defendants to sustain the statute as an exer-

cise of the police power of the State, the court said: "As
before pointed out, this coupon business is legitimate, in
no way affecting the health or morals of the community."
Though it is not clear, as we have said, certainly not
explicit in the opinion of the court, vhether it decided the
due process clause as well as the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment was violated by the statute,

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

we may assume that the 'violation of both was decided.
It may be that the court thought that even though the
use of coupons was a legitimate method of advertising and
not affecting the health or morals of the community, it was
nevertheless within the power of the State to license if the
statute were free from discrimination, or it may be that
the court considered that the two grounds interlocked and
were dependent upon the same reasoning. However, the
two grounds may be, indeed must be, taken into consideration as they are submitted for decision.
The ground of discrimination, simply and separated
from the other attacks upon the statute, does not present
much difficulty. The difference between a business where
coupons are used, even regarding their use as a means of
advertising, and a business where they are not used,. is
pronounced. Complainants are at pains to display it.
The legislation which regards the difference is not arbitrary within the rulings of the cases. It is established that
a distinction in legislation is not arbitrary, if any state of
facts reasonably can be conceived that would sustain it,
and the existence of that state of facts at the time the law
was enacted must be assumed. Lindsley v. Natural
CarbonicGas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78. It makes no difference
that the facts may be disputed or their effect opposed by
argument and opinion of serious strength. It is not
within the competency of the courts to arbitrate in such
contrariety. Chi., Burl. & Quincy R. R. v. McGuire, 219
U. S.549; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S.
389, 413, 414; Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S. 446, 452.
It is the duty and function of the legislature to discern
and correct evils, and by evils we do not mean some
definite injury but obstacles to a greater public welfare.
Eubank v, Richmond, 226 U. S. 137, 142; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S. 52, 59. And, we repeat, "it may make
discriminations if founded on distinctions that we cannot
pronounce unreasonable and purely arbitrary." Quon6

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59, 62, and the cases cited
above.
Of course, an element to be considered is the authority
of the legislature over the subject-matter, and this will
best be examined in considering the contentions of complainants under the due process clause. Preceding that,
however, are the contentions based on the commerce clause
and the sanction which the Constitution gives to the
integrity of contracts.
First, as pertinent to our discussion, are the specific
schemes at which, it is said, the statute is directed, and we
adopt. complainants' description of them. The first is
"where the Florida merchant issues his own coupon,
certificate or cash register receipt and himself makes payment or redemption of the same, sometimes by the delivery
of some valuable article of merchandise, sometimes by the
pnyment of cash or allowance of credit on account of purchases, being in the nature of a discount, or for or on
account of a certain amount having been purchased of the
merchant by the customer." In a word, it is a case where
the Florida merchant issues his own coupons and redeems
them.
The second is "where the manufacturer or shipper outside of the State of Florida, in some other State of the
Union, inserts such coupons or certificates in packages of
his goods which he ships to Florida, and the ultimate
purchaser or consumer takes such coupons or certificates
from such packages and returns them to such manufactureror shipper in such State outside of Florida, who gives
a premium for them and sends such premium or proceeds
of redemption to such ultimate purchaser or consumer in
Florida who has forwarded to him such coupons or certificates." The merchandise so shipped into Florida is
kept in stock by the merchants of the State and the
coupons, etc., are delivered upon the sale of the merchandise to their customers, who- have them redeemed in the

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

manner described. That is, the coupons are redeemed by
the person who originally issues-them; the coupons, however, to repeat, being delivered by the Florida merchant
as a part of the transaction between him and the purchaser from him at retail.
The third is "where the manufacturer or shipper in a
State other than Florida inserts in the packages of his
goods which he ships to Florida such coupons or certificates which are taken from the packages by the ultimate
purchaser or consumer in Florida and sent to some company or agency in some State of the United States outside
of the State of Florida other than the manufacturer or
shipper of the goods, to be redeemed or paid, and the
premium or proceeds thereof is returned by such company
or agency to the person in Florida who has sent such
coupons or certificates." This differs from the other two
cases in that a premium company or agency other than
the manufacturer or shipper himself is used for the redemption or payment of the coupons or certificates. But
here again the Florida merchant is a factor because it is in
completion of the sale by him at retail that the coupons are
delivered to the purchasers.
We are careful, by much repetition, to show the difference between the cases, to distinguish between the premium systems, and to show, as urged by counsel, that this
case is not concerned with a license tax upon a trading
stamp business pure and simple, a license upon companies
engaged in such business being provided by another section of the statute.'
It is well here to observe, to avoid misunderstanding,
that the redemption in the first scheme is "sometimes by
the payment of cash or allowance of credit on account of
I "SEc. 55, p. 51. Trading Stamp Firms: Persons or firms or corporations known as trading stamp companies, shall pay a State license tax
of one thousand ($1,000.00) dollars in each county where they-transact
any business."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

purchases,or for or on account of a certain amount having
been purchased of the merchant by the customer." We are
not concerned with a statute directed solely at such method
of redemption or a business so confined. The Florida
statute imposes its license tax on coupons, etc., "redeemable in premiums." And therefore, whether any other
method of redemption-be it by giving a discount or
an allowance of credit simply-would be amenable to
objection we express no opinion. In all of the schemes
other methods of redemption are used and are attempted
to be justified.
With this comment we may say that all of the schemes
have a common character-something is given besides
that which is or is supposed to be the immediate incentive
to the transaction of sale and purchase, something of
value given other than it; and even as to the second and
third schemes, the transactions are only executed through
the purchase at retail. In other words, they are not designed for or executed through a sale of the original package of importation but in the packages of retail and sale
to the individual purchaser and consumer. This fixes
their character as transactions within the State and not
as transactions in interstate commerce, and this is conceded as to the first scheme; it is true as to the second
and third schemes. All of the schemes have their influence
and effect within the State. Nor is such influence and
effect changed or lessened by the redemption of the tokens
outside of the State.
The transactions, therefore, are not in interstate commerce. The sales, as we have said, are not in the packages
of that commerce, they are essentially local, sales, schemes
consummated by such sales, and it is upon them and on
account of their effect that the statute has imposed its
license tax, and not upon the shipment into the State
nor their disposition in the packages of importation.
Of course, there is shipment to Florida merchants but

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for the disposition of the merchandise in retail trade.
The schemes contemplate such disposition and are executed by it. Detach the importations from the retail
sale, consider only the transportation to the State of
merchandise in its original package, being sold therein
in such package, and there may, indeed, be interstate
commerce; but so' detached and so considered the
importations are left without purpose, the schemes
without execution. Indeed, complainants contend for,
the right not only of importations in the original package containing the coupons but the disposition of
the goods and coupons through the retail merchant.
This, we repeat, has no protection in the commerce
clause.
Nor is the regulation of the statute prohibited by
§ 3394, Rev. Stat. as amended in 1897 (July 24, c. 11, § 10,
30 Stat. 151, 206) and 1902 (July 1, c. 1371, § 2, 32 Stat.
714, 715). Section 3394 provides for a tax on cigars and
cigarettes. By the amendment of 1897 it was forbidden
to pack in, attach to or connect with any package of tobacco or cigarettes anything but the wrappers, and it was
futher provided that there should not be affixed to, or
branded, stamped, marked, written or printed upon the
packages or their contents any promise or offer of, or any
order or certificate for, any gift, prize, premium, payment,
or reward. This provision upset the practice of manufacturers and was attacked on the ground that it was
beyond the power .of Congress under the Constitution
to enact, the prohibited practice being a method of advertising. The provision was sustained. Felsenhead v.
United States, 186 U. S. 126, affirming 103 Fed. Rep. 453.
In 1902 the paragraph containing the provision was
amended so as to forbid the enclosure or attachment to
the packages of "any paper, certificate, or instrument
purporting to be or representing a ticket, chance, share
or interest in, or dependent upon the event of a lottery,

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

or any indecent or immoral picture, representation, print
or words."
Let it be granted that this provision permitted the
enclosure in the package of tobacco of tokens of the
character with which this case is concerned. It goes
no farther nor does it purport to go farther. It does not
attempt to protect and enforce the permission to the
retail sales of packages in the State. It might not legally
have such effect if attempted; and such attempt will not
lightly be inferred. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Standard Food Co. v. Wright, 225 U. S. 540. The statute
of Florida does hot seek to control the interstate transportation of the packages, it controls only their sale in the
State through the retail merchant, or, it may be, directly
to the individual consumer for the purpose described,
and in both cases for the ultimate redemption of the
tokens delivered with the sale.
McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115, is not applicable. There Congress, for the effective execution of the
Food and Drugs Act, defined what the "package" of
commerce should be, and necessarily any law which conflicted with it was void. In the case at bar, there is no
such definition. There is only permission to insert in
the package whatever the manufacturer of tobacco may
choose, with a single exception. There. is no compulsion
of use, and omission to avail of the permission has no
,effect upon the purpose of Congress in the enactment of
the revenue laws which provide for the packing of tobacco
products.
The contract clause of the Constitution is also unavailable to complainants.. The statute must be held to have
prospective operation. Sales completed before its enactment are unaffected by it. We say "sales completed,"
and by this we mean those in which the right of redemption according to some of the schemes has accrued as
distinguished from what is alleged in the bill as "the

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

understanding and expectation" arising from one or more
sales that complainants would continue to sell to such,
purchasers other articles so that they might be able to
accumulate tokens and use them. It cannot be said that
there is an obligation to continue sales or an obligation to
continue purchases. Besides, as the business is subject
to regulation the cdntracts made in its conduct are subject to such regulation. Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Mottley,
219 U. S. 467, and N. Y. Central R. R. v. Gray, 239 U. S.
583.
Having disposed of the other contentions of complainants, we are brought to a consideration of the question
whether the statute of Florida offends the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution.
In other words, does the statute interfere with the business liberty of complainants? Is it an illegal meddling
with a lawful calling and a deprivation of freedom of
contract? This is the contention, and it is attempted
to be supported by the assertion that the schemes detailed
in the bill are but a method of advertising and', as, such
mere allurements to customers, not detrimental in any
way to the public health and morals, nor obstructive of
the public welfare; but are a means of enterprise, mere
incidents of the businesses of complainants and as beneficial to their customers as to them. And besides that
they are but a method of giving discount, practically
in some instances a rebate upon the price, and in others
an equivalent gift of some article that may attract the.
choice of the purchaser, the choice being free and the
article of definite utility and value.
These contentions have the support of a number of
cases. They are opposed by others, not nearly so numerous as the supporting cases but marking a change of opinion. Both sets of cases indicate by the statutes passed
upon a persistent legislative effort against the schemes
under review or some form of them, beginning in 1880 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

repeated from time to time until the statute in controversy
was passed in 1913.1 In such differences between judicial
and legislative opinion where should the choice be? That
necessarily depends upon what reasoning judicial opinion
was based. We appreciate the seriousness of the situation. Regarding the number of the cases only, they constitute a body of authority from which there might well
be hesitation to dissent except upon clear compulsion.
The foundation of all of them is that the schemes detailed are based on an inviolable right, that they are but
the exercise of a personal liberty secured by the Constitution of the United States and distinguished from other
lawful exercise of business contracts and activity by a
method of advertising and lawful inducements to an increased custom and that in them there is no element of
chance or anything detrimental to the public welfare.
But there may be partial or total dispute of the propositions. And it can be urged that the reasoning upon which
they are based regards the mere mechanism of the schemes
alone and does not give enough force to their influence
upon conduct and habit, not enough to their insidious
potentialities. As to all of which not courts but legislatures
may be the best judges and, it may be, the conclusive
judges.
This may be illustrated. A lottery of itself isnot wrong,
may be fairer, having less of.overreaching in it, than many
of the commercial "transactions that the Constitution
protects. All participants in it have an equal chance;
there is no admonishing caveat of one against the other.
And at one time it was lawful. It came to be condemned
by experience of its evil influence and effects. It is trite
to say that practices harmless of themselves may, from
1It is said that 23 States have attempted either to prohibit or to
license the selling or use of trading stamps and coupons. And there has
been like legislation for the Nstrict of Columbia and the Territory of
-Hawaii.

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

circumstances, become the source of evil or may have evil
tendency. Murphy v. California,225 U. S. 623.
But no refinement of reason is necessary to demonstrate
the broad power of the legislature over the transactions
of men. There are many lawful restrictions upon liberty
of contract and business. It would be an endless task
to cite cases in demonstration, and that the supplementing
of the sale of one article by a token given and to be redeemed in some other article has accompaniments and
effects beyond mere advertising the allegations of the bill
and the argument of counsel establish. Advertising is
merely identification and description), apprising of quality
and place. It has no other object than to draw attention
to the article to be sold, and the acquisition of the article
to be sold constitutes the only inducement to its purchase.
The matter is simple, single in purpose and motive; its
consequences are well defined, there being nothing ulterior;
it is the practice of old and familiar transactions and has
sufficed for their success.
The schemes of complainants have no such directness
and effect. They rely upon something else than the article
sold. They tempt by a promise of a value greater than
that article and apparently not represented in its price,
and it hence may be thought that thus by an appeal to
cupidity lure to improvidence. This may not be called
in an exact sense a" lottery," may not be called" gaming";
it may, however, be considered as having the seduction
and evil of such, and whether it has may be a matter of
inquiry, a matter of inquiry and of judgment that it is
finally within the power of the legislature to make. Certainly in the first instance, and, as we have seen, its judgment is not impeached by urging against it a difference of
opinion. Chic., Burl. & Quincy R. R. v. McGuire and
German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, supra. And it is not
required that we should be sure as to the precise reasons
for such judgment or that we should certainly know them

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

or be convinced of the wisdom of the legislation. Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 126, 127. See also
Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 132.
But it may be said that judicial opinion cannot be
controlled by legislative opinion of what are fundamental
rights. This is freely conceded; it is the very essence of
constitutional law, but its recognition does not determine
supremacy in any given instance. "While the courts
must exercise a judgment of their own, it by no means is
true that every law is void which may seem to the judges
who pass upon it excessive, unsuited to its ostensible end,
or based upon conceptions of morality with which they
disagree. Considerable latitude must be allowed for differences of view as well as for possible peculiar conditions
which this court can know but imperfectly, if at all. Otherwise a constitution, instead of embodying only relatively
fundamental rules of right, as generally understood by all
English-speaking communities, would become the partisan of a particular set of ethical or economical opinions,
which by no means are held semper ubique et ab omnibus."
Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606, 608, 609.
That case illustrated the reach of the power of government to protect or promote the general welfare. It sustained a provision of the constitution of the State of Cali.fornia which made void all contracts for the sale of the
stock of corporations on margin or to be delivered at a
future day. The practice had been common, its evil
was disputed. It was attempted to be justified by argument very much like those advanced in the case atwas
bar,conbut
judgment
this court decided that the legislative
trolling.
Even more pertinent in illustration of the power of the
States as unaffected by the Fourteenth Amendment is
Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157.. A
statute of the State was sustained which provided that
any one engaged in the manufacture, jroduction or dis-

RAST v. VAN DEMAN & LEWIS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tribution of any commodity in general use, who should
intentionally, for the purpose of destroying the competition of any regular, established dealer, discriminate between different places by selling such commodity at a
lower rate in one place than such person charged in another, after equalizing the distance from the point of production, should be guilty of a crime. Freedom of conduct
was restricted by the statute which had its incentive in
trade advantages. It was the judgment of the legislature
that such practice was an impediment to the public welfare. The legislative judgment was sustained against the
attack, among others, that the law was an infringement of
freedom of conduct and contract.
In Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 224, the company issued scrip payable in merchandise only from its
store as an advance of monthly wages in payment of
labor performed. A statute of the State (West Virginia)
prohibited the issue of any order for the payment of labor
unless it was redeemable in money. The statute was
assailed on the ground that it interfered with the freedom
of contract. It will be observed that there was a consideration for the order payable in merchandise; it was a
payment in advance, and hence it was asserted that the
statute was an injury to the employees and employers.
There were elements in the transactions of apparent advantage to both and it would seem to have been within
the liberty of both to contract upon an estimate of the
value of that advantage. It was deemed an evil by the
legislature and this court sustained its judgment.
In Eric R. R. v. Williams, 233 U. S. 685, a law of the
State of New York required railroad companies to pay
their employ~s semi-monthly and prohibited them from
making contracts which should vary the time of payment.
The law was sustained mainly upon the ground that it was
an amendment of the charter of the corporation, but the
extent of the police power was adverted to and the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

petency of the legislature exercising that power to enact
the legislation., The incentive of the legislation was the
benefit which accrued to the employees by the period of
payment. The public welfare was deemed to be promoted
by it.
Other cases might be cited and, it may be, of more
pertinent application, which, from their number and
instances, would seem to have uttered the last necessary
word upon the power of the legislature to regulate conduct
and contracts and in the exercise of the power to classify
objects, upon its conception of the public welfare, the
right of review to be exerted by the courts only when the
legislation is unreasonable or purely arbitrary.
Complainants allege that the license tax which the
statute imposes is of prohibitory character and assert
that they are exercising inviolable rights and privileges
which the excess of the tax prevents in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment; they contend that hence the
statute is invalid.
It is not certain from the allegations of the bill that the
tax is of the asserted character, but granting it to be so we
have shown that the business schemes described in the bill
are not protected from regulation or prohibition by the
Constitution of the United States. Lawton v. Steele, 152
U. S. 133; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425; Otis v. Parker,
187 U. S. 606; see also Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S.
223, 238; Murphy v. California, 225 U. S. 623; -Postal
Telegraph Co. v. Charleston, 153 U. S. 6.92, 699; McCray v.
United States, 195 U. S. 27; Kehrer v. Stewart, 197 U. S. 60;
Hammond Packing Co. v. Montana, 233 U. S. 331.
The contention that the statute intimidates against a
contest of its legality by the severity of its penalties and is
therefore unconstitutional on that ground within the ruling in Ex parte Young, 209 U: S. 123, is not justified.
Order reversed and case remandedwith directions to dismiss
the bill.

