CAUSEY v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

Statement of the Cae.

CAUSEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 197.

Argued January 26, 1916.-Decided March 6, 1916.

The rule, that findings of fact concurred in by the Master and both
courts below should not be disturbed unless clearly erroneous, applied in this case to findings that the original entryman had entered into an unlawful agreement and fraud to pass title when
acquired to another.
It is immaterial in such a case whether a homestead entry is perfected by five years' residence and cultivation or by commutation
and payment of minimum price, as an agreement to obtain the land
for another disqualifies the entryman from acquiring the title in
either mode.
While there is no controlling statute, and it is therefore essential
that a suit in the name of the United States to cancel a homestead
patent be brought with the approval of the Attorney General, that
objection, in this case, is met by the fact that the United States is
represented in this court by an assistant attorney general and the
production of a letter of the Attorney General authorizing the suit.
This court may infer in the circumstances of this case that the letter
was exhibited in the courts below to meet the objection that the case
was brought without the sanction of the Attorney General.
The United States, in disposing of its public lands, is not on the same
plane as a mere seller of real estate at market value; questions of
enforcement of statutes and of public policy are involved in suits
to cancel patents and the rule applicable to private contracts that
the vendor seeking to rescind must be ready to return the consideration does not apply to the Government in such a suit.
A wrongdoer, whose patent to land is cancelled by reason of his own
fraud, must restore the land and abide the judgment of Congress
as to whether the consideration he paid shall be refunded.

facts, which involve the validity of an entry of
and patent for public lands under the homestead laws, are
stated in the opinion.
THE

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
I

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Mr. T. Marshal Miller for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney. General Knaebel, with whom
Mr. S. W. Williams was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This is a suit by the United States to recover the title
to 157.77 acres of land in Ascension Parish, Louisiana,
patented to Powhatan E. Causey and by him transferred
to James L. Bradford. While the land was yet public,
Causey secured a preliminary homestead entry thereof
by taking an oath, as was required, that he had not directly
or indirectly made, and would not make, any agreement
whereby the title which he might acquire would inure in
whole or in part to the benefit of another. After the
expiration of fourteen months he secured a final entry
under the commutation provision of the homestead law
by presenting proof that he had not sold or contracted
to sell any part of the land, and by paying therefor in
so-called scrip at the rate of $1.25 per acre. Pursuant
to the final entry the land was patented to him, and he
transferred it to Bradford. As grounds for the suit the
bill charges that the oath and proof whereby the entries
were secured were false in that when Causey applied
for the preliminary entry he had entered into an agreement with one Wright, a clerk and agent of Bradford,
whereby the title when acquired was to be passed to the
latter, that both entries were made in pursuaice' of this
unlawful agreement and were therefore fraudulent, and
that Bradford took the transfer from Causey under the
agreement and with full knowledge of the fraud perpetrated upon the Government. It also' is alleged that in
virtue of an arrangement with Bradford, Causey is claiming an interest in half of the land. With Bradford's

CAUSEY v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

401

Opinion of the Court.

consent a decree was entered against him. Causey answered denying the unlawful agreement and fraud, and
the suit was referred to a master, who found the facts to
be as charged in the bill. The findings were sustained
by the District Court, which entered a decree against
Causey, and the decree was affirmed by the CirQuit Court
of Appeals. 203 Fed. Rep. 1022.
Complaint is made of the findings. They were con-,
curred in by the master and both courts, and therefore
should be permitted to stand unless shown to be plainly
erroneous. Washington Securities Co, v. United States,
234 U. S. 76, 78; Gilson v. United.States, 234 U. S.'380,
383. Testing them by the evidence wediscover'no plain
error, but, on the contrary, that they are amply sustained.,
That the title was acquired by substituting the minimum price of the land for apart of the required five'rears
of residence and cultivation, as permitted by the commutation provision of the homestead law, is not material,
for the agreement to obtain the land for the benefit of
another disqualified Causey from acquiring the title in
either mode. Bailey v. Sanders, 228 U. S. 603, 608;-Gilson v. United States, 234 U. S. 380, 384.,
cThe bill, while purporting to be brought in the name
and for the benefit of the United States, and bearing the
signature of the assistant United States attorney for the
district, does not state or show that it is brought with
the sanction of. the Attorney General, and because of
this it is objected; as it was in both courts below, that the
bill should not be entertained but' dismissed. In the absence of a controlling statute, and there is none, it is essential to such a suit that it be brought' with the Attorney
General's approval; and while the usual and better practice is to state or show in the bill that it is brought with his
approval; this is not indispensable. The case is argued
here on behalf of tke Government by one of the Assistant
Attorneys General,. who files a: certified copy of a letter

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

from the Attorney General authorizing the institution
of the suit conformably to a request of the Secretary of
the Interior. This sufficiently meets the objection, especially as it is fairly inferable that the letter was exhibited

in the courts below. United States v. Throckmorton, 98
U. S. 61, 70; McLaughlin v. United States, 107 U. S. 526,
528; Mullan v. United States, 118 U. S. 271, 276; United
States v. San Jacinto Tin Co., 125 U. S. 273, 278-287. The further objection is made that the bill cannot be
maintained because it does not contain an offer to return
the scrip received when the commuted entry was made.
The objection assumes that the suit is upon the same plane
as if brought by an individual vendor to annul a sale of
land fraudulently induced. But, as this court has said,
the Government in disposing of its public lands does not
assume the attitude of a mere seller of real estate at its
market value. These lands are held in trust for all the
people; and in providing for their disposal Congress has
sought to advance the. interests of the whole country by
opening them to entry in comparatively small tracts under
restrictions designed to accomplish their settlement, development and utilization. And when a suit is brought
to annul a patent obtained in violation of these restrictions,
the purpose is not merely to regain the title but also to
enforce a public statute and maintain the policy underlying it. Such a suit is not within the reason of the
ordinary rule that a vendor suing to annul a sale fraudulently induced must ,offer and be ready to return the consideration received. That rule, ifapplied, would tend to
frustrate the policy of the public land laws; and so it is
held that the wrongdoer must restore the title unlawfully
obtained and abide the judgment of Congress as to
whether the consideration paid shall be refunded. United
States v. Trinidad Coal Co., 137 U.. S. 160, 170-171;
Heckman v. ,United States, 224 U. S.413; 447. And see
Rev. Stat., ยง2362; Act June 16, 1880, t- 244, ยง 2, 21 Stat.

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U. S.

403

Syllabus.

287; Hoffeld v. United Staes, 186 U. S. 273;- United States
v. Commonwealth Trust' Co., 193 U. S. 651 ; United States
v. Colorado Anthracite Co., 225 U. S.219.
Decree affirmed.

HANOVER STAR MILLING COMPANY v.
METCALF.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

ALLEN & WHEELER COMPANY' v. HANOVER
STAR MILLING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE. CIRCUIT COURT dF
APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 23. Argued May 7, 10, 1915; No. 30. Argued May 10, 1915.Decided March 6, 1916.

Two District Courts in different circuits having granted temporary
oinjunctions, and both Circuit Courts of Appeals having reversed
upon grounds that went to the merits and differed upon fundamental

questions affecting the same trade-mark, writs of certiorari were
allowed by this court before final decrees notwithstanding the
general rule to the contrary.
Where neither of the parties, citizens of different States, has regis-

tered the trade-mark in dispute under any act of Congress or under the law of any State, and no local rule arising from statute
or decision is shown, cases involving the use of such trade-mark
must be deterined according to applicable common-law prin-

ciples. accorded in trade-ma~k cases is based upon the party's right
Redress

