OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

ment under official approval. "Power to guarantee,"
required by ยง 1, is not the same thing as "authority under
its charter," referred to in ยง 3; and we think the clear
intent was that existence of the former should be determined by the laws in force at place of contract. Neither
circumstances nor language of the act indicate design or
necessity to limit application by the several States of a
well-established system of licensing and taxing bonding
companies not incorporated under their own statutes.
Plaintiff in error's right to carry on business in Pennsylvania depended upon compliance with its laws.
We find no error in the judgment of the court below and

it is
Affirmed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY COMPANY v.
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 170.

Argued January 13, 14, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.

It is within the power of a State, acting through an administrative
board, to require railroad companies to make physical track connections where public necessity exists therefor.
In determining whether such public necessity exists, just regard should
be given on the one side to probably resulting advantages, and, on
the other side, to the necessary expenses to be incurred.
A finding of public necessity for a physical track connection cannot
be supported by the mere declaration of the commission: there must
be sufficient evidence to support it.
In this case, held that the finding of the Railroad Commission of
Georgia that public necessity existed for a physical connection of
tracks of two railroads at a point in the State, was, as held by both
courts below, supported by the evidence, and the order of the Corn-

'SEABOARD AIR LINE v. GEORGIA R. R. COMM. 32
240 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

mission made pursuant to power conferred by ยง 2664, Georgia Code,

was fully justified.
213 Fed. Rep. 27, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order requiring switch connections made by the Railroad Commission of Georgia, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edgar Watkins and Mr. W. 0. Loving, with whom
Mr.. W. CarrollLatimer was on the brief, for appellant:

The physical connection sought would accommodate a
terminal service only and its principal purpose is the accommodation of interstate transportation by furnishing
a terminal service therefor.
Neither the practicability nor reasonableness of the physical connection adopted by the trial court was ever considered or determined by the Commission.
The order takes property of appellant without compensation and for the benefit of its competitor and a few
individuals and is arbitrary, unreasonable and without
substantial evidence to support it.
The connection which met the approval of the t -al
judge was never considered by the Commission, and appellant had no hearing as to its practicability or reasonableness.
Congress having acted upon the subject-matter, the
state Railroad Commission had no jurisdiction to order
the physical connection.
The order serves no public purpose and takes the property of appellant without compensation and for the benefit
of private persons.
In support of these contentions, see Atlantic Coast
Line v. North Car. Com., 206 U; S. 1; Blakely So. Ry.
v. Atlantic Coast Line, 26 I. C. C. 344, 350; Central Stock
Yards v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 192 U. S. 568;.Chicago,
&c. Ry. v. I-fardwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 425; Cole v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Cent. R. R., 86 Georgia, 251; Georgia Statutes for Switch
and Physical Connections; Int. Com. Comm. v. Atchison
&c. Ry., 234 U. S. 294; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. La. R. R. Com.,
236 U. S. 157; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Higdon, 234 U. S.
592; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Finn, 235 U. S. 601; McNeil
v. Southern Ry., 202 U. S. 543; Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Nebraska,
217 U. S. 196; Oregon R. & N. Co. v. Fairchild,224 U. S.
510; Ga. Railway Com. v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 140
Georgia, 817; St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. v. Edwards, 227
U. S. 265; St. Louis S. & P.' R. v. Peoria &c. Ry., 26 I.
C. C. Rep. 226; Southern Ry. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424; State
v. Wrightsville &c. R. R., 104 Georgia, 437; Tex. & Pac.
Ry. v. Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; United States v.
Union Stock Yards, 226 U. S. 286; Wadley So. Ry. v.
State, 137 Georgia, 497; S. C., 235 U. S. 651; Wisconsin
&c. R. R. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287.
Mr. James K. Hines for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the court.
After hearing the interested parties, the Railroad Commission of Georgia concluded that making and main-

taining physical connection at Lawrenceville, Georgia
(a manufacturing town with two thousand inhabitants),
between Lawrenceville Branch Railroad and Seaboard
Air Line Railway would be practicable and to the public
interest; and accordingly passed an order that within
four months the roads should provide and maintain one,

together with sufficient interchange tracks to care for
traffic moving betweeh them. No definite point for the
connection was prescribed; opinion was expressed that
expenses should be borne equally by the two companies;
and they were directed to report their action within thirty
days.

SEABOARD AIR LINE v. GEORGIA R. R. COMM.
240 U. S.

327

Opinion of the Court.

Appellant brought this proceeding in the United States
District Court, Northern District of Georgia, alleging
the order was null and void and asking that its enforcement be enjoined. That court heard additional evidence
and upon the whole record concluded the challenged order
was not unreasonable and the commission was fully justified in making it. 206 Fed. Rep. 181. Injunction was
accordingly denied and suit dismissed, and -this action
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 213 Fed.
Rep. 27.
Section 2664, Georgia Code, 1910, gives the railroad
commission "power and authority, when in its judgment
practicable and to he interest of the public, to order and
compel the making and operation of physical connection
between lines of railroad crossing or. intersecting each
other, on entering the 'same incorporated town or city
in this State." Wadley Southern Ry. v. Georgia, 235
U. S.651.
It is within the power of a State, acting through in
administrative body, to require' railroad companies to
make track connections where the established facts show
public necessity therefor, just regard being given to advantages which will probably result on one side and necessary expenses to, be incurred on the other. The facts
being established, the question then presented is whether
as matter of law there is sufficient evidence to support
a finding of public necessity-the mere declaration of a
commission is not conclusive. Wisconsin &c. R. R. v.
Jacobson, 179 U. S.287, 295, 296; Oregon R. R. & Nay.
Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510; Great Northern Ry. v.
Minnesota, 238 U. S.340, 345.
..The state commission and both courts were of opinion
that the facts sufficed to show public necessity for the
connection in question and that it could be constructed
and maintained Without unreasonable expenditure. The
only substantial question before us is whether such find-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

ing is plainly erroneous because the evidence is insufficient
to support it; and, having examined the record, we are
unable to say the facts disclosed do not give the essential
support. The judgment of the court below is accordingly
Affirmed.

BUTLER

v. PERRY, SHERIFF OF COLUMBIA
COUNTY, FLORIDA.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 182.

Submitted January 14, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.

The term involuntary servitude, as used in the Thirteenth Amendment, was intended to cover those forms of compulsory labor akin
to African slavery which in practical operation would tend to produce like results, and not to interdict enforcement of duties owed by

individuals to the State.
The great object of the Thirteenth Amendment was liberty under protection of effective government and not destruction of the latter by
depriving it of those essential powers which had always been properly
exercised before its adoption.
The Fourteenth Amendment was intended to recognize and protect
fundamental objects long recognized under the common law system.
Ancient usage and unanimity of judicial opinion justify the conclusion
that, unless restrained by constitutional limitations, a State has
inherent power to require every able-bodied man within its jurisdiction to labor for a reasonable period on public roads near his residence
without direct compensation.
A reasonable amount of work on public roads near his residence is a
part of the duty owed by able-bodied men to the public; and a requirement by a State to that effect does not amount to imposition
of involuntary servitude otfierwise than as a punishment for crime
within the prohibition of the Thirteenth Amendment; nor does the
enforcement of such requirement deprive persons of their liberty and
property without due process of law in"violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

