HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U. S.

403

Syllabus.

287; Hoffeld v. United Staes, 186 U. S. 273;- United States
v. Commonwealth Trust' Co., 193 U. S. 651 ; United States
v. Colorado Anthracite Co., 225 U. S.219.
Decree affirmed.

HANOVER STAR MILLING COMPANY v.
METCALF.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

ALLEN & WHEELER COMPANY' v. HANOVER
STAR MILLING COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE. CIRCUIT COURT dF
APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 23. Argued May 7, 10, 1915; No. 30. Argued May 10, 1915.Decided March 6, 1916.

Two District Courts in different circuits having granted temporary
oinjunctions, and both Circuit Courts of Appeals having reversed
upon grounds that went to the merits and differed upon fundamental

questions affecting the same trade-mark, writs of certiorari were
allowed by this court before final decrees notwithstanding the
general rule to the contrary.
Where neither of the parties, citizens of different States, has regis-

tered the trade-mark in dispute under any act of Congress or under the law of any State, and no local rule arising from statute
or decision is shown, cases involving the use of such trade-mark
must be deterined according to applicable common-law prin-

ciples. accorded in trade-ma~k cases is based upon the party's right
Redress

OCTOBER TERM- 1.915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

to be protected in the good will of the trade or business; and the
English rule that a trade-mark is not the subject of property, except
in connection with an existifig business, prevails generally in this
country.
The common law of trade-marks is but a part of the broader law of
unfair competition.
While common-law trade-marks and the right to their exclusive use
may be classed among property rights, the right grows out of use
and not mere adoption.
Where two parties independently employ the same trade-mark or name,
not in general use and susceptible of adoption, upon goods of the
same class but in separate and remote markets, the question of
prior appropriation is legalty insignificant in the absence of in-,
tent on the part of the later adopter to take the benefit of the
reputation, or to forestall extension of the trade, of the earlier
adopter.
While property in a trade-mark is not limited, so far as its use has
extended, by territorial bounds, the earlier adopter may not monopolize markets that his trade has never reached and where the mark
signifies not his goods but those of another.
So far as controversy over a trade-mark concerns intrastate distribution as distinguished from interstate trade the subject is not within
the sovereign power of the United States.
Trade-mark rights, like others that rest in user, may be lost by abandonment,. non-user, laches or acquiescence.
Where a later adopter, in good faith and without notice of its use in
other territory by an earlier adopter, expends money and effort in
building up a trade in a territory, which "the earlier adopter has left
unoccupied for a long period-in this case more than- forty yearsand into which his trade would not naturally expand, the earlier
.adopter is estopped to assert trade-mark infringement in that
territory.
A third party who enters the territory of such second adopter and
attempts to use the trade-name in a manner calculated to, and which
does, deceive by similarity of package, even though the name of the
actual manufacturer is placed thereon, is guilty of unfair competition from which the user of the trade-mark is entitled to protection.
There being diverse citizenship and the jurisdiction of the District
Court resting thereorn the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals
in a trade-mark case is final and an appeal from the decree is dismissed and the decree is reviewed here on certiorari.

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

204 Fed. Rep. 211, reversed.
208 Fed. Rep. 513, affirmed on certiorari and appeal therefrom dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the rights of manufacturers
of and dealers in flour to the use of "Tea Rose" as a trademark, for flour sold in certain territory, and the effect of
non-user on right to use a trade-mark, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Edgar L. Clarkson and Mr. Henry Fitts, with whom
Mr. James E. Morrisette and Mr. John London were on
the brief, for Hanover Star Milling Company.
Mr. J. Fred Gilster and Mr. Edward Everett Longan for
Metcalf.
Mr. J. Fred Gilster and Mr. Edward Everett Longan,
with whom Mr. L. 0. Whitney was on the brief, for Allen &
Wheeler Company.
MR.JUSrICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were argued together, and may be disposed of in a single opinion.
In No. 23, the Hanover Star Milling Company, an
Illinois corporation engaged in the manufacture of flour
in that State, filed a bill in equity on March 4, 1912, in
the United States District Court for the Middle District
of Alabama, against Metcalf, a citizen of the State of
Alabama and a merchant engaged in the business of selling flour at Greenville, Butler County, in that State, to
restrain alleged trade-mark infringement and unfair competition. The bill averred that for twenty-seven years
last past complainant had been engaged in the manufacture of a superior and popular grade of flour, sold by it at

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

all times under the-name of "Tea Rose" flour, in a wrapping with distinctive markings, including the words "Tea
Rose" and a desip containing three roses imprinted
upon labels' attached to sacks and barrels; that this flour
had been marketed thus by complainant in the State of
Alabama for the preceding twelve years, during which
time, by maintaining a high and uniform quality, by
expensive advertising, and by diligent work of its representatives, it had built up a large and lucrative market,
with annual sales, of more than $175,000 of Tea Rose
flour in that State, and had established a valuable reputation for the name "Tea Rose" and the distinctive wrappings in Alabama and other States, particularly Georgia
and' Florida; that until shortly before the commencement
of the' suit complainant's Tea Rose flour was the only
flour made, sold, or offered for sale under that name in
Butler County or elsewhere in 'the State of Alabama, and
the name "Tea Rose" had represented and stood for
cbmplainant's flour[ and that recently the Steeleville
Milling Company, of Steeleville, Illinois, had, through
Metcalf's agency, been marketing in Alabama, and particularly in Butler County, flour of its manufacture, in
packages and wrappings substantially identical with
complainant's and bearing a design containing 'three
roses and the name "Tea Rose" upon the labels, in a
,manner calculated to deceive and in fact deceptive to
purchasers, thereby threatening pecuniary loss to complainant exceeding $3,000 in amount and destroying the
prestige of complainant's "Tea Rose" flour and damaging
its trade therein.
Defendant's answer denied all attempts to deceive purchasers, and further denied complainant's right to the
exclusive use of the words "Tea Rose" or the picture of a
rose. as a trade-mark; averred that long prior to complainant's first use of it, and as early as the year 1872,
the -name had.'been adopted, appropriated, and used as

HANOVER MILLING .CO. v. METCALF.

240 U.S.

407

Opinion of the Court.

a trade-mark for- flour by the firm of Allen & Wheeler,
of Troy, Ohio, and used by it and its successor, The Allen
& Wheeler Company, contmuously as such; and alleged
that the Steeleville Milling Company had used its-"Tea
Rose" brand for more than sixteen years last past, 'and
as early as the year 1899 had sold flour in Alabama under
that label.
Upon consideration of the bill and answer and affidavits
submitted by the respective parties, the District Court
granted a temporary injunction restraining Metcalf from
selling flour labeled "Tea Rose," manufactured by the
Steeleville Company or any person, firm, or corporation
other than the Hanover Company,, at Greenville, or at
any other place in the Middle District of Alabama. Upon
appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals for-the Fifth Circuit
reversed this decree and remanded the cause with directions to dismiss. the bill. 204 Fed. 'Rep. 211. A writ of
certiorari was then allowed by this court.
In No. 30, The .Allen& Wheeler Company, a corporation
of the State of Ohio, manufacturing flour at the City of
'Troy in that State, filed a bill against the Hanover Star
Milling Company on May 23; 1912, in the United States
District Court for the Eastern: District of Illinois, averring that in or before the year 1872 the firm of Allen &
Wheeler,then engaged in the manufacture of flour at
Troy, adopted as a trade-mark for designating one of
its brands the words "Tea Rose," and from thence until
the year 1904 continuously used that trade-mark by placing it upon sacks, barrels, and packages containing the,
brand and quality of flour designated by that term and.
sold throughout the United States; that in 1904 the Allen
& Wheeler Company was incorporated and took over
the mills, machinery, stock, trade-mark, and good-will
of the firn, since which time the corporation had con-.
tinued to. use the trade-mark upon flour of, its manufacture, and had distributed and sold such flour in the mar-

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

kets of the United States, whereby the words "Tea
Rose" had become the common-law trade-mark of the
Allen & Wheeler Company; that recently it had learned
that the Hanover Star Milling Company had adopted
the words "Tea Rose" as designating 'a brand of flour
manufactured by it, and, notwithstanding notice of complainant's rights, was persisting in the sale of its flour
under that name and threatening to continue so to do;
and that defendant had sold large, quantities of Tea Rose
flour, particularly in the markets of the States of Alabama, Florida, and Mississippi, with large gross sales,
and profits approximating $5,000 per year for the past
five years, causing damage, and loss to complainant in
excess of $3,000. An injunction and an accounting of
profits were prayed. Upon this bill, a demurrer filed by
the Hanover Company, and affidavits presented by both
parties, the District Court' granted a temporary injunction
restraining the use of the words "Tea Rose" as a trademark for flour, without territorial restriction. The Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed this
decree, and remanded the cause to the District Court for
further' proceedings not inconsistent with its opinion.
Hanover Star Milling Co. v. Allen & Wheeler Co:, 208
Fed. Rep. 513. An appeal was taken to this court, and
a writ of certiorari was subsequently granted. The appeal
must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and the case
will be disposed of under the writ of certiorari.
No question is raised respecting the propriety of passing
upon the questions at issue on a review of decisions rendered upon applications for temporary injunction. Both
District Courts granted such injunctions, and both Circuit Courts of Appeals reversed upon grounds that went
to the merits., These courts differed upon fundamental
questions, anfd it was because of this that the writs of
certiorari were allowed, the situation being such that it
was deemed proper to allow them before final decrees

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were made, notwithstanding the general rule to the contrary. American Const. Co. v. Jacksonville Ry., 148 U. S.
372, 378, 384; The Three Friends, 166 U. S. 1, 49; The
Conqueror, 166 U. S. 110, 113; Denver v. N. Y. Trust Co.,
229 U. S.123, 133.
In both cases it was shown without dispute that the
firm of Allen & Wheeler adopted and used the words "Tea
Rose" as a trade-mark for one kind or quality of flour'
manufactured by it as early as the year 1872, and continued that use until the year 1904, when the Allen &
Wheeler Company was incorporated and took over the
mills, machinery, stock, trade-mark, and good-will of the
firm and succeeded to its business. But there is nothing
to show the extent of such use or the markets reached by
it, except that in the year 1872 Allen & Wheleer sold
three lots of 25 barrels each to a firm in Cincinnati, Ohio,
and one lot of 100 barrels to a firm in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; that. in the early! 70's another firm in Pittsburgh
was a customer for this brand; and that in the later 70's
a firm inBoston, Massachusetts, was a customer for the
same brand. As to the Allen & Wheeler Co., there are
affidavits stating in general terms that since its incorporation in 1904, and "continuously down to the present
time," the "company has used the brand "Tea Rose" for
flour; but there is a remarkable absence of particular statements as to time, place, or circumstances; in short, no
showing whatever as to the extent of the use or the markets
reached. There 'is nothing to show that the Allen &
Wheeler "Tea Rose" flour has been even advertised in
Alabama or the adjoining States, and there is clear and
undisputed proof that it'has not been sold or offered for
sale or known or heard of by the trade in Alabama, Mississippi, or Georgia. In No. 30, there is uncontradicted
proof, that the Allen & Wheeler Co. is selling flour in
Alabama and Georgia, but under the brands "Eldean
Patent" and "Trojan Special."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

In both suits, the Hanover Star Milling Company introduced affidavits fairly showing that shortly after its
incorporation in the year 1885 it adopted for one of its
brands of flour the name "Tea Rose," and adopted for
the package or container, whether sack or barrel, a label
bearing the name "Tea Rose" and the design already
referred to; and. that this trade-mark was adopted and
used in good faith without knowledge or notice that the
name "Tea Rose" had been adopted or used by the Allen
& Wheelerfirm, or by anybody else. ]ti 1904 the Hanover
Company began and has since prosecuted a vigorous
and expensive campaign of advertising its Tea Rose flour,
covering the whole of the State of Alabama, and parts of
Mississippi, Georgia, and Florida, employing many ingenious and interesting devices that are detailed in the
proofs, with the result that at the commencement of the
litigation its sales of' Tea Rose flour in these markets
amounted to more than $150,000 a year, the Hanover
Star Milling Company has come to be known as the Tea
Rose mill, the repiltation of the mill is bound up with the
reputation of Tea Rose flour, and "Tea Rose" in the flour
trade in the territory referred to means flour of the Han-,
over Company's manufacture. There is nothing to show
any present or former competition in Tea Rose flour
between the latter company and the Allen & Wheeler
firm or co0-poration, or that either party has ever advertised that brand of flour in territory covered by the activities of the other.
Metcalf's purchases '6f competing Tea Rose flour, which
gave rise to the suit brought by the Hanover Company
against him, were made from the Steeleville Milling Company, an Illinois corporation, which appears to have
adopted the name and design of a tea rose for flour in the
year 1895.
It should b6 added that, so far as appears,- none of the
parties here concerned has registered the trade-mark

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.

240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under any act of Congress or under the law of any State.
Nor does it appear that in any of the States in question
there exists any peculiar local rule, arising from statute or
decision. Hence, the cases must be decided according to
common-law principles of general application.
Interesting and'important questions are raised concerning the territorial extent of trade-mark rights. In
behalf of the Hanover Company it is, in effect, insisted:
(a) that the failure of the Allen & Wheeler Company and
its predecessors to enter the south-eastern territory with
-their Tea Rose flour, and the fact that such flour has beenand is wholly unknown thereunder that name, disentitle
it to interfere with the Hanover Company's trade established in good faith in that territory under the same mark;
(b) that the same considerations entitle Hanover to affirmative trade-mark rights of its own, enforceable against the
Steeleville Company and everybody else over whom it
has priority in that territory; and (c) that Hanover is
entitled to relief against Steeleville and against Metcalf
as its agent, upon the ground of unfair competitior in
trade regardless of the trade-mark right. An affirmative
answer to the first proposition will decide the Allen &
Wheeler case (No. 30) in favor of Hanover, and an affirmative answer to the third proposition will decide the Metcalf case (No. 23) in favor of Hanover, irrespective of.
the disposition that might be, made of the second proposition. In view of possible consequences to the rights of
parties not before the court, it is desirable to limit the
range of our decision as much as practicable, especially
as the proofs now before us are incomplete and in some
respects unsatisfactory.
It will be'convenient to dispose first of No. 30. Here the
'bill is rested upon' alleged trade-mark infringement, pure
and simple, and no question of unfair competition is involved. The decision of the Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit in favor of the Hanover Company and

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

against the Allen & Wheeler Company was rested upon
the ground that although the adoption, of the Tea Rose
mark by the latter antedated that of the Hanover Company, its only trade, so far as shown; was in territory north
of the Ohio River, while the Hanover Company 'had
adopted "Tea Rose" as its mark in perfect good faith,
with no knowledge th'at anybody else was using or had
used those words in such a connection, and during many
years it had built up and extended its trade in the southeastern territory, comprising Georgia, Florida, Alabama,
and Mississippi, so that in the flour trade in-that territory
the mark "Tea Rose" had come to mean the Hanover
Company's flour, and nothing else. The court held in
effect that the right to protection in the exclusive use of a
trade-mark' extends only to. those markets where the
trader's goods have become known and identified by his
use of the mark; and because of the non-occupancy by the
Allen & Wheeler Qompany of the southeastern markets it
had no ground for relief in equity. Let us test this by
reference to general principles.
The redress that is accorded in trade-mark cases is based
upon the party's right to be protected in the good-will of a
trade or business. The primary and proper function of a
trade-mark is to identify the origin or ownership of the
article to which it is affixed. Where a party has been in
the habit of labeling his goods with a distinctive mark, so
that purchasers recognize goods thus marked as being of
his produdtion, others are debarred from applying the
same mark to goods of the same description, because to
do so, would in effect represent their _goods to be of his
production and would tend to deprive him of the profit.
he might make through the sale of the goods which the'
purchaser intended to buy. Courts affdrd redress or relief
uron the ground that a party has a valuable interest in the
good-will of his trade 'or business, and in the trade-marks
adopted to maintain and extend it. The essence of the

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

wrong consists in the sale of the goods of one manufacturer or vendor for those of another. Canal Co. v. Clark,
13 Wall. 311, 322; McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245, 251;
Manufacturing Co. v. Trainer, 101 U. S. 51, 53; Menendez
v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514, 520; Lawrence Mfg. Co. v. Tennessee
Mfg. Co., 138 U. S. 537, 546.
This essential element is the same in trade-mark cases
as -incases of unfair competition unaccompanied with
trade-mark infringement... In fact, the Common law of
trade-marks is but a 'part of the broader law of unfair
competition. Elgin Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179
U. S. 665, 674; G. & C. Merriam Co. v. Saalfield, 198 Fed.
Rep. 369, 372; Cohen v. Nagle, 190 Massachusetts, 4, 8, 15;
5 A. & E. Ann. Cas. 553, 555, 558.
Common-law trade-marks, and the right to their exchisive use, are of course to be classed among property
rights, Trade-mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 92, 93; but only in
the tense that a man's Tight to the continued enjoyment
of his trade reputation and the good-will that flows from
it, free from unwarranted interference by others, is a
property right, for the protection of which a trade-mark
is an instrumentality. As was said in the same case (p. 94),
the right grows out of use, not mere adoption. In the
English courts it often has been said that there is no prop,erty whatever in a trade-mark, as such. Per Ld. Langdale,
M. R., in Perryv. Truefitt, 6 Beav. 73; per Vice Chancellor
Sir Wm.Page Wood (afterwards Ld. Hatherly), in Collins Co. v. Brown,'3 Kay & J. 423, 426; 3 Jur. N. S. 930;
per Ld. Herschell in Reddaway v. Banham, A. C. 1896, 199,
209. But. since in the same cases the courts recognized
the right of the party to the exclusive use of marks adopted'
to indicate goods of his manufacture, upon the ground that
A man is not to sell his own goods under the pretense
that they are the goods of another man; he cannot be permitted to practise such -a deception, nor to use the means
-which contribute to that end. He cannot therefore be

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
-

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

allowed to use names, marks, letters, or other indicia, by
which he may induce purchasers to believe,, that the goods
which he is selling are the manufacture of another person"
(6 Beav. 73); it is plain that in denying the right of property in a trade-mark it was intended only to deny such
property, right except as appurtenant' to an established
business or trade in connection with which the mark is
used. This is evident from the.expressions used in these
and other English cases. Thus, in Ainsworth v. Walmsley,
L. R. 1 Eq. Cas. 518, 524, Vice Chancellor Sir Win. Page
Wood said: "This court has takenupon itself to protect a'
man in the use of a certain trade-mark as applied to ,a
particular description of article. He has no property in
\that mark per se, any more than in any other fanciful
denomination he may assume for his, own private use,
otherwise than with reference to his trade. If he does not
carry on a trade in iron, but carries o, a trade in linen, and
stamps a lion on his linen, another person may stamp a
lion on iron; but when he has appropriated a mark to a
particular species -of goods, and caused his goods to circulate with this mark upon them, the court has said that
no one shall be at liberty to defraud that man by using
that mark, and passing off 'goods of his manufacture as
being the goods of the owner of that mark."
In short, the trade-mark is treated as merely a protection for the good-will, and not the subject of property
except in connection with an existing business. The same
rule prevails generally in this cointry, and is recognized
in the decisions of this court already cited. See also
Apollinaris Co. v. Scherer, 27 Fed. Rep. 18, 20; Levy v.
Waitt, 61 Fed. Rep. 1008, 1011; Macmahan Co. v. Denver
Mfg. Co., 113 Fed. Rep. 468, 471, 475; Congress Spring Co.
v. High Rock Congress Spring Co., 57 Barb. 526, 551;
Weston v.Ketcham, 51 How. Pr. 455, 456; Candee v. Deere,
'54 Illinois, 439, 457" Avery & Sons v. Meikle, 81 Kentucky,
73, 86.

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Expressions are found in many of the cases to the effect
that the exclusive right to the use of a trade-mark is
founded on priority of appropriation. Thus, in'Canal Co.
v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 323, reference is made to "the first
appropriator"; in McLean v.,Fleming, 96 U. S. 245, 251,
to" the person who first adopted the stamp"; in Manufacturing Co. v. Trainer,.101 U. S. 51, 53, the expression is
"any symbol or device, not previously appropriated,
which will distinguish," etc. But these expressions are
to'be understood in their application to the facts of the
cases decided. In the ordinary case of parties competing
under the same mark in the same market, it is correct to
say that prior appropriation settles the question. But
where two parties independently are employing the same
mark upon goods of the same class, but in separate markets
wholly remote the one from the other, the question of prior
appropriation is legally insignificant, unless at least it
appear that the second adopter has selected the mark
with some design inimical to the interests of the first user,
such as to take the benefit of the reputation of his goods,
to forestall the extension of his trade, or the like.
Of course, if the symbol or device is already in general
use, employed in such a manner that its adoption as an
index of source or origin would only produce confusion
and mislead the public, it is not susceptible of adoption as
a trade-mark. Such" a case was Columbia Mill Co. v.
Alcorn, 150 U. S. 460, 464, affirming 40 Fed. Rep. 6Z6,
where it appeared that before complainant's adoption of
the disputed word as a brand for its flour the same word
Lwas used for the like purpose by numerous mills in different parts of the country.
That property in a trade-mark is not limited in its enjoyment by territorial bounds, but may be asserted and
protected wherever the law affords a remedy for wrongs,
is true in a limited sense. Into whatever markets the use
of a trade-mark has extended, or its meaning has become

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opimon of the Court.

240 U. S.

known, there will the manufacturer or trader whose trade
is pirated by an infringing use, be entitled to protection
and redress. But this is not to say that the proprietor of a
trade-mark, good in the markets where it has been employed, can monopolize markets that his trade has never
reached and where the mark signifies not his, goods but
those of another. We agree with the court below (208
Fed. Rep. 519) that 'Since it is the: trade, and not the
mark, that is to be protected, a trade-mark acknowl'edges no territorial boundaries of municipalities or states
or nations, but extends to every market where the trader's
goods have become known and identified by his use of the
mark. But the mark, of itself, cannot travel to markets
where there is no article to wear the badge and no trader
to offer the article."
To say that a trade-mark right is"not limited in its enjoyment by territorial bounds, is inconsistent with saying
that it extends as far as the sovereignty in which it has
been enjoyed. If the territorial bounds of sovereignty
do not limit, how ban they enlarge.such a right? And if'"
the mere adoption' and use of a trade-mark in a limited
market shall (without statute) create an exclusive ownership of the mark throughout the bounds of the sovereignty,
the question at once. arises, "What sovereignty?" So far
as the proofs disclose, the Allen & Wheeler mark has not
been used at all, is not-known at all in a market sense,
within the sovereignty of Alabama, or the adjacent States,'
where the controversy with the Hanover Star Milling
Company arose. And so far as the controversy concerns
intrastate distribution as distinguished from interstate
trade, the subject isnot within the sovereign powers of
the United States. Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S.82, 93.
We are referred to an expression contained in the
opinion of this court in Kidd v. Johnson,, 100 U. S.617,
619: "'The right to use the trade-mark is not limited to
any place, city, or State, and, therefore, must be deemed

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U. S.

417

Opinion of'the Court.

to extend everywhere." But a reference to the facts of
the case, and the context, shows that, the language was
not used in the sense attributed to it in the argument.
The question presented for decision related to the ownership of a trade-mark used by complainants (Johnson &
Co.) on packages and barrels containing whiskey, manufactured and sold by them in Cincinnati, and this turned
in part upon the force to be given to a written transfer
executed by one Pike and delivered to complainant's
predecessors in business in. connection with a sale of the
distillery and its appurtenances; which were Pike's individual property. Kidd, the defendant, claimed the
right to use the same mark as surviving partner of a
firm of which Pike had been a member. The court,
Spdaking by Mr. Justice Field, said (p. 619): "That transfer was plainly designed to confer whatever right Pike
possessed. It, in terms, extends the use of the trademark to Mills, Johnson & Co. and their successors. Such
use, to be of any value, 'must necessarily be exclusive. If
others .also could use it, the trade-mark would be of no
service in distinguishing the whiskey of the manufacture
in Cincinnati; and thus the company would lose all the
benefit arising from the reputation the whiskey there
manufactured had acquired in the market. The right to
use the trade-mark is not limited to any place, city, or
State, and, therefore, must be deemed to extend everywhere." This does not import that the trade-mark right
assigned was greater in extent than the trade in which it
was used. The record in the case showed that complainant's trade had been extended to New Orleans, and the
controversy arose out of sales made there by defendants
as licensees of Kidd. It was admitted in the answer that
they had sold whiskey in competition with that of complainants at New Orleans, and under the same trademark, and the case was by stipulation treated asa test
case to settle whether Johnson & Co. or Kidd had 'the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

exclusive right, or whether they had a joint right, to the
use of the mark.
We are also referred to Derringerv. Plate, 29 California,
292, 295, in which it was said by the court: "The manufacturer at Philadelphia who has adopted and uses a trademark, has the same right of property in it at New York
or San Francisco that he has at his place of manufacture."
In that case plaintiff averred that he was a resident of
Philadelphia, and upwards of thirty years before the
action invented a pistol and adopted as a trade-mark for
it the words "Derringer, Philadel.," which was and ever
since had been his trade-mark, and which he had caused
to be stamped on the breech of all pistols manufactured
and sold by him; and that the defendant since 1858 had
been engaged in the manufacture of pistols at San Francisco similar to plaintiff's, on the breech of which he had
stamped plaintiff's trade-mark, etc. The report of the
case shows (p. 294) that the only question presented was
whether the California statute of 1863 concerning trademarks had repealed or abrogated the remedies afforded
by the common law in trade-mark cases. This was answered in the negative, and in the course of the reasoning
the court said, p. 295: "The right is not limited in its
enjoyment by territorial bounds, but, subject only to
such statutory regulations as may be properly made concerning the use and enjoyment of other property, or the
evidences of title to the same, the proprietor may assert
and maintain his property right wherever the common
law affords remedies for wrongs;" continuing with what
we have first quoted. Although not expressly stated,
it is implicit in the report that plaintiff's pistols were on
the market in San Francisco, and his trade-mark known
there and imitated by defendant for that very reason.
It was such a mark as could not be accidentally hit upon.
It results from the general principles thus fai discussed
that trade-mark rights, like others that rest in user, may

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be lost by abandonment, non-user, lacbes, or acquiescence.'
Abandonment, in the strict sense, rests upon an intent to
abandon; and we have no purpose to qualify the authority
of Saxlehner v. Eisner, 179 U. S. 19, 31, to that effect.
As to laches and acquiescence, it has been 'repeatedly
held, in cases where defendants aoted fraudulently or
with knowledge of plaintiffs' rights, that relief by injunction would be accorded although an accounting of profitS
should be denied. McLean v. Fleming,' 96 U. S. 245,. 257;
Menendez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514, 523; Saxlehner v. Eisner,
179 U. S. 19, 39. So much must be regarded as settled.
But cases differ according to their circumstances, and
neither of those cited is in point with the present. Allowing to the Allen & Wheeler firm and corporation the
utmost that, the proofs disclose in their favor, they have
confined their use Of the "Tea Rose" trade-mark to a
limited territory, leaving the south-eastern States untouched. Even if they did not know-and it does. not
appear that they did know-that the Hanover Company
was doing so, -they must be held to have taken the risk
that some innocent party might, during their forty years
of inactivity, hit upon the same mark and expend money
and effort in building up ,a trade in flour under it. if,
during the long period that has elapsed since the last
specified sale of Allen & Wheeler "Tea Rose"-this was
"in the later 70's "-that flour has been sold in other parts
of the United States, excluding the south-eastern States,
no clearer evidence of abandonment by non-user of trademark rights in the latter field could reasonably be asked
for. And when it appears, as it does, that the Hanover
Company in good faith and without notice of the Allen &
Wheeler mark has expended much money and effort 'in
building up its trade in the south-eastern market, so that
'"tea Rose" there means Hanover Company's flour and
nothing else, the Allen & Wheeler Company is estopped to
assert trade-mark infringement as to that territory.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

The extent and character of that territory, and its remoteness from that in which the Allen & Wheeler mark
is known, are circumstances to be considered. Alabama
aJone-to say nothing of -the other States in question,has an area of over 50,000 square miles, and by the census
of 1910 contained a population of more than 2,000,000.
Its most northerly point is more than 250 miles south of
Cincinnati, which is the nearest point at which sales of
Allen & Wheeler "Tea Rose" are shown to have been
made, and these at a time antedating by approximately
forty years the commencement of the present controversy.
We are not dealing with a case where the junior appropriator of a trade-mark is occupying territory that would
probably be reached by the prior user .in the natural expansion of his trade, and need pass -no judgment upon
such a case. Under the circumstances that are here presented, to permit the Allen & Wheeler Company to use
the mark in Alabama, to the exclusion of the Hanover
Company, wbuld take the trade and goodwill of the latter
company-built up at much expense and without notice
of the former's rights-and confer it upon the former, to
the complete perversion of the proper theory of trademark rights.
The case is peculiar in its facts; and we have found
none precisely like it. The recent case of Rectanus Co. v.
United Drug Co. (C. C. A. 6th), 227 Fed. Rep. 545, 549,
553, is closely analogous.
We come now to No. 23. The Court of Appeals (204
Fed. Rep. 211) denied relief to the Hanover Company
against Metcalf under the head of trade-mark infringement partly upon the ground that Allen & Wheeler were
the first appropriators of the mark, and that it had been
continuously used by that firm and its successor down to
the time of the suit, but principally upon the ground that,
irrespective of whether this use was so general or continuous as to exclude other appropriation, the evidence

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

showed a use of the same brand by the Steeleville Company
commencing in the year 1895 and. carried on in the States
of Illinois, Tennessee, Indiana, Arkansas and Mississippi,
with occasional shipments into Alabama; a use so extensive and continuous as to exclude the claim of the Hanover Company to either first appropriation or exclusive
use in any of the territory from which it sought to,expel
Metcalf; and that "the Steeleville Milling Company's
first use and its extensive and continuous use established
by the evidence in the territory of its selection gave it
the unqualified right to extend unhampered its trade in
flour under the Tea Rose brand into any part of the
United States, and that too without incurring the legal
odium of unfair competition." Relief under the head of
unfair competition was denied upon the ground that the
Hanover ,Company had not clearly shown that it had
established by prior adoption the exclusive right to dress
its goods in the manner claimed.
Upon the question of trade-mark rights as between the
Hanover and the Steeleville companies (leaving Allen &
Wheeler out of the question), the proofs are somewhat
conflicting. There is evidence that Hanover's use of the
Tea Rose brand antedated the year 1893, and probably
began as early as 1886. The extent and particulars
of such use, ptior to the year 1903, are not made to appear.
On the other hand, Steeleville 'appears to have adopted
the brand in the year 1895, and used it in trade in Illinois,
Tennessee, Mississippi, Louisiana, and- Arkansas; the
extent and particulars of the use not being shown. Sharp
competition appears to have been carried on between the
two companies in selling flour under the Tea Rose brand
at Meridian, Mississippi, in the years 1903 to 1905, with
the result that the Hanover Company, claiming that its
use of thb mark for flour had antedated that of the Steeleville Company, succeeded in obtaining a favorable decision in an informal arbitration by officials of the Millers

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

National Federation; and for this or some other reason
Steeleville appears to have retired and left the Hanover
Company in complete control of the Meridian market.
,Aside from the business done by the Steeleville Company
at Meridian, there is no proof of business done by it in
the south-eastern States, except that it made an isolated
sale of Tea Rose flour to a merchant at Whistler, Alabama, in the year 1899, the quantity not stated, and tw9
isolated sales, involving a small quantity in each case,
one to a retailer in Tupelo, Mississippi, in the year 1910,
the other to a retailer in West Point, Mississippi, in January, 1912.
As we regard the proofs, they do not sustain the view
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
either as to first use or as to extensive, continuous, or
exclusive use of the Tea Rose brand by the Steeleville
Company, and there is nothing in the history of the use of
the brand in the disputed territory to deprive the Hanover
Company of its right to be protected at least against
unfair competition at the hands of the Steeleville Company
or of Metcalf as its representative.
That there was such unfair competition, commenced
by Metcalf shortly before the bringing of the suit, the
proofs clearly show. Repeating that since the year 1904
the Hanover Company had extensively advertised its
Tea Rose floUr throughout the State of Alabama and
parts of Mississippi, Georgia, and Florida, with the result
that its sales of that flour in those markets amounted
to more than $150,000 a year, while the Hanover Star
Milling Company had come to be known as the Tea
Rose mill, and the words "Tea Rose" in the flour trade
in that territory meant flour of the Hanover Company's
manufacture and nothing else, and that, except for isolated
sales in Mississippi in 1910. and 1912, already mentioned,
no Te6 Rose flour other than that of the Hanover Company had been sold in that territory for a number of

HANOVER MILLING CO. v.* METCALF.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

'years, it further should be stated that Hanover Tea Rose
was distributed in Butler County and adjoining counties
in Alabama by the McMullan Grocery Company, whose
place of business was at Greenville. They- had built up
a large trade for this flour in Butler County and the neighboring counties of Conecuh, Covington, Lowndes, and
Crenshaw. The McMullan Company had the exclusive
sale of the Hanover Company's Tea Rose flour, so that
Metcalf, who likewise did business at Greenville, was
unable to procure it for distribution to his customers.
A short time before the suit was commenced, however, he
announced-to the public and the trade in Butler County
that he had secured Tea Rose flour, and on receiving 4
consignment from the Steeleville Company, which was
labeled-" Tea Rose" and put up in packages closely resembling those used by the Hanover Company-so closely
that, according to the undisputed evidence,, they are
"calculated to and do in fact deceive the ordinary and
casual purchaser of flour into the belief that he is purchasing the article of that' name manufatured by the
said Hanover Star Milling Company "-Metcalf put
large banners on his mules and dray advertising to the
public that he had received a shipment of Tea Rose flour,
and that it was "Steeleville Milling Company's Tea Rose
flour, best quality." Metcalf, and his traveling salesman
who marketed the greater part of this consignment, and
several parties who purchased it in lots of from one to ten
barrels, deposed that it was not sold under a representation that it was manufactured by the Hanover Company,
but, on the contrary, that it was Tea Rose'flour manufactured by the Steeleville Milling Company. But Metcalf's purpose to take advantage of the reputation of the
Hanover CompaDy's Tea Rose flour is so manifest, and
the tendency of the similarity of the brand and accompanying design, and of the make-up of the packages, to
mislead ultimate consumers is so evident, that it seems to

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
HOLAMES,

J., concurring.

240 U. S.

us a case of unfair competition is made out. The circumstances strongly indicate a fraudulent intent to palm off
the Steeleville Tea Rose flour upon customers as being

the same as the Tea Rose flour made by complainant,
the reputation of which is shown to be so well established.
The mere substitution of "Steeleville" in the place of
"Hanover" on the labels is not convincing either that
the intent is innocent or that the result will be innocuous,
since it is. accompanied' with the words "Tea Rose,"
(shown to have acquired a secondary meaning), and with
the distinctive wrapping, both indicative in that market
of complainant's flour.

Complainant is thus shown to

be entitled to an injunction against Metcalf, irrespective
of its claim to affirmative trade-mark rights in that territory. Coats v. Merrick Thread Co., 149 U. S. 562, 566;
Elgin Nat'l Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179 U. S.
665, 674. Adjudication of the latter claim may be made,
if necessary, upon final hearing,, when the proofs will
presumably be more complete than they now are.
It results that the decree under review in No. 23 should
be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion, and that the decree
in No. 30 should be affirmed.
Decree in No. 23 reversed.
Appeal in No. 30 dismissed.
Decree in No. 30 affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

concurring.

I am disposed to agree that the .decree dismissing the
bill of the Hanover Star Milling Company should be
reversed and that the decree denying a preliminary injunction to the Allen and Wheeler Company should be
affirmed, and I agree in the main with the reasoning of
the court, so far as it goes. But I think it necessary to go
farther even on the assumption that we are dealing with

HANOVER MILLING CO. v. METCALF.
240 .U. S.

HOLMES, J., concurring.

the question of trade-marks in the several States only so
far as commerce among the States is not concerned. The
question before us, on that assumption, is a question of
state law, since the rights that we are considering are
conferred by the sovereignty of the State in which they
are acquired. This seems to be too obvious to need the
citation of authority, but it is a necessary corollary of the
Trade Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82. Those cases decided
that Congress cannot deal with trade-marks as used in
commerce wholly between citizens of the same State. It
follows that the States can deal with them, as in fact
they sometimes do by statute, Mass. Rev. Laws, c. 72,
§§ 2, 3, and when not by statute by their common law.
As the common law of the several States has the same
origin for the most part and as their law concerning trademarks and unfair competition is the same in its general
features, it is natural and very generally correct to say
that trade-marks acknowledge no territorial limits. But
it never,should be forgotten, and in .this case it is important
to remember, that when a trade-mark started in one State
is recognized in another it is by the authority of 4 new
sovereignty that gives its sanction to the right. The new
sovereignty is not a passive figurehead. It creates the
right within its jurisdiction, and what it creates it may
condition, as by requiring the mark to be recorded, or it
may deny. The question then is what is the common law
of Alabama in cases like these. It appears to me that if a
mark previously unknown in that State has been used and
given a reputation there, the State well may say that those
who have spent their money innocently in giving it its
local value are not to be defeated by proof that others
have used the mark earlier in another jurisdiction more or
less remote. Until I am compelled to adopt a different
view I shall assume that that is the common law of the
State. It appears to me that the foundation of the right
as stated by the court requires that conclusion. See

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
HOLMES, J., concurring.

240 U. S.

further Chadwick v. Covell, 151 Massachusetts, 190, 193,
194. Those who have used the mark within the State
are those who will be defrauded if another can come in
and reap the reward of their efforts on the strength of a
use elsewhere over which Alabama has no control.
I think state lines, speaking always of matters outside
the authority of Congress, are important in another way.
I do not believe that a trade-mark established in Chicago
could be used by a competitor in some other part of Illinois on the ground that it was not known there. I
think that if it is good in one part -of the State it is good
in all. But when it seeks to pass state lines it may find
itself limited by what has been done under the sanction
of a power co6rdinate with that of Illinois and paramount over the territory concerned. If this view be
adopted we get rid of all questions of penumbra, of shadowy marches where it is difficult to decide whether the
business extends to them. We have sharp lines drawn
upon the fundamental consideration of the jurisdiction
originating the right. In most cases the change of jurisdiction will not be important because the new law will
take up and apply the same principles as the old, but when,
as here, justice to its own people requires a State to set a
limit, it may do so, and this court cannot pronounce its
action wrong.

