OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for the United States.

240 U. S.

PHILADELPHIA AND READING RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, AND
ALLENTOWN PORTLAND CEMENT COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 440. Argued October 18, 19, 1915.-Decided February 28, 1916.
Where, as in this case, no undue discrimination against the shipper or
the locality of its plant is found, and tl~e community declared to
be prejudiced by the established conditions has not complained and
is not a party to the proceeding, and the rate complained of is intrinsically'reasonable, the mere fact that other carriers have adopted a
lower schedule from the shipper's district to points other than the
one designated, affords no foundation for a finding by the Interstate
Commerce Commission that such rate is unreasonable and erroneous
as matter of law.
As the order of the Commission in this case is not supported by the
ascertained facts its enforcement should be enjoined.
219 Fed. Rep. 988, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission relating to railway
rates, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry S. Drinker, Jr., for appellant.
Mr. Charles W. Needham for the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., for respondent Allentown
Cement Company.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General' Underwood and Mr.
Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, for the United States submitted:

PHILA. & READING RY. v. UNITED STATES.
240 U. S.

335

Argument for the United States.

The practice complained of subjected Jersey City to
undue and unreasonable prejudice an4 disadvantage,
Section 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce forbids discrimination of any kind whatsoever. Houston & Tex.
Ry: v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, 356; Southern Ry. v.
United States, 204 Fed. Rep. 465; Int. Com. Comm. v.
Louis. & Nash. R. R., 118 Fed. Rep. 613.
IIt is within the power of the Commission to
protect
the consuming point from discrimination as well as the
locality where the traffic originates. Tex. & Pac. Ry. v.
Int. Corn. Comm., 162 U. S.'184, 220.
What is undue 'r unreasonable preference or advantage
is a question not of law but of fact. Pennsylvania Co. v.
United States, 236 U. S. 351, 361; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v.
United States, 162 U. S. 197, 219; Int. Com. Comm. v. Alabama Midland Ry., 168 U. S. 144, 170.
The determination of this question of fact is for the
Commission, and its findings are conclusive; United
States v. Louis. -&Nash. R. R., 235 U. S. 314, 320.
This case having been submitted on" bill and answer,
the preferences and discrimination alleged in the answer
of the Commission must be taken as true. Int. Com.
Comm. v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 U. S. 452, 475; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Chi. & Alton R. R., 215 U. S. 479; Int. Com.
Comm. v. Chi., R. I. & Pac. Ry., 218 U. S. 88.
Appellant having voluntarily, in its traffic agreements
with the other carriers, established the same relative
rates from all points in the Lehigh district to consuming
points other than Jersey City, cannot, if conditions are the
same, arbitrarily decline to make the same arrangement
with respect to Jersey City. Phila. & Reading Ry. v.
United States, 219 Fed. Rep. 988; Darling v. Balt. &.
Ohio R. R., 15 L C. C. 79, 87; Spokane v. Nor. Pac. Ry.,
211. C. C. 400, 424.
The Commission, after consideration of evidence, not
set out in the record but adduced at the hearing before

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

it, found, it must be presumed, that conditions existing
at Jersey City were not so different from those existing
at other consuming points as to justify different treatment. There is nothing in the record to show the absence
of substantial evidence sppporting these findings of fact,
so they are "conclusively correct in -case of judicial review." United States v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 235 U. S.
314.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the court.
This appeal brings up a final decree of the United States
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania, which
dismissed the railway's original bill presented to secure
annulment of an order by the Interstate Commerce Commission commanding it and other carriers to desist from
subjecting Jersey City to undue prejudice and disadvantage in respect of rates on Portland cement from the
"Lehigh District" in Pennsylvania. 219 Fed. Rep. 988.
Appellant maintains that when considered in connection with its report, the Commission's order is plainly
erroneous as matter of law because wholly unsupported
by the ascertained facts. Interstate Com. Comm. v. Louis.
& Nash. R. R., 227 U. S. 88, 91; FloridaEast Coast Line v.
United States, 234 U. S. 167, 185.
In November, 1912, the Allentown Portland Cement
Company filed a petition before the Interstate Commerce
Commission against the Philadelphia & Reading Railway
Company, Central Railroad Company of New Jersey,
Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Company,
Erie Railroad Company, and Pennsylvania Railroad
Company, wherein it alleged the Philadelphia & Reading
operates the only line reaching its plant at Evansville,
Pa., and in connection with other defendants transports
cement therefrom to many points, including Jersey City;

PHILA. & READING RY. v. UNITED STATES. 337
240 U.

S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the published rate of $1.35 per ton charged and collected for transportation to the latter place is unlawful
and forbidden by §§ 1 and 3 of the Act to Regulate Commerce. It prayed for "an order declaring the rates aforesaid to be unjust and unreasonable and that the same discriminate against complainant and the locality wherein is
located its plant or factory aforesaid, and that the Commission will also enter an order fixing the reasonable and just
rates for the transportation of Portland Cement from its
factory or plant at Evansville, over the lines of the defendants." After hearing, a report and order were made
by the Commission; upon rehearing the original findings
were approved in an additional report and a supplemental
order, not substantially different-from the first one, was
passed. The material portions of these reports follow:
"The case involves the question of the reasonableness
and justness of defendants' rate for the transportation
of cement in carloads from Evansville, Pa., to, Jersey
City, N. J. Evansville is reached only by the Philadel-,
phia & Reading Railway. That carrier transports the
cement in question from Evansville to Allentown, where
it delivers it to one of numerous connections which either
transports it to Jersey City or in turn delivers it to other
carriers for final delivery 'at Jersey City. The rate via
these various routes is $1.35. Certain of the carriers
which receive this Evansville cement from, the'Philadelphia & Reading at Allentown also serve other mills in
the same general vicinity as Allentown, namely, the
Lehigh district, either directly or through connections.
The rate from these other mills to Jersey City is 80 cents.
The Philadelphia & Reading does not participate in the
80-cent rate from any mill in the district.," 31 I. C. C. 277.
"Evansville is situated in the Lehigh district and is
one of numerous cement mills in that district located
within a radius of perhaps 20 miles of each other. None
of, the other mills, however, are -reached by the Phiiadel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

phia & Reading, they being served by the Central Railroad
of New Jersey or Lehigh :Valley direct or 'by short lines
of railway which connect with those carriers at distances
of from 1 to 16 miles from their junction points. While
the rate to Jersey City is thus $1.35 from Evansville on
the Philadelphia & Reading the rate to Jersey City from
these competing mills on other lines is 80 cents.
On shipments to Jersey.City for trans-shipment by water
to points in the southeast, such as Charleston and Savannah, the-rate is 80 cents from Evansville, the same as it
is from these other mills; and this equality of Evansville
with the other mills is maintained on traffic to Philadelphia, Baltimore, New York City, and New England.
In Other words, the rate is the same from Evansville as
from other mills in the Lehigh district to all points east,
except on, traffic to Jersey City for local consumption.
"The 80-cent rate to Jersey City locally from the other
mills is used in connection with shipments destined to
New York, that rate plus the trucking charge to all points
south of Ninetieth street totaling less than the $1.40 rate
to New York proper plus the trucking charge to the
same point, the result being that complainant, who must
use the latter rate, is effectively barred from competition
in that part of the city located south of Forty-third street;
which is the greatest cement consuming district. North
of Ninetieth street complainant can compete with the
other mills because of their greater expense in the longer
truck haul from Jersey City. It will also necessarily be
apparent that complainant can not sell any cement in
Jersey City for local consumption in competition with
these other mills which have the 80-cent rate."
"It can not be questioned that complainant is laboring
under a prohibitory disadvantage in marketing its product
in Jersey City under the present rate in competition with
other mills in the same district. While it is true that the
Philadelphia & Reading does not have any hand in the

PHILA. & READING RY. v. UNITED STATES. 339
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

establishment of the 80-cent rate from these other mills,
as it can not participate in that -traffic because it does
not serve them, it is also true that it is a party to tariffs
under which cement may be purchased as cheaply at,
Evansville as at neighboring mills in the, Lehigh district
by dealers in and consumers of cement at practically
all points of importance east of that district, with the
single exception of Jersey City. Why Jersey City should
be singled out by that carrier as the one exception to this
equalization of rates as between competing mills in the
same district has not been satisfactorily shown by this
record.

We are therefore of opinion, and find, that in

maintaining or participating in rates on cement in carloads to other eastern destinations, such as Baltimore,
Philadelphia, New York, and New England points, which
are not higher from Evansvill6 than the contemporaneous
rates which it maintains or participates in from other mills
in the Lehigh district, while refusing contemporaneously
to participate in the same relative adjustment from Evansville to Jersey City, the Philadelphia .& Reading, as well

as the other carriers defendant, are subjecting Jersey City
and its traffic to an undue prejudice and disadvantage,
from which an order will be entered to cease and desist."
27 I. C. C. 448.
Purporting to base its action on the foregoing findings,
the Commission directed:
"That the above-named defendants; according as
their various lines or routes may run, be, and- they are
hereby, notified and required, on or before October 1,
1914, to cease and desist from said undue and unreasonable prejudices and disadvantages."
"That said defendants, according as their various lines
or routes may run, be, and they are hereby notified and
required to establish on or before October 1, 1914, upon
statutory notice to the Interstate Commerce Commission
and to the general public by filing and posting in the man-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

ner prescribed in section 6 of the act to regulate commerce,
and for a period of two years after said October 1, 1914,
to maintain and apply to said transportation rates which
will prevent and avoid the aforesaid undue and unreasonable prejudices and disadvantages."
Undue discrimination against itself or the locality of its
plant, as alleged by the cement company, was not found;
the community declared to be prejudiced by established
conditions had offered no complaint and was not party
to the proceedings. Neither the $1.35 rate to' Jeisey City
nor any other participated in by the Philadelphia & Reading was declared unreasonable, either in itself or in relation to others; and there was no positive finding touching
the 'reasonableness-intrinsic or relative-of the 80-cent
schedule from "Lehigh District" adopted by the remaining carriers.
In their brief here, counsel for the Commission say:
"The Commission did not pass upon the reasonableness
of either rate [to Jersey City-80 cents or $1.35]. It
struck at the discrimination and the cause of it. It said,
in effect, to these five carriers that as they treated the
Lehigh cement district as one point of origin and made a
relative adjustment of rates on cement to all the principal consuming points competing with Jersey City, they
must make the same adjustment of the rates to Jersey
City on this commodity; that they might make the rate
any sum which they might choose to initiate, but that it
must be the same as the rate from every mill in the district
to Jersey City.
"If, as to all other consuming localities, they [the
carriers] are giving the relative adjustment of rates on
cement' from. cement mills in the Lehigh district, and
refusing this adjustment to one consuming locality, they
are prejudicing that locality.
"
"The establishment of joint rates is provided for in
section 6 of .the act to regulate commerce. Such rates

PHILA. & READING RY. v. UNITED STATES. 341
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are made by agreement between the participating carriers
and cannot be filed or published without such agreement. .
"The appellant has no individual rate which covers
the cement traffic from Evansville to Jersey City; the
traffic moves on a joint rate. The cement traffic from
other mills to Jersey City and to other principal consuming points also moves on joint rates. The Philadelphia &
Reading is a party to many of these rates. It is also a
party to the joint rate from Evansville to Jersey City.
As a participating carrier in these rates it is responsible
for the violation of the act described in the order."
We must assume the Jersey City rate of $1.35 is intrinsically reasonable and non-discriminatory -in relation to
those accorded other consuming points; and, plainly, if
this were put in by all carriers, .the Commission's order
would be complied with and the supposed discrimination
disappear. It must be taken as true that no rate above
what all might lawfully establish is being demanded by
any carrier; and, with one exception, they are paid forty
per cent. less than that amount. If a universal rate of
$1.35 could not justly be complained of by -the locality,
certainly it is not discriminated against or unlawfully
prejudiced because, failing to agree, most of the oarriers
have established an 80-cent schedule. In the circumstances disclosed it is impossible rightly to conclude that
Jersey City is being subjected to "any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage."
As the facts reported afford no foundation for the
Commission's findings, enforcement..of the order based
thereon must be enjoined. *The decree below is accordingly reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

