OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

ing is plainly erroneous because the evidence is insufficient
to support it; and, having examined the record, we are
unable to say the facts disclosed do not give the essential
support. The judgment of the court below is accordingly
Affirmed.

BUTLER

v. PERRY, SHERIFF OF COLUMBIA
COUNTY, FLORIDA.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
No. 182.

Submitted January 14, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.

The term involuntary servitude, as used in the Thirteenth Amendment, was intended to cover those forms of compulsory labor akin
to African slavery which in practical operation would tend to produce like results, and not to interdict enforcement of duties owed by

individuals to the State.
The great object of the Thirteenth Amendment was liberty under protection of effective government and not destruction of the latter by
depriving it of those essential powers which had always been properly
exercised before its adoption.
The Fourteenth Amendment was intended to recognize and protect
fundamental objects long recognized under the common law system.
Ancient usage and unanimity of judicial opinion justify the conclusion
that, unless restrained by constitutional limitations, a State has
inherent power to require every able-bodied man within its jurisdiction to labor for a reasonable period on public roads near his residence
without direct compensation.
A reasonable amount of work on public roads near his residence is a
part of the duty owed by able-bodied men to the public; and a requirement by a State to that effect does not amount to imposition
of involuntary servitude otfierwise than as a punishment for crime
within the prohibition of the Thirteenth Amendment; nor does the
enforcement of such requirement deprive persons of their liberty and
property without due process of law in"violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

BUTLER v. PERRY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The statute of Florida requiring every able-bodied man within its
jurisdiction to work during each year for six ten hour days on public
roads within the county of his residence, and imposing penalties for
willful failure so to do, is not unconstitutional as contrary to the
Thirteenth Amendment or to the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
67 Florida, 405, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments of a statute of
Georgia requiring able-bodied men to do a certain amount
of work on public roads, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles C. Howell, for plaintiff in error.
Mr.Thomas F. West, Attorney General of the State of
Florida, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Chapter 6537, Laws of Florida (Acts of 1913, pp. 469,
474, 475), provides:
"SEC. 10. Every able-bodied male person over the age
of twenty-one years, and under the age of forty-five years,
residing in said county for thirty days or more continuously next prior to the date of making of the list by the
Board of County Commissioners, or the date of the summons or notice to work, shall be subject, liable and required to work on the roads and bridges of the several
counties for six days of not less than ten hours each in each
year when summoned so to do, as herein provided; that
such persons so subject to road duty may perform such
services by an able-bodied substitute over the age of
eighteen years, or in lieu thereof may pay to the road
overseer on or before the day he is called upon to render
such ervice the sum of three dollars, and such overseer
shall turn into the county treasury of his county any and
.all moneys so paid to him, the same to be placed, to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

credit of the road and bridge fund and subject to the order
of the Board of County Commissioners for road and
bridge purposes;
"SEc. 12.

Any person or persons not exempt as afore-

said who shall fail to work on public roads of the several
counties when required to do so, or to provide a substitute
as herein provided, and shall neglect or refuse to make
payment for the same, as hereinbefore provided, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
fined not more than fifty dollars or imprisoned in the
county jail for not longer than thirty days."
Plaintiff in error was convicted in the County Judge's
Court, Columbia County, upon a charge of failing to work
on a road, and sentenced to jail for thirty days. The
Circuit Court granted a writ of habeas corpus; he was heard,
remanded to the custody of the sheriff, and then released
under bond. The Supreme Court of the State affirmed the
action of the Circuit Court (67 Florida, 405), and the
cause is here upon writ of error.
It is insisted that §§ 10 and 12, supra, are invalid because they undertake to impose involuntary servitude not
as a punishment for crime, contrary to the Thirteenth
Amendment to the Federal Constitution; and also because
their enforcement would deprive plaintiff of his liberty and
property without due process of law, in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
In view of ancient usage and the unanimity of judicial
opinion, it must be taken as settled that, unless restrained
by some constitutional limitation, a State has inherent
power to require every able-bodied man within its jurisdiction to labor for a reasonable time on public roads near
his residence without direct compensation. This is a part
of the duty which he owes to the public. The law of
England is thus declared in Blackstone's Commentaries,
Book 1, page 357:
'Every parish i§ bound of common right to keep the

BUTLER v. PERRY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

highroads that go through it in good and sufficient repair;
unless by reason of the tenure of lands, or otherwise, this
care is consigned to some particular private person. From
this burthen no man was exempt by our ancient laws,
whatever other immunities he might enjoy: this being part
of the trinoda necessitas, to which every man's estate was
subject; viz., expeditia contra hostem, arcium constructio, et
pontium reparatio. For, though the reparation of bridges
only is expressed, yet that of roads also must be understood; as in the Roman law, With respect to the construction and repairing of ways and bridges no class of men of
whatever rank or dignity should be exempted.'
The trinoda necessitas was an obligation falling on all
freemen or at least on all free householders. Vinogradoff,
English Society in the Eleventh Century, p. 82.
From Colonial days to the present time conscripted
labor has been much relied on for the construction and
maintenance of roads. The system was introduced from
England, and, while it has produced no Appian Way,
appropriateness to the circumstances existing in rural
communities gave it general favor. Elliott on Roads and
Streets, §§ 479, 480; Dillon on Municipal Corporations,
5th Edition, § 1407, p. 2459, note; Cooley, Constitutional
Limitations, 7th Edition, p. 736; In re Dassler, 35 Kansas,
678; State v. Wheeler, 141 N. Car. 773, S. Car., 5 L. R. A.
(N. S.) 1139, note; Dennis v. Simon, 51 Ohio St. 233;
State v. Rayburn, 2 Okla. Cr. Rep. 413; Sawyer v. Alton,
4 Illinois, 127; State v. Commissioners of Halifax, 15 No.
Car. 345. In 1889 the statutes of twenty-seven States
provided for such labor on public roads. Young's Recent
Road Legislation.
The Ordinance of 1787 for the government of the Northwest Territory declares: "There shall be neither slavery
nor involuntary servitude in the said territory, otherwise
than in punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall
have been duly convicted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

In 1792 the territorial legislative body passed an act
providing: "That every male inhabitant of sixteen years
of age and upwards on being duly warned to work on the
highways by the supervisor in the township to which
such inhabitant may belong shall repair to the place and
at the time by the said supervisor appointed with such
utensils and tools as may be ordered him wherewith he is
to labour and there abide and obey the direction of such
supervisor during the day in opening and repairing the
highway." (Sec. 5, Chapter IV, Laws passed from July
to December, 1792, Laws of the Territory Northwest of
the Ohio, 1788-1798.) An act of the General Assembly
of the Territory passed in 1799, declared: "That all male
persons of the age of twenty-one years, and not exceeding
fifty, who have resided thirty days in any township of
any county within this territory, who are not a township
charge, shall over and above the rate of assessment hereinafter mentioned, be liable, yearly and every year, to do
and perform two days work on the public roads, under
the direction of the supervisor within whose limits they
shall be respectively regidents." (Sec. 10, Chapter 28
of Northwest Territory Acts, 1799.)
By their several constitutions the States within the
limits of the Northwest Territory prohibited involuntary
servitude substantially in the language of the 1787 Ordinance, and with the possible exception of Wisconsin,
all of them early enacted and long enforced laws requiring
labor upon public roads.
Utilizing the language of the Ordinance of 1787, the
Thirteenth Amendment declares that neither slavery nor
involuntary servitude shall exist. This amendment was
adopted with reference to conditions existing since the
foundation of our Government, and the term involuntary
servitude was intended to cover those forms of compulsory labor akin to African slavery which in practical
operation would tend to produce like undesirable results.

BUTLER v. PERRY.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It introduced no novel doctrine with respect of services
always treated as exceptional, and certainly was not
intended to interdict enforcement of those duties whith
individuals owe to the State, such as services in the army,
militia, on the jury, etc. The great purpose in view was
liberty under the protection of effective government, not
the destruction of the latter by depriving it of essential
powers. Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 69, 71, 72;
Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U. S. 537, 542; Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275, 282; Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S.
207; Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219.
There is no merit in the claim that a man's labor is
property, the taking of which without compensation by
the State for building and maintenance of public roads,
violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. That Amendment was intended to preserve and
protect fundamental rights long recognized under the
common law system. Slaughter House Cases, supra;
Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11; Giozza v. Tiernan,
148 U. S. 657, 662; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 663;
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31; Kelly v. Pittsburg,
104 U. S. 78, 80; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97.
Conceding for some purposes labor must be considered
as property, it is evident from what already has been
said that to require work on the public roads has never
been r~garded as a deprivation of either liberty or property.
The circumstances of the present case indicate no
failure to observe due process of law in the exercise of the
State's undoubted power. Ample notice appears to have
been given and disregarded. There was an orderly trial
and conviction before a duly constituted tribunal for a
plainly defined statutory offense, followed by a sentence
not alleged to be' unreasonable.
We find no error in the judgment of the court below, and
it is
Affirmed.

