CHI., ROCK ISLD. & PAC. RY. v. BOND.
240 U. S.

449

Counsel for Parties.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. BOND, ADMINISTRATOR OF

TURNER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.

No. 486.

Argued February 23, 1916.-Decided March 20, 1916.

One who is not an employ6 of an interstate carrier, but an independent
contractor, cAnnot recover, nor can his representative, under the
Employers' Liability Act, even if killed or injured while engaged in
services in interstate commerce.
Although a certain direction or information may be given by the carrier to one contracting with it, if, as in this case, the contract is not
the engagement of a servant submitting to subordination andpubject
momentarily to superintendence, but of one capable of independent
action to be judged by its results, and the person so contracting controls the manner of the work done by himself and those employed by
him, he is a contractor with, and not an employ6 of, the carrier within
the meaning of the Employers' Liability Act.
A contract to shovel coal on a per ton basis, and with provisions assuming all risk and liability for injury to, or for death of, himself
and persons employed by him, between an interstate carrier and an
independent employer of labor who had other contracts for work.
with the same carrier and with other companies, held, not to be
an evasion of the provision of § 5 of the Employers' Liability Act,
that any contract or device for exemption of the carrier's liability
under the act shall be void.
THE facts, which involve the application and construction of the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the
validity of a judgment in an action thereunder, are stated

in the opinion.
Mr. R. J. Roberts, with whom Mr. J. G. Gamble, Mr.
M. L. Bell, Mr. C. 0. Blake and Mr. T. P. Littlepage were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John C. Moore for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

Action for damages caused by the railway company by
the killing of the deceased, William L. Turner, through
the negligence, it is alleged, of the company. It was
brought in the district court of Garfield County, Oklahoma,
and invoked the benefits of the Employers' Liability Act
of Congress of April 22, 1908 (35 Stat. 65), c. 149, .as
amended April 5, 1910 (36 Stat. 291), c. 143. The case
was removed on petition of the railway company to the
United States District Court for the Western District of
Oklahoma and remanded by that court to the state court.
There an amended petition was filed by plaintiff in the
action, to which an answer was filed.
After answer the case was tried to a jury, which returned a verdict for the sum of $7,583.00, distributed in
certain proportions among those dependent upon the deceased. Judgment was entered upon the verdict and sustained by the Supreme Court of -the State.
The case went to the jury upon the effect of certain
contracts between deceased and the company, whether
he was the company's servant or a contractor with it,
and whether, if he was the servant of the company, it
was guilty of negligence or whether he was guilty of contributory negligence.
The facts are not much in dispute. The company is
an interstate common carrier and its line runs through
the limits of the City of Enid, Garfield County, State of
Oklahoma. Within the city there are six parallel tracks
which run nearly from the north to the south, bearing
as they proceed a little to the west. At the south end
near their termination are located coal chutes, into the
pockets or tipples of which coal is shoveled from cars set
on the chutes for the use of all engines, local and interstate. The City of Enid has the power to establish and

CHI., ROCK ISLD. & PAC. RY. v. BOND.
240 U. S.

451

Opinion of the Court.

did establish. by ordinance a speed limit of ten miles an
hour for all trains within its limits, beyond'which it was
unlawful to proceed.
The relation of Turner to the railroad company was
under two contracts, one dated November 1, 1910, the
other October 1, 1911. In the first contract the railroad
company is party of the first part and Turner party of
the second part and is called "Contractor." The covenants of one are made the consideration for the covenants
of the other, and Turner, as contractor, agrees first "to
furnish all the labor required and necessary to handle;
and (a) to handle all the coa, required by the company
at Enid, from either open or closed cars, or both, and to
place the same in coal chute pockets of the company; to
gather up all coal that falls from the coal chute pockets
to the ground and place the same on cars or engines as
desired by the company. (b) To break all coal to the
size of four inch cubes or less before delivery to chutes for
engine use and to unload all coal for stationary boilers.
(c) To .unload wood from cars to storage piles located on
company's right of way in Enid. (d) To load cinders)
from the right of way to cars at points designated by the
company. (e) To unload sand from cars furnished by
the company at points designated by it.
2nd. The company agrees to pay for the services enumerated in certain designated numbers of cents per ton, or
cord or yard, as the case may be, to be paid upon estimates and records of the company.
3rd. Contractor agrees to maintain a sufficient supply
of coal 'in the coal chutes and break or crack all coal to
suitable sizes.
4th. Contractor expressly assumes all liability for injuries to or death of persons in his employ or loss or injury
to his property, whether caused by the negligence of the
company, its agents or employees, and he covenants 'to
save' the company harmless on account thereof, or for

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

or on account of any injury to or death of any person
employed by him when and while such persons may be
in or about the cars, engines and tracks of the company,
"and any injury to said contractor while performing any
services under this contract which might be or have been
delegated to his agent or employees." And the contractor
expressly assumes all liability for injury to or death of
third persons, including the employds of the company,
occasioned by any of his acts, and thq company shall not
be liable to him in case of his death or injury while employed in the work set forth.
5th. Punctuality of performance is stipulated for; (6th)
the contract to continue until terminated, as it may be
by either party upon fifteen days' notice; (7th) or upon
failure of contractor to perform his duties, at the option
of the company, without being liable in damages therefor,
of which failure the company shall be the sole judge;
(8th) the company to furnish the necessary tools for the
performance of the stipulated services.
9th. It is "agreed and understood that the contractor
shall be deemed and held as the original contractor, and
the railway company reserves and holds no control over
him in the doing of such work other than as to the results
to be accomplished."
10th. The company shall keep a record of all coal delivered and shall make settlements and pay the contractor for handling the coal upon the basis of such
handling, and the contractor shall make daily reports of
the cars unloaded by him and shall receive, collect and
deliver to the duly authorized representative of the company a ticket from each engineman, hostler or other employee, showing the number of tons of coal delivered to
any engine; (11th) payment of the work ta be made
monthly; and (12th) the contract and all the terms and
conditions, rights and obligations thereof, to inure to the
heirs, administrators, executors, legal representatives,

CHI., ROCK ISLD. & PAC. RY. v. BOND.
240 U. S.

43

Opinion of the Court.

assigns and lessees of both parties, but assigning or sub:
letting shall not be without the written consent of the
company.
Under the other contract Turner was required to cooper
all cars which the Round House foreman directed him to
prepare to fit the oars to hold grain in transit, the foreman
to be the sole judge whether the preparation was in accordance with the contract. The manner of preparation
is detailed and the price to be paid therefor in cents, the
company to furnish the materials.
There are provisions as in the other contract to save
the company from liability to persons or property. The
contract was to continkie until terminated upon thirty
days' notice.
This contract is pertinent only for illustration, and
otherwise may be put out of view. The deceased was
killed, it is the contention, while performing services
under the first contract.
Turner had a contract with the Enid- Mill & Elevator
Company to unload coal, and, directly after 4 o'clock
on the day he was killed, having finished a particular
service at which he and one of his employ6s had been
engaged, remarked that he would "go down. and gather
up the tickets and order a car of coal for the-morning,"
and started down the tracks toward the chutes.
He next appeared about 5:25 o'clock at the cinder pile
of the Enid Mill & Elevator Company at'what is designated as the "White Mill," and there had a conversation
with an employee of that company, and asked him, theemployee, if he thought he would have enough coal- for
the boiler room to run until Monday night. While they
were talking a passenger train signaled its approach to
the station and Turner said, "That is 24; I must take
my coal tickets to the freight house and turn them in
and order coal for the chutes." He then started towards
the freight house.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

The trial court thought the testimony was indefinite
of Turner's intention and hesitated to decide that he was
engaged in services to the railway company rather, than
to the Enid Mill & Elevator Company, but finally left
it to the jury to decide.
From the "White Mill" Turner passed along the tracks
of the railroad and was seen. by a witness walking between
tracks 3 and°4 with his hands behind him, and while so
walking and when he was at a point east of the north end
of the freight house an engine and two box cars and i
flat car, backing on the track to his left in the direction
in which he was going, and running at about 25 miles an
hour and in excess of the speed limit prescribed in the
ordinance, ran over and killed him. It is a reasonable
conjecture that the character of the day and the noise'
and confusion of the approaching passenger train so distracted his, attention that he did not hear the approach
of the backing cars and warning yells of the brakeman and
apprehended no danger.
Besides excessive speed there were other elements of
negligence by the company which the plaintiff relied upon.
We may pass by the assignments of error based on the
rulings upon the evidence and in giving and refusing
instructions. The determining consideration is the relation in which Turner stood to the company, whether he
was an employee of it or an independent contractor.
The trial court submitted the question to the decision
of the jury; the Supreme Court, considering the contract
of November 1, 1910, hereinbefore set out, afid certain
testimony, decided that Turner was an employee of the
company. The court said: "Not only did the contract
reserve to the company the right to direct deceased in
his work but it might be well to know, although we are
onlypassing upon the face of the contract, that the company, pursuant to the power therein reserved, did that
very thing, which confirms us in our opinion, gathered

CHI., ROCK ,ISLD. & PAC. RY. v. BOND.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from the face of the contract, that the same was not capable of execution without such direction and control.
Such amounts to a practical construction of the contract
by thb company. Mr. Bowman, station agent and yardmaster of defendant, testified:
"' Q. From whom did Mr. Turner get instructions about
handling work performed by him?
"'A. Under his contract, from me.
"'Q. You directed him what to do?
"'A. Yes, either me or my chief clerk.
"'Q. So that he was under your supervision and control
all the time?
"'A. In so far as the contracts were concerned, yes, sir.
"'Q. He performed his duties in accordance with what
you directed him to do?
"'A. Yes, sir.
"'Q. I will ask you if all this coal he handled for the
chutes, if that was Rock Island coal?
"'A. Yes, sir.'"
To which testimony this must be added:
"'Q. Did you have anything to do with directing him
in detail as to how he performed the terms of his contract?
"'A. No, sir."'
We are unable to concur with the learned court injts
conclusion. There was, it is true, and necessarily, a certain direction to be given by the company, or rather, we
should say, information given to Turner. But the manner
of the work was under his control, to be done by him and
those employed by him. He was responsible for its faithful performance and incurred the penalty of the instant
termination of the contract for nonperformance. This
was only a prudent precaution, indeed, necessary in view
of the purpose of his contract, which was to make provision
for a daily supply of coal for the operation of the railroad.
The power given was one of control in a sense, but it was
not a detailed control of the actions of Turner or those of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

his employees. It was a judgment only over results and
a necessary sanction of the obligations which he had incurred. It was not tantamount to the control, of an employee and a remedy against his incompetency or neglect.
The whole instrument shows system and particular
care. It is not the engagement of a servant submitting
to subordination and subject momentarily to superintendence, but of one capable of independent action, to be
judged of by its results. And the covenants were suitable for the purpose, only consistent with it, not consistent
with a temporary employment. This is manifest from
the provision for payment, from the careful assignment of
liabilities and the explicit provision that Turner "shall
be ieemed and held as the original contractor and the
railroad company reserves and holds no control over him
in the doing of such work other than as to the results to
be accomplished."
The railroad company, therefore, did not retain the
right to direct the manner in which the business should be
done, as well as the results to be accomplished, or, in other
words did not retain control not only of what should be
done but how it should be done. Singer Mfg. Co. v.
Rahn, 132 U. S. 518; Railroad Co. v. Hanning, 15 Wall.
649, 656; StandardOil Co. v. Anderson, 212 U. S. 215, 227.
The case falls, therefore, under the ruling in Casement
v. Brown, 148 U. S. 615, 622.
We do not think that the contract can be regarded as
an evasion of § 5 of the Employers' Liability Act, which
provides "that any contract, rule, regulation or device
whatsoever, the purpose and intent of which shall be to
enable any common carrier to exempt itself from any
liability created by this act, shall to that extent be
void:
"
Turner was something more than a mere shoveler of
coal under a superior's command. He was an independent
employer of labor, conscious of his own power to direct

SOUTHERN WISCONSIN RY. v. MADISON.
240 U. S.

457

Syllabus.

and willing to assume the responsibility of direction and
to be judged by its results. This is manifest from the
contract under review and from the cooperage contract;
it is also manifest from his contracts with the other companies to whose industries the railroad company's tracks
extended. We certainly cannot say that he was incompetent to assume such relation and incur its consequences.
Thus being of opinion that Turner was not an employee
of the company but an independent contractor, it is not
material to consider whether the services in which he was
engaged were in interstate commerce.
Judgment reversed and case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

SOUTHERN WISCONSIN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
CITY OF MADISON..
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 260. Argued March 6, 7, 1916.-Decided March 20, 1916.
Although the charter of a railway company was held in this case to be a
contract, a later ordinance requiring it to pave with asphalt the
space between its tracksand one foot on each side was held not to be
an impairment of its obligation or a violation of the due process or
equal protection provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The state court having found that the pavement between the tracks of
a street railway needed repair, and that the pavement originally
used was not suitable and was additionally unsuitable when the rest
of the street was paved with asphalt, this court will not declare the
State wrong in holding that a provision requiring the railway company to keep the space between the tracks and one foot on each side
in proper repair so as not to interfere with travel over the same was
*broad enough io cover requiring it to be paved with asphalt when the
rest of the street was so paved.
156 Wisconsin, 352, affirimed.

