TANNER v. LITTLE.
246 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

TANNER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF WASHINGTON, v. LITTLE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 224.

Argued'October 29, November 1, 2, 1915.-Decided March 6,
1916.

Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, ante, p. 342, followed to effect that the
State may regulate the use of, and impose license -taxes on the
privilege of using profit sharing coupons and trading stamps.
The statute of the State of Washington of 1907 imposing license taxes
on the privilege of ,using profit sharing coupons and trading stamps
is in its essential particulars similar to the statute of Florida sustained in Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, ante, p. 342: and, held
that such statute was properly enacted in the exercise of the police
power of the State in regard to matters subject to regulation, and
that it is not unconstitutional under the Federal Constitution as
interfering with or burdening interstate commerce, impairing the
obligation of contracts, denying equal protection of the law, or
depriving merchants of their property without due'process of law.
208 Fed. Rep. 605.
THIS case was submitted with Rast v. Van Deman &
Lewis, ante, p. 342, and attacks the validity of a statute of
the State of Washington of the same general import and
purpose as the Florida statute passed on in that case,
Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, ante, p. 342.
The statute requires that every person,. etc., who shall
use or furnish to any other person, etc., to use in, with, or
for the sale of any goods, etc., any stamps, etc., which shall
entitle the purchaser receiving the same with such sale of
goods, etc., to procure from any person, etc., any goods,
etc., free of charge, or for less than the retail market price
thereof, upon the production of any number of such
stamps, etc., shall, before so furnishing, selling or using

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

the same, obtain a license from the auditor of each county
wherein such furnishing or selling or using shall take place
for each and every store or place of business in that county,
owned or conducted by such' person, etc., from which
such furnishing or selling, or in which such using shall take
place.
The statute fixes the license at $6,000, and 'there is a
prohibition of the use of the stamps, etc., in any town, city
or county other than that in which they are furnished or
sold. Violation of the act is made a "gross misdemeanor."
The complainants are nineteen in number, counting
partnerships as single individuals, and engaged in the
business of hardware, cleaning and dyeing, grocery, soap,
canned goods, meats, drugs, dry goods, boots and shoes,
fuel, photography, laundry and wine. Complainants sue
for all similarly situated.
Their allegations, condensed and narratively stated, are
as follows: They carry on their respective businesses at
Spokane, State of Washington, and advertise in various
ways, which are enumerated, including the premium advertising system, so-called, and have at various times, for
the purpose of increasing their general trade and volume of
business, especially their cash trade, adopted and used a
premium advertising system conducted as follows: with
the sale of their goods and merchandise they each give
to their cash customers stamps, tickets or coupons at the
rate of one stamp for each cash purchase of a convenient
unit amount, as one stamp for each 5, 10 or, 25 cent cash
purchase, as the case may be, which stamps or coupons
entitle their customers to the choice of a certain cash discount or, free of charge, to certain articles of merchandise
of their own selection, when presented in certain prescribed numbers' for redemption to complainants who
redeem their own stamps or certificates, or to a third party
with whom -other of the complainants have contracts,
many of which are still in force, for the use of their pre-

TANNER v. LITTLE.
240 U. S.

Statement of the Casp.

mium advertising system, including lhe use of their trading-stamps or coupons used in connection therewith, and
the redemption thereof in merchandise.
Many of the complainants accept the coupons, at the
cash value thereon printed, in payment or part payment of
the cash retail price of the premium articles.
The stamps and coupons are redeemable in accordance
with the terms of printed catalogues or premium lists.
Booklets are distributed free among complainants' customers and describe the articles which may be secured by
the stamps or coupons and state the number thereof required to obtain the same. The delivery of the required
number of stamps or coupons set forth in the list is in full
.payment for the article specified and no money or other
consideration is charged therefor.,
There is no element of chance involved in the system.
The value of each article is fixed -as to cash and merchandise redemption and the right of every holder is secure.
The articles are of sound value and durable manufacture
and are open to inspection during business hours. The
premiums are not regularly dealt in by many of the complainants but are used exclusively in connection with premium advertising.
A number of.complainants have contracts based on the
system running from one to five years for the use of their
premium advertising system, including their trading
stamps in connection therewith, which contracts are now
in force and were in force at the passage of the act, and a
large number of stamps are now in the hands of complainants and if. they are prevented from disposing of them
complainants will suffer great and irreparable loss..
A great many manufacturers of various lines of merchandise, for the purpose of advertising their businesses
and increasing.the volume of their sales, enclose in the
packages of their merchandise coupons and other premium
tokens which entitle the purchaser of such merchandise to

OCTOBER TERM,- 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

other articles-of merchandise free of charge. The number
of the manufacturers is giyen, their names and the articles
which they manufacture.
Complainants have upon their shelves large quantities
of merchandise in which premium tokens are packed,
which upon their sale entitle purchasers to other articles
in the manner described, and in such packages are tobacco
and tobacco products, and the use of the coupons and
tickets as described is authorized and rendered lawful by
§ 3394 of the Revised Statutes of the United States and
the amendments of that section in 1897, July 24, c. 11,
30 Stat. .151, 206, aud 1902, July 1, c. 1371, 32 Stat. 714,
715.
The ad6ption of the premium advertising system
enables complainants to give a discount upon purchases
of. small as well as large amounts, one coupon or stamp
being given with each 5, 10 or 25 cent cash purchase, or
multiple thereof, as the case may be. And a larger discount in merchandise can be given than otherwise there
could be because as a result of large purchases of the merchandise given in exchange for the tokens the articles are
secured at much less than the regular retail price. By
reason of the system complainantg have been enabled at a
moderate cost to greatly increase their businesses and
profits and are benefited because their articles in the
homes of their customers are a continual advertisement.
And the-businesses are lawful ones and not prejudicial to
the public health, safety, morals or welfare.
The statute of Washington violates the 'provisions of
the. Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States in that it deprives complainants of their
property without due process of law and of the equal protection of the laws (a) because it is not equal and uniform
in operation, each of the complainants paying their taxes
as do other merchants engaged in similar lines of business
and who use other and various methods of advertising and

TANNER v. LITTLE.
240 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

who are not required to pay a license tax of $6000. The
statute is therefore arbitrary and discriminatory. (b) The
tax is not upon the businesses of complainants but upon
their incidents and is an unwarrantable interference with
the method and manner of conducting the same, is arbitrary, oppressive, discriminatory, is in excess of profits
and prohibitive, and, while in the guise of revenue will
produce none. (c) It deprives complainants of their liberty'and property without due process of law inasmuch as
they cannot bestow a gift or give an order upon another
merchant for a gift to a customer, which is the exercise of
a natural .right, without paying an onerous and excessive
tax. (d) The penalties and fines are so drastic and excessive that they deter complainants from violating the act
and testing its validity in a court of law. (e)' The statute
is in contravention of § 10, Article I, of the Constitution
of the United-States in that it impairs the obligations of
contracts with and the -right of complainants to contract
with their customers to give trading stamps and coupons
with the purchase of merchandise redeemable in rgerchandise heretofore given by them. It'also impairs the
obligations of contracts entered into by complainants
with third parties for the use of the advertising system,
including the Use of the stamps and coupons and the redemption thereof in merchandise. (f) The statute is partial, unreasonable, oppressive, unequal, in restraint of
trade and prohibitive of lawful business. (g) The statute
conflicts with § 3394 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States and the amendments thereof. (h) It is criminal,
making a crime of acts the test of which is incapable of
ascertainment, that is, it makes a -crime- of furnishing
stamps or similar devices which are 'redeemable "for less
than the retail market price thereof," the premium article
having no definite or fixed retail market price. The
statute is therefore void for indefiniteness and uncertainty;
and such provision is besides prohibitive of the ,business

374

OCTOBER TERM,. 1915.
Statement of the Case.

240 U. S.

as the articles axe not dealt mi by complainants except in
connection with the premium system. And further ,that
the statute is void because it attempts, to fix the price at
which complainants shall sell their merchandise.
The prosecuting attornby of the county threatens to
enforce the provisions of the statute, to bring numerous
criminal prosecutions as well as civil suits to enforce the
payment of the license, and if complainants are forced to
discontinue their business as described they will suffer
great and irreparable damage because they have expended
large sums of money in advertising the premium system,
which expenditures would be a total loss, they having large
stocks of merchandise on hand in which axe packed the
premium tokens and which cannot be removed without
practically destroying 4the packages. and the value of the
merchandise contained therein, and that therefore if not
permitted to dispose of them complainants will lose a
large amount of money.
Complainants have outstanding in the hands of customers'a large amount of tokens, the result of transactions before the passage of the statute, and it will be
necessary in order to keep faith with their customers for
complainants to redeem such tokens in merchandise in the
future from time to time as the necessary and requisite
number of the same are presented for redemption. If
they fail to do so they will lose many customers and a large
amount of trade and suffer thereby great loss and injury.
Having no remedy at law, complainants pray an injunction, first temporary and then perpetual.
A temporary restraining order was issued, which the
Attorney General and the prosecuting attorney of Spokane
County'separately made motions to quash, each appearing
only for that purpose. The motions asserted exemption
from suit of those officers in a Federal court because the
suit was against them as officers of the State to prevent
the enforcement of the criminal laws of the State and was

TANNER v. LITTLE.
240 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

therefore a suit against the State in violation of the
Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
Subsequently motions to dismiss were filed-by them and
also by the defendant Evenson, county treasurer of Spokane County. The grounds of the m6tions alleged were
misjoinder of parties complainants and of defendants, improper union of causes of suit, insufficiency of"the facts
alleged to justify the, relief prayed, the adequacy of a
remedy at law, and the absence of jurisdiction over the
persons of the defendants or of the subject-matter of the
action.
The notion for an interlocutory injunction came before
three judges. Rudkin, district judge, delivered the opinion and judgment ordering an injunction as prayed. 208
Fed. Rep. 605. This appeal was then taken.
Mr. Dallas V. Halverstadt and Mr. Blackburn Esterline,
with whoan Mr. W. V. Tanner, Attorney General of the
State of Washington, was on the brief, for appellants:
Between 1888 and 1915, statutes prohibiting, restricting,
or licensing on the payment of fees, the .use of trading
stamps, were passed by Alabama, Arkansas, California,
Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska,
New Hampshire, Indiana, New York, North Carolina,
Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Utah,
Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and
Hawaii. In 1873,. Congress passed an. Act making it a
penal offense to engage in any gift enterprise in the District of Columbia, 17 Stat. 464, c. 148, which embraced the
use of' trading stamps, Lansburghv. Districtof Colu.mbia,
11 App. D. C. 512; District of Columbia v. Kraft, 35 App.
D. C. 253; In re Gregory, 219 U. S. 210. By an express
Act of Parliament the use. of tr&,ding stamps is a crime in
the Dominion of Canada. Wilder v. Montreal, 26 Rapp.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Appellees.

240 U. S.

Jud.'Quebec, 504, and note. This unanimity of the legislative mind refutes the argument that the use of trading
stamps is only a legitimate and harmless system of advertising, and that the statute of Washington deprivesthe
users of Jhem of liberty and property without due process
of law.
In 1913, the State of Washington, declared as the public
policy of the State that the use of trading stamps should be
restricted and regulated, Sess. Laws, 1913, p. 413, and the
Supreme Court of the State sustained it in State v. Pitney,
79 Washington, 608, expressly overruling Leonard v.
Bassindale, 46 Washington, 301, holding unconstitutional
the previous act of 1905, p. 374.
Coincident with the arguments before this court in
this case, the Supreme Court of Louisiana sustained the
trading stamp statute of that State, Louisiana v. Underv
wood, La. Sup. C., October 8, 1915. See also on this subject article by Assistant Attorney-General Warren, 13,
Col. Law Rev., April, 1913, p. 296; "Premiums in Retail
Trade," by I. M. Rubinow, 13, Jour. Pol. Economy, Sept.,
1905, No. 4, p. 574; "Cost of Distributing Groceries," by
E. M. Patterson, Ph. D., Wharton School of Finance,
Univ. Penna., 50, Annals Academy Pol. Science, No. 139,
p. 74; "Fallacy of the Trading Stamp," by Arno Dosch,
Pearson's Magazine, Aug., 1911; "Premium Giving," by
Frank Farrington, in 'Store Management Complete,
Byxbee Pub. Co., Chicago, 1911.
Many authorities sustain the propositions that the State
may prohibit the use of trading stamps by virtue of the
police power, and that the Washington Trading Stamp
Act is not an arbitrary classification.
If the State possesses the power to tax for revenue, the
extent of the exercise of the power is immaterial.
Mr. W. T. Dovell with whom Mr. Frank T. Wolcott
was on the brief, for appellees:

TANNER v. LITTLE.
240 U.S.

Argument for Appellees.

The Act is prohibi'tive. Murphy v: California, 225
U. S. 623; Rosenthal v. New York, 226 U. S. 260.
To prohibit the conduct of the business is contrary
to the law of the land. Cotting v. Stock Yards Co., 183
U. S. 79; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223; Gulf,
Colo. &c. Ry. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Halter v. Nebraska,
205 U. S. 34; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Lawton v.
Steele, 152 U. S. 133; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623.
The prohibition does not fall within the police power
because it tends to limit extravagance. In regard to
sumptuary laws, see Allnutt v. Inglis, 12 East, 527;
Cooley's Blackstone, Book I, p. 125; Cooley's Const."
Lim. (7th ed.), p. 549; Ex parte Dickey, 144 California,
234; 2 Farrand's Records of the Fed. Conv. 344; German
Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389; Humes v.
Little Rock, 138 Fed. Rep. 929; Keokee Coke Co. v. Taylor,
234 U. S. 224; Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104;
Patsone v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 138; People v. Gillson,
109 N. Y. 389; 17 N. E. Rep. 343; People v. Steele, 231
Illinois, 340.; 83 N. E. Rep. 236; People v. Zimmerman,
92 N. Y. S. 497; Pullman Co. v. Knott, 35 Sup. Ct. Rep. 2;
Ex parte Quarg, 149 California, 79; Seattle v. Dencker,
58 Washington, 501; State v. Fire Creek Coal Co., 33 W.
Va. 188; Stickney's, State Control, ch. I, and see p. 100;
Tiedeman's Pol. Pow., p. 154.
.The Act is not brought within the police power because
it may foster intermediate concerns. Denver v. Frueauff,
39 Colorado, 20; Winston v. Beeson, 135 N. Car. 271;
Commonwealth v. Gibson Co., 125 Kentucky, 440; People v.
Dycker, 76 N.'Y. S. 111; People v. Zimmerman, 92 N. Y.
S. 497; State v. Dalton, 22 R. I. 77; State v. Ramseyer, 73
N. H. 31; State v. Sperry & Hutchinson,110 Minnesota, 378.
The Act denies equal protection of the law because the
attempted classification for the purpose of a license tax
is purely arbitrary. Cases supra and see Bell's Gap R.
R. v. Pennsylvania, 134 U. S. 232; Winston v. Beeson,

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Argument for Appellees.

240 U. S,'

135 N. Car. 271; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., '184
U. S. 540; Ex patte Drexel, 147 California, 763; Ex parte'
Hutchinson, 137 Fed. Rep. 949; Southern Ry. v. Greene,
216 U. S. 400; Sperry & Hutchinson v. Temple, 137 Fed.
Rep. 992; State v. Loomis, 115 Missouri,307.
The practice of using premium stamps is legitimate As
a method of advertising. The coupon system furnishes
a peculiar and legitimate inducement for the return of a
customer. Co6peration among merchants in the use of
the premium system is lawful and the adjudicated cases
have held the classification arbitrary. Montgomery v.
Kelly, 142 Alabama, 552; Commonwealth v. Gibson Co.,
125 Kefitucky, 440; 101 S. W. Rep. 385; Hewin . Atlanta,
121 Georgia, 723; Ex parte McKenna, 126 California, 429;
O'Keeffe v. Somerville; 190 Massachusetts, 110; Van De'man & Lewis Co. , Rast, 214 Fed. Rep. 827.
If thg business of practice is, lawful, it may not be prohibited indirectly by a license tax. Connolly v.' Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 1841J. S. 560; Cooley on Taxation (3d ed.),
pp. 260, 1140, 1143, Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107;
Harvard Law Review, Vol. XXVI, p. 682; Kehrer v.
Stewart, 197 U. S.60; Kirtlandv. Hotchkiss,100U. S. 491;
McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; M'Culloch V. Maryland, 4'Wheat. 316; 3 McQuillin on Mun. Corp., § 1002;
Post. Tel. Co. v. Charleston, 153 U. S. 692; Spencer v.
Merchant, 125 U. S. 345; -UnionPac. R. R. v. Peniston,
18 Wall. 5;. Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; Weston v.
Charleston, 2 Pet. 449; Wiggins Ferry. Co. v. St. Louis,
107 U. S. 365.
Repeated attempts to enact such legislation offer no
argument for its constitutionality. Chaddock v. Day,
75 Michigan, 527; Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137.
The" Retail Market Price" provision in the Abt renders
*it .unconstitutional. Bishop on Stat. Crimes (2d ed.),
§41; Brown v. State (Wis.), 119 N. W. Rep.338; Buckles
v. State, 5 Oklahoma, 109; 113 Pac. Rep. 244; Chicago.&

TANNER v. LITTLE.
240 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

N. W. Ry. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 866; Collins v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 634; Cook v. State (Ind.), 59 N. E. Rep. 489;
Int. Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216; Kilbourne
v. State, 84 Oh. St. 247; 2 Lewis'-Suth. Stat. Cons. (2d ed.),
§ 520; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Commonwealth, 33 L. R. A.
209; Matthews v. Murphy, 23 Ky. Law Rep. 750; Savage
v. Wallace,-165 Alabama, 572; Tozer v. United Stateg 52
Fed. Rep. 917.
The Act is invalid because its observance requires the
removal of inserts. Asbell v. Kansas, 209 U. S. 251;
Bettman v. Warwick, 108 Fed. Rep. 46; Commonwealth v.
Sherman Mfg. Co., 75 N. E. Rep. 71; Felsenheld v. United
States, 186 U. S. 126; Halter v. Nebraska, 205 U. S. 34;
M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; McDermott v.
Wisconsin, 228 U. S. 115; Mo., Kan. & Tex. Ry. v. Haber,
169.U. S. 613; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U, S. 623; Nor. Pac.
Ry. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370; People v. Van De Carr,
178 N. Y. 425; People y. Zimmerman, 92 N. Y. S. 497;
Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501; Second Employers' Liability
Cases, 223 U; S. 1; Sinnot v. Mobile, 22 How. 227; Smith v.
Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Southern Ry. v. Reid, 222 U. S.
424; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Abilene Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.
Excessive penalty renders Act unconstitutional. Bonnett v. Vallier (Wis.), 116 N. W. Rep. 885; Cons. Gas Co.
v. New York, 157 Fed. Rep. 849; Cotting v. Stock Yards,
183 U. S. 79; Grenada Co. v. Mississippi, 217 U. S. 433;
Mo. Pac. Ry. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340; Portland Ry.
v. Portland,201 Fed. Rep. 119; Reagan v. Farmers' L. &
T. Co., 154 U. S. 362; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217
U. S. 114; State v. Crawford, 74 Washington, 248; 133
Pac. Rep. 590; United States v. Del. & Hud. Co., 213 U.
S. 366; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 111;
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123.
The cases of Dist. of Col. v. Kraft, 35 App. D. C. 253
and Lansburgh v. Dist. of Col., 11 App. D. C. 512, can be
distinguished.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of -the court.

The court ruled against the motions to dismiss, and
concurring with the ruling as far as it retained jurisdiction
of the suits and the persons of the defendants, we pass to
the consideration of the, validity of the statute of the
State. Of that it was said: "The court is fully satisfied
from a bare inspection of the act without more and without
considering the affidavits on file, that it -isand was intended
to be prohibitive of the business methods against which
it is directed. It is plainly manifest that no merchant
could afford to pay the sum of $6,000 annually for the
mere privilege of giving away trading stamps or allowing
discount on his cash sales. But if this were the only
objection to the act it may be that the courts would be
powerless to enjoin its execution. The power of taxation
rests upon necessity and is inherent in every independent
State. It is as extensive as the range of subjects over
which the goverrnent extends; it is absolute and unlimited, in the absence of constitutional limitations and
restraints, and carries with it the power to embarrass and
destroy. Post. Tel. Co. v. Charleston, 153 U. S. 692, 699;
McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27; Kehrer v. Stewart,
197 U. S. 60."
The charge of discrimination against the statute was
decided to be a factor as to its validity. The use of trading
stamps and other similar devices was regarded as a
legitimate system of advertising and that to distinguish
it from other systems of advertising was-a violation of' the
equality clause of the Federal Constitution. And it was
said: "As well might the legislature classifyj separately
those who advertise in the columns of the daily papeis, by
bill boards, or by electrical signs, and impose a tax upon
them to the exclusion of others engaged in the' same business or calling who do not so advertise."

TANNER v. LITTLE.
240 U. S.

381

Opinion of the Court.

In this conclusion we think, for the reasons expressed
in Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, ante, p. 342, just decided,
that the court erred. We have been at pains to summarize
the bill in this case to show its similitude to that.
The coupons in this case, in compliance with the law of
the State of Washington (Laws of 1907, p. 742), must be
redeemed in cash if demanded by the purchaser; otherwise
in articles of merchandise selected by him. The redemption of the coupons in some instances is directly by the
merchant issuing them; in others, -it is alleged, by "a third
party, with whom said complainants have a contract for
the use of their trading stamps or coupons used in connection therewith and the redemption thereof in merchandise." These differences, however, do not affect the
principle aniounced in Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, ante,
p. 342. Whether the coupons are prepared by the issuing
merchant or prepared by another, whether they be redeemed by him or by another, is but a phase'of the system,
not affecting its essential character. And we may say
here, as we said in Rast v. Van Dem-an & Lewis, that we
are not concerned with consideration of a business in which
coupons, etc., are issued or used and not redeemed in
merchandise, that is, where they are used as a rebate
upon the price of the article or a discount upon purchases,
nor with the legality of a statute which should regulate or
prevent such use of the coupons disassociated from other
uses of them. Complainants contend for a broad use and
assertthat there cannot -legally be any limitation of their
methods of redemption, which they comprehensively
denominate the "premium system."
The opinion in, Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis is, therefore,
decisive of the contentions in this case. We said there
that there were manifest differences between the "premium system" of advertising and the other methods
enumerated and that those differences justified a difference
in measures. And this is justified not 6nly by the wide

OCTOBER TERM, 1115.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

discretion which may be, exercised in legislation but by
a rigid principle of classification. Classification is not
different in law than in other departments of knowledge.
"It is the grouping of things in speculation or practice
because they 'agree with one another in certain particulars
and differ from other things in those particulars.'.' Billings v. Illinois, 188 U. S. 97, 102. Upon what differences
.or resemblances it may be exercised depends necessarily
upon the object in view, may be narrow or wide according
to that object. Red things may be assoqiated by reason
of their redness, with disregard of all other resemblances
or of. distinctions. Such classification would be logically
appropriate. Apply it further: make a rule of conduct
depend upon it and distinguish in legislation between redhaired men and black-haired men and the classification
would immediately be seen to be wrong; it would have
only arbitrary relation to the purpose and province of
legislation. The power of legislation over the subjectmatter is hence to be considered. It may not make -the
distinction adverte-d to but it may make others the appropriateness of which, considered logically, may be challenged, for instance: between sales of stock upon margin or
for immediate or future delivery (Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S.
606); between acts directed against a regularly established
dealer and one not so established (Central Lumber Co. v.
South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157); in an inspection law, between coal mines wihere more than five men are employed
and coal mines where that or a lesser number are employed (St. Louis Cons. Coal Co. v.' Illinois, 185 'U. S.
203); and a like distinction in a workmei's compensation
law (Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v. Blagg, 235 U. S. 571); between a
combination of purchasers and a combination of laborers
(InternationalHarvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199);
between residents and non-residents (Travellers' Ins. Co.
v. Connecticut, 185 U. S. 364); in a law requiring railroads
to heat passenger coaches, between roads of 50 miles and

TANNER v. LITTLE.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

roads of that length or less (N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. v.
New York, 165 U. S. 628; see also Dow v. BeidleMan, 125
U. S. 680; Postal Telegraph Co. V. Adams, 155 U. S. 688);
between theatres according to the price of admission
(Metropolis Theatre Co. v. Chicago, 228 U. S. 61);, between
land owners as to liability for permitting certain noxious
grasses to go to seed on the lands (Missouri, Kansas &
Texas Ry. v. May, 194 U. S. 267); between businesses, in
the solicitation of patronage ,on railroad trains and at
depots (Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 79); and a distinction based on the evidence-of the qualifications of physicians (Watson v. Maryland, 218 U. S. 173, 179).
Those were instances (and others might be cited) of the
regulation of conduct and the restriction of its freedom, it
being the conception of the legislature that the regulation
and restriction was in the interest of the public welfare.
Those classifications were sustained as legal, being within
the power of the legislature over the subject-matter, and
having proper bases of community.
But the classification which was sustained in St. Louis
Coal Co. v. Illinois, 185 U. S. 203, was condemned in
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33. The statute in the latter
case required employers of more than five workers at any
one time to employ not less than 80% qualified electors or
native born citizens of the United States or of some subdivision of such. The statute was held void because there
was no authority to deal with that at which. the legislation
was aimed, And this is important to be kept in mind. If
there is no such authority, a classification, however logical,
appropriate or scientific, will not be sustained; if such
authority exist, a classification may be deficient in those
attributes, may be harsh and oppressive, and yet be within
the power of the legislature. This has been declared many
times. Let us apply the test to the case at bar. Let it be
granted that the "premium. system" is a method of
advertising, caU. there not be differences in advertising

'384

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

which may be subject to differences in legislation? Can
there not be advertising at places or at times or in kind or
effect subversive of public order or convenience? Fifth
Ave. Coach Co. v. New York, 221 U. S. 467; Commontoealth
v. McCaffertyy 145 Massachusetts, 384. However, a
decisive answer to the questions, 'need not- be given, for
we have said, in Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, ante, p. 342,
that the "premium. system" is not one of advertising
*merely. It has other, and, it may be, deleterious, consequences: It does not terminate with th bringing together
f seller and luyer, the profit of one and the desire of the
other satisfied, the-article bought and its price being equivalents., It is not so limited in purpose or effect. It has
ulterior purpose, and how it has developed complainants
\vividly represent by their averments. It appears that companies are forned; called trading stamp companies, 1 whici
extend and facilitate the schemes, making a seller of mer-chandise their agent for the distribution'of stamps to be
redeemed by them or other merchants, the profit of all
being secured through the retail purchaser who has been
,-brought under the attraction of the system. There must,
therefore, be something more in it than the giving of discounts, something More than the mere laudation of wares.
If companies--evolved from the system, as counsel say in
justification of them-are able to reap a profit. from it,
it may well "be thought there is something in it which is.
masked from the common eye and that the purchaser at
retail is made to believe that he can get more out of.the,
fund than he has put into it, something of value which is
not offset in the prices or quality of the articles which he
buys. It is certain that the prices he pays make the
'Lansburgh v. District of Columbia, 11' App.

C. 512; Attorney

General v. Spe&ry & Hutchinson Co., 110 Minnesota, 378; Louisiana v.
C. A. Underwood or Southern Merchandise Exchange, decided October 18, 1915, by the Supreme Court of Louisiana; Hewin v. Atlanta ,
121 Georgia, 723.

TANNER v. LITTLE.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

efficiency of the system and the fund, if we may individualize it, out of, which the Cost of the'instruments and
agents of the system must be defrayed and the profit to all
concerned paid. The system, therefore, has fbatures
different from the ordinary transactions of trade which
have their impulse; as we have said, in immediate and
definite desires having definite and measurable results.
There may be in them at times reckless buying, but it is
not provoked or systematized by the seller.
Complainants charge that the tax of the statute is not
upon the business but upon its incidents. The separation.
is artificial. It is the incidents which give character to the
business, affecting it with evil, it was thought, provoking
therefore against it the power of the State and taking away
from it the immunity it else might' have.
It is unimportant what the incidents may be called,
whether a method of advertising, discount giving or profit
sharing. Their significance is not in their designations but
in their influence upon the public welfare. And of this
the judgment of the legislature must prevail, though
it be controverted and opposed by arguments of strength.
Nor is there support of the system or obstruction to the
statute in declamation against sumptuary laws; nor in
the assertion that there is evil lesson in the statute, nor in
the prophecies which are ventured of more serious intermeddling with the conduct of business. Neither the decclamation, the assertion nor the prophecies can influence
a present judgment. As to what extent legislation should
interfere in affairs political philosophers have disputed
and always will dispute. It is not in our province to engage on either side, nor to pronounce anticipatory judgments. We must wait for the instance. Our present duty
is to pass upon the statute before us, and if it has been
enacted upon a belief of evils that is not arbitrary we cannot measure their extent against the estimate of the legislature. McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539. Such belief

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

has many examples in state legislation and, we have seen,
it has persisted against adverse judicial opinion. If it may
be said to be a judgment from experience as against a
judgment from speculation, certainly, from its generality,
it cannot be declared to be made in mere wantonness.
Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 160;
Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192, 204-205.
Discrimination aside, the power to enact the legislation we need not discuss, but may refer to the opinion
in Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis. Of course, it is in the exercise of the police power of the State. We will not here
define it or its limitations. As was said by Mr. Justice
Brown, in Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518, 524,
citing Rideout v. Knox, 148 Massachusetts, 368, "The
police power is not subject to any definite limitations, but
is coextensive with the necessities of the case and the safeguard of the public interests."
In the view that the license is prohibitive we may concur, and concede that such is the effect given it by the
Supreme Court of the State in Pitney v. Washington,
post, p. 387, one of the cases submitted with this one. And
we think it was competent for the State to give it that
effect. The cases cited by Judge Rudkin and those cited
in the opinion in Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis, ante, p. 342,
so established.
For answer to the other contentions which we consider
material to notice we refer to that case.
Decree reversed and case remanded with directions to
dismiss the bill.

