OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

power was conferred upon an administrative officer in
the event of insolvency to close'tli doors, of a bank without awaiting judicial proceedings, and that the observation on that subject by the court below was an adverse
decision of such, question, we think it suffices to state the
proposition to demonstrate its want of merit. Noble State
,Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Shallenbergerv. FirstState
Bank, 219 U. S. 114.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

BANNING COMPANY v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE
OF CALIFORNIA UPON THE INFORMATION OF
WEBB, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.

No. 73. Argued January 19, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
The withdrawal from sale of lands by a State before any right is
consummated, does not amount to the impairment of the obligation
of a contract within the meaning of Article I, § 10 of the Federal
Constitution.
While an offer made by a State, though no particular person be designated, and accepted, may constitute a contract protected by the
Federal Constitution, the offer and acceptance must have the characteristics of a bargain and be conventional counterparts.
Where a State makes a general offer to sell and provides for contest
and determination of conflicting claims of parties contending for
the right to purchase, the State is not bound by its offer or precluded
from withdrawing it, until the rightful claimant is determined and
his right of purchase perfected by payment of at least an installment
of the price thereof.
Expenditures, other than payment to the State, by one intending to
accept a general offer of a State to sell public lands are but voluntary

BANNING CO. v. CALIFORNIA.
240 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

qualifications to become a purchaser and are not binding on him to
proceed to purchase or on the State to wait for him to purchase.
Although the statute of California of 1863 gave private parties the
right to acquire tide lands under certain conditions, the right was
abrogated by later statutes and the constitution of 1879, and such
abrogation was not unconstitutional under the contract clause of
the Constitution as to one who had not paid any part of the purchase
price prior thereto.
169 California, 542, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the contract clause of the Federal Constitution of legislation of California and provisions of the constitution of
1879 withdrawing state lands from sale, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. James A. Gibson, with whom Mr. Edward E. Bacon
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The proceedings for purchase taken by Phineas Banning
in 1866, under the act of 1863, created a contract with
the State of California for the purchase of the land in
accordance with that act, which could not be impaired
by any subsequent legislative action.
The State's offer to sell was accepted by filing application to purchase and this consummated a binding contract.
The decisions relied on under pre~mption laws can be
distinguished, and do not involve doctrine of contract by
offer and acceptance.
Sufficient consideration for State's contract is found in
expenditures on the faith of the offer, and implied promise
by the applicant to pay the purchase price.
Prior decisions of the California court are not binding
on this court, nor even persuasive as authority.
* The contract by offer and acceptance has been sustained
by numerous decisions under the contract clause of the
Federal Constitution.
The judgment rendered by the District Court in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

240 U. S.

contest proceedings in 1879 conclusively established the
contract right of Phineas Banning to purchase the land
in suit and that right constituted property of which he
could not be deprived by subsequent legislation without
violating both the contract clause and the due process
clause of the Federal Constitution.
None of the legislation intermediate the act of 1863
and the constitution of 1879 should be construed as
affecting the rights of an applicant under the former act
to complete his proceedings for purchase in accordance
therewith.
In support of these contentions, see Am. Exp. Co. v.
Mullins, 212 U. S. 311; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400;
Water Co. v. Boise City, 230 U. S. 84; Campbell v. Wade,
132 U. S. 34; Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; Grand Trunk
Ry. v. South Bend, 227 U. S. 544; Hall v. Wisconsin, 103
U. S. 5; Hendrick v. Lindsay, 93 U. S. 143; LouisianaR. R.
v. Behrman, 235 U. S. 164; Louisville v. Cumberland Tel.
Co., 224 U. S. 649; McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S. 102;
New York Elec. Co. v. E pire City Co., 235 U. S. 179;
New Orleans Gas Co. v. LouisianaLight Co., 115 U. S. 650;
New Orleans Water Co. v. Rivers, 115 U. S. 674; Nor. Pac.
R. R. v. DeLacey, 174 U. S. 622; Owensboro v. Cumberland
Tel. Co., 230 U. S. 58; Pennoyer -v. McConnaughy, 140
U. S. 1; Russell v. Sebastian, 233 U. S. 195; Tarpey v.
Madsen, 178 U. S. 215; Telfener v. Russ, 145 U. S. 522;
United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128; U. S. Fidelity Co. V.
United States, 209 U. S. 306; Walla Walla v. Water Co.,
172 U. S. 1; Yosemite Valley Case, 15 Wall. 77; McConnaughy v. Pennoyer, 43 Fed. Rep. 196; Anthony v. Jillson,
83 California, 296; Buckley v. Howe*, 86 California, 596;
Cadierque v. Duran, 49 California, 356; Christman v.
Brainerd, 51 California, 534; Cunningham v. Shanklin,
60 California, 118; Cushing v. Keslar, 68 California, 473;
Dillon v. Saloude, 68 California, 267; Garfield v. Wilson,
74 California, 175; Goldberg v. Thompson, 96 California,

BANNING CO. v. CALIFORNIA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

117; Hinckley v. Fowler, 43 California, 56; Lobree v.
Mullan, 70 California, 150; McFaul v. Pfankuch, 98
California, 400; Perri v. Beaumont, 9i California, 30;
Tyler v. Houghton, 25 California, 27; Wright v. Langenour,
55 California, 280; Youle v. Thomas, 146 California, 537.
Mr. Albert Lee Stephens and Mr. J. A. Anderson, with
whom Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of
California, and Mr. W. H. Anderson were on the brief,
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Suit brought by the State of California to quiet title
to certain lands embraced in a patent issued, under certain statutes of the State authorizing the sale of tide lands.
The lands involved constituted location No. 57 of the
state tide lands, and the State alleged that they had been
at all times a portion of the inner bhy of San Pedro and
below the line of ordinary high tide; that they were partly
within the limits of the City of San Pedro and partly
within the limits of Wilmington; that prior to and since
1870 no portion of them had ever been reclaimable for
agricultural or other purposes and that the State had at
all times withheld them from sale.
The intermediate pleadings we may omit. The defendants (plaintiffs in error here) filed separate answers,
the pertinent parts of which may be summarized as follows: They denied the title of the State, the location of
the lands as alleged or their relation 'to the cities of San
Pedro and Wilmington, or that they were not susceptible
of reclamation for agricultural purposes or that they had
been withheld from sale by the. State.
For an affirmative defense it was alleged that one Phineas Banning, in February, 1866, made application to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

State under an act of its legislature for the disposition
of state lands to purchase. the lands in controversy; that
he possessed the qualifications to apply to purchase the
lands and on February 15, 1866, did apply to purchase
them under an act of the legislature providing for their
sale approved April 27, 1863, and in conformity to his
application and the provisions of § 7 of that act caused a
survey of the lands to be made and a plat and field notes
thereof to be completed by the county surveyor of Los
Angeles County and paid a large sum of money to such
surveyor April 2, i866, for legal fees; that he caused a
copy of his application and affidavit to be filed in the
office of the surveyor general of the State February 15,
1866; that on said date he subscribed the oath required by
§ 28 of the act of 1863 and complied with § 29; that by
reason of such proceedings he acquired the title to the
lands and a contract was created between him and the
State whereby the State agreed 'to sell him the lands upon
the terms provided in the act of 1863. That he complied
with all' other provisions Of the act and of other acts,
and that a patent was duly issued to him and the title
thereby conveyed to him and by him conveyed to defendants. That the State by this action is attempting to
impair the obligation -of the contract between the State
and Banning in violation of Article I, § 10, of the Constitution of the United States.
That subsequently other applications were made to
purchase other lands in the vicinity of location No. 57
which overlapped and conflicted with that made by Banning; that one of said applicants, .to-wit, one William
McFadden, made a demand upon the surveyor general
of the State that in pursuance of § 3413 of the Political
Code of the State the contest between the applicants be
referred to the proper court for judicial determination
of the question as to which of the applicants was entitled
to a patent from the State. That in accordance with

BANNING CO. v. CALIFORNIA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the requests the surveyor general referred the contest
to-the District Court of the Seventeenth Judicial District
of the State in and for the County of Los Angeles and
in pursuance thereof McFadden commenced an action
against Banning and certain other parties and it was
therein adjudged that Banning was .entitled to purchase
and to have a patent issued to him and that Banning was
entitled to the approval of his survey and application
as to all of the lands described in his amendatory application of January 2, 1878, except a certain described
tract, and was entitled to comply with the further provisions of the law to purchase and receive a patent
therefor.
That Banning, on April 5, 1880, paid the first installment on the purchase price of the land, and, on April 10,
1880, a certificate of purchase was issued to him whereby
it was certified that he had in all respects complied with
the law and was entitled to receive a patent; that subsequently, on December 14, 1881, another certificate was
issued certifying that full payment had been made to
the State and that the decree of the court in the contest
proceedings had been fully complied with and that he
was entitled to a patent, and thereafter on December 16,
1881, a patent was duly issued. in accordance with the
certificate and the decree of the District Court and duly
recorded in the .office of the recorder of Los Angeles
County.
That the defendants have succeeded to the rights of
Banning and have become vested with a fee simple title
to the lands paramount to the claim of the State or of
any person; that the State is estopped by the judgment
of the District Court and the proceedings from claiming
any right, title or interest in them or any of them and
that the patent and proceedings are a bar to the claim
of the State or of any one.
As a third defense §§ 312, 315, 316, 317, 318 and 319

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of ttiCourt.

240 U. S.

of the Code of Procedure of the State were pleaded as a
bar to the action.
The trial court found to be true the allegations of the
State as to the character of the lands, their location within
the inner harbor of San Pedro, and that, since 1870, they
have been within two miles of the city of San Pedro and
Wilmington, being partly within the limits of those cities.
The court also found the fact of the application of
Banning as alleged, the conflict with McFadden, its reference to the District Court for decision, the decision and
judgment rendered and the subsequent proceedings had,
the payment of the purchase price of the lands and the
issue of patent to Banning. It furthor found that the"
patent was void, that no title vested thereby to any land
below ordinary high tide, that the State was not estopped
by the judgment or the subsequent proceedings and that
they did not bar the claims of the State, nor constitute
an adjudication of the matters in controversy against
the State or debar it from prosecuting this action. The
court also decided against the bar of the sections of the
Code of Procedure.
From these findings the court concluded and decreed
that the State was the owner of the lands and that the
defendants had not nor had either of them any estate or
title in them. A motion for new trial was made and denied
and on appeal the Supreme Court affirmed the judgment
and order denying the new trial.
There is no dispute about the facts. Banning complied
with the act of 1863 and subsequent acts concerning the
sale of the lands and acquired title if they had the efficacy
to convey it or were not suspended in their operation by
subsequent legislation and by the constitution of the
State adopted in 1879.1 The Supreme Court denied in
'"No individual, partnership, or corporation, claiming or possessing
the frontage or tidal lands of a harbor, bay, inlet, estuary, or other
navigable water in.
this State, shall be permitted to exclude the right

BANNING CO. v. CALIFORNIA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

some respects such efficacy and decided that all of the
right of Banning to acquire title to the lands was taken
away by the constitution of 1879, and the legislation to
which we shall presently refer.
We need not encumber the opinion with a detail of the
statutes. It is conceded and the Supreme Court has
decided that title could be acquired to the tide lands of
the State under the act of 1863, And it is conceded that
Banning proceeded regularly under that statute and acquired the title if other statutes or the constitution of
1879 did not intervene to prevent. It is upon the efficacy
of the later statutes and the constitution that the questions in the case depend.
The specEic contention of plaintiffs in error is that by
the application to purchase the lands under the act of
1863, the expenditure of money in accordance with its
provisions for a survey of the lands, the statute of 1868
and the Political Code, and the judgment in the McFadden contest, a contract between. Banning and the State
was made which the constitution of 1879 or subsequent
statutes could not impair.
The opposing contention is that no inviolable right of
purchase vested in Banning or contract occurred until
the payment by him of the purchase price of the lands
,and that such payment was after the adoption of the
constitution and legislation withdrawing the lands from
sale. In other words, that the lands were withdrawn from
sale before any right became consummated.
of way to such water whenever it is required for any public purpose, nor
to destroy or obstruct the free navigation of such water; and the legislature shall enact such laws as will give the most liberal construction to
this provision, so that access to the navigable waters of this State shall
be always attainable for the people thereof." Article XV, § 2, p. 37.
The constitution of the State has special relevancy in regard to contentions not before us. We refer to and insert it only for the sake of
completeness, it being referred to throughout the argument.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. .

Some dates are necessary to be given: Banning's application was made in February, 1866. It was allowed to
repose without attention until the contest initiated by
McFadden in April, 1878, on account of McFadden's
application that overlapped and conflicted with Banning's. Judgment was entered in this contest November 26, 1879. This judgment decided Banning's to be
the prior right. He made a first payment on the lands
March 5, 1880. The certificate was issued April 10, 1880,
and a patent executed December 16, 1881. The constitution was adopted in 1879, as we have seen. And further,
in 1872, the town of Wilmington was incorporated, and
the Sunreme Court held that by an act'passed April 4,
1870, all lands within two miles of "'any town or village'"
(Statutes of 1869-70, § 877) were excluded from sale.
This provision was repeated in the Political Code of 1872,
§ 3488, p. 532. The act of incorporation of Wilmington
was repealed in 1887 (Stats. 1887, 108, 109) but the
court said, "If in point of law Wilmington was an incorporated town during the interval between the passage
and repeal of the law, then all proceedings to purchase
the lands in question taken in that interval would be
invalid with respect to land within the two-mile limit."
This being the law, and the lands lying within two miles
of the, limits of Wilmington as incorporated by the
act of 1872, the court said, "the patent is void and
all claims of any of the defendants thereunder are
invalid."
We accept this construction of the act incorporating
Wilmington and the effect of the act of April 4, 1870, and
of § 3488 of the Political Code and the exclusion thereby
of tide lands within two miles of Wilmington from sale;
and we are brought to the short point of the effect of the
application and proceedings under it by the payment of
the first installment of the purchase price of the lands
and the other acts relied on, whether they consummated

BANNING CO. v. CALIFORNIA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a contract between the State and Banning protected by
the Constitution of the United States.
To support such conclusion plaintiffs in error cite
McConnaughy v. Pennoyer, 43 Fed. Rep. 196, in which
Judge Deady expressed the view of an Oregon statute
which offered the lands of that State for sale that-such
an application was "a written acceptance of the offer of
the State, in relation to the land of the State described
therein," and they cite the same case in this court (140
U. S. 1, 18), where that view was pronounced forcible
and might have been conclusive but for the opposing consideration that suggested itself that the bare application
itself unaccompanied by the payment of any consideration partook of the nature of a preimption claim under
the laws of the United Statbs, with reference to which it
had been held that the occupancy and improvement of
the land by the settler and the filing of the declaratory
statement of such fact conferred no vested right as against
the Government of the United States until all of the preliminary steps prescribed by law, including the payment
of the price, were complied with. Yosemite Valley Case,
15 Wall. 77, and Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187, were
cited. The court found it unnecessary to determine between those views.
.The cited cases were approved in Campbell v. Wade,
132 U. S. 34, 37, 38, and their principle applied to statutes
of the State of Texas, one offering land for sale and the
other withdrawing it before the performance of the conditions which gave a right of purchase. These conditions
were an application to the surveyor of the county in which
the land was situated to survey the land and within sixty
days after survey to file it in the General Land Office.
Within sixty days after such filing, it was provided by the
statute, it should be the right of the applicant to pay the
purchase money and upon doing so to receive patent for
the land. "But for this declaration of the act," this

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

court said, by Mr. JusticeField (p. 37) "we might doubt
whether a right to purchase could be considered as conferred by the mere survey so as to bind the State."
Considering the same statute in Telfener v. Russ, 145
U. S. 522, 532, it was said that the right was "designated
in the decision of the Supreme Court of the State as a
vested right that could not be defeated by subsequent
legislation."
Plaintiffs in error cite Nor. Pac. Ry. v. DeLacy, 174
U. S. 622, as in some way modifying the doctrine of the
Yosemite Valley Case and of Frisbie v. Whitney. That
case involved the question whether a claim of preemption
had under the circumstances stated in the oase so far
attached to the land in controversy that it did not pass
under a grant to the railroad company as land to which
the United States had "full title, not reserved, sold,
granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from preemption, or other claims or rights." It was held to have so
passed; in other words, that the claim had not attached
to the land, DeLacy not having performed the conditions
of its preemption. The case has no value in the solution
of the questions presented by the case at bar. Nor have
the other cases cited by plaintiffs in error for the proposition that an offer made by a State, though no particular
person be designated, and accepted, constitutes a contract
which will be protected by the Federal Constitution. The
proposition in its generality may be admitted. Its illustration and application in the cited cases it would protract this opinion unnecessarily to detail. It is enough to
say that the cases are not apposite. The offer and acceptance must have the characteristics of a bargain, must
be conventional counterparts, as in the cited cases, and
of which we may say generally franchises were offered
on one part and accepted on the other by the undertaking
of works costly to construct and costly to maintain and
from which the public derived great benefit.

BANNING CO. v. CALIFORNIA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But even in such case it was pointed out in Wisconsin
& Michigan Ry. v. Powers, 191 U. S. 379, 386, that the
offer of a State does not necessarily imply a contract.
It may be of encouragement merely, "holding out a hope
but not amounting to a covenant." The offer of the
State was an exemption from taxation, and the asserted
acceptance of the offer which was said to consummate a
contract was the building of a railroad, and it was observed that the "building and operating of the railroad
was a sufficient detriment or change of position to constitute a consideration if the other elements were present.
But the other elements are that the promise and the
detriment are the cbnventional inducements each for the
other. No matter what the actual motive may have
been, by the express or implied terms of the supposed
contract, thq promise and consideration must purport
to be the motive each for the other, in whole or at least
in part. It is Aot enough that the promise induces the
detriment or that the detriment induces the promise if the
other half is wanting." The "offer" and "acceptance" we
held not to constitute a contract. This comment is applicable to the case at bar, and the Supreme Court of the State
has decided, as we shall presently see, that the filing of the
application does not constitute a binding contract upon
the part of the applicant and the State.
But plaintiffs in error say that this court is not bound,
against the invocation of the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States, by the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State of California as to the construction and effect of the act of 1863 and subsequent
legislation supplementing its provisions. Louisiana R. &
N. Co. v. New Orleans, 235 U. S. 164; New York Electric
Lines v. Empire City Co., 235 U. S. 179. And they insist

that the language of the act explicitly offered the lands
for sale, which offer was accepted by Banning through
his application, the oath taken by him and tne expendi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1915. .
Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

tures made by him, and that this construction has supporting strength from the judicial contest authorized by
the act and that the judgment rendered in such contest
was effective not only against the losing contestant but
against the -State as well.
If we apply the analogy of the preemption laws we shall
have to reject immediately the contention based on the
proceedings aside from the judgment rendered upon a
conflict of applications, and against the asserted effect
of such judgment we have also the'analogy of a conflict
of claims under the mining laws of the United States.
In other words, the State made an offer to sell, which
might have been perfected into an inviolable right, and
provided for a contest of conflicting claims, not as against
itself, but as to the rights of the contending parties. The
rightful claimant being determined and his right of purchase perfected, the State is then bound by its offer and
is then and not until then precluded from legislation
withdrawing it. And the right of purchase is perfected
only-by the payment of some installment of the purchase
price of the land. It is only then that the State has received anything of value from the applicant. What he
has done prior, the expenditures he has .made, are but the
qualifications to become a purchaser, not binding him to
proceed, nor binding the State to wait for that which may
never be done before it determines on other uses or disposition of the lands. And to wait might mean serious
embarrassment. We have seen, in the case at bar that
Banning applied first in 1866. His application was permitted to repose in the files of the county or state officers
until 1878, when activity upon it was provoked by another
application.
Plaintiffs in error have been upable to cite a single
decision in sanction of their contention. The Supreme
Court refers to one (Hinckley v. Fowler, 43 California, 56,
63), decided in 1872, as possibly being urged to support it.

BANNING CO. v. CALIFORNIA.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

If we may venture to express our understanding of that
case we should say that it is seriously disputable if it so
decides. However, the court said that the case, so far as
it announced such view, that is, "so far as it announces
the rule that the filing of the application creates a contract
binding on the state before any part of the price is paid,
must be considered as overruled by the later decisions. "
Messenger v. Kingsbury, 158 California, 611, 615, and cases
cited. Also Polk v. Sleeper, 158 California, 632. And these
cases have become rules of property and factors in decision
-indeed, would determine it, even if we had doubt of the
construction of the applicable statutes, under the ruling of
Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, and many subsequent
cases.
A somewhat confused contention is made that by the
act of March 28, 1868, and under the Political Code the
rights of plaintiffs in error were preserved, and yet it
seems to be contended that, though both act and code
contain a provision excluding from their operation' tide
lands within two miles of any town or village, such provision is not applicable to lands theretofore applied for.
The contentions we may suppose were rejected by the
Supreme Court. And plaintiffs in error say that a decision
either way cannot affect their "prior contention, that a
binding contract of sale was created by the acceptance
of the State's offer, through the filing in 1866 of the application to purchase under the act of 1863." Further
discussion of the contentions is therefore unnecessary.
Nor is further discussion of the effect of the judgment
in the contest proceedings necessary. If by the incorporation of Wilmington in 1872 the act of April, 1870, and the
Political Code of 1872 which excluded all tide lands within
two miles of Wilmington became effective, the lands were
withdrawn from sale and plaintiffs in error could have
acquired no rights by proceedings subsequent to such
incorporation. This, we have seen, was the judgment of

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Syllabus.

240 U. S.

the Supreme Court of the State. The court had decided
in prior cases that the State was not a party to the contest
(Cunningham v. Crowley, 51 California, 128, 133); that the
contest decided only the rights of the opposing parties
(Berry v. Cammet, 44 California, 347; Polk v. Sleeper,
supra).
The judgment undoubtedly is conclusive between the
parties, determines their rights, as between themselves,
and establishes the privilege to purchase the lands acquired by -the prior application, even against the State
"so long as the statute remained in force," to use the language of Hinckley v. Fowler, supra. This explanation
may be given of all the cases cited by plaintiffs in error
upon the effect of the judgment.' As long as the statute
existed, rights could be acquired under it. Upon its
repeal or limitation such opportunity was taken away.
Judgment affirmed.

CARNEGIE STEEL COMPANY v. UNITED- STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 171. Argued January 21, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
Ability to perform a contract is of its very essenee, and delay resulting
from absence of such ability is not due to unavoidable causes .such
as fires, storms, labor strikes, actions of the United States, etc.,
as enumerated in the contract involved in this action.
The fact that a contractor engaging to deliver armor plate of specified
qualifications as to thickness, hardness, etc., was delayed by un'Cadierque v. Duran, 49 California, 356; Christman v. Brainerd, 51
California, 534; Wright v. Laugenour, 55 California, 280; Dillon v.
Saloude, 768 California, 267; Cushing v. Keslar, 68 California, 473;
Garfield v. Wilson, 74 California, 175; Anthony v. Jilson,83 California,
296, 299-:3(0; Goldberg v. Thompson, 96 California, 117.

