236

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.
Counsel for Parties.

240 U. S.

LUSK ET AL., RECEIVERS OF ST. LOUIS & SAN
FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY, v. BOTKIN,
SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE STATE OF
KANSAS.
J'RROR. TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.

No. 451. Submitted January 7, 1916.-Decided February 21, 1916.
The objections to the constitutionality of the provisions of ch. 135,
Kansas Laws of 1913, taxing foreign corporations doing business in
Kansas for such privilege measured on the proportion of its stock
used in that State, resting in this case exclusively on the asserted invalidity under the commerce and due process clauses of similar provisions of the same statute in regard to domestic corporations doing
interstate and intrastate business, and those objections having been
found untenable (Kansas City & Fort Scott Ry. v. Kansas, ante,
p. 227), the sole basis of attack on such provisions as to foreign corporation fails and they cannot be held unconstitutional in this action.
95 Kansas, 271, affirmed.

facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Federal Constitution and the construction and application of the statute of Kansas of 1913 imposing taxes on
foreign corporations, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. R. R. Vermilion and Mr. W. F. Evans for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. S. M. Brewster, Attorney General of the State of
Kansas, Mr. James P. Coleman, Mr. W. P. Montgomery
and Mr. J. L. Hunt for defendants in error.
Mr. Paul E. Walker filed a brief on behalf of the
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway, as amicus curim
by leave of the court.

LUSK v. KANSAS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The plaintiffs in error, the receivers of a railroad corporation organized under the laws of the State of Missouri,
brought this action to recover the sum of $2,500, alleged
to, have been paid under protest to the Secretary of State
of the State of Kansas as a tax upon foreign corporations
imposed by Chapter 135 of the Laws of 1913. A general
demurrer to the petition was sustained, and, as the plaintiff declined to plead further, judgment was rendered
in favor of the defendant. This judgment was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State. 95 Kansas, 271.
The act above mentioned (ยง2) requires "every foreign
corporation, for profit, now or hereafter doing business
in this State, and owning or using a part or all of its capital
in this State, and subject to compliance with the laws
relating to the admission of foreign corporations to do
business in Kansas"' to make annual report, setting forth
certain facts, to the Secretary. of State. It is further provided that "upon the filing of such report the secretary
of state, from the facts thus reported and any other facts
coming to his' knowledge bearing upon the question,
shall determine the proportion of the issued capital stock
of the company represented by its property and business
in Kansas, and shall charge and collect from such company, in addition to the initial fees, for the privilege of
exercising its franchise in Kansas, an annual fee upon
that proportion of such foreign corporation's issued capital stock as is devoted to its Kansas business." The
amount of the fee is graduated *according to the amount
of the issued capital stock "used in Kansas." The minimum annual fee is $10, when the issued capital stock so
used does not exceed $10,000; and the maximum annual
fee is $2,500, when the issued capital stock so used exceeds
$5,000,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1915.

Opinion of the Court.

240 U. S.

Construing these. provisions of the act, and answering
the objection that as to a railroad company, and other
foreign corporations, doing both a local and an interstate
business, the act was invalid because it undertook to
regulate interstate commerce, the Supreme Court of
Kansas said in State v.'Sessions, 95 Kansas, 272, 275:
"The requirements of the statute are imposed on such
foreign corporations doing business in this State as are
'subject to compliance with the laws relating to the adission of foreign corporations to do business in Kansas.'
(ยง 2.) Corporations which are engaged solely in interstate commerce are therefore wholly exempt from all
its provisions, and those which do both an interstate and
an intrastate business are exempt so far as concerns the
former. The phrases 'that proportion of such foreign
corporation's issued capital stock as is devoted to its
Kansas business' (ยง 2), and 'the issued capital stock used
in Kansas,' refer to the amount of capital invested in
doing a purely local business. The total capital of the
company is involved only as a basis for arriving at a
reasonable estimate of the capital devoted to transportation originating and ending in Kansas."
In the instant case, the objections to the tax upon the
foreign corporation rest entirely upon the asserted invalidity of the tax imposed by the same statute upon
domestic corporations; it is insisted that the foreign corporation had complied with statutory conditions entitling
it to be treated not less favorably, and that, if the tax
laid by the statute upon domestic corporations is invalid,
the tax laid upon the foreign corporation cannot be sus.tained. Apparently,, no other contention was presented
to the Supreme Cqurt of the State (95 Kansas, 271).
And, accordingly, in the brief of the plaintiffs in error
in this court,' the questions involved are stated to be:
(a) that the act under which the tax was demanded is
unconstitutional because "when applied to railroad

LUSK v. KANSAS.
240 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

-companies organized under the laws of the State of Kan=
sas," owning lines extending into other States, the act
places a burden upon interstate commerce and undertakes to tax property outside the State; (b) that the act
seeks "to place a tax upon the entire capital stock of
domestic corporations owning and operating railroads
in Kansas and other States," that it thereby attempts
to tax property outside the State in contravention of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and that it "is therefore void
as to domestic corporations"; and (c) that the compliance by the Missouri corporation (of which the plaintiffs
in error are receivers) with the terms of Chapter 186 of
the Laws of 1887, of Kansas, "constituted a contract
between the railroad company and the State, by which
the State bound itself not to subject the railroad company or the plaintiffs in error to any greater liabilities
than those imposed upon railroad corporations organized
under the laws of Kansas, and conferred upon such foreign
corporation complying with said act 'all the rights, privileges and franchises' of Kansas railroad corporations;"
and that it follows that, if the tax act is unconstitutional
as to domestic corporations, the imposition of the tax
in question upon the Missouri corporation "would violate
the obligations of the contract" and would deny to it
"the equal protection of the laws."
In the case of Kansas City, Fort Scott & Memphis Ry. v.
Kansas, decided this day, ante, p. 227, we have considered
the arguments against the tax imposed by the statute
upon domestic corporations, and we have found the objections to be untenable. Thus, the sole basis for the
attack made by the plaintiffs in error upon the statute
fails, and the judgment must be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

