OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS
COLEMAN, SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION

v. PACCAR INC.

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY

No. A-651.

Decided February 2, 1976

Application by the Secretary of Transportation to vacate the Court
of Appeals' order staying the operation of a certain motor vehicle
safety standard, which was before the court upon respondents'
petition for review, is granted, where it appears that the Court
of Appeals in ordering the stay failed to consider the likelihood
of respondents' success on the merits, and the Secretary has
demonstrated that irreparable harm might result from the stay.

Circuit Justice.
Applicant Secretary of Transportation has moved to
vacate a stay order entered by the United States Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in a case presently pending before that court. The case arose in that court by
reason of a petition for review of amendments to a motor
vehicle safety standard promulgated by the Secretary's
delegate on November 12, 1974, and scheduled to take
effect on March 1, 1975. (MVSS-121; see 49 CFR § 571.121). The original petition for review in the Court of
Appeals was filed by respondent PACCAR on January 3,
1975, and meanwhile two other challenges to the same
standard filed in two other Courts of Appeals were transferred to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
and consolidated with PACCAR's challenge. PACCAR
moved to stay the effective date of the regulation in the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, but its motion
was denied on February 10, 1975. Oral argument on the
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

424 U. S.

merits of the petition for review was set by the Court of
Appeals for January 16, 1976. In December 1975, the
Secretary's delegate gave notice that he proposed to modify the standard in question, and the Secretary moved in
the Ninth Circuit to postpone oral argument until after
the modification. The Court of Appeals advised counsel
for the Secretary to appear at oral argument on January
16, 1976, as scheduled.
Following oral argument, the Court of Appeals entered
the following order:
"IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that [the motor
vehicle safety standard] is stayed for a period of
sixty days, this stay to remain in effect thereafter
pending further order of this court upon the application of any party."
It is incumbent upon me first to determine whether I
have jurisdiction to grant the relief requested by the
Secretary. This case does not come before me in the
usual posture of a stay application, where a court of appeals has rendered a judgment disposing of a case before
it and the losing litigant seeks a stay of the judgment of
the court of appeals pending the filing of a petition for
certiorari to review that judgment in this Court. There
the question is whether four Justices are likely to vote
to grant certiorari, and what assessment is to be made
of the equities pertinent to the grant of such interim
relief. Edelman v. Jordan, 414 U. S. 1301 (1973)
(REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
Here the Court of Appeals has not finally disposed of the case; indeed, it has
not ruled on the merits nor apparently rescheduled oral
argument on the question presented by the petition for
review of the safety standard.
Pursuant to Rules 50 and 51 of this Court I have
authority as Circuit Justice to take any action which
the full Court might take under 28 U. S. C. § 1651. But

COLEMAN v. PACCAR INC.
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

even the full Court under § 1651 may issue writs only in
aid of its jurisdiction. The Secretary contends that the
Court of Appeals' stay order is the equivalent of a preliminary injunction which, if issued by a three-judge
district court, would be reviewable here. Certainly the
full Court, in the exercise of its normal appellate jurisdiction, has noted probable jurisdiction, heard argument,
and written opinions in cases where the district court
has issued only a preliminary injunction. See Brown v.
Chote, 411 U. S. 452 (1973); Withrow v. Larkin, 421 U. S.
35 (1975). But in each of those cases the action of the
District Court was made appealable to this Court by
statute. 28 U. S. C. § 1253. There is no similar provision for appeal eo nomine from an interlocutory order
of a court of appeals.
This Court has jurisdiction to review by certiorari any
case in a court of appeals, 28 U. S. C. § 1254. Although
the Secretary is not presently seeking certiorari from this
Court in order to review the stay order of the Court of
Appeals, if I have authority as Circuit Justice to vacate
the stay, it must be on the ground that the vacation of
the stay is-"in aid of this Court's jurisdiction" to review
by certiorari a final disposition on the merits of respondents' petition to review and set aside the safety standard
in question. See McClellan v. Carland, 217 U. S. 268,
279-280 (1910).
The closest opinions in point seem to be the in-chambers opinions of my Brother MARSHALL in Holtzman v.
Schlesinger, 414 U. S. 1304 (1973), and of Mr. Justice
Black in Meredith v. Fair, 83 S. Ct. 10, 9 L. Ed. 2d 43
(1962). Both opinions considered on their merits motions to vacate interlocutory stays issued by a judge or
panel of judges of a Court of Appeals; in Holtzman the
motion was denied and in Meredith it was granted. 1
think the sense of the two opinions, and likewise that of

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

424 U. S.

Mr. Justice Douglas' dissent in Schlesinger v. Holtzman,
414 U. S. 1321, 1322 (1973), is that a Circuit Justice has
jurisdiction to vacate a stay where it appears that the
rights of the parties to a case pending in the court of
appeals, which case could and very likely would be reviewed here upon final disposition in the court of appeals,
may be seriously and irreparably injured by the stay, and
the Circuit Justice is of the opinion that the court of appeals is demonstrably wrong in its application of accepted
standards in deciding to issue the stay. A narrower ri le
would leave the party without any practicable remedy
for an interlocutory order of a court of appeals which
was ex hypothesi both wrong and irreparably damaging;* a broader rule would permit a single Justice of
this Court to simply second-guess a three-judge panel
of the court of appeals in the application of principles
with respect to which there was no dispute.
The Secretary contends that since the action of the
Court of Appeals is equivalent to a preliminary injunction issued by a district court, the Court of Appeals
should be required to make the same sort of findings
*The losing litigant could, of course, petition this Court for a writ
of certiorari to review the stay order of the court of appeals.
Since the case is "in"the court of appeals within the meaning of
28 U. S. C. § 1254, the Court would presumably have jurisdiction
to grant the writ if it chose to do so in the exercise of its discretion.
New York Times Co. v. United States, 403 U. S. 942 (1971). See
also Far East Conference v. United States, 342 U. S. 570 (1952).
But the exercise of such power by the Court is an extremely rare
occurrence. Supreme Court Rule 20.
The losing litigant might likewise proceed by a motion to vacate
the stay presented to the full Court. But since my authority under
Rules 50 and 51 of the Court is coextensive with that of the Court,
if I am right in the standards which govern me in exercising jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C. § 1651, the full Court would have no
broader authority in such an instance than that which I exercise
today.

COLEMAN v. PACCAR INC.
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

before granting such a stay as are required of a district
court by Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 65. Perhaps the full Court
in the exercise of its supervisory authority could impose
such a requirement, even though no rule or statute does,
but certainly a Circuit Justice in chambers may not do
so. A court in staying the action of a lower court, see
O'Brien v. Brown, 409 U. S. 1, 3 (1972), or of an
administrative agency, Sampson v. Murray, 415 U. S.61
(1974), must take into account factors such as irreparable harm and probability of success on the merits.
But in the absence of a statute, rule, or controlling precedent there is no fixed requirement that a court recite
the fact that it has taken these into consideration, or
explain its reason for taking the action which it did.
It is thus not dispositive that the Court of Appeals
failed to specifically address in terms the factors of
irreparable harm and probable success on the merits.
But this does not mean that the Court of Appeals' action
in entering the stay is entirely beyond review. For if
the record convincingly demonstrates that the Court of
Appeals could not have considered each of these factors
at all and the effect of its decision is shown to pose a
danger of irreparable harm impairing this Court's ability
to provide full relief in the event it ultimately reviews
the action of the Court of Appeals on the merits, I
believe that I should afford the interim relief sought.
The following description of the order of the court,
and its instructions to counsel, is taken from the Secretary's application, but is not disputed in material portion
by respondents:
"When the case was called for oral argument the
court announced to the parties that it was uncertain
about the status of MVSS 121 due to the modification proposed by NHTSA [National Highway Traffic Safety Administration], that it did not under-

1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

424 U.S.

stand the contentions of the parties on the merits,
and that it was suspending the operation of MVSS
121 forthwith for a minimum period of 60 days,
after which it would continue the suspension while
entertaining appropriate motions from the parties.
The court instructed the parties to submit an order
whose terms would require the parties to agree upon
another order setting forth the issues in controversy,
the parties' position on each issue, the documents
in the record relevant to the issues, and the uncontroverted facts, or, failing such agreement, to pay
for the services of a 'master,' to be appointed by
the court, who would examine the pleadings, the
record, and the briefs and submit to the court for
approval a proposed order fixing the issues and
record for review."
I can readily understand the uncertainty of the Court
of Appeals with respect to the issues in controversy, the
parties' position on them, and the like. I have resolutely
resisted the efforts of both parties to dispel my own
uncertainty on these issues, which remains pristine.
Congress in a complex statute has imposed an arduous
burden on the Secretary's delegate, and then provided
for judicial review under the Administrative Procedure
Act, 5 U. S. C. § 701 et seq., which places enormously difficult burdens on the Court of Appeals. But the complexity of the issue does not change the time-honored
presumption in favor of the validity of the Administrator's determination, nor shift the burden of showing probable success from the shoulders of the parties who seek to
upset that determination. See FPC v. Hope Natural Gas
Co., 320 U. S.591, 602 (1944); PermianBasin Area Rate
Cases, 390 U. S.747, 767 (1968).
I do not find the Court of Appeals' direction to the
parties with respect to the formulation of issues and

COLEMAN v. PACCAR INC.
1301

1307

Opinion in Chambers

stipulation as to the record to be consistent with a finding, which must be implied since it is not expressed,
that respondents would probably succeed on the merits
of their petition to set aside the standard promulgated
by the Secretary's delegate. Moreover, applicant has
persuasively urged that the Government will suffer irreparable harm if MVSS-121 is not permitted to remain
in effect during the pendency of the litigation on the
merits. Congress' desire "to reduce traffic accidents and
deaths and injuries to persons resulting from traffic
accidents," § 1, 80 Stat. 718, 15 U. S. C. § 1381, is currently being pursued under the statutory scheme by requiring compliance with prescribed motor vehicle safety
standards at the time of vehicle manufacture. 15
U. S. C. § 1397 (a) (1). Presently, vehicles manufactured while a standard is not in effect may be later sold
or transferred without restriction and may thereby find
their way to the highways although not in compliance
with safety requirements properly deemed necessary by
the Secretary.
As long as the stay entered by the Court of Appeals
remains in effect, manufacturers are free to produce as
many vehicles as they can and so may obtain substantial
stockpiles of noncomplying vehicles for later sale. The
Secretary has represented to me that vehicle manufacturers such as respondents may, during the initial
60-day period of the Ninth Circuit's stay, be able to
produce enough vehicles to satisfy anticipated demand
for as much as a full year thereafter. I do not understand this suggestion to be seriously disputed by
respondents.
Thus, even if the stay ordered by the Court of Appeals
is ultimately dissolved and the Secretary's decision upheld on the merits, the goals of the federal motor vehicle
safety program will have been dealt a serious setback.

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

424 U. S.

Effective implementation at the manufacturing stage of
the congressionally mandated safety program will have
been delayed for a year or more. And the natural desire
on the part of operators to obtain a fleet of the cheaper,
noncomplying vehicles while they are still available may
cause increased purchases of such vehicles now, resulting
in a subsequent prolonged depression in the market for
complying vehicles if and when the safety standard is
again effective. This predictable eventuality will further
impede Congress' intention to promote improved highway safety as expeditiously as is practicable.
The Secretary has, in my opinion, therefore not only
shown that the Court of Appeals did not evaluate the
likelihood of respondents' success on the merits, but has
in addition shown that the harm flowing from the stay
issued by the Court of Appeals could not be redressed
by an ultimate decision, either in that court or this, in
his favor on the merits.
The Secretary's motion to vacate the stay order
entered by the Court of Appeals on January 16, 1976, is
therefore granted, without prejudice to the right of
respondents or any of them to renew their application
for a stay of the standard in the Court of Appeals agreeably to the rules and practices of that court.

