BRADLEY v. LUNDING

1309

Opinion in Chambers

BRADLEY ET AL. V. LUNDING, CHAIRMAN, STATE
BOARD OF ELECTIONS COMMISSIONERS,
ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-695 (75-1146).

Decided February 17, 1976

Application by appellant independent candidates for judicial office
in Illinois for stay, pending this Court's disposition of appeal, of
Illinois Supreme Court's judgment reversing Circuit Court's order
enjoining appellee State Board of Elections Commissioners from
conducting a lottery to assign ballot positions in accordance with
Board regulation prescribing lottery system for breaking ties resulting from simultaneous filing of petitions for nomination to
elective office, is denied, where there is insufficient indication of
unfairness or irreparable injury and (because the questions presented by the appeal are capable of repetition) no suggestion
that the forthcoming election will moot the case.
MR.JuSTICE STEVENS,

Circuit Justice.

On February 13, 1976, appellants filed an application
for a stay of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois entered on January 19, 1976, reversing an order entered by the Circuit Court for the Seventh Judicial Circuit, Sangamon County, Ill., on January 12, 1976,
enjoining the defendant officers of the Illinois State
Board of Election Commissioners from conducting a lottery for the purpose of assigning ballot positions in accordance with Regulation 1975-2 adopted by the State
Board of Elections on November 21, 1975.
Regulation 1975-2 prescribes a lottery system for
breaking ties resulting from the simultaneous filing of
petitions for nomination to elective office.' Appellants
The regulation provides in part:
"1. The names of all candidates who filed simultaneously for the
same office shall be listed alphabetically and shall be numbered
consecutively commencing with the number one which shall be as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

424 U. S.

are independent candidates for judicial office who argue
that the regulation increases the probability that their
names will appear in the bottom portion of the ballot
rather than in the middle portion, and therefore that
their federal constitutional rights are impaired.2 This
consequence flows from the fact that candidates filing a
group petition for the same office are treated as one for
lottery purposes.
As I understand the regulation, it also increases the
signed to the candidate whose name is listed first on the alphabetical
list; provided, however, that candidates filing a group petition for
the same office shall be treated as one in the alphabetical listing
using the name of the first candidate for such office to appear on
the petitions as the name to be included in the alphabetical list....
"2. All ties will be broken by a single drawing ......
2 Two separate election
contests are involved. Ten judges are
to be selected by the voters of the city of Chicago and 15 by the
voters of Cook County. With respect to the municipal election, at
the opening of the filing period, 14 candidates filed contemporaneous
petitions for Democratic nominations for the 10 Chicago judgeships.
Four of these filed individual petitions; the other 10 filed a single
group petition. Pursuant to the lottery procedure prescribed by
the regulation, see n. 1, supra, each of the individual petitions, as
well as the group petition, had one chance in five of being drawn
for the top position on the ballot. Thus, each individual candidate's
chance of receiving the first position was considerably better than
if all 14 names were treated separately in the drawing. On the
other hand, since the group petition also had one chance in five of
being drawn first, the four independents ran the risk that if that
should happen, none of them could appear in any of the first 10
positions.
Appellants' statistical evidence indicates that if the names of all
14 municipal candidates were placed in the lottery on an individual
basis, each of the appellants would have only a 28.6-percent chance
(4 out of 14) of being below the top 10, whereas the regulation increases that chance to 50 percent. On the other hand, each of them
now has a 50-percent chance of being among the top four names on
the ballot, whereas on a completely independent basis, each would
have only a 28.6-percent chance.

BRADLEY v. LUNDING
1309

Opinion in Chambers

probability that each of the appellants' names will appear in the top portion of the ballot rather than the middle portion. Thus, the adverse effect of increasing the
probability of an especially unfavorable position is offset
by the beneficial effect of increasing the probability of an
especially favorable position.' Although there may be
undesirable consequences of a regulation which permits
organization candidates to be grouped in sequence on the
ballot, I do not understand the Jurisdictional Statement
to present any question as to the propriety of that feature, in and of itself, of the regulation. The questions
presented relate only to the impact of the regulation on
the ballot positions of the individual appellants.' With
respect to that matter, I find insufficient indication of
unfairness or irreparable injury to warrant the issuance
of a stay against enforcement of the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Illinois. Presumably because the
questions presented are capable of repetition, appellants
8I
do not suggest that the advantage precisely offsets the disadvantage; for no doubt, when voters are to choose 10 candidates
from a long list of unfamiliar names, there is a risk that many will
simply pick the first 10. Nevertheless, the difference between the
disadvantage and the advantage hardly seems significant enough to
warrant either the emergency attention of this entire Court, or a
summary substitution of my judgment for the unanimous appraisal
of the problem by the Justices of the Supreme Court of Illinois.
4As stated at p. 3 of the Jurisdictional Statement, the questions
presented by the appeal are:
"Does the federally-protected right to equal treatment in the assignment of state ballot positions apply only to the top ballot position? Or does it apply to the second and successive positions as
well, at least where more than one candidate will be elected to the
same office?
"Where a state system for assigning ballot positions increases the
likelihood that politically-favored candidates will obtain the higher
ballot positions, does that system deny due process, equal protection
and political rights as guaranteed by the federal Constitution?"

1312

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Opinion in Chambers

424 U. S.

do not suggest that there is any danger that the election
will moot the case; accordingly, the stay need not issue
to protect our jurisdiction.
The motion for stay is denied.

