A' THE UNITED STATES.
riing quite new, is the question as to barring the entail. The his- 1826.
tory of barring entails in the Provinces is material. If there had
not been provincial laws to regulate the barring of entails, it might U. S.V.Bank
have been proper to have supported the mode of baring by fines
Smith.
and recoveries in England. The necessity of the case might,
perhaps, hbive justified it. But the provincial laws do not apply
to the seignory and proprietorship of Maryland. The question as
to them is entirely new, and of great difficulty. The pains taken
to show, that a recovery might have been suffered in the Court of
the Castle of Windsor, proves the force of the argument of necessity as to barring by alienation. The case of descendible freeholds, the entails of which are barred in that way, may have influence on the present case.
" The case was ordered to stand for argument a second time
next Michaelmas term ; and Lord Mansfield said, that, probably,
several arguments would be necessary.-,

(PaumissoaR NoTE.

PLEADINGS.]

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY, OF
THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES against
SMITH.
On a demurrer to evidence, the judgment of the Court stands in the
place of the verdict of the jury; and the defendant may take advantage of any defects in the declaration, by motion in arrest of
judgment, or by writ of error.
R seems, that, as against the maker of a promissory note, or against
the acceptor of a bill of exchange, payable at a particular place,
no averment in the declaration, or proof at the trial, of a demand
of payment at the place designated, is necessary.
But, as against the endorser of a bill or note, such an averment and
proof, is, in general, necessary.
Where the bill or note is made payable at a particular bank, and the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

bank itself is the holder, such averment and proof maybe dispensed
with ; and all that is necessary is, for the bank to examine the account of the maker with them, in order to ascertain whether he has
U S. B-l~uk
V.
any funds in their hands.
Smith.
On'a demurrer to evidence, the Court is substituted in the place of
the jury as judges of the facts, and every thing which the jury might
reasonably infer from the evidence, is to be considered as admitted
The practice of demurring to evidence is to be discouraged, and
Courts will be extremely liberal in their inferences where the party
takes the question of fact from the appropriate tribunal.
Proof necessary to support an action against the endorser of a bill or
note.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District
of Columbia.
Feb. 7th.

This cause was argued by Mr. Lear, for the
plaintiffs,a and by Mr. Taylor, for the defendants.'

Feb. 13th.

Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the judgment
of the Court.
This case comes before the Court on a writ
of error to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia, and the' questions presented for'consideration grow out of a demurrer to the evidence, and out of exceptions taken to the declaration.
The action is by the plaintiffs, as endorsees,
a He cited 2 H. BI. 509. 3 Mas. Rep. 403. 3 Mass. Rep.
524. 12 Mass. Rep. 403. 8 Mass. Rep 480. 1 Wheat. Rep.

Dougl. Rep. 132. 218. 1 Johns. Rep. 241. 5 Johns.
,Rep. 1. 2 rash. Reut. 253.
b He cited 2 Brod. Bingh. 165. 17Johns. Rep. 248. CMtty
on Bilk, 321.
373.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

againstthe defendant, as endorser of a promissory note drawn by William Young.

The note

1826.
U. S. Bank

is made payable at the office of discount and dev.
Smith.
city
the
in
States,
United
the
of
posit of the Bank
of Washington. And the questions which have
been raised and argued, relate, in the first place, to
the sufficiency of the averment in the declaration
of a demamd of payment of the drawer of the
note; and, secondly, to the sufficiency of the
evidence to sustain the plaintiffs' right of recovery. It is alleged, however, on the part of the
plaintiffs, that this Court cannot look beyond the
demurrer, to the evidence, and inquire into defects in the declaration. This position cannot
that
The arule,
be sustained. The doctrine of the King's 0Bench, upon
dernurin England, in the case of Cort v. Birkbeck, rr to evidence, the party cannot ob(Dougl. Rep. 208.) that, upon a demurrer to evi- ject
to the
P

dence, the party cannot take advantage 0of any applicable
pleadings, not

objections of the pleadings, does not apply. By here.
a demurrer to the evidence) the Court in which
the cause is tried is substituted in the place of
the jury And the only questionI is, whether the
evidence is sufficient to maintain the issue. And
the judgment of the Court upon such evidence,
will stand in the place of the verditct of the jury.
And, after that, the defendant may take advantage of defects in the declaration, by motion in
arrest of judgment, or by' writ of error. But,
the present case being brought here on writ of
error, the whole record is under the consideration of the Court; and the defendant, having the
judgment of the Court below in his favour, may
avail himself of all defects in the declaration,

174

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that are not deemed to be cured by the verdict.

1826.
U. S. Bank

V.

Smith.

The objectior to the declaration is, that it
does not contain an averment, that a demand of

payment of the maker of the note, was made at
the place where it was made payable.
It is a general rule in pleading, that where any
Rule of pleading as to necessary
aver- fact is necessary to be proved on the trial, in orments.
der to sustain the plaintiffs' right of recovery, the
declaration must contain an averment substantially of such fact, in order to let in the proof.
But the declaration need not contain any averment which it is not necessary to prove. For
the purpose, therefore, of determining whether
the declaration in this case is substantially defective, for want of an express averment that demand of payment of the maker was made at the
office of discount and deposit of the Bank of
the United States, in the city of Washington, it
is proper to inquire whether proof of that fact
was indispensably necessary to entitle the plaintiffs to recover.
How far an
Whether, where the suit is against the maker
- of a promissory note, or the acceptor of a bill of
Pdoof of
mand of payment at the exchange, payable at a particular place, it is nedcsg
place
1
nated, as -cessary to aver -a demand of payment at such
gaint
ofho place, and, upon the trial, to prove such demand,
mnaker ofa
note, or ac-is a question upon which conflicting opinions
ceptor of a bill,
is necessary. have been entertained in the Courts in Westminster Hall, But, that question may, perhaps, be
considered at rest in England, by the decision
in the late case of Rowe v. Young, (2 Brod. "
Bingh. 165.) in the House of Lords. It wa,,
avermnet,

or

OF THE UNITED STATES.

there held, that if a bill of exchange be accepted 1826.
payable at a particular place, the declaration in U. S. Bank
v.
an action on such bill against the acceptor, must
aver presentment'at that place, and the averment Smith.
must be proved. A contrary opinion has been
entertained by Courts in this country, that a demand on the maker of a note, or the acceptor of
a bill payable at a specific place, need not be
averred in the declaration, or proved on the trial.
That it is not a condition precedent to the plaintiffs' right of recovery. As matter of practice,
application will generally be made at the place
appointed, if it is believed that funds have been
there placed to meet the note or bill. But, if
the maker or acceptor has sustained any loss by
the omission of the holder to make such application for payment at the place appointed, it is matter of defence to be set up by plea, and proof.
(4 Johns. Rip. 183. 17 Johns. Rep. 248.)
This question, however, does not necessarily
arise in the case now before the Court, and we
do not mean to be understood as expressing any
decided opinion upon it, although we are strongly inclined to think, that, as against the maker
or acceptor of such a note or bill, no averment,
or proof of demand of payment at the place designated, would be necessary.
agin.tofthes.
But, when recourse is had to the endorser of a e-Asndorser
promissory note, as in the present case, very dif- bill or niote, an
ferent considerations arise.

averment, and

dof paypoof of
He is not the origi- anand

nal afid real debtor, but only surety. His un- ment,
the
place atdJesigdertaking is not general, like that of the maker, at, ,'s'in
"
but conditional, that if, upon due diligence hav- 3s al. '

176

1826.

CASES IN-THE SUPREME COURT

ing been used against the maker, payment is not

U.U. S. Bank received, then the endorser becomes liable to pay.
This due diligence is a condition precedent, and
v.
Smith.

an indispensable part of the plaiiiiti'

title, and

right of recovery, against the endorser. And
when, in the body of the note, a place of payment is designated, the endorser has a right to
presume, that the maker has provided funds at
such place to pay the note, and has a right to
require of the holder to apply for payment at
such place. And whenever a note is made payable at a bank, and the bank itself is not the
holder, an averment, and proof of the demand
at the place appointed in the note, are indispenHow far such sable. In the present case, the bank at which
an avetment
and proof are the note is made payable is the holder, and the
where the note question arises, whether, in shch case, an averis made paya mentl
pranoaeoec
at a bank, men" and proof of a formal demand are necesbleS
sou
I
and the bank
is the holder of sary. If no such proof could be required, the
• e note.
averment would be immaterial, and the want of
it could not be taken advantage of upona writ
of error.
In the case of iS.aunderson and Others v. Judge,
(2 H. BI. Rep. 509.) the plaintiffs, at whose
house the note was made payable, being themselves the holders of the note, it was held to be
a sufficient demand for them to turn to their books,
and see the maker's account with them, and it
was deemed a sufficient refusal, to find that the
maker had no effects in their hands. So, in the
case of the Berkshire Bank v. Jone., (6 Mass.
Rep. 524.) decided in the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, Chief Justice Parsons.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in delivering the opinion of the Court, said, that, 1826.
"the plaintiffs being the holders of the note, we.U.-. S'-Bank
must presume it was in their bank, and there it
.v.
was made payable. They were not bound to Smith.
look up the maker, or to demand payment of
him at any other place. The defendant, by his
endorsement, guarantied, that on the day of payment the maker would be at the bank and pay
the note, and.if he did not pay it there, be agreed
he would be answerable for it without previous
notice of the default of the maker." The rule
here laid down has received the sanction of that
Court in subsequent cases, (12 lass. Rep. 404.
14 Mass. Rep. 556.) and is founded in good
sense and practical convenience, without in any
manner prejudicing the rights of the maker, or
the endorser of the note. The endorser, knowing that the maker has bound himself to pay the
note at a place appointed, has a right to expect
that he will provide funds at that place to take
up the note; and he will be more likely to be exonerated from his liability, by having the demand
made there, than upon the maker personally.
But, if the bank where the note is made payable
is the holder, and the maker neglects to appear
there when the note falls due, a formal demand
is impracticable by the default of the maker. All
that can in fitness be done, or ought to be required, is, that the books of the bank should be
examined, to ascertain whether 'the maker had
any funds in their hands; and, if not, there was a
default, which gave to the holder a right to look
VOL. Xr.

23

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

to the endorser for payment.

U. S. Bank

Y.

Slith.
Wherb
is

bank

And even this ex-

amination of the books was not required in the

cases cited from the Massachusetts Reports. The
maker was deemed in default by not appearing
at the bank to take up his note when it fell due.
We should
shul

theW,
the

holdtr, it is b

only necessarybook~s
for themtoe.-certain

incline, however, to
think, that the
t

of the bank ought to be examined, to as-

whether the, maker had any balance
books, antdas- standingto
his credit; for, if he had, the bank
thor the naker would have a right to apply it to the payment of
has any funds
in their hands. tue note; and no default would be incurred by
the maker, which would give a right of action
against the endorser.
The
averment
The declaration in this case does' containaart
i " this case
alnine

fine,,t.

their

averment that the note was presented to the

maker, that he refused to pay it, and that notice
of the n n-payment was given to the endorser.
Whether this averment is broad enough to admit
all the proof necessary to sustain the action
against the endorser, is the question which arises
upon the declaration. If, by reason that the bank
where the note was made payable was the holder,
no personal presentment or demand of the
maker, could be required, the averment, so far
as it asserts such presentment, is surplusage,
and no proof was necessary to support it. What,
then, in such case, is a presentment of the note ?
It would be an idle ceremony to require the
bank to take the note from its files, and lay it
upon the counter, or make any other public exhibition of it. All that could be required is,
that the note be there, ready to be delivered up
if payment should be offered. When the note

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1_79

is held by a third person, it is practicable, and 1826.
there is a fitness in requiring thez' holder to in- U. S. Bank
v.
quire at the bank for the maker, and whether he
Smith.
note.
the
pay
to
has provided any funds there
But when the bank itself is the holder, it would
be impracticable for it to make such inquiry in
any other manner than by ascertaining that the
note was there, and examining the books to see
if the maker had any funds in the bank. If the
note was there, it was a presentment, and if the
maker had no funds in the bank, it was a refusal
of payment, according to the legal acceptation of
these terms under such circumstances.
The evidence upon the trial was introduced
under this averment without objection, and if
that is sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to recover,
the Court ought not readily to yield to technical
objectiorrs, where the defendant has had the full
benefit of whatever defence he had to make.
Under this state of the case, we think, the exception taken to the declaration cannot prevail.
And, the next inquiry is, whether the evidence to
which the defendant demurred was suficient to
sustain the action.
Ademurrer to
By this demurrer, the defendant has taken the evidence
ad,nits every
fact
questions of fact from the jury, where they prothe juryS which
mayinfer
reasonaperly belonged, and has substituted the Court in bly
from
the place of the jury, and every tling which the the evidence.
jury could reasonably infer from the evidence
demurred to, is to be considered as admitted.
of
Practice to
The language of adjudged cases on this subject demurring
is very strong, to show that the Court will be ex- the evidence
tremely liberal in their inferences, where theeandiscouraged.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

party, by demurring, will take the question from
It is a course of practice,
U. S. BanK the proper tribunal.
V. generally speaking, that is not calculated to proSmith. mote the ends of justice. If the objection to
the sufficiency of the evidence is made by way
of motion for a nonsuit, it might be removed by
testimony within the immediate command of the
plaintiff. The deficiency very often arises from
mere inadvertence, and omission to m-rke inquiries, which the witnesses examined could probably answer.
PoofrueesaIn order' to determine whether the evidence
ry to
was sufficient to support the action, it is proper
the action,
to state what proof was necessary.
The plaintiffs, to entitle them to recover, were
bound to show that they-were the endorsees and
holders of the note ; that the note was at the
bank, where it was made payable at the time it
fell due ; that the maker had no funds there to
pay the note ; and that due notice of the default
of the maker was given to the defendant;
Prnof actually
The endorsement of the note to the plaintiffs,
given
in this
case.
and that it was discounted in the office of discount and deposit of the Bank of the United
States at Washington, where it was made payable, was fully proved. And the jury would have
had a right to presume, that the note was then
at the bank, where it was discounted; and the
bank being the holder and owner of the note, the
presumption, at least 2 rimafacie,is, that it remained in the bank, to be delivered up when paid.
This establishes the two first points; and, to
show that the maker had no funds in the bank,
plpo't

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the book-keeper was examined as a witness,
who swore, that on the 19th day of July, 1817,
*when the note fell due, there was no balance to
the credit of the drawer, or either of the endorsers, on the books of the bank. And the remaining question is, whether due notice of the default
of the maker was given to the defendant. The
only objection to the sufficiency of the evidence
on this point is, that the notice of non-payment
was left at the poAt office in the city of Washington, addressed to the defendant at.Alexandria,
without any evidence that' that was his place of
residence. The testimony on this point is that
of Michael Nourse, a notary public, who swore,
that on the day the note fell due, he presented it
at the atore of the defendant, and demanded
payment of his clerk, who replied, that Mr.
Young was n.A within, and hle would not pay it.
And that, on the same :day, he put in the post
office notice of non-payment; addressed to the
defendant at Alexandria. If the defendant's
place of residence was Alexandria, it is hot denied but that due and regular notice was given
him. The notary was a sworn officer, officiall#
employed to demand payment of this note, and
it is no more than reasonable to presume that he
was instructed to take all necessary steps to
charge the endorsers. This must have been the
object in view in demanding payment of the
maker. And it is fair, also, to presume, that he
made inquiry for the residence of the defendant
before he addressed a letter to him ; for it is absurd to suppose he would direct to him at that

1826.
U. S. Bank

V.
Smith.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COIJR'

1826.
V. S. V.
Bank

Smith.

place, without some knowledge or information
ordiandwhich
there,
beingI the usual
that
lived of
transactions,
and with
nary he
course
suqhthis
the notary was, no doubt, acquainted. The jury
would, undoubtedly, have been warranted to infer, from this evidence, that the defendant's residence was in Alexandria. If that was not the
fact, this case is a striking example of the abuse
which may grow out of demurrers to evidence.
For, a single question to the witness would have
put at rest that point, one way or the other, if the
least intimation had been given of the objection.
b was, manifestly, taken fbr granted by all parties, that the defendant lived at Alexandria. And
if a party will, upon the trial, remain silent, and
not suggest an inquiry, *which was obviously a
mere omission on the part of the plaintiff, a jury
would be authorized to draw all inferences from
the testimony given, that would not be against
reason and probability; and the Court, upon a
demurrer to the evidence, will draw the same
conclusions that the jury might .have drawn.
We are, accordingly, of opinion, that the evidence was sufficient to entitle the plaintiffs to
recover. That the judgment of the Co!irt below
must be reversed, and the cause sent back, with
directions to enter judgment for the plaintiffs,
upon the demurrer to evidence, for the amount of
the note, and interest.
This cause came on, &c. On
consideration whereof, it is ORDERED and ADJUDGED, that the judgment of the said Circuit
JUDGMENT.

OF THE UNITED STATES.-

183

Court, on the demurrer to evidence in the said '1826.
cause, be reversed.

And it• is further ORDERED U. S. Bank

and ADJUDGED, that the said cause be remanded
to the said Circuit Court, with instructions that
judgment be entered there on said demurrer, for
the plaintiffs in the cause; and, further, that the
Court there do render judgment on the contin-

gent verdict found for the plaintiffs, according to
the tenor ihereof, with costs, &c."
a The demurrer to evidence is an unusual and-antiquated practice, 'which this Court, and other Courts, have recently endeavoured to discourage, as inconvenient, and calculated to suppress the
truth and justice of the cause. It is allowed or denied by the
Court, where the cause is tried, in the exercise of sound discretion, under all the circumstances of the case ; and, it seems, that
the exercise of this discretion cannot be made the foundation of a
writ of error. The party demurring is bound to admit as true,
not only all the facts proved by the evidence introduced by the
other party, but, also, all the facts which that evidence legally may
conduce to prove. It follows, that it ought never to be admitted,
where the Party demurring refuses to admit the facts which the
other side attempts to prove; nor where he offers contradictory
evidence, or attempts to establish inconsistent propositions.
(Young v. Black, 7 Cranch's Rep. 565. See also, Powling and
Others v. The United States, 4 Cranch's Rep. 219. Phill. Evid.
,216,217. Bull. N. P. c. 4. p. 313.)

Y.
Smith.

