CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

414

1826. carry into execution the decree of this Court
at the February term, 1825, to deliver certain Africans, in the said decree mentionBakof the
a,.tothethe Spanish consul for Spanish claimants,
U. States. and
Judges of that Court having been divided
Williams ~ pronounced

v.

in opinion respecting the mode of designating
the said klaves so to be delivered, and separating
them from others to be delivered to the United
States, whether the same should be made by lot,
or upon proof on the part of the Spanish claimant, it is ORDERED to be certified to the said Circuit Court of Georgia, that in executing the said
mandate, the Africans to be delivered must be
designated by proof made to the satisfaction of
that Court.

[PRACTICE.]

Plaintiff in _Error,
against
The PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS,. and COMPANY OF
THE BANK OF THE UNITED STATES, Defendants
in Error.
WILLIAMS,

Where there is a joint judgment against several defendants, and one
only sues out the writ of error without joining the others, it is irregular; but if the others refiuse to join in it, quare, whether the plaintiff may not have summons and severance ?
3famch

8th.

IN this case, in which Mr. Wright was for the

415

OF THE UNITED STATES.

plaintiff in error, and Mr. Webster, for the defendants

182 .
"V.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL stated, that the Williams.
writ of error must be dismissed, it having issued
irregularly. The judgment in the Circuit Court
of Ohio was a joint judgment, upon a joint ac'tion for money lent, against three defendants;
and the writ of error was sued out by one of the
defendants, in his own name only, without joining
the others. The Court was of opinion, that the
writ of error ought to have been in the name of
the three; and if the others should refuse to join
in it, that it would deserve consideration whether
the present plaintiff might not have summons
and severance.

Writ of error dismissed.

[PICACTICE.J

BARNES

and Others against WILLIAMS.

Where, in a special verdict, the essenti:al Ncts are not distinctly foond
by the jury, although there is sufficient evidence to establish them,
this Court will not render a judgment upon such an imperfect
special verdict, but will remand the cause to the Court below, with
directions to award a vesirefacia de noo.

THIS case was argued by Air. Wickliffe and

Feb. 6t,

