S520

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Fowle
V.

The Common Council
of Alexandria.

[DPtMURRER TO EVIDENCE.]

FOwLE

against THE

COMMON COUNCIL OF ALEXANDRIA.

No judgment can be rendered upon a demurrer to evidence until
there is a joinder in demurrer ; and issue cannot be joined upon
the demurrer so long as there is any matter of fact in controversy
between the parties.
The demurrer to evidence must state facts, and not merely the evidence conducing to prove them.
One party cannot insist upon the other party joining in demurrer,
without distinctly admitting, upon the record, every fact, and every
conclusion, which theevidence given for his adversary conduced to
prove.
Where the demurrer to evidence is defective in these respects, and
judgment has, notwithstanding, been rendered upon it for the party
dernurribg, by the Court below, the judgment will be reversed in
this Court, and a new trial awarded.
Feb. 27th.

Marc 1st.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Webster
and Mr. Swann, for the plaintiffa and by Mr.
Jones and Mr. Taylor, for the defendant But,
as it was determined by the Court upon the defects in the demurrer to evidence, it has not
been thought necessary to report the arguments
of counsel.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of

the Court.
a They cited, as to the liability of corporations in a private
action for neglect of their duties, and consequent damages sustained by individuals, Yairborougli v. Bank of England, 16 East's
Rep. 6. and Riddle v. Proprietors, &c. 7 41ass.Vep. 1().

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This is a writ of error from the Circuit Court 1826.
sitting at Alexandria for the District of Colum- Fowle
bia. The original action was brought 'againstSTheV.
Cornthe defendants to recover damages asserted to men Council
have been sustained by the plaintiff, in conse- of Aexandria.
quence of the neglect of the defendants to take
due bonds and security from one Philip G. Marsteller, licensed by them as an auctioneer for the
years 1815, 1816,1817, and 1818, according to
the express provisions of the statute in this behalf enacted.
At the trial below, upon the general issue, one
of the principal points in controversy was, whether the said Marsteller was, in fact, licensed by
the defendants as an auctioneer during the years
above stated ;'and both parties introduced a good
deal of evidence, for the purpose of supporting
or repelling the presumption of the fact. The
defendants demurred to the evidence as insufficient to maintain the plaintiff's action, and the
record itself contains the whole evidence introduced at the trial, as well that arising from the
testimony of witnesses as that arising from written documents.
There is no joinder in demurrer on the record,
which is probably a mere defect in the transcript,
as the Court proceeded to give judgment upon
the demurrer in favour ofthe defendants. Without a joinder in demurrer, no such judgment
could be properly entered;.and such joinder
ought not to have been t-equired or permitted
while there was any matter of fact in controversy
between the parties.
VoI,, XI,

322

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

Indeed, the nature of the proceedings upon a
demurrer to evidence, seems to have been totally
Fowle
V. misunderstood in the present case. It is no
The Comnmon Council part of the object of such proceedings, to bring
of Alexan- before the Court an investigation of the facts in
da.
dispute, or to weigh the force of testimony or the
presumptions arising from the evidence. That
is the proper province of the jury. The true
and proper object of such a demurrer is to refer
to the Court the law arising from facts. It supposes, therefore, the facts to be already admitted
and ascertained, and that nothing remains but
for the Court to apply the law to those facts.
This doctrine is clearly established by the authorities, and is expounded in a very able manner
by Lord Chief Justice Eyre, in delivering the
opinion of all the Judges in the case of Gibson

v. Hunter, before the House of Lords. (2 H.
B1. Rep. 187.) It was there held, that no party
could insist upon the other party's joining in demurrer, without distinctly admitting, upon the
r'ecord, every fact, and every conclusion, which
the evidence given for his adversary conduced to
prove. if, therefore, there is paror evidence in
the case, which is loose and indeterminate, and
may be applied with more or less effect to the
jury, or evidence of circumstances, which is
meant to operate beyond the proof of the existence of those circumstances, and to conduce to
the proof of other facts, the party demurring
must admit the facts of which the evidence is so
loosei indeterminate, and circumstantial, before
the Court can compel the ,other side to join

OF THE UNITED STATES.

therein. And if there should be such a joinder 1826.
without such admission, leaving the facts unset- Fowle
v.
tied and indeterminate, it is a sufficient reason
The Cornfor refusing judgment .upon the demurrer; and non Council
the judgment, if any is rendered, is liable to of AIexandria.

be reversed for error. Indeed, the case made
for a demurrer to evidence, is, in many respects,
like a special verdict. It is to state facts, and
not merely testimony which may conduce to
prove them. It is to admit whatever the jury
may reasonably infer from the evidence, and not
merely the circumstances which form a ground
of presumption. The principal difference between them is, that, upon a demurrer to evidence, a Court may infer, in favour of the party
joining in demurrer, every fact of which the evidence might justify an inference ; whereas, upon
a special verdict, nothing is intended beyond the
facts found.
Upon examination of the case at bar, it will
be at once perceived, that the demurrer to evidence, tried by the principles already stated, is
fatally defective. The defendants have demurred, not to facts, but to evidence of facts ; not to
positive admissions, but to mere circumstances
of presumption introduced on tl. , other side.
The plaintiff endeavoured to prove, by circumstantial evidence, that the defendants granted a
license to Marsteller as an auctioneer. The defendants not only did not admit the existence of
such a license, but ihey ,introduced testimony tW
disprove the fact. Even if the demurrer could
be considered as being exclusively taken to the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR

T

plaintiff's evidence, it ought not to have been
allowed without a distinct admission of the facts
v.
which that evidence conduced to prove. But
The Common Council when the demurrer was so framed as to let in
of Alexan- the defendants' evidence, and thus to rebut what
dria.
the other side aimed to establish, and
to overthrow the presumptions arising therefrom, by
counter presumptions, it was the duty of the
Circuit Court to overrule the demurrer, as incorrect, and untenable in principle. The question
referred by it to the Court, was not a question
of law, but of fact.
This. being, then, the posture of the case, the
next consideration is, what is the proper duty of
this Court, sitting in error. It is; undoubtedly,
to reverse the judgment, and award a venirefacias de novo. We may say, as was said by the
Judges in Gibson v. Hunter, that this demurrer
has been so incautiously framed, that there is no
manner of certainty in the state of facts, upon
which any judgment can be founded. Under
such a predicament, the settled practice is, to
award a new trial, upon the ground that the issue
between the parties, in effect, has not been tried.
1826.

Judgment reversed, and a venire facias de
novo awarded.a
a Vride United States Bank v. Smith, ante, p. 171.

