OF THE UNITED STATES.

411

fectly stated to enable the Court to decide the 1826.
questions upon which the opinions of the Judges The
The-U.
U. S.
of the Circuit Court were opposed, and the
v.
cause was remanded to that Court, with direc- Kely.
tions to award a venirefaciasde nro.

[CoNSTRcCToN OF STATUTE.

The UNITED STATES V.KELLY and Others.
AlthoUgh the Crimes Act of 1790, c. 36. [ix.] s. 12. does not defint:

the offence of endeavouring to make a revolt, it is competent for
tie Court to give a judicial definition of it.
The offence consists in the endeavour of the crew of a vessel, or any
one or more of them, to overthrow the legitimate authority of the
commander, with intent to remove him from his command, or
against his viIl to take possession of the vessel by assuming the
government and navigation of her, or by transferring their obedience from the lawful commander to some other person.

THE defendants, Kelly and others, were indicted in the Circuit Court for the District of
Pennsylvania, for that the defendants, on the
24th of December, 1824, being seamen on board
a merchant vessel of the United States, called
the Lancaster, on the high seas, feloniously endeavoured to make a revolt in the said vessel,
contrary to the act of Congress of the 30th of
April, 1790, c. 36. [ix.] s. 12. The defendants
were found guilty, and moved the C6'rt in arrest
Vol. XT.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
e U. S.
The

of judgment, upon the ground, "that the act of
Congress does not define the offence of endea-

i.

vouring to make a revolt, and 'that it was not

Kelly.

competent to the Court to give a judicial defini-

tion of a crime heretofore unknown." The opinions of the Judges of the Court below being
divided upon this motion, the case was certified
to this Court for determination.
.M1arch 91h.

The cause was submitted without argument
by the Attorney General for the United States,
no counsel appearing for the prisoner-.

M1arcL ioth.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion
of the Court.
This case comes before the Court upon a certificate of a division of opinion of the Judges of the
Circuit Court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, upon the following point assigned by the defendants as a reason in arrest of judgment, viz.
"that the act of Congress does not define the offence of endeavouring to make a revolt, and it is
not competent to the Court to give a judicial definition of an offence heretofore unknown."
This Court is of opinion, that although the
.act of Congress does not define this offence, it
is, neyertheless, competent to the Court to give
a judicial definition of it. We think, that the
offence consists in the endeavour of the crew of
vessel, or any one or more of them, to overthrow the legitimate authority of her commander, with intent to remove him from his commiand, or against his will to take possession of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the vessel by assuming the government and navi- 1826.
gation of her, or by transferring
their obedience "-*The U. S.
from the lawful commander to some other perv.
Tappan.

son.

Certificate accordingly.

iCONSTRUCTION oF STATUTE.]

The

UNITED STATES

againstTAPPAN, and Others.

The words " true value," in the I1th section of the duty act of the
20th of April, 1818, c. 961. mean the actual cost of the goods to
the importer at the place from which they were imported, and not
the current 7r-ket value of the goods at such place.
If the Collector, in fact, suspects that the goods are invoiced belowr
the current market value thereof, at the place fron) which they
were imported, but does not suspect that they were invoiced below
the true and actual cost thereof to the importer, the Collector his
no right to direct an appraisement.
But, whenever, in the opinion of the Collector, there is just ground
to suspect that the invoice does not truly state the actual cost of the
goods, he may direct the appraisement, and is not bound to disclose the grounds upon which he forms that opinion, whether it is
formed from his knowledge or information of the current market
price of the goods, or other circumstances affording grounds to
suspect the invoice to be fraudulent.

THIS cause was argued by the Attorney Ge- Afare7th
wneral and Mr. Blake, for the plaintiffs, and by
Mr. Webster, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion
of the Court.

Marchli.St .

