OF THE UNITED STATES.

215

tended, showed a fraudulent intention in the 1826.
grantor, in conveying the lot in question to .his
Littlepage
son. And the evidence of the father's being
v..
indebted to the son, was to meet, and repel, the Fowler.
presumption of fraud which was attempted to
be raised against the deed by reason of such extrinsic circumstances. The evidence which has
been admitted to show the. fraud, and that which
was'offered to rebut it, related to collateral and
independent facts unconnected with the deed,
and could not, therefore, in any manner, vary
or alter its terms.
The third exception was, accordingly, well
taken. The judgment of the Court below must,
therefore, be reversed, and'the cause remanded,
with directions to issue a venire de novo.

[LoCAL LAW.J"

LITTLEPAGE

against FOWLER and Others.

The following entry is invalid, for want of that certainty and precision which the local laws and decisions require: "January 27
1783. J. C. L. enters 20,000 acres of landon twenty treasury war-,
rants, No. 8,859, &c. beginning at the mouth of a cre-ek falling
into the mainfork of Licking, on the north side, below some cedar
clIfls, and about 55 miles above the Upper Blue Licks, and running
from said beginning up the north side of Licking, and bc-anding
with the same as far as will amount to ten miles when reduced to a
straight line, thence extending from each end of said reduced line,
a noetherly coinrse at-ight angles to the same for quantity."

216

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'

Littlepage

V.

Fowler.
Feb. 14th.

Feb. Zud

Entry.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the
appellant,a and by Mr. Talbot, for the respondent.5
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This cause comes up by appeal from the Circuit Court of Kentucky, in which the appellant
filed his bill to compel the defendants to convey to him 20,000 acres of land in'right of a
prior entry. The defendants, having obtained
the prior patent, relied upon their prior legal
rights; and, on the hearing below, the bill was
dismissed. The entry on which the complainants relied was in these words:
" January 27, 1783. John Cart~r Littlepage
enters 20,000 acres of land on twenty treasury
warrants, No. 8,859, &c. beginning at the mouth
of a creek falling into the main fork of Licking,
on the north side below some cedar cliffs, and
a He cited Pannel v. Johnson, 2 Wheat. Rep 211. Hite v.
Graham, 2 Bibb. Rep. 143. White v. Wilson, 3 Bibb. Rep. 542.
Whitaker v. Hall, 1 Bibb. Rep. 79. Bodley v. Taylor, 5 Cranci's
Rep. 224. M'Gee v. Thompson, 1 Bibb. Rep. 132. Marshall
v. Currie, 4 Cranch's Rep. 176, 177. Bush v. Todd, 1 Bibb.
Rep.64. Whitaker v. Hale, Id 73. Roberts v. Huff, Hardin's
Rep. 382. Taylor v. Kincaid, Id. 82. Bowman v. Alellin,
3 Bibb. Rep, 153.
b He cited Hite v. Graham, 2 Bibb, Rep. 144. M'Kee v. Bodley, 2 Bibb. Rep. 482. Whitaker v. Hale, 1 Bibb. Rep 79.
Craig v. Hawkins, 1 Bibb. Rep. 53.. Smith v. Walton, 3 Bibb.
Rep. 153. Carland v." Rowland, Id. 127. Webb v. Bedford,
2 Bibb. Rep. 259. Greenup v. Lyne, Id. 37. Mercer v. Irvins,
Id. 471. Landrum v. Hite, 1 Marsh. Kentuck. Rep. 419. BartaF
CA houn. 9 Mar.sh. Kentuck. Rep. 16n.

9 17

OF THE UNITED STATES.

about thirty-five miles above the Upper Blue Lick, 1826.
and running from said beginning up the north

'"

'

Littlepage

side of Licking, and bending with the same, as
v.
far as will amount to ten miles when reduced to Powler.
a straight line, thence extending from each end
of said reduced line in. a northwardly course at
right angles to the same for quantity."

quertio, on
The only question in the cause is, whether this tihe
validity of

entry contains that legal precision which the this entry.
land laws of Kentucky require to make an en-.
try a valid appropriation of the land. For the
defendants, it is contended, that it is vague, and
calculated either to mislead a subsequent locater, or impose upon him an unreasonable labour
in the effort to identify it.
On this subject, the rule of the law of that a,General
rle
to th, vlil-

State, and the rule of reason, is, that the objects dity of entries
called for to designate the land appropriated,
should be specific; and, if not notorious in themselves, that they should be so indicated with referenc3 to those which are notorious, as to enable a subsequent locater to discover and identify
them by using ordinary diligence.
The locative calls in this cause are, a creek
emptying into the main fork of Licking on the
north side, below---some cedar cliffs. It is not
pretended, that these objects have the attribute
of notoriety, and, in order to lead to their discovery, the subsequent locater is referred to the
main branch- of Licking river, and the Upper
Blue Lick, which are notorious, and t6 the position and distance of the beginning point of the
entry, with reference to the lick and the river.

218

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Lttlepage

A subsequent locater, then, having this entry
his hand, and proposing to appropriate the adJacent residuum, proceeds to the lick as his start-

Sin

F.
Fowler.
ing point; when there, he knows that the land

lies above him with reference to the river, upon
the river bank, and, in the language of the entry,
"about thirty-five miles above the.Upper Blue
Lick."
On what
ciple
is theprindi-. The first question which then occurs to him,
tance
for
to be called
coin.-js that which has constituted the principal subputd:?
Ject of argument in this cause. Upon what principle is the distance here called for to be computed ? For the appellant, it is contended, that
he should pursue the meanders of the river, or
1the most practicable route by land; for the app'ellee, that he must apply the mathematical principle to the entry, and take the shortest line that
can be drawn between the tw9 points; and both
contend, that they are sustained by adjudicated
cases.
E.arn:natio,.
of the cases on

this subject.

We have examined those cases, and are satisfled, that neither party is supported in his doc-

trine as a universal principle; but that the
Courts of Kentucky, with that good sense which
uniformly distinguishes their efforts to extricate
themselves from that chaos of rights in which
political relations, and inveterate practice, had
involved them, have left each case to be governed
by its own merits, wherever distance has been
resorted to as the means of identifying a locative call. And certainly the sense in which the
enterer uses the reference to distance, is the
only general rule that can govern a Court in con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

struing'an entry. That. sense may be gathered 1826.
from his language, or inferred from the habits of Littlepage
'
men, and the state of the country; but, as lie is . v.
responsible for the sufficiency of his entry, it Fowler.
would be unfair to impose an arbitrary and unusual meaning upon the language of unlettered
men, exploring a country covered with thickets.
and replete with dangers.
For these reasons, the straight line, as the.
ineans of ascertaining a locative call, has certainly been rejected as a general rule. Such
was the case in Hite v. Graham et al. (2 Bibb.
Rep. 144, 145.) M7'Kfee v. Bodley, (2 Bibb. Rep.
482.)
Whitaker v. h1'ale et al. (1 Bibb. Rtep.
79.)

As the .nethod of surveying an entry,

however, the meanders of a river are always reduced to a straight line, and to this class of cases
are all those quoted for the appellee to be refered. (Craig v. Hawkins' Heirs, 1 Bibb. Rep).
53. and many others.) Yet, in the case of 1'ICee
v. Bodley, before cited, both the direction and
admeasurement of a straight line are resorted to
for the purpose of verifying a call lying on the
side of a road. And the reason is obvious ; in
that case, the shortness of the line, as well as
the phraseology of the entry, rendered it admissible that the enterer referred to distance as ascertained by direct measurement.
One general rule is never departed from, to Distance
•ctd
byindi-a
wit, that when distance is indicated by a road, it roZ" .
shall be held to mean, by the meanders of a road.
(Whitaker v. Hale, snpra, and passim.) So,
also, where there is no road or trace, the most

20

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Littlepage

V.

Fowler.

usual route, if there be proved such a route to exist,
seems to be the rule. So it is laid down in Hite
v. Graham et al. in which, also, the general rule
as to the sense in which the language of entries
is to be received, is explicitly declared to.be "according to the popular acceptation at the time
when the entry was made." And, although, in
the case of White v. Wilson, (3 Bibb. Rep. 542.)
a learned Judge is reported to have said, " that
there seenis to be a diversity of opinion as to the
most natural construction of a locative call in an
entry where a given distance, up or down a water-

Distances
specifit-d
on wa-

course, is specified," we cannot but think, that

,el
oUIECS.

the same rules which govern the cases on the
subject of distances by land, have been distinctly
and rationally applied to distances called for with
reference to water courses.
Distances on the Ohio are invariably measured
according to its meanders. (Hite v. Graham,
2 Bibb. Rep. 143. Johnson v. Pannel's Heirs,
2 Wheat. Rep. 207.) Nor is there any thing arbitrary in the rule, nor leading to a result so indefinite as the supposed distinction between
great and small water courses. Their navigable character furnishes the rule by identifying
them.with highways, and thus the popular acceptation of terms still furnishes the distinction.
This is very obvious from the case of Hite v.
Graham,in which the Coart say, "As the Ohio
is the usual way of passing from one point on it to
another, and was, at an early day, the great highway of coming to that part of this country," &c.
And, in the same case, speaking of the Little

S)k
THE UNITED STATE*,2

221

Sandy,,the Court observes, "This call, like that 1826.
for distance on the Ohio, is not explicit as to "
Litflepage
computing it. But this stream, though like the
V.
Ohio navigable, is not like it impassable, except Fowler.
occasionally; and a person, in passing from one
point of it to another, is not necessarily confined
to the winding of the stream. A direct line,
however, would be impracticable to travel and
use, put it out of the question as being a way in
which a call -of this kind would ever be understood by any one-" And thus, in the case of
Bowman,v. Melton, (2 Bibb. Rep. 153.) where
the call was for thirteen or fourteen miles up a
small stream, the Court observed, " It, indeed,
is not probable, that the distance along the meanders of the water course was intended, because,
it is believed, that it never was usual to travel
with the meanders of a small stream to ascertain
the distance of one object from another; nor
is it probable that the distance by a direct line
was intended, because it would extend beyond
the head of the water course. But, it is rather
to be presumed, that reputed distance was
1neant."
Since, then, all the testimony goes to estaHil3ih,

that Licking, above the Upper Blue Lick,

is not a navigable stream, at least not so as to
be resorted to as a highway, especially for ascending navigation, it follows, that the inquiries
of a subsequent locater, who wished to appropriate the residuum adjacent to this entry, or of
the surveyor who had a warrant to survey it,
would be for a creek entering into Licking on the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

north side, at a distance from the lick of about.
, thirty-five miles, by some practicable route. The
Littlepage
v.
answer to this inquiry, as appears from the eviFowler.

dence, would direct him immediate to the fork

of Licking. For Morrow, one of the witnesses,
swears, that he could reach that point by travelling in a practicable route about thirty-five or forty
miles, (p. 486. of the record) and in a direct
line it is ascertained to be about thirty miles.
Nor would the call for the cedar cliffs be wanting
here, for, it is worthy of remark, that the call is
not for a cliff adjodining, or near~to, or in sight of,
the mouth of the c reek, but merely. for a cliff at
an indefinite distance above the mouth )f the
creek. Whereas all the witnesses who are examined to identify the mouth of Foxe's creek,
where this entry is claimed to lie, answer under
the impression, that the clff is to be immediately
above or adjoining th" mouth of the creek.
1xi this particular, there is much reason to believe, that Foxe's creek stands alone on the north
side of Licking; but the call is vague and indefinite on this point, since it is answered, -if the
creek is below the cliffs at any reasonable distance.
We will now- suppose the locater dissatisfied,
or in doubt, with regard to the object thus found,
and, returning to the lick, resolved to renew his
researches. The idea of fifiding the mouth of
Foxe's creek, by following a direct line, is out of
the case, since no course is furnished him by
the entry, on which to pursue his researches for
this object. He must, then, either renew his in-

uF THE UNITED STATES.

!12 3

quiries for some other creek of the description 1826.
called for; or, adopting the meanders of the Littlepage
V.
pursue his way up its mar- Fowler.
river as his guide,
•
gin.

In answer to his inquiries, it -is
obvious, that
any creek lying between the north fork of Licking and Foxe's creek, would be recommended to
his examination in preference to Foxe's; because
the latter must be farther removed from the distance *of thirty-five miles than any one lying
above it. If, then, the enterer intended to appropriate his land at the mouth of Foxe's creek, it is
obvious, that his call for distance is calculated to
mislead, not to direct, a subsequent locater.
But, as there is no evidence in the cause, of
any road, trace, or explored route, leading from
the lick to the mouth-of any of these creeks, let
us suppose the explorer at liberty to take the'
course contended for in behalf of the appellant,
and to thread his way up the meanders of the river.
When he reaches the mouth of Foxe's creek, he
finds himself short of-the distance called for by
more than one third of the whole, that is to say,
by eleven miles. Does the cause afford any
ground, or the cases any principle, which will
authorize his stopping there ?
The call is for a creek " about thirty-five
miles" above the lick. We are not disposed to
restrict the appellant to the rigid rule formerly
laid down by the Courts, by which the word
" about" was rejected, and the entry limited to
the number called for. In surveying entries,
Ihere is little doubt that this is the rule ; but, in

CASES IN 'IIIE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Littlepage

v.

iowler.

measuring distance , a more liberal rule is laid
in the more modern case of Jones v. Plummer, of which we are disposed to allow the party
the full benefit. (2 Littel. 162.) It is in these

Sdown

words, " According to repeated decisions of this
Court under the word ' about,' the subsequent
adventurer might be required to stop a little short
of, or extend the search a little beyond the distance called for."
But, according to the principle of this rule, if
he might stop eleven miles short, he may advance
eleven miles beyond the distance called for; and
two and twenty miles search, or even the half of
it, on the margin of such a stream, or any stream,
would be too much to require of a subsequent
locater.
Had the object called for had any claim to the
attribute of notoriety, it might have had some
greater claim to indulgence, on the principle of'
Taylor v. Kincaid, (Hardin. Rep. 82.) or, had
there been proved a known and received computation o'f distance attributed to the object, it
might have been considered with reference to the
principle in Bowman v. Mellin, (3 Bibb. Rep.
153.)
But there is no evidence of any received estimation of distance from the lick to the mouth of
this creek; nor is there the least evidence that it
took the naine of Foxe's prior to the entry. On
the contrary, and this furnishes another legal
objection to this entry, there is evidence, that
at that time, and a year before," it bore the name
a John M'Intire's deposition.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

225

of Indian creek, and there is on the record a 1826.
copy of an entrya made upon it by that name,

Littlepage

in the same year, and only seven months junior
v.
to the entry of the appellants. Indeed, the time Fowler.
and incident that gave it the name it now bears,
are positively proven to be cotemporaneous with
the survey.
And, finally, if resort be had to the means of
testing the identity of the call admitted in M'Kee
v. Bodley, to wit, course and distance in a right
line, we find the test entirely fatal to the call in
this instance. The course is not given, and the
distance is not one third of that called for. And
we farther find, that there are at least two streams
on the same river which answer the call, when
subjected to this test, infinitely better; to wit,
that now called the north fork, but which was
formerly known as an undistinguished creek, and
Warwick's creek or run, the former near thirtyfive miles, and the latter twenty-seven and a half
on a direct line from the lick.
On no prihciple, therefore, can this entry be
supported, and the decree below must be affirmed, with costs.
Decree accordingly.
a Shephard's entry.

VOL. XL

