184

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
The U. S.
V.

Vanzandt.

[SURETY.

The

CONSTRUCTION OF STATUTZ.]

UNITED STATES

against VANZANDT.

The case of thp United States v. Kirkpatrick, (9 Wheat. Rep. 720.)
revised, its authority confirmed, and applied to the present case.
An omission of the proper officer to recall a delinquent paymaster
under the injunctions of the 4th section of the act of the 24th of
April, 1816,c 69. does not discharge his surety.
The provisions requiring thedelinquent paymaster to be recalled, and
a new appointment to be made in his place, are merely directory,
and intended for the security of the government; but form no
part of the contract with the surety.
The statute not removing from office the delinquent paymaster, ipso
facto, but only making it the duty of the proper officer to remove
him, the 6ircumstance of new funds being placed in his hands
after his delinquency, does not discharge the surety.

sth.

THIS cause was argued by the Attorney General and Mr. Swann, for the plaintiffsa and by
Mr. Jones and Mr. Key, for the defendant.

Feb. 16th.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion
of the Court.
This was -An action of debt brought in the
Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, upon
a paymaster's official bond, against the defendant in error, one of the sureties in that bond.
The condition of the bond, as set out upon oyer,
is in the following words, viz. "That whereas
the above bounden John Hall is appointed pay-

.Feb.

a They cited the United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. Rep.
720.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

master of the rifle regiment in the army of the 1826.
United States; now, if the said J. H. shall well •The U. S.
and truly execute, and faithfully discharge, acV.
cording to law, and to instructions received by Vanzandt.
him from proper authority, his duties as paymaster aforesaid, and he, his heirs, &c. shall regularly account when thereunto required, for all
moneys received by him from time to time,, as
paymaster aforesaid, with such person or persons'
as shall be duly authorized and qualified on the
part of the United States for that purpose, and,
moreover, pay into their treasury such balance as,
on final settlement of the said J. Hall's accounts,
shall be found justly due from him to the United
States, then," &c.
To the declaration filed in this action, the defendant plead, that the said John Hall did well,
and truly observe and discharge, according to
law, and to instructions': received by him from
proper authority, his duties .as paymaster in the
rifle regiment of the army of the United States,
and did pay into the treasury such balance as, on
settlement, was found due, and bath observed,
kept, and fulfilled, every matter and thing in the
condition of the said bond, which, according to
the said condition, ought to have been observed
and kept.
The breach set out in the replication is, that
the said J. H. did not pay to the United States
the sum of
which was due, and
in arrear, on a certain day, and which he ought
then to have paid according to the condition of
his bond.
. VOL. XL

24

186

CASES iN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
The U. S.

V.

Vanzandt.

Upon the trial of the issue formed on the matter stated in the replication, a bill of exceptions
was taken to the opinion of the Court, by the
United States, which states, that to support the
issue on the part of the United States, they gave
in evidence a certified copy of the bond aforesaid, together with the account of the United
States against the said J. H. settled at the treasury department, and duly certified according to
law-, whereby it appeared, that a balance of
29,266 dollars 6 cents was due to the United
States by the said J. H., as paymaster of the rifle
regiment of the army of the United States.
Whereupon the defendant prayed the Court to
instruct the jury, that if, from the evidence aforesaid, they should believe, that John Hall, named
in the condition of the bond, had neglected and
fai.ed to inake any report to the paymaster general once in two months, showing the disposition of the funds previously transmitted, with estimates for the next payment of the said regiment, and had also neglected and failed, either
to transmit such estimates, or to render his
vouchers to the paymaster general for settlement
of his accounts, more than six months after receiving funds, and was not recalled for such default and neglect, but additional funds were
placed in his hands, notwithstanding his known
defaults and neglects in the instances aforesaid,
then the defendant is not chargeable for any
failure of the said J. H. to account for such additional 7funds so placed in his hands after his said
defaults and neglects, in respect of the funds

OF THE UNITED STATES.

187

previously received, were known as aforesaid. 1826.
The Court gave the instruction as'prayed ; and, a The U. S.
verdict being found for the defendant, a writ of -v.
error%was sued out to the judgment rendered Vanzandt.
thereon.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error have P,,,disn
from
,-,fshble
rested their cause entirely upon the decision 0 "tile
United
this Court in the case of the Umited
States
V.
Slateiv.
Kirk.....
]Palc/
(9
Kirkpatrick,(9 Wheat. Rep 720.) and as we do tvaheat.
Rep.
72 )
not feel disposed to dissent from the opinion 0.
given in that case, it becomes material, in the
first place, to inquire, whether the two cases are
the same in principle or not. If they aie, it will
avoid the necessity of any general reasoning
upon the point decided in this cause by the Court
below,
The case referred to, arose upon the act of
Congress for the collection of the direct taxes,
and internal duties. The action was founded
upon the collector's bond against the sureties ;
and one of the questions which came up for decision was, whether the failure of the comptroller to call the collector to account at the periods
prescribed by law, -and the consequent injury to
the sureties, did not discharge them from their
responsibility upon the ground of laches? By
the 28th section of the above act, the comptroller of the treasury is required, in case any collector should fail to collect, or to render his account, or to pay over quarterly, or sooner if required, the moneys by him collected, immediately after such delinquency, to issue a warrant of
distress against the delinquent collector, to be

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
The U. S.
T.

Vanzandt.

levied on his personal estate, and, in case that
should prove insufficient to satisfy the warrant,
then upon his real estate. The decision of this
Cdurt was, 1. That laches is not imputable to
the government; and, 2. That the provisions af
the law requiring settlements by its officers to be
.made at short periods, are designed for the security and protection of the government, and to
regulate the conduct of those officers ; that they
are merely directory to the officers, and form no
part of the contract with the surety.
The correctness of these principles is admitted by the counsel for the defendant; but they
insist that they are inapplicable to the case of a
surety in a paymaster's bond, because, by the
4th section of the act " for organizing the general staff, and making further provision for the

'army of the United States," if the paymaster fail to render his vouchers to the paymaster
general for settlement of his accounts, for more
than six months after his having received funds,
the injunction of the act is imperative, "that he
shall be recalled, and another appointed in his
place."
It is contended by the defendant's counsel,
Construction
of the 4th sectionof the act that this section leaves no discretion in the proof the 24th of
c.per officer of the government to 'continue the
April,
as 1816,
-to the
69.
paymaster in office after his delinquency, but that
likbuty
of a.
patymaster's
he ceases thereafter to be paymaster, and the
sur ety.

responsibility of his sureties is terminated.
It must be conceded, that the injunction on the
proper officer .of the government to recall the
delinquent paymaster, is expressed in very strong

OF THE UNITED STATES.

189

language. But, whether the omission to per- 1826.
form the act, amounts, under every possible cir- 'N"€'*&
The U.S.
cumstance, to a breach of offimlal duty, may ad-

V.

mit of some doubt. May it not be excused in a Vanzandt.
case where the paymaster has been prevented
from rendering hi- vouchers at the periods mentioned in the act, by causes acknowledged by the
gov ernment to have'been beyond his control?
And, if it may, it would seem, that the ground of
excuse could not properly be made a subject of
judicial inquiry in an action against the surety.
It may further be remarked, that if it had been
the policy and -intention of' the legislature,that
the act of delinquency should be inexorably fol-.
lowed by a removal From office, it might not be
unreasonable to 'resume, that such a consequence would have been distinctly announced.
It is not, however, the intention of the Court, to
express any opinion updn this point, b&ause,
whatever may be the duty of the proper officer
of the government in' this respect, it must, we
think, be admitted, that untii the paymaster is
recalled, he continues in office. The act authorizes, perhaps requires, his recall, but it does
not displace him. The -officer whose duty it
may be to recall him acts upon his own responsibility to the government by declining to do so
but, until he acts otherwise, the paymaster is authorized, notwithstanding his delinquency, to receive, and to disburse the funds which may-be
placed in his hands.
The attempt to distinguish this from Kirkpatrick's case, is made upon the ground3 that that

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

was purely a case of laches, whereas, in this, an
unauthorized act was done by the government
V~he-U.
Y. S.. in confiding funds to the disposal of a public deVanzandt. faulter, whom the. governnent was bound by law
1826.

T

to have dismissed from office. But, will it be
contended, that the obligation to dismiss this officer was more imperative than that imposed
upon the comptroller to call the collector of direct taxes to account at the periods prescribed
by law, and in cases of delinquency, to pursue
the summary remedy which the same law provided for the safety of the public, and, consequentially, for that of the surety? Tht neglect
in the one case, and in the other, imputes laches
to the officer whose duty it was to perform the
acts which the law required ; but, in a legal point
of view, the rights of the government cannot be
affected by these laches. The provisions in both
laws are merely directory to the officers, and intended for the security and protection of government, by insuring punctuality and responsibility;
but they form no part of the contract with the
surety. If, then, the paymaster continues in office, notwithstanding the omission of the proper
officer to recall him on the ground of his defaults, the act of placing funds in his hands to be
disbursed according to law, is not one ofwhich
the surety can complain, since the public interest requires that the troops should be paid,
which can be done only by the officer appointed
for that purpose. If the neglect of the officers
of government, from which the surety suffers,
des not discharge him from his responsibility

OF THE UNITED STATES.

iii either case, it is not perceived how' the

1826.

placing funds in the hands of the paymaster,

The U. S.

who continues in office, can have that effect, seeing that the latter circumstance is the necessary
consequence of the former. If the law displaced
the officer upon the ground of delinquency, the
placing funds in his hands, after his removal from
office, could not possibly be upon the responsibility of the surety, inasmuch as his undertaking
was for the faithful discharge of the duties of
his principal as paymaster, and, consequently,
he is not bound for his acts after he has ceased
to hold that office. The whole argument of the
counsel for the defendant proceeded upon the
assumption, that the office terminated, ipsofacto,
as soon as the delinquency occurred, which, we
have endeavoured to show, presents an incorrect
view of the subject.
Whether, admitting that the surety could claim
to be discharged from his responsibility, upon
the ground assumed by his counsel, such a defence could be set up on the proceedings in this
cause, is a question upon which the Court avoids
expressing an opinion, because it is rendered unnecessary by that which has been pronounced,
and because it was not argued at the bar.
The opinion of the Court is, that there is error
in the judgment of the Court below, and that the
same ought to be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

Vanzandt.

