OF THE UNITED STATES.

self of the deeds he has received, or file a cross
bill praying the aid of the Court.

467

1826.
U. States
V.

DECREE. This cause came on, &c.
On n
sideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that
there is error in the decree of the Circuit Court
in affirming the award made by the arbitrators in
this cause, which said award byght to have been
set aside, because the same is not certain and
final. It is, therefore, DECREED aud ORDERED,
that the said decree be reversed and annulled,
and that the cause be remanded to the Circuit
Court, with directions to set aside the said award,
and to take such further proceedings in the
said cause as may be equitable and just.

.CoNsTITUTxoiNAL LAw.]

The

UNITED STATES V. ORTEGA.

An indictment under the Crimes Act of 1790, c. 96. [IX.] s. 87. for
infracting the law of nations by offering violence to the person of
a foreign minister, is not a case "affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls," within the 2d section of the 3d article of
the constitution of the United States.
The Circuit Courts have jurisdiction of such an offence under tihe
l1th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
Quire. Whether the jurisdiction, of the Supreme Court is not only
original, but; exclusive of the Circuit Court, in "tasas affecting ambassadors, other public ministers add consuls," within the trju&
construction ofrthe 2d section of the 3d article of the constitution?"

Ortega.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

468

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opienion
of the Court.
V. S
The defendant, Juan Gualberto de Ortega,

1826.

Was indicted in the Circuit Court of the United
"'Ortega.
Marckl6tk.

States for, the eastern DistrJict of Pennsylvania,
for infracting the law of nations, by offering violence to the person of Hilario de Rivas y Salmon,
the charge d'affaires of his Catholic Majesty the
King of Spain in the United States, contrary to
the law of nations, and to the act of the Congress of the United States in such case provided.
The jury having -found a verdict of guilty, the
defendant moved in arrest'of judgment, and assigned for cause, "that the Circuit Court has not
jurisdiction of the matter charged in the indictment, inasmuch as it is a case affecting an ambassador or other public minister,." The opinions
of the Judges of that Court upon this point being
opposed, the cause comes before this Court upon
a certificate of such disagreement.
The questions to which the point certfied by
the Court below gives rise, are, first, whether
this is a case affecting an ambassador or other
public minister, within the meaning of the second
section of the third article of the constitution of
the United States. If it be, then the next question would .be, whether the jurisdiction 'of the
Supreme Court in such cases, is not only original,
but exclusive of the Circuit Courts, under the
true construction of the above section and ar"ticle.
The last question need not be decided in the
present case, because the Court 'is clearly of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

opinion,'that this is not a case affecting a public 1826..
minister, within the plain meaning of 'the constitution. It is that of a public prosecution, instiv.
Ortega.
the
of
name
the
in
and
by
conducted
and
tuted
United States, for the purpose of vindicating the
law of nations, and that of the United State's,
offended, as the indictment charges, in the person of a public minister, by an assault committed
on him by a private individual. It is a case, then,
which affects the United States, and. the individual whom" they seek to punish;.but one in
which the minister himself, although he was the
person injured by the assault, has no concern,
either in the event of the prosecution, or- in the
costs attending it.
It is ordered to be certified to the Circuit Court
for th eastern District of Pennsylvania, that
that Court has jurisdiction of the matter charged in the indictment, the case not being one
which affects an ambassador or 'other public
minister.
Certificate accordingly.-z
a The constitution of the United States provides, (art. 3.sec;
2.) that "the judicial power shall extend to a 'ases in law and
equity, arising under this constitution, the laws of the United
States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, undek their anthorit3; to all casesaffecting ambassadors,other public ministers,
andconsuls; to all cases ofadmiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; to
controversies to which the United States shall be a party ; to con-.
troversies betweem two or more States, between a State and citizens
of affother State,'betweeri citizens of different States, between.citizem of the same State claiming lands under grants o'f
different

470

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. States, and between a State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign
states, citizens, or subjects." And that, "in all cases afecting
,
.
U. States ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls, and those in
V.
which a State shall be party, the Supreme Court shall have origi.
Ortega.
naljurisdiction. In all the-other cases before mentioned, the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as td lawand
fact, with such exceptions, and under such regulations, as the Coqgress shall make."
. The Crimes Act, of 1790, c. 36. [ix.] s. 25. enacts, "That if
any writ or process shall at any time be sued forth or piosecuted
by any person or persons in any of the Courts 6f the United
States, or in any of the Courts of a particular State, or by any
Judge or Justice therein respectively, whereby the person of any
ambassador; or other public minister, of any foreign prince or state,
authorized and received as such by the President of the United
States, or any domestic or domestic servant of any such ambassador or other public minister, may be arrested or imprisoned, or
his or their goods or chattels be distrained, seized, or attached,
such writ or process shall be deemed and adjudged to be utterly
null and void, to all intents and purposes whatsoever. (s. 26.)
That in case any person or persons shall sue forth or prosecute any
such writ or process, such person or persons, and all attorneys or solicitors, prosecuting or soliciting in such case, and all officers executing any -such writ or process, being thereof convicted, shall be
deemed violators of the law of nations, and disturbers of the public
repose, and imprisoned not exceeding three years, and fined at the
discretion of the Court." The samesection also contains a proviso, excepting from the operation of the preceding sections, any
citizen or inhabitant of the United Statds, who shall have contracted debts .before' entering into the service of such minister, and requiring the name of such servant to. be previously registered. in
the office of the Secretary of State, &c. The 27th section provides, " That if any person shall violate any safe conduct or
passport duly obtained, and issued under the authority of the United States, or shall, assault, strike, wound, imprison, or in 'any
manner infract the law of nations, by oyerzng violence to the
person of an ambassador,or other public mnunster, such person
so offending, on conviction, shall be imprisoned not exceeding
three years, and fined at the discretion of the Court."
The Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20. s. 9. provides, " That the

OF THE9 UNITED STATES.
District Vourts shall-have, exclusively of the Courts of th6 seve.
ral. States, cognizance of all crimes and offences that shall be cog.
rtizable tinder'the'ahthdrity of thie United States, committed with- U. States
'V.
in their respective districts, or upon the high seas, where no other Ortega..
punishment than whipping not exceeding thirty stripes, a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars, or a termof imprisonnent not exceeding -six months, is to be inflited?' "'* And 'shall also have
jurisdiction, exclusively of the Courts of the several StAtes, of all
suits againstconsuls or vice-consulsk, except for offences above the
description aforesaid."
The sameact (s. 11.) provides, tfat the Circuit Courts "shall
have exclusive cognizance of all crimes and ofences cognizable
under the authority of the United States, except where this act
otherwise provides, or the laws of the United States shall otherwise direct, and concurrent jurisdiction with the District Courts,
of the crimes and offences cognizable therein." It also provides
(s.' 13.) that the Supreme Court "shall have, exclusively, all such
jurisdiction of suits 6r proceedings againstambassadors, or other
public ministers, or their domestics, or domestic servants as a
Court of law can have or exercise consistently with the law of
nations; and original, but not exclusive jurisdiction, of all suits
brought by ambassadors or other public ministers, or in which a
corsu; orvice-consul, shall be a party."
,The: question v'hether the jurisdiction of tho Supreme Courtin
19all cases affecting ambassadors, other public 'ministers andtonsuls,"is exclusive as well as original,under thecorrstitui1on4 s as
to preclude Congress frohi vesting in any other' tribunal juiisdiction over such caseAias never been decided -in terms by this
Court. ' But, it was held, as early as the year 1793, inthe Circuit
Court for the District of Pennsylvania, by WILsoN and PETE.PS,
J. J. (IREDELL-J. dis'senting,) that the jurisdiction in a criminal
prosecution against a foreign consul, who 'as indicted for a misdemeanor at common law, was constitutionally vested in that Court,.
under the I th-section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,c. 20. (The
United States v. Ravara, 2 Dall. Rtp. 297.) 1i has, however,.
been expressly determiued by this Court, that the clause of the
constitution giviag the Supreme Court appellatejurisdiction in all
other'cases than those in which original jurisdiction is granted,
does not exclude the Court from exercising ippellate jurisdiction
in cases "arising under thle constitution, laws,_and treaties of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

472
1826.

Unlon," and in "cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction)"
an ambassador, other public minister, or consul, may be
U. States a paity. If, for example, a foreign minister is sued in a State
CV.o
Ortega. Court by an individual, and that Court should take jurisdiction,
and give judgment against the minister, the Supreme Court of the
United States may revise the judgment under the appellate powers
given to it by the 25(h section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c.
20. So, where the inferior Courts of the Union take cognizance,
as Courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, of suits brought
by foreign consuls in maritime causes in -iich their fellow citizens are interested, the appellate power of 'this Court has been
constantly exercised. [See, the judgment of this Court in the case
of Cohens v. Virginia, ante, vol. VI. pp. 396-401. in which the
previous case of Marbury v. Madison, (1 Cranch's Rep. 174 ) is
revised and explained.] But where the jurisdiction depends merely
upon the character of the consul, and not upon the nature of the
case, the question has never been determined by this Court, whether Congress could invest any other tribunal than the Supreme
Court, with original jurisdiction.
It has been decided by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
that the State Courts have no jurisdiction of any suit brought
Mannhai, Itv. Sodersagainst a foreign consul or vice-consul.
trom, 1 Bnn.. Rep. 138.) There seems to be no reason to doubt
the corroetiss of this adji-dication, the constitution giving to the
national judiciary cognizance of ' all casps affecting consuls," and
Congress having, by the 9th section of thw Judiciary Act of 1789,
c. 20., vested the District Courts of the Union with jurisdiction of
various matters both of a criminal and civil nature, in some of
which their jurisdiction is exclusive of te State 'Courts, and, in
others, concurrent with them; and towards the latter part of the
section,-the District Courts being vested with jurisdiction "ezeluSalthough

sii'eiy of the Courts ff the several States, of all suits against

-

consuls or vice-consuls, except for offences above the description
aforesaid." The word suits includes those both of a civil and
criminal nature ;,and the exception of "offences above the description aforesaid," refers to a description in the first part of the
section, viz. offences where no other punishment than whipping
not exceeding thirty stripes, a fine not exceeding one hund.,ed dollars, or a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, is to be
"nflicted.

OF THE UNITED. STATES.

473

The Circuit'Courts of the Union have jurisdiction concurrently 1826.
-/
with the District Courts, of offences within that description, in %,
cases affecting consuls; and the Circuit Courts have exclusive ju- U. States
V.
risdiction of offences above that description, in cases affecting con- Ortega.
suls. It has also been detertnined by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, that this last jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts is not only
exclusive of the District Courts, but of' the State Courts. Upon
this ground, an indictment for a criminal offence under the laws of
Pennsylvania, against the Russian Consul General, was quashed
for want ofjurisdiction by that Court, in 1816. (Commonwealth
v. Kosloff, 5 erg. 4 Rawle, 545.) In delivering the judgment of
the Court in that case, Mr. Chief Justice TILrGHmAN also examined
the question, as to the nature and extent ofr the privileges 6f consuls under the law of nations, and decided that the privilege of
immunity from criminal prosecutions was not conferred -on them
by that law. It had been previously determined by the English
Court of K. B., in 1814, that they were not privileged as public
ministers from arrest in civil cases. (Vivian v. Beeker,.3 Maul.
4. Seiw. 284.) And the authorities, cited from the text writers on
the law of nations, in these two cases, show that consuls are in no
respect privileged as public ministers.
.It results front the above provisions of the cbnstitution, the acts
of Congress, and the judicial expositions which have been given
to them,
i. That no civil suit or criminal prosecution can be commenced
againsta foreign ambassador, other 'public minister, or consul, in
any State Court.
2. That such ambassador, public minister, or consul, mayj at
his election, commence a suit in a State Court, (in other respects
of competentjurisdiction;) against an individual.
S. That an ambassador, or other public minister, cannot be
proceeded against in any civil case, by compulsory process, in any
Court whatever..
4. That a consul may be sued, or proceeded against, civilly or
criminally, in the Courts of the Union, in the same manner as a
private individual.
5. That in civil suits against -aconsul, and in criminal prosecutions against him, withii the limits of the criminal jurisdiction of
the District Courts, the District Courts- have jurisdiction of such
suits or prosecutions.

474
.

1g26.
,
U_States
Ortega.

CASES IN THE 'SUPREME COURT
:6. ihat inzriminal ptosectuious against consuls, for offence.
above the description of those .cognizable in the District Courts,
theCircuit 'Cokuts have exclusive .jurisdiction, and concurrent ju.
risdiotion with the District Courts ia the other cases cognizable
therein.

.7. That the Supreme Court has original and exclusive jurisdiction of such suits or .prosecutions apainst ambassadors, and other
public ministers, as any Court of justice can exercise consistently
with the law of natiorw
8. Thattthe Supreme Court has original, but not exclusive, jurisdiction of suits brought by ambassadors, or other public ministers, or in which a consul is a party.
9. That the Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction of all
cases, in which a minister or consul is a party, arising in the State
Courts, and involving the construction of the national constitution,
or the validity and construction of the laws and treaties of the
U.nion, under the restrictions mentioned in the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
10. That the Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction of all
civil suits brought in the Courts of the Union, having original jurisdiction of the suit, where a minister or consul is a party, and
:he matter in dispute exceeds the sum of two thousand dollars.
In criminal cases arising in the Courts of the Union, no writ of
error, or other appellate process, to remove the cause to the Supreme Court, has been provided by Congress ; and the' only mode
an which such cases can be revised in this Court, is upon a certificate where the opinions of the Judges of the Circuit Court are opposed. (United States v. La Vengeance, 3 Dall. Rep. 297.
United States v. More, 3 Crancets Rep. 159. Exparte Kearny,
ante, Vol. VII. p. 42.) Consequently, a criminal case affecting a
consul, can only be revised in this Court upon a division of opi-nions of the Judges of the Court below, certified under the 6th
section of tho Judiciary Act of the 29th of April, 1802, c. 291.
[-Xxxi.]
The question as to what is the law by which cases affecting amba ssadors, other public ministers, and consuls, are to be determined in the Courts of the Union, in the absence of any legislative provisions by Congress applicable to the particular case, would
lead into too wide a field of discussion to be embraced by the present note. It is obvious, that the law of nations would, in somn

OF THE UNITED STATES.

475

instancespform the rule of de~ision; in others, such as civil causes 1826.
arising out of contract, and questions Of property, the laws of the '%
several States would form the rule; but in what manner the juris- U. States
V.
diction of the national Courts is to be exercised in prosecutions
Ortega.
against consuls for offences not declared penal by any act of Congress, is a subject on which a great contrariety of opinions has
prevailed. In its more general application, this has been stated as
a question, whether the United States, as a national government,
have any common law, or, in other words, whether the C6urts of
the United States have any common law jurisdiction. In a late
essay upon ihe nature and extent of thejurisdiction of the Courts'
of the United States, Mr. Duponceau has proposed a very elegant
and i'geni6ius solution of this problem, by assuming a distinction
between the common law as a source of power, and as a means.
for its exercise. From the -common law, considered in the first
point of view, he contends, that in this country nojurisdiction can
arise; while, in the second, every lawful jurisdiction maybe exercised through its instrumentality, and by means of its proper application. He denies its ca acity to confer any powers on the
Courts of the Union which they do not possess by the written
code of the national government; but, he insists, that as - a system
of jurisprudence,it is the national law of the Uni6n, so far as it
h~as not beeni altered by the, constitution, or by acts of Cohgress.
Thus) in the case of consuls, it is the constitution which gives the
jurisdiction in personam, but it is the local law of the State, (whether'common oi statute,) which must furnish the rule of decision
in the absence of any regulation by Congress applicable to cases
affecting them. And,in this view, the learned author insists, that
the 34th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.,'making the
laws of the several States, except where the constitution, treaties,
or statutes of the United States, otherwise provide, rules of decision in trials at common law in the Courts of the Union, in cases
where they apply, includes both criminal and civil cases. But the
question, for all practical purposes, is settled in this Court according
to the authority of the case of the United States v. Hudson and
Goodwin, k(d Cran h's Rep. 32.) in which it was determined, that
the Courts of the Union cannot exercise a common law jurisdiction ; although it is still considered as open for discussion, whenever
a case shall arise rendering it necessary to reconsider that decisioit.
'See the United ,tates v. Coolidge, ante, Vol. 1. p. 415.1

