CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Patterson

v.

Winn;

Circuit Court is erroneous, insomuch as it directs the, said property to be divided among the
said children per capitai and not per stirpes, and
ought to be REVERSE D; and this Court doth so far

the same; and in all things else it is
AFFIRMIED. And the cause is remanded to the
said Circuit Court, that farther proceedings may
be had therein according to law.
REVERSE

[LOCAL LAW.1

DoE, ex dem. PATTERSON, against WINN and

Others.
Ifi general, the validity of a patent for lands can only be impeachedfor causes anterior to its being issued, in a Court of equity. But
where the grant is absolutely void, as where the State has no title,
or the officer has no authority to issue the grant, the validity of the
grant may be contested at law.
The laws of Georgia, in the year 1787, did not prohibit the issuing
of a patent to any one person for more than 1,000 acres of land.
The proviso in the act of Assembly of the 17th of February,
1783, limiting the quantity to that number, is exclusively confined
to head-rights.
Feb. 24th.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Berrien and
Mr. Wilde, for the plaintiff, and by Mr. White,
for the defendant.
Mr. Justice THomPso-N delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This case comes up from the Circuit Court for

Jarch8th. ,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the District of Georgia. And the question pre- 1826.
sented for decision appears by a certificate of di- *-*--.
Patterson
V.
vision of opinion in that Court, as to the admissibility of the grant offered in evidence on the pa'rt Winn.
of the plaintiff.
The certificate states, that the plaintiff, to
maintain his action, offeyed in evidence a patent,
purporting to be a grant, in due form of law,
from the State of Georgia to one Basil Jones,
for seven thousand three hundred acres of land,
including the premises in question. And, also,
the warrant of survey upon which the said tract
of land was laid off and surveyed, and the minutes of the Court which- granted the warrant.
The-defe.ndant's counsel objected to the grant's
going to the jury, affirming the same to be void
in law,-inasmueh as no grant could issue under
the laws of the State for so great a number of
acres as are comprised in the said grant. On
which questiop so made the Court was divided
in opinion.
The-broad ground assumed in the objection is,
that the patent was absolutely void, and not 'even
primafacie evidence of title. The question, as
stated, does not distinctly present to the Court
the point that was probably intended to be submitted. The objection alleges the patent to be
void, because, by the laws of Georgia, no grant
could issue for so great a number of acres as
seven thousand three hundred,without stating the

limitation as to the number of acres. But, from
the argument, it is understood, that the limitation contended for on the part of the defendant.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
-

t.o

Winn.

is to one thousand acres, and that all, grants fibr a
greater quantity are absolutely*void.
'How far it is within the province of a Court
law to entertain
inquiries tending to impeach ofa

How far the po
validity of patent, is

patentofndsjnions
nmay be in]-

a question upon which conflicting opi-

have been held ; particularly in the diffe-

State Courts in this country. By Some, the
patent is considered only primafacie evidence
of
titkl, and open to extrinsic evidence to impeach its
validity. By others, that the defect must appear
upon the face of the patent, to authorize a Court
of law to pronounce it invalid ; and that unless
the defect does so appear, the patent is only voidable, and recourse must be had to a Court of
Chancery to vacate it. By others it has been
considered, that the- powers of a Court of law
were not so broad as laid dowi in the former of
these opinions, nor so limited as in the latter,
but that a Court of law may inquire whether the
patent was issued without authority, or against
the prohibition of a statute, or whether the Sta tq
had title to the land granted. It is unnecessary,
In general, the
validity ofa if not improper, at this time, to enter into an expatent
can
only be
n-ammination which of these opinions is best foundquired
law.

,leached

into atrent

foreulsofrath

cesanterito its bein
,ssued, in ap

t

'nti
f principle.

For, so far as thequestion ap-

iles to the present case, ithas been settled by
cou.t
Court in the case of Polk's Lessee v. Wenty. But w
we'-this
.l
the grant is dell et al. (9 Cranch's Rep.87.)
In that part of
absolutely
void, as being the case to which I refer, the exceptions under
issued without
authority, orconsideration were for causes not apparent on
"
:
--- ,
against
thle.
..
stated
proposion
the
and
sae
positive probi- the face of the patent;
p
p
bitions of stotute, itsvalidi- for decision is, whether in any, and in what cases,
tv may be con-st,
d atlaw. it is allowable, in an action of ejectment, to ira-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

383

peach a grant from the State for causes anterior 1826.
to its being issued. 0 It is said, that the laws for Patterson
V.
the sale of public lands provide many guards to
Winn.
inthe
protect
to
grants,
of
regularity
secure the
cipient rights of individuals, and, also, to protect
the State fr'...i imposition. Officers are appointed to superintend the business, and rules are
framed prescribing their duty. These rules are,
in general, directory, and when all the proceedings are completed by a patent, issued by. the
authority of the State, a compliance with these
rules is presupposed. That every prerequisite
has been performed, is an inference properly deducible, and which every man has a right to
draw, from the existence of the grant itself.
It would be extremely unreasonable to avoid a
grant in any Court for irregularities in the conduet of those who are appointed by the government to supervise the progressive course of a
-title, from its commencement to its consummation in a patent. But, in order to guard against
the conclusion that this doctrine would lead to,
closing the door against all inquiry into any matter whatever beyond the grant for the purpose
of avoiding it, the Court adds, that the great
principls of justice and of law would be violated,
if there did not exist some tribunal to which an
injured party might appeal, and in which the
means by which an elder title was acquired
might be examined, if it had been acquired by
the violation of principles essential to the validity
of a contract; but that a Court of equity is the
more eligible tribunal, in general, for these ques-

384

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. -tions, and they ought to -be excluded from a
But the Court say, there are cases
:Pattersonu Court of law.
T.

Winn.

in which a grant is absolutely void, (or inoperative,) as where the State has no title to the thing

granted, or where the ofcer had no authority to
issue the grant. In such cases, the validity of the
grant is necessarily examinable at law.
This doctrine was again recognised and sanctioned by this Court five years afterwards, when
the same cause (5 Wheat. Rep. 293.) was a second time under consideration; and it is in coincidence with the rule settled in the Supreme
Court of New-York in the case of Jackson v.
Lawton, (10 Johns. Rep. 23.) We may, therefore, assume as the settled doctrine of this Court,
that if a patent is absolutely void upon its face,
or the issuing thereof was without authority, or
was prohibited by statute, or the State had no
title, it may be impeached collaterally in a Court
of law, in an action of ejectment. But, in general, other objections and defects complained
of must be put in issue, in a regular course of
pleadings, on a direct proceeding to avoid the
patent; and we are not aware of any contrary
rule prevailing in the State Courts of Georgia.
But, so 'far as we have any information on the'
subject, the practice there is in aczordance with
the rule laid down by this Court.
grant
Whetherthe
in this-, The objection in this case to the admissibility
cast i,,isof the grant in exidence, is, that it was issued
the without the authority of law, ana in violation of
aainst
provisions

the ?aws
Georgia.

a

o

of certain statutes of the State of Georgia, which,

it is alleged, prohibit the issuing of a grant to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

385

any one person for moire than one thousand acres 1826.
of land; and if the statutes referred to will Ptrson
v.
warrant this construction, the objection was well
law.
of
Court
a
in
sustained
be
can
and
taken,
And this leads to an examination of those statutes as applicable to the grant in question.
The grant bears date on the 24th of May, 1787,
and is for 7,300 acres of land in the county of
Franklin, described by metes and bounds, and
refering to a plat of the same thereuntu annexed.
No consideration is expressed in the grant, or
any designation of the nature of the rights which
made up the quantity of land mentioned in the
grant, but it is in the common form prescribed by
statute. The proceedings of the Court of Franklin county, on the application of Basil Jones, accompany the grant, by which it is ordered that
he have 7,300 acres in lieu of part of old warrants of John Peter Wagnor-Bounty reserved.
This, shows that the aggregate quantity of land
mentioned in the grant was made up. of sundry
old warrants, and affords also an inference of
Abe existence of a practice of consolidating a
number of warrants in one grant; and there is
nothing in the land laws of Georgia prior to the
year 1794, at variance with such a practice, The
limitation as to quantity will be found to relate-to
warrants for head-rights, and not to grants;
and, as warrants were transferable, no objection
existed to their being united in one grant.
The land law of Georgia is comprised under
several statutes, passed at different periods, vaXOL. X-1.

'19

3836

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

rying and modifying the system occasionally, as
o
policy required. But all being in pari materia,
P~atterson
Y.
are to be looked to as one statute, in explaining
The severaltheir meaning and import. Under these laws,
statutes
ofthere were various ways'in which persons beGeorgia

orn-

po-siig
the land came
law, being ill
par

entitled to rights, and could obtain war-

vzat-rants for land; such as head-rights, according

r1, are to be
construed asto the number of a
oe statute.
and to citizens, and

family; bounties to soldiers
likewise for the encourage-

ment of certain manufactures, &c. And for the
purpose of ascertaining and determining whether
applicants were entitled to warrants, a land
Court was instituted in each county, to receive
applications for lands, and grant warrants for
surveys to such as should show themselves entitled to land, according'to the provisions of the
land laws. A county surveyor was required to
be appointed by each county, who was authorized to lay out and survey, to any person who
should apply to him, the land for which a warrant had been obtained. And he was required
to record, in an office to be kept for that purpose, all surveys by him made, so as to enable
those who had any objections to make to the
passing of the grant, to enter a caveat, which
was to be tried by a jury of twelve men, sworn
to try the matter according to law and equity.
And under the act of July 17th, 1783, (Prince's
Dig. 266. sec. 36.) this was declared to be final
and conclusive. An appeal was afterwards given
to the Governor and Executive Council, (sec. 56.
of the Dig.) who were required, and empowered to proceed to decide such caveats, in man-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ner and form as they should think most condu-

1826.

expressly declaring, that
cive to justice; and
'

Pattersoni

from their decision there should be no appeal.
And this 'was the existing law at the time the
grant in question issued. By a subsequent statute, (Dig. see. 83.) the power of hearing and
determining such appeals, and signing grants,
was vested in the Governor alone.
To permit an inquiry whether a warrant, obtained under such guards and checks, was authorized by law, would be opening the door to endless litigation, and against-the spirit and policy
of the land laws in general, as well as the letter
of the statute, which provides for caveats, and
which declares the ultimate decision thereon to
be final and conclusive. If the validity of the
warrants cannot be called in question, the issuing of the grant follows, as matter of course,
and cannot oe said 'to be without authority, unless the statute prohibits the issuing of' a grant
for more than one thousand acres of land.

v.,
Win.

The act relied upon ,on the part of the de-r,bition
The outaitpiob,fendant, as containing such prohibition, -is that Ofed in theac
IiiOlt.ting1733,
the quart=
the 17th of February, 1783, (Dig. sec. 32) and"

is to. be found in the proviso io the first section. ti"
he" grai/ed,,,nd
to,,
The enacting clause relates entirely to head-any one pp,rights, and declares, that each master or head ofned' to heada family, shall be allowed, as his own head-right, ri 'C "
and without any other or further charges than
the office and surveying fees, two hundred acres;
and shall also be permitted to purchase, at the
rates therein specified, a further quantity, according to the number of head-rights in such fahily.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
s
Patterson

v.

Wfinn.

Provided the quantity of land granted and sold
to any or

person shall not exceed one thousand

acres, and that such person do live on and cul-

tivate a part of the said land twelve months, be-

fore he shall be entitled to a grant for the same.
The word granted is said to be used here in
its technical sense, as synonymous with patent,
and to imply a general prohibition to issue a
grant to any one person for more than one thousand acres. Admitting this to be the sense in
which the term is used, the consequence would
not follow that is contended for.

The term is

here used in the proviso; the office of which is.
to limit and restrict the operation of the enacting clause. The enacting clause relates entirely
to Iiead-rights, and is without limitation as to
qtrantitv; that depended on the number of the
fhmily. The master or bead of the family is
allowed 200 acres as his own head-right, on paying office and surveying fees, and- is permitted to
purchase, at the, rate therein mentioned, aiv
further quantity, according to the number of
head-rights in his family. The proviso, however,
limits the quantity to one thousand acres; but
the limitation is upon the stibject matter of the
enacting clause, to wit, bead-rights. The enacting clause speaks of two modes of acquiring
these head-rights. One, a gratuity allowed to
the head of the family; the other, apurchase.
And the words granted and sold, as used in the
proviso, may wAll be construed in reference to
these two modes of acquiring land. And the
proviso is equivalent to saying, that no one per-

OF TIlE UNITED STATIri.

:389

oii shall be allowed, on his own.head-right, and 1826.
on the purchase of head-rights in his family, more Patterson
V.
than one thousand acres. But this does not proWinn.
and
warrants,
otherpurchasixig
from
hibit him
including all in one grant when it is issued.
That the word grainted,-as here used, has re-,
ference to the warrant or incipient step towards
acquiring the title, and not to the consummation
of it by grant, is evident both from the subsequent part of the proviso, and from the use of
the same word, as synonymous with warrant in
other parts of the land laws. By tlhe proviso,
the person to whom land is granted and sold, is
required to live on, and cultivate a part of the
said land twelve months, before he shall be entitled to agrantfor the same. To give tothe word
granted,in the former part of the sentence, the
same meaning as to the word grant in the latter
part, would involve gross incolsistency.
This constructiofi is corroborated by the enacting clause in the third section of the same
act, containing, substantially, a like provision,
that every person 3pplying by head-rights as
aforesaid, shall, previous to his obtaining agrant
for his land, or having it in his power to dispose
of the same, (otherwise than by will ) settle and
improve a part of such tract or tracts as he may
obtain a warrant and survey of, &c.
And, in a subsequent act, passed the 23d of
December, 1789, (Dig. s-ec. 85:) the very word
granted is us-d as the act of the land Court,
whose authority extended only to the issuing of
warrants, and not grants. The enacting clause

S90

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. gives to three or more Justices of the Peace, in
Patterson
their respective counties, the same powers that
V.

win.

had been exercised by four Justices, and an As-

sistant Justice, under a former act; provided that

the said three or more Justices shall each of
them sign all warrants for land by them granted.
Other parts of these land laws might be referred to, to show that this word is not always used
in'a technical sense as synonymous with patent.
And that it is not so used in the proviso to the
act of 1783, we think is very evident; and
throughou't all these laws, so far as we have been
able to discover, whenever there is a limitation to
one thousand acres, it is applicable to the warrant, and not to the grant.
It is clearly to be inferred, from various parts
of these land laws, that warrants were transferable. Thus, in one of the earliest acts passed'on
the subject in the year 1777, (Dig. '261.) it is
provided, that all persons who have had lands
ordered them, and have not taken out grants for
ihe.same, or sold their warrants or rights, or, are
either dead, or left the State, such person or persons as have bought such warrants, or rights and
titles, and continued in this State, shall have
'such lands granted them,, agreeably to such order
or warrant so purchased. And, the lrohibition
-afterwards in the year 1794, (Dig..280.) to survey or renew transferred warrants, necessarily
implies,-that, previous to that time, such traisfers
were sanctioned by the land laws ; and, if,so,
fiere could be no reason wliy a number of-such

OF THE UNITED STATES.

591

warrants should not be consolidated, and in- 1826.
cluded under one grant, although the aggregate Patterson
quantity might exceed one thousand acres.
V.
There might be very good reason for putting this

limitationupon warrants for head-rights, as the
settlement and improvement of the country
might be thereby promoted.
That grants for more than one- thousand acres
were sanctioned, is evident from the act of the
23d of December, 1789, (exemplification produced,) fixing the fees of the officers of the-State;
by which the Governor is allowed six dollars for
signing a grant of land exceeding one thousand
acres. So, also, in the act to revise and amend
the above act, passed the 18th of December,
1792, (Dig. 173.) the Governor is allowed, on all
grants above one thousand acres, at and after the
rate of two dollars for every thousand acres
therein contained. (Dig. 173.)
Upon the whole, therefore, without pursuing
this examination further, we are satisfied, that, in
the year 1787, when the grant in question was
issued, the land laws of Georgia. did not prohibit
the issuing of a patent to any one person for
more than a thousand acres ; and that the grant'
offered on the trial is not, therefore, void in law,
and should have been admitt6d in evidence.
CERTIFICATE.

This case came on, &c.

On

consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion,
and directs it to be certified to the said Circuit
Coirt, that the evidence offered in the Court be-

Winn.

692

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. low by the plaintiff, and to the competency of
Swhich
objection was made, and upon which quesThe U. S.
V.
tion the- opinions of the Judges of said Court
Amedy.
were opposed, was competent evidence, on the

part of the plaintiff, to sustain the issue on his
part, &c.

jCONSTRUC'rIoN OF STATUTE.

EYVDBNCE.j

The UNITED STATEs against AMED1.
Under the act of the 26th of May, 1790, c. S3. [xi.] copies of the
legislative acts of the sexeral States, authenticated by having tile
seal of the State affixed thereto, are conclusive evidence of such
acts in the Courts of other States, and of the Union. No other
formality is required than the annexation of the seal ; and, in the
absence of all contrary proof, it must be presumed to have been
done by an officer having the custody thereof, and competent authority to do the act.
Under the Crimes Act of the 26th of March, 1804, c. S93. [xl.] s. 2.
on an indictment for destroying a vessel with intent to prejudice
the underwriters, it is sufficient to show the existence of an association actually carrying on the business of insurance, by whose
known officers defacto the policy was executed, and to prejudice
whom the vessel insured was destroyed; witlout proving the existence of a legal corporation authorized to insure, or a compliance
on the part of such corporation with the terms of its charter, or
the validity of the policy of insurance.
The terms " any person or persons," in the act, extend to corpora-

tions, and bodies politic, as well as to natural persons.

TnE prisoner, John B. Amedy, was indicted
tn the Circuit Court of Virginia, under the act

