REPORTS
OF

THE DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
FEBRUARY TERM, 1826.

[PR&IZE.]

The MARIANNA FLORA.

The Vice Consul of
Portugal, Claimant.

In Admiralty proceedings,'amendments are made in the appellate
Court, not only as to form, but as to matter of substance, as by the
filing a new count to the libel ; the parties being permitted, whenever
public justice, and the substantial merits require it, to introduce
new allegations and new proofs; non allegataallegare, et non probata probare.
If the amendment is made in the Circuit Court, the cause is heard
and adjudicated by that Court and (upon appeal) by this Court onthe
new allegation; but ifthe amendment is allowed by this Court, the
cause is remanded to the Circuit Court, with directions to permit
the amendment to be made.
An attack made upon a vessel of the United States, by an armed vessel, with the avowed intention of repelling the approach of .the
former, or of crippling or destroying her, upon a mistaken supposition that she was a piratical cruizer, and without a piratical or
felonious intent, or for the purpose of wanton plunder, or malicious
destruction of property, is not a piraticalaggression under the act
of the 5d of March, 1819, c. 75.

Nor is an armed vessel, captured under such circumstances, liable to
confiscation as for a hostile aggression, under the general law of
nations.
Vov;. T

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
.
"w
The Marianna Flora.

The act extends to foreign vessels committing a piratical aggression ;
and whatever responsibility the nation may incur towards foreign
states, by executing its provisions, the tribunals of the United
States are bound to carry them into effect.
Pirates may be lawfully captured by the public or private ships of
any nation, in peace or in war; for they are hoaes humani geneis.
American ships offending against our own laws, may be seized upon
the ocean, and foreign ships thus offending within our territorial
jurisdiction, may be pursued and seized upon the. ocean, and
brought into our ports for adjudication.
But, in such cases, the party ieizes at his peril, and is liable to costs
and damages if he fails to establish the forfeiture.
Ships of war sailing under the authority of their government, in time
of peace, have a right to approach other vessels at sea for the purpose of ascertaining their real characters, so far as the same can
be done without the exercise of the right of visitation and search,
which does not exist in time of peace.
No vessel is bound to await the approach of armed ships under such
circumstances; but such vessel cannot lawfully prevent their approach by the use of force, upon the mere suspicion of danger.
Where an aggression was committed by a foreign armed merchant
vessel, on a public armed ship of the United States, under these
circumstances, and a combat ensued upon mutpal misapprehension
and mistake, the commander of the public ship was held exempt
from costs and damages for subduing, seizing, and bringing into a
port of this country for adjudicatiop, the offending vessel.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Massachusetts.
The original libel filed in the District Court
against the Portuguese ship Marianna Flora,
and cargo, was for an alleged piratical aggression
attempted or committed by the ship on the United Statesd armed schooner Alligator, Lieutenant
Stockton commander, against the act of Congress
of the 3d of March, 1819, c. 75. entitled, " An
act to protect the commerce of the United States,
and punish the crime of piracy.""d
a Which provides, (sec. 1.) that the President of the United
States be auttorized and requested to emplo, so many of the public

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Upon the hearing of the cause in the District

1826.

Court, the Judge pronounced an interlocutoryTheMarian-

sentence of restitution, and subsequently pronounced a further decree for damages, amounting to 19,675 dollars, for the act of sending in
the ship for adjudication, and the consequent detention. An appeal was taken by the libellants
from both decrees to the Circuit Court; and, afterwards, before the hearing of the appeal, by
request of the government of the United States,
and with the consent of the libellants, the ship
and cargo were restored to the claimants, and furarmed vessels as in his judgment the service may require, with
suitable instructions to the commanders thereof, in .protecting the
merchant vessels of the United States, and their crews, from piratical aggressions and depredations. (Sec. 2.) "1he President of
the United States is authorized to instruct the commanders of the
public armed vessels, of the United States, to subdue, seize, take,
and send into any port of the United States, any armed vessel or
boat, or any vessel or boat, the crew whereof shall be armed, and
which shall have attempted or committed any piratical aggression,
search, restraint, depredation, or seizure, upon any vessel of the
United States, or of the citizens thereof, or upon any other vessel ;
and also to retake any vessel of the United States, or its citizens,
which may have been unlawfully captured upon the high seas.
(Sec. 3.) Authorizes the merchant vessels of the United States to
defend themselves against any piratical aggressions, &c. and to
capture the assailant. (Sec. 4.) Whenever any vessel or boat,
from which any piratical aggression, search, restraint, depredation,
)r seizure, shall have been first attempted or made, shall be captured and brought into any port of the United States, the same
shall andl may be adjudged and condemned to their use, and that
of the captors- after due process and trial, in any Court having
ad'miralty jurisdiction, and which shall be holden for the district
into which such captured vessel shall be brought; and the same
Court shall thereupon order a sale and distribution thereof accordingly, and at their discretion.

na Flora.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

ther proceedings respecting the same were abandoned. The only question, therefore, litigated
na Flora. in the Circuit Court, was upon the point of damages, and, ultimately, a decree was there pronounced reversing the decree for damages; and
this constituted the matter of the present appeal.
. Pending ihe proceedings in the Circuit Court,
leave was granted to the libellants to file a new
count or allegation, in which the aggression was
stated to be hostile, and with intent to sink and
destroy the Alligator, and in violation of the law
of nations.
The facts which were given in evidence, and
relied on: to support the allegations in the libel,
were substantially as follows: On the morning
of the 5th of November, 1821, the Alligator and
the Marianna Flora, were mutually descried by
each other on the ocean, at the distance of about
nine miles, the Alligator being on a cruize against
pirates and slave traders, under the instructions
of the President, and the Portuguese vessel being
bound on a voyage from Bahia to Lisbon, with a
valuable cargo on board. The two vesselswere
then steering on courses nearly at right angles
with each other, the Marianna Flora being under
the lee bow of the Alligator. A squall soon afterwards came on, which occasioned an obscuration for some time. Upon the clearing up of the
weather, it appeared that the Marianna Flora
had crossed the point of inteisection of the
courses of the two vessels, and was about four
miles distant on the weather bow of the Alligator. Soon afterwards she shortened sail and

The r
Marian-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

hove to, having at this time a vane or flag on her

1826.

mast, somewhat below the head, which, together T

-with her other manceuvres, induced Lieutenant
Stockton to suppose she was in distress, or wished for- information. Accordingly, he deemed it
his duty, upon this apparent invitation, to approach her, and immediately changed his course
towards her. When the Alligator was within
long shot of the Portuguese ship, the latter fired
a cannon shot ahead of the Alligator, and exhibited the appearance and -equipments of an
armed vessel. Lieutenanc Stockton immediately
hoisted the United States' flag and pendant.
The Marianna Flora then fired two more guns,
one loaded with grape, which fell short, the other
loaded with. round shot, which passed over and
beyond the Alligator. This conduct induced
Lieutenant Stockton to believe the ship to be a
piratical or a slave vessel, and he directed his
own guns to be fired in return; but as they were
only carronades, they did not reach her. The
Alligator continued to approach, and the Marianna Flora continued firing at her at times, until
she came within musket shot, and then a broadside from the Alligator produced such intimidation that the Portuguese ship almost immediately
ceased firing. At that time, and not before, the
Portuguese ship hoisted her national flag. Lieutenant Stockton ordered the ship to surrender,
and send her boat on board, which was accordingly done. He demanded an explanation; and
the statement made to him by the Portuguese
master, and other officers, was, that they did not

na Flora.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

know him to be an American ship of war, but

" rian
Marian- took
The

him to be a piratical cruizer.

Under these

na Flora.

circumstances, without much examination of the
papers, .or the voyage of the ship, Lieutenant
Stockton determined to send her into the United
States, on account of this, which he deemed a piratical aggression. She was, accordingly, manned, and sent, with her officers and. crew, under
the orders of Lieutenant Abbot, into Boston.

Feb.ebth.

Mr. .1. Knapp, for the appellants, argued,
(1) upon the facts, to show that the visitation of
the Marianna Flora, and her detention for examination and search, were unlawful and unjustifiable. He insisted, that the Portuguese master
was deceived by the omission of the Alligator to
affirm her flag with a gun, according to the law
and usage of the nations on the European continent.a, He had a lawful right to resist the approach of the other vessel, until assured, beyond
all reasonable doubt, of her true national character.' A remark of Lord Ellenborough, in an
analogous case, recognises such nmanceuvres as
were used by the Marianna Flora, as coming
within the legitimate acts of defensive resistance.
He says, "aefence might happen in virious
ways, as by making a show of confidence in the
face of an enemy, with a view to deter him from
an attack.'" Upon the topics of the nature or
a 2 Azuni, 203. 2 Wheat. Rep. .4ppendix, 10. 1 Code des
Prises,parLe Beau, 223.
b Puffend. 1. 2. c. S. sec. 8. 2 Ruthlerf. 493. 2 Azuni, 207.
c 6 East's Rep. 202.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

character of unblameable defence, and the time 1826.
when forcible resistance may lawfully begin, and Teaa
The Marianthe extent to which it may be carried, particularly na Flora.
between persons belonging to different civil socidties, or between vessels of different nations, on
the ocean, authorities were cited from various
text writers, as applicable to the situation of the
Portuguese master, and justifying his conduct.'
It was asked, if it be lawful for private ships to
arm, in time of peace, for the purposes of selfprotection, whether that libert did not comprehend the right to do with force whatever, under
existing circumstances of apparent peril, human
instinct and natural prudence -would dictate ?
Could the maxim that we must so use what belongs to us as not to infringe the rights of others,
be inconsistent -with this principle ? Could it be
the duty of the master of a merchant vessel
arihed for such a purpose, when his nation was at
peace with all the world, and when the seEis were
infested with pirates, to suffer another armed vessel to approach him without first being satisfied
of her pacific intentions? .Still less was it his
duty to submit to the exercise of the right of visitation and search, (a right which has no existence in time of peace,) in the unlawful manner
in which it was 'attempted to. be exercised.
2. It was insistedthat if the search and examinationt had been made in a lawful and deliberate manner, it must have resulted in a conviction
a lRuther. 372-377. 398. 180. Pufend.1. 2. c. 5.
6 2,4zuni, 205. 1 Iason's Rep. 24. -The George.

6. 8.
G

CASE'S ]N THE SUPREME COURT

1826.: of the innocence of the Portuguese ship, and
As, in
Thle Marian- her dons equent immediate liberation.
na Flora. this case, simple reparation only was sought,
and not vindictive damages, it was considered
sufficient to refer to the case of the Appollon,
where it was laid down by this Court, that, except in cases of captures jure belli, or on exemption expressly created by statute, even probable
cause will not excuse from simple reparation.'
But, there must, in every case, be probable cause
to justify the seizure.6
3. But, it was further contended, that the subsequent detention and sending in of the ship for
adjudication, was wholly unjustifiable, and subjected the seizor to damages. Even the harsh
and unbending rules of prize law render the captors liable to costs and damages whenever the
evidence of the neutrality of the ship and cargo
exists on board, unless it is afterwards shown to
be enemy's property, or to have bedn guilty of
some unneutral conduct, rendering it liable to
confiscation.' But yet there was a distinction
between a right to seize and examine, and a right
to capture. The right to detain and send in for
adjudication, did not necessarily follow from a
seizure and examination, which might have been
warranted by the circumstances, but which had
not resulted in showing that, there was any reaa 9 Wheat. Rep. 374.
b 2 Cranch'sRep. 64. 170. 3 Cranch'sRep. 458.
c Wheat. Capt.312. Apx. Croke. Repiy to Schlegal 62.
2 Azuni, 212. 1 Dall. Rep. 183. 2 .Wheat. Rep. 333. The
Anna Maria.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

son to doubt the true character of the Portuguese 1826.
vessel, and the innocence of her conduct. But, The Marianat all events, the misconduct of the master, sup- na Flora.
posing it to be ever so aggravated, could not
affect the owners of the ship and cargo, whose agent
he was, for ordinary civil. purposes, but not so
as to subject their property to l6ss or injury by
his unlawful acts. And for the losses accruing
by the detention of the ship and cargo in port,
after it was satisfactorily ascertained that they
could not be proceeded against by the seizors,
there was still less reason to doubt the right of
the claimants to recover damages.,
4. The charge that the Portuguese ship had
attempted, or committed, a piratical aggression
or restraint, within the act of Congress, was considered as negatived by the restitution, with the
consent of the captors, in the Court below. Whatever might be the nature or degree of the offence meant to be defined by the act, it-must be
piratical; and all the authorities define piracy
to be a robbery, or forcible depredation on the
high seas; and they all concur, that a bare assault, without taking or pillaging something, does
not constitute this crime.' If the act of Congress goes beyond this definition, it is not wara 2 Bro. Civ: 4 Adm. Law, 210. 5 Rob. 40. The St. Juan
Baptista. 4 Rob. 58. The Zee Star. 3 Daff. Rep. 333. 2 Wheat.
Rep. .4ppr. 12.
b 2 Woodes. 140. 2 .,zuni, 351. .Bynk. Q. J. Pub. Duponceau's trans. 127. note. 2 Bro. Civ. ,k Adm. Law, 462. 1 Sir
L. Jenkins' Life, &c. 91. 5 Wheat. Rep. 161. 3 Wheat. Rep.
641.
VnT

TT

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
4

a
na Flora.

ranted by the law of nations, and cannot give
jurisdiction to. the tribunals of this country over
the persons and property of foreigners.
Mr. Blake, for the respondents, made three
points:
(1.) The captors were justifiable, under all the
circumstances of the case, in subduing and
taking possession of the Portuguese ship.
.(2.) They were justifiable in sending her in
fo adjudication.
(3.) There was probable cause of seizure and
sending in for adjudicati on.
1. Even the sentence of the District Court
admits that Captain Stockton was not liable to
damages for the mere act of subduing and seizing thd ship. She had committed a hostile and
piratical aggression on a public vessel of the
Uniteil States in time of peace. The learned
counsel here entered into an able and elaborate
argument upon the evidence, to show that the
first aggression was committed by the Portuguese ship, and that it was not justified or excused by the conduct of the Alligator. It was a
predetermined, deliberate, and wanton attack;
not an accidental rencounter, nor the -result of
any mistake. It was an act of private war, and
the onus probandi is on the claimant to show
that it was authorized by the law of nations. Admitting even that the Alligator pursued the Portuguese vessel, she had an unquestionable right
to approach her' in time'of peace ; and an attempt
to exercise the right could not be construed into

OF THE UNITED STATES.

an act of hostility, or warrant the use of force to 1826.
prevent it. As the ocean i the common pro- The
an
perty of all nations, every nation has a right to na Flora.
its free use, and no one can claim the exclusive
control of a larger portion than is sufficient for
the purposes of its own movements. -The regulations as to keeping out of cannon shot, and

sending a boat on board, are applicable only to a
state of war, and to the exercise of the bellige-

rent right of search, which, it is admitted, does
not exist in time of peace. Indeed, these regulations are the creatures of conventional law,
and bind those nations only between whom they
are established by special treaty. But the Alligator was a .public armed ship, belonging to the
navy of the United States, and sent out to cruize
against pirates and slave traders, under the different acts of Congress passed for the suppression
of these offenders. Captain Stockton was authorized by these laws, and his instructions under
them, to seize and subdue all vessels and persons
offending against them, wherever they might be
found. If every-vessel on the ocean has a right
to draw around her a magic circle, and to prevent by force the approach of all others, it is obvikus that the acts of Congress must remain a
dead letter, since their could not be executed
without approaching sufficiently near to ascertain
the probable character of the vessel. The act
of heaving to, on the part of the Marianna Flora,
indicated either a desire to speak the Alligator,
or to get the weather gage for the purposes of
annoyance; and, in either case, it was the duty

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of Captain Stockton to change his course, and
The Marian- overhaul the Portuguese ship. But the circumna Flora. stance of the hostile guns which were soon afterwards fired from the Marianna Flora, without
hoisting any national flag, made it still more imperatively his. duty to approach her; and had he
avoided the rencounter, he could not have justified his conduct to his government and his country. He had a right, then, to pursue and capture, founded upon the act of Congress, and his
instructions. He was justified in considering
the ship as having not only attempted, but as
having actually committed, a piratical restraint
and aggression, within the meaning of the act.
But, independent of the authority derived from
this statute, he was justified in pursuing and subduing the aggressor, upon the more general
grounds of natural and public law. The right
of freely navigating the ocean, and of self-defence, of repelling force by force, was common
to both vessels. The Alligator was not bound
to decline the combat by flight. In the expressive words of Baron Puffendorf, " in a state of
nature,* the aggressor hath no right, by which
the other party is bound to decline his violence,
rather than oppose it; and the reason why a
man, under his natural condition, sometimes
chooses rather to fly than fight, is not out of any
favour to him who sets upon him, but because
he thinks it more convenient for his own affairs
to fly, like hares, whose armouris in therfeet."a
1826.

a U 2.,c. 13. s. 14.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This doctrine has reference to the condition of 1826.
man in a state of nature; and such was the con- T'aandition of the parties. now before the Court, when na Flora.
upon the ocean, and waging war with each other.
The vindices injuriarumrt were not there, and
each party became of necessity his own avenger
and judge. As to the Alligator not firing a gun
in affirmance of her flag, it cannot surely be pretended that such an idle ceremony could give any
additional assurance that she was what she pretended to be, or that the general law of maritime
states requires any such ceremony. It may be
the particular usage of Spain and Portugal, and
it may have been adopted between some other
nations as a part of the conventional law; but it
has reference exclusively to a state of war, and
is a mere regulation of the exercise of the belligerant right of visitation and search.
Still less can it be maintained that the Portuguese had reasonable grounds to suspect that the
Alligator was a pirate, and had hostile designs.
upon his ship, and, therefore, he had a right to
attack and destroy her. The analogies of. the
municipal law may assist to illustrate this branch
of the inquiry., What degree, or what grounds
of fear of bodily harm, will justify an act that
may result in the destruction of human"life, is,
in some cases, a question of great delicacy and
difficulty. By the rules of the common law, the
rights of the party assailed are confined within
very narrow limits. The danger must.be manifest, impending, and almost unavoidable. But
the writers bn natural law may, perhaps, on this

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

occasion, be more properly cited ; and the fol-

The MariehThe

lowing passage from Puffendorf affords the full-

naFlora.

est illustration of the principles applicable to
this subject. "Sometimes," says he, " a doubt
has arisen whether, if one assault me, by mistake, without any evil design, but with intent to
employ his force against another, I may kill him
in my own defence. Grotius makes this clear
in the affirmative. (De J. B. acP. lib. 11. c. 1.
s. 2.) Inasmuch as nature obliges us to maintain
peace with others, it may, and ought to be presumed, that every one will fulfil this obligation,
unless he give manifest evidence of contrary designs." "But now, (speaking of timely preparations for self-defence,), though my providing
thus far for my security can be injurious to none,
yet, before I can actually assault another under
colour of my own defence, I must have lokens
and arguments amounting to a moral certainty
that he entertains a grudge against me, and has
a full design of doing me a mischief, so that, un-

less I prevent him, 1 shall immediately feel his
stroke. Among these tokens and signs giving
me a right to make a violent assault upon another man., I must by no means reckon his bare
superiority to me in strength and power. 'Tis
a very gross way of philosophizing which some
men have got, when they tell us, by way of advice, ' He that is able to hurt you, undoubtedly
is willing, and, therefore, without further warning, down with him.' This kind of doctrine is
manifestly destructive of all social commerce
nmong men, and the authors. commonly cited in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1826.

defelce of it, either are such whose character
prevents their authority, or else, in the passages T

alleged from them, they speak only of precaution in our dealing with those who have given us
sufficient tokens of their resolution to hurt us."'
The application of these principles to the case
now in judgment, is too plain to require illustration, and seems to leave no doubt that the respondents are fully justified as to the act of subduing and capturing the appellant's ship.
The bounsel also commented upon a passage
from Albericus Gentilis, which had been relied
on by the learned Judge of the District Court as
supporting his decree, but which, it was contended, had been misunderstood; and, at all events,
was but the opinion of a private individual against
the solemn judgment of a Court of justice in a
case analogous to that now in discussion.'
a Puqfend. 1.2. c. 5. s. 6.
b Albericus Gentilis. HispaniceAdvocationis, c. 27.
Albericus Gentilis is justly regarded as one of the founders of
the modern law of-nations. He was born.in the March of Ancona, in the year 1550, and left Italy with his father, an eminent
physician, who was obliged to fly from that country on account of
his religious opinions. The son afterwards established himself in
England, where he obtained a chair of professor of the civil law
at Oxford, in 1582, and died at London in 1608. His works are,
De Jure Belli, in three books; De Crimince Leswe Majestatis;
De Nuptiis; Comment. ad. L. 3. Cod. de Professoribuset Medicis; and the work above referred to, Hipanice, Advocationis,
which is a collection of opinions given by him as the counsel of Spanish claimants in the English Courts of prize, and may be considered as the earliest reports of adjudged cases of maritime law (Moreri, Dict.) "Albericus Gentilis," says Sir James Mackintosh,
"was certainly the forerunner of Grotius. The opinion enter-

ana Flota.

CASES IN THE SUPREME. COUIRT

1826.
2. The captors were equally justifiable in send'arian-ing her in for adjudication. It was the exercise
na Flora.
tained, at the time, of the difference between them, willbe seen in
the following words of Zouch, the pupil and successor of Gentilis
at Oxford. ' He chiefly followed Albericus Gentilis, and Hugo
Grotius, of whom the former justifies all his positions by authori-

ties of law, the latter tried his doctrines by the test of reason.'"
Edinb. Rev. vol. 27. No. 53. art. 9.
Singular mutability of human opinions! Nearly all the writers
cited by Gentilis are now forgotten; he himself is hardly known
except by name; even Grotius is little readand, however extensive the effects of his great work on his own age, it is now considered as resting more on the authority of the innumerable writers
of every age and nation cited by him, than on original principles,
or the deductions of reason.
The editor has supposed, that the following translation of the
passage from Gentilis, above referred to, would not be uhacceptable to the reader.
" Concerning an English vessel whichfought with a Tuscar,
and wag taken.
"An English ship was captured by a Tuscan, after an engagement, and confiscated. The Florentine Judges state, as the ground
of this decree, that the English ship was the aggressor, and that
the Florentine acted only in necessary defence. With submission,
your honours, I will reply, that your premises Are void of probability, your conclusion ;f truth. Por instance; he ispresumed
the aggressor,who supposed himself injured; in such a case,
where it is a question of intention, opinion is sufficient. The
Tuscan may have supposed himself injured by the commerce of
the English with the Turks. [Therefore, the Tuscan, not the
Englishman, was the aggressor.] 4gain; he is presumed the
aggressorwho lies in wait, in arms. Such was the case of the
Tuscan, who (as appears from what he had done to other vessels
of ours) was cruizing for our merchantmen in that trade. Again;
he is presumed the aggressor,who is superiorin strength. And
who does not see the Tuscan vessel of war was stronger than our
merchantman ? Agai ; he is presumed the aggressor, who, being
armed, is accustomed to conflicts. Does this character also suit
the merchantman, or, rather, the cruizer ? Finally; he is pre-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

both of a right and a duty. Taking it for grant- 1826' Mar naned, that there was a right to subdue, and to cap- The
na Flora.
sumed the aggressor, who, under the circumstances already
stated, conquers. And which is he? Why dd we ask; the decree of condemnation declares that the Tuscan first fired twice on
the Englishman.
".4gain ; did not the Tuscan begin the battle? He is considered as beginning who has provoked to the battle, to hostility ;
and he is considered principal in the crime, with whom the malice
began, and to him, as the aggressor, are justly imputed the consequences. And will those Judges tell me, that it is apractce and
sign of amity tofire once and again? It is the custom of a ship
of war hailing another vessel, and assuming this authority. The
Tuscan vessels practised this at that time, and in other cases.
Then, the defence of the English was against a claim of authority, againstthreats. The object of the Tuscans 'was to search
our ship, as' appears from their transactions with others; they
came, therefore, to interrupt our navigation, to intercept our commerce, as appears from what they did with others. Deeds declare
the intention. The deed of the Tuscans was unlawful, if a huntsman cannot lawfully enter another man's farm without the owner's
permission; if it is unlawful to injure an enemy, in a neutral territory, and if territory in this respect differ not from jurisdiction.
Neither shall the custom above alluded to (if ever any where so
received) be now obtruded upon me as a law of the sea relative to
the power of ships of war; for, although the custom may be admitted on the shores of the prince to whom the vessel belongs, it
cannot in other seas. Nor let us regard1 the opinion of those customaryjuristi, but adhere to those who proceed on general principles. [ZWey teach that] The defence of the Englishwasjustfearing an attack. And the bare preparationof anotheragainst
one giving me a right to assault andslay hiF. Infact, am not
obliged to wait till I am assailed. I have a right to commence.
This is the opinion more favourable to humanity, and proved from
facts on trial, and is also confirmed by all the writers. ' We -must
go to meet the assault, [say they,] not only that which actually
exists, but that which may takeplace.'
3
VOL. XI.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

ture, the right to send in for adjudication follows
as a corollary. The right to seize depended upon

na Flora.
" The defence of the English was justifiable even on the behalf of
the Turks, who were to suffer injury from the Tuscans in our ship.
For, an injury is done to us,-which is done to another in our house;
and a ship is compared to a house. So, an injury done to a fellow
traveller, is done to us. It was, therefore, commendable for us to
defend those whom we had undertaken to carry. -Nay, we ourselves were entitled to be spared, although carriers [of enemy's
property, simply as such] should not be so entitled. It was still
necessary for us to defend ourselves, through fear lest we should
suffer, by being confounded with the Turks, and by a wish to save
our own property. Thus, in a case still harder to defend, Cravetta held, when a city shut its gates on its lord, through fear of
being ravaged, and for the sake of preserving its property, and in
order that, with a few guilty, the remaining innocent might not be
confounded.
"If, then, it was a defence of ourselves, and a just defence, the
attack of the Tuscans must have been unjust. But, grant that
their attack was just. Certainly, in the doubtful conflict of just
attack, and just defence, every one will think the defence entitled
to favour. There are all degrees of just, equitable, and favoured,
and that which is more just, is to be preferred to that which is less
so. But, grant that the assault was on our side, and that it was
unjust. Shall a stipulated surrenderavailus nothing? 7YTey
are not regardedas captured,who have surrendered,even frqm
extreme necessity.
-" But, grant that they were captured, are persons and property
captured the perquisites of the captor? On this supposition,
there is a kind of war between us and the Tuscans, and this a battle between enemies, which, therefore, must be adjudged by the
public rules of war, and not those of pirates and murderers. The
most learned Alciati is to the contrary, and the plainest law teaches
that neither captured persons. nor goads' accrue to the captor.
" But, grant that captured goods do accrue to the captor; tie
goods, in this case, did not belong to the combatants; and the deed,
of these mariners must not prejudice the owners. The mariners

OF THE UNI T ED STATES.

the fact of the offence committedby the captured 1826.
vessel. The captors had no authority to applyThe Marianthe law to the fact, to sit in judgment upon the naFlora.
case, and to inflict summary justice on the offender. Still less could the commander of a public
ship be expected to assume the responsibility of
suffering the offender td- escape. It was apparently a piratical, or, at least, a hiostile aggression
against the law of nations, which had been committed upon a public vessel of the United States.
It is not essential to constitute the piratical restraint and depredation, which is meant to be
punished by the act of Congress, that there
should be an intent to rob or plunder. Any wanton attack on a vessel, on the high seas, and especially an attack with an intent to sink the vessel,
and destroy the lives of the officers and crew, is
clearly within the letter and the spirit of the act.
If a homicide had been occasioned by this aggression, it could not be considered as justifiable or
excusable, upon the principles of the criminal
code of this, or any other civilized country; and
not being justifiable or excusable, it would be a
are not to be understood to have done wrong by the order of the
owners ; nor the latter to have given orders otherv -ethan according to mercantile usage. I The owners must not suffer, although
the mariners should say they had acted according to orders.'
It See how, even in the liberal concessions I have made in the
defence, the mariners would hardly be responsible, the owners not
at all. But, since the defence of the mariners was on every principle just, what follows but that the Tuscans should restore to us,
as to persons plundered, every thing taken away, with damages,
eostq, interest, profits. &c. to the last farthing."

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

case of murder, and if a case of murder, of pi-

aratical
The Marianna Flora.

murder.

Now, if the act attempted to be

done would have been piratical, the attempt also
was piratical. It may, indeed, be said, that the
act of Congress is broader than the rule of international law on this subject; that, by the law of
nations, an attempt to commit a7 piracy is not a
piracy; and, therefore, the detention and sending
in for adjudication was unlawful., Supposing
this to be so, argumenti gratia, still the judicial
tribunals of this country are bound to protect the
officer who acts under it, and in obedience to it.
This very question of an apparent collision between the law of nations and a municipal ordinance, was presented to the mind of that great man
who presides in the British High Court of Admiralty, in the memorable case of the orders in
council, and disposed of without hesitation or
difficulty, upon the plain and intelligible ground,
that he could not presume the prize ordinances
of his own country to be repugnant to the law
of nations.2
But, supposing it not to be a piratical aggression,
an attempt to commit one, still it was an
act ofordeliberate,
wanton, flagrant hostility, committed against the law of nations, and the rights
of this country as one of the community of nations. For such an offence there must be some
punishment, and the appropriate penalty inflicted in analogous cases, is that of confiscation.
Thus, in the case of the Anne, this Court cona Edw. dm. Rep. 311.
b 3 Wheat. Rep. 435.

The Fox.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

demned, as prize of war, enemy's property taken 1826.
The • drianlwithin neutral jurisdiction, upon the ground, that Th.M
the captured vessel had made the first attack na Flora.
upon the captor, and, by this act of aggression
on the other belligerant, had disturbed the
state of peace which is always supposed to exist in a neutral port.
3. There was probable cause, such as will exempt the captors from damages. Probable cause
is, where a seizure is made under circumstances
which warrant suspicion, and upon evidence less
than that which would justify condemnation."
No case can be shown~where a Court of the law
of nations has decreed damages merely for bringing in for adjudication, if the original seizure was
justifiable, unless under peculiar circumstances
not affecting the principle, or its application to
the present case. The learned counsel here
cited and classified all the cases to be found in
the English books, where damages had been
given or refused; and deduced from them the
general inference, that wherever there is probable cause for the original seizure, the captors
are only liable to make simple restitution, even
if upon adjudication it turns out that their suspicions were groundless.
a 7 Cranch'sRep. 348. Locke v. United States.
b The three classes of cases affecting this question, are,
(t.) Where damsages have been given or refused on restitution.
(2.) Where compensation has been given, or refused, the prize
being lost in the hands of the captors. (3.) Where, although

restitution was decreed, the captors have been allowed their costs
and expenses.
I. In the Corier Maritime, (1 Rob. 287.) demtirrage was'given

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'T

1826.
The Marianna Flora.

As to the decision of this Court in Murray v.
The Charming- Betseyait is affirmed by Mr.

for unnecessary detention, and unjustifiable delay in proceeding to
adjudication.. In the Zee Star, (4 Rob. 71.) demurrage was given
to the claimants, and costs and expenses refused to the captors,
(which are usually allowed even on restitution,) for improper delay
in proceeding to adjudication. In the Triton, (4 Rob. 78.) costs
and damages were given to the claimant of the goods, and demurrage for the ship, for seizure on an insufficient ground. In the
.11adonna del Burso, (4 Rob. 169.) all the circumstances concurred of a seizure originally unjustifiable, protracted detention, and
improper delay in proceeding to adjudication : costs and damages
were given. The Peac-ock, (4 Rob. 185.) was the case of an unj ustifiable detention of the .prize vessel, carried into Lisbon, and
delay in bringing her home to England for adjudication. The
Witlilmsburg, (5 Rob. 143.) demurrage allowed, and the expenses of the application given against the captors, for loss arising
from his not bringing the captured vessel to thw most convenient
port for adjudication,within the meaning of the prize act. In
the Zacheman, (5 Rob. 152.) which was a mistake as to the law of
contrabano under the Swedish treaty, and the seizure was pronotinced perfectly justifiable, demurrage was allowed for unreasonable delay. The Adina, (5 Rob. 332.) was a case of restitution,
with costs and damages, for a violation of the neutral territbry of
the United States. The seizure itself wai pronounced to be unjustifiable, and costs and damages were given, because the prize
ship was improperly brought from the mouth of the Mississippi to
England for adjudication, instead of being carried into one of the'
Vest India islands. In the Washington, (6 Rob. 275.) damages
were given for bringing the vessel to an inconvenient port. The
Acteon (2 Dods.48.) was an American ship sailing under a license,
unlawfully seized and burnt. The St. Antonio (Acton, 113.)
was sailing under a license to enter the port of Holland, but was
seized under suspicion of an intention to go to a French port. On
bringing in, the captors offered to liberate on payment of their expenses, but afterwards retracted, and went on to adjudication.
a 2 Cranch'sRep.116. 122.

OFl'THE

INITED STATEb.

Dallas, arguendo, as a general principle of ma-

1826.

ratime law, that probable cause will justify a ma- The Marianrine seizure, is not denied by the opposite coun- na Flora.

sel, and is impliedly conceded by the Court in its
judgment, the whole scope of which goes upon
There was a decree of restitution, and the claimants appealed to
the Lords for, costs and damages; the appeal was rejected, and
the claimants condemned to pay the costs of the appeal. In the
Cat, arinaElizabeth, (Acton, 309.) costs and damages were given
by the Lords for carrying the captured vessel to an inconvenient
port. In the Louis, (2 Dods. 210.) damages were refused by Sir
V. Scott, although he held the seizure clearly illegal, it being a
case of the first impression.
IL The rule on the subject of compelling the captors to proceed to adjudication, where the property is lost in their hands, is,
that where the seizure is unjustifiable, the captor is answerable for
every loss or damage. In cases ofjustifiable seizure, he is responsible for due diligence only, and is held to simple restitution in
value.
The Carolina, (4 Rob. 255:) was a neutral ship which had
been employed incarrying French troops to Egypt, dud was taken
coming away. Had she been taken in actual delicto, she would
have been liable to 'condemnation. The captors iwere held exempt,
not only from costs and damages, but from restitution in value, the
ship having been lost while in their possession by stress of weather.
In the Williamz, (6 Rob. 316.) the original seizure was held justifiable, but restitution in value was decreed ior a loss occasioned by
not taking a pilot on board, but no damages were given. Inthe"
Der Mohr, (3 Rob. 129.) the original seizure was considered as
justifiable, but the captor. were l.d responsible to make restitution in value (not for c),ots and dama.2es) on account of the loss of
the vessel by the ignorant.e ,ad wilfiaoess of the prize master.
III: In g.neral, the captors are allowed the"i" exppnses and costs
on restitution, whenever there is probable cause of capture. The
Inmina, (3 Rob. 167.) The Princpe, (Ediv. 70.) Th& only exceptions to this rule are where theri has been some negligence or
misconduct on the part of the captors. "There are a great number
,if
cases on this head, which.it was deemed unnecessary to cite.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

all inference of fact from the evidence, that there
The Mlarian- was not probable cause of seizure, showing, that
nu Flora. if there had been, damages would -not have been
given. In Little v. Bareme,a the Court did not
deem it necessary to determine whether the probable cause afforded by the conduct of the captured vessel to suspect her of being an American, would exempt the captors from damages,
because it was of opinion that had she been so,
the seizure would still not have been warranted
by the law. And the case of Maley v. Shattuck",'
was the application of the ordinary principle of
the Prize Court, that if the seizure is without
probable cause, the captors are liable to make
restitution, with costs and damages, even if the
property be lost without their fault; .evidently
implying, that if there had been probable cause
for the original seizure, they would not have been
so liable.
Mr. Webster, on tle same side, entered into a
minute examination of the evidence, in order
to show that the party, who was in fact the
wrong doer, and the aggressor, now appeared before the Court in the character of a plaintiff, seeking redress for a supposed injury done to
himself. It had been said, that the owners of
the ship, and of the cargo, were not to be held
responsible for the misconduct of the ma'ster.
There were two answers to this objection;
(1.) That it was not the captors who were seek'

2 Gran'"s Rep. 169.

b 3 CranchlsRe. 458,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing to punish the owners, but the owners who

1826.

i
were seeking compensation against the captors
The
S.

for the consequences of the misconduct of their
own agent. (2.) That the universal principle,
applied by Courts administering the law of nations, was to consider the thing taken in dlicto,
as'responsible, whether it was the property of
the master, or .of others. In cases of blockade,
of contraband, of carrying enemy's property with
false papers, of resistance to visitation and
search, he is considered as the agent of the owner
both of ship and cargo. So, also, the revenue
laws, from the necessity of the case, regard him
in that character, and subject the vessel and goods
under his control to confiscation for his unlawful
acts. In every case, until the innocent are separated from the guilty, until examination and regular adjudication canhe had, the law is compelled
to regard the ship, and every thing on board, as
belonging to the master.
It had also been contended, that though the
original seizure might be justifiable, the captors
were liable in costs and damages for not releasing the vessel after she was subdued and seized.
But it was not pretended that Captain Stockton
had authority to punish her himself; and, therefore, unless the Portuguese ship had, notwithstanding all that had happened, a clearright to go
off with impunity, he had an unquestionable right
to send her in for adjudication. If she had a
right to pursue her voyage, she would have had
the same right if the consequences of her aggression had been ever so calamitous; if she had

Marian-

na Floa.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR[

1826.

crippled the Alligator, and destroyed half her'

a
crew.
The ,'larianna Flora. rious,

The actual consequences being less se-

do not affect the right, though they may
the exercise of discretion. But we have nothing
to do here with the question of military discretion. The captured vessel had made war. She
had committed wfat was, primafacie, a piratical restraint and depredation. If unexplained, it
was piracy. Whether it could be satisfactorily
explained, or excused, was a question to be decided by the civil tribunals. It was nottoo much
to s ay, that the captors had here something of a
belligerant right. The act of Congress was not
a mere municipal law; it was a prize ordinance.
The seizure was not a mere municipal seizure.
War against pirates existed, and the act was intended to define who should be treated as pirates. And, even if the Court should now be of
opinion, that the captured vessel ought not, under
all the circumstances, to be sent in, still the quesLion recurs, whether Captain Stockton might not.
at that time, have thought otherwise. He was
called on, suddenly, to decide and act on a question full of difficulties, and which has occasioned
no little embarrassment to the civil tribunals,
with all the advantages of a deliberate examination. Even with these advantages, the learned
Judges of the Courts below have differed in their
judgments upon it; and yet, it is now contended, that this naval commander was bound to
be better instructed in the laws than those whose
peculiar duty it is to study and expound them.
Upon these grounds it was,. that Sir W. Scott

01' THE UNITED STATES.

,determined, in the case of the Louis," that it

1826.

being a case primte impressionis, the captors The

were exempt from costs and damages, although
the Court was clearly of opinion, that the seizure itself was unjustifiable, a right of search not
existing in time of peace. A doubt respecting
the true constructioh of the law, is as reasonable a ground for seizure, as a doubt respecting
the facta But, here was doubt respecting both
fact and law, and that doubt is not yet cleared
up. The capture was made in repelling what
appeared, at the time, to be-an act of piratical
aggression. It has turned out not to be so, after
a judicial examination. But, the question is,
what it appeared to be recentifacto. It cannot
be maintained, that an habitual course of piratical depredation is necessary to constitute the offence of piracy A single act of piratical aggression, -stimulated by revenge, or national prejudice, or wanton cruelty, would be sufficient.
The act of Congress evidently supposes it, and
is in conformity with the public law.
It had also been argued, that this was a municipal seizure, and that the vessel having been re.stored without a certificate of probable cause,
costs and damages followed as a matter of course.
But, it was insisted, that municipal seizures are
for offences within our own territorial jurisdiction, or by our own citizens elsewhere. Here,
the proceedings are under the law of nations;
and, if found guilty, the property would be con.9 2 Dods. Rep. 210. 26,1.

b 5 Cranch'sRep. 311.

Marian-

na Flora.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. demned, not for a municipal offence, but as prize,
And, even if it had
The -~f.
Marian- and distributed as prize.
na Floxa. been a municipal seizure, it could not be admitted
that such consequences would necessarily follow
in every case, without regard to its circumstances.
The true principle applicable to seizures of every
kind was, that the party having a right to cruize,
and bring in some vessels, if others so conduct
as to give themselves the character of those who
are liable to capture, they would be entitled to
nothing but simple restitution. This is laid down
in clear and satisfactory terms by Sir W. Scott.
"The natural rule is, that if the party has been
unjustly deprived of his property, he ougbt to be
put as nearly as possible in the same state as he
was before deprivation took place; technically
speaking, he is entitled to restitution with costs
and damage:,. This is the general rule; but, like
all other general rules, it must be subject to modifications. If, for instance, any circumstances
appear, which show'that the suffering ,party has
himself furnished occasion for the capture; if he
has, by his own conduct, in some degree contributed to the loss; then he is entitled to a somewhat less degree of compensation, to what is
technically called simple restitution.",
Mr. Emmett, for the appellants, in reply, argued, that the second count in the libel filed in
the Circuit Court, charging a hostile aggression,
was inadmissible, as the original subject matter
a The Acteon, 2 ]?ode. Rep. 48.

OF THE UNITED STATEs.

of the suit was originally cognizable in the Dis- 1826.
trict Court, (where the ship and cargo had been Th£'e Marianlacquitted from the original charge of a piratical na Flora.
aggression,) And to allow such an amendment
would be to institute an original, and *notan appellate proceeding, in the Circuit Court.
The appellants were entitled to damages as
claimed. The capturing vessel derived her right
under the municipal law. The piracy alluded to
in the act of Congress is sea robbery. It is an
act to protect commerce ; and the history of the
times shows, that the great evil to be remedied
was the. system of depredations on the ocean.
They were, indebd, frequently accompanied with
murder, and various other enormities. But these
were only subservient to the system of plunder,
and intended only to facilitate or conceal the
crimes of the offenders. The piracy referred to
is, that by the law of nations, and not by any peculiar law of the United States.a And, even if
our statutory piracy had been contemplated in
this act, it would not apply to the present
case. The Crimes Act of 1790, defines the
piracy created by that statute to be " murder,
or -robbery, gr any other offence, which, if committed within the body of a county, would, by the
laws of the United States, be punishable with
death." Now, as the firing by the Portuguese
did no mischief,no offence *as committed, which,
if committed on land, would be punishable with
a United States v. Smith, 5 Wheat. Rep. 153.
v. The Pirates, 5 Wheat. Rep. 184.

-

United States

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'1

1826. death. Besides, it has been determined, that
-i- , this section of the Crimes Act does not extend
The ' MariannaFlora. to foreign vessels.a

For the purposes of this

case, then, if not for the purposes of every case,
it may be assumed, that the piratical aggression
mentioned in the act of the 3d of March, 1819,
c. 76. must be with intent to rob or plunder. Nor
can the act affect the antecedent rights of other
nations. It did not, and could not, create a state
of war. Pirates are, indeed, called hostes humani generis; but the use of such metaphorical
language is, often calculated to mislead, and to
confound our ideas of legal rights. They are,
indeed, public offenders, like the highway rob-.
ber, but they are not public enemies so as to give
those who cruize against them any of the rights
of wai in respect to the subjects of friendly
states who are not involved in their guilt. The
act could not give to our own ships the-right of
visitation and search, or any other belligerant
rights, so far as respects foreign nations. It
could not affect the pre-existing right of Portuguese subjects to maintain for themselves the
privileges of a state of peace. Its utmost effect
would be to impose on vessels of this country
the obligation to submit *toexamination, and the
seizures it authorizes must be regarded as strictly municipal. The commissioned vessel must,
therefore, act on credible information, or on evidence it has of acts of piracy. A claim to exaa United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. Rep.610.
v. Clintock, 5 Wheat. Rep. 144.

United States

OF THE UNITED STATES.

mine or detain vessels of another nation on sus-

1826.

picion, without information or evidence, would Te
be as large as the belligerant right of search, na Flora.

though under another name. If the commissioned vessel acts against a foreign vessel, it acts at
its own peril, and (more especially when it-acts
without information or evidence) must abide the
consequences as to damages if it has acted erroneously. In captures jure belli, if there be probable cause, the captors are entitled, as of right,
to an exemption from damages; but, in case of a
municipal seizure, there must be some provision
of positive law creating and defining the exemption. The party who seizes does it at his peril; if condemnation follows, he is justified ; if an
acquittal, then he must make compensation,' unless he can protect himself under some statute.a
It has been said, that under this construction,
the act would become a dead letter. The same
was said in the case of the Louis, and the answer
of Sir W. Scott to the objection is conclusive
and pertinent to the present case.
But the objection is unfounded. The dangerous pirates are, for the most part, not difficult to
distinguish. Their haunts, their iabits, their appearance, point them out; and though the commissioned officer acts at his own risk, yet if he
act on those indicia, and on information and evidence, and stays his hand where he can find no
trace or evidence of guilt, he 'incurs no real danThe Apollon, 9 1l heat. Rep. 372.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURI

1826.

ger of being liable to damages; and, in any event,
a
may rely on the justice and liberality of his own
The MariannaFlora. government for protection.
This is also the
doctrine of the municipal law in analogous cases
on land, both criminal and revenue proceedings.
One of the privileges of a state of peace, which
the Portuguese have still a right to maintain for
themselves, is the benefit of the principle, that
on the high seas the merchantman is equal to the
man-of-war. Each may protect itself according
to its sense of expediency and necessity, and resist the doing of any thing by the other, as a
right, which is not a right. If the man-of-war
has no right to examine, the merchantman has a
right to resist that examination. Even in war, a
vessel navigating the ocean may, to a certain extent, draw a line of jurisdiction around itself.
This is proved by the restrictions put on the

right of search. It is said, indeed, that these
are the result of treaty stipulations. But they
-are the result of a true interpretation of the law
of nations, and have been recognised in treaties,
because England had practically violated the
right. A fortiori, in time of peace may every
vessel draw a circle of jurisdiction around itself,
and resist the exercise of that search and visitation which is not lawful in time of peace. It is
upon this ground that Sir W. Scott held the doctrine, that if a neutral resist search, not knowing
of the existence of a war, it isno ground of condemnation i and that still more recently he has
a The St; Juan Baptista, 5 Rob. Rep. 36.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

determined that the right of vigitation and 1826.
search does not exist, and cannot be exercised The M/arianin time of peace.a Every ship navigating the na Flora..
ocean in time of peace may appropriate to her
temporary use so much of it as is*necessary to
her protection, consulting the equal rights of
others. It is a right that will lie dormant, and
never be exercised except upon real apprehension. When there is no apprehension of danger, the consent to approach will never be withheld. But the right to approach in invitum can
never exist; and, both parties being independent
and equal, each party is to judge for himself as
to the extent "and reality of that danger. Unless
this exclusive right of judgment is maintained,
the approach of pirates could never be prevented, who frequently assume the flag of public
ships, and fall upon their victims under this disguise.
The learned pounsel here argued upon the
evidence to show, that upon a just application of
these principles, the conduct of the Marianna
Flora was perfectly justifiable. The first fault
was committed by the Alligator in chasing, and
not affirming her flag with a gun. This is the
law of nations, and recognised as such by every
naritime nation on the continent of Europe.
The language of Azuni'on this subject is peculiarly appropriate to the present case. He says,
"the fear of meeting with a pirate, andbeing the
dupe of deceitful appearances, is the reason why
a The Louis, 2 Dods. Rep. 210.
'Vo..XT.

5

(ASES

IN THE SUPRE41E COURT

1896. no credit is given to theflag of a vessel, though
The Marian- a ship of war."a Had the flag been affirmed, in
na Flora, this instance, in the manner to which the Portuguese are accustomed, they would not have resisted the attempt to approach their vessel, and
all the present consequences would have been
avoided.
They might also have been .avoided, by that
deliberate and impartial examination, which it
was Captain Stockton's duty to make, before he
decided on sending in the ship for adjudication.
It would have been his duty, even in war, to examine faithfully the ship's papers, and pay dtie
respect to the evidence producecT.b But, it is
said, that the usual documentary evidence would
prove nothing, since it was not a question of proprietary interest or neutral character. TI e answer is, that the ship's papers would have Ehown,
that the vessel, whom he treated as a pirate, Was
an innocent merchantman; and that the cargo
was not liable, by the act, to confiscation, even if
the-vessel had been guilty of a piratical aggression. The 4th section of the act only subjects
the vessel or boat to confiscation, and even that
must be understood with the implication that
they are the property of the wrong doers; for
the master can never be considered as the owner
even of the ship, so as to subject it to forfeiture
for-his criminal acts, much less can he be considered as the owner of the cargo for such a pura 2 Azud, 204. 602. c. 3. § S.
b The Anna Maria, 2 Wheat. Rep. S27.

2 Azuni, 212. § S.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pose. In the words of this Court, it may be said,
that, "however general and comprehensive the
phrases used in our municipal laws may be, they
must always be restricted in constructionto places
and persons upon whom the legislature has authority and jurisdiction.Ila

Nor can it be maintained that here was an act
of private unauthorized war committed by the
Portuguese, which, being a violation of the law of
nations, would subject the vessel, if taken in delicto, to confiscation. Private war .never gives
the right of capture and confiscatio." That
belongs to public war alone. In time of war,
every violation of belligerant rights is followed
by condemnation, because it is considered as evidence of enemy's property, which, by the laws
of war, is transferred to the capturing power.
But, in time of peace, to make every violation
of the law of nations, however slight, produce
the condemnation of property, however valuable,
and belonging to innocent persons, would reduce
the law of nations to the sweeping severity of
Draco's code.
In this case, the sending in for adjudication has
been- sought to be justified by hypothetical reasoning, grounded upon the supposition that lives
might have been lost; and a learntb, discussion
of the municipal law of homicide was entered
into, to show, that if any of the Alligator's crew
a The Apollon, 9 Wheat. Rep. 37.
h Stewart's Vice 4dm. Rep. 301.

1826.
na Flora

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. had been killed, it would have been murder;
"'
The a~
Marian- and, then it is asked, whether it would not have
na Flora. been Captain Stockton's duty to send in for trial,
for what would have been clearly piracy. But
we are to deal with the case as we find it. No
lives were, in fact, lost; no injury done to the
vessel. It was nothing but the offence of firing,
and in self-defence, against a vessel that turned
out to be a public ship of war, but which did not
at first manifest her character in the mode to
which the Portuguese had been accustomed.
Was it possible to suppose that such an act could
produce the confiscation of the cargo belonging
to innocent owners, or of the ship, the owner of
which was equally innocent? It was at most a
marine trespass, cognizable in the Courts of the
offender, because it was not a case of war, nor
to be determined by the law of war; or if there
were a doubt whether there was any thing of national. insult in it, it might be a fit subject to be
represented to this government for diplomatic
discussion. But, after the ship and cargo were
brought in; and it was ascertained that she could
not be subjected to confiscation, why were they
detained and proceeded against as if captured
jure belli? Here are a series of wrongs, for
which they who suffer damage must look for
compensation to him whom the law considers as
the wrong doer, although many of them were
the acts of his agents, and done in his absence.
They do not seek vindictive damages, but simple
compensation only. The long list of cases which

OF THE UNITED STATEt.

has been arrayed against us cannot furnish a rule 1826.
for a seizure, which was not made jure belli, but The Mtarianwhich (if to be justified at all) must be considered na Flora.

as having been made in. execution of a municipal
statute. Will probable cause, even if it existed,
furnish a defence in such a case ? That is not
the law of Hoyt v. Gelston,a which was a seizure

under an act of Congress, and where there was
probable cause, though it was not certified by the
Court according to the statute. Is it the law of
any case where the wrong doer acts under municipal laws on his own responsibility? Is it the
law to be collected from the cases of the Acteon,b of Murray v. The Charming Betsey,° of
Little v. Bareme,d of the Jeune JEugenie,e or even
of the Louis P In fhe last case, indeed, damages
were refused, because it was prime impressionis
-a case ofs(,ne doubt and difficulty as to the new
construction of the law of nations, and the application of the French decree respecting the slave
trade, and the parties seeking damages were
law is old, and"
stained with crime. But here the
well settled; and nothing but the ofince is of
novel impression. The parties are innocent; and
the very. novelty of the offence ought more certainly to secure its punishment.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the March 2oth.
a 13 Johns. Rep. 141. 561.
b 2 Dods. Rep, 48. 52.
d 2 Cranch'sRep. 170.
f 2 Dods. Rep. uo.

3 Wheat. Rep. 246.
c 2 Cranch'sRep. 125.
e 2 111ason's Rep. 409. 439.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

Court, and after stating the pleadings, proceeded

The an
Marian- as

follows:

An objection, which is preliminary in its nature, has been taken to the admissibility of this
.
Amendment
the pleadings new count to the libel, filed in the Circuit Court,
by adding a
new
count to upon the ground, that the original subject matter
tim libel.
naFlora.

was exclusively cognizable in the
District Court;

and to allow this amendment would be to institute an original, and not an appellate inquiry il
the Circuit Court. But the objection itself is
founded on a mistaken view of the rights and authorities of appellate Courts of admiralty. It
is the common usage, and admitted doctrine of
such Courts, to permit the parties, upon the appeal, to introduce new allegations, and new
proofs, non allegata allegare, et non probata
probare. The Courts of the United States, in
the exercise of appellate jurisdiction in admiralty
causes, are, by law, authorized to proceed according to the course of proceedings in Admiralty
Courts. It has been the constant habit of the
Circuit Courts, to allow amendments of this natare in cases where public justice, and the substantial merits; required them ; and this practice
has not only been incidentally sanctionpd in this
Court; but on various occasions in the exercise
of its own final appellate jurisdiction, it has remanded causes to the Circuit Court, with directions to allow new counts to be filed. We may,
then, dismiss any farther discussion- of this objection, and proceed to the main questions in
controversy. [Here the learned judge recqapitu-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lated the facts of the case as they have been be-' 1826.
fore stated.]
The MarianIn considering the circumstances, the Court naFlora,
has no difficulty in deciding, that this is not aNot acW Of
case of a piratical aggression, in the sense of the
piratical under
-g- -- gression
theactofCanz
act of Congress. The Portuguese ship,• though
.oT gress.
armed, was so for a purely defensive mercantile
purpose. She was bound homewards with a valuable cargo on board, and could have no motive
to engage in any piratical act or enterprise. It
is true, that she made a meditated, and, in a sense,
a hostile attack, upon the Alligator, with the
avowed intention of repelling her approach, or
of crippling or destroying her. But, there is no
reason to doubt, that *this attack was not made
with a piratical or felonious intent, or for the purpose of wanton plunder, or malicious destruction
of property. It was done upon a mistake of the
facts, under the notion of just self-defence,
against what the master very imprudently deemed a piratical cruizer. The combat was, therefore, a combat on mutual misapprehension; and
it ended without any of those calamitous consequences to life which might have brought very
painful considerations before the Court.
It has, indeed, been argued at the bar, thatThe
e.
tends act
to fo.
even if this attack had been a piratical aggres-re vese
sion, it would not have justified the capture and
sending in of the ship for adjudice ion, because
foreign ships are not to be governed by our municipal regulations. But the act of Corgress is
decisive on this subject. It not only authorizes a
capture, but a condemnation in our Courts, for

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

such aggressions; and whatever may be the rea
sponsibility incurred by the nation to foreign
The M~arianna Flora. powers, in executing such laws, there can be no
doubt that Courts of justice are bound to obey
and administer them.
Not a case of The other count, which seeks condemnation
hostile aggtes,ion for which On the ground of an asserted hostile aggression,
nthe
property admits of a similar answer. It proeeeds upon
to is subject to the principle, that, for gross violations of the
confiscation by
the law of ns- law of nations on the high seas, the penalty of
tions.
confiscation may be properly inflicted upon'the
offending property. Supposing the general rule
to be so in ordinary cases of property taken in
delicto, it is not, therefore, to be admitted, that
every offence, however small, however done under a mistake of rights, or for purposes wholly
defensive, is to be visited with such harsh punishments. Whatever 'may be the case, where a
gross, fraudulent, and unprovoked attack, is made
by one vessel upon another upon the sea, which
is attended with grievous loss or injury, such effects are not to be attributed to lighter faults, or
common negligence. It may be just, in such
cases, to award to the injured party full compensation for his actual loss and damage ; but the infliction of any forfeiture beyond this does not
seem to be pressed by any considerations derived from public law.
Pirates may, without doubt, be lawfully captured on the ocean by the public or private ships
of every nation; for they are, in truth, the common enemjies of all mankind, and, as such, are
liable to the extreme rights of war. And apira1826.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tical aggression by an armed vessel sailing un- 1826,
der the regular flag 1..'2
of any nation, may be justlyT
a
Th6

subjected to the penalty of confiscation for such
a gross breach of the law of nations. But .every
hostile attack, in a time of peace, is not necessarily piratical. It may be by mistake, or in necessary self-defence, or to repel a supposed meditated attack by pirates. It may be justifiable,
and then no blame attaches to the act; or, it may
be without just excuse, and then it carries responsibility in damages. *If it proceed farther,
if it be an attack from revenge and malignity,
from gross abuse of power, and a settled purpose
of mischief, it then assumes the character of a
private unauthorized war, and may be pdnished
by all the penalties which the law of nations can
properly administer.
These latter ingredients are entirely 'vanting
in.the case before us ; and, therefore, if the question of forfeiture were now in judgment, we
should have no doubt, either upon the act of Congress, or the general law, thaf it ought.not to be
enforced.
But, in the present posture of this cause, the
libellants are no longer plaintiffs. The claimants interpose for damages in their turn, and have
assumed the character of actors. They qontend
thatthey are entitled to damages, first, because the
conduct of Lieutenant Stockton, in the approach
and seizure of the'Marianna Flora, was unjustifiable ; and, secondly, because, at all events, the
subsequent sending her in for adjudication was
without any reasonable cause.
VOL. XI.

6

arian

na Flora,.

(ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
\.
Tihe

iaMarian-

In considering these points, it is necessary to
ascertain what are the rights and duties of arm-

ed, and other ships, navigating the ocean in time
It is admitted, that the right of visitaRights and d.- of peace.
ties
of arme,
tion. and search does not, under such circumand
other
ships, naviga- stances, belong to the public ships of any nation.
ting the ocean
in time of This right is strictly a belligerant right, allowed
Peace.
by the general consent of nations in time
of war,
and limited to those occasions. It is true, that it
has bEen held in the Courts of this country, that
American ships, offeiding against our laws, and
foreign ships, in like manner, offending within
our jurisdiction, may, afterwards, be pursued and
seized upon the ocean, and rightfully brought
into our ports for adjudication. This, however,
has never been supposed to draw after it any
right of visitation or search. The party, in such
case, seizes at his peril. If he establishes the
forfeiture, he is justified. If he fails, he must
make full compensation in damages.
Upon the ocean, then, in time of peace, all
possess afi entire equality. It is the common
highway of all, appropriated to the use of all;
and no one can vindicate to* himself a superior
or exclusive prerogative there. Every ship sails
there with the unquestionable right of pursuing
her own lawful business without interruption;
but, whatever may be that business, she is bound
to pursue it in such a manner as not to violate
the rights of others. The general 'Maxim in
such cases is, sic utere tuo, ut non alienum
icedas.
It has been argued, that no ship has a right to
ra Flora.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

approach another at sea; and that every ship

1826.

has a right to draw round her a line of jurisdic-,rao

tion, within which no other is at liberty to intrude.
In short, that she may appropriate so much of
the ocean asshe may deem necessary for her protection, and prevent any nearer approach.
This doctrine appears to us novel, and is'not
supported by any authority. It goes to establish
upon the ocean a territorial jurisdiction, like that
which is claimed by all nations within cannon
shot of their shores, in virtue of their general
sovereignty. But the latter right is founded
upon the principle o" sovereign and permanent
appropriation, and has never been successfully
asserted' beyond it. Every vessel undoubtedly
has a right to the use of so much of the ocean
as she occupies, and as is essential to her own
movements. Beyond this, no exclusive right
has ever yet been recognised, and we see no
reason for admitting its existence. Merchant
ships are in the constant habit of approaching
each other on the ocean, either to relieve their
own distress, to procure information, or to ascertain the character of strangers; and, hitherto,
there has never been supposed in such conduct
any breach of the customary observances, or of
the strictest principles of the law of nations. In
respect to ships of war sailing, as in the present
case, under the authority of their government, to
arrest pirates, and other public offenders, there
is no reason why they may not approach any
vessels descried at sea, for the purpose of.ascertaining their real characters. Such a right seems

na Flora.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. indispensable for the fair and discreet exercise
" - - of their authority; and the use of it cannot be
The.Marianna Flora. justly deemed indicative of any design to insult or
injure those they approach, or to impede them
in theii lawful' commerce. On the other hand, it
is as clear, that no ship is, under such circumstances, bound to lie by, or wait the approach of
any other ship. She is at full liberty to pursue
her voyage in her own way, and to use all necessary precautions to avoid any suspected sinister
enterprise or hostile attack. She has a right to
colisult her own safety; but, at the same time,
she must take care not to violate the rights of
others. She may use any .precautions dictated
by the prudence *or fears of her officers; either
as to delay, or the progress or course of her voyage; but she is not at liberty to inflict injuries upon
other innocent parties, simply because of conjec.
tural dangers. These principles seem to us the
natural result of the common duties and rights
of nations navigating the ocean in time of peace.
Such a state of things carries with it very different obligations and responsibilities from those
which b'elong to public war, and is not to be confounded with it.
whether the conduct
Whetherof the
conduct
tihe The first inquirer, then, is,
captor was of Lieutenant Stockton was, under all the ciraud cumstances preceding and attending the combat,
siubduilug
seizing
theves-.
justifiable. There is no pretence to say that be
Ade
coriimitted the first aggression. That, beyond
'all question, was on the part of the Marianna
Flora-; and her firing was persisted in after the
Alligator had hoisted her national flag, and, of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

course, held out a signal of her real pacific cha- 1826.
racter. What, then, is the excuse for this hostile
attack? Was it occasioned by any default or na Flora.
misconduct on the part of the Alligator ? It is
said, that the Alligator had no right to approach
the Marianna. Flora, and that the mere fact of
approach authorized the attack. This is what
the Court feels itself bound to deny. Lieutenant
Stockton, with a view to the objects of his cruize,
had just as unquestionable a right to use the
ocean, as the Portuguese ship had; and his right
of approach was just as perfect as her right of
flight. But, in point of fact, Lieut6nant Stockton's approach was not from mere motives of
public service, but was occasioned by the acts of
the Marianna Flora. He was steering on a
course which must, in a short time, have carried
him far away from her. She lay to, and showed
a signal ordinarily indicative of distress. It was
so understood, and, from motives of humanity,
the course was changed, in order to afford the
necessary relief. There is not a pretence in the
whole evidence, that the lying to was not voluntary, and was not an invitation of some sort.
The whole reasoning on the part of the'claimants is, that it was for the purpose of meeting a
supposed enemy by day light, and, in this way, to
avoid the difficulties of an engagement in the
night. But how was this to be known on board
of the Alligator ? How was it to be known that
she was a Portuguese ship, or that she took the
Alligator for a pirate, or that her object in'laying
to was a defensive operation? When the vessels

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

were within reach of each other, the first saluta-

%aaThe
M1arianna Flora.

tion from the ship was a shot fired ahead, and, at

the sa.me time, no national flag appeared at the
mast-head. The ship was armed, appeared full
of men, and, from her manoeuvres, almost necessarily led to the supposition, that her previous
conduct was a decoy, and that she was either a
piratical vessel, or, at least, in possession of pirates. Under such circumstances, with hostilities already proclaimed, Lieutenant Stockton
was certainly not bound to retreat; and, upoln
his advance, other guns, loaded with shot, were
fired, for the express purpose of destruction. It
was, theh, a case of open, meditated hos ility,
and this, too, without any national flag displayed
by the Portuguese ship, which might tend to correct the error, for she never hoisted her flag until
the surrender. What, then, was Lieutenant
Stockton's duty? In our view it was plain, it
was to oppose force to force; to attack and to subdue the vessel thus prosecuting unauthorized
warfare upon his schooner and crew. In taking,
therefore, the readiest means to accomplish the
object, he acted, in our opinion, with entire legal
propriety. He was not bound to fly, or to wait
until he was crippled. His was not a case of
mere remote danger, but of imminent, pressing,
and present danger. He had the flag of his
country to maintain, and the rights of his cruizer
to vindicate. To have hesitated in what his duty
to his government called for on such an occasion,
would have been to betray (what no honourable

OF THE UNITED STATES.

officer could be supposed to indulge) an indiffe.rence to its dignity and sovereignty.

1826.
The Mlarian-

But, it is argued, that Lieutenant Stockton
was bound to have affirmed his national flag by
an appropriate gun; that this is a customary observance at sea, and is universally understood as
indispensable to prevent mistakes and misadventures ; and that the omission was such a default
on his part, as places him in delicto as to all the
subsequent transactions. This imputation certainly comes with no extraordinary grace from
the party by whom it is now asserted. If such
an observance be usual and necessary, why was
it not complied with on the part of the Marianna
Flora ? Her commander asserts, that by the
laws of his own country, as well as those of
France and Spain, this is a known and positive
obligation on all armed vessels, which they are
not at liberty to disregard. Upon what ground,
then, can he claim an exemption from performing it? Upon what ground can he set up as a
default in another, that which he has wholly
omitted to do on his own part? His own duty
was clear, and pointed out; and yet he makes
that a matter of complaint against the other side,
which was confessedly a primary default in himself. He not only did not hoist or affirm his flag
in the first instance, but repeatedly fired at his
adversary with hostile intentions, without exhibiting his own national character at all. He
left, therefore, according to his own view of the
law, his own duty"unperformed, and fortified, as
against himself, the very inference, that his ship

na Flora..

48

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

might properly be deemed, under such eircuni-

1826.
\."

'- stances,

The Marian-

a piratical cruizer.

But, we are not disposed to admit, that there
How far the exists any such universal rule or obligation of an
ride or praggnchsbena-h
gun, as has been suggested at thebar. It
tice of affirm - affirmi
na Flora.

ing the flg may
.
with a gun, is

be the law of-the maritime states of the Euro-

a part of the pean continent
awofnations.

already alluded to, founded in their
own usages or positive regulations. But, it does
not hence follow, that it is binding upon all other
nations. It was admitted, at the argument, that
the English practice is otherwise; and, surely,
as a maritime power, England deserves to be listened to with as much respect, on such a point,
as any bther nation.. It was justly inferred, that
the practice of America is conformable to that
of England; and the- absence of any counter
proof on the record, is almost of itself decisive.
Such, however, as the practice is, even among the
continental nations of Europe, it is a practice
adopted with reference to a state of war, rather
than peace. It may be a useful precaution to
prevent conflicts between neutrals, and allies, and
belligerants, and even between armed ships of
the same nation. But the very necessity of the
precaution in time of war arises from circumstances, which -do not ordinarily occur in time of
general peace. Assuming, therefore, that the
ceremony might be salutary and proper in periods of war, and suitable to its exigencies, it by
no means follows, that it is justly to be insisted
on at the peril. of costs and damages in peace.
In any view, therefore, we do not think this omis-ion can avail the claimants.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Again; it is argued, that there is a general
obligation upon armed ships, in exercising the

1826.
Tihe Marian-

right of visitation and search, to keep at a dis' naFlora.
tance, out of cannon shot, id to 3 nean them- inow frthe
conventional
, in respect
selves in such a manner as not to enuanger neu--law
trals. And this objection, itis added, has been spe- tothe manoner
cially provided for, and enforced by the stipula- the right ofviis apwith foreign pow-search,
tions of many of our own treaties
plicable to this
a
•
ers. It might be a decisive answer to this argu- cas..
ment, that, here, no right of visitation and soarch
was attempted to be exercised. Lieutenant
Stockton did not claim to be a belligerant, entitled to search neutrals on the ocean. -His commission was for other oLjects." He did not approach or subdue the Marianna Flora, in order
to compel her to submit to his search, but with
other motives. He took possession of her, not
because she resisted the right of search, but because she attacked him in a hostile manner, without any reasonable cause or provocation.
Doubtless, the obligation of treaties is to be
observed with entire good faith, and scrupulous
care. But, stipulations in treaties having sole
reference to the exercise of the rights of belligerants in time of war, cannot, upon any reasonable principles of construction, be applied to govern cases exclusively of another natur6, and belonging to a state of peace. Another considera-.
tion, quite sufficient to establish that such stipulations cannot be applied in aid of the present
case, is, that whatever may be our duties to other
nations, we have no such treaty subsisting with
VOL. XI.

7

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

1826.

Portugal. It will scarcely be pretended, that we
The Marian- are bound to Portugal by stipulations to which
na Flora. she is no party, and by which she incurs no
correspondent obligation.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that the
conduct of Lieutenant Stockton, in approaching,
and, ultimately, in subduing the Marianna Flora,
was entirely justifiable. The first wrong was
done by her, and his own subsequent acts were a
just defence and vindication of the rights and
honour of his country.
Whether the

The next in.quiry is, whether the act of send-

act of sending
in for acjudi-ig
cation subjectc,' the captorunder
to

costs

damages.

in the Marianna Flora for adjudication, was,
all the circumstances, unjustifiable, so as
and
to carry with it responsibility in damages.
It is argued, that, upon examination of the
ship's papers, the crew, and the cargo, it must
clearly have appeared, that the ship was a merchant ship bound on a lawful voyage, and not a
piratical cruizer. This state of the case must
be admitted to have been apparent. But the
real difficulty is of another sort. Her papers,
and cargo, and destination, could give no information of the nature of the attack made upon
the Alligator. However hostile, malignant, or
even piratical, the aggression might be, the papers could shed no light upon the subject. The
owners of the cargo, and the owners of the ship,
(so far at least as their duties and responsibilities were not bound up by the acts of the master, as their agent,) might be innocent; the voyage might be of a purely mercantile character,
and yet, acts of aggression might be committed,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which might bring the case completely within 1826.
the act of Congress, or of the general •law of The Marian,
nations, as a gross and violent injury, calling for na Flora.
ample redress. The real duty imposed upon
Lieutenant Stockton was, not to examine the
papers, unless so far as they might explain doubtful circumstances, but to ascertain the nature,
object, and intent, of the attack upon his vessel.
He was bound to exercise an honest and fair
discretion on the subject, and to obtain such explanations as might guide his judgment. What
was the excuse offered for the attack upon him ?
It was not that the guns were fired by*mistake
or accident. They were admitted to have been
by authority and design. They were fired after
his own flag was displayed, and With the express intention of disabling the vessel and destroying the -rew. The only excuse offered for
this unjustifiable act was, that the commander
entertained a fear that the Alligator was a pirate.
But, such a fear, unauthorized by any acts on
,the other side, was no excuse for a wrong which
might have led to the rhosf fatal consequences.
If the Alligator had been seriously injured, or
any of her crew had been killed, no doubt could
exist, that, under such circumstances, the ship
ought to have been sent in for adjudication, to
enforce redress, and, also, to administer, 'if necessary, punishment. The attack was not the
less inexcusable because the comequenees were
not as injurious as the master intended.
It is a different thing to sit in judgment upon
A is case, after full legal investigations, aided by

52
1826.

CAS .. IN THE SUPREME COUR'I

the regular evidence of all parties, and to draw
The rM~arian- conclusions at sea, with very imperfect means of
na Flora. ascertaining facts and principles, which ought to
direct the judgment. It would be a harsh judgment to declare, that an officer charged with
high and responsible duties on the part of his
government, should exercise the discretion intrusted to him at the peril of damages, because
a Court of law might ultimately decide, that he
might well have exercised that discretion another
way. If Lieutenant Stockton had acted with
gross negligence or malignity, and with. a wanton abuse of power, there might be strong grounds
on which to rest this claim of damages. But, it
is conceded on all sides, and in this opinion the
Court concurs, that he acted with honourable
motives, and from a sense of duty to his government. He thought theaggression was piratical,
and that it was an indignity to the national flag,
utterly inexcusable. The view now taken by
this Court, in respect to the whole case, upon a
full examination of all the, facts, is certainly
somewhat different. It leads us to say, that
Lieutenant Stockton might, without justly incurring the. displeasure of his government, have released the ship, not because she had done no
wrong, but because the wrong was not of such a
nature as called for vindictive redress.
But, tho question upon which damages must
depend, is not whether he might not have released the ship, but, whether he was, at all events,
bound so to do; and whether that obligation

OF THE UNITED STATES.

was so imperative, that the omission ought to be
visited with damages.

1826.
The M arian-

We are, then, to consider the real difficulties naFlora.
of Lieutenant Stockton's situation. An attack
had been made upon a national ship under his
command without cause. It was a hostile act, an
indignity to the nation, and a trespass upon its
rights and sovereignty. It was not an accidental, but a meditated act; not necessarily carrying
own excuse along with it, but susceptible of
dilferent interpretations. It was not.-an affair in
which lie was .at liberty to consult his own wishes
or honour merely, although a brave and distinguished officer might naturally feel some solicitude to preserve his high reputation untarnished
in the eyes of his government. He was bound
to look to the rights of his country. He might
well hesitate in assuming the arbitration of national wrongs. He might well feel a scrupulous
delicacy in undertaking to waive any claim which
the government had authority to enforce, or to
defeat any redress which it might choose to seek,
or to prevent any inquiries which, through its
established tribunals, it might think fit to institute,'in respect to his conduct, or that of the offending vessel. Considerations of this natiure
could not but weigh heavily upon th mind of a
gallant officer; and they are not unfit to be entertained by this Court in forming its own judgment.
It is, also, farther to be observed, that the case
was confessedly new in its character and circum.stances. The researches of counsel throughout

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'I

1826.

the progress of this protracted controversy, have
°.Thne M~aiian- not discovered any case, which, iii point of law,
na .lora.
can govern this. If it is new here, it may well be
deemed to have been new and embarrassing to
Lieutenant Stockton. In such a case, it is not
matter of surprise, that he should come to the
conclusion that it was not proper to take upon
himself the responsibility of a final decision;
but to confide the honour of the nation, as well
as the rights of the other party, to judicial decision. No inference is attempted to be drawn,
that his acts were intentionally oppressive and
harsh ; and it would be going a great way to declare, that an exercise of honest discretion, in a
case of wrong on the other side, ought to draw
after it the penalty of damages.
AnalogyofdaThere is another more general consideration,
mages given
for detentionwhllh is entitled to great weight in this case.
on

captures

urwc belli.

In

cases of capture, strictly so called, no decision
has been cited, in which, if the capture itself was
justifiablej the subsequent detention foF adjudication has ever been punished by damages. As
far as counsel have examined, or our own researches extend, no such principle has ever been
established. The present case stands up on a
strong analogy, and to inflict damages would be
to desert that analogy. Even in cases of marine
torts, independent of prize, Courts of admiralty
are in the habit of giving or withholding damages
upon 6nlarged principles. of justice and equity,
and have not circumscribed themselves within
the positive boundaries of mere municipal law.
They have exercised. a conscientious discretion

OF THE UNITED STATES.

upon the subject.

A pdrty, v*ho is in delicto, 1826.

ought to make t3a strong case, to entitle himself to The Mr ian-

general relief.
The case of the Louis, (2 Dodson's Rep. 210.)

na Flora.

co of the

is a striking example in illustration of these re-sons qd,
210.)
marks. There, a French slave ship' was, in a Rep.
time of peace, taken possession of by an English
armed cutter, after a sharp engagement, in which
several men were killed on both sides. The ship
was carried into Sierra Leone for adjudication,
and, subsequently, the cause came before the
High Court of Admiralty upon appeal. The de.cision pronounced by Lord Stowell appears to
have been made after very full consideration,
and is exlrunded in his most elaborate manner.
He decid.'d, that the original seizure was totally
unjustifiable; and that, even if the slave trade
was prohibited by the French laws, (which, he
thought, it was not,) still, it was not for English
cruizers to claim a right of search, or to seize
such vessels to enforce those laws. He, therefore pronounced a decree of restitution. But
he denied damages and costs to the claimant. -His
language on that occasion was, " Upon the matter of costs and damages, that have been prayed, I must observe, that it is the first case of the
kind, and that the question itself is prine impressionis; and that, upon both grounds, it is not
the inclination of the Court to inflict such a censure." Here, then, we have a case of an acknowledged .maritime trespass, accompanied with
circumstances of immediate and fatal injury, in
which the original wrong travelled along with.

tASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

and infected the whole'subsequent proceedings;

r
and yet
The Marian-

the Court, on account of its being the first

instance, and of the novelty of the question,
deemed it a conscientious exercise of its discretion not to award damages. The case before
this Court is also of the first occurrence, and the
question is entirely new in its presentation. It
has this striking fact, in which it is most favourably distinguished from the' Louis, that the original seizure was justifiable, and if the intent of
piratical aggression had been established, condemnation must have ensued.
If, then, this Court should, under these circumstances, award damages, it would take a new
step, never known to have been taken before by
a Court of admiralty. It would desert the analogy of-cases of justifiable capture in matters of
prize, and introdude a rule harsh and severe in a
case- of first impression, whose bearing and character have engaged the bar and bench in several
most laborious discussions, and inflict upon an
honest. exercise of discretion, a punishment
which has been denied, in the Louis, to an inexcusable wrong,ase not ex- There are one or two other suggestions which
O:usively
conizable in the were urged in the argument, that ought not to
tribunals of
Pobtugal.
e passed over in silence. It is said, that the
tort, if it ,ought to be redressed at all by a proceeding in rem, was exclusively cognizable in
the Courts of Portugal. We are not aware of
any principle upon which this pooition can be
legally maintained. There is no more reason
why the Courts of Portugal should bold exclu..
naFlora.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sive jurisdiction upon this case, than the Courts

1826.

of this country. We see no difficulty in support- The.Alarimning the jurisdiction as concurrent in both nations. na Flora.
But, if there be any choice, it seems more properly to belong to the country of the injured,
than of the offending, party.
It is also said, that, at all events, the argo
x'as not liable to coiademnation, even if the offending vessel was liable- under the act of Congress.. Probably this is true in respect to that
act. But tlie second count embraces -a wider
range ; and if it had been proved in its aggravated
3xtent, -it does not necessarily follow, that the
cargo ought to be exempted. That is a ques-.
tion which would require grave deliberation. It
farmasthe
of actHow
of the
is, in general, true, that the act of the master Oter binds the
the vessel does not bind the innocent owner of v
of the
the cargo ; but the rule is not- of universal application. And where the master is also agent of
the owner of the cargo, or both ship and cargo
belong to the same person, a distinction may,
perhaps, arise, in the principle of decision. But,
however this may be, in the present case, if the
vessel was sent in for adjudication, the cargo
must, of necessity, accompany her; nor could
its particular ownership be fully ascertained,
until the examinations of the crew were, regularly taken. There is no evidence in this case
to show, that at any subsequent period it was
desirable, or could have been advantageous to
the claimants, to have separated the ship and
VOL. XF.

8

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
,, 31aiian-v- .
Tile

cargo, and to have instituted a new voyage for
the latter under other auspices.

In the Dist. ict Court, an allowance was made
ofof five hundred dollars, distributable among the
Qttestion for
damages
j- crew, on account of their confinement on the paspo
na Flora.

ris to tho caP- sage to Boston, upon the ground, that the sendtircd crew.

ing in of the vessel was wrongful. That award
was reversed in the Circuit Court; and no appeal was taken by the crew, as, indeed, none
could be, on account of the insufficiency of the
sum to entitle the parties in interest to appeal. It
is only necessary, therefore, to state, that that
matter is not now before this Court; and, it. is
to be presumed, that the confinement was such
only as was indispensable for the safety of the
seizors.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court,
that the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be
affirmed, and it is, accordingly, affirmed, without
costs to either party.
Decree accordingly.

