226

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Taylor's Devisee
V.

Owing.

ILOCAL LAw.j

TAYLOR'S

Devisee against OWING and Others.

Al entry, calling for the land to lie on the east side of Slate creek, a
southwest branch of the main fork of Licking, " beginning where
a buffalo road crosseth said creek at the inouth of a branch emptying into said creek at the northeast side, it being the place of beginning for S. M.'s entry of 20,000 acres," is defective in certainty and precision ; and its defects are not aided by the reference to
S. M.'s entry for " 20,000 acres, lying on the west side of Slate
creek, southwest branch of the main fork of Licking creek, beginning where the buffalo road crosses Slate creek, at the mouth of a
branch, emptying in on the east side thereof; there are several cabins," Skc. " to include a large quantity of fillen timber," &c.

'eb. 1111.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Talbot, for the

appellant, and by Mr. T rimble, for the respondents.
Feb. 2T.

Mr. Cliief Justice MARSHALLL delivered the opinion of the Court.
The appellant filed a bill in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Kentucky, praying a conveyance of a tract of land
for which the defendants had obtained elder patents, and which the plaintiff claimed in virtue of
a prior entry, which was made on the 6th of January, 1783, and is in these words: " James
Taylor enters. 12,000 acres of land on ten treasury warrants, No., &c. : to be laid off in one or
more surveys, lying on the east side of Slate

tile TIiE UNITED STATES.

227

creek, of sourthwest branch of the main fork of 1826.
Licking ; beginning where a buffalo road cross'I'D
Taylor's Deeth said creek at the mouth of a branch emptying visee
into said creek on the northeast side, it being the Owing.
place of beginning for Samuel Meredith's entry
of 20,000 acres; running from thence with said
Meredith's line down Slate creek, binding with
the same the distance of three miles when reduced to a straight line from the beginning to his
lower corner; thence continuing down the'east
side of Slate creek, binding with the same as far
as will amount to three miles when reduced to a
straight line from Meredith's lower corner;
thence extending from each end of this reduced
line of six miles a northeast course, and continuing said course until a line at right angles to
the same shall include the .quantity of vacant
land, exclu,-:ve of all legal prior claims."
The entry of Meredith was made on the 30th
of November, 1822, and is in these words:
" Samuel Meredith enters 20,000 acres, lying on
the west side of Slate creek, -southwest 'branch
of the main fork of Licking creek; beginning
where the buffalo road crosses Slate creek, at the
mouth of a branch emptying in on the east side
thereof; -there is several cabins on' said
running from the beginning down Slate creek,
and binding thereon as far as will amountto
three miles when .reduced to a straight line;
then from the beginning running up Slate creek,
and binding thereon as far as will amount to three
miles when reduced to a straight line from the
beginning, to include a large quantity of fallen

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

timber; and then to extend from the upper and
~ lower end of .these lines on the bank of Slate
Taylor's Devisee
creek, a west course, until a line running due
V.
Owing. south and north shall include the quantity of vacant land required to be laid off in one or more
surveys."
The defendant contends, that -this entry is invalid, because it does not describe the land it
seeks to appropriate with such certainty as to
enable a subsequent purchaser to avoid it, and
to locate the adjacent residuum.
The land is to lie on the east side of Slate
creek, a southwest branch of the main fork of
Licking. Slate creek was well known by this
name, but it is a stream of considerable extent,
and the law requires, that the particular part of
it on which Taylor's land is placed, should be
designated so specially and precisely, that a subsequent locater, using due diligence, and possessing ordinary intelligence, might appropriate the
adjoining vacant lands. The plaintiff cortends,
that this certainty is to be found in the description of Taylor's place of beginning. It is in
these words: " Beginning where a buffalo road
crosseth said creek, at the mouth of a branch
emptying into' said *creek on the northeast side,
it being the place of beginning for Samuel Meredith's entry of 20,000 acres."
It is the plain dictate of good sense, which is
supported by the whole current of decisions in
Kentucky, that an entry, to satisfy the law, must
describe the place with sufficient accuracy to be
found and known by others, and in terms which
1826.

:229

oF THE UNITED STATES.

will not fit other places equally well with that intended to be appropriated.

1826.

-- ToD
Taylor's De-

The particular descriptive wo:ds, or, in the
technical language of the country, the locative
calls of the entry, are a buffalo road crossing
Slate creek at the mouth of a branch emptying
into the creek on the northeast side, and Meredith's beginning. The plaintiff contends, that
these words describe. the mouth of Little Slate
creek.
Little Slate is a creek which empties -into
Slate on its northeast side, some say 30 or 40,
others 50 or 60 miles, by the meanders of that
stream above its mouth. The whole length of
Slate is not mentioned by the witnesses, but it is
sufficiently apparent, that its source is a considerable distance above its mouth. Two creeks,
Little Slate, and Mile creek, Roe's run, and several branches, empty into it on the northeast side,
and it is crossed by numerous buffalo traces,
some of which are not far from the mouths of four
streams, though no one is so near as that just below the mouth of Little Slate. The crossing
place near that creek is stated to be ten or twelve
yards below its mouth, by some of the witnesses,
and by others to be rather more.
The objections made to this entry, are not 6nly
that it is vague, but that it is calculated to mislead. It calls for a buffalo road crossing the
creek at the mouth of a branch einptying into it
on the east side. This trace is said to be so
small as not to be generally denominated a road.
The traces made by buffaloes are stated to be

visee
Owing.

CASES hN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

of various dimensions, from three to ten o.,
twelve' feet wide, and sometimes wider. This
Taylor's Denear the mouth of Little Slate is about a foot
visee
owing, wide, and isnearly lost in the bottom. It is re\

presented by some of the witnesses rather as a
deer path than a buffalo road. These traces
have been called, by the inhabitants, roads, traces,
and paths. Some of the witnesses-say, that
these naries are used indiscriminately; others,
that they designate larger or smaller routes; the
word "1road" being applied to a large trace, and
" path" to a small one; that the trace at the
mouth of Little Slate would never have been
spoken of as a road,
Although the distinction between a road and a
path is common throughout our country, yet, the
Court must have supposed, that it was not taken
in Kentucky in reference to the traces of buffaloes, had the witnesses concurred in making
this declaration.- But they have not concurred
in it. Many of them aver, that the distinction is
as applicable to tracts of this description as to
others, and is in as common use. The Court,
therefore, cannot avoid supposing, that a subsequent locater, finding this small path near the
mouth of Little Slate, and uirderstanding that
there were considerable roads near the mouths
of other streams, would. think that this could
not be the road required by Taylor's entry.
There is a still more important variance in the
character of the stream itself. The entry calls
for a branch, and Little Slate is a considerable
It could scarcely be mistaken for what
creel.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is denominated a branch; and a subsequent lo-

231

1826.

cater, intending to lay his warrant at this place,
Taylor's De-

could not reasonably suppose, that it was already
visee
appropriated by an entry professing to begin at owing.
the mouth of a branch. In argument, the counsel
for the plaintiff has sought to get over this difficulty by varying the language of his entry. He
treats the question as if the entiy bad called for
a branch of Slate creek, and shows that Little
Slate fits this call. The argument would have
been strong had the language of the entry sustained it; but the words are, "the mouth of abranch
emptying into Slate." The difference between
"a branch of Slate," and " a branch emptying
into Slate," is obvious.
There is still a farther, difficulty which the
plaintiff must encounter in this part of his case.
It is alleged, that Little Slate was the notorious
name of the stream when Taylor's entry was
made. It is well settled in Kentucky, that if objects called for in an entry are distinguished by
a known name, it is a serious defect to call for
them by a name which they possess in'common
with other similar objects, instead of their appropriate name. If, then, the .fact be, that when
Taylor's entry was made, Little Slate had its appropriate name,, the locater ought to have used
that name, and his substituting in its place the
general call for " a branch emptying into Slate
on the northeast side," constitutes a serious objection to the entry, which would require the aid
of other words describing the place with. greater
certainty.

232
1826..
T'y"

visee
Owing.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The testimony on this point is not perfectly
- clear. Elias Folin says, that, so early. as 1775, he

was one of a company that made improvements
on that stream, and they called it Slate.

George Balla was also one of a company of
improvers who encamped on Little Slate in 1776,
and knew it then by that name. He knew it by
the same name in 1783.
Isaac Clinkerhead knew Little Slate by that
name in 1784, and thinks he heard it so called in
1782.
Ralph Morgan says, that Little Slate was well
known by that name in 1782.
William Williams has frequently heard hunters speak of Little Slate as a place of notoriety,
previous to November, 1782,. when Meredith's
entry was made.
John Lix was with a company of hunters on
Little Slate in 1776, when John Clarke gave the
stream the name of Little Slate, and he has never known it by any other.
George Balla knew Slate, and'Little Slate, by
those names, in-1776.
Joseph M'Intire knew those streams by their
present names in 1782.
These witnesses certainly proye that Little
Slate was known by that name vO 3r extensively
in 1782 and 1783, when the entri ; of Meredith
and Taylor were made. It had, undoubtedly,
acquired that name completely in 1786. A shade
of doubt is cast on the general notoriety of this
name, by the circumstance, that several witnesses who speak of the stream as known to them at

OF THE UNITED STATES.

=53

this early period, and who distinguish it by its 1826.
proper name, do not say that they then knew it Taylor's Deby that name.
visee
James M'Millan became acquainted with Lit- Owing.
tle Slate in 1781, Joseph Young in the fall of
1783 or 1784, and Roger Clements in 1783. Neither.vof these witnesses say they knew it then by
thatname. They do not, indeed, say the contrary;
but the probability is, that had they then known
the stream by its present name, they would have
been interrogated to the point. There is, then,
much reason to believe, that Little Slate had then
acquired its appropriate name, and ought to
have been so designated by the locater, though
the proof is not conclusive.
Upon the whole, we think it very clear, that
Taylor's land is not described with sufficient certainty by the call, "to begin where a buffalo road
crosses Slate at the mouth of a branch emptying
into said creek on the northeast side." Is this
defect remedied by the call for Meredith's beginning ?
This reference to Meredith's entry makes it a
part of Taylor's, and will give the latter the advantage of any certainty of description which
may be found in the former.
Samuel Meredith calls to begin " where the buffalo road
crosses Slate creek at the mouth of a branch
emptying in on the east side thereof; there is
several cabins on said -.

"

The entry is to

include a large quantity of fallen timber.
It will be perceived, that the descriptive, or loVOL. XL

so

4-84
1826.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

cative calls of this entry, vary from those in
~ Taylor's in these respects only. In describing
Tayloi' Devisw
the buffido road, Meredith uses the article
Owing. " the ;" and he likewise adds to his description,
that there are several cabins, either on the creek
or on the branch, (for the word is not in the record;) we suppose on the branch, and that his
location will include a large quantity of fallen
timber.
The objection made to Taylor's entry in consequence of the smallness of the trace crossing
Slate near the mouth of Little Slate, applies with
increased force to this part of Meredith's. The
words, " ihe buffalo road," if they do not indicate a single road, would, unquestionably, lead a
person in search of this entry, to expect a remarkable and conspicuous road; such a road
as crossed Slate near the mouth of Long branch,
or Roe's run, not such a narrow path as crossed
near the mouth of Little Slate.
The cabins alluded to in Meredith's entry,
were not found on Long branch. They were
found on Roe's run, and Mile creek. The weight
of testimony is, that no unusual quantity of fallen timber would be included in Meredith's survey if the beginning is at Little Slate, but would
be included in it if the mouth of Roe's run be
taken as the beginning. The two additional circumstances, then, the cabins and the fallen timber, are found, one of them on Little Slate, aud
not on Long branch, which, but for that defect,
would fit the description in the entry better than
any otlhtr, and the other opposite Roe's run, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2.35

-ot opposite Little Slate. T he objection to 1826.
Roe's run, and Mile creek, is, that the buffaloTaylor'sDevisee
road cannot be considered as crossing at the
months of either of them.owing.
Since, then, no plabe is shown which'fits precisely the description of the entry, we must inquire whether that description is so nearly satisfied by appearances at the mouth of Little Slate,
as to induce the Court to establish the title of
the plaintiff.
The objections which have been stated to
Taylor's entry are certainly not removed by calling in the aid of Meredith's. Passing by the increased strength they derive from the emphatic
words " the buffalo road," and from the absence
of " a large quantity of fallen timber," we will
inquire Whether the appearance of cabins on Little Slate will cure the other defects of description
in the entry. This circumstance was too common in ttat country to be itself an object of notoriety. Cabins were seen on Roe's run and
Mile creek, streams which empty into Slate on
the northeast side, as well -as on Little Slate.
Their absence may exclude Long branch from
the c6mpetition, but cannot decide in favour of
Little Slate, unless other circumstances concur
in its favour.
To the objections already mentioned, others
may be added which appear to us to be insurmountable.
The entry is to begin on Slate creek, where it
is crossed by a buffhlo road at the mouth of a
branch emptying into the creek on the northeast

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'r-y'''

side.

Twelve or fifteen buffalo roads cross the

-creek, and five, or six, or more streams, empty
into it on its northeast side. The creek is se-

Taylor's De-*

visee

Owing.

venty or eighty miles in length. In what part of
it is the subsequent locater to look for this road
and this branch ? It is not alleged that either of
them possessed any notoriety which could conduct the person in search of them to any particular part of the creek. Can he be required to
search from its mouth to its source? At which
is he to commence ? If at neither, but at the
mesne point between them, is he to look Vp or
down the creek? If he should accidentally
strike the creek at the mouth of Little Slate, he
finds a creek instead.of a branch, and a path instead of a road. The place does not suit the
description in the entry. Some of the witnesses
say, that no other place suits it as well. Were
this admitted to be true, how is he to know it until
he examines the whole extent of the.creek ? This
would be, undoubtedly, if we regard the decisions
in Kentucky, to imapose an unreasonable burden
on subsequent locaters, one which the law could
not intend to impose on them.
We think, that the entry under which the plaintiff laims cannot be sustained, and that there
was no error in dismissing his bill.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

