OF THE UNITED STATES.

1826.
Itting
V.

FRA D A D CONCEALMENT IN CONTRACTS.

PRACTICE.]

Bank
The
the U. S

SOLOMON ETTING, Plaintiffin Error,
V.

The

PRESIDENT,

DIRECTORS

AND

COMPANY OF

THE BANK OF THE UNIrED STATES,

Defend-

ants in Error.
Athough a' Judge may refuise to declare the law to the jury on a hypothetical question not warranred by the testimony in the cause,
yet, if he proceeds to state the law, and states it erroneously, his
opinion may be revised in the Court above; and if it can have had
any influence on the jury, their verdict will be set aside.
Although it is the province of the Court to construe written instruments, yet, where the effect of such instruments depends, not merely
on the construction and meaning of the instrument, but upon collateral facts inpais, and extrinsic circumstances, the inferences of
fact to be drawn from them are to be left to thejury.
Where the Court is equally divided in opinion upon a wrt of error,
the judgment of the Court below is to be affirmed.
Quore, What concealment, or suppression of material facts, in a
contract, where both parties have not equal access to the means of
information, will avoid the contract ?

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This was an action of assumpsit brought in
the Court below by the defindants in error,
against the plaintiff in error, Ettino, as the endorser of the prolmissoty uote of James W.
Al'Cullough, under ii,&: following circumstances.
In the year 1819, the president of the Branch
Bank, established at Baltimore, his partner in
trade, M'Cullougli, the cashier of the branch,
and Williams, one of the d.rectorr of tne parent

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. bank, had contracted a debt to the bank to the
Y 'amount of 3,497,700 dollars. The directors at
Etting
thv.
Philadelphia, in consequence of some
information
theBank.. wich they had received respecting it, passthe U. S. 'ihc

ed a resolution, on the 19th of February, 1819,
calculated to draw forth a complete statement of
the case, with all its circumstances. This resolution brought the papers it required, and, also,
brought the president and cashier to Philadelphia, who attended for the purpose of making
verbal explanations. These were received, and
the case was referred, on the 16th of March, to
a committee, whose report was made on tl e 30th
of the said month. It appeared by this report,
that the securities offered for the debt consisted
of 20,848 shares of the stock of the bank, of
26,550 shares previously pledged for very large
sums in London, Liverpool, New-York, and
Bostop, the amount of which was not stated, and
the personal liability of the debtors themselves.
The report stated, fIAs the result of many conferences, and -a good deal of deliberation," an
offer on the part of the debtors to give additional secnrity for 900,000 dollars, payable in five
years by annual instalments. A part of the proposed arrangement was, that the shares previously
pledged in London, and elsewhere, should be
liberated from the' claim cif the bank, and that
the separate liability of each for 300,000 dollars,
should be received, instead of the joint liability
of all for 900,000 dollars. This offer, with some
modifications, was -accepted by the banL A
part of the security offered by M'Cullough, were

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tAxeen, merchants of Baltimore, who were to

1826.

bec6me bound for 12,500 dollars each. The "t'i'Etting
V.
committee recommended the acceptance of these T~he Bank

terms, and also recommended, that the sufficien6y of the security offered by Williams, and
M 'Cullough, including the sixteen sureties proposed by M'Cullough, should be referred to the
members of the board residing in Baltimore.
This course was adopted by the bank, and the
committee ef members residing in Baltimore reported on the whole subject. Of the sixteen
names proposed for their consideration, three
were withdrawn, and three were objected to.
Among those who were 'accepted was Etting,
the plaintiff in error. The negotiations, investigations, and arrangements, for the comple.tion of
the business, were some time in progress. Propositions were made for changes of the securities, and, on the 10th of May, the president of
the bank addressed a letter to the committee in
Baltimore, urging them to bring it to an immediate, close. On the 14th of May, the committee,
at Baltimore reported the documents which had
been executed in pursuance of previous arrangements made with the debtors, a report of which
was made by the committee. at Philadelphia, on
the lUth of the same month, and, on the 18th,
M'Cullough was removed from the .office-of
cashier, which he had held from the first establishment of the bank. It was admitted, that he
was a young man worth nothing, who had a family, and whose salary as cashier was 4,000 dollars.

of

the U. S.

CASES IN THL SUPREME COURT

When the n te endorsed by Etting, the plaintiff in error, fl11 due, he refused to pay it;" on
v. 0 which it was protested for non-payment, and this

1826.

The Bank of

wA

the ti. s. suit was brought by the bank.

At the trial in

the Court below, the whole matter was given in
evidence, and the Court was moved to instruct
the jury on the law which would arise on the
facts of the case, and the inferences which the
jury might draw from those facts. The counsel
for the plaintiffs moved the Court to instruct the
jury, that if they should be of opinion, from the
evidence, that the defendant, Etting, without any
communication with the plaintiffs, but on the application of M'Cullough only, agreed to become
his endorser, under the arrangement made between him and the plaintiffs, although they
should be satisfied, from the evidence offered by
the defendant, that the said"M'Cullough deceived
the said Etting; that it was known to the bank
before, or pending the negotiation, that the debt
from M'Cullough, or the greater part thereof, had
grown out of his unauthorized and fraudulent
appropriation of their funds to his own use,
which knowledge the bank did not promulgate,
though they contemplated his removal as soon as
the securities should be given, in conformity with
the arrangement which had been made; that the
defendant endorsed the note in ignorance of any
fraud on the bank, or of any abuse of his office
of cashier, or of any probability of his removal
from the said office; that, had the defendant
known these circumstances, he would not have
endorsed the said note:; fnd that tik: bank fore

OF rHE UNITED STATES.

bore to promulgate either the information they

1826.

possessed, or their intentio"i to remove the said Etting
M'Cullough, under the ;m "ession, th-t the dis- TheE.B3ank of
closure would increase tb - difficI7,lty of thE said the U.S.
M'Cullough in procuring sect-ity, if not render
'

it impossible for him !o procure it ; yet,. if they
shall also be of opinion. that the defendant,
without making any inquiries of the plaintiffs
on the subject of such information and intention, or holding any communication with them
on the subject of his intended endorsement,
did, of his own accord, on the application of the
said HI'Cullough, and for the purpose of giving
effect to the said arrangement, endorse the said
note on which this action is brought, that there
was nothing in the evidence so given by the defendant, to affect the plaintiff's right of recovery
in this action. That, in order to vitiate the said
note and endorsement in law, and to bar the
plaintiff's right of recovery thereon, on the
ground of a fraudulent mnisrepresentation, or
fraudulent concealment of circumstances known
to them, and unknown to the defendant, it was
incumbent on the defendant to show that he applied to the plaintiffs for information, or held some
communicatior with them for the purpose of receiving such information, and that on such application or communication, the plaintiffs either
misrepresented or concealed such circumstances;
and that, in the absence of such proof, there was
nothing irt the facts so given in evidence by the
defendant, to affect the riaht of recovery in the
tetion.

"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'which
Etting

v.

The Court gave the *instruction as asked, to
an exception was taken.

-The coune. for the defendant then moved the

The Bank ofCourt
the U. S.

for instructions, that if the jury should

draw from the evidence-certain inferences v.hich
were stated, the plaintiffs were not eptitled to recover. These inferences were, that the bank
was fully informed in March, 1819, of the fraudulent- conduct of M'Cullo-agh, the extent of his
misapplication of their funds, and of his insolvency; that on receiving this information, they
became satisfied of his unfitness to continue in
office, and determined to remove him. That,
however, they continued him in office until the
18th of May, carefully concealing the circumstances, and their determination, for the purpose
of obtaining security of.the debt due to them
from the said M'Cullough, one of which so contemplated securities was the note in question.
That the defendant was, to the knowledge of the
plaintiffs, ignorant of M'Cullough's breach of
duty, and of the determination to remove him,
and endorsed the note by reason of that ignorance.
The Court refused to give this instruction, unless the jury should be further of opinion, -that
the defendant was led into this state of 'ignorance in consequence of inquiries made by him
of the plaintiffs, or of some previous communication between them and.him.
On the farther application of the. counsel for
the defendant, praying the Court to instruct the
jury, that on the statement and evidence contain-

OF" THE UNITED STATES.

ed in the bills of exceptions, if the jury believed 1826.
the same, the plaintiffs were not entitled to re- Etting
cover; the Court refused to give the instruction
v. of
-1 The Bank
asked, and directed the jury, that on the evidence the U.S.
aforesaid the plaintiffs were entitled to recover.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs in the
Court below, and the cause was brought by writ
of error to this Court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Webster and Mfarch 91h.
Mr. Tafney, for the plaintiff in error, and by the and 10th.
Attorney General and Mr. Emmett, for the defendants in error. The discussion took a wide
range upon the doctrine of misrepresentation and
concealment in contracts ; but as that point was
not determined by the Court, it has not been
thought necessary to report any thing more than
a concise summary of the arguments of counsel.
The following points were made for the plaintiff in error, upon the instructions given and refused by the Court below.
1. That the concealment of the facts"and circumstances above mentioned, or the concealment
of any one of them, whereby the plaintiff in error
was induced to enter into the contract in question, was a fraud upon him, and vitiated the contract.
2. That if the mere omission to communicate
the said facts and circumstances would not be a
fraud, yet, the act of the defendants in error, of
continuing M'Cullough in office, in order to give
VOL. XT.

9

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. him credit, and thereby to procure the security in
"' " question, by which means the plaintiff inerror
Etting
Thv.
was deceived, and induced to endorse
the said
tihe u. S. note, was a fraud upon him, and vitiated the contract.
3. That the continuance of M'Cullough in the
office of cashier, from the 16t6 of March, 1819,
(when his misconduct in. office came to the
knowledge of the president and directors of the
bank, until the 18th of May following, when he
was dismissed, was a violation of the duty of the
president and directors to the government of the
United States, and to the public, and, therefore,
vitiated any contract obtained by means of such
continuance in office.
Upon the first point, it was argued, that the
concealment of material circumstances, known
to one party, and unknown to the other, vitiates
the contract. ° In the opinion given by the Court
below, the principle was admitted, but with this
qualification, that it must be on inquiryor communication,forthe puroe oJ injormation. In this
view of the subject, the only question would be,
whether the rule is subject to this limitation, i. e. of
inquiry or communication for the purpose of information. But an exception to the rule was supposed to exist, and it might be said, that a party
is not bound to communicate circumstances ex-

"

a 1 Com.' Contr. 88.

1 WV. Bl. Rep. 465.

1 Fonbi. Eq.

379. note (h.) Doug. 1.
Hill v. Gray,' S tarkie's N. P. Rep.
434. Verplanck on Contracts,passin. 8 Mass. Rep. 408.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

trinsic to the contract, and that the circumstances 1826.
concealed were extrinsic. If this proposition " Etting
v.
were true, although there had been inquiry and
The Bank of
communication, yet the facts themselves being the U. S.
of such a character that they need not to have
been disclosed, that alone created the exception
to the rule. But, it was insisted, the exception
ought to be confined to those facts which are
equally open to both parties. The ground up6n
which Etting undertook for M'Cullough's performance, was his confidence in his supposed integrity, and in his resources and credit derived
from his connexion with the bank. No case
could be found, which states, that inquiry is necessary to create the obligation to disclose material facts, which are not equally within the knowledge of both parties. The fraud consists in
dealing ivith the pariy in ignmrance, and leaving
him so. It is not necessary that the other paity
should have created the false impression, or intended to have created it. It is sufficient that he
knows it, and takes advantage of it.b Undue
concealment consists in the suppression of a material fact, not in the knowledge of both parties,
and not of a nature to be equally known to both
parties, in a case where confidence *s reposed
that the fact does not exist. In Laidlaw v. Ora Laidlaw v. Organ, 2 Wfheat. Rep. 183.
b Stuartv. Wilkins, DougL 18. Pideock v. Bishop, 3 Barnw.
Gresw. 605. Smith v. Bank of Scotland, I Dow. Parl. Rep.
C
272. 1 Brod. &Bing7h. 289. Jackson v. Buchaire, 3 Term Rep.
551.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

gan, the intelligence was of a nature to be

' Etting

equally known to both parties, and it was not a

V.
The Bank

fact respecting which confidence is generally reof

the U.

S. posed that it will be disclosed.

On the second puint, it was argued, that here
was an act done in order to give a false credit,
and it did give false credit. It was a positive
deceit by acts, though not by words. It was
asked, whether a party might lawfully deceive in
one wdy, and not in the other ? The law is more
consistent with common justice, and gays you
must do nothing to deceive.a It was a case of
industrious concealment.'
By continuing the
cashier in office, the defendants in error, give
bim a fictitious credit which they knew did not
belong to him. It was analogous to the ordinary
case of the fraudulent misrepresentation of the
credit of another., It had been said there was
no inquiry. Why was there none? Because,
the very continuance of the officer in office, was
evidence that they thought him honest. It
might, perhaps, be contended, that nothing was
positively said or done by the bank calculated to
mislead the surety. But silence, or an omission
to act, may, in many cases, as effectually deceive
the party, as the most explicit declaration, or the
most positive acts. Continuing the cashier in
office was equivalent to a suggestio falsi.d
a 2 Wheat.,Rep. 295. 1 Dow. Parl.Rep. 294, 295. 2 Term
Rep. 587.
b Sugd. Vend. 226,227. and the cases there collected.

c Paisley v. Freeman, 3 Term Rep. 51.
d In the case of Smith v. Bank of Scotland, (1 Dow. Pan.
Rep. 294..' Lord ELDON spake of another case which had come

OF THE UNIT'D STATES.

On the third point, the peculiar character of 1826.
the bank was insisted on, as an instrument of the Etting
government, not created for its own profit merev.
The Bank of
ly, but as a means to aid the financial operations theU. S.
of the government " Both the public and the
governnent were deceived and injured by the
misplaced confidence of the bank in their cashier.
It was their duty to have removed him the instant
his default was discovered. It is contrary to the
policy of the law to enforce a contract obtained
by a breach of duty to the public.. The bank
may be considered as a public officer, and is
bound by the same obligations, and owes the
same duties, as any other public officer. But,
would it be pretended, that a public officer could
keep an unworthy agent or deputy in office, for
before him. (Maltby's case.) " A clerk to the Fishmonger's
Company had incurred a considerable debt. The deficit had been
increasing from year to year, and was at length carried beyond
what the company were likely torecover. They demanded additional security, which he procured. The case had come before
him only upon motion, but he had thought a good deal upon it,
and the light in which it appeared to him was this: If he knew
himself to be cheated by an agent, and, concealing that fact, applied for security, in such a manner, aid under such circumstances,
as held him out to others as one whom he considered asta trustworthy person, and any one acting under the impression that the
agent was so considered by his employer, had become bound for
him ; it appeared to him, that he could not conscientiously hold
that security. He was, then, of opinion, that the Fishmonger's
Company could not hold their security. He did not know what
had become of the case afterwards, but, he believed, that his opinion was submitted to, and that no further proceedings were .had.
He had since reconsidered the matter, and still retained his former
opinion, and would act upon it judicially, if occasion offered."
a M'Cullough v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. Rep. 411. 422.

(.ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

the mere purpose of securing a debt due to him

Etting
Thv.

On the part of the defendants in error,
it was
stated, that the rqle is accurately laid down by
Mr. Fonblanque,as to what circumstances a contracting party is bound to disclose : " If a man,
by the suppression of a truth which he Was bound
to communicate, or by the wilful suggestion of a
falsehood, be the cause of prejudice to another,

Th, Bank of

the U. S.

self ?

who had a right to a full and coi rect representa-

tion of thejact, it is certainly agreeable to the
dictates of a good conscience, that his claim
should be postponed to that of the person whose
confidence was induced by his representation.,a
Under certain modifications, and with certain
exceptions, the party is bound to communicate all
circumstances intrinsic in the contract itself; all

those circuipstances which enter into the contract as ir)gredients, and form constituent parts

of it. But, with regard to circumstances extrinsic to the contract, though forming inducements
to enter into it, however powerfully he may believe and know they are operating with the opposite party, he is at liberty to keep silence. Intrinsic circumstances are such, for example, as
regard the quality and price of the article, which
must, of necessity, enter into the inducements.
Extrinsic circumstances are those considerations
which form no component part of the cbntract
itself, but which may form inducements with the
party to enter into it. The distinction is founded
a 3 Fonbl. &. I 4

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in reason, and is necessary to the business of 1826.
life., With regard to the whole class of extrin- Erring
V.
sic circumstances, though, if the party undertake
The Bank of
to disclose them, he must take 'eae to state the the U. S.
truth, yet, he may maintain the most obstinate
silence respecting them, and the contract will
still be valid.
As to the objection, that the rule must be received with the qualification, that the facts are
equally. accessible to both parties, it was said,
that if by this was meant, that they must be
equally accessible to both by the 'use of ordinary
diligence, it could not be considered as well
founded.' And, if it meant nothing more than
that it was physically accessible, where The party
pushes his inquiries in all possible directions, and
takes sufficient time to make the discovery, then
it was inapplicable to any practical purpose in
the business of life. The qualificationhad been
borrowed from the law with regard to, intrinsic
circumstances, to which it was properly applied,
and transferred to extrinsic circumstances, to
which it was wholly inapplicable. Assuming,
that, with regard to extrinsic circumstances, a
party may conceal them without impairing the
contract, there was not a feature in any one of
the instructions in this case which was not justifled by the operation of that principle.. The
keeping the cashier in office was doing nothing.
a

2 Wheat. Rep. 185. note c.and the passages from Pbthier

there cited.
b Fox v. Mackreth, 2 Bro. Ch. Cav. 420.

VASES IN TilE SUPREMIE' COURT

1826.
a

Etting

It was a mere forbearance to act. All the cases
referred to, of industrious concealment, admitted
of two answers: (1.) That the concealment

The Bank of

theU. S. was of circumstances intrinsic to the contract.
(2.) That, in all the cases, no acts were done
to alter the antecedent state of things for the
purpose of concealment. As to the case of
Smith v. The Bank of Scotland," which had
been relied upon as analogous to the present,
it would be found that there was a positive misrepresentation on the part of the bank,
they alleging that further securitywas wanted on
account of an increae of business, when, in
fact, there was a decrease. Another case from
the same book might have been cited, where an
attempt was made to set aside a security bond,
alleged to have been obtained by unfounded representations of circumstances generally, without any direct reference to the bond, and the
Court having, according to the forms of the
Scottish law, appointed the sureties to say whether they would refer to the respondent's oath,
"that he did elicit that bond ?" and the sureties
having admitted, that "they never meant to say
that there was any degree of personal influence
with either of them to eicit the bond of relief,"
the Court of Session pronounced in favour of the
bond, which was affirmed by the House of Lords
on appeal.' So, here, it might be asked, whether the plaintiffs below had done any thing to
a 1 Dow. Pad!. Rep. 272.
h Webster v. Chrystie, 1 Dow. Parl 'Rep.247.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

elicit the note. All that was alleged was, that 1826.
they had not communicated their intention "
Etting
of removing the cashier, when they were not.jThe Bank
V. of
asked respecting their intention, and when it the U. S.
was equally lawful for them to retain or to remove him. The effort on the other side is to
induce the Court to establish a new rule of law,
which, however analogous to other principles
merely applisable to the contract of insurance,
was admitted, even by the ingenious and learned
author of the treatise which had been referred
to, not to form a part of the jurisprudence of
this country.a
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the March Wk-.
opinion of the Court.
If this case depended on the deservedly high
character of the individuals who were engaged
on the part of the bank in the transactions in
which the suit originated; if elevation above the,
possibility of suspicion that they could have meditated any thing believed by themselves to be
legally or morally wrong, could decide it, this
cause would not have required the great efforts
which have been bestowed upon it. The names
which appear on this record can never be connected with actual fraud; nor would any difficulty
be found in protecting them from the imputation, were it possible that it could be made. But
judicial inquiries are into the rights of the para Verplanch on Contracts.
V

.M.

in

(UASES IN THE SUPREME COUR T

1826. ties; and, although high and honourable charac" Etting
"" " ter has, and ought to have, grdat influence in
,'. weighing testimony in which that character is in

The Bank of

the .

s. any manner involved; yet, when the inferences
from that testimony are drawn by others, and a
Court is required to pronounce the law arising
upon them, character is excluded from the view
of the Judge, and legal principles alone can -be
acknowledged as his guide.
At the trial several points of law were raised
by both parties, on which opinions were given, to
which exceptions were taken, and the correctness
of those opinions constitutes the single inquiry
in this Court. [Here the learned Chief Justice
stated the case, as it is stated above.]
As preliminary to the inquiry, whether the law
arising on the facts, and on the inferences assumed in the bills of exceptions contained in the
record, was correctly stated by the Court, a point
has been made at the bar, which must be disposed
of. It his been contended, that a Court is not
bound to answer abstract or hypothetical questions of law, not growing out of the testimony in
the cause, which may be propounded at the bar;
and, to apply this principle, it has been also contended, that the testimony contained in the record,
and referred to in the bills of exceptions, contains
nothing from which the jury could possibly draw
those inferences of fact upon which the Court
was asked to declare the law. That the points
made in the bill of exceptions constitute a distinct and totally different case from that made by
the evidenze.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

That a Judge cannot be required. to declare 1826
the lua, on hypothetical questions which do not
.tting
belong to the cause on trial, has been frequently
V,
asserted in this Court, and is, w3 believe, inc'on- the U. S.
trovortible.a The Court may, at any time, rei'use
to .give an opinion on such a point; and i'f the
party propounding the question is dissatisfied
with it, he may execpt to the refusal, which exception will avail him, if he shows that the question was warranted by the tdstimony, and that
the opinion he asked ought to have been given.
Birt, if the Judge proceeds to state the law, and
states it erroneously, his opinion ought to be re'vised ; and if it can have had atly influence on
the jury, their verdict ought to be set aside.
It cannot, however, we think, be correctly affirmed with respect to the case now under consideration, that the points stated in the bills of exception have no relation to the -testimony to
which those bills refer. That testimony consists
of various communications and reports, made to
the bank, of their own transactions, and of the
admissions of parties. It has been said, that
this testimony is all in writing, and is to be construed by the Court; and from thibX proposition is
deduced the corollary, that the jury was not at
liberty to draw inferences from it.
Were the fact as alleged, and were it true,
that the testimony is all in writing, the consequence drawn from it cannot be admitted. Conceding it to be the province of the Court to construe any particular paper which was offered in
a

Hamilton v. Ru-Ael. 1 rranch'sRep. 309. 31.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Etting

evidence, the report of the 30th of March for
Sexample, and to declare the meaning of every
and of the whole instrument, yet this
rpor contains a great variety of extrinsic cir-

V. ofrot
sentence,
The Bank
the U.

cumstances, suggests measures of deep interest,
was followed by numerous successive acts which
took place in the country, and which do not derive all their influence on the cause from the construction of the particular papers in which they

are communicated, but, in a considerable degree,
from their connexion with each other, from the
motives in which they originate, and from the
effects they were calculated to produce, and did
produce, on others. These subjects are peculiarly proper for the consideration of a jury. If
the testimony be examined, it will, we -think, appear, that the -counsel for the plaintiffs has not
asked the Court to give its opinion on any inferences of fact which it was not at least possible
for the jury to draw from the evidence. The
knowledge of the bank is not questioned. The
ignorance of Etting might be inferred from the
absence of all testimony proving h'l .knowledge
that any fraud had been practised by MWCullough.
The original resolution of the bank to. remove
M'Cullough might be inferred from their knowledge of his unfitness for the office, and from the
fact that they did remove him the instant the securities were obtained which they expected from him.
The same facts might justify the .inference respecting the motives which induced the bank to
retain him in office until those securities were

procured
We are far from sayingthatthese inferenceswere

OF THE UNITED STATES.

all of them such as the jury ought to have drawn. 1826.
"'tin
It is not difficult to perceive, that the bank might -ank.o
in
unexceptionable
equally
motives
on
have acted
i The Bank of
•
morals and in law. The jury might very well the U. S.
have believed that the bank thought the 26,550
shares of stock. were not worth more than the
sums for which they were pledged, or, at any
rate, were not a safe security, and might, there-'
fore, think it advisable to relinquish that pledge,
if other security could be substituted in its place.
Others might estimate that stock more highly
than they did, and might estimate it rightly.
Friends, therefore, acting on their own judgment

of the value of this stock, might be found willing
to endorse the paper of Mr. M'Cullough on receiving it as a pledge. The motive, too, for retaiing Mr. M'Cullough in office might be to induce him to do the bank all the justice in his
power, not to induce others to endorse his notes.
The whole subject was before the jury, and they
might have drawn from the testimony either
these inferences, or those which are stated in the
bills of exceptions. The counsel for the plaintiffs, believing the law to be in their favour even
upon that view of the testimony which is taken
in the exceptions, and fearing that the jury,
should they take that view, might find for the
defendant, chose to refer the law to the Court.
Whether*his fears respecting the jury were well
or ill founded, this cause must now be decided on
the correctness of the opinion given by the Circuit Court.
In the very- elaborate arguments which hbo-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'cited

Brooks
I.
Marbury.

been made at the bar, several cases have been
which have been attentively considered.
No attempt will be made to analyze them, or to
decide on their application to the case before us,
because the Judges are divided. respecting it.
Consequently, the principles of law which have
been argued cannot be settled; but the judgment
is affirmed, the Court being divided in opinion
upon it.
Judgment affirmed.

[AsSIG.NMENT ?OR THE BENEFIT OF CREDITORS.

EVIDENCE.J

BROOKS V. MARBURY.
A debtor has a right to prefer one creditor to another in payment; and
it is no objection to the validity of an assignment for that purpose,
that it was made by the grantor, and received by thq grantee, as
trustee, in the hope and expectation, and with a view of preventing
prosecution for a felony connected with his transactions with his
creditors; if the preferred creditors have done nothing to excite
that hope, and the assignment was made witout their knowledge
or concurrence at the time of its execution, and without a know*.
ledge of the motives which influenced the assignor, or was not afterwards assented to by them under some engagement express or
implied to suppress or forbear the prosecution.
An assignment for the benefit of preferred creditors is valid, although
their assent is not given at the time of its execution, if they subsequently assent in terms, or by actually receiving the benefit of it.
It is no objection to such an assignment, that it defeats all other cre"ditors of their legal remedies, even if amounting to a majority in
number and value, unles Tlere be some express provision of a
bankrupt law toinvalidatetle deed.

