OF THE UNITED STATES.

103
1826.
Harding
V.

[CHANCERY.

STEPHEN HARDING

FRADVX.ZEWT DErD.]

Randy.

and Others, Appellants,

Randy
Harding.

V.

AsA HANDY and CALEB WHEATON, Respondents.
AsA HANDY and CALEB WHEATON, Appellants,
V.
STEPHEN HARDING

and Others, Respondents.

There must be sufficient equity apparent on the face of the bill to
warrant the Court in granting the relief prayed; and the material
facts on which the plaintiff relies must be so distinctly alleged as
to put them in issue.
A Court of equity has juisdiction of a suit brought by heirs at law
to set aside a conveyance of lands obtained from their ancestor by
undue influence, he being so infirm, in body and mind, from old
age, and other circumstances, as to be liable to imposition, although
his weakness does not amount to insanity.
The same jurisdiction may be exercised where one of the heirs at law
has, with the consent of the others, taken such a deed, upon an
agreement to consider it as a trust for the maintenance of the
grantor, and, after his death, for the benefit of his heirs, and the
grantee refuses to perform the trust.
Under what circumstances such a conveyance may be allowed to
stand as security for actual advances and charges, and et aside for
all other purposes.
In such a case, not depending on the absolute insanity of the grantor at
the time Of executing the conveyance, the Court may determine
the question of capacity without directing.an issue.
The verdict of a jury as to the sanity of the grantor at the time of
executing such a conveyance, would not be conclusive, the Court
being competent to determine for itself the degree of weakness, or
of imposition, which will induce it to set aside the instrument.
Exceptions to the report of a Master are to be regarded by the Court
only so far as they are supported by the special statements of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

104
1826.
Harding
V.
Handy.

Master, or by a distinct reference to the particular portions of testzon which the party excepting relies. The Court due, not
investigate the items of an ace, tint, nor review the whole mass of
testimony taken before the 1%laster.
Rules of practice in accounting before a Master.

Handy

In a suit in equity brought by heirs at law to set aside a conveyance
obtained from their ancestor by fraud and imposition, a final decree

Smaony

V.

Harding.

for the sale of the property cannot he pronounced, until all the heirs
are brought before the Court as parties, if they are within the jurisdiction.
If all the heirs cannot be brought before the Court, the undivided interest of those who are made parties may be sold.

THESE were cross appeals from the decrees
of the Circuit Court of Rhode Island.
The bill filed in the Court below by the appellants, Harding, and Nancy his wife, and Sterling
Wheaton, alleged, that they, with four others not
made parties to the suit, together with Caleb
Wheaton, one of the defendants, were entitled,
as heirs at law of Comfort Wheaton, deceased,
to the real property mentioned in the bill, and situate in the State of Rhode Island. That Comfort
W., about the year 1802, began to exhibit symptoms indicating a loss of intellect, and soon became, from various causes mentioned in the bill,
incompetent to the management of his estate,
and died in 1810. That, under these circumstances, the defendant. Caleb W., (his son,) and
who acted as well for himself, as in behalf of the
plaintiffs, and the defendant ttandy, (the son-inlaw of Comfort W., entered into an agreement
to endeavour to take his estate out of his hand s,
and to preserve it for the benefit of his heirs at
law. That it was agreed that Comfort W. should
be prevailed on to convey his real property to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

105

Handy, for a nominal consideration, who should 1826.
tbrthwith execute an. instrument of writing, de- Hadn
Harding
V
in
trust;
same
the
and
held
took
he
elaring that
Handy.
the
of
support
decent
the
first, to provide for
grantor, during his life; and, after a full remune- handy
re- Hardin.
rati6n for his expenses and trouble in that
the
for
estate
the
of
residue
spect, to hold the
benefit of the heirs at law. That, on the 9th of
May, 1805, Handy did procure such conveyance,
for the nominal consideration of 2,178 dollars,
from Comfort W., and entered upon, possessed,
and enjoyed, the property in question ; but that
he refused to execute any declaration of trust as
he had agreed, but held the property, claiming it
as his own. The bill then alleged, that the defendant, Caleb W., after the death of his father,
Comfort W., acting on behalf, and for the benefit
of, the heirs, procured letters of administration
of the personal estate of Comfort W. to be issued by the proper Court, and caused such further proceedings to be had, as that the administrator exposed to sale the real property before
mentioned, which had been conveyed to Handy,
and that Caleb W. became the purchaser thereof,
for the general benefit of the heirs. That various suits at law had resulted from these transactions, (and-, among others, an -jectment brought
by the defendant, Handy, against the defendant,
Caleb W.,) by which the value of the property
had been much deteriorated. The bill ihen
prayed for an account respecting the,propert3 ;
that a decree might be rendered, exonerating it
VO,. X[.

14

CASES IN THE SUPREI.IE COURT

1826.
"
Harding

v.

Handy.

friom the deeds to the defendant, Handy, after
satisfying his just claims, and ordering one fifth
part of the real estate to be, sot off to the plaiptiff, Nancy H., and one fifth to the plaintiff, Ster-

ling.W. ; and for general relief.
v* g that
The
answerW.
of was
the incapable
defendant,ofHandy,
denied
Comfort
conveying
his

Handy

property when the deeds of the 9th of May,
1805, were executed; and insisted that his intellect was perfectly sound at that time. It also
denied, that he, the defendant, purchased as a
trustee, and averred, tfiat he was a purchaser for
a valuable and full considuration. The answer
of the other defendant, Caleb W., admitted the allegations of the bill, and submitted to any decree the Court might think equitable.
A great mass of testimony taken in the
Court below, appeared in the record, which
was very contradictory, as to the capacity of
Comfort W. to make the conveyance in question.
The Circuit Court, by its interlocutory decree,
directed that the deeds of the 9th of May, 1805,
should be set aside, as having been obtained -by
false impressions made on a mind enfeebled by
old age, and various other causes; and that an
account of the receipts and disbursements of
the defendant, Handy, should be taken, and that
lie should be credited for all advances made, and
charges incurred, for the maintenance of Comfort W. during his lifetime, and for repairs and
improvements made on the real estate. Excep'ions were filed by both parties to the report.

OF, THE UNITED STATES.

107

which was confirmed by the Court below. The 1826.
final decree declared, that the real estates con- Harding
veyed to the defendant, Randy, should stand
V.
Handy.
the
of
balance.
the
of
amount
the
charged with
account due to him; that the same should be Handy
sold, and the proceeds brought into Court; that Harding.
the said balance should be paid to him, deducting
his proportion of the charges, &c. and the residue, deducting their proportions, &c. should be
paid over, and distributed among the heirs at
law of Comfort W. If there be any such heirs,
not made parties, they to be at liberty to come
in under the decree, and receive their share., paying their proportions of costs and expenses,
otherwise to be excluded. That each party before the Court should pay his own costs, excepting the fees of the officers of the Court, which
should be a charge on the property, and borne
by the parties according to their respective proportions of interest in the proceeds of the sale.
From this decree both parties appealed.
Mr. Wheaton, for the original plaintiffs, made
the following points:
1. That the decree 6ught to be reversed, so
far as it declared, that the real property should
stand charged with the advances made by the defendant, Handy.
2. That it ought, in all Qther respects, to be
affirmed.
On the. first point, he contended, that the deeds
having been obtained by the iinposition of the
grantee on the grantor, 'the property ought not

Feb.,.ld.

108

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Harding

Vn
Handy.
Handy
V.

Harding.

to stand charged with the expenses incurred by
the former. That, even supposing him to have
held as a trustee during the lifetime of the plaintiff's ancestor; after that period he ceased to hold
in that capacity, and became a maltefidei possessor, who was not entitled to be allowed for improvements made on the land.,
On the second point, he argued, (1.) as to the
objection made in the Court below, of the defect
of juiisdiction in that Court ; that the words of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20. s. 16. providing
that suits in equity should not'be sustained in the
Courts of the Union, " in any case where plain,
adequate, and complete remedy, can be had at
law," were not intended to abridge the equity jurisdiction of those Courts ; that it had been frequently determined, that the proceedings in those
Courts were to be according to the English system ,of equity, both as to principles, practice,
and jurisdiction;.' that fraud and trust were familiar subjects of cognizance in the Court of
Chancery; and that equity often interfered to
redress fraud, even after a-verdict and judgment
-at.law.c That this.was not d case analogous to
that which had been cited in the proceedings
below, where the only ground of equitable interference was a discovery sought to establish the
q Oreen v. Biddle, 8 #heat. Rep. 77-83. 2 Ves. sen. Rep.
516. 2 Ves. Rep. 281. Belt's Supplement, 345. 396. 1 Bro.
Ch. Rep. 420.
b Robinsos) v. Campbeil, 3 Wheat. Rep. 221. Unitbd States
.e. Howland, 4 Wheat. Rep. 108.
2 P. Wn. 425. 2 Vern. Rep. 146. 2 Ves. sen. Rep. 62&

109

OF THE UNITED STATES.

fraud, and the plaintiff having failed in the disat law,
ooverv, and having a complete remedy
Uiy.
should not be allowed to proceed in equity
2. Another objection was, that th.is was an attempt to establish a trust by parol evidence, contrary to the statute of frauds. The Court below
did not consider it necessary to determine this
point, because, at all events, there wa§ a resulting trust for the heirs, (after allowing for advances, &c.) which, even in England, might, unquestionably, be established by parol. But a
comparison of the English statute of frauds,
29 Charles II. c. 3. with the provisions of the
local statute of Rhode Island on the same subject, would show, that the latter did not extend
to trusts, and, therefore there could be no question of the admissibility of parol evidence in this
case.
3. It was' a case of imposition practised by a
son-in-law upon his father-in-law, an old man,
inflrm in body and mind, morally and physically
ncapable of managing his own affairs, and of
esisting the influence and importunities of the
)ther party, standing in that intimate relation. It
was analogous to other cases of fraudulent and
bard bargains made with expectant heirs, and
other persons stanli,)g in peculiar relations, rendering them liable to imposition. The great
ieading case on the general analogy, was that
of Chesterfield v. Jansen,' which was not cited
a Clarke v. Russell, 7 Cranch'sRep. 89.
?2 Yet. ?en. Rep. 157.

1826.
Harding

.

Handy.

Handy
Harding.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'V'

Harding

as a direct authority, but as illustrating the general principle.

Lord Hardwicke there lays

Randy.

down the rule on which the Court of Chancery
proceeds, and classifies the cases in which it will

Handy

interfere.

v.

These are, 1. Actual fraud. 2. Such

Haring. as is apparent, from the nature of the bargain

itself, as being fragrantly unequal.* 3. A kind

of fraud which may be presumed from the circumstances and condition of the parties contracting. 4. Which may be inferred from the nature
and circumstances of the transaction, as being
an imposition and deceit on other persons not
parties to the fraudulent agreement. 5. Fraud,
infecting catching bargains with heirs, -eversioners, expectants, &c. There are to be found
in the, books a great variety of applications of
these principles. Thus, in Clarkson v. Hanway,s the suit was brought by an heir at law to
set aside a conveyance by his ancestor, who is
described as a " weak man," 72 years old, who
had conveyed his estate for a small annuity. The
conveyance was set aside on those circumstances
alone, by the Master of the Rolls, -and decree
confirmed, on'appeal, by Lord iviacclesfield. In
Bates v. Graves,' the bill was filed by a son, to
set apide a conveyance, (which was confirmed by a
will,) by his father, to a son-in-law, under circumstances of fraud, and undue practices, upon the
weakness of the grantor. Lord Thurlow and
Lord Rosslyn concurred in holding, these circumstances to be sufficient to annul the conveyU2

P. WM. 203.

b 2 Ves.jr. Rep. 287.

OF TH!E UNITED STATES.

ane, though the party was not a lunatic. In a
still more recent case,a Lord Eldon relieved
against a bargain with .n expectant heir, where
there was no fraud or imposition, upon the
ground of inadequacy of consideration, where
thei e was an inequality of condition in the parties. Mere inadequacy of consideration was
held insufficient, but, coupled with the other circumstance, was deemed a sufficient ground ta
annul the contract. In Huguenin v. Baseley,b a
settlement by a widow, upon a clergynian and
his family, was set aside, as having been obtained by undue influence, ana abused confidence in
the party; as the agent of the grantor's affairs,
upon the principle of public p*licy and utility,
applicable to the analogous cases of guardian
and ward, attorney and client, &c. It was there
earnestly contended, that the law of England
does "not prevent a prodigal disposition by
a person, of sound mind." But the argument
was overruled by Lord Eldon; and the words of
Sir S. Romilly, arguendo, in that case, are remarkably pertinent to the present: " Though
no direct authority is produced, your lordship,
dispensing justice by the same rules as your predecessors, upon such a subject, not confined
within the narrow limits of precedent, will, as a
,new relation appears,- look into the principles
thai govern the human heart, and decide accorda 16 Ves. Rep. 512.

See also Oliver v. Court, 3 Price'sEx-

cheq. Rep. 12r.

b 14 Ves..Rep.. 273. Griffiths v. Robins, 3 Aladd. Rep. 191.

1826.
'
Harding
V.
Handy.
Handy,
Harding.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUItT

1826.

ingly." The same principles and authorities had
applied, by a Court of justice of our own.
Harding
v
country, to a case almost the same with the preHandy. sent in all its material circumstances.a
They
Handy are applied in every system of jurisprudence
V.
Sarding. having a due regard to the protection of the
weak from' the artifices of those who have the
means of unduly influencing or controlling their
conduct. Thus, in the countries governed by
the Roman law, the provisions of positive law
prohibiting donations intervivos,between persons
staiding in certain peculiar relations of mutual
confidence and dependence, are extended by
equity to other relations of a similar character,
and falling within the reason of the prohibition.'
The Court below seems to have considered, that
it might have been justified, on these principles,
in declaring the deeds in question utterly void,
though, in framing its decree, it thoughf proper
to take a more mitigated view of the defendant's
conduct.
Sbeen

Mr. Coxe, (with whom was Mr. Webster,) for
the defendant, Handy, argued, (1.) That there
was a defect of jurisdiction in the Court below,
proceeding as a Court of equity. A complete
and adequate remedy at law existed. If the
deeds were invalid on the ground of fraud and
imposition, that question might be tried in an
a Whelan v. Whelan,3 Cowen's Rep. 53To
b Pothier,Traitg de Donations, s. I.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

action at law.

It had been so tried and deter-

mined.

113

1826.
Harding

2. It appeared, on the face of the bill itselfi v.
that there were other children of Comfort W. Handy.
who are his heirs at law, but who had not been Handy
joined in the present suit. They were equally naiding.
interested with the other plainiiffs, and should,
therefore, have been join'd. Their interests are
also affected by the decree. It is not too late to
take advantage of this objection."
3. The bill contained multifarious matters
which ought not to be joined. Eachofthe defendants claimed to have the legal estate in him, in
opposition to each other. There was no privity
between them as to their respective interests;
and before the plaintiffs could have any interest
in vacating the deeds of the defendant, Handy,
the deed of the defendant, Caleb W., must be
removed. The establishment of their right
against one defendant was a prerequisite to their
calling upon the other to answer.
4. The main object of the bill, and that attained by the decree, was to enforce specifically a
parol agreement, alleged to have been made between the two defendants, denied by the defendant, Handy, and not proved by any competent
testimony. The contract proved is wholly different from that alleged. Such a contract as is
a Smith v. M'l-er, 9 Whe,7t. Rep. 532.

b C ,p. Eq. P1. 33.

Pr. Reg. 299.

Bart. E!. 31. n. 1.

Hinde's Ch. 2. 1 Vern. Rep. 10. 5 Wheat. Rep. 313. 9 Whea..
Rep. 842.
i
VoL.XI

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
v
Harding

V.

Handy.

alleged, and now attempted to be enforced, is
deficient in mutuahty.a It, also, virtually admits
the sanity and competency of the grantor, Comfort W., which is now made the ground for set-

ting aside the deeds.
5. If, however, he was in the state of mind in
Harding.
which the bill represents him, the plaintiffs, by
their agent, participated in the fraud, and, therefore, have no right to call upon a Court of equity
to interfere, to relieve them from the web in which
they have entangled themselves."
6. The plaintiffs are barred by lapse of time.
7. The decree sanctions an attempt to establish a contract concerning lands, and a trust in
real estate, by parol evidence. The proof of a
trust lies on the party who alleges it.c In this
case, the conveyances are absolute on the face
of them, and the evidence of a trust is wholly
aliunde. To warrant the Court in decreeing
the execution of a parol declaration of trust, the
evidence should be plain and unambiguous.- The
taking the conveyance was not in part performance. The. act of part performance- must be
such as the party would not have done with any
.other view than in execution of the alleged agreement.e This secret trust, and the allegation of
part performance, are both denied by the anHandy
.V.

a Newl. Contr. 152.
b 14 Ves.-Rep. 288.

c Prevost v. Gratz, 1 Peters. Rep. C. C. s64. S. C. 6 Wheat.
Rep. 494.
d Wharton's Dig. 580.
e 4 Ves.jr. Rep. 108.

OF TIlE UNITED STATES.

3wer, avd this settles the question.a The secret 1826.
trust cailnot be proved by parol testimony, espe- Harding
v.
cially where it is made with a stranger to the esHandy.
consideration.
tate without
8. The bill does not distinctly allege the in- Handy
competency of Comfort W., and the imposition Harding.
said to have been practised on him, so as to put
these facts in issue. The decree must conform
to the allegata. Some substantial ground must
be stated. Old .age alone is not sufficient.0
9. If these facts had been ever so distinctly put
in issue, they have not been proved. Where
fraud is alleged, it must be fully proved, and will
not be presumed I The presumption of law is
in favour of a party executing an instrument.e
The question is confined to the state of mind at.
the time of executing the instrument! Two
witnesses'deposing sane menti, are to be credited before a hundred proving insanity.5 The
law will not measure a man's understanding, and
a partial diminution of intellect is not .sufficient
to invalidate the deeds; nor is there any such
thing as an equitable incapacity, where there is a
a 6 res. Rep. 39.
b 2 Johns. Ch. 405. 7 Ci'anch's Rep. 176. 11 Mass. Rep.
342. 13 Mass. Rep. 443. 4 East's Rep. 577. n. 1 -Eden's
Rep. 515.

1 Cox's Rep. 15.

c 1 Ves.jr. 19,20. 4 Desauss.518.
d Cas. temp. Talb. 116. I Mad. ch. 208.
e 5 Johns. ftqf. 158. 3 Bac. Abr. 527. 540.
f 13 Ves. Rep. 88. 8 Mass. Rep. 371.
q Co. Litt. 246. b. note (1.)

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

1826.

legal capacity.a

Fraud of this description is

WfrWnequally cognizable at law, and in equity; and the
;Harding

v.

uandy.
Handy
V.
Harding '

Court of Chancery will not set aside a will of
lands on that ground, without directing an isSUC. 5

10. The decree is inconsistent both with the

allegations in the bill, and with itself. It is a
bill with a double aspect. It charges incompetency in the grantor, and prays that the estate
may be exonerated; it also charges a trust, and
prays an account, and general relief. The decree declares that the grantor was incompetent,
and his conveyance invalid, anti yet does not exonerate the estate from them. A deed cannot
be set aside partially on the ground of fraud. If
set aside at all, it must be in toto.c The decree
proceeds on the ground of imposition, and grants
a relief which.could only apply to the pretended
trust, which necessarily implies capacity in the
grantor. It does not pass on the conveyance
from the administrator of Comfort W., to the
defendant, Caleb W. So long as the legal estate remains in him under that deed, the right of
the plaintiffs is a nonentity.
11. The Master's report is erroneous on several grounds, and ought to have been set aside.
(1.) Because, in taking the account, he refused
to receive the testimony of the defendant, Handy,
when it was competent and credible. (2.) The
a 1 Madd. Ch. 223, 224.
6 3 Bac. Abr. 321. 2 Atk. Rep. 424.
2 Ves.jr. 287. 1 Madd. Ch. 206.
4 2 Ves.jr. Rtp. 408.
8 Ak. Rep. 281.

3 Atk. Rep. 17.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

117

Master required evidence of the consideration of 1826.
a promissory note, when the signature was sUffi- IHarding
=
ciently proved.a (3.) He held, also, that where
r.
a party charges himself with a certain sum, and Handy.
at the same time discharges himself, it shall be Handy
evidence against him, but not for him.,

The Harding.

other exceptions to the Master's report were also
minutely di-4cussed ; but it is not thought necessary to state then, as they are enumerated, and
fully examined, in the judgment of this Court.
12. The final decree is erroneous in several
particulars. (I.) In directing a sale of the property under the circumstances. (2.) Because it
purports to bind, and does affect the interest
of those who are not parties. (3.) Because it
wholly omits to provide for the defendant, Handy,
as tenant by the curtesy (4.) Because it does
not, unless by implication, determine all the matters in issue, and which ought to have been decided.
Mr. Wheaton, for the plaintiff below, in reply,
as to the want of proper parties, argued, that, as
Uy the local law, one coparcener could maintain
an action at law for his share of. the real estate,
the same rule of proceeding would b, -idopted in
equity. Under the peculiar circumstances of
the case, the Court below had considered the
defendant, Caleb W., as legal owner under the
administration sale, sufficiently representing all
a Mandeville v. Welch, 5 Wheat. Rep. 282.
b Ambl. Rep. 589. 1 Ves. jr.Rep. 546.

GASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Harding

V.
Handy.,

the parties who could claim any beneficial inte-

and he (as in eff ct a plaintiff) submitted

Srest;

to any decree the Court could make in favour of

the plaintiffs.

Besides, the nature of tile jurist

diction of the Courts of the Union, which was
H"aing. derived from the character of the parties as citizens. of-different States, wQuld prevent their insisting upon parties who were not absolutely necessary to the determination of the mrits of the
cause as between the parti 's before the Court.,
But, in this case, the Court might apply the analogous rule, as to next of kin suing for distributive shares of personal property, one of whom
may sue, and the rest may come in under the deHandy

cree.b

Upon the merits, he insisted, that the question
as to the capacity of the grantor was not a question of absolute insanity. All the cases show,
that the Court will interfere wherever a peculiar
relation has been abused to influence or impose
upon a person of weak mind. A commission of
lunacy is not, by the modern practice of the
Court of Chancery, confined to cases of strict
insanity, but is applied to cases of imbecility of
mind, to the extent if rncapac' tq, from any cause,
as disease, age, or habitwd irtoxication.c This

principle is fully developed by Lord Erskine in
Ex parte Craminer.d It was not, therefore, nea
b
c
d

Russell v. Clark, 7 Cra,ch' Rep. 98.
Coop. Eq. 39, 4".
Ridgway v. Darwin, 8 Ves: Rep. 65.
12 Fes. Rep. 445.

119

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cessary to show that the grantor was absolutely

1826.

non com os nentis in a strict legal sense, still

Harding

-

v.
less was it necessary to prove that he was incaHandy.
exewere
deeds
the
moment
pable at the precise
Handy
cuted.
V.
As to the defects in the pleadings, and the H.ding.
other infornialities in the proceedings, it was
said that the Court would look with an indulgent
eye upon the pleadings and practice in equity
causes in those States, where, no State Court of
Chancery existing, the forms of proceeding were
less familiar to practitioners. But, it was insisted, that the bill contained a sufficient allegation of the incapacity of Comfort W. to execute
the deeds in question, to put that fact.distinctly
in issue, and it had been met responsively by the
answer of the defendant, Handy, explicitly denying it.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the March sLr.
opinion of the Court, and, after stating the case,
proceeded as follows:
The counsel for Asa Handy contend, that the
bill seeks to set up a parol trust, which is denied
in the answer, and that the de'ree is founded on
a supposed incompetency (if Comfort Wheaton

to convey his property. The decree, therefore,
Decreeto acis not supported by the allegations of the bill.
the
coding
a
They, also, contend, that the decree is not sus- aciiga
well asproba-

Ia. Factofthe
tained by the probfs in the cause.
That the bill alleges the conveyances of the oncfor~et.c
9th of May to have been received for the benefit to putit
of the family, is unquestionable; but this is not0i%.dictly in,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

120

1826.
'v%.

Havding

v.

Hsdy

incompatible with the incompetency of Comfort
Wheaton to execute them. Deeds may be ohlained from a weak man for the purpose of preserving his estate for himself and family, and of

protecting him from the impositions to which he
Hardvg. might be exposed; and there is nothing to restrain one of the heirs, who may think himself
aggrieved, from bringing the whole case before a
Court of equity. If, indeed, it were true in fact,
that the bill does not allege this incompetency
so as to put it in issue, the objection would be
conclusive; for, it is well settled, that the decree
must conform to the allegations of the parties.
But, we think, this bill is not justly exposed to
this objection. It states the general correct conduct of C. W. during the life of his wife; that,
soon after her decease, he was visited by a paralytic stroke, which was followed by a total change
in his conduct. He was addicted to intoxication,
and to many vicious habits, in the course of
which, fears were excited in his flmily that he
would waste all his property, or convey it to his
profligate companions. They consulted together, and with their friends; and the first proposition was, to apply to the Court for a guardian to
manage his affairs, according to the law of Rhode
Island in such cases. It was, however, finally
agreed, that Asa Handy should obtain deeds for
his property, and hold it for the use of C. W.
during his life, and of his heirs after his death.
The bill then proceeds to state, that the said Asa
Handy, knowing the premises, did induce the
said Comfort, " he being in the state and condiu dt

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion of body and mind aforesaid," for the nominal
consideration of 2,178 dollars, to make the conveyances in the bill mentioned.

Although a more direct and positive allegation
that C. W. was incapable of transacting business, would have been more satisfactory than
the detail of circumstances from which the conclusion is drawn, yet,f we think, that the'averment 'of his incompetency is sufficiently explicit
to make it a question in the cause. The defendant has met this charge, and we cannot
doubt that his answer is sufficiently responsive
to the bill, to give him all the benefit which the
rules of equity allow to an answer in such circumstances.

1826.
HIg
Harding

V.
Handy
V.
Harding.

We proceed, then, to look into the proofs in Proofsofthe
the cause, and to inquire whether the testirpony oteno

establishes the incompetency of C. W. -whenthese
deeds were executed.
We have examined with attention the immense
mass of contradictory evidence which the record
contains. A number of persons, and, among
others, the witnesses to the deeds, express the
opinion that he was capable of managing his affairs, and of disposing of his property. This
evidence, however, is met by such a mass of opposing testimony as can scarcely be resisted.
Among the numerous witnesses who testify to
the imbecility, of his mind, are many who had,
been long and intimate acquaintances. All his
physicians concur in stating, in strong and decided terms, the weakness of his mind, as well as
VoL.,XI.

16

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Harding

T.

Handy.
Handy
Harding.

his body, which they ascribe chiefly to the character of his disease.

One of them, Doctor

Barrows, attended him about the time these deeds
were executed. He says, " with regard to the
state of his mind, at all times when I saw him
within the said period, (from the 1st of March
to the 25th of November, 1809,) 1 can say, that
he appeared to me wholly incapacitated to transact any money business, or to have the care jf
any concerns whatever. It is my opinion, that
the decay of his mental faculties was such as to
induce that state of fatuity which would unfit hini
for all the purposes relative to the affairs of life,
except obeying the various calls of nature." Some
of the witnesses add to their opinion of his imbecility, some circumstances on which the opinion is founded, which cannot fail to make a
deep impression on the mind. Ziba Olney says,
that he was acquainted with C. W. for the last
five years of his life, who, for the last fifteen
months of them, resided in his family. "That
during the whole of .these times he appeared to
be childish, and incapable of transacting any business. The reasons of this opinion are, that he
would frequently repeat the same questions, and
would, several times in the same day, ask what
day of the week it was. At short intervals, he
would talk rationally, and then would. break off
from conversation to singing, and from that to
crying. That he would frequently go out in the
night and day, naked except his shirt. That he
would frequently break out in profane language,
and, at other times, preach."
Several other

OF THE UNITED STATES.

123

witnesses describe the situation and conduct of 1826.
this afflicted old gentleman, in a manner to add Harding
O
great weight to their opinion, tlmt his faculties
V.
Handy.
witnesses
those
of
even
Many
prostrated.
were
who depose to his competency, declare, that the Handy
public opinion and language of his neighbour- HarVifg.
hood was, that his mind was deplorably impaired ;. and the conduct and declarations of his family, including the defendant, Asa Handy himself, show a settled conviction that C. W. was
incapable of managing his affairs.
There is evidence of the consultations in which
Handy participated, previous to the deeds of the
9th of May, for putting the old gentleman and
his estate under guardianship ; and there is, also,
evidence of similar Consultation respecting the
propriety of procuring a conveyance of his property, in order to- save it for himself and his family. This may niot be admissible as proof of
a trust ; but it is strong evidence of a conviction,
that the person from whom the deed was to be
obtained was unfit for the management of his
own affairs. Among other testimony to this
poini, Abner Daggett deposes, that Asa Handy
asked him if he had a notion of buying his father Wheaton's lot-? The witness answered,
that he had had some conversation with Wheaton
about it; upon which Handy said, Wheaton was
no more capable of selling his estate than a
child. The witness was deterred from purchasing, though he wished to acquire the lot, by the
fear of subsequent controversy.
The great and sudden revolution in the whole

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
',ng
Harding

V.

Handy.
Handy
V.
Harding.

conduct of C. W., immediately after the first paralytic stroke, viewed in connexinn with his advanced age, is a strong circumstance in corroboration of the opinion that his mind was diseased.
A sober, prudent, reflecting, and moral man,
between seventy and eighty years of age, mingles with profligate people, to whom he devotes
himself, and becomes suddenly intemperate, immoral, and childishly whimsical and indiscreet,
so that his nearest friends think it necessary to
put it out of his power to ruin himself.
The terms on which this old gentleman stood
with his family, are not entirely unworthy of consideration. But two of his children, Caleb, and
Mary, the wife of the defendant Asa, lived near
him. From causes, some of which may be discerned in the record, he was on ill terms with
Caleb. One of the witnesses deposes, that he
said, on one occasion, "You know; AsaJI made
you.the deeds to spite Caleb." There is other
testimony to the same effect. The necessary
consequence of this quarrel with Caleb, was, to
subject him, in an increased degree, to the influence of Mary Handy and her husband, and exposes the deeds conveying all his property to
them, to an increased degree of suspicion.
The inadequacy of the consideration, as stated
in the bonds referred to in the answer, furnishes
an additional argument against these deeds. It
was chiefly the support. of C. W. for the residue
of his life. This proved to be five years, which
was a longer time than his age, and state of
health, at the time of the transaction, rendered

OF THE UNITED STATES.

probable ; but which was certainly not a full con- 1826.
sideration for the property.
Harding
These various circumstances add so much
V.
weight to the opinions of those who depose to the Handy.
incompetence of C. W., that the mind cannot Handy
withhold its assent from that conclusion. An Harding.
issue, indeed, might have been directed ; but we

An issue unne-

do not think it a case in which this course ought cessary, and if
it had been dito have been pursued. The degree of weakness, rected, the
verdict would
or of imposition, which ought to induce a Courtnot have been
of Chancery to set aside a conveyance, is proper cnclusiv.
for the consideration of the Court itself; and
there seems to be no reason for the intervention
of a jury, unless the case be one in which the
Court would be satisfied with the verdict, however
it might be found. A verdict affirming the capacity of C. W. to execute these deeds on the 9th
of May, 1805, could not, we think, have been
satisfactory to the Court; and it was, consequently, not necessary to refer the question of competency to a jury.
Deeds set
If these deeds were obtained by the exercise aside,
on acof undue influence over a man whose mind hadcount
the
undue ofinfluis
once
exercised
it
his
actions,
guide
of
ceased to be the safe
upontlue-rantagainst conscience for him who has obtainedo..
them to derive any advantage' from them. It is
the peculiar province of a Court of conscience, to
set them aside. That a Court of equity will interpose in such a case, is among its best settled
principles. The cases cited in the argument,
which we will not repeat, place this beyond the
possibility of question. It was, therefore, proper to set aside the deeds, and to direct the de-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

fendant, Handy, to account for the money he had

1ardin
Harding received under them.

V.

Handy.

But, although that defendant ought not to be
permitted to benefit himself by his own impro-

per act, it is not reasonable that he should be
Harding. burthened with the debts of C. W., and the exThese are proper
Estate to stand penses of his maintenance.
charged with charges on the estate itself. So are inprovements
advancesinade
bythe grantee. and repairs which eiihanced the rents, and the
value of the estate. As a defendant in equity,
Asa Handy has certainly a right to retain them,
and to receive credit for them in the account
which was directed by the Circuit Court.
There is, wve think, no error in the manner in
which the account was directed to be taken.
The parties were heard before the Master,
who, after a very laborious and comprehensive
examination of their accounts, has made a voluminous report, to which both parties have excepted.
The Court
It maybe observed, generally, that it is not the
does not investigate the province of a Court to investigate items of an
items of an account,nur
re-account. The report of the-master is received
view the Master's asepo,tot,as true, when no exception is taken -'and the exexcept
Handy
V.

such mtterceptions are to be regarded so far only as they
as are specifd
'
p
,are
exe%he
the and
tions,
in

supported by the special statements of the
parts of theMaster, or by evidence, which ought to be brought
evidence par-before the Court by a reference to the particular
ticularly refer-

red to.

testimony on which the exceptot" relies.

Were

it otherwise, were the Court to look into the immense mass of testimony laid before the Commissioner, the reference to him would be of little

OF THE UNITED STATES.

avail.

Slich testimony, indeed, need not be re-

1826.

ported farther than it is relied on to support, ex- Harin
Harding

plain, or oppose, a p-nrticular exception.
I.
Handy.
that
is,
Handy
by
made
exception
first
1. The
only the sum of 5,448 dollars 26 cents, were al- Handy
lowed him by the Commissioner, instead his
of
'r.
amount of
101,167 dollars, 60 cents, the
claim. This is a general exception, which comprehends, it is supposed, the particular alleged
errors enumerated in the subsequent exceptions.
2. The second exception is, that the Master
did not admit his whole account on his own
oath.
Rule onofexceppracThe conduct observed by the Master on this rice
point, is thus specially stated by himself. "I uons
made
to
the Master's
admitted said Asa to make 'oath to all charges,repat.
whether for money, specific articles, or services,
which, from the circumstances of the parties, or
the nature of the charge itself, could not, in my
opinion, be proved by vouchers, or other legal
evidence."
of
This rule, adopted by the Master, is, in our Testimony
the party, how
opinion, one to which Handy could make no Justfar
admissible
S . in accounting
objection

There can be no propriety in admit-,before
a Mat "

ting the party as a witness to support items ine
an account, which, from their character, admit
of full proof. Of this description are the items
which constitute his third exception. It is the
demand of testimony to support his charges for
repairs and improvements. These repairs and
improvements are susceptible of complete proof;
and, as there could be no difficulty.in procuring

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
' Harding
V.
Handy.
Handy
Harding.

it, the Commissioner did. right in requiring it.
The fourth ex'eption is to the rejection of his oath
to discharge himself from rents, which; as he alleged, he had not received.
The Commissioner has made considerable deductions from the total amount of rent, if calculated for the whole time, but has rejected the
oath of Handy, because he admitted that he had
kept legers in which his receipts of rents were
regularly entered, which were still in his possession, but which he refused to produce. The decision of the Master on this point was so obviously right, that it need only be stated to be approved.
5. The fifth exception is, that the Master has
not allowed for repairs and improvements according to the measurement of Nathan Parks,
which was on oath, but according to the estimate
of John Newman, whi-ch was not founded on actual measurement, but made principally by the
eye.
The Master reports, that, " in addition to the
evidence produced by the parties, I appointed
John Newman, an experienced and skilful measurer of carpenters' work, to go on the premises,
together with the said IIandy and myself, and to
measure afid estimate all such repairs, and alterations, and buildings, as said Handy, being under
oath, should point out as being made and executed by him." The estimate of the said Newman, with his deposition, are referred to, and annexed to the report.
Newman deposes, that his estimate is founded

OF THE UNITED STATES.

on actual measurement, except parts of the roof
of one building, which he took from the measurement of Nathan Parks, and of another, in which
he was guided by the statement made by Handy
himself of-the length of the rafters, which accorded with his own estimate.
and proved,
That a measurement thus made
was entitled to more respect than the ex parte
measurement of Parks, cannot be doubted.
6. An exception is also taken to the report, because it disallows the charge made by Handy of
a note, which he says was proved.
This exception, it is presumed, was not taken
before the Master, as he does not notice it, and
it is too vague to be regarded. Neither the note,
nor the ground on which payment is claimed,
nor its amount, nor the reasons of its rejection,
are stated; nor is there any reference to the evid&nce in support of it. Nothing is stated to induce a suspicion, that the disallowance of it was
improper. Yet the Court, from its solicitude to
discover whatever the record might contain on
this subject, has looked through the report. Nothing is said, so far as we can perceive, respecting a note, except in the affidavit of Ziba Olney,
who states, that Asa Handy became the endorser
of some, note for Appleby, which was settled in
some way in the board of C. W., on which note,
he believes, Handy was sued. If this is the note
to which the exception alludes, the claim is absorbed in the allowance made him for the board
of C. W. But, whether it be the note or not.
VoL. Xr.

17

129
1826.
Harding

v.

Handy.
Handy

v.
Harding.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
w3arding
V.
Handy.

Handy

V.

the exception is totally unsupported, and cannot
sustained.
7. A seventh exception is, a charge of money
alleged to have been received of' Doctor Bowen,

Sbe

although he discharged himself therefrom on
oath, in payments of different sums under twenty dollars
each.
This is the application to a particular item
of the principle contained in the second excep-"
tion, and is disposed of with that exception.
8, 9. The eighth exception is a repetition of
the objection to the manner in which Handy is
charged with repairs, the Master's report respecting which has been already stated to be satisfactory; and the ninth is a repetition of the claim
to sustain his accounts on his own oath.
10. The tenth exception is to the requisition
made on him to produce his leger, in which entries had been made of the rents he had received ; a requisition to which he objects, because
it contained transactions anterior to the entries
of rent.
The validity of this objection cannot be admitted. The leger mighii be inspected in the
presence of the defendant, Handy, and there
could be no propriety in commencing the examination with prior transactions.
11. The eleventh exception respects the
calculation of interest. The Commissioner had
made what are denominated rests in the account,
instead- of calculating interest on each minute
item. This mode of calculating receipts and
expenditures, in accounts consisting of numeroum

OF THE UNITED STATES.

small items, is recommended by convenience, 1826.
and has been generally adopted. It seems to Harding
have been properly adopted in this case.
v.
12. The twelfth and-last exception, is a repe- Handy.
tition of the often repeated, and .as often reject- Handy
ed claim, to be admitted to swear to his whole Havrding.
account.
The original plaintiffs except (1.' to the allowance made to the said Asa Handy for buildings
which were erected on the lot after the death of
C. W., which are said to be no advantage to it.
But there is no proof, and no reason to believe, that these buildings were not a real advantage to the property, and did not increase the
rent and the value. This exception, therefore.
was properly overruled.
2. The second exception is to the admission
of the said Handy's oath, in cases in which he
refused to produce his books, and the books of
C.W.
No example of this admission is given, nor is
there any proof in support of the exception.
The rule by which the Master was governed has
been already stated and approved.
3. The third exception is a repetition of the
objection to the admission of items in the account
of Handy, on his own oath; and is answered by a
reference to that part of the report which relates to this subject, and which has been already
stated.
The fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh exceptions, are totally unsupported by evidence, and,
oconsequently, cannot be sustained.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Handy.

We think the Circuit Court did right in conthe report of the Commissioner.
Upon the return of this report, the Circuit
Court directed the estates to be sold, and the

Handy

money due to the said Asa Handy to be paid, in

Hi

the first instance, and that one fifth of rue resi-

Sfirming

Flarding

V.

due should be paid to each of the plaintiffs, that
being the distributive share of each under the
law of Rhode Island. The decree proceeds to
authorize .the heirs who were not made parties
to come in and receive their distributive shares,
on paying their proportion of the costs and
charges of suit.
The objection to this decree is, that the children of Mary Handy, and the children of Daniel
Wheaton, are not parties to the suit.
0
It has been supposed, that it is not necessary,

All tle lheis
bemd pin

Rhode Island, to make all the heirs parties,

the jurisdiction of the

l~so ht~
because, by the laws of that State, parceners

Court.

can sue separately for their respective portions

of the estate of their ancestor. This law would,
undoubtedly, be regarded; in a suit brought on
the common law side of the Circuit Court. Its
influence on a suit in equity is not so certain.
But, however this may be, we are satisfied that a
sale ought not to have*been ordvred, unless all
the heirs had been before the Court as plaintiffs
or defendants. Although the legal estate may
be in Caleb Wheaton under the deed made by
the administrator, yet he acknowledges himself,
to be a trustee for the heirs, having purchased for
their benefit. They have, therefore, a vested
equitable interest in the property, of which they

OF THE UNITED STATES.

133

ought not to be deprived without being heard. 1826.
They may choose to come to a partition, and to Harding
redeem their shares by paying their proportion
v.
Handy.
charged.
is
estate
the
which
with
of the money
The bill does not state, that the heirs who are Handy
V.
not made parties are unwilling to become so, or Harding.
cannot be made defendants by the service of process. We think, then, tiat there is error in pi-bceeding to decree a sale, without bringing all
those heirs before the Court who can be brought
before it ; and for this error, the decree must be
reversed, and the cause sent back, with liberty
to the plaintiffs o amend their bill by making
proper parties. If all the heirs cannot be brought
before the Court, the undivided interest of those
who do appear, is to be sold, and the lien of Asa
Handy is to remain on the part or parts unsold,
to secure the payment of so much of the money
due to him as those parts may be justly chargeable with.
These causes came on to be heard,
&c. on consideration whereof, this Court is of
opinion, that there is no error in the interlocutory decree, nor in so much of the final decree as
approves and confirms the report made by the
Master; but there is error in so much thereof as
directs a sale of the premises therein mentioned,
all the heirs who are shown to be interested in
the said premises not being made parties, and it
not being shown or alleged that they could not
be made parties. So much of the decree, therefore, as directed a sale of the premises in the
DECREE.

CASES TN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Cassell

V.
Carroll.

bill mentioned, is REVERSI'D and ANNUl.LED, and
the residue thereof is AFMIRMED ; O1Id the cause
is remanded to the said Circuit Court, with liberty to the plaintiffs to make all proper parties,
that the whole may be sold if all the heirs can be
made parties, otherwise the shares of such as are
made parties. Each party to pay his own costs
in this Court.

[FEUDAL AND CONSTITUTrONAL
HUSBAND,

HENRY

LAW.

AsSIGNMENT

1Y THL

OF A CHOSE IN ACTION, -BELONOING TO THE WIFE.]

CASSELL,

Adminis/rator of

LOUISA

BROWNING,
V.
CHARLES CARROLL of

Carrollton.

The title and claim of CharlesLord Baltimore, his heirs and representativesta the quit rents reserved by the Proprietary of the late Province (now State) of Maryland, was extinguished by the agreement between the heirs, devisees, and persona. representatives of
the said Lord Baltimore, and of his son and heir, Frederick Lord
Baltimore, made in 1780, and confirmed by an act of the Bitish
Parliament in 1781.
R1seem, that a bonafide assignment, for a valuable consideration,
made by a husband, of a debt actnmIly and piesently due to his
wife, devestsrin equity, the title of the wife.
But, however this may be in general, the agreement made in 1780,
including the quit-rents then aetmally due (if at all) to Louia
Browning, the daughter of Charles Lord Baltimore, and assigning
them to Henry Harford, the devisea of Frederick Lord Baltimore,
having been entered into in Ergland, by the husband of Louisa
Browning and net committee, (she being a luatie,) and the consideration having actually gone benficiaily for her use; and the

