OF THE UNITED STATES.

the vessel by assuming the government and navi- 1826.
gation of her, or by transferring
their obedience "-*The U. S.
from the lawful commander to some other perv.
Tappan.

son.

Certificate accordingly.

iCONSTRUCTION oF STATUTE.]

The

UNITED STATES

againstTAPPAN, and Others.

The words " true value," in the I1th section of the duty act of the
20th of April, 1818, c. 961. mean the actual cost of the goods to
the importer at the place from which they were imported, and not
the current 7r-ket value of the goods at such place.
If the Collector, in fact, suspects that the goods are invoiced belowr
the current market value thereof, at the place fron) which they
were imported, but does not suspect that they were invoiced below
the true and actual cost thereof to the importer, the Collector his
no right to direct an appraisement.
But, whenever, in the opinion of the Collector, there is just ground
to suspect that the invoice does not truly state the actual cost of the
goods, he may direct the appraisement, and is not bound to disclose the grounds upon which he forms that opinion, whether it is
formed from his knowledge or information of the current market
price of the goods, or other circumstances affording grounds to
suspect the invoice to be fraudulent.

THIS cause was argued by the Attorney Ge- Afare7th
wneral and Mr. Blake, for the plaintiffs, and by
Mr. Webster, for the defendant.
Mr. Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion
of the Court.

Marchli.St .

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

'

1826.
This is an action of debt upon a duty bonid,
,,
'
under
the act of the 20th of April, 1818. Upon
Vhe v.
U. S.
the trial of'the cause in the Circuit Court
of
Tappan, Massachtsetts, the following questions arose:

1. Whether the words " true value," in the
11th section of the act of the 20th of April,
1818, meant the current market value of such
goods at the place from which they were imported, or the true and actual cost thereof to the
importer at such place.
2. Whether, if the Collector did, in fact, suspect that the goods were invoiced below the current nzarkct value thereof, at the place from
which they were imported, but did not suspect
that they were invoiced below the true and'actual cost thereof to the importer, the Collector
had a right to direct an appraisement.
3. Whether, if, in the opinior of the Collector, there was just ground to suspect that the
goods. were invoiced below the current market
value of the same, at the place from whence
they were imported, then the said Collector had
a right to direct the tame to be appraised in the
manner prescribed in the 11th section of the beforementioned act of Congress.
Upon which questions the Judges of the Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and they are
brought up to this Court for decision.
It seemed to be admitted on the argument at
rhe wor
"truevau "
in the 11th see-the bar, that the answers to these questions would.
lion of the act
of 181 , im-depend in a great measure, if not entirely, upon
more general inquiry with respect to thet bis
hort the same
bas.
aca o mohhas et
t
which the ad valorem rate of duties is to be
fO~i.on

OF THE UNITLD STATES.

estimated; whether upon the actual cost of the 1826.
goods, or the current'marketvalue thereof, at the Thd U. S.
place from which they were imported. That,
V.
prior to the act of 1813, ad valm em duties were Tappan.
to be estimated upon the actual cost of the
goods, cannot admit of a doubt. In one of the
earliest acts of Congress passed on this subject
in the year 1789, (2 L. U. S. 22.) this was assumed as the basis. The act declares, that the
ad valorem rates of duty upon goods, wares, and
merchandise, at the place of importation, shall
be estimated by adding twenty per cent. to the
actual cost thereof, if imported from the Cape of
Good Hope, or from any place beyond the same,
and ten per cent. on the actual cosi thereof, if
imported from any other place or country,,exclusive of charges. In the act passed but a few
days before (2 L. U. S. 5.) after the enumeration of certain articles subject to an ad valorem
duty, it is declared, "that on all other goods,
wares, and merchandise, five per cent. on the value thereof at the time and place of importation,"
shall be laid. The word value, as here used,
cannot br. understood in any other sense than
the words actual cost, in the act prssed only
twenty-seven days after. It would be unreasonable to suppose that, in the former at, market
value was established as the basis, and in the
latter a new rule introduced under tJe terms actual cost, with a view to any change of the basis.
It is more reasonable to suppose, that value and
actual cost, were intended to import the same
meaning. And, in other parts of the ,laws on

422

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

this subject, where these terms are'used in
The U. S. reference to the rule by which the duties are
V. to be estimated, they are to be taken in the
Tappan. same sense, and to be understood
as a varied mode of conveying the same idea. (2 L.
U. S. 22. 3 vol. ed. 185.)
In the act of
1799, the 'same basis, actual cost, is expressly
adopted as the rule by which ad 4,alorem duties
are to be estimated; (3 L. U. S. 193.) and
that such was the rule previous to the act of 1818,
was not denied on the argument, as it certainly
could not be with the least colour of plausibility.
And if this be so, there ought to be a very clear
expression of the legislative will, before, a rule
which had governed the practice on this subject
for nearly thirty years, should be considered as
abolished, and a. new one adopted. And, we
think, the act of 1818, (6 L. U. S. 300.) will not
justify such a conclusion. If any parts of the
act, when separately considered, would seem to
warrant' such a construction, the whole, when
taken together,.admits of no such interpretation,
and would, indeed, be directly at variance with
the fourth section of this act, which, in terms,
adopts the rule first laid dbwn in the act of 1789,
and which has been continued in all the subsequent laws, " that the ad valot em. rates of du,ties, upon goods, wares, and merchandise, shall
be estimated by adding twenty per cent. to the
actualcost thereof, if imported from the -Cape of
Good Hope, or from- any island, port, or place,

beyond the same, and ten per cent. on thC actual
cost thereof, if imported from any other place,"
&c. It has been contended, however, on the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'423

part of the United States, that, by the terms true 1826.
value, as used in several parts of the lct of ,ir'
'
The U. S.
1818, and particularly in the 1 Ith section, it was
V.
intended to substitute the current market lalue' Tappan.
instead of actual cost, as 'the basis upon which
ad valorem duties are to be estimated. The
subject matter of this section is, to provide for
the detection of fraudulent invoices, and fix the
rule by which the duties are to be estimated,
when the invoice price is below the actual cost.
The law requiies (3 L. U. S. 437.) that the
invoices of all goods imported.-into the- United
States, and subject to an ad valorem duty, shall
contain a true statement of the actual cost of
such goods. And no entiy of the, goods can
be made, unless the original invoice is produced,
and oath made that it dontains a just and -true
account of the cost of such goods. (3 L. U.
S. 172.)
And to enforce a compliance with
these injunctions, by putting into the hands-of
the Collectors more efficient means of -detecting all evasions of the law, was one of the principal objects of this 11th section of the act of
1818. It requires the Collector, whenever, in his
opinion, there shall be just grounds to suspect
that goods, subject to an ad valorem duty, have
been invoiced below their true value, at the place
from which they were imported, to have them appraised. This poweris, to act upon a supposed
case of fraud, attempted to be practised on thegoveinment, by ipaking out the invoice bplow
the actual cost. The great object to which the
attention of the Collector is directed, is to ascer-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
'

The U. S.

Y.

Tappan.

tain the cost, that being the basis on which
the duties. are to be estimated. And if the invoice is false, the proper inquiry to detect it is
as to the market value of the goods, and to compare that with the invoice price. And for the
purpose of ascertaining such market value, the
Collector is authorized to appoint appraisers,
who are sworn to report, according to the best of
their knowledge and belief, the true value of
the goods when purchased, at the place from
whence the same were imported. The appraisers have, however, no concern with the actual
cost of the goods. Their duty is confined to
the value thereof, at the place of importation.
And the law has declared what shall be the effect
of a variance between the value so reported, and
the invoice price. A small difference will not
draw after it any penalty. The appraised value
must exceed the invoice price 25 per cent. or
no addition to the ratio of duty is imposed.
The appraised value is of necessity assumed
as the price upon which the duties are to be estimated, where the difference between that and
the invoice price is 25 per cent. In that case,
the invoice is deemed fraudulent, and to be laid
out of view; and, of course, no evidence of the
cost of the goods. And the 12th section expressly declares, that the appraised value, in such
case, shall be considered the true value, upon
which the duty is to be estimated. Or, in other
words, so far as respects the rule by which the
duties are to be ascertained, the true value, as
found by the appraisers, shall be deemed the ac-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

15

tual cost. Where the appraised value shall be 1826.
less than the invoice value, the duty is to be The U. S.
charged on the invoice value, in the same manV.
Tappan.
made.
been
had
appraisement
no
if
as
ner
So, also, in the oath required by the 5th section of this act, true value imports nothing more
nor less than actual cost. Any other constrdction would place it out of the power of any man
to take the oath, where the goods were purchased
at a rate at all differing from the market pride.
Tle law requires the invoice to be made out ac-,
cording to the actual cost, and -this to be sworn
to; and if true value means any thing else than
actual cost, the oath could not be taken. This
is not a separate and distinct oath from that
which is required by the act of 1799, and which
is to accompany the invoice. The act declares
it to be, not an additional oath, but facts in addition to the oath now required by law, which addition is, that " the invoice produced by him exhibits the true valie of such goods, wares, or
merchandise, in their actual state of manufacture, at the place from which the same were imported. " There can be but one invoice and one
oath, and that invoice must be made out according to the actual cost, and ii necessarily follows,
that true value imports the same thing-under a
varied mode of expression. If it was permitted
to make out two invoices of the same goods, one
according to the actual cost, and the other according to the market value, and distinct oaths
annexed to each, it might remdve the difficulty
Vol. XI.

54

426

4ICASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. suggested. But that is not allowable. And no
~statuite ought to receive a construction that will
-he U. S.
The
V. render it nugatory, or which prescribes a rule
Tappan. utterlyimpracticable, without incurring the guilt
of perjury. If, then, the basis upon which ad
valorem duties are to be estimated, has not been
changed by the act" of 1818, from the actual cost
to the market value of the.ggods at'the place of
importation, as we are satisfied it has not, the
answer to the first question certified to this
Court will be, that the words- "true value," in
the 11th section of the act of 1818, import the
same thing as actualcost.
The
other
And this, as was coiceded on the argunent,
questions angered in the will dispose of the other questions, and require
negativ

that they should be answered in the negative so

far as, from-the form in which they are propounded, they will admit of a direct answer.
In explanation, however, of this answer, it is
proper to observe, that the 11th section of the
act to-which the questions are pointed, is intende'd to clothe -the Colleqtor with enlarged powers
to guard against fraudulent invoices. Whenever,
in. his opinion, there- shall be- just grounds to
suspect that the invoice doesriot truly state the
actual. cost of the good:, he may direct an appraisement. .- How, or. by- what means, that opinion is made up, no 'one has authority tQ inquire,
or a right to control. Ordinarily, it will be-found
from hig own knowledge, or the information he
gets from others, of the market price of the
goods, and if that should .differ widely from the
invoice prices, it will afford grounds for suspect-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing theinvoice to be fraudulent.

For, as a ge-

neral course of business, it is to be presumed

that goods are purchased at the common market
price. The authority of the Collector to direct
an appraisement, is regulated, h9wever, entirely
'by his own suspicion that the invoice is untrue,
and does not state the actual cost of the goods
as required by law. Whether this suspicion is
well founded or not, is not matter df inquiry. So
i'ar as respects the authority of the Collector to
direct the appraisement, he is governed altogether 1y his own opinion of the grounds of suspicion. Whether these suspicions were well or
ill founded, and the consequences resulting thqrefrom, will depend upon after inquiry before the
appraisers, and their decision thereupon. But
the Collector cannot be called upon to avow, or
show the grounds upon ,hich his suspicion rests.
The law has vested him with an uncontrolled
discretion on this subject, to be regulated and
governed by his own opinion, of the sufficiency
of the grounds on which h6 suspects the invoice
to be below the true value or actual cost of the
goods.
These answers must, accordingly, be certified
to the Circuit Court, upon the questions submitted to this Court.
This case came on to be heard oi
the certificate of the difference in opinion of the
Judges, &c.
On consideration whereof, this
Court is of opinion, and directs it to be certified
to the said Circuit Court. that the words " true
CERTIFICATE.

427

1826.
The U. S.

v.

Tappath

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. value," in the eleventh section of the act of ConTke U.S. Sgress of the 20th of April, 1818, do mean the
v. I actual cost thereof to the importer at the place
Tappan. from which the same was imported; and that the
second question, upon'which the opinions of the
said Judges were opposed, viz. whether, if the
Collector did, in fact, suspect that the goods
were invoiced below the current market value
thereof, at the place from which they were imported, but did notsuspect that they were invoiced below the true and actual cost thereof to
the importer, the Collector had a right to direct
an appraisement ? be answered in the negative ;
and do also direct it to be certified, that the third
question, on which the opinions of the said
Judges were opposed, viz..whether, if, -in the
opinion of the Collector, there was just ground
to suspect that the goods were invoiced below
the current market value of the same, at the
place from whence they were imported, then
the said Collector had a right to direct the same
to be appraised in the manner prescribed in the
eleventh section of the before mentioned act of
Congress? be likewise answered negatively.

