446

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Carnochan
V.
Christip,

,

[CanA.ty.. AwAR)An

/ARNOCHAN and MITCHEL

against
CHRISTIE and Another.
An award must decide the whole matter submitted to the arbitrators; it must not extend to any matter not comprehended in the
submiss ion; and it must be certain, final, and conclusive of thi
whole matter referred.
Where the arbitrators determined that the plaintiffs should be entitled
to a credit of a certain sun on account of sales of. landI to the
defendant, provided " they shall grant, or cause to be granted, to
the said W. C. (the defendant) a clear, unencmbered, and satisfactory title" to the lands, without limiting any tune within which the
title should bq made: Held, that the award was void, as not beig final'and conclusive.
A Court of Equity either enforces an award as it is made, or sets it
aside if in any respect defectiv6 ; but it is contrary to its practice
to confirm the award so far as it extends, and .to supply omissions
by decree of the Court.Where a bill is filed to set aside an agreemerit or conveyance, the
conveyance cannot be established without a cross bill filed by, the
defendant.

Marchiota This cause was argued by Mr. Webster -and
Mr. Berrien for the appellants,a and by Mr.
a They cited, as to the necessity of a cross bill by the defend.
ants, in order to establish the conveyances, 2 Madd. Ch. 329. 2.
ctk.
133. 1 Ball and Beatty, 217. ,2 Cox 78. As to the
manner in which a Court of equity acts upon an award, either by
confirming it in toto or rejecting it, 1 Bro. Ch. 389. 3 Bro. Chc.
163. 1 V s. Jun. 365." 2 Ves. Jun.22. 4 Bro. Chi. 117. 536.
As to the necessity of the award extending to all the matters of
reference, 7 East's R~ep. 81. As to the uncertainty and inconclusiveness of the award, 7 Term Rep. 6b.

447

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Emmett and Mr. D. B. Ogden f6r the respondents.'

1826.

,ents-11Carnochan
V.
.. Christie.

Mr. Chief Justice

Court.
opinion of the

MARSHALL

delivered the archlt.

,Carnochan & Mitchel, the plaintiffs, were
merchants in Georgia, who had extensive commercial transactiQns with the defendant, William
Christie, a merchant of Liverpool, in the course
of which the former-became indebted to the latter to a large amount. In 1819, Join Carnochan,
one of the firm of C. & M., visitea England, in
the expectation of selling immense tracts of land
he had purchased in Florida, and, during his*re-.
sidence in that country, his partner, Peter Mitchel,
relying, probably, on the sale of lands, continued
to draw heavily on the defendant, W. C., without making correspondent remittances, Carnochan being-unable to sell his lands, and thus to
place funds in the hands of Christie, these'bills
produced great embarrassments, and frequent
communications betweeii the parties, in the
course of. which Carnochan pressed Christie'
most earnestly to proceed with his acceptances,
and promised to *secure him by the pledge of his
Florida lands, and property in .Georgia. At
length, deeds of .these lands,'and other property,
were executed, and the accounts settled between
the parties. An account was stated, and signed
a To show that an award niight be good in part, and void as to
de residue, they cited 5 Iheat. Rep. 394. 3 Dessauss.,11: 14
Johns. Rep. 3G. Kyd oi Awarde, 243. 261. and the cases there
-ollected.

CASES I

THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

by them, showing a balance of 43,293 pounds, six

o
Carnoohan

shillings and four pence sterling, due to Christie,
for which sum Carnochan gave the promissory

V.

note of C. & M., dated
Soon after the execution of these deeds, Carnochan returned to Georgia, and considerable
payments were made. But, the debt still remaining considerable, the agent of Christie
caused the deeds to be recorded, and apprehensions were entertained that he would proceed to
sell the property. In June, 1820, Carnochan &
Mitchel filed their bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Georgia, alleging that the account was unfairly settled, to
the very great injury of the plaintiffs; that it
contains many erroneous charges, and omits to
give credits to which the plaintiffs are entitled,
and that Carnochan was induced to sign it, and
to give the note for the amount, in consequence
of his situation, which placed him in the power
of the defendant. That the deeds also were
executed under duress, and consequent imposition. The bill prays that the account may be
resettled, that the deeds may be cancelled, and
the defendant enjoined from proceeding under
them. The injunction was awarded.
The defendant, Christie, filed his answer, denying all the material allegations of the bill.
Numerous exhibits were filed, and several depositions taken. In December, 1821, the parties
agreed to refer the case to arbiters, and the following submission was entered on the record :

op rHE UNITED STATES.

"Carnochan and Alitchcl
v.
William Christieand William Jenner,

449

1826.
In equity. Carnocha
Carnocha
Christie.

"We agree to the reference. The arbitrators
to determine all matters in controversy as exhibited in the pleadings, with the understanding
that the stated account is not to be opened further than to permit the complainants to establish by proof the errors in the same, as alleged
in their bill and exceptions; the items which compose the alleged error of four thousand pounds,
to be distinctly stated and specified by the complainants within twenty days from this date.
The defendant, William Christie, (if he desire
it,) to have one hundred and twenty days to produce documents or vouchers to answer the said
items, upon giving the complainants notice within ten days after receiving such specification.
The parties to proce d in the arbitration upon
ten days notice after the expiration of -the time
allowed the complainants to exhibit their specification above mentioned. This submission to be
made an order of Court. The arbitrators to
make their award within one hundred and twenty
days, unless prevented by the requirement- of
time by the said William Christie as aforesaid,
from this date, and return the same lo the next
term of this Court; which award, when'so made,
shall be final and conclusive between the parties,
subject to those exceptions which arise "upon
awards, or decisions of arbitrators. Claims to
VOL.XI

57

CASES IN THESUPREME COURT

1826.
Carnochan

v.

Christie.

commissions mutually abandoned, and the -amount
decreed by the arbitrators to be paid in two instalments, at six and twelve riionths from the
date of the decree, and sufficient security for the
fulfilment of the award be given by Carnochan
& Mitchel to William Christie. The arbitrators to have the liower, of examining witnesses
upon oath, and calling for documents which they
may deem necessary; but the said-William Christie shall be excused from producing any such
document, if he will depose that the same is not
in his possession oh this side of the Atlantic.
The arbitrator under this submission, chosen and
selected by the complainants, is William Gaston,
Esq., and the arbitrator chosen and selected by
the defendant, William Christie, is Samuel Nicholas, Esq. ; the said arbitrators, in case of disagreement, to name an umpire. The arbitrators
to decide whether William Christie is entitled to
a distinct and separate interest in the Florida
lands, as he alleges, or to an undivided interest
in the proceeds of the same, as alleged by Carnochan & Mitchel. If they decide in favour of
complainants upon this point, then the whole property shall be -placed in the hands of trustees
mutually appointed by the parties,.with authority
to sell the samae, or such part thtereof as may be
necessary, and appropriate the proceeds to Wit-.
liam Christie on his own account, and to Ithe
credit of the balance which shall be found due
to him, until the same is extinguibhed; in the proportion of the respective interests of William
Christie and Carnochan & Mitchel. If they

OP THE UNITED STATES..

decide in favour of the defendant upon this 1826.
point, then it is agreed, that an immediate parti- Carnochas
tion of the property shall be made, and the part
V.
Christif
placed
be
shall
Mitchel
&
allotted to Carnochan
in the hands of such trustees, and, the same, or
such parts as may be necessary, to be sold, and
the proceeds appropriated in like manner to the
payment of the balance found due to William
Christie by Carnochan & Mitchel, until the same
is paid. That, as soon as that balance is paid,
the deeds and other encumbrances held by said
William Christie, with the settled 4count and
note of Carnochan &-Mitchel,- are to be delivered up.
" That it shall be referred to the said arbitrators to determine whether 'thepayment of the
balance should be made in England -at par, or
here."
"On the 14th of February, 1822, the following
award was raurned, and filed in Court.
"IN

THE SIXTH CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITE),
STATES, DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

"0. and ll.)
'Aequity.
v.
J.
C. and
"ARBITRATION.
The undersigned arbitrators,
chosen and selected by the above named parties,
as will more fdlly appear by' eference to the sub-

mission calling them to perform this duty, under

date of the twenty-eighth of December, eighteen
hundred and twenty-one, beg leave to report and
award to the following result, after the most'patient hearing of the parties 'aforesaid, and a

C;ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

careful examination of the books, papers, letters,

c
Carnochan

and
, vouchers, which have been submitted to their

Y.

inspection, and, also, after giving all matters and
things in controversy the most mature delibera-

Christie.

tion.
"1st. Thai William Christie place to the credit
side of his account with the late firm of Carnochan and Mitchel, the sum of eighteen thousand
eight hundred and forty-six dollars and fifty-five
cents, as an amount paid by said Carnochan &
AMitchel, through Mitchel, Nephew & Co. of Havana, to Messrs. John & James Inerarity, for
sixteen shares, or eighty thousand acres of land,
bought by Carnoehan & Mitchel, by order, and
for account of, William Christie, of said John
& James Inerarity, lying in the territory of West
Florida; that the said Carnochan & Mitchel bo
also credited with an accumulating interest on
said amount from the dates of payment, which
precise periods will more fully appear by reference to an affidavit made by Colin Mitchel at
Havana, on the nineteenth day of October, eighteen hundred and twenty-one; said interest to
be calculated at and after the rate of five per
eentum per annum ; provided, nevertheless, that
the said John Carnochan and Peter Mitchel
shall grant, or cause to be granted, unto the
said William- Christie, a clear, unencumbered,
and satisfactory title, to the said sixteen shares,
or eighty thousand acres .of land lying in West
Florida as aforesaid.
-' 2d. William Christie to place to the credit
side of his account with the late firm of Carno-

OF THE UNITED STATFS.

453

chan &,Mitchel, the sum of ten thousand pounds 1826.
sterling, or forty-four tliousand four hundred and Carnochart
c'2
forty-four dollars and forty-four cents, being in
V.
Christie.
shares,
forthirty
Mitehel
..
payment toCarnochatn
or one hundred and fifty thousand acres of land,
lying in the territory as aforesaid of West Florida ; the said sum of forty-four thousand four
hundred and forty-four dollars and forty-four
cents, to draw an accumulating interest to the credit of the said Carnochan & Mitchel, at and after
the rate of five per centum per annum. The period when said interest shall commence to be
calculated, shall be fiom the day of the date of
the title, which title is referred to in the provision next following: provided, nevertheless, that
the said John Carnochan and Peter Mitchel
shall grant, or cause to be granted, unto the said
William Christie, a elear, unencumbered, and satisfactory title of the said thirty shares, or one
hundred and fifty thousand acres of land, lying in
the territory of West Florida as aforesaid.
"3d. William Christie to place to the credit
side of his account, with the late firm or Carnochan & Mitchel, the.one half amount of the sterling cost of a case of merchandise, marked AP.
(56) number fifty-six, shipped to A. R1. Putnam &
Co., in the year eighteen hundred and sixteen,
amounting to the sum of ninety-one pounds, eight
shillings, and seven pence, as the whole cost; one
half to be thus credited is forty-five pounds,
fourteen shillings, and three pence half penny,
or two hundred and three dollars sixteen cents,
without placing any interest whatever to the ere-

454

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

dit of Carnochan & Mitchel, on this amount, no
Carnochan interest considered as of right accruing on this
,.
credit.
Christie.
"4th. William Christie to place to the credit
side of his account with the late firm of Carnochan & Mitchel, one third of the net proceeds of
twenty-one bales of citton, the whole amount of
net proceeds of twenly-five bales of cotton,
and also the wh.ole amount "of net proceeds
of thirty-nine bales of cotton, with an accumulating interest from the date when in funds
from the sale of same, At and after the-rate
-of five per centum per annum : provided, neverth'eless, that the said. John Carnochan &
Peter Mitchel shall grant to s'aid William Christie,
the bonds 'of Bainbridges & Brown, of London,
indemnifying the said William Christie' against
any future claimants whatever, for the net proceeds of said twenty-fiye bales of cotton ; and,
also, against all such una-scertained charges as
now exist, or may hereafter -exist, against the
thirty-nine bales of cotton as~aforesaid. "
"5th. William Christie to place to the credit
side of his account with the late firm of Carno;
chan & Mitchel, one half the amount of three
hundred and fifty pounds sterling paid for deeds,
&c., one half to be borne by the said William
Christie, and the other half by Carnochan &
Mitchel, being seven hundred and sevenity-seven
dollars and seventy-seven cents, With interest at
five per centum per annum as aforesaid, from the
period of the- debit in the books of said William
Christie.
"6th. William Christie to place to the credit
1826.

OF THE UNITED .STATES.

side of his account with the late firm of Carno-

455
1826.

Carno~Cta .'0arnechan
_h
char. & Mitchel, a discount paid by Carnochan
V, •
& Mitchel on Virginia bank notes received from
John Gruve- on. account- of William Christie, Christie.
amounting to twenty-two hundred ,and ten dollars, at two and a half per cent. is fifty-five dollars and twenty-five cents, with interest, at five
per centum per annum, from the date of receipt
of said money.
"7th. Win. Christie to place to the credit side
of his account with the late firm of. Carnochan
and Mitchel, the sum of sixty dollars and seventy-five cents, for attaching money in the hainds
of R. Harvey, of Augusta, with interest of five
per centum per annum, from the date of such
charge in the books of Ctrnochan & Mitchel.
"8th,. Willianm Christie to place to the credit
side of his account with the late firm of Carnochan & Mitchel, two thirds amount of -the
expenses on loading the ships Ocean and Aberdeen, the whole amounting to two hundred and
forty:three dollars and seventy-five cents ; two
thirds of which, to be credited as aforesaid, is
one hundred and sixty-two dollars and fifty e'nts,
with interest as aforesaid, at the rate.of five pdr
centum per annum, from the date of such char'ge
int he books of Carnochan & Mitchel.
"9th. Carpochan & .Mitchel to place to the
credit side of their account .with William Christie, the sum of four pounds sterling, or seventeendollars and seventy cents, paid by the latter to
-Captain Munro, with interest, as aforesaid, at
the rate of 'five per centum per annum from the

456

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

date of such advance, as entered. in the books
Carnobehan of William Christie.
1".1Oth. Carnocharn & Mitchel are to account
Christie. to William Christie for a Libranza, amounting
to three hundred dollars, transmitted to Colin
Mitchel, of Havana, for collection; also for a
piece of red cloth and some thread, remaining
on hand unsold.
"11th. The undersigned distinctly "award and
determine, that the amounts expressed in the first,
second, and fourth preceding items of this instrument of award, cannot be considered as sums
to the credit side of William Christie's account
with'Carnochan & Mitchel, until all the conditions annexed to those respective items are fulfilled. The amounts expressed in items third,
fifth, sixth, seventh and. eighth, are without any
condition, and are, of course, to be immediately
placed to the credit of Carnochai & Mitchel,
inthe account of William Christie.
",12th. The 'undhrsigned arbitrators award,
and hereby decide, that the interest of William
Christie in the Florida lands, meaning thereby
the 80,000 acres, and 150,000 acres, mentioned
in items first and second of this instrument of
award, is an pndivided interest.
1"8th.'The undersigned arbitrators award, and
heieby decide, that William Christie is entitled
to debit and credit Carnocban & Mitchel, in
account, at the rate of five per centum per annum' interest annually, as same ,as heretofore,
or shall hereafter become due, so that each

OF THE UNITED STATES.

annual accumulation of interest shall become 1826.
principal, and be considered as same.
'
Carnochost
"14th. The arbitrators feel themselves unquali- - v.
fled to decide upon a bill of charges exhibited by Chte.
William Christie as his expenses in prosecuting
this suit, together with other charges that have
been incurred, incidental to the same, both in
England and this country, and would beg leave,
with the consent of both parties, to refer the
same to his Honour, the Judge, to decide (on
whom, in this cointroversy, such expenses can
most properly fall.
" 15th. The arbitrators do hereby award and
decide, that any balance that is now due, or shall
be hereafter paid by Carnochan & Mitchel to
William Christie, shall be considered as money
due and payable in England at par.' If, therefore, the sum is paid by Carnochan & Mitchel
to William Christie in the United States, it must
be in British sterling, at the current rate of exchange between the two countries..
."16th. Whereas William Christie has this day
exhibited to the undersigned arbitrators his entire account current with the late firm of Carnochan & Mitchel, with interest calculated thereon
up to the sixteenth instant, we -have .duly examined the same, andbelieve itto be ajust and faithful account, showing an amount of thirty thousand four hundred and eighty-three pounds, one
shilling and two pence, or one hundred and thirtyfive thousand, four hundred and eighty dollars,
and twenty-five cents, due him from Carnochan
Vor,. XL

E

458

1826.
A. -~V
Carnpehan
C.h

Christie.

CASES TIN THE SUPREME, COURT

& Mitchel, and which sum we do hereby award
unto the said William Christie as the basis upon
which a final settlement of accounts shall take
place between him and the said Carnochan &
Mitchel. It is to be distinctly understood by
both parties in this controversy, that this amount
of (thirty thousand four hundred and eightythree pounds, one shilling, two pence sterling,
or) one hundred and thirty-five thousand four.
hundred and.-eighty dollars, and twenty-five
cents, as now awarded to William Christie, is
subject to all such deductions as are mentioned
in the preceding itenbs of this instrument of
award; namely, the unconditional items to be
iniimediately deducted ; the conditional items to
-be deducted as the provisions of those conditions shall be removed by Carnochan & Mitchel,
as will more fully appear is intended by the arbitrators, by reference to the eleventh item of
this instrument of awaid: provided, nevertheless, that such amounts as are awarded to the
credit of Carnochan and Mitchel in the preceding
items
of this instrument of award, as are hereby
;credited
in the account current, ds aforesaid,
of
William Christie, shall be considered always as
settled by being placed in said account to the
credit of Carnochan & Mitchel, and, of course,
cannot be deducted again, as might be inferred,
without this explanation, under the name of a
provision to this item the sixteenth.
".17th. This item the arbitrators beg leave to
introduce as explanatory, rather than having any
specific award or decision thereon, affecting the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

parties, in controversy, by observing, that the 1826.
actual amount' that it may be desirable to ascer- Carnochan
v.
tain may be due from Carnochan & Mitchel to.
Christie.
from
arising
day,
future
any
at
Christie,
William
the account now referred to of William Christie,,
and also the deductions to be made from the
same, growing out of this instrument of award,
may be known by ascertaining whether Carnochan & Mitchel have removed the conditions annexed to items first, second, and fourth; and, if
found tobe removed, then the whole amount now
awarded in their favour (under conditions) will
be placed to their credit in the account of William Christie; which, on supposition of being
removed and placed at their credit at this period
of time, would leave a balance due from Carnochan & Mitchel to William Christie, of a sum
within the amount of seventy thousand dollars.
"SAI. NICHOLAS,
(Signed,)
"W:. GASTON.

"jSavannah, February 13th, 1822"
Exceptions were taken to this award; and, or
the 23d of December, 1822, an interlocutory decree was pronounced by the Circuit Court, affirming the award, and referring the cause to the
Register, "to report the precise amount due the
defendant, absolutely, according to the principles
established by the award; also, the amount due
hypothetically, should the complainants fail to.
fulfil the conditions imposed by the -award ; in
which undertaking he shall be at liberty to invoke.the aid of the arbitrators, or either of them'

460
1826.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

H6 must also report to the Court the titles proto be given by the complainants to the dev.
fondant Christie, for the several purchases of the
Chrstnie. Florida lands, should any difficulty arise between the parties on the legal sufficiency of the
titles."
The Court also directed the parties to join in
a transfer of the Florida lands to trustees, for
the purpose of raising the money due under
the award, when instructed to. do so under order
of the Court.
The report of thle Register was made, show-ing the sum 'due according to the award, should
a title be made to Christie for the Florida lands
he had purchased; -and also the sum which
would be due, should no such deeds be made.
At the same term, on the return of this report,
a final -decree was pronounced, affirming the
award, and affirming also the Register's report;
and directing the parties to join in a transfer of
their wholeInterest in the Florida lands to trustees, "in trust to hold the same in pursuance of
'the terms of the said submission, and the award
made thereon." The injunction was dissolved,
and the bill dismissed.
The plaintiffs appealed from this decree, and
contend, that the award ought to be set aside,
because,
-1st. The arbitrators have not decided the
whole matter that was submitted to them.
2d. They have decided and awarded what was
not submitted.
3d. The award is uncertain.

'Varnochahtposed

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1. In support of the *eiceptionfounded on the 1826.
failure of the arbitrators to decide • on the whole Carnochan
inatter submitted to them, it is alleged by the
v.
plaintiffs, that the duress under, which the deeds Christie.
of trust, executed in England, were obtained, tceptinson
arbitra.
theto'decide
constituted a very essential part of the contro- oftors
the whole matversy, on which the award is entirely silent,
It is undoubtedly true, that this is a "matter intors referted
controversy as exhibited in the pleadings," and
would be submitted to the arbitrators by the ge.
neral Words of the first sentence, describing the
extent of the submission, if it were not -withdrawn from them in a subsequent part of the
same instrument. But we think it is withdrawn.
After directing that the arbitrators shall ascertain the balance due on the account, theagreement of submission adds: "that as soon as that
balance is paid, the deeds and other encumbrances held by the said William Christie, with the
settled account and note of Carnochan &
Mitchel, are to be delivered up."
This is, we think, a waiver of any objection
to the manner in which those deeds were obtained, and an admission that they should remain
in the hands of Christie as a security for the
debt, until it should be discharged.
2. The second omission with which this award
is charged, is the failure to decide on the claim
of the plaintiffs to a credit for Christie's proportion of the expenses incurred in the settlement
of the Florida lands.
This, too, was undoubtedly a matter of controversy. But we think it has been decided. The

CASES INTHE SUPREME COURT

1826.

arbitrators have, allowed to the plaintiffs eyveral
Canchn-edits claimed by thera, but. have not expressed
v.
their rejection of any item which:may have been
Christie made and disallowed. Instead of introducing
into the award the several items which may have
been claimed and disallowed, they award a specific sum to the defendant, with a declaration
that the several items -enumerated in the preceding part of the award as credits to which the
plaintiffs are entitled, are to' be deducted therefrom. - This is, we think, a rejection of all credits not enumerated.
3. The failure to decide on the allegation made
in the bill, and denied in the answer, that 50,000
acres, part of the interest in the Florida land
sold to the~defendant, was a mere donation, made
under expectations which were entirely disappointed.
This also is, :we think, decided in the award.
The 2d article directs a credit of £10,000 sterling to be given to C. & M., being' in payment
to them for thirty shares, or 150,000 acres of
land, lying in the* territory of West Florida.
This, we think, asserted the title of the said
Christie to the Whole quantity .of land, and negatives' the right of the plaintiffs to reclaim any
part of it.
Objectio to The second objection to the award is, that the
th wrthat abt
the arbitrators arbirators have exceeded their power, in requihad exceedet rt
ac
their power. rg the plaintiffs to give a clear unencumbered
title to the Florida lands.
The plaintiffs are not required to give a title.
This is not a substantive and independent part

OF THE UNITED STATES.

463

of the award, directing theim to do a-particular 18266
act, for the neglect of which they would be lia- .Carnochan
ble to damages, or for the enforcing of which an
V.
This part of the Christie,
attachment might issue.
award is not compulsory. If the plaintiffs choose
to waive the credit for the purchase money, they
are left at liberty to do so, and to Withhold the
title, in which case the award affords the -defendant no coercive means to compel a conveyanced.
But had this article of the award been peremptory, it is by no means clear that the arbitrators
would have exceeded their power in making it;
That power extends to all matters in controversy, as exhibited in the pleadings, unless it be
restrained by other parts of the. submission.
The title which the defendant might rightfully
demand was one of these matters. The plaintiffs contend in their bill, that the defendant was
perfectly. acquainted with the state of the title,
and was bound to take it, such as it was; and
there are strong circumstances to support their
pretensions, at least as far as respects the 80,000
acres purchased from the Inerarities. The defendant insists, that they were bound to make
him a'clear title, and relies to prove this on a
mdmorandum at the foot of a stated account, in
these words :
"Memorandum.- From the balance due to me on
this account as per contra, there is to be deducted, as agreed on between Messrs. Carnochan &
Mitchel and myself, in lieu of 150,000 acres, or
30 shares of their- purchase of Apalachicola
lands, held in trust for them. by .Mr. Colin

CASES W THE SUPREME COURT

1826. Mitchel, on his and their executing to me a proCoh per title for the same, the sum of 10,000 pounds."
The memorandum proceeds in like manner to
Chi
state, that on a title for the 80,000 acres, there
shall be deducted the sum of 6,583 pounds eight
shillings and six pence.
The question, what was a proper title, was for
a Court to decide under all the circumstances of
the contract, and was transferred to the arbitrators by the submission, unless it be withdrawn
from them by a subsequent clause of that instrument.
'The plaintiffs contend, that-it is withdrawn, by
the provision, that, if the arbitrators should deoide that Christie was entitled to an undivided
interest in the proceeds of the Florida lands,
then the whole property shallbe placed in the
hands of trustees, " with authority to sell the
same, or such part thereof as may be necessary,
and appropriate the proceeds to William Christie on his own account, and to the credit of the
balance which shall be found due to him, until
the same is extinguished in the proportion of the
respective interests of W. C. and C. & M."
The 12th article of the award decides, that the
interest of W. C. in the Florida lands, is an undivided interest. The plaintiffs insist, that the
parties have themselves provided for the state of
things produced by this decision. They have
directed that all the lands shall be placed in the
hands of trustees, to be sold by them so far as
may be necessary for the payment of the debt
due to Christie. They have agreed on what

OF THE UNITED STATES.

465

shall be, done if the lands were held in common, 1826.
and that on which 'they have agreed is inconsis- Carnochall
"I"
tent with what the arbitrators have done.
V.
There is, undoubtedly, some confusion in this Christie.
part of the'submission, which renders the construction difficult. It directs, that the interest of
Christie, as well as that of C. & M., shall be
-sold, and the proceeds applied to the individual
credit of Christie, and to the, credit of C. & M.
on their debt to Christie, in proportion to their
respective interests in the land. This-may be
readily dohe, should the lands be sufficient to
discharge the debt. Should they be irsufficieni,
and should the insufficiency arise from want of
title in C. & M., Christie gives the credit absolutely, although he had contended that the right
of the plaintiffs to the credit depended on the validity of the title they sold. rThis ,consideration
may enter into the construction of the submission, if the words be doubtful, but .cannot control
the arrangement of the parties if that be intelligible. We rather incline to the opinion, that as
the whole property, including the interest of
Christie, was to be placed in the hands of trustees to be sold on joint account, that the conveyance of' a title to 'Christie could not be contemplated a§.a preliminary measure.

-

But it is un-

necessary to give any positive opinion on this
point, because, we think, the award must be set
aside because it is uncertain, and not final in a
very material point.
The arbitrators have determined that C. &
VOL. XI.

CASES

N' THE SUPREME COURT

1826. 'M. are entitled to a credit of 63,290 dollars and
0 aarnbchan

99 cents, on account of the sales of lands to

. ," Christie, provided they " shall grant, or cause
Christie,
Cited.
to be granted, to the said W. C., a clear, unenThe aw'ard
set
aside, a&cumbered and satisfactory title" to the said lands.
being uncert*oa nd in-No time is limited.by which this title shall be

-conclusive.

made. The question, then, whether this credit
is to be allowed, or disallowed, is left indefinitely
open. Consequently, the award -is not final. It
does not settle the accounts between the parties.
. If it be said that the Court may prescribe some
time by which the title shall be made, the answer is, that if the arbitrators could refer that
question to the Court, they have not done so.
They have left it ehtirely open. But the award
ought itself to settle finally and conclusively the
whole matter referred to them. It is contrary to
the principle of a general reference, that the
Court sliould take, the award as far as it goes,
and supply 'all omissions by its decree. The
award ought to be in itself a complete adjustment of the controversies submitted to the arbitrators.
This award, therefore, ought to be set aside,
and the decree affirming it reversed, and the
cause remanded to the Circuit Court. The.case
will, then, stand before that Court as it did previous to the submission. The Court may dissolve the injunction so far as it should be perfectly
satisfied that the plaintiffs are indebted to-the
defendant; and Christie may either avail him

OF THE UNITED STATES.

self of the deeds he has received, or file a cross
bill praying the aid of the Court.

467

1826.
U. States
V.

DECREE. This cause came on, &c.
On n
sideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that
there is error in the decree of the Circuit Court
in affirming the award made by the arbitrators in
this cause, which said award byght to have been
set aside, because the same is not certain and
final. It is, therefore, DECREED aud ORDERED,
that the said decree be reversed and annulled,
and that the cause be remanded to the Circuit
Court, with directions to set aside the said award,
and to take such further proceedings in the
said cause as may be equitable and just.

.CoNsTITUTxoiNAL LAw.]

The

UNITED STATES V. ORTEGA.

An indictment under the Crimes Act of 1790, c. 96. [IX.] s. 87. for
infracting the law of nations by offering violence to the person of
a foreign minister, is not a case "affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls," within the 2d section of the 3d article of
the constitution of the United States.
The Circuit Courts have jurisdiction of such an offence under tihe
l1th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
Quire. Whether the jurisdiction, of the Supreme Court is not only
original, but; exclusive of the Circuit Court, in "tasas affecting ambassadors, other public ministers add consuls," within the trju&
construction ofrthe 2d section of the 3d article of the constitution?"

Ortega.

