692

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. low by the plaintiff, and to the competency of
Swhich
objection was made, and upon which quesThe U. S.
V.
tion the- opinions of the Judges of said Court
Amedy.
were opposed, was competent evidence, on the

part of the plaintiff, to sustain the issue on his
part, &c.

jCONSTRUC'rIoN OF STATUTE.

EYVDBNCE.j

The UNITED STATEs against AMED1.
Under the act of the 26th of May, 1790, c. S3. [xi.] copies of the
legislative acts of the sexeral States, authenticated by having tile
seal of the State affixed thereto, are conclusive evidence of such
acts in the Courts of other States, and of the Union. No other
formality is required than the annexation of the seal ; and, in the
absence of all contrary proof, it must be presumed to have been
done by an officer having the custody thereof, and competent authority to do the act.
Under the Crimes Act of the 26th of March, 1804, c. S93. [xl.] s. 2.
on an indictment for destroying a vessel with intent to prejudice
the underwriters, it is sufficient to show the existence of an association actually carrying on the business of insurance, by whose
known officers defacto the policy was executed, and to prejudice
whom the vessel insured was destroyed; witlout proving the existence of a legal corporation authorized to insure, or a compliance
on the part of such corporation with the terms of its charter, or
the validity of the policy of insurance.
The terms " any person or persons," in the act, extend to corpora-

tions, and bodies politic, as well as to natural persons.

TnE prisoner, John B. Amedy, was indicted
tn the Circuit Court of Virginia, under the act

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of Congress of the 26th of March, 1804, c. 393., 1826.
[xl.] for destroying a vessel-with intent to prejudice the underwriters, and after a verdict of
v.
guilty, his counsel moved the Court for a new Amedy
trial upon the following grounds:
1. That the exemplification of the acts of the
legislature of the State of Massachusetts, incorporating the Boston Insurance Company, (who
were the underwriters,) given at the trial, was
not admissible in evidence as a sufficient verification thereof. The papers given in evidence
were printed copies of the acts, with certain
erasures and interlineations in writing, and to the
copy of each act was annexed a separate attestation in the fbilowing words: " A true copy,
a Which provides, (s. 2.) "1That if any person shall, on the
high seas, wilfully and corruptly cast away, burn, or otherwise destroy, any ship or vessel of which he is owner in part or in whole,
or in anywise direct or procure the same to be done, with intent
or design to prejudice any person or persons that hath underwritten, or shall underwrite, any policy or policies of insurance thereon, or of any merchant or merchants that shall load goods thereon,
or of any other owner or owners of such ship or vessel, the person or persons offending therein, being thereof lawfully convicted,
shall be deemed and adjudged guilty of felony, and shall suffer
death."
It is stated, in a note to the case of the United States v. Johns,
4 Dall Rep. 412. that the second member of the above section is
so inaccurately expressed, that the Attorney of the District (Mr.
Dallas) thought, at first, there must .have been some error of the
press; but the Secretary of State informed him, that the printed
copy was found, upon a comparison, to agree exactly with the
roll. See the analogous English statutes, 4.Geo. I. c. 12. s. 3. and
I1 Geo. I. c. 29. 1 Abbott onShipp. 167, 168.
VOL. XT.
50

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'1

1826.
The U.'S.

v.
Amedy.

attest, Edward D. Bangs, Seiretary.' The copies were attached together, and exemplified
under the great seal of the State of Massachusetts, with the following certificate anhexed:
" Commonwealth 'of Massachusetts. Secretary's Department, November 12th, 1825. I certify that the printed copies of the following acts,
viz. ' An Act to define the- Powers, Duties, and
Restrictions of Insurance Companies'-' An act
authorizing the several Insurance Companies in
this Commonwealth to insure against Fire'' An act -to incorporate the Boston Insurance
Company'-' An act to incorporate the Commonwealth Insurance Company'-and ' An act
in addition to an act, entitled, an act to incorporate the Commonwealth Insurance Company;'
to which printed copies this certificate is annexed, have been by me compared with the original
acts an file in this office, and that the same are
ntow true copies of the said original acts, except
the usual attestation of enactment, and signatures subjoined to each act. In testimony
whereof, I hereunto set my hand, and have affixed
the seal of said Commonwealth, the day and
year above mentioned. (Signed.) EIDWARD. D.
BANGS, Secietary of the Commonwealth."
2. That before the policy of insurance underwritten by the Boston Insurance Company
could be given in evidence, it was necessary to
prove that the subscription to the stock, and the
payment of such subscription, as required by
the act of incorporation, had' actually been
made. The policy of insurance was admitted

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in evidence by the Court below, without proof

-395
1826.

that the subscription to the stock had actually

been made; it being proved that there was a

v.

company in Boston called the Boston Insurance Amedy.
Company, doing the business of insurance, and
paying losses when incurred, and that 'the paper
produced was executed after the manner in
which they usually made their policies of iiisu-

rhnce.
3. That the policy ought to have been proved
to be executed by the authority of the company,
in such manner as to be legally binding on them.
4. That the Court instructed the jury " that it
was not material whether the company was incorporated or not; and it was not material whether the policy were valid in law or not; that
the prisoner's guilt did not depend upon the legal.
obligation of the policy; but upon the question
whether he had wilfully and corruptly cast away
the vessel, as charged in the indictment, with intent to injure the underwriters.
The Judges of the Court below having been divided in opinion upon the motion for a new trial,
the case was brought before this Court upon a
certificate of that division.
Mr. Worthington, for the prisoner, argued, .1_rcji wth.
that, in order to convict him of the offence
charged in the indictment, it was necessary that
the policy of insurance should be a valid contract. The intent with which an act is done is
not susceptible of direct proof. The only means
by which it can be established is by evidence of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
The U. S.

V.

Amedy.

facts from which it may be directly inferred. If
the probable consequence of the act done is to
produce the result from which the intent 'is inferred, the inference may be reasonable; but
when, by no possibility, the result could occur,
how can a fraudulent intent be inferred ? If, in
this case, the policy were valid, the probable
consequence of the destruction of the vessel is
a prejudice to the underwriters, from which
might be fairly inferred, in the absence of explanatory testimony, a design to prejudice. But
if the policy was void, no such consequence
could possibly happen, and no inference can
arise, from it alone, of a design to produce such
a consequence. The strongest analogous cases
are those of forgery, in which the distinction appears clearly to have been taken. In those cases
it has been determined, that where the probable
consequence of. the act was to defraud, the intent might be inferred. But, where such was
not the case, as where the instrument was void
-n its face, and, therefore, could not deceive if
ordinary vigilance was exerted, the intent could
not be inferred.a Thus, where one Wall was
indicted and convicted of the forgery of a: will
void under the statute of frauds, the conviction
was held to be erroneous.' This question appears to have been decided in England in the
a Jones' case, 2 East's Cro. Law, 952.
b 2 East's Cro. Law, 953. Moffat's case, 2 East's Cro. Law,
954. 2 Leach, 483.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

397

case of'the King v. Gillson.a In that case, the 1826.
prisoner was indicted under tle statute of 43 Tihe U. S.
Geo. I1. c. 58. s. 1. for feloniously setting fire
v.
to a house, with intent to defraud the London Amedy,
Assurance Company. A policy was produced,
regularly executed, covering goods in Woodstreet, on which was endorsed a memorandum,
stating that the goods were removed to Old Boswell Court, and that the removal was allowed.
This memorandum was not stamped. The
question arose; whether the written contract,
being void by-the revenue laws for want of -a
stamp, was properly admitted in evidence, and
it was determined that the evidence wag not admissible. In the case of the United States v.
Johns,' this point was decided, and the Court
held, that it was necessary to prove a valid policy.
If, then, the validity of the policy is essential to
the offence, it becomes necessary in this case- to
show a legally subsisting corporation, capable of
executing a valid policy of insurance, and a policy, legally executed. On the first point, it
might be contended on the part of the prosecution, that though it may be necessary to prove a
party actually contracting, yet that proof of a
corporation de facto"would be sufficient. But,
it was insisted,.a corporation exists by its charter alone. It is that which controls its operations, and settles the mode and extent of its
obligations. If the validity of the policy is necessary, it is surely essential to show that the
a I Taunt. Rep. 95.

b 4 Dall.Rep, 412-.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. body which executes it was legally empowered
0 U. S. to do so, and that the act itself was performed
The
. r.
in pursuance of those powers. This question
Anedy. was so decided in the case of the United Sta 2s
v. Johns. It was insisted, that the papers gii en
in evidence did not afford evidence of these
facts, because they were described in the certificate as printed papers, whereas they are partly
written; and they were so loosely attached to
the paper to which the seal is affixed as not to

afford satisfactory evidence that they were the
papers intended to be verified. If, however, the
papers should be deemed sufficiently authenticated, still it is necessary, in order to ,how a
valid policy, to exhibit evidence that the corporation went into operation according to the terms
of its charter.0 It was also irisisted. that a corporation was not a " person," within the meaning of the act of Congress. rhis point was
raised in the ease of the United States v. Johns,
but not decided. It appears, however, to have
been determined in England, in tie case of the
King v. .larrison'
The Attorney General, for the United States,
argued, that the evidence given of the acts of
the legislature of Massachusetts incorporating
the Boston Insurance Company, who were the
underwriters intended to be prejudiced by the
a Henriquez v. The Dutch West India Company, cited in
2 Lord Raym. 1535. 4 Conz. Dig. 468. note a, Am. ed.
7 1 Leach, 180. 2 East'sP1 Cro. 927.988.

oF THE UNITED STATES.

699

felony, was sufficient under the act of Congress" 1826.
of the 26th of May, 1790, c'38. [xl.] prescri-

Tihe U. S.

biAg the manner in which the public acts, &c. of
V.
eah
shlIo'st
Amedy.
each State shall be authenticated, so as to give
them full faith and credit in every other State.
All that the statute requires, in respect to legislative acts, is, that the seal of the State should
be affixed, and that obviates every objection
which had been made to the exemplification in
this case.
It was further contended, that proof that the
company actually carried on the business of insurance was sufficient, in a public criminal prosecution, without showing that they were legally
authorized to transact it. It was immaterial
whether there was a valid policy or not. The
guilt of the act consists in the act itself, and the
aninus with which it was committed. It wvas
analogous to the cases of forging a will, where
the act was intended to defraud, not the party
whose signature is forged, but third peisons, and
it turns out the testator was alive. The guilt
in such cases cannot depend upon the certainty
that the party would have the benefit of th6
crime, had his attempt- been successful. In the
case of the King v. Gillson, the objection was
not to the proof of the policy, but to the written
endorsement or m'emorandum, Which a particular
statute had specially declared inadmissible in
evidence unless stamped. It was, on its face,
inadmissible, and the existence of the insurance
it

Iawk. Pl. Cr'o. ch . 70. s. 7. 2 East'sPL. Cro. 948.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

could not, therefore, be established. As to the
of proof that the conditions of the
The U. S.. Srequisition
incorporating act had been complied with, it was
v.
Amedy. a §ufficient answer to say, that the party was es1826.

topped from denying it, by receiving a policy executed by the company. To require proof of a
valid contract would be to go into the whole case
as a civil-action, and would require an investigation of the whole law of insurance. Whether
the term " person or persons," in a statute, includes such artificial persons as a corporation,
had never been decided in this country. The
supposed authority cited in the negative,a Was
entitled to the less weight, as it rested merely upon
a MS. note of Mdr. Justice Buller, was decided
without argument, and is contrary to the analogy
of the law which regards corporations as persons for all civil purposes. Lord Coke, in commenting on the statute 31 Eliz. ch. 7. concerning
the erection of cottages, where the term used is,
"no persom shall," &c. says, "this extends as
well to persons politic and incorporate, as to
natural persons whatsoever.' The other authorities are to the same purpose, and consider the
term persons as including those artificial beings
called corporations, as well as natural persons.'
Mr. Coxe, for the -prisoner, in reply, stated,
a 2 East's Cro. Law, 9V . 1 Leach, 215.
b 2 Inst. 736.
c I Mod. Rep. 164. 1 Wroodes. Rep. 195.

1 BI.Conim

OF THE UNITED STATES.

that in order to determine the questions in the
case, it was important to consider the character
of the offence created by the statute, and charged
in the indictment.

In ordinary cases of crime, the act charged
is, in itself, criminal; the intent to commit the
offence is legally inferred from the act itself. In
murder, the act of killing draws after it the legal
inference of the malice prepense; in larceny,
the act of taking the property of another proves
the animus furandi, and so in other instances.
The intent, or mental design, is, in all these instances, proved by the act, and this intent is coextensive with the act done. In the present
case, however, the act done by the accused is innocent and legal in itself. He was the owner of
the vessel-,so charged in the indictment. In that
character he might destroy his own property
without being chargeable with any evil disposition or design. The simple act of destruction
is, then, evidence of no criminality. Whence,
then, does the criminality arise ? From the intent to prejudice the underwriter. This intent
is the hidden operation of the mind, legally to
be inferred from certain facts positively proved.
Those facts, which alone can warrant this inference, are, first, that such a person exists as the
indictment charges that he designed to prejudice; second, that such person was in the situation which made such act likely to prove prejudicial. The first, therefore, requires that such a
party should be in existence; the second, that his
relation should be proved to subsist.
VOL. X.

51

401

1826.
The U. S.

V.

Amedy.

402

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'I

It is essential, then, that it should appeal in
The U. S. Sproof that there was such a corporation as the
V.
Boston Insurance qornpany, because, unles,,
such a party existed, the law cannot infer tv
Amedy.
1826.

design to prejudice it. It is equally essenti-,l
that a valid policy of insurance should be proved
because, unless that party was placed in thc
situation in which it could be injured by the destruction of the vessel, it is impossible that such
a design can be inferred.
These circumstances, then, are of the very
essence of the 'crime charged, and must be established by plenary proof., How, then, is the existence of the corporation to be proved? In
cases in which it is a plaintiff, it must also prove
its existence; and this is to be done by the production of the charter, or the act of incorporation.a It cannot be pleaded in abatement by a
defendant, sued by a corporation, that there is
no such corporation, because, as that fact must
be necessarily proved as part of the title, it is included in the general issue. In the case of the
United States v. Johns,b (more fully, as to this
point, reported in a MS. statement of the case
by Mr. Justice Washington,) on an indictment
undel" this act of Congress, proof of the act of
incorporation was required and produced.
That there should be a valid and subsisting
policy is equally essential. Unless there was
such a policy, covering the identical property.
upon the very voyage in which the vessel was ena 2 Tlord Ravmi.,

D55. Rep. 4 1)'
h 4 Dall.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

403

gaged, covering such a risk, and known to the 1826.
accused, the law cannot intend that he designed Th6 U. S.
V.
to prejudice the underwriter. The rule of law
Amedy.
may
indictment
the
in
laid
fact
every
if
is, that
-be true, and yet the accused may be innocent'of
any offence, the indictment is defective.a If essential to lay it in the indictment, it is equally
essential to establish it by testimony. Unless,
therefore, it be proved, that there was a valid
policy, there could be no underwriter who could
be injured. There pight be a policy covering
the vessel against capture'by the enemy, against
destruction by fire, upon a different voyage from
that which the vessel was pursuing. Under such
circumstances, the law would not infer the intention to prejudice the underwriter. The, case of
the King v. Gillson, appears decisive of this
question, so -ar as its autho'ity is recognised.
And, in the case of the United States v. Johns,
the Court held, it was essential to prove a valid
subsisting policy.
As to the supposed analogous cases of forgery
cited on the part of the prosecution, all cases of
forgery necessarily imply, that the instruments
are in emselves invalid; that they are false in
reality is of the essence of the crime, which consists in the representation of such void-instruments to be valid, with intent to deceive somebody. Such deception is practised upon third
persons, not upon those whose names are forged.
Were a man indicted for representing a forged
a DougZ. Rep. 153.

b ! Taunt. Rep. 95.

404

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
The-U. S.

V.

Amedy.

will to be a genuine one, with intent to defraud a
p~erson shown to be dead, or never to have been
in rerum natura,it might bear upon the former
point raised in this case. Upon this point they
can have no bearing whatever. Unless the instrument charged to be forged is proved to be
false, there can be no conviction for forgery.
Unless, in this case, the policy is proved to be
valid, we insist the same conclusion follows.
The essence of that crime is the representation
of a false instrument to be a genuine one ; the
gist of the offence here is, that a party was in
such a predicament that he might be injured by
the act of the prisoner, and, consequently, that
the policy was a valid -on. The deception in
tha(mt case might be equally successful, and, therefore, equally injuribus, whether the bill purported to be made by a dead man or by a living one,
whether the person who purported to be the
drawer of a bill of exchange, was in existence or
not; and, therefore, that circumstance could
make no difference. In this case, no person

S

could be injured unless there was a valid policy

of insurance, and, therefore, the proof of such
policy is essential. If it be essential that a valid
policy should be proved, (which, in itself, includes
the proof of a legally subsisting corporation,) in
what manner, and by what species of evidence,
is this to be made out? By producing the act of
incorporation or charter. Was, then, the exemplification of the acts of the Massachusetts legislature, in this case, sufficient ? The statute
of Congress directs, that the legislative acts of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

405

the several States should be proved by the an- 1826.
nexation of the great seal. But this provision \The V. S.
V.
was merely in affirmance of the commoh law,
.medy.
of
any
with
dispense
to
designed
not
and was
the rules of the common law. The seal of the
State p'oves itself, and may also prove the truth
of the certificate which it purports to sanction,
but that certificate ought to show, in its terms,
that it was affixed by some one having authority
to affix it. These papers are, evidently, from
the face of them, torn from some printed book,
full of erasures and interlineations not enumerated in the certificate. These printed papers
are not connected directly with the seal. The
seal is on a distinct piece of white paper, and by
a single thread these pretended~acts of the legislature are connected witl that. Some essential
p arts are again connected with those through
which the thread passes by wafers. Does the
seal prove these? If a thread or wafer were
now to be used to connect either, or any of these'
sheets, with a newspaper, it would be equally well
authenticated. These acts Prc not fully given.
They do not include the evidence of enactmeht,
nor do they contain the attestation of those officers whose signatures are essential. These are
constituent parts of every legislative act. They
are all upon the original rolls. The evidence
offered is, then, merely of extracts, or parts of
the acts, not entire copies.
It is not only essential that the act should be
exhibited, but it should also be proved that the
Company went into existence, and continued to

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT

406
subsist.

1826.

The grant of the charter must be ac-

cepted by the voluntary consent of those whom

v
The U. S.

it designed to incorporate, otherwise it will be

Y.

void.

Amedy.

The corporation might also have become

extinct,-it may have been dissolved,-the charter may have been forfeited..
As to the question whether a corporation is a
person, within the mehning of the actof Congress, the case from Leach and East is the only
case which has been referred to, in which the
question has occurred in a criminal prosecution.
It has been suggested, that it is doubtful whether
such a question was, in fact, decided. East
states it positively; in-the last edition of Leach,
the assertion is reiterated, and it is sanctioned by
the last editor of Comyn's Digest, and other
authorities."
March 16th.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered ihe opinion of
the-Court.-

The first question for consideration is, whether
*the evidence of the act of incorporation of the
Boston Insurance Company, disclosed upon the
,record, was admissible as a sufficient verification
thereof. It is matter' of most serious regret,
than an exemplification so loose/ and irregular,
should have been permitted to have found its
way into, any Court of justice. As it has,- it is
our duty to decide-upon its.leg~dlsuffici'ency. It
a 4 Corm. Dig. 468. Note (a) Am. ed. ,
b 4 Gomn. Dig. Note (t). Rugsell on Crimes, 1495

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is under the seal of the State, and verified by the
signature of its
2D Secretary.

1826.
The U. S.

It is said that this is not enough, and that it
V.
ought to be shown, that the Secretary had autho- Amedy.
Evidence of
act.of inrity to do such acts. This objection• must be de- the
corporation.
cided by an examination of the act of Congress sufficient.
of the 26th of May, 1790, prescribing the mode
in which the public acts, records, and judicial
proceedings of each State, shall be authenticated,
so as to take effect in every other State. That
act provides, "that the acts of the. legislatures
of the several States, shall be authenticated by
having the seal of their respective States affixed'
thereto." No other or further formality is required; and the seal itself is supposed to import
absolute verity.- The annexation must,, in the
absence of all contrary evidence, always be presumed to be by a person having ,the.custody
thereof, and competent authority to do the act.
We know, in point of fact, that the constitution
of' Massachusetts has declared', "that the records of the Commonwealth shall be kept in the
office of the Secretary." -But our opinioii proceeds upon the ground, that the act of Congress
requires no other authentication than the seal
of the State.
The other objections to the "xemtlification
are, that the acts are printed copies, with erasures and written interlineations, not so annexed
as to afford perfect certainty that they are the
identical copies to which the Secretary's certificate was oi-iginally annexed. We think these
objections cannot be maintained in point of law.

408

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

The copies must be presumed to be the original
Scopies, in the same state in which they were ori-

e. Sginally

Amedy.

annexed.

Any subsequent alteration or

subtraction would be a public crime of high enormity and the commission of a crime is not to
be presumed. The certificate of the Secretary,
taken together, shows that he did not mean to
state that the printed copies .had not been varied
by writing, so as to'be true copies, for he adds the
phrase, they are now true copies of the original
acts. The original print is still visible throughout, and the alterations in 'writing are mere verbal alterations, not in the slightest degree varying the sense or effeet of any single clause in
which theyoccur; and, to afford additional proof
of identity, the Secretary has on each copy annexed his own signature, with an attestation
of its being a true copy.' There is, therefore,
no presumption, from the face of the papers, or
otherwise, of any alteration or addition sinc'e
the seal of the State was annexed. The anpexa!tion of the usual attestation of the enactment
and signatures to the acts was not necessary.
It is sufficient that their existence and time of
legal enactment is shown.
Our bpinion, thererore, upon this question is,
that the papers 'were properly admitted in evidence.
The next question is, whether before the
policy of insurance, underwritten by the Boston
Insurance Company, could bq given in evidence,
it was necessary to prove that the subscription to,

the stock. and the payment of such subscription

OF THE UNITED STATES.'

409

as required by tke Aot of incorporation had beeti 1826.
made. In our opinion, it was not. This i -notTheU. ..
the case where a suit isbr4iughtvby the corporAtion
T.
-tneceto enforce its rights, where,' if the fact-of its leto pr.,.
gal existence is put in controversy upon the issuea
a-rycompliance,
part .f
the corporation may be called upon to establish on
the corpora-,
its existence. The case of Henriques and Vantioa, with the
terms of its
Mojses v. The Dutch West India Compnycharter. US
actual existcited in 2 Lord Raym. 1535. as decided beence
sufficient.
fore Lord King, whatever may be its authority,
was of that sort, and, therefore, carries with it an
obvious distinction ; nor is this th-g-ae of a, uo
,marraMto,where the government calls upon tlre
company to establish its legal corporate powers
and organization. The case here is of a public

prosecution for a crime, where the corporation
itiko patty, and is merely collaterally introdu6od
as being intended to be prejudiced by the eornmission of the crime. Under such circumstances,
we think, nothing more was necessary for the government to prove, than that the company was de
facto organized, and acting as an insurance company and corporation. The very procurement of a policy by the prisoner, to beexecuted by the company, was of itself primafacie ev'idence for s!uch a
purpose." In cases of the murder of officers, it is
not necessary to prove that they are officers by
producing their commissions. It is sufficient to
show that they act defacto as such. In cases of
piracy, it has been held sufficient to establish the
proprietary title to the ship by evidence of acfual' ossession of the party claiming to be owner.
VOL.XI.

52

CASES

N THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

These are analogous 'cases, and furnish strong
illustrations
of the general principle.
The U. S.
V.
The same answer may be given to another obAmedy. jection, and that is, that the policy ought to have
.ctiLo
oteo-been proved to be executed by the authority of
licy by the the company,in such manner as to be binding on
known officers
of
th~e crnpa-them.
The actual execution.of the policy by the
ny de f[acto,
sufficient.
known officers of the company de facto, is sufficient.
Question upon
The next question arises upon the instruction
tne
instrnctons
of
the
of
the Court, " that it was not material whether
court to ,th
e
iry.

the

company was incorporated or not; and it

was not material whether the policy were valid in
law or not; that the prisoner's guilt did not depend upon the legal obligation of the policy ;
but upon the question whether he had wilfully
and corruptly cast away the vessel, as charged in
the indictment, with intent to injure the actual
underwriters." We think this opinion correct.
The act of Congress of the 26th of March, 1801,
ch. 40. on which this indictment is framed, dedares, " that if any person shall, on the high
seas, wilfully and corruptly cast away, &c. any
ship or vessel, of which he is owner, &c. with
intent or design to prejudice any person or persons that hath underwritten, or shall underwrite, any policy or policies of insurance theri
on, &c. the person or persons offending therein,
&c. &c. shall suffer death. The law punishes
the act when done with an intent to prejudice;
it does not require that there should be an actual
prejudice. The prejudice intended is to be to a
person who has underwritten, or shall underwrite, a policy thereon, which, for aught the pri-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

soner knows, is valid; and does not prescribe 1826.
that the policy should be valid, so that. a recovery T
'he TL S.
V.
could be had thereon. It points to the intended
Amedy.
case
The
defacto.
prejudice of an underwriter
of the King v. Gillson, (I Taunt. Rep. 95.
2 Leach, 1007.) did not turn upon this point.
That was an indictment for maliciously setting
fire to a house, with intent to defraud the London
Assurance Company of houses and goods from
fire. It was necessary to prove that the household goods in the house had been actually insured for the prisoner by the company. A policy
had been executed by the company,, on these
goods, in another house, and subsequently, upon
the -removal of the prisoner to the house set on
fire, a memorandum was endorsed on the policy,
agreeing that the removal of the goods should
be allowed. This memorandum was unstamped'
and by statute was not admissible in, evidence.
Six Judges against five held the evidence inadmissible, upon the ground that the pr6hibition
was intended to be universal. The existence,
therefore, of the insurance itself, could not be
established. If there had been proof that th
policy was executed, the question might have
arisen, whether it was necessary further to prove
its legal validity in all other respects. The argument at the bar, drawn from the known law'ag
to forgeries, is, we think, pertinent. In those'
cases, when they depend" on the common law;
actual prejudice is not necessary to be proved-;
and, of course, the validity of the instrument is
entirely waived.

4YI1

, CASES ri-,THE SUPREME COURT

knothleV, queptin, 4ot raised in the Court beIaw, has be. arpued here, and upui which, asit
'Th'e
V. is Yital to the proscution, we feel, ourselves callAmedy. ed upon to express an opinion, It is, that a carThe term per- poration is not a person vt ithin the meaning of
Oon orpt
, in the act of the act of Congress. If there had been any AetCongress; extends to cor- tied course of decisions on this subject, in cainiporations and
bodies politic. nal cases, we should certainly, in a proseeutiom
pf this nature, yield to such a construction of the
act. But there is no such course of decisions.
The mischief intended to be reachad by the sta*
tute is the same, wbether it respects 'prirat or
corpprak persons. That corporations are, ia
law, fr civil purposes, deemed persos, is unAnd the citation froma 2 I2At.
questionable.
7 6. estahiishes, that they are so deemed
within tle pvtrView of penal statutes. Lord
Coke, thexm in commenting on the statute of
31 Elir. ch, 7. 'empecting the erection 9f cot.
age4, where the word used is, "no person.shall,
4c. say, "this extends ao well to persons paiicand inweporate, as to natural persons what0oevr."1In the case of the King v. Harrinm,
(1 .Loao, 180. 2 East's Pl. Cro. 927. 988.) it
may, perhaps, be matter of some doubt, whether
Oe point was actually decided, by the Couxt. But,
if it was, it mainly tested upon a peculiarity of
sonstruction which grew outof the statute of 31
tRo -ilH. ch. 22, s. 78. which professed to cure
4oubt9 of the. meaning of these words in other
arteoedenh statutes upon similar subjects, leaving
that oix which the indictment was framed un.
touched. Finding, therefore, no authority at

OF THE UNITED STATES.

common law, which overthrows the doctrine of 1826.
are entitled
Lord Coke, we do not think that we
exception upon
constructive
such
any
to engraft
the text of the statute.
Upon the whole, it is to be certified to the
Circuit Court of Virginia, that the decisions of
that Court, upon the points of law arising at the
trial, were correctly decided.
CEERTIFICATE. This cause came on to be
heard on the certificate of division of-opinionis
of the Judges of the Circuit Court, &c. On
consideration whereof, it is ADJUDGED by the
Court, that it be certified to the said Circuit
Court, that the points of lav ruled by the said
Circuit Court at the trial of the cause, and upon
which the sare Court, upon a motion for a, new
trial, were divided in opinion, were, in all respects, correctly decided by the said Court at the
said trial.

[PRAOTIcE.

The

The Vice Consuls of Spain
and Portugal, Libellants.

ANTELOPE.

Explanation of the former decree of the Court in the same cause,
ante, Vol. X. p. 66.
CERTIFICATE.

A mandate having issued to

the Circuit Court for the District of, Georgia, to

