OF THE UNITED STATES;

375
1826.
Walker
V.

Griffins
'Heirs.

[DEVISE.]

WA LKER and

Wife, Appellanb.

against
Heirs, Respondents.

CYRUS GRIFFIN'S

Devise' of the testator's estate, "One fourth part ta be given to xe
families of G. Holloway, W. B. Blackbourn, and A. Bartlett, to
those of their children that my wife shall think proper, but in a
greater proportion to F. P. Holloway, than to any other of-G.
Holloway's children ; to, E. P. Bartlett in a greater proportion than
any of A. Bartlett's children. The balance to be given to thefamilies of C. and J. T. Griflim's children, in equal proportion."
Hld, that the children of C. and J.T. Griffin tookper 8tirpe ,and
notper capita,and that the property devised to them was to be divided into two equal parts, one moiety to be assigned7 to each family.

THIS cause was submitted without argument.

Mr. Chief Justice
opinion of the Court.
This case depends

MARSHALL

delivered the Marh'loth.

entirely on the will of

Francis Peart, deceased.

The testator had de-

vised his estate to the County Court of Woodford,
in trust for purposes therein mentioned; after

which he adds, "Should the County Court of
Woodford not have a right to take into possession this donation of the vithin will, I do request
one fourth part to be given to the famnilies of G.

,Holloway, William B. Blackbourn, and A. Bartlett, to those of their children that my wife may

think proper; but in a greater proportion to Fran-

376

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
%s%.

Walker

V.e

Grin's
Heirs.

cis P. Holloway than any other of G. Holloway,4
children; to Elizabeth P. Bartlett in a greater
proportion than any of A. Bartlett's children.
The balance to be given to the families of Cyrus

and John T. Griffin's children, in equal proportion."
The devise to the County Court of Woodford
was held void; and thereupon the heirs of Cyrus
Griffin, who was dead at the time the will was
made, brought a friendly suit against the heirs of
John T. Griffin, whowas also dead, in the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky, for a division of the property. The Circuit Court decided, that the children were entitled to it in exclusion of the grandchildren, whose parents were
living, and that all the children should take in
eqjual proportion. From this decree the heirs of
John Taylor Griffin have appealed to this Court.
It is apparent, that in the devise of one fourth
to the families of G. Holloway, William B.
Blackbourn, and A. Bartlett, the testator intended to designate the children in exclusion of the
grandchildren, because, he adds, "to those of
their children that my wife may think proper :" obviously *having the children only in his
mind, and not taking grandchildren into view.
When, in the same paragraph, and in the succeeding sentence, he uses the same word in the
devise to the families of Cyrus and John T.
Griffin, he must be supposed to have used it in
the same sense, unless the additional words,
" children to take in equal proportion," should
Aow a change of intention, and that the property

OF THE UNITED STAITES.

was given to the children of the families, and 1826.
not to the families themselves.
Walker
V.
The use of the words, families of Cyrus and Griffin's
John T. Griffin's children, to designate the grand- Heirs..
children of Cyrus and John T. Griffin, would
certainly be an unusual as well as awkward mode
of describing them, and we think there is no necessity for resorting to this construction. The
introduction of these words is to be readily accounted for. In the preceding devise, the testator had directed the children of two of the families to take unequally. In this he intended them
to take equally; and, therefore, makes that provision. ,
The more difficult inquiry is, whether the property is to be divided into two equal parts, the
one to be assigned to the family of Cyrus,.and
the other to the family of John T. Griffin; or is
to be divided equally among all the children of
the two stocks.
In solving this difficulty, it becomes necessary
again to resort to the preceding sentence,.
The families of G. Holloway, Win. P. Blackbourn, and A. Bartlett, take, each family, as asingle
delisee. Whatever may be the number of persons
composing the family, and however unequal may
be their number, they take, collectively, distinct
and equal shares by families; each family constituting an individual devisee. This would be,
we think, the natural import of the words, if un-,
explained by others. But, we think, this construction is strengthened by the :residue of the
VoL. Xr.

48

-78

.1826.
Walker

V.
Griffin's
Heirs.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sentence. The testator adds, " to those of their
that my wife may think Itroper, but in a
children
U
greater proportion to F. P. H. than to any other
of G. H.'s children, to E. P. -B. in a greater proportion than to any of A. B.'s children."
These words show, that the inequalities intended by the testator were between children of
the same family, not between the families. Francis P. Holloway was to have more, not than any of
those who took under the devise, but than any
other of G. Holloway's children. So with respect to. Elizabeth P. Bartlett. In each case the
share of the. family is to be distributed among
the children of the family at the discretion of
the wife ; that discretion being limited so far only
that F.P. H. should have more than any other
of G. H.'s children, and E. P. B. more than any
of A. Bartlett's children.
We think it perfectly clear, that the families
take in equal proportions.
It is reasonable to suppose, that the same intention was preserved with regaid to the families
of Cyrus and John T. Griffin, and the words
must receive the same construction if not controlled by those with which they are connected.
Had the devise been to the families of Cyrus
and John T. Griffin, the natural and obvious
construction -would have been, that the families
took equally. We are, then, to iifquire, what is
the effect of the additional words, " children in
6qua proportioh2' Cyrus Griffin, and John T.
.Giffin, Were both dead, Cyrus leaving four, aid
John' T. Griffin two children, who were living at

OF THE UNITED STATES.

379

the death of the testator, and were the objects of 1826.
this devise. Had he intended them to take
equally, the natural mode of expressing that in- Gr
tention, would have been to devise the property Heirs.
to the children- of Cyrus and John T. Griffin.
They would then have taken 'individually, and
not by families ; but the testator directs them to
take by families. Why,,then, are the words,
"childrdn in equal proportion," added ? The
testator had, in the preceding sentence, devised
a part of the same property to three families,
and had directed that the children of each should
take unequally. Proceeding immediately to the
two families of the Griffins, it was natural, though
not necessary, to express his wish that'the children should take equally. But neither in this,nor in the preceding devise, does he mingle the
children of the different families in one mass.
He speaks of them severally by families. We
are, therefore, of opinion, that the children of
Cyrus and John T. Griffin, take by families, and
that the property devised to them is to be divided
into~two equal parts, one inoiety to be assigned
to each family.
DECRE!.

This cause came on to be heard on

the transcript of the record from the Circuit
Court for the District of Kentucky, &c. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that
the children of Cyrus and John T. Griffin took
the property devised to them in the will of Francis Peart, deceased, by families. This Court is,
therefore, of opinion, that the decree of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
Patterson

v.

Winn;

Circuit Court is erroneous, insomuch as it directs the, said property to be divided among the
said children per capitai and not per stirpes, and
ought to be REVERSE D; and this Court doth so far

the same; and in all things else it is
AFFIRMIED. And the cause is remanded to the
said Circuit Court, that farther proceedings may
be had therein according to law.
REVERSE

[LOCAL LAW.1

DoE, ex dem. PATTERSON, against WINN and

Others.
Ifi general, the validity of a patent for lands can only be impeachedfor causes anterior to its being issued, in a Court of equity. But
where the grant is absolutely void, as where the State has no title,
or the officer has no authority to issue the grant, the validity of the
grant may be contested at law.
The laws of Georgia, in the year 1787, did not prohibit the issuing
of a patent to any one person for more than 1,000 acres of land.
The proviso in the act of Assembly of the 17th of February,
1783, limiting the quantity to that number, is exclusively confined
to head-rights.
Feb. 24th.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Berrien and
Mr. Wilde, for the plaintiff, and by Mr. White,
for the defendant.
Mr. Justice THomPso-N delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This case comes up from the Circuit Court for

Jarch8th. ,

