CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

grant, which interferes with that of the plainHis third possession is contained within
G overneur's tiffs.
Heirs
Rowan's first grant, which interferes with the
Robertson. plaintiff's grant as has already been stated. All
these possessions, being founded on glants, are
protected by.the act of limitations, the provisions
of which are too plain to be misunderstood.
On this point, the opinion of the Circuit Court
is reversed, and a venirefaciasde novo awarded."

[ALimi.

LocAL LAW.]

DoE, ec dem. GOVERNEUR'S Heirs, against Ro.BERTSON

and Others.

An alien may lake real property, by grant, whether from the State or
a private citizen, aind may hold the same until his title is devested
by an inquest of office, or some equivalent proceeding.
The act of Assembly of Virginia of 1779, c. 15. s. S. secured from
jescheat all the interest acquired by aliens in real property, previous
to the issuing of the patent, and left the rights acquired by them
under the patent, to be determined by the general principles of the
common law.
The title of an alien thus acquired by patent in 1734, under the laws
of Virginia, and subsequently confirmed to him by a legislative
act of Kentucky in 1796, and to his heirs, and their grantees, by
an act of the same State in 1799, will overreach a grant made by
Virginia to a citizen in 1785, and defeat the claim 'of all persons
holding under such grant.
These legislative acts were valid, under the compact of 1789, between the States of Virginia and Kentucky.
a Vide agte, Somerville v. Hamilton, Vol. IV. p. 230. Jatton
v. Eaton, Vol. 1. p. 476. M'Iver v. Ragan, Vol. I. p. 25.
M 'lung v. Ross, Vol. V. p. 116. Walker Y. Turner, Vol. IX.
P. 541.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

THIS was an action of ejeetment brought in 1826.
the Circuit Court of Kentucky, in which the les- Governeur's sors of. the plaintiff gave in evidence a .patent Heirs
from the Commonwealth of Virginia, for the Robertsdn.
lands in controversy, lying in Kentucky, to Robertus S. Brantz, then an alien, bearing date
the l1th of October, 1784, founded on a landoffice treasury warrant. They also gave in evidence a certificate of naturalization of the said
Brantz, in the State of Maryland, on the 8th of
November, 1784, and an act-of the legislature of
Kentucky, passed in 1796, entitled, "An act for
the relief of Robertus Samuel Brantz," which
recited that he was an alien when the patent issued ; confirmed his estate as fully as if he had
been a citizen at the time -of the grant, with a
proviso, that nothing in the act should affect the
right or title of any other person or persons, but
only " the right which this Commonwealth may
the said lands." The said Robertus S.
have it,
Brantz died in 1797, leaving a 'son, Johannes
Brantz, an alien, incapable of inheriting the
lands. An act of the legislature of Kentucky,
passed December 9th, 1799, reciting that Robertus S. Brandtz had departed this life indebted to
Isaac and Nicholas Governeur; that Johannes
Brantz, his son and executor, and an alien,
made a power of attorney to the said N. G. to sell
the lands of the said R. S. B., for the payment
of the debt, which sale had been made; therefore, " all the right which the said R. S. B. had,
before, ,andat his death," and the right of the
said Johannes B. was declared to be vested in

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

the said I. and N. Governeur, " as fully as if t",e

n
Governeur's
Heirs

said Robertus S. B. had done in his lifetime, or

V.

Robertson.

as if the said Johannes B. had been a naturalized
citizen when he executed the power of attorney
for the sale and conveyance of the said lands."
The defendants claimed title under a grant
of the Commonwealth of Virginia, dated the
2d of December, 1785, to one Duncan Rose, and
proved a regular derivation of title from him.
The plaintiffs thereupon moved the Court to
instruct the jury, that if they found that the
grants to R. S. Brantz covered the lands in controversy, that the lessors of the plaintiff duly derive title under N. and I. Governeur, and that R.
S. Brantz neither conveyed nor devised those
lands, and left no heirs capable of inheriting
them, and that the defendants were in possession
at the commencement of this suit, that the verdict should be for the plaintiff.
The defendants moved the following i!,structions :
1. That if the jury find, from the evidence,
that Rob6rtus S. Brantz was an alien at the
time when the patent given in evidence was procured by him, that nothing passed to him by said
grant, but that it was void.
2. That if Robertus S. Brantz died, leaving
his son an alien, and having no relations who
were citizens of the United States, or of any of
the States, then, upon his death without heirs,
the title, if ithad passed .out of the Commonwealth by the patent, was immediately vested in
the Commonwealth ; and if the grant to Duncgn

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Rose, from the Commonwealth of Virginia, in- 1826.
cludes the land in controversy, then the -act of oeneur's
Kentucky, granting the land to N. and I. Gover- Heirs
V.
neur, cannot, under the articles of the compact Robertson.
between Virginia and Kentucky, overreach the
grant to Duncan Rose from the Commonwealth
of Virginia; and they ought to find for the defendants.
3. That the plaintiff, showing no title or connexion with Rob~rtus S. Brantz, but through
and by virtue of the act of Kentucky, given in
evidence by plaintiff, such grant from Kentucky
is, by virtue of the 3d and 5th articles of the
compact with Virginia, of inferior dignity, and
inoperative to overreach the grant by the State
of Virginia to Duncan Rose.
4. That the acts of Kentucky of 1796 and 1799,
given in evidence by the plaintiff, being in pari
inatcria,are to be taken together ; that the latter
act is explained by the former, and by operation
of said two acts, and of the said compact between
Virginia and Kentucky, the title of the plaintiff,
as offered in evidence by him, is younger in date,
and inferior in dignity, and cannot overreachthe
grant to Duncan Rose, so far as those grants
conflict.
5. That if they find that the grant to'Duncan
Rose, given in evidence, includes the land held
thereundeit, by the defendants, then the grant of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky, in the act given
in evidence by the plaintiff, is the junior and inferior claim of title, and the jury ought to find
for the defendants.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

336

The Judges of the Circuit Court being divided

1826.

opinion upon the instructions moved, the division was certified to this Court.

in
e
(Goyerneur's..
Heirs
V.

Robertson.

Feb. Md.

The counsel for the plaintiff made the following points:
1. That Robertus S. Brantz, both at common
law, and by the special provisions of the act of
Virginia of 1779, c. 13. s. 3. upon his naturalization, took and held an indefeasible title to the
lands in question, under his grant.
2. That, consequently, the junior grant to
Duncan Rose was void, and conferred no title;
and, of course, could not have estopped Virginia if no s'toaration had taken place; and,
therefore, could not estop Kentucky, by the articles of compact between the two States, from
vesting the title to those lands, by the legislative
act of 1799, in I. and N. Governeur.
The .defendants' counsel insisted,
1. That R. S. Brantz being an alien when
the grant of Virginia issued to him, the title did
not pass out of the Commonwealth ; therefore,
the grant to Duncan Rose must be considered as
the prior legal title.
2. That under the compact of 1789, between
Virginia and Kentucky, the legislative acts of
Kentucky of 1796 and 1799, under which the
plaintiff claims, cannot overreach the prior grant
from Virginia to Rose.
Mr. Sawmpson.tbrthe plaintiff, argued. (1.) That

OF THE UNITED STATES.

it had been conclusively settled by a uniform se-

1826.

ries of decisions in this Court, that an alien can

Govern'eur's

take, and hold, real property, either by grant or
devise, until office found.a The grantee of the
State takes by purchase as much as a private
grantee.' In Craig v. Radfordo the alienage
of a grantee from the State was presented distinctly as a positive- bar to his taking, but the
Court determined the grant to be good, and the
decision of that point was inevitably involved in
the determination of the cause. And there was
no reason, either of policy or law, for making a
distinction between a public and a private grant.
The title of the government being- devested by
the grant, which is matter of record, it could not
be revested again but by an inquest of office, by
which alone the fact of alienage can be determined. Every person resident in the country is
presumed to be a citizen until the contrary is
shown by a judicial proceedingd The government, having once invested its grantee with a
title, cannot deprive him of it but in due course
of law; and the inquest of office is the appropriate
process, where the title to lands is in controversy.
But, it might be contended, that the grant of the
State io an alien is absolutely void, and not voidaa Fairfax v. Hunter, 7 Cranch'sRep. 603. Craig v. Radford,
3 Wheat. Rep. 594. Craig v. Leslie, 3 Wheat. Rep. 563. Orr
v. Hodgson, 4 Wheat. Rep. 453.
b Co. Litt. 18 b.
c 3 Wheat. Rep. 594.
d I Bac. Abr. Alien. C. 133.
VOL, XI
42

Heirs
Robertson.

CASES IN -THE SUPREME COURi

1826.
e
Governleur'$
Heirs
Robertson.

ble merely; and a passage in Vin. Abr. might.
perhaps, be relied on for that purpose. But this
wbuld be found to be a mere insulated dictum,
unsupported by any other authority, or by any
adjudged case. In Page's casea it was "resolved, that in the case of au alieu," &c. " the
inheritance, or freehold of the land, is not vested
in the king till office found under the great seal;
for that is an office of intitling." The grants of
the king are not void, unless the defect for which
they are sought to be avoided appear on the
face of the grant. So, here, the fact of alienage not appearing in the grant to B., is sufficient
to show that it was not void. If it were contended that an alien could not take, because he
could not hold, the answer would be, that he
shall take and hold, until it shall appear, in the
manner the law requires, that he cannot hold.
The subsequent naturalization of R. S. Brantz
had a retrospective effect, and confirmed and
rendered valid his title, which was before subject
to be defeated by an inquest of office.' So,
also, the act of 1796 would have ,had the effect
of confirming his titlP, even if he had never
been naturalized. But his naturalization in Maryland was sufficient to give him all the privileges of a citiien in Kentucky, and, among
others, that of holding lands, under the articles
of confederation before the establishment of the
present constitution. And, even supposing his
a 5 Co. Rep. 52.
h 2 B1.Comm. 250

1 Johns. Cas. 1,,

OF IHE UNITED STATES.

339

title as an alien to be defective at common law, 1826.
r
that defect was completely cured by the statute G
Governeur's
Heirs
of Virginia of 1779, c. 13. s. 3. which provides,
that " All persons,- as well foreigners as others, lHobertson.
shall have a right to assign or transfer warrants,
or certificates of survey for lands; and any foreigner purchasing lands, may locate and have
the same surveyed, and after returning the certificate of survey to the land office, shall be allowed the term of eighteen months, either to become
a citizen, or to transfer his right in such certificate of survey to some citizen of this, or any
other of the United States of America."
2. As to the defendant's claim under a junior
grant, it must be regarded as entirely void, since
the State of Virginia had already parted with all
its title .to Brantz, who (it had already been
shown) was capable of taking and holding until office found. The grant to Rose was, therefore, absolutely void; the State having no title to
the thing granted.a If, then, the junior grant
was void, it could not be contended, that if any
title was again cast upon the Commonwealth by
the death of R. S. Brantz, without heirs capable of inheriting, it enured to the benefit of
the defendant,.and operated as a retroactive confirmation of his title. His patent only authorized him to survey waste and unappropriated
lands; he undertook to find lands of that dea Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 5 Whteat. Rep. 303. Alton Wood's
case, I Co. Rep. 5o. Dyer, 77. Green v. Watkins, 7 Wheat.
Tep. 27.

340

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

scription ; and it is not for him to say that he mis-

1826.

informed the government, and having surveyed
not vacant, but lands already appropriated, had
Heirs
V.
Robertson. thereby entitled himself to-be considered a purchaser without notice a There is a difference,in this respect, between grants by the government,
The grantee
and mere private conveyances.'
having failed to comply with the condition of the
grant, the State could not be bound by it, or
estopped by it from again asserting dominion
over the lands, and re-granting them to another.
The grantee takes an immediate title, -or none at
all. ° Even a grant made expressly to commence in futhuro would be void.,

u
Governeur's

Mr. Bibb, for the defendant, argued, (1.) That
R. S. Brantz, being an alien when the original
grant from the State issued to him, took nothing
thereby, but the title remained in the government.
He admitted the general rule, that an alien may
take by purchase, and hold until office found;
but he insisted that the principle applied only
Ito a private grant or devise by a citizen. 'At
common law, a grant from the sovereign to an
alien passes no title.c The grant of lands to an
alien by the king, operates nothing; it shall not
a 5 Crancli'sRep. 253.
b Legat's case, 10 Co. Rep. 1]3.

Alton Wood's case, I Co.
Rep. 51.
c Noy's Mai. tO. 4 Co. Rep. 61. Flowd. 432. 10 Co. Rep.
62.
d Berwik's case, 5 Jo. Rep. 94.
e T'h Abr. tit.PVe ogative, (G. 6. 2.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

make him a denizen, so that he may take.a

A

1826.

grant from a private citizen to an alien takes

Governeur's

effect by act of the parties; a grant from the
government takes effect by act of law. An alien
may take by purchase from an individual, because
it is for the benefit of the government that he
should be allowed to take, in order that the title
may pass to the government by escheat. But if
the same effect were allowed to a grant from
the government to an alien, it would be for the
mere vain ptirpose of devesting the title of the

Heirs

government, and vesting it in a party incapable

of holding it, in order to revest the very same
title, by means of an inquest of office. Such a
proceeding

'

ould be contrary to all the analogies

of the law. An alien cannot take by act of law.
An alien cannot, therefore, take as heir, or tenant in dower, or by the curtesy.b The reason
why an alien cannot take in this manner is, because the law does nothing in vain; and it will
not, therefore, confer by grant an estate on the
alien which he cannot hold, for the nugatory purpose of taking it back again by an inquest of
office. This is the reason assigned by Lord
Chief Baron Hale, and by Mr. Chancellor Kent.:
The incapacity of ali6ns to take, is founded on
a

2 Bl. Comm. 351. Tucker's ed. 844.
b Calvin's case, 7 Co. Rep. 25. Co. Litt. 2 b. 3. a. 31. a.
Plowd. 229. $ BL Comm. 252.' Tucker's ed. 249. Hunter v.
Fairfax, 7 Cranch's Rep. .619. Orr v. Hodgson, 4 Whedt. Rep.
460.
c Collingwoud v. Pace, 1 Ventr. Rep. 417. Mooers v. White,
6 Johns. Ch. Rep. 365.

Robertson.

342

CASES IN THE SUPREME, COURT

1826.

reasons of national or civil polity, rather than on
e
principlcs strictly feudal.Governeur's
Heirs
The principles and policy of the common law
V.
Robertson. in this respect, have not been changed by the
local laws of Virginia. The act of 1779, c. 13.
under which the grant to Brantz purports to
have been issued, manifests clearly the legislative intention not to permit aliens to take by
grant, since it provides that they may purchase
warrants, assign them, have them located and
surveyed, return the plats and certificates to the
Register's office, and then shall be allowed the
term of eighteen months either to become citizens, " or to transfer such plat, and certificate
of survey, to some citizen of this, or any other
of the United States of America." Expressio
unius est exclusio alterius : and this enumeration
of privileges to aliens, all of which are in derogation of the common law, excludes that of obtaining a grant to himself whilst he continues an
alien. Brantz, then, having procured this grant
to himself whilst an alien, contrary both to the
common and statute law, as well as the rules of
the land office, the act of the Register, and of
the Governor, in so issuing the letters patent,
was unauthorized, and, as such, was absolutely
void-' All the requisite- to a valid grant were
wanting in this case.c The public officers were
d 1 B1. Comm. 392. 2 Bi. Comm. 258. 2 Bi. Comm. 278.
b King v. Clarke, Freeman's Re. -I72
2 Bt Comm. 352.
Earl of Devonshire's case, 11 Co. Rep. 90. Colt v. Glover,
1 Roll. Rep. 451.

c Shep. Touchst. 229.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

restrained and disabled from granting to an 1q26.
alien ; he was incapable of receiving it; the

'
r
Gbverneur's

grant was not made in the order and manner re- Heirs
quired by law. The title of the public demesne Robertson.
lands in England is vested in "the crown.; the
king has, by the constitution, the sole power of
granting them. But the king cannot, by his
grant to an alien, render him capable of taking.
In Virginia the title was in the people, or Commonwealth; not in the Governor, Register, or
other public officer. They could only grant the
land in pursuance of the express provisions of
law.
2. That, under the compact of 1789, the legislative acts of Kentucky of 1796 and 1799, under
which the plaintiff claims, cannot overreach the
priol' grant from Virginia to Rose. Supposing
that Rose's was not the prior legal title, in consequence of the alienage of Brantz when he obtained his grant, yet Rose, under his warrant,
survey, and grant, had a vested interest in the
land by the laves of Virginia, originating before
the grant to Brantz. The compact provides,
(art. 3. s. 7.) "that all private rights and interests of land, within the said district, derived
from the laws of Virginia, prior to such operation, shall remain valid and secure under the
laws of the proposed State, and shall be determined by ,the laws now existing in this State."
*Art. 5. s. 9. provides,." That no grant, 6f land,

or land warrant, to be issued by the proposed
State, shall interfere with any Warrant heretofore issued from the ldnd office of Virginia.

344

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826'. which shall be located on land within the said
r
Governeur's

District, on or before the first day of Septem-

Heirs
V.

ber, 1791." So that the stipulations of the compact of 1789, secure all vested as well as contingent claims and titles to land, and provide for
their determination by the then existing laws of
Virginia. By the laws of that State then in
force, the title of Brantz (supposing him to have
had any) was cast upon the Commonwealth, by
his death without heirs capable of taking by
descent.a The interest of Rose under his patent became valid and secure by the third article
of-the compact, and, under the fifth article, it
could not be interfered with by any grant from
the State of Kentucky.' Every political society
or government is bound by the ties of justice and
morality, and to the observance of good faith in
its contracts with individuals. The grant of
1785 to Rose, was a contract between the Wtate
of Virginia and the grantee." If a private individual sells land without title, and subsequently
acquires a title, it enures to the benefit of his
grantee.d A vendor, purchasing in an outstanding title, cannot use it against his vendee. The
same rules which are just and equitable as beween individuals, are binding on governments.

Robertson.

a Hunter v. Fairfax, 7 Cianch's Rep. 603. Orr v. Hodgson,
WYheat, Rep. 460.. Mooers v. White, 6 Johns. Ch. Rep. 365.
b Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. Rep. 1. 1 Marsh. Kentuck.
,p. 199. 3 Alarsh. Rep. 219. 1 Monr. Kentuck Rep. 60.
LitteL Rep. 364.
c Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Granch'sRep. 87.
d Barr v. GratZ; 4 Wheat. Rep. 222.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

345

The legal maxim, that the king, or the common- 1826.
wealth, can do no wrong, implies the highest de- Governeur's
gree of moral excellence in the collective body Heirs
V.
of society, and those who represent it. Every Robertson.
prerogative being created for the benefit of the
citizen, none of the powers of the government
can be exerted to his prejudice.a Hence the
maxims, that the prerogative of the king is no
warrant to do wrong; the king is estopped, and
by his prerogative can do no wrong." Virginia,
therefore, could not violate the obligation of her
contract with Rose, by using the interest of
Brantz when it lapsed in 1797, by his death,
without heirs capable of inheriting. A legislative act of Virginia, (had she retained her sovereignty over the territory of Kentucky,) passed
in 1799, to grant the land to Governeur, without
regard to. the vested interest of Rose, and those
claiming under his grant, would have been a law
impairing the obligation of contracts within the
prohibition in the .constitution of the United
.States. Such a law, made by Kentucky, is
equally prohibited by her treaty -with Virginia.
But the acts of 1796 and 1799, (which, being in
.pari materia,are to be construed together,) do
not constitute such a law. The former act confirms the title of Brantz, with the proviso, " that
nothing in the said act should affect the right or
title of any other person or persons." The suba Magdalen College case, 11 Co. Rep. 72.
b Plowd.Rep. 246-248, 249.
VOL XI.

44

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

sequent act transfers the estate to Governeur, as

'-r*-u'
Governeur's Brantz held it, subject .to the proviso.

Heirs
Robertson.

It was

not necessary, in the act of 1799, to repeat the
proviso in that of 1796, It was sufficient to do
what the act does, transfer the estate, after thp
death of Brantz, to Governeur, " as if the said
Brantz had done (it) in his lifetime." This construction makes the acts consistent with good
faith, with the compact with Virginia, and with
the eternal principles of justice.
But, it had been argued, that the king's grants
are not void, unless the fact of alienage appears
on the face of the grant itself. It had, at the
same time, been asserted, that Rose's grant was
absolutely void, although the fact of the patent
previously issued for the same land, does not appear on the face of his grant, but is to be proved
by other evidence. But, when the authorities
speak of a grant as void, all that is meant is,
that it shall be held inoperative, and of no legal
effect, whenever.the facts which invalidate it shall
appear. Whenever, by the pleadings between
other parties, the facts show the king's title,
judgment shall be given for. him, although he is
not a party:a A great variety of cases might be
mentioned, where a resort to evidence in pais
would be necessary to deermine the validity of
the grant. That the grant to Rose was not void,
in the sense supposed, but that it was evidence
of a contract between Virginia and the grantefc
a Plowd. Rep. 24.3,

347

OF THE UNITED STATES,

that it passed a vested interest capable of being 1826.
rneur's
transmitted from one to another by deed or will;
that such interests of the junior patentee are Heirs
V.

treated as-legal, and not mere equitable interests, obcrvtson.
and still less as non-entities, a number of cases
from the local decisions were cited.a
As to the case of .Elmendorfv. Carmichael,b
which had been cited as determining the questions in this cause; it could have no weight as authority in this Court, because it did not decide
the point as to the construction of the compact
of 1789; a subject peculiarly of federal jurisdiction, which was involved in several other cases,
all of which would be brought before this Court
for revision. The opinions, therefore, of the
State Judges, in that case, could be entitled to
no more respect than the judgments of any tribunal, State or national, which this Court might
be called on to revise on error.
The case of Craig v. .Radford had been
cited as determining the question, that an alien
can take by direct grant from the government.
But, it would be found, upon examination, that
Sutherland, under whom the respondent claimed
in that case, was entitled to a bounty in land
under the proclamation of 1783, for military services during the preceding war, and that he obtained his warrant and survey in 1774, at which
time he was not an alien. He did not obtain a
a I Marsh. Kentuck. Rep. 525. 3 Bibb's Rep. 535. 4 Bibb's
Rep. 225. 1 Mlonr. Rep. 48. 189. 138.
b 3 Littel. Rep. 473.
c 3 arheat: Rep. 594.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

patent until 1788, and it is not, therefore, of this

n
Governeur's

that the Court speak, when they say that he took

Heirs
V.

the estate " during the war," and was not devested by any act of Virginia before the treaty of
1794, by which his title was confirmed. But the
Court meant to refer to the act of Virginia of
1779, (passed during the war,) by which the legislature declared, that the surveys under the
proclamation of 1763 were valid. All the other
cases cited to show that an alien can take by
grant, and hold, until office found, are cases of
grants, or devises, from private individuals to an
alien. The distinction between such conveyances and grants 'from the crown, is to be found
in all the authorities, from the year books down
to the latest elementary writers.

Robertson.

.MIarch I7.

Mr. Justice JoHNso.N delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This cause comes up from the Circuit Court
of Kentucky, upon a difference of opinion certified from that Court.
The case was this: Robertus S. Brantz, through
whom the plaintiffs make .title, obtained, on the
11th of October, 1784, two grants from the
Commonwealth of Virginia, comprising, together, ten thousand acres of land lying in Kentucky.
OneDuncan Rose, through whom the defendants make title, obtained a similar grant, of the
date of December 2d, 1785, covering a part of
the same land.
Robertus Brantz, at the date of his patent,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

349.

was analien, but became naturalized in Mary- 1826.
land on the 8th of November, 1784,'less than Governieur's
one month after the date of his patent, and near Heirs
a year before that of the defendant was obtained. Robertson.
Some doubts appear to have been raised on
the validity of Brantz's patent at an early period, and, in the year 1796, the legislature of
Kentucky passed an act, reciting that B. was an
alien when the patent issued, and affirming his
estate as against the rights of the Commonwealth, leaving it to operate as to all other persons as if that act had not passed.
B. died in 1797, leaving a son, J. B., an alien,
incapable of inheriting, and owing debts to a
considerable amount to the Governeurs. The
son, unaware of his disability, executed a letter
of attorney, under which the land was sold, and
the purchasers, the Governeurs, subsequently
discovering this defect, obtained another act from
that State affirming their estate.
And this makes out the plaintiffs' title.
The defendant's title is regularly deduced
through the paterit to Duncan Rose.
The record presents, first, a general instruction prayed for in behalf of the plaintiffs on their
right to recover, And of this there can be no
question independently of the points made in the
instructions moved for by the defendant, having
regard to the effects, .st. of his alien character;
2d. that of his son; and, 3d. of the compact
between Virginia and Kentucky on the rights of
the parties.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
G
Governeur's
Heirs
V.

Robertson.

These will. be considered in their own language, and in their order. - The first is,
"That if the jury find that R. S. B. was an

alien at the time when the patents given in evidence-were procured by him, nothing passed to
him by the said patent, but that it was void."
Although this, as well as the subsequent
prayers of the defendant, purport to present distinct propositions, it will be unavoidable that they
should be considered in connexion with each
other, and with reference to the general prayer
of the plaintiff for a charge in his favour. The
defendant's object in propounding them, is to repel the prayer of the plaintiff, and to obiain a
charge that the jury should find in his favour.
They are introduced, in fact, as grounds upon
which the prayer of the plaintiff should be rejected.
And, in this view of the subject, the proposition stated draws after it the consideration of
another, to wit: Whether, although the patent
to Brantz should be pronounced void, in consideration of his incapacity to take at the time of
its emanation, his subsequent naturalization did
not relate back so as to obviate every consequence of this alien disability.
On this subject of relation, the authorities are
so ancient, so uniform and universal, that nothing
can raise a dpubt that it has a material bearing
on this cause, but the question whether naturalization in Maryland 'was equivalent to naturalization in Kentucky. To this the articles of Confederation furnish an affirmative answer, and the
-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

351

defendant has not made it a question. Nor, in- 1826.
deed, has he made a question on the subject of Governeur's
relation back; yet it is not easy to see how he Heirs
"V.
could claim the benefit of an affirmative answer Robertson.
on the question he has raised, without first extricating his cause from the effects of the subsequent naturalization, upon the rights derived to
Brantz through his patent.
The question argued, and intended to be ex- Agrantofland
to an alien, by
elusively presented here, is, whether a patent for the State, is
not absolutely
land to an alien, be not an absolute nullity,
void.
The argument is, that. it was so at common
law, and that the Virginia land laws, in some of
their provisions, affirm the common law on this
subject.
We think, the doctrine of the defendant is not
to be. sustained on either ground.
It is true, Sir William Blackstone has express- Examination
°
on
doctrin
ed himself on this subject with less than his-this
subject.
usual precision and circumspection; but, whe- t
ther the context be considered, or his authorities
examined, we"shall find that this doctrine cannot
be maintained. 'The passage relied on is found
in his second volume, (p. 347, 348. of Christian,)
in these words, " If the king grants lands to an'
alien, it operates' nothing." But it,
would be
doing injustice to the writer not to weigh his
meaning by the words preceding and following
this sentence. His language is this, ".But the
king's grant shall not enure to any other intent
than. that which is precisely expressed in the
grant. As, if he grants laids to an alien, it ope.rates nothing; for such grant shall not also

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.
e
Governeur's

Heirs
V.

enure to make him a denizen, that so he may be
capable of taking by grant."

And the authority

referred to is Brooke's Abr. Patent, 62. and

Robertson. Finch's Law, 110.

(It ought to be 111.)

If we could admit that this learned writer
could have committed so egregious a blunder as
to suppose that an alien must be made denizen
before he could take by grant, as a general proposition, he might stand charged with having
greatly transcended his authorities. But when
it is consideredl, that the effect of an alien's being
made denizen, is not to enable him to take
lands, but to enable him to hold them against
the king, we at once see, that his language
is to be limited to the proposition laid down
in the previous sentence, to wit: that the
king's grants shall not enure to the double intent,
when made to an alien, of vesting in him the
thing granted, and then, by implication, constituting him a denizen, so as to enable him to
hold an indefeasible estate.
Ancient au- In the case referred to as abridged by Brooke,
thorities of the
common law. the latter proposition alone is laid down; and
the case in the Year Books, which the author
cites, affirms nothing more. This was Bagot's
case, (7 Edw. IV. p. 29.) which appears to have
occasioned a vast deal of discussion for several
terms inthe British Courts, and in which Bagot,
and another grantee of an office by the crown,
brought assize, and the defendant pleaded, as to
Bagot, alien nee. In that cause there was no
office found, and the question on this part of the
case distinctly was,. whether the grant did not
both vest the right to the office, and create a c,&-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1353

pacity to maintain assize to recover it. So, in a 1826.
case in 4 Leon. 82. the same question was raised, Governeur's
where there had been an inquest of office; and HoIrs
in both, the decision distinctly was, that the Robevrtson.
king's grant did not enure to an intent not expressed distinctly as its object; or, in other
words, to a double intent, one direct, the other
incidental. In the latter case, the alien's right
had been affirmed by a patent from the queen,
and the point argued was, that the right of the
party was piotected by the act of the queen
against the effect of the office found. But, in
both these cases, the decision was no more than
this, that the act of the crown did not incidentally make the party a denizen; and while an
alien, he could not be enabled, by any act of the
crown, to exercise rights which appertained only
to denizens, or to persons naturalized, or natural
born subjects.
The other authority to which Blackstone refers, to wit, Finch, imports no more than that,
an alien shall not maintain an'aztion' real or
mixed, but has no direct bearing upon the doctrine for which it seems to have been cited by
the author.
The words, in the passage in Blackstone, more
immediately relied on by the. defendant, to wit,
" If he grants to an alien, it operates nothing,"
are obviously taken from another passage in
Brooke's Abr. Patent, 44. which 'article gives
those words as a dictum of Keble,. one of the
Judges. And by referring to the authority in
V01. X1.

45

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

11826.

the Year Book, on which the author relies, to
Govetneu'r's
G
wit , 9Hen. VII." 3. 'the dictum is there found atHeirs
tributed. to Keble'. But, in that case, as in
V.argued
than
more
Robertson. Ba'ot's case, there is
that the king's grant shall n6t enure to the double
purpose. And the observation of Keble is only
made by way of illustration, accompanied by several others of a similar character, such as that
a grant of land to a felon shall not operate as a
pardon; or a grant to a company not corporate,
carry with it a grant of incorporation.
It is clear, therefore, that this doctrine has no
sufficient sanction in authority; and it will be
found 6qually unsupported by principle or analogy.
The general rule is positively against it, for
the books; old and new, uniformly represent the
king as a competent grantor in all cases in which
an individual may grant, and any person in
esse, and not civiliter mortuus, as a competent
grantee. Femes covert, infants, aliens, persons
attainted of treason or felony, clerks, convicts,
and many others, are expressly '(numerated as
competent grantees. (Perkins, trant, 47, 48.
51. &c. Comyn's Dig. r'ant, B. 1.) It beh6oves those, therefore, who would except aliens,
when the immediate object of the king's grant,
.to maintain the exception.
- It is argued, that there is an analogy between
this case and that of the heir, or the widow, or
the husband, alien; no one of whom can take,
but the king shall enter upon them without office
found. Whereas, an alien -maytake by purchase,

OF -THE, UNITED STATES.

355

aid hold untii devested by office found. It is 1826.
argued, that the reason usually*assigned
for this Governeur'C)"
distinction, to wit, ,7Nil frustraggit lex," may, Heirs
with the same correctness, be' applied to the Rolertson.
case of a grant by the king to an alien, as to one
taking by descent, dower, or curtesy: That the
alien only takes from the king to return the subject of the grant back again to the king by escheat. But, this reasoning obviously assumes
as law the very, principle it is introduced to support; since, unless the grant be void, it cannot
be predicated of it that it was executed in vain.
It is also inconsistent with a known and familiar
principle in law, and one lying at the very root
of the distinction between taking by purchase
and taking by descent. It implies, in fact, a repugnancy in language. Since the very reason of
the distinction between aliens taking by purchase 5 and by descent, ig, that one takes by
deed, the other by act of law; whereas a grantee
cx vi termini, takes by deed, and not by act of
law. If there is any. view of the subject in
which an alien, taking under grant, may be considered as taking by operation of law, it is because the grant issues, and takes effect, under a law of the State. But this is by no means
the sense of the rule, since attaching to it this
idea would be to declhre the legislative power of
the State incompetent to vest in an alien even a
defeasible estate.
That an alien can take by deed, and can hold
until office found, must now be regarded as a
positive rale,of law, so well established, that the

(GASES IN THE SUREME COURT

1826.

reason of the rule is little more than a subject for

'the
Governeur's
Heirs
v.
R~obertson.

antiquary.

It no doubt owes its present au-

thority, if not its origin, to a regard to the peace
of society, and a desire to protect the individual

from arbitrary aggression. Hence itis usually
said, that it has regard to the sofemnity of the
by livery of seisin, which ought not to be' devested
hold,,,unil of-without some corresponding solemnity. But
ce foud.
there is one reason assigned by a very judicious
compiler, which, from its good sense and applicability to the nature of our government, makes
it proper to introduce it here. I copy it from Bacon, not having had leisure to examine the authority which he cites for it. " Every person," says
he, " is supposed a natural born subject, that is
resident in the kingdom, and that owes a local
allegiance to the king, till the contrary be found
by office." This reason, it will be perceived, applies with double force to the resident who has
acquired of the sovereign himself, whether by
purchase or by favour, a grant of freehold.
of
It remains to examine the effect of the Virginia
The laws
SVirginia
pre-,
Those laws
vious to he laws upon grants made to aliens.
im
of
compact
1789, respect- provie that aliens may purchase warrants for
ing the issuig land, and pass them throuh all the stages neces~ sae
te
sru~
of grants to
Well esta-

blshed
rule
that an alien
tay
take and
pup-chase,

aliens.

sary to obtain a patent, and may exercise every

power over the inchoate interest thus acquired,
in the same manner with citizens, and after returning the plat and survey to the Register's
office, shall be allowed eighteen months to become a citizen, or transfer their interests to those
who are citizens.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

357

These provisions, it is contended, import a 1826.
prohibition to issue a grant to an alien.
Governeur's
But we think the inference by no means un- Heirs
avoidable'; and, in addition to the general and Rbvertson.
strong objections to raising an enactment by in-ference, consider it as unsupported either by the
policy or the provision of the act.
It is well known that the purchaser of a war'rant, under the laws of Virginia, acquired a beneficial interest in the soil, that the survey 16cated that interest upon a particular portion of
soil by metes and bounds, and the interest thus
acquired was devisable, assignable, descendible,
and wanted, in fact, nothing but a mere formality to give it all the attributes of a freehold:
Hence a doubt arose, not whether an alien could
acquire an interest under a warrant and survey,
but whether that interest might not be subjeqt to
escheat. The object of the law was to encourage aliens to purchase, and to settle the country ;
and all its provisions on this subject were intend,ed to enlarge his rights,, not to restrict them.
Aliens arriving in the country, could not immediately be naturalized, but they might, immediately enter upon -those arrangements for establishing themselves when naturalized, .which
were necessary to precede a grant. HIence, the
only' true construction of' the Virginia hiw is,
that as to all the interest acquired in land previous to grant, it'was intended to enlarge their
rights, and secure'them from escheat; while, a's,
to the rights which they might acquire by patent, they were to be left under the ordinary

CASES JN THE SUPREME COURT

1826. alien disabilities, whatever those were, which the
law imposed.
•
Governeurns
The Virginia act, therefore, has no influence
Heirs
V
Robertson. upon the rights of the parties in this cause.
The object of the next four prayers for instrucThe act o
Kentucky otion in behalf of the defendant, is, to maintain
1799, confirmIng
the titi ofthe proposition, that the act of Kentucky of 1799,
Brantz.
which confirmed the interest of the purchasers
under the letter of attorney of the son of Brantz,
was in derogation of the rights of Duncan Rose,
the subsequent grantee.
The argument is, that on the deceaseof the
Whether the
junior patent
attached t othe fathek, without an heir that could take, the land
land, upon the-.
,
.
reverted to the State, and the juofincontroversy
decease
Brantz withouthirspa-ior patent then fastened-upon it in the ordinary
ble of taking. manrner in which it attaches to the soil when a
prior grant is removed from before it. That the
act of 1799 was nothing more than a junior grant
for the same land, and a grant which the State
was estopped from making to the prejudice of
the prior patentee, as well upon general principles, as under the provisions of the compact between the two State2.
It is obvious, that in considering this argument,
the Court cannot place the defendant on more
favourable ground than by substituting Vifginia
for Kentucky, and allowing him all the rights that
he might have set up dgainst the former State.
And it is equally -obvious, that to admit of the
iight set up in .favour of the junior patent's attaching as a patent upon the escheat, it must be
affirmed that escheated land was liable to be taken
up by patent; whereas the act authorizes pa-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

359

tents to issue upon waste and unappropriated
lands exclusively, and not-upon escheated property. And so it has been settled by adjudica-

ions both in Kentucky and Virginia.

(Elmen-

dorf v. Carmichael, 3 Littel. Rep. 484.)
It is further obvious, that as to the claim set
up by the defendant on the ground of moral
right and estoppel, the Court will concede much
more than he has a right to assume, if it allows
him the benefit of his argument to the wholeextent in which it may be applied to the rights and
obligations of individuals., Assuming, argumenti gratia,that the State could not supersede
the right of the defendant derived under his patent, in any case in which an individual would be
estopped, or might be decreed to convey: But
it is only on the ground of fraud or contract,
that the law acts upon individuals in either of the
supposed cases. Fraud is not imptitable to a
government; but if it were, where is there scope.
found*for the imputation of it in the relation between a State and the patentee of its vacant
lands ? In selling the warrant, the State enters
into contract no farther than that the purchaser
shall have that quantity of vacant land if he can
find it. And when the patent-issues, it iq to the
patentee, if to ahy one, that the fraud is imputable, if the land be not vacant. The State never
intends to grant the lands of another; and where
the grantee is ignorant of the previous patent,
the maxim, caveat emptor, is emphatically applicable to this species of contract.
But to what result would this doctrine lead.

1826.
Govel'neur"s

Heirs
Robertson.

360

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

us ? A junior grant is to be vested with the at,

Governeur's
1-n- '

tribute of hanging over a valid and indefeasible

Heirs

appropriation of soil, waiting to vest upon the
occurrence of the casualty of an escheat or an
indefinite failure of heirs ? This may not happen in a hundred years; it may not occur upon
one life as in this case, but may occur after the
lapse of one hundred lives. It is impossible
that such a claim can be countenanced. Neither
principle nor. policy sustains it. And, in fact,
the decision upon'the first ground is fatal to the
cause of the defendant upon the last; for, upon
no principle but the assumed nullity of the patent to Brantz, could any contract be imputed to
the State to make good the junior patent, under
which the defendant deduces his title. In t. at
case, the land would still have remained vacadt
land, and, as such, the junior patent would, of
course, have taken effect' upon it as a patent, and
by the immediate opef'ation of the land law,
without reference to the supposed incidental
rights here set up.
So far this Court has
ionsidered the cause as
one of a new impression; but, on examining the
adjudications quoted, they are satisfied, that in
every point material to the plaintiffs, the case
has been solemnly adjudicated in the Courts of
Kentucky.
They. will, therefore, direct an opinion to be
certified in favoui of the plaintiff.

Robertson.

