192

CASES IN THE bUPRF EM COURT

1826.
Otis
V.

Walter.

[CONSTRUCTION OF

Plaintiffin Error,
against
WALTER, Defendant in Error.
OTIS,

Under the embargo act of the 25th of April, 1808, c. 170. [lxvi.] s,
11. the collector is protected in the honest exercise of his discretion
in detaining the vessel, and securing both vessel and cargo, until
an actual termination of the voyage.
'Whether the voyage has terininated,is a question of fact, and if the
voyage be colourablj, but not really terminated, the coijector may
detain the vessel, if he has honest suspicions.

ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of
the State of Massachusetts. This is the same
cause which was formerly before this Cotut.a
Feb. 9th.

It was argued at this term by the Attorney
Generaland Mr. Blake, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. Webster and Mr. Read, fpr the defendant in error.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This cause is brought up, by writ of error, from
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts,
for the purpose of reviewing a judgment of that
Court, given in favour of the defendant here,
upon an action of tro-,i"instituted in that State,

Feb. 19lh. ,

a Vtide ante, S. C. Vol. II. p. 18.

Vol. VI. p. 585.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to recover damages for the alleged conversion of 1826.
sundry articles composing the cargo of the sloop 'O'Otis '
Ten Sisters. Otis, in the capacity of collector of
v.
Walter.
1808,
year
the
in
had,
Barnstable,
of
the District
seized and detained the vessel and cargo under
the provisions of the embargo act of the 25th of
April in that year.
The general
'This is the third time that this cause has been question
of
law
having
brought to the notice of this Court. In the two been
settled
former instances, it came up upon bills of excep- vhen this case
was fobrmerly
tions, and in both the decisions of that Courtbefoe
the
. .
Court, (ante
were reversed, and a venire
facias de• no Vol.VI.p.
vol.
p.
Is.
" •-583.)
awarded.

In the present instance, a special ver-

be

question

to be dediet has been taken, and, as the law was settled now
termined is,
in the two former decisions, that until the termi- voyagWhether
badt
termination of the voyage the collector was protected realy
nated.
in the honest exercise of an unlimited discretion
in detaining the vessel, and, by necessary consequence, in resorting to the ordinary and necessary means of securing and preserving both vessel and cargo, this verdict seems to be drawn up
with a view to bring up the single question, whether, in the sense of the laws-of Congress, and
of the decisions of this Court, this voyage was
not, in effect, terminated before the seizure.
The special verdict finds, that tle vessel cleared out "for the port of Yarmouth." It is true,
the captain, in the oath attached to his manifest,
makes use of the mere indefinite expression
" bound for Yarmouth." But, when we come to
examine the sense in which he made this oath,
by referring to his instructions, which are also

VOL. XT.

25

194

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

" -.Otis.7'
V.
Walter.

found by the- verdict, we find it restricted to a
voyage to Bass river, where it was to terminate
by landing his cargo, and storing it in a particular warehouse. This, then, was the point of his
destination, call it port, harbour, place, or what
we will. And, as the collector uses the definite,
instead of the indefinite article, before port, in
the clearance, the fair inference is, that the clearance vas for Ba 3s river, underI the designation
of " the port of Yarmouth."
We are far, however, from intending to intimate, that if the captain's oath as to his destination could not be modified and explained by reference to his instructions, it might be permitted
to enlarge the meaning of the word port as used
in the clearance, so as to embrace the township
of Yarmouth. In those times, when it behooved
every public offleez tc be on the alert against the
multiplied evasions of the system of that day, it
is not to be supl)o;;ed, that the definite language
of the clearance was adopted without an object.
The captain appears to have acted as if he had
received a clearance on a general voyage to Yarmouth, whereas, it is obvious, that 'the collector
of Ipswich acted under a sense of the impropriety of giving a clearance that would leave the terminus of the voyage so void of precision. We
consider the definite article as having been used
for a definite purpose, and to preclude t'he general privilege of sailing to any point in the town
or township of Yarmouth, at which a landing
might have been effected.
It is obvious, indeed, from the whole tenor of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the verdict, that the mouth of Bass river is understood more emphatically to be the port of
Yarmouth than any other place in the township
of Yirmouth.

1826.
Otis

V.

In one place it finds, " that the Walter.

harbour or port of Barnstable is about three miles
from the harbour of Yarmouth;" in another,
that a long point of land intervenes between

"Yarmouth harbour or Bass river harbour, and
Hyanis or Barnstable harbour ;" in both instances
drawing an express discrimination between
Yarmouth harbour, to which the vessel was bound,
(taking the term to be the synonyme of port,)
and Hyanis, or Barnstable harbour, in which she
was seized.
Every thing proves that Bass river harbour
was the original destination of the vessel. In
this sense, it cannot be denied, that Bass river
harbour was the port to which, in the language
of the law, she, was " ostensibly bound." No
one contends, that when at her anchorage in
LIHyanis bay, where she was seized, she c'ould be
considered as arrived at Bass river harbour. It
was ten miles from this harbour-a peninsula
intervening-and, as the verdict finds, the vessel
had gone to Hyanis bay after being compelled,
by head winds, to pass Bass river.
But, it is contended, that as her clearance was
not specified to Bass. river harbour, but to the
port of Yarmouth, an arrival at Gage's wharf
would as wel have satisfied the exigencies of her
case ; that, in fact, she had arrived there when
anchored where she was seized, and that, havingthen a right to demand her permit to land, and,

19.6
1826.
Sa Oti
Walter.

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

having demanded it, the circumstances make out
termination of the voyage as effectually as'if
she had put in to Bass river.
We have already stated, we think, sufficient
reasons for not admitting thai the clearance could
be satisfied by a destination to Gage's wharf.
Yet, it cannot be denied, that there is one part
of the special verdict that does throw some obscurity over this part of the case. It is that in
which the jury find in these words: " that, in the
practice of the custom hove for Barnstable, and
of the owners and masters )f vessels belonging
to Barnstable district, Yarmouth and Barnstable are considered one and the same port; and
that Gage's wharf, at the head of Lewis' bay, is
a place in Yarmouthi, at which vessels bound to
that port frequently unload, and that no difference is made in the custom house between Yarmouth and Barnstable, or Hyanis, as to the entry
of vessels that have arrived at either pla-e."
If, in this passage of the verdict, the jury meant
to find, that a vessel arriving in Hyanis roads,
an open roadstead, not locked in by any head
lands that could make a port of it, had, in fact,
arrived at Gage's wharf, or Bass river, they should
have been explicit; and, absurd and repugnant
to the geography of the country, and the common sense of mankind, as thl fact would have
been, we must have submitted to it, or refused to
act upon it. As it is, we can only draw such inferences as the finding will sanction. And we
are free to confess, that we cannot understand
what is meant by a practice of the custom

OF THE UNITED STATES.

197

house and shipmasters of Barnstable, which con- 1826.
founds the open roadstead of Hyanis with the Otis
harbour of Bass river, or even the landing -place
v.
at Gage's wharf, the one ten, the other three Walter.
miles off. 'We can very readily conceive why the
landing place at Gage's wharf should be indifferently called Falmouth or Barnstable, since it is
in the town by the one name, and the landing
place for the port or bay of the other name, the
line crossing the bay but a few feet from the
wharf. To arrive, therefore, at Barnstable
harbour, or Lewis' bay or Hyanis roads, which
seem to.be somehow confounded in this verdict,
and to arrive at the township of Yarmouth, at
Gage's wharf, may be considered as one and the
same thing. And yetthe inference from that fact
may be directly the reverse of that insisted on for
the defendant in error. For, the finding is clear
and positive, which distinguishes between Barnstable harbour and Yarmouth harbour; and if,
then, Barnstable harbour be identified with the
landing place as Gage's wharf, the conclusion is
unavoidable that the port of Yarmouth cannot
mean the landing place at Gage's wharf. Indeed
it is impossible to arrive at the cc -lusion- that
the destination of this vessel was indifferently to
Gage's wharf or Bass river, without permitting a
mere inference, and that too from equivocal
terms, to conflict with a positive finding of the
jury couched in the most explicit terms. And
even when advanced that far, it would still remain
for the defendant here, to maintain that a vessel
at anchor in Hyanis road had completed her

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1826.

voyage to Gagcs wharf: a proposition as wide
of the fact with reference to the topography of
Otis
v.
the country as it is of the intendment of law, or
Walter. the finding of the jury. For the words
of.the
special verdict are, "that the vessel when seized
lay at anchor in the harbour or port of Barnstable, above half a mile from the shore or beach,
and about thtret miles from the harbour of Yarmouth." That the jury did not intend to confound Gage's wharf with the 'harbour of Yarmouth is distinctly shown by-the words that follow the above, declaring Gage's wharf to be six
miles and a half from where the vessel was seized. Whether the jury were right or wrong in
fixing these distances, the inference we deduce
fron it is still the same, to wit, that the harbour of
Yarmouth and Gage's wharf could not be one, no
more that the port-of Barnstable and the harbour
of Yarmouth The vessel lay in the former, three
miles distant from the latter, and six and a half
from Gage's wharf.
Upon the whole, we can discover nothing in this
case to induce us to alter the opinion entertained
in the two former, that the vessel had not reached the terminus of her voyage, that she was in
itinere, and therefore liable to seizure. On the
subject of the argument deduced from the demand
of the permit to land, we think this also was fully
answered and disposed of in the former decisions
of this Court in the same suit. We are therefore of opinion that the act on which the collector
relies, justified the seizure ; that there is error in
the judgment of the Court of Massachusetts ; that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

it must be reversed, and a judgment entered for
the plaintiff here, the defendant in the original

1826.
X

"

see
T.

suit.

Judgment accordirigly.

LSTATUTE or FnVuns.
HINDE's

EVIMENCE.]

Lessee against LONGWORTH.

Question as to the sufficiency of a certificate of acknowledgment of
a deed at lands in Ohio.
In examining the admissibility of testimony in the Court above, the

party excepting is to be confined to the specific objection taken at the
trial.
Where a voluntary deed is impeached as fraudulent, evidence ofjudgments against the gran'tor is admissible as proof, (among other facts,)
that he was indebted at the time of making the deed, although the
grantee was not a party to the suits on which the judgments were
obtai ne d.
A voluntary deed is void as to antecedent, but not as to subsequent
creditors.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Ohio.
This was an action of ejectment brought by the
plaintiff in error, to recover the possession.
of the premises in the cause, described as in lot
No. 107 in the town of Cincinnati. It appeared
in evidence t the trial, that on the 28th of March,
1799, Thomas Doyle, sen. under whom both parties derived title, was seized and possessed of the
lot in question. The lessor of the plaintiff claimed under a deed of that date from Thomas

Longworth.

