Get. 1878.]

BURGESS V. SALMON.

BURGESS v. SALMON.
In the forenoon of March 3, 1875, A. stamped, sold, and removed for consumption or use from the place of manufacture certain tobacco, which, under
sect. 3368 of the Revised Statutes, was subject to a tax of twenty cents per
pound. On the afternoon of that day, the President approved the act of
March 3, 1875 (18 Stat. 339), increasing the tax to twenty-four cents per
pound, but providing that such increase should "not apply to tobacco on
which the tax under existing laws shall have been paid when this act takes
effect." Held, that the increase of tax under that act did not apply to the
tobacco so stamped, sold, and removed.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

31r. Assistant-Attorney-Ceneral Smith for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr. W. P. Burwell, contra.

MIR.

JUSTICE HUNT

delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts of this case, as agreed upon, were these: That
Burgess was collector of internal revenue for the third collection district of Virginia, and in that capacity exacted from and
received of Salmon & Hancock, and paid into the treasury of
the United States, the sum of $377.80, as an additional tax of
four cents a pound on a quantity of tobacco belonging to them.
It was thus exacted on the third day of March, 1875, under
the act of that date, which provides as follows : "That sect. 3368 of the Revised Statutes be amended by strik
ing out the words ' twenty cents a pound,' and inserting in lieu
thereof the words ' twenty-four cents a pound." . . . "Provided,
that the increase of tax herein provided for shall not apply to
tobacco on which the tax under existing laws shall have been paid
when this act takes effect." 18 Stat. 339.
The act contains also the provision following, viz.:
"Every person who removes from his manufactory tobacco with-

out the proper stamp being affixed and cancelled . . . shall, for each

offence, be fined not less than $1,000 and not more than $5,000, and
be imprisoned not less than one year and not more than two years."

BURGESS V. SALMON.

[Sup. Ct.

The tobacco in question was stamped, sold, and removed
for consumption or use from the place of manufacture, and
beyond the control of Salmon & Hancock, in the forenoon of
March 3, 1875, and the above-named act of Congress was approved in the afternoon of that day, after the stamping and
removal of this tobacco, which, when removed, had been
stamped at twenty cents a pound. Payment of the additional
four cents a pound was made under protest, and an appeal to
the commissioner of internal revenue regularly taken and overruled.
The manufacturers brought suit to recover back the amount,
and recovered judgment in the court below. The collector
thereupon sued out this writ of error.
The case presents but a single point : Can a manufacturer be
punished, criminally and civilly, - civilly here, - for the violation of a statute, when the statute was not in force at the time
the act was done ? In other words, Can a person be thus punished when he did not contravene the provisions of the statute?
In still other words, Can one be punished for offending against
the provisions of a statute from the effects of which he was
expressly exempted ?
We are relieved by the agreed statement, to which reference
is made, from examining a question of importance, and perhaps
of difficulty, respecting the puntum temporis when a statute
takes effect. Does it, as the collector contends, have operation
in the present instance on the third day of March, 1875, and
cover the whole of that day, commencing at midnight of
March the second? If the time may be inquired into, to
ascertain at what hour or what fraction of an hour of the day
the form of the law becomes complete, is it to be ascertained by
the court as a question of law, or to be decided as an issue of
fact ?
It is agreed by the parties to the record that in fact the duty
of twenty per cent had been paid on the tobacco in question,
and it had been removed from the storehouse, before the act of
March a, 1875, took effect; and we content ourselves by acting
upon that agreement.
We are of opinion that the government must fail, upon the
facts agreed upon; to wit, that the duty of twenty per cent bad

Oct. 1878.]

BURGESS V. SALION.

been paid and the tobacco had been removed before the act
had been approved by the President. The seventh section
of article 1 of the Constitution of the United States provides
that every bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate shall, before it becomes a law, be presented to the President of the United States. If he approve
he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his objections, to that House in which it originated, . . . who shall
proceed to reconsider it.. . .If any bill shall not be returned
by the President within ten days (Sundays excepted) after it
shall have been presented to him, the same shall be a law, in
like manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress, by
their adjournment, prevent its return, in which case it shall
not be a law.
In the present case, the President approved the bill; and the
time of such approval points out the earliest possible moment
at which it could become a law, or, in the words, of the act of
March 8, 1875, at which it could take effect,
In Lapeyre v. United States (17 Wall. 191), it was said obiter,
"The act became effectual upon the day of its date. In some
cases it is operative from the first moment of that day. Fractions
of the day are not recognized. An inquiry involving that subject is inadmissible." The question involved in that case was
whether a proclamation issued by President Johnson, bearing
date of June 24, 1865, removing certain restrictions upon commercial intercourse, took effect on that day, or whether it took
effect on the day it was published and promulgated, which was
on the 27th of the same month. It was held by a majority of
this court that it took effect from its date. The question was
upon the 24th or the 27th of June, and the point of the portion of
a day was not involved. While the general proposition may be
true, that where no special circumstances exist, the entire day
on which the act was passed may be included, there is nothing
in that case to make it an authority on the point before us.
In the Matter of Howes (21 Vt. 619), it appeared that the
Bankrupt Act was repealed March 8, 1848. Howes presented
his petition on that day, and it was held that he was too late,
that on questions of that nature there can be no divisions of a
day.

384

BURGESS

V. SALMON.

[Sup. Ct.

In the Xatter of Welman (20 id. 653), the question was the
same, and decided in the same way. While stating the general
rule as above, the court say they agree with Lord Mansfield
in Coombs v. Pitt (4 Burr. 1423), that in particular cases
the very hour may well be shown when it need and can be
done.
Arnold v. United States (9 Cranch, 104) is in affirmance of
the same general principle. The act of July 1, 1812, there discussed, provided " that an additional duty of one hundred per
cent upon the permanent duties now imposed by law.., shall
be levied and collected on all goods, wares, and merchandises
which shall, from and after the passage of this act, be imported
into the United States from any foreign port or place." The
goods were brought into the collection district of Providence on
the first day of July, 1812. The court say, "The statute was
to take effect from its passage, and it is a general rule that,
where the computation is to be made from an act done, the day
on which the act is done is to be included."
See the case of Richardson (2 Story, 571), decided by the
same judge, sustaining the view just taken.
In the present case, the acts and admissions of the government establish the position that the duties exacted by law had
been fully paid, and the goods had been surrendered and transported before the President had approved the act of Congress
imposing an increased duty upon them.
To impose upon the owner of the goods a criminal punishment or a penalty of $377 for not paying an additional tax of
four cents a pound, would subject him to the operation of an
ex post facto law.
An ex post facto law is one which imposes a punishment for
an act which was not punishable at the time it was committed,
or a punishment in addition to that then prescribed. Carpenter et al. v. Cornmonwealth of Pennsylvania, 17 How. 456.
Had the proceeding against Salmon & Hancock been taken
by indictment instead of suit for the excess of the tax, and the
one was equally authorized with the other, the proceeding
would certainly have fallen within the description of an ex post
facto law.
In Fletcher v. Peck (6 Cranch, 87), it was decided that an

Oct. 1878.]

PETTIGREW V. UNITED STATES.

act of the legislature by which a man's estate shall be seized
for a crime which was not declared to be an offence by a previous law, was void.
In Cummings v. Missouri (4 Wail. 277), it was held that the
passage of an act imposing a penalty on a priest for the performance of an act innocent at the time it was committed, was
void.
To the same purport is Pierce v. Carskaden, 16 id. 234.
The cases cited hold that the expost facto effect of a law cannot be evaded by giving a civil form to that which is essentially
criminal. Cummings v. Missouri, supra; Potter's Dwarris, 162,
163, note 9.
Judgment affirmed.

PETTIGREW v. UNITED STATES.
1. An action by the United States, to recover the proceeds arising from sales
of tobacco, which, found in the hands of the defendant, a bailee, was seized
as forfeited for the non-payment of the tax due thereon, and then left with
him, under an agreement with the collector of internal revenue that he, the
bailee, should sell it and hold the proceeds, subject to the decision of the
proper court, is, within the meaning of sect. 699 of the Revised Statutes, an
action to enforce a revenue law, and this court has jurisdiction to re-examine
the judgment, without regard to the amount involved.
2. The defendant having set up in his plea that, while he held such proceeds,
pursuant to the agreement, a suit to recover them, defended by A., the
owner of the tobacco, was dismissed by the United States after plea filed,
and that the defendant, after retaining them for nearly four years, and no
other suit having been brought, paid them to A., the court, although testimony was offered sustaining his plea, instructed the jury that he was liable.
Held,that the instruction was erroneous.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mfr. W. . C. ffumes for the plaintiff in error.
ir. Assistant-Attorney-General Smith, contra.
JUSTICE MmLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment in this case is for $1,354.85, and a question is

MR.

VOL. v11.

25

