HILL v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

The return of the sheriff, though it does not state all the facts
necessary to make the service good, yet does not contradict the
recital; and no allegation was made that the defendant could
have been found to be personally served with process. Under
these circumstances, I think the judgment cannot be assailed.
collaterally.

HILL v. NATIOiNAL BANx.
A., the owner of a parcel of land, consisting of four adjoining lots, three of them
having buildings thereon, conveyed it in fee to B. in trust, to secure the payment
of certain notes to C. He subsequently used the land and buildings as a paper
manufactory, annexing thereto the requisite machinery, and secured by lease
a supply of water as a motive-power. Default having been made in paying
the notes, B., under the power conferred by the deed, sold the land, excluding
therefrom the machinery and water-power therewith connected; and on the
ground that they constituted an entirety, and should have been sold together,
A.,by his bill against C, obtained a decree setting aside said sale. The notes
remaining unpaid, C. filed his bill against A. and the lessor of the water-power,
to enforce the execution of the trust, and prayed that the land mentioned
in said deed, including the fixtures, machinery, and water-power, be sold as
an entirety. The court below passed a decree accordingly. A. appealed here.
Held, 1. That the decree is correct. 2. That the former decree estopped the
parties thereto from again litigating the questions thereby decided.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
APPEAL

114r. Frederick W. Jones for the appellant.
Mr. Charles 11'. Matthews, contra.
Mi. JUSTICE SwA
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a case in equity. On the 15th of January, 1864,
Hill executed a deed of trust to Edward Shoemaker, conveying in fee-simple four lots in Georgetown to secure the payment of three promissory notes therein described. The notes
were executed hy Hill. All of them bore date on the 21st
of October, 1863, and were payable to the order of Judson
Mitchell and John Davidson. They were each for the sum of
$2,210.33, and were to be paid, respectively, at one, two, and
three years from date, with interest at the rate of six per cent
per annum, to be paid half-yearly. In the event of any default

Oct. 1878.]

HILL V. NATIONAL BANK.

of payment by Hill, the trustee was authorized to sell the premises for the satisfaction of the debt. The lots were numbered
1, 2, 3, and 4, and were all contiguous. On each of three of
the lots there was a brick tenement. Lot 4 was unimproved.
The appellant bought the premises with the 4 iew of using
them for a paper-mill. This purpose he proceeded to carry
out. He altered the buildings, put in the requisite machinery,
and took a lease of water-power from the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal Company, "to be used at his property at the corners of
Potomac and Water Streets" (being the premises in question),
"and to be used in propelling the machinery of a paper-mill
and appurtenant works." He introduced the water upon the
premises, and applied it according to the terms of the lease.
The several notes were duly assigned and transferred to the
Farmers' and Mechanics' National Bank. Hill having made
default by allowing all the notes to become overdue without
payment, the trustee, under the power conferred by the deed,
advertised and sold the real estate as it was when the deed was
executed, and irrespective of the water-power and the paper-mill
machinery. A bill was thereupon filed by Hill to set the sale
aside. The Supreme Court of the District sustained the bill
and annulled the sale, upon the ground that the realty, the
water-power, and the machinery constituted an entirety, and
should have been sold together. The court said: "The complainant placed in these structures, at great expense, all the
machinery necessary to a paper-mill, and procured from the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company a water-power, which
he conveyed underground some three or four hundred feet to
the mill property, for the purpose of operating the machinery,
and also incurred a heavy expense for an underground tail-race,
to conduct the water away."
"The great mischief done, as we think, was not in selling
the lots together, but in selling them without reference to the
fixed machinery and water-power connected therewith." "We
are governed in our conclusion in setting this sale aside by
the fact that both parties had a right to permanent inprovements upon the premises, so far as the same were inalienably
fixed upon each other, and that there was no exclusive right of
either to divide them."

HILL V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

This bill was thereupon filed by the bank against Hill and
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company to enforce the payment of the amount due upon the notes by a decree for the
sale of the lots described in the deed of trust, together with
the water-power and machinery used upon the premises, if the
court should deem that the two latter could be included in
the sale. The court below finally decreed "that the said real
estate and premises, including said fixtures and machinery, and
also said water-power, according as the same are referred to,
mentioned, or described in said bill, be sold as an entirety, and
as forming and being a paper manufactory, according to a suitable description thereof, to be made for the purpose of a sale
by the trustees to be hereinafter appointed to make said sale."
This decree was affirmed at the general term. Hill then
brought the case here for review, and assigns three errors: 1. That the court erred in decreeing the sale of lot 4 with
the other property.
2. In decreeing the sale of machinery not permanently annexed, without evidence as to the mode, object, and intention
of the annexation.
8. In decreeing the sale of the water-power as appurtenant
to the land.
The appellant does not deny that the debt is bona fide; that
it is overdue; that it belongs to the appellee; nor that the
decree is for the proper amount. His objections are only those
assigned as errors. To all three of them there is a common
answer. The points are res ]udieatce between the parties. In
setting aside the sale made by the trustee, upon the appellant's
bill filed to bring about that result, the court adjudged, expressly, that the entire premises, including lot 4 and the
machinery and water-power, should be sold together as an entirety; and the sale was set aside because it was not so made.
The appellant now asks that the decree before us be reversed,
because it requires the sale to be made in the manner prescribed in the former case. This cannot be done. The questions raised by the assignments are concluded by the former
decree, and both parties are barred from litigating them a
second time. Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1523. The law of estoppel
is founded in reason and justice. It makes the acts and con-

Oct. 1878.]

HILL v. NATIONAL BANK.

duct of a party binding against him whenever it should be so,
and will not permit him to assert any claim to the contrary.
He thus himself makes the law of his case, and he must abide
the consequences. When in the former case the sale by the
trustee was challenged by the appellant, he and the appellee
were both before the court with their proofs, and the case was
fully heard. We have shown the result, and we do not sit
here to review or reverse it. The decree upon the points in
issue, and decided, is as binding upon the parties as a judgment
or decree would be in any other case. Story, Eq. Jur., supra;
Bigelow, Estoppel, 812-815.
But, irrespective of this consideration, we think the decree
appealed from is correct.
It is not questioned that the realty, the water-power, and
the machinery constituted a paper-mill. They were therefore,
ex vi termini, a unit, and could not be disintegrated and the
parts sold separately without large depreciation, and a diminished amount in the aggregate of the yield. It is obviously
best for all concerned that the property should be sold pursuant to the decree. According to the terms of the lease the
water-power could be employed only on the premises, and for
driving there a paper-mill. Lot 4 is convenient and important
for use in connection with the rest of the property, and hence
should be sold with it. That lot is the only vacant and unimproved part of the premises, but it is not on that account the
less necessary for various purposes in operating the establishment. Olcott v. Bynum et al., 17 Wall. 44. Without the waterpower the machinery would be worthless, except to be torn out
and removed. By placing it in the buildings in constructing
the mill, every part and parcel of it, as between mortgagor and
mortgagee, became a fixture and a part of the freehold.
There is some conflict in both the English and American
authorities upon this subject; but we think the view we have
expressed is the better one, and sustained by the greater weight
of authority. The intent and conduct of the mortgagor under
the circumstances of this case are conclusive. Exparte Astbury,
Law Rep. 4 Ch. 680; Metropolitan Counties Society v. Brown,
26 Beav. 454; Oristianv. Dripys, 28 Pa. St. 271; Hill v.
,ewald, 58 id. 271; Seeger v. Pettit, 77 id. 487; Palmer v.

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ot.

Forbes, 23 Ill. 301; Deal v. Palmer, 72 N. C. 582; TWalmsley
v. Milne, 7 C. B. N. s. 115; Powell v. Manufacturing Company,
3 Mas. 459; Trull v. Fuller, 28 Me. 545; Corliss v. 3lcEagin,
29 id. 115; iAf Kini v. Mason, 3 Md. Ch. 187; Winslow v. Merchants' Insurance Co., 4 Mete. (Mass.) 306.
Decree affirmed.

KEITH V. CLARK.
1. Where a case has been decided in an inferior court of a State on a single point
which would give this court jurisdiction, it will not be presumed here that
the Supreme Court of the State decided it on some other ground not found
in the record or suggested in the latter court.
2. The State of Tennessee having, in 1838, organized the Bank of Tennessee,
agreed, by a clause in the charter, to receive all its issues of circulating notes
in payment of taxes; but, by a constitutional amendment adopted in 1865,
it declared the issues of the bank during the insurrectionary period void,
and forbade their receipt for taxes. Held, that the amendment was in
conflict with the provision of the Constitution of the United States against
impairing the obligation of contracts.
3. There is no evidence in this record that the notes offered in payment of taxes
by the plaintiff were issued in aid of the rebellion, or on any consideration
forbidden by the Constitution or the laws of the United States; and no such
presumption arises from any thing of which this court can take judicial
notice.
4. The political society which, in 1796, was organized and admitted into the
Union by the name of Tennessee, has to this time remained the same body
politic. Its attempt to separate itself from that Union did not destroy its
identity as a State, nor free it from the binding force of the Constitution of
the United States.
6. Being the same political organization during the rebellion, and since, that it
was before, - an organization essential to the existence of society,- all its
acts, legislative and otherwise, during the period of the rebellion are valid
and obligatory on the State now, except where they were done in aid of
that rebellion, or are in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the United
States, or were intended to impeach its authority.
6 If the notes which were the foundation of this suit had been issued on a consideration which would make them void for any of the reasons mentioned,
it is for the party asserting their invalidity to set up and prove the facts
on which such a plea is founded.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the courL.
Mr. Philip Phillipsand Mr. George Hoadly for the plaintiff
in error.
Mr. J B. Heiskell, contra.

