Oct. 1878.]

PETTIGREW V. UNITED STATES.

act of the legislature by which a man's estate shall be seized
for a crime which was not declared to be an offence by a previous law, was void.
In Cummings v. Missouri (4 Wail. 277), it was held that the
passage of an act imposing a penalty on a priest for the performance of an act innocent at the time it was committed, was
void.
To the same purport is Pierce v. Carskaden, 16 id. 234.
The cases cited hold that the expost facto effect of a law cannot be evaded by giving a civil form to that which is essentially
criminal. Cummings v. Missouri, supra; Potter's Dwarris, 162,
163, note 9.
Judgment affirmed.

PETTIGREW v. UNITED STATES.
1. An action by the United States, to recover the proceeds arising from sales
of tobacco, which, found in the hands of the defendant, a bailee, was seized
as forfeited for the non-payment of the tax due thereon, and then left with
him, under an agreement with the collector of internal revenue that he, the
bailee, should sell it and hold the proceeds, subject to the decision of the
proper court, is, within the meaning of sect. 699 of the Revised Statutes, an
action to enforce a revenue law, and this court has jurisdiction to re-examine
the judgment, without regard to the amount involved.
2. The defendant having set up in his plea that, while he held such proceeds,
pursuant to the agreement, a suit to recover them, defended by A., the
owner of the tobacco, was dismissed by the United States after plea filed,
and that the defendant, after retaining them for nearly four years, and no
other suit having been brought, paid them to A., the court, although testimony was offered sustaining his plea, instructed the jury that he was liable.
Held,that the instruction was erroneous.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mfr. W. . C. ffumes for the plaintiff in error.
ir. Assistant-Attorney-General Smith, contra.
JUSTICE MmLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The judgment in this case is for $1,354.85, and a question is

MR.

VOL. v11.

25

PETTIGREW V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

raised as to the jurisdiction of this court, because it does not
exceed $2,000.
If it is an action to enforce a revenue law of the United
States, we have jurisdiction without regard to amount. Rev.
Stat., sect. 699. If it is not such an action, we have not.
The counts in the original complaint are very clearly counts
on a contract of bailment and for money had and received.
But a demurrer to the declaration was sustained, and the case
was tried on an amended declaration.
The amended declaration sets forth the seizure, while in
possession of the defendants, of ninety caddies of tobacco as
forfeited to the United States, on account of false and fraudulent stamps and inspection marks found there by Rolf S.
Sanders, a collector of internal revenue; that said Sanders and
defendants having entered into an unlawful and unauthorized
agreement that defendants should sell the tobacco and hold the
proceeds of the sale subject to the decision of the proper court,
in proceedings to be instituted therein for the condemnation of
the tobacco, said agreement was void; by reason whereof the
defendants became liable to the United States for the value of
the tobacco, which they have refused to pay. This is repeated
in the second count, and the third is for money had and received. The substance of this is, that the tobacco being forfeited for a violation of the revenue law, and a seizure made,
and the goods left with the defendants, the contemporaneous
agreement is void, and the defendants are proceeded against
in personam for the value of the goods so left with them,
which cannot now be found. It would be a very narrow and
technical definition of the phrase "enforcement of any revenue law" which did not recognize this action as one brought
for that purpose. If there had been no revenue law which
made this tobacco liable to seizure, the complaint would be
bad on demurrer. The foundation of the action is the right
which the revenue law vests in the United States to this property, and it is the enforcement of this right that is sought in
this action. This was clearly the view which the court took
of the matter, and in that view af it instructed the july as
follows: "That if they believed the tobacco caddies had upon them

Oct. 1878.]

PETTIGREW V. UNITED STATES.

counterfeit stamps or brands, that such fact forfeited it to the
government.
"And if the proper officer seized it as forfeited, and the defendants sold the same by direction of the officer seizing it, and
received the money, and had not paid it, or any part thereof, to
the government, they remained liable for the amount so received
by them, and they should find a verdict for the plaintiffs."
The judge evidently understood that he was enforcing the
revenue law against a person unlawfully dealing with property
which had been found in his possession forfeited to the government by reason of a violation of that law. We think this
court has jurisdiction, under the section of the Revised Statutes
cited.
The third plea of the defendants sets out the facts that, up to
the time the goods were seized, they held them on sale for com
mission for Glazier, Luko, & Co., of St. Louis, and knew noth
ing of the causes of the alleged seizure; that at the request of
Sanders, the officer who made the seizure, they consented to
sell the goods, and hold the proceeds subject to proceedings in
court to condemn them; that defendants were directed by Sanders to sell the tobacco, because it would become worthless if detained until the end of the suit; that they did sell the tobacco,
and while the proceeds were in their hands a suit was commenced against them for the money, which was defended by
Glazier, Luko, & Co., and dismissed by the district attorney
after plea filed; that after retaining the money for nearly four
years, and no other suit being brought for the money, or other
proceedings against the tobacco, or any demand of them, they
paid over the money to the parties from whom they had received the tobacco. To this plea a demurrer was filed and
overruled, and issue was taken on it. The bill of exceptions
shows that testimony was offered tending to sustain every allegation of the plea; but by giving the instruction copied above,
the court, in effect, held that, if the jury believed the plea to be
sustained by the evidence, it was no defence.
In this we think the court erred.
The defendants were bailees of Glazier, Luko, & Co. when
the officer made the seizure. They were not charged with any
offence against the revenue laws, and they were in no danger

PETTIGREW V. UNITED STATES.

[-Sup .

of loss, since they did not own the tobacco. It was a matter
of indifference to them, in a pecuniary sense, what the officer
did with the tobacco. It was his own convenience, therefore,
and the interest of the government, that induced them to take
charge of it, and sell it to prevent loss; and they did so, holding
the proceeds subject to judicial proceedings, to be instituted to
determine the right of the government to those proceeds. We
see nothing in this to condemn. The agreement made was the
best that could have been made, both for the government and
the owner of the goods, and was one in which the defendants
were to remain bailees under the changed condition of affairs.
Undoubtedly, the officer could have required them, as a condition of leaving the property where he found it, to pay the
money it sold for to him, or into the treasury, or into the registry of the court. But he did not. And we see no reason to
hold that it was not competent for the defendants to retain the
property on the terms which he proposed. If he had required
them to sell it as property of the United States, and pay them
the proceeds, they might have relieved themselves of all trouble
by refusing. The officer may not have performed his duty. It
was probably his duty when he made seizure of the property to
deliver it to some other officer of the government, and have it
libelled at once, and a warrant of seizure issued. But this neglect of his duty did not make void the promise of the defendants to take suitable care of the property, and hold it ready for
such order as the court which might take jurisdiction of the
proceeding should make.
If the contract of defendants was obligatory on them, as we
think it was, the evidence shows that they did all that it required of them. They sold the property, and held the money
until a suit was instituted against them for it. The right to
the money could as well have been decided in that suit as in
this; but after the owners of the tobacco had taken the defence
of the suit on themselves, and filed a plea, the suit was dismissed
by the attorney for the United States. The defendants still
held the money for nearly four years, awaiting any further
legal proceedings, or any order from Sanders or from the government. In the absence of any thing of the kind, they felt it
to be their duty to pay the money to the parties from whom

Oct. 1878.]

NAuvoo v.

RITTER.

they had received the tobacco. And we think they were right.
They took the goods as bailees, to hold subject to a proceeding
for condemnation. Such a suit, in effect, was commenced and
dismissed. They were only bound to hold after this for a reasonable time; and when that was passed, their duty under the
agreement was ended, and their obligation to Glazier, Luko, &
Co. revived.
This is the honest and fair view of the subject, and we think
it conflicts with no rule of law.
The instructions of the judge were in conflict with this view,
and the judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and a new trial
granted; and it is
So ordered.

NAuvoo v.

RITTFR.

1. In Illinois, a copy of the written instrument on which the action is founded
must be filed with the declaration, and it constitutes part of the pleadings
in the case.
2 Where bonds issued by a municipal corporation, having lawful authority to
issue them upon the performance of certain conditions precedent, refer upon
their face to such authority, and there is printed on their back a copy of
an ordinance declaring such performance, it is not error, in an action
against the corporation by an innocent holder of them, to sustain a demur
rer to a special plea tendering an issue as to the authority of the corporation to issue them, or as to matters of fact contained in the recital of such
ordinance.
3. The court reaffirms the ruling in Labcr v. Cooper (7 Wall. 565), that, where a
case has been tried and a verdict rendered as if the pleadings had been perfect, the failure to demur or to reply to a special plea setting up a matter
of defence furnishes no ground for reversing the judgment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
This was an action of debt by George A. Ritter, a citizen of
Missouri, against the city of Nauvoo, a corporation existing
under the laws of Illinois, on four bonds and the coupons
thereto attached, issued by that city in 1854, in part payment
of its subscription to the capital stock of the Warsaw and
Rockford Railroad Company. The declaration contained, besides the common counts, a count upon each of the bonds; and

