Oct. 1877.]

BEER CO. V. MASSACHLYSETTS.

BFu COMPNY v. MASSACoUSMTS.
1. An act of the legislature of Massachusetts, passed Feb. 1, 1828, to incorporate
the Boston Beer Company, "for the purpose of manufacturing malt liquors
in all their varieties," declared that the company should have all the powers and privileges, and be subject to all the duties and requirements, contained in an act passed March 3,1809, entitled "An Act defining the general
powers and duties of manufacturing corporations," and the several acts in
addition thereto. Said act of 1809 had this clause: "Provided always, that
the legislature may from time to time, upon due notice to any corporation,
make further provisions and regulations for the management of the business
of the corporation and for the government thereof, or wholly to repeal any
act or part thereof, establishing any corporation, as shall be deemed expedi
ent." In 1829, an act repealing that of 1809, and all acts in addition thereto,
and reserving similar power, was passed. Under the prohibitory liquor law
of 1869, certain malt liquors belonging to the company were seized as it was
transporting them to its place of business in said State, with intent there to
sell them, and they were declared forfeited. Hdd, 1. That the provisions
of the act of 1809, touching the power reserved by the legislature, having
been adopted in the charter, were a part of the contract between the State
and the company, rendering the latter subject to the exercise of that power.
2. That the contract so contained in the charter was not affected by the
repeal of that act, nor was its obligation impaired by the prohibitory liquor
law of 1869.
2. The company, under its charter, has no greater right to manufacture or sell
malt liquors than individuals possess, nor is it exempt from any legislative
control therein to which they are subject.
3.All rights are held subject to the police power of a State; and, if the pub
lic safety or the public morals require the discontinuance of any manufacture or traffic, the legislature may provide for its discontinuance,
notwithstanding individuals or corporations may thereby suffer incon
venience.
4. As the police power of a State extends to the protection of the lives, health,
and property of her citizens, the maintenance of good order, and the preservation of the public morals, the legislature cannot, by any contract, devest
itself of the power to provide for these objects.
6 While the court does not assert that property actually in existence, and in
which the right of the owner has become vested when a law was passed,
may, under its provisions, be taken for the public good without due compensation, nor lay down any rule at variance with its decisions in regard to
the paramount authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States,
relating to the regulation of commerce with foreign nations and among the
several States, or otherwise, it reaffirms its decision in Bartereyer v. Iowa
(18 Wall. 129), that, as a measure of police regulation, a State law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors is not repugnant to any
clause of that Constitution.

BEER CO. V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

6. It appearing from the record that the point, that the prohibitory liquor law
of 1869 impaired the obligation of the contract contained in the charter of
the company, was made on the trial of the case, and decided adversely
to the company, and was afterwards carried, by bill of exceptions, to the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts, where the rulings of the lower c)urt were
affirmed, this court has jurisdiction.

ERROR to the Superior Court of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.
This was a proceeding in the Superior Court of Suffolk
County, Massachusetts, for the forfeiture of certain malt liquors, belonging to the Boston Beer Company, and which had
been seized as it was transporting them to its place of business
in said county, with intent there to sell them in violation of
an act of the legislature of Massachusetts, passed June 19,
1869, c. 415, commonly known as the Prohibitory Liquor Law.
The company claimed that, under its charter, granted in 1828,
it had the right to manufacture and sell said liquors; and that
said law impaired the obligation of the contract contained in
that charter, and was void, so far as the liquors in question
were concerned. The court refused to charge the jury to
that effect, and a verdict was found against the claimant.
The rulings of the Superior Court having been affirmed by
the Supreme Judicial Court of the Commonwealth, the company brought the case here. The statutes of Massachusetts
bearing on the case are referred to in the opinion of the
court.
Xr. I. W . Paine and Mr. P. 0. Prince for the plaintiff
in error.
Although the franchise of the company, when granted, was
subject to the provisions of the act of 1809, and might, while
they continued in force, have been modified or revoked, after
due notice, the legislature, by repealing that act, relinquished
the power thereby reserved, and rendered the grant absolute
and unqualified.
The franchise was that of "manufacturing malt liquors in
all their varieties in the city of Boston." The power to sell,
although not e-pressly given, was clearly implied, as otherwise
the charter would have been utterly worthless. Co. Litt. 56;
Shep. Touch. 49; Thay]er v. Payne, 2 Cush. (Mass.) 827;

Oct. 1877.]

BEER CO. V. MASSACHUSETTS.

Pon~fret v. Ricroft, 1 Saund. 321; Darcy v. Askwith, Hob.
234; Planters' Bank v. Grant, 6 How. 318; United States
v. Babbitt, I Black, 55; Ruidekooper's Lessee v. Douglass,
3 Cranch, 1; Charles river Bridge v. Warren Bridge et al.,
11 Pet. 420; People v. Platt, 17 Johns. (N. Y.) 215.
The Commonwealth having made a contract with the cor
pany, that its chartered rights and immunities should not be
revoked, or its franchise essentially impaired, subsequent legislation cannot, directly or indirectly, impair the obligation of
that contract, and destroy vested rights under it. Cooley,
Const. Lim. 278, and cases cited; Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch,
43; Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518;
The Binghampton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51; Wales v. Sutton, 2 Mass.
143; Boston &' Lowell Railroad v. Salem &- Lowell Railroad,
2 Gray (Mass.), 1; Piseataqua Bridge v. New Hampshire
Bridge, 7 N. H. 35; Thorpe v. Burlington & Rutland Railroad, 27 Vt. 140; Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679.
If the police power of a State, as defined in Commonwealth
v. Alger (7 Cush. (Mass.) 53), be "the power vested in the
legislature by the Constitution to make, ordain, and establish
all manner of wholesome and reasonable laws, statutes, and
ordinances, either with penalties or without, not repugnant to
the Constitution, as they shall judge to be for the good and
welfare of the Commonwealth and the subjects of the same,"
the taxing power is clearly of that character. If the legislature may, as the adjudged cases affirm, grant an immunity
from taxation, and thus part with that power, why may it not
with any other? It cannot, in the pretended exercise of the
police power, violate, without a breach of the Constitution, the
provisions of an existing charter, nor, under the guise of regulating, take from a corporation any of its essential chartered
rights and privileges. Cooley, Const. Lim. 576, and cases cited.
The company does not invoke the aid of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution, but submits that the statute
of 1869, under which the liquor was seized and condemned,
impairs the obligation of the contract contained in its charter,
and is therefore unconstitutional and void. The court below
having expressly decided otherwise, there can be no doubt as to
the jurisdiction of this court.

BEER CO. v. AfASSACHUSEWrS.

[Sup. ot.

Mr. 'Charles R. Train for the defendant in error.
The case was tried on the general issue, and the record does
not present any matter of law. The opinion of the court below
showing that a Federal question was considered is not decisive
that it was actually raised or necessarily involved. Xloore v.
Mississippi, 21 Wall. 686.
The act of 1869 does not impair the obligation of a contract,
inasmuch as the charter of the company, being subject to the
reservation of the act of 1809, is amendable and repealable.
The State may, therefore, in the exercise of her police power,
subject the company to the same restraints in the use of its
property as may be imposed upon natural persons. Bartemeyer
v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; Peik v. Chicago .f forth- Western Railway
Co., 94 U. S. 164.
Conceding that the charter is not repealable, it is not fairly
susceptible of the interpretation that it confers the absolute
right to manufacture malt liquor, free from all legislative control. Ohio Life Insurance & Trust Co. v. Debolt, 16 How. 416;
Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514; West Wisconsin Railway Co. v. Boardof Supervisorsof Trempealeau County, 98 U. S.
595; Farringtonv. Tennessee, 95 id. 679; Thorpe v. Rutland &'
Burlington Railroad, 27 Vt. 142; Commonwealth v. Hamilton
Manufacturing Co., 120 Mass. 883.
The legislature could not, under the State Constitution,
make a binding contract, that the police power should not be
thereafter exercised so as to limit this company in the matter
of manufacturing malt liquors. Commonwealth v. Bird, 12
Mass. 443; Boston & Lowell Railroad v. Salem & Lowell Railroad, 2 Gray (Mass.), 1; Eastern Railroad v. .Iiaine Railroad,
111 Mass. 125.
The distinction between the power of the legislature in
regard to the law-making and other sovereign powers on the
one hand, and in regard to the property of the public on the
other, is a sound one. Boston & Lowell Railroad v. Salem J
Lowell Railroad, supra; PiscataquaBridge v. New Hampshire
Bridge, 7 N. H. 35; Brewster v. Hough, 10 id. 188; Brick
Presbyterian Church v. lNew York, 5 Cow. (N. Y.) 588; The
Binghampton Bridge, 8 Wall. 51; State v. Noyes, 47 Me. 189.
The abstract proposition that a person has not the constitu-

Oct. 1877.]

BEER CO. V. MASSACHUSETTS.

tional right to apply, in violation of a statute, his property to
those uses which are injurious to the common welfare, though
not forbidden by the common law, is, as matter of authority,
established law. .Fisher v. XDerirr, 1 Gray (Mass.), 1; Blair
v. Forehand, 100 Mass. 136; Lowell v. Boston, 111 id. 454;
Oviatt v. Pond, 29 Conn. 479; State v. Jfeeran, 5 R. 1. 497;
State v. Allnond, 2 Houst. (Del.) 612; Commonwealth v. Alger,
7 Cush. (Mass.) 53; Coates v. New York, 7 Cow. (N. Y.) 585;
State v. Noyes, 30 N. H. 279; People v. Hawley, 3 Mich. 330;
Commonwealth v. Tewksbury, 11 Metc. (Mass.) 55; New
Orleans v. Stafford, 27 La. Ann. 417; State v. Noyes, 47 Me.
189; Commonwealth v. Blackington, 24 Pick. (Mass.) 352; The
License Cases, 5 How. 504; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129;
3lunn v. Ilinois, 94 U. S. 113.
It is clear, therefore, that the act of 1869 neither violates
any provision of the Constitution of the United States, nor
impairs any vested rights of the company.
The following cases hold that a prohibitory law, to the
same effect as that here in question, does not interfere with
the vested rights of a person who owned intoxicating liquors
at the time of its enactment: State v. Allmond, 2 Houst.
(Del.) 612; State v. Paul, 5 R. I. 185; State v. -Keeran, id.
498; Lincoln v.. Smith, 27 Vt. 328; Gill v. Parker, 31 id.
610; State v. Court of Common Pleas, &c., 7 Vroom (N. J.),
72; Fisher v. 3M Girr, 1 Gray (Mass.), 1; Commonwealth
v. Huber, 12 id. 29; Commonwealth v. Logan, id. 136; People
v. Hawley, 3 Mich. 330; People v. Gallagher, 4 id. 244; Our
House No. 2 v. State, 4 Green, 172; Sauto v. State, 2 Iowa,
165; State v. Bartemeyer, 31 id. 601; State v. W'heeler, 25
Conn. 290.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered

the opinion of the court.

The question raised in this case is, whether the charter of
the plaintiff, which was granted in 1828, contains any contract
the obligation of which was impaired by the prohibitory liquor
law of MHassachusetts, passed in 1869, as applied to the liquor in
question in this suit.
Some question is made by the defendant in error whether
the point was properly raised in the State courts, so as to be

BEER CO. V. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

the subject of decision by the highest court of the State. It is
contended that, although it was raised by plea, in the municipal
court, yet, that plea being demurred to, and the demurrer being
sustained, the defence was abandoned, and the only issue on
which the parties went to trial was the general denial of the
truth of the complaint. But whatever may be the correct
course of proceeding in the practice of courts of Massachusetts,
a matter which it is not our province to investigate, - it is
apparent from the record that the very point now sought to be
argued was made on the trial of the cause in the Superior Court,
and was passed upon, and made decisive of the controversy,
and was afterwards carried by bill of exceptions to the Supreme
Judicial Court, and was decided there adverse to the plaintiff
in error on the very ground on which it seeks a reversal.
The Supreme Court, in its rescript, expressly decides as
follows :"Exceptions overruled for the reasons following: "The act of 1869, c. 415, does not impair the obligations of the
contract contained in the charter of the claimant, so far as it relates'
to the sale of malt liquors, but is binding on the claimant to the
same extent as on individuals.
"The act is in the nature of a police regulation in regard to the
sale of a certain article of property, and is applicable to the sale of
such property by individuals and corporations, even where the
charter of the corporation cannot be altered or repealed by the
legislature."
The judgment of the Superior Criminal Court was entered
in conformity to this rescript, declaring the liquors forfeited to
the Commonwealth, and that a warrant issue for the disposal
of the same.
This is sufficient for our jurisdiction, and we are bound to
consider the question which is thus raised.
As before stated, the charter of the plaintiff in error was
granted in 1828, by an act of the legislature passed on the 1st
of February in that year, entitled " An Act to incorporate the
Boston Beer Company." This act consisted of two sections.
By the first, it was enacted that certain persons (named), their
successors and assigns, "be, and they hereby are, made a corporation, by the name of The Boston Beer Company, for the

Oct. 1877.]

BEER CO. V. MASSACHUSETTS.

purpose of manufacturing malt liquors in all their varieties, in
the city of Boston, and for that purpose shall have all the
powers and privileges, and be subject to all the duties and requirements, contained in an act passed on the third day of
March, A.D. 1809, entitled ' An Act defining the general powers
and duties of manufacturing corporations,' and the several acts
in addition thereto." The second section gave the company
power to hold such real and personal property to certain
amounts, as might be found necessary and convenient for
carrying on the manufacture of malt liquors in the city of
Boston.
The general manufacturing act of 1809, referred to in the
charter, had this clause, as a proviso of the seventh section
thereof : ".Provided always, that the legislature may from time
to time, upon due notice to any corporation, make further
provisions and regulations for the management of the business
of the corporation and for the government thereof, or wholly
to repeal any act or part thereof, establishing any corporation,
as shall be deemed expedient."
A substitute for this act was passed in 1829, which repealed
the act of 1809 and all acts in addition thereto, with this qualification: "But this repeal shall not affect the existing rights
of any person, or the existing or future liabilities of any corporation, or any members of any corporation now established,
until such corporation shall have adopted this act, and complied
with the provisions herein contained."
It thus appears that the charter of the company, by adopt
ing the provisions of the act of 1809, became subject to a
reserved power of the legislature to make further provisions
and regulations for the management of the business of the
corporation and for the government thereof, or wholly to repeal
the act, or any part thereof, establishing the corporation. This
reservation of the power was a part of the contract.
But it is contended by the company that the repeal of the
act of 1809 by the act of 1829 was a revocation or surrender
of this reserved power.
We cannot so regard it. The charter of the company
adopted the provisions of the act of 1809, as a portion of itself;
and those provisions remained a part of the charter, notwith-

BEER CO. V.

MIASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ot.

standing the subsequent repeal of the act. The act of 1829
reserved a similar power to amend or repeal that act, at the
pleasure of the legislature, and declared that all corporations
established under it should cease and expire at the same time
when the act should be repealed. It can hardly be supposed
that the legislature, when it reserved such plenary powers over
the corporations to be organized under the new act, intended to
relinquish all its powers over the corporations organized under
or subject to the provisions of the former act. The qualification of the repeal of the act of 1809, before referred to, seems
to be intended not only to continue the existence of the corporations subject to it in the enjoyment of all their privileges,
but subject to all their liabilities, of which the reserved legislative control was one.
If this view is correct, the legislature of Massachusetts had
reserved complete power to pass any law it saw fit, which
might affect the powers of the plaintiff in error.
But there is another question in the case, which, as it seems
to us, is equally decisive.
The plaintiff in error was incorporated "for the purpose of
manufacturing malt liquors in all their varieties," it is true;
and the right to manufacture, undoubtedly, as the plaintiff's
counsel contends, included the incidental right to dispose of
the liquors manufactured. But although this right or capacity
was thus granted in the most unqualified form, it cannot be
construed as conferring any greater or more sacred right than
any citizen had to manufacture malt liquor; nor as exempting
the corporation from any control therein to which a citizen
would be subject, if the interests of the community should
require it. If the public safety or the public morals require
the discontinuance of any manufacture or traffic, the band of
the legislature cannot be stayed from providing for its discontinuance, by any incidental inconvenience which individuals or
corporations may suffer. All rights are held subject to the
police power of the State.
We do not mean to say that property actually in existence,
and in which the right of the owner has become vested, may
be taken for the public good without due compensation. But
we infer that the liquor inthis case, as in the case of Barte-

Oct. 1877.]

BEER 00. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

meyer v. Iowa (18 Wall. 129), was not in existence whenthe liquor law of Massachusetts was passed. Had the plaintiff in error relied on the existence of the property prior to
the law, it behooved it to show that fact. But no such fact
is shown, and no such point is taken. The plaintiff in error
boldly takes the ground that, being a corporation, it has a
right, by contract, to manufacture and sell beer for ever, notwithstanding and in spite of any exigencies which may occur
in the morals or the health of the community, requiring such
manufacture to cease. We do not so understand the rights of
the plaintiff. The legislature had no power to confer any such
rights.
Whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the extent
and boundaries of the police power, and however difficult it
may be to render a satisfactory definition of it, there seems to
be no doubt that it does extend to the protection of the lives,
health, and property of the citizens, and to the preservation of
good order and the public morals. The legislature cannot, by
any contract, divest itself of the power to provide for these
objects. They belong emphatically to that class of objects
which demand the application of the maxim, salus populi suprema lex; and they are to be attained and provided for by
such appropriate means as the legislative discretion may devise.
That discretion can no more be bargained away than the power
itself. Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 645.
Since we have already held, in the case of Bartemeyer v.
Iowa, that as a measure of police regulation, looking to the
preservation of public morals, a State law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors is not repugnant to
any clause of the Constitution of the United States, we see
nothing in the present case that can afford any sufficient
ground for disturbing the decision of the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts.
Of course, we do not mean to lay down any rule at variance
with what this court has decided with regard to the paramount
authority of the Constitution and laws of the United States,
relating to the regulation of commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States, or otherwise. Brown v. J3Iaryland, 12 Wheat. 419; License Cases, 5 How. 504; Passenger
VOL. VII.

3

NOYES v. HALL.

[Sup. Or.

Cases, 7 id. 283; H enderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S.
259; OChy Lung v. Freeman, id. 275; Bailroad Company v.
Husen, 95 id. 465. That question does not arise in this case.
Judqment affirmed.

NoYE v HALL
1. In Elinois, open, visible, and exclusive possession of lands by a person, under
a contract for a conveyance of them to him, is constructive notice of his
title to creditors and subsequent purchasers.
2. A., the owner in fee of certain lands, having mortgaged them to B., to secure
a debt, contracted in writing to sell and convey them to C., who thereupon, pursuant to the contract, entered on them, and thereafter remained
in the open and visible possession of them. The assignee of B. subsequently
brought suit to foreclose the mortgage, but failed to make 0. a party. A
decree by default was rendered, under which the lands were sold to D., who
conveyed them to B., after C. had paid to A. all that was due upon the
contract, and received from him a deed, which was in due time recorded.
B. brought ejectment, and C. filed his bill to redeem. Held, that C., not
having been served with process, was not bound by the foreclosure proceedings, and that the title which passed by the sale under them was subject to
his right of redemption.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
In April, 1858, Luther Hall, tenant in fee of certain lands
in Illinois, mortgaged them to Lauren A. Noyes, to secure the
payment of $1,075, and on June 4, 1859, made a contract, in
writing, to sell them to Hollis S. Hall, for $3,000, payable in
instalments. In February, 1860, the latter sold his interest
in the lands to Wright C. Hall, who paid him $300, and assumed the conditions of his contract by making a new one with
said Luther, of the same date and tenor. In March, 1860, said
Wright enclosed the lands, and from that date has had open,
continuous, and visible possession of them. His contract with
said Luther was never recorded. Feb. 10, 1864, by deed recorded on the 19th of that month, Luther, having received all
the instalments of the purchase-money for the lands, conveyed
them to said Wright.
In May, 1861, Woodward, assignee of said Noyes, brought

