COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

[Sup. Ct.

Nor is there any thing in the case of United States v. The
Brig Bkrdett (9 Pet. 682) that is in conflict with these several
propositions. Charges of the kind contained in an information
ought to be satisfactorily proved; and it is correct to say that
if the scale of evidence hangs in doubt, the verdict should be in
favor of the claimant, which is all that was there decided.
Jurors in such a case ought to be clearly satisfied that the allegations of the information are true; and when they are so
satisfied of the truth of the charge, they may render a verdict
for the government, even though the proof falls short of what
is required in a criminal case prosecuted by indictment. Jnsurance Company v. Johnson, 11 Bush (Ky.), 593.
Judgment affirmed.

COUNTY OF MACON v. SHORES.
1 Where, in an action against a county, to recover the amount due on coupons
detached from bonds issued by it in payment of its subscription to the capital stock of a railroad company, the declaration avers that the plaintiff is
a bona fide holder of them for value before maturity, and such averment
is traversed, it is competent for him, notwithstanding the presumption of
law in his favor, to maintain the issue by direct affirmative proof.
2. It is no defence to the action that the company, which was a de facto corporation when the subscription was made, had not been organized within the
time prescribed by its charter, and that when the bonds were issued a suit
to restrain the issue of them was pending, however it may have ultimately
resulted, if the holder had no actual notice thereof, and was a purchaser of
them for value before they matured.
3. Where the holder of the coupons, by producing them on the trial, and by other
proof, shows a clear right to recover, and the matters put in evidence by the
county do not tend to defeat that right, it is not error to instruct the jury
to find for him.
4. The doings of a county court of ilssouri can be shown only by its record.
5. Sect. 14, art. 11, of the Constitution of Missouri of 1865 did not take away from
a county the authority, which had been previously conferred by statute, to
subscribe for stock in a railroad company.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This was an action by John F. Shores, a citizen of New
Hampshire, against the county of Macon, in the State of Mis-

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

souri, to recover upon certain overdue coupons, detached from
bonds which had been issued by that county, May 2, 1870,
payable at the National Bank of Commerce in New York City,
May 2, 1890,- the interest payable there semi-annually, upon
presentation of the coupons. The bonds, signed by the presiding
justice and the clerk of the county court, under its seal, recite
that they are "issued under and pursuant to orders of the county
court of Macon County, for subscription to the stock of the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, as authorized by an act
of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled ' An
Act to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company,' approved Feb. 20, 1865." The declaration alleges that
the county paid the interest on the bonds for the year 1870,
and that the coupons sued on were, on their becoming due,
presented at the place where they were payable, and that
payment was refused. It also alleges that the plaintiff is the
holder of the coupons for value.
The county answered, denying that it promised to pay said
bonds; that they were issued pursuant to the orders of the
county court; that the subscription was authorized by law;
that any subscription was made or authorized to be made by
order of the county court; and that the plaintiff was the
holder for value of the coupons sued on. The answer then
avers, in substance, that said bonds and coupons are fraudulent, and were issued in fulfilment of a combination, confederation, and conspiracy, entered into between a majority of the
members of the county court and the railroad company, for
the purpose of cheating and defrauding the county and its taxpayers, and pursuant to a pretended order of said court authorizing, without the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters
of the county, a subscription to the stock of said company, and
the issue of bonds; that the building of the road as contemplated by the charter granted to the company by the act of
Feb. 20, 1865, was "a wild or visionary scheme or enterprise;"
that the company had, at the time'of said pretended subscription, no corporate power or existence, never having organized
or accepted said act of Feb. 20, 1865, within one year, as
required by law, nor did it commence the transaction of its
business within the time prescribed by law for that purpose;
VOL. VII.

18

COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

[Sup. Ct.

that on June 11, 1870, a suit, in which process was duly served,
was commenced in the Circuit Court of Macon County by
two tax-payers, against the county court and the company,
to annul the pretended order of subscription, and cancel the
bonds, and that it was pending and undetermined when the
plaintiff and those under whom he claims purchased the bonds
and coupons; that said subscription not having been made
by the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of the
county, expressed at any election, was repugnant to the Constitution of Missouri; and that the plaintiff had due and full
notice of the foregoing facts when he purchased the bonds and
coupons.
The plaintiff filed a replication, denying all the allegations
of the answer, and averring specially that he was a holder for
value before maturity of the. instruments sued on, without
notice, actual or constructive, of the defences set up.
The plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his part, having produced one of said bonds and all the coupons sued on, the
order of the county court of April 12, 1870, making the subscription, the resolution of the board of directors of the railroad company accepting the same, and the charter of the
company, offered evidence to prove that he was a bona fide
holder and owner for value before maturity of the coupons
sued on, without notice. The county objected to the offered
evidence, but the court admitted it. The county thereupon
excepted.
The county then introduced evidence as to the alleged frauds
and irregularities in issuing the bonds, and offered to prove by
depositions what had taken place in the county court touching
its action respecting said subscription. The plaintiff objected,
on the ground that the proceedings of the court could be proved
only by its record, or a certified copy thereof. The objection
was sustained, and an exception noted.
The county then offered to prove that the company did not,
as required by the statute of Missouri, organize and accept its
charter within one year from the time of granting it; and that,
at the time of making the subscription, the building of the road
was a wild and visionary enterprise. It also offered to read in
evidence the proceedings of public meetings of tax-payers and

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

citizens of various townships in Macon County, held between
April 14 and June 6, 1870, and published in the Macon
"Weekly Times" and the Macon "Weekly Journal," newspapers published in Macon City; to all of which offers the plaintiff objected, and the objection having been sustained by the
court, the county excepted. The county thenread in evidence a
certified copy of the record of the suit against the county court
and the railroad company, referred to in its answer. The evidence having been closed, the court, at the request of the
plaintiff, instructed the jury that the evidence of the county
was insufficient to support the defence, and that he was
entitled to a verdict for the amount of the coupons sued on;
to which instruction the county excepted. The jury returned
a verdict for the plaintiff; and upon the judgment entered
thereon the county sued out this writ, and here assigns for error
that the court below erred 1. In admitting evidence to prove that the plaintiff was a
bona fide holder and owner for value before maturity of the
coupons sued on without notice.
2. In excluding the evidence offered by the defendant at the
trial of the cause.
3. In instructing the jury to find for the plaintiff.
4. In not giving judgment for the defendant.
5. In holding that the county court had authority to subscribe
$175,000 to the capital stock of the Missouri and Mississippi
Railroad Company, on the twelfth day of April, 1870, without
the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of Macon
County.
6. In not holding the subscription void on account of the
fraud, bribery, and corruption by which it was secured, and
the constructive notice thereof which the plaintiff below had.
The act of the General Assembly, mentioned in the bonds,
contains the following section: " S ECT. 18. It shall be lawful for the corporate authorities of any
city or town, the county court of any county desiring so to do, to
subscribe to the capital stock of said company, and may issue bonds
therefor, and levy a tax to pay the same, not to exceed one-twentieth of one per cent upon the assessed value of taxable property foi
each year."

COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

[Sup. Ct.

Sect. 14 of art. 11 of the Constitution of Missouri, which
took effect July 4, 1865, is as follows:"The General Assembly shall not authorize any county, city, or
town to become a stockholder in, or loan its credit to, any company,
association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters
of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to bo
held therein, shall assent thereto."
Mr. James Carrfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. John D. Stevenson, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwA±
delivered the opinion of the court.
The declaration in this case covers a hundred and eleven
printed pages. Each count is upon a coupon averred to have
been detached from a bond for $1,000, issued by the county of
Macon on the 2d of May, 1870, and payable to the Missouri
and Mississippi Railroad Company or bearer, at the National
Bank of Commerce, in the city of New York, on the second
day of May, 1890, with interest at the rate of eight per cent
per annum, to be paid semi-annually on the presentation of the
coupons attached. It is further averred that the bond was
issued pursuant to the orders of the county court of Macon
County, in payment of the subscription to the stock of the
railroad company, and was authorized by the act of the General Assembly of the State, entitled "An act to incorporate
the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, approved
Feb. 20, 1865," and that the bond so recites on its face.
It is also alleged that the defendant paid the interest on the
bond for the year 1870, and that the plaintiff is the holder and
bearer of the coupon for value. There are other averments
which show the liability of the defendant and make the count
good. The further counts are upon coupons taken from other
bonds of the same issue. The counts are all alike mutatis
mutandis.
The defendant filed a multitude of pleas. It is not necessary
particularly to advert to any of them.
Upon the trial the defendant took an elaborate bill of
exceptions.
Our remarks will be confined to the errors assigned.

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

The plaintiff had a right to prove that he was a bona fide
holder of the coupons.
The petition averred the fact. It was denied by the answer.
It is true the presumption of law, prima facie, was that the
plaintiff was such holder. But if he chose to meet the issue
by direct affirmative proof, it was clearly competent for him to
do so,
The testimony tending to show fraud and irregularities
touching the issuing of the bonds and in disposing of them was
properly rejected. The plaintiff being a bona fide holder of the
coupons, it was incompetent to affect his rights. He could not
be expected to know, and was not bound to know, the facts
sought to be established. So far as the testimony respected
the action of the county court, it was liable to the further
objection that a court of record can speak, and its doings can
be shown, only by the record. None of the evidence offered
was of this character. Irrelevant and incompetent testimony
should always be carefully excluded, because the tendency of
both is to mislead and confuse the minds of the jury, and thus
defeat the ends of justice.
The objection that the corporation was not organized within
the time limited by the charter is unavailing. It is in effect a
plea of nul tiel corporation. In KYayser v. Trustees of Bremen
(16 Mo. 88), the Supreme Court of the State said: "It cannot
be shown in defence to a suit of a corporation that the charter
was obtained by fraud; neither can it be shown that the charter has been forfeited by misuser or nonuser. Advantage can
only be taken of such forfeiture by process on behalf of the
State, instituted directly against the corporation for the purpose of avoiding its charter; and individuals cannot avail
themselves of it in collateral suits until it be judicially de.
clared." See also Smith et al. v. County of Clarke (54 Mo.
58), which is to the same effect. This case being a Missouri
case, these authorities are conclusive. Olcott v. Bynum et al.,
17 Wall. 44.
The learned counsel for the plaintiff in error could hardly
have been serious in insisting that proof that the road authorized by the charter to be built "was a wild and visionary
enterprise," and that meetings of tax-payers denouncing the

COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

[Sup. Ct.

stood for
issuing of the bonds was competent in the case as it.
any purpose. No further remark upon the subject is necessary.
The proceedings in Newmeyer et al. v. Missouri J"Mississippi Railroad Co. et al., reported in 52 Mo. 81, offered in evidence, decided nothing finally. The bill of the complainants
was demurred to by the defendants. The demurrer was overruled and the case remanded to the lower court. Whatever
the result, it could not affect the rights of a bona fide purchaser
6f the bonds and coupons without notice.
The objection claimed to arise from the Constitution of 1865
is without foundation. That instrument took effect on the 4th
of July, 1865, and the act of incorporation on the 20th of February of that year. The Constitution looked entirely to the
future. Its language is: "The General Assembly shall not
authorize," &c., . . . " unless two-tbirds of the qualified voters
of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to
be held therein, shall assent thereto." Const. Mo., sect. 14.
art. 11.
The act was in the past. The Constitution, therefore,
had no effect upon it. This point has been so decided by
the Supreme Court of Missouri and by this court, followState of Missouri
ing the adjudication of that tribunal.
v. JMacon County Court, 41 Mo. 453; State ex rel. v. Greene
County et al., 54 id. 540; County of .Henryv. Nicolay, 95 U. S.
619.
The thirteenth section of the charter authorized the bounty
court to subscribe and issue the bonds. No limit is prescribed
either as to the time or amount of the subscription.
The court instructed the jury to find for the plaintiff.
It appears that the evidence is all in the record. The plaintiff had shown a clear right to recover. The defendant had
shown no defence. There was no question for the jury to pass
upon.
Under these circumstances, it is always competent for the
court to instruct accordingly, and it is not error to do so.
jerehants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604; Railroad Company v. Jones, 95 U. S.439.
This court has repeatedly held that where a corporation has

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF MACON V. SHORES.

power under any circumstances to issue such securities, the
bona fide taker has a right to presume they were issued under
circumstances which gave the requisite authority, and that they
are no more liable to be impeached for any infirmity, in the
hands of the bolder, than any other commercial paper. Supervisors v. Sehenck, 5 Wall. 772.
The function of making the subscription and issuing the
bonds was confided to the county court. They had jurisdiction
over the entire subject. They were clothed with the power
and duty to hear and determine. The power was exercised
and the duty performed. In this case, as it is before us, the
result is conclusive, and the county is estopped to deny that
such is its effect. lynde v. The County, 16 Wall. 6.
Where a loss is to be suffered through the misconduct of an
agent, it should be borne by those who put it in his power to
do the wrong, rather than by a stranger. Bern v. Nichols,
1 Salk. 289; Herchants' Bank v. State Banlc, supra.
In Steamboat Company v. Mc Cutehen & Collins (18 Pa. St.
18), the company, which was a corporation, had occupied
for a term agreed upon, as an office, premises belonging to the
other parties. When sued for the rent, the corporation set up
as a defence that the contract was ultra vires, and claimed exemption from liability upon that ground. Coulter, J., in
the opinion of the court affirming the liability, said: "Some
things lie too deep in the common sense and common honesty
of mankind to require either argument or authority to support
them,'and this, I think, is one of them."
Judgment affirmed.

