REPORTS OF THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
OCTOBER TERM, 1878.

STEWAMT V. SALA&iXON.
An appeal from the decree which the Circuit Court passed in exact accordance
with the mandate of this court upon a previous appeal will, upon the motion
of the appellee, be dismissed with costs.
MOTION to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Georgia.
At its October Term, 1876, this court, in Stewart v. Salamom
(94 U. S. 434), reversed the decree of the court below, and
remanded the cause for further proceedings, in accordance with
the opinion then delivered. After the mandate was filed in the
Circuit Court, Stewart and Cutts petitioned for leave to file a
plea of lis pendens, and an amended answer to the original bill.
The petition having been overruled, and a final decree entered
in accordance with the mandate, they appealed here. The
appellees now move to dismiss the appeal.

31r. Philip Phillips in support of the motion.
Mr. Alexander . Stephens and Mr. Charles P. Culver,
contra.

MIR. Cm='

JusTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
An appeal will not be entertained by this court from a decree

STEWART V. SALAMON.

[Sup. Ot.

entered in the circuit or other inferior court, in exact accordance with our mandate upon a previous appeal. Such a
decree, when entered, is in effect our decree, and the appeal
would be from ourselves to ourselves. If such an appeal is
taken, however, we will, upon the application of the appellee,
examine the decree entered, and if it conforms to the mandate,
dismiss the case with costs. If it does not, the case will be
remanded with appropriate directions for the correction of the
error. The same rule applies to writs of error. This is not
intended to interfere with any remedy the parties may have by
mandamus.
This is an appeal from a decree entered upon our mandate.
No complaint is made as to its form, and it seems to be in all
respects according to our directions. The effort of the appellant was to open the case below, and to obtain leave to file new
pleadings, introducing new defences. This he could not do.
The rights of the parties in the subject-matter of the suit were
finally determined upon the original appeal, and all that remained for the Circuit Court to do was to enter a decree in
accordance with our instructions, and carry it into effect. If
in the progress of the execution of the decree, after its
entry, either party is aggrieved, he may appeal from the final
decree in that behalf; but such an appeal will bring up for
re-examination only the proceedings subsequent to the mandate.
The appeal will be dismissed with costs; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE CuIFoRD dissenting.

Second appeals or writs of error, as the case may be, will lie
in certain cases where it is alleged that the mandate of the
appellate court has not been properly executed; but the appeal
or writ of error in -such a case will bring up nothing for reexamination except the proceedings subsequent to the mandate.
Needful explanations may be derived from the original record,
but the re-examination cannot extend to any thing that was
decided in the antecedent appeal or writ of error. The Lady
Pike, 96 U. S. 461; Supervisors v. Kennieott, 94 id. 498;
Himely v. Bose, 5 Cranch, 313; The Santa Maria, 10 Wheat.

Oct. 1878.]

STEWART V. SALA0N.

431; Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Pet. 492; Boberts v. Cooper, 20
How. 481; Tyler v. Mllagwire, 17 Wall. 253.
Authorities to that effect are very numerous, unanimous, and
decisive; but cases coming into this court from the Circuit
Court, under the twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act,
where no question for re-examination is presented, whether
brought here by writ of error or appeal, are not to be treated
like a case with a similar record which comes up from a State
court, under the twenty-fifth section of the same act, for the
reason that it is the writ of error or the appeal which gives
the jurisdiction under the twenty-second section of the act
in all cases where the proceedings in bringing up the record
are correct.
Instead of that, it is the question that gives the jurisdiction
in cases brought here from a State court, under the twenty-fifth
section of the same act. Consequently, in a case which comes
here from a State court, it must appear by the record that some
one of the questions stated in that section arose in the court
below, and that it was determined as there required, otherwise
this court is wholly without jurisdiction, and can only dismiss
the writ of error.
Unlike that, if the case is brought up from a Circuit Court
by writ of error or appeal, it is the writ of error or appeal which
gives this court jurisdiction; and if the proceedings in bringing
up the case are correct, the jurisdiction of the court is beyond
question, and by the express words of the section the Supreme
Court must reverse or affirm. 1 Stat. 84; Taylor v. Morton,
2 Black, 484.
Nor is there any alteration of that provision in that regard,
except that the appellate court may affirm, modify, or reverse
the judgment; the rule still being, that it is the writ of error
or appeal in such cases that gives the jurisdiction, and that
the appellate court can only affirm, modify, or reverse the judgment, or decree, where there is no error in bringing up the case.
17 Stat. 147.
Reported cases almost without number decide that a case
regularly brought up under the twenty-second section of the
Judiciary Act cannot be dismissed because the record presents
no question for re-examination; the universal rule being, that

STEWART v. SALAUION.

[Sup. t

the plaintiff or appellant is entitled to be heard in order that
he may show, if he can, that the error of which he complains
appears in the record; and whether it does so appear or not
cannot be inquired into in the form of a motion to dismiss.
Minor v. Tillotson, 1 How. 287; Stevens v. Gladding & Proud,
19 id. 64; Suydam v. Williamson et al., 20 id. 427.
Parties who sue out writs of error or take appeals for
delay may be subjected to ten per cent damages in addition
to interest, under the present rule of the court, which, in my
judgment, is a much more appropriate remedy for the abuse
of process than the one now prescribed by the majority of the
court.
Writs of error or appeals sued out under the twenty-second
section of the Judiciary Act may be dismissed for irregularities
in bringing the case up; but if the proceedings in bringing the
case up are regular, the court here is always bound to affirm,
modify, 'or reverse the judgment or decree, except in a limited
class of cases, where there has been a mistrial; and even in
that class of cases it is usually necessary to reverse the judgment or decree in order to open the pleadings to a new trial.
Barnes v. Williams, 11 Wheat. 445; Carrington v. Pratt, 18
How. 63; Prentice v. Zane, 8 id. 484.
Judgments or decrees of the Circuit Courts, brought there by
original process, or removed there by writ of error or appeal
from a District Court, where the matter in dispute exceeds the
sum or value of $5,000, exclusive of costs, may be re-examined
and reversed, modified, or affirmed in the Supreme Court.
1 Stat. 84; id. 244; 17 id. 197; 18 id. 316; Rev. Stat., sect.
701.
Certain conditions and proceedings are prescribed for bringing up such judgments and decrees; and if there is any material
error in those proceedings, not amendable, the writ of error or
appeal may be dismissed on that account as if the writ of error
or appeal was not sued out or taken within two years from the
rendition of the judgment or the entering of the decree; or
if error was brought instead of appeal, or appeal instead of
a writ of error, or if the judgment or decree did not exceed
the sum or value of $5,000, the writ of error or appeal may be
dismissed.

Oct. 1878.]

ARTHUR V. ]MoLLER.

Cases of the kind frequently occur; but if the case is well
brought up, and the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value
of S5,000, the writ of error or appeal, if sued out or taken
within two years from date of the judgment or decree, gives
this court jurisdiction to re-examine the alleged error or errors;
and the act of Congress requires that this court shall reverse,
modify, or affirm the judgment or decree.
Experience shows that eases are sometimes brought up for
delay; but the remedy provided by Congress for such an abuse
of process is that the Supreme Court may award to the respondent just damages for his delay, and single or double costs, in
their discretion. 1 Stat. 84.
Beyond doubt, the record shows that the decree in this case
was for the sum of $12,280, and that the appeal was taken on
the day the decree was entered, and that there was no irregularity in bringing up the case. Nor is any thing of the kind
pretended. Instead of that, the only objection is that it is a
second appeal, which is not a valid objection.

ARTHUR v. MOLLER.
Certain chromo-lithographs, printed from oil-stones upon paper, and known as
decalcomanie pictures, were imported. Held, that they were, as printed
papers, subject, under sect. 2504 of the Revised Statutes, to a duty of twentyfive per cent ad valorem.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The question involved in this case is, whether certain articles imported by the defendants, Charles Moller and Paul E.
Vacquerel, into the port of New York, known as decalcomanie
pictures, are subject to duties as "printed matter," or as
"manufactures of paper, or of which paper is a component
material, not otherwise provided for." 12 Stat. 192; 13 id.
218; Rev. Stat., p. 474, sect. 2504, also p. 479.
The statutes impose the duties in the language following;
niz., On "books, periodicals, pamphlets, blank-books, bound

