Oct. 1878.]

O .OSMERV. WALLACE.

The number and variety of their systems of taxation and
lines of territorial division necessitating customs officials at
every step the traveller took or merchandise was transported,
became so intolerable, that a commercial, though not a political union was organized, called the German Zollverein. The
great value of this became so apparent, and the community of
interest so strongly felt in regard to commerce and traffic, that
the first appropriate occasion was used by these numerous principalities to organize the common political government now
known as the German Empire.
While there is, perhaps, no special obligation on this court
to defend the wisdom of the Constitution of the United States,
there is the duty to ascertain the purpose of its provisions, and
to give them full effect when called on by a proper case to
a0 so.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania will be
reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings, in
onformity with this opinion; and it is

So ordered.

Hosm:ER v. WALLACE.
L.Pending a proceeding in a tribunal of the United States, for the confirmation of a claim to lands in California, under a Mexican grant, no portion
of them embraced within the boundaries designated in the grant is open
to settlement, under the pre-emption laws, although, upon the final survey of the claim when confirmed, there may be a surplus within those
boundaries.
I. Until a segregation of the quantity granted is made by an approved official
survey, third parties cannot interfere with the grantee's possession of the
lands, and limit it to any particular place within those boundaries.
. Between March 1, 1856, and May 80, 1862, unsurveyed public lands in California were not subject to settlement under the pre-emption laws. Since
the latter date, they, as well as surveyed lands, have been so subject.
• The right of pre-emption only inures in favor of a claimant when he has performed the conditions of actual settlement, inhabitation, and improvement.
As he cannot perform them when the land is occupied by another, his right
of pre-emption does not extend to it.
* The object of the seventh section of the act of July 23, 1866 (14 Stat. 218),
"to quiet land-titles in California," was to withdraw from the general operation of the pre-emption laws lands continuously possessed and improved

HIosumrEm

V. WALLACE.

[Sup. Ct.

by a purchaser under a Mexican grant, which was subsequently rejected,
or limited to a less quantity than that embraced in the boundaries designated, and to give to him, to the exclusion of all other claimants, the right
to obtain the title.
6. A "bona fide pre-emption claimant" is one who has settled upon lands subject to pre-emption, with the intention to acquire them, and who, in order
to perfect his right to them, has complied, or is proceeding to comply, in
good faith with the requirements of the pre-emption laws.

EREOR to the Supreme Court of California.
This was a suit to charge the defendant, as trustee of certain
land in California, and to compel him to transfer the title to
the plaintiff. The District Court of the State, in which it was
brought, rendered judgment for the defendant. The Supreme
Court of the State affirmed it, and the plaintiff has brought the
case here. The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion.
Mr. S. P. Leib for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. George A. Yourse, contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant has a patent of the United States for certain
land in the county of Santa Clara, in the State of California.
The plaintiff claims that he has an equitable right to the land
by virtue of his settlement thereon, and subsequent proceedings
under the pre-emption laws; and therefore seeks to charge the
defendant as trustee of the title for his benefit, and to compel
its transfer to him.
It appears from the record that the premises are within the
boundaries of a grant made by the former government of Mlexico
to one Estrada. The grants of that government in California
were sometimes of tracts with defined boundaries, and sometimes of places by name where the boundaries were known and
could be readily identified; but more frequently they were of a
specified quantity of land within boundaries embracing a larger
amount, to be measured off and segregated by magistrates of
the vicinage. A grant of the latter class was usually in form
of the entire tract within the boundaries mentioned, with a
condition limiting its extent to the quantity specified, the surplus after the measurement being reserved for the use of the
nation. The grantee could not measure off the quantity thus

Oct. 1878.]

O

8OSMER V. WALLACE.

specified so as to bind the government. This could be done
only by its officers, pursuant to regulations established for that
purpose. Until the segregation was thus made, no third person
could interfere with the grantee's possession, and attempt to
limit it to any particular place within the boundaries designated.
Soon after the acquisition of California, Congress provided
by law for an examination of the various grants of land made
by the former government, the confirmation of such as were
found to be valid and entitled to recognition, the survey and
measurement of the tracts or quantities granted, and the issue
of patents to the confirmees. And in order that these proceedings might not be defeated, and that the rights of the grantees
in the mean time should not be impaired or embarrassed by
the settlement of others, upon pretence that the grants were
invalid, or that there was a surplus within their boundaries
over the quantity granted, which could be appropriated, the
lands claimed under these grants were excepted from the
operation of the pre-emption laws, when they were extended
over the State.
In the investigations thus authorized, many grants supposed
to be valid were rejected; and in numerous instances land
purchased from the grantees and improved was excluded by
the surveys from the tracts confirmed. To meet the hardships
thus arising, and to enable purchasers in good faith and for
value to hold the tracts improved by them, Congress, in an act
passed on the 23d of July, 1866, to quiet the title to lands in
California, provided as follows: "That where persons in good faith and for a valuable consideration have purchased land of Mexican grantees or assigns, which
grants have subsequently been rejected, or where the lands so
purchased have been excluded from the final survey of any Mexican
grant, and have used, improved, and continued in the actual possession of the same according to the lines of their original purchase,
and where no valid adverse right or title (except of the United
States) exists, such purchasers may purchase the same, after having
such lands surveyed under existing laws, at the minimum price
established by law, upon first making proofs of the facts as required
in this section, under regulations to be provided by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office." 14 Stat. 220, sect. 7.
VOL. V11.

37

HOSmER V. WALLACE.

[Sup. Cf.

In the present case, it appears that prior to February, 1862,
Estrada, the original grantee of the Mexican government, sold
to one Lyons his right to a portion of the land within the
boundaries mentioned in his grant, embracing the premises in
controversy; that previously, in October, 1856, the plaintiff
had settled upon these premises, and erected a house thereon,
claiming that he made the settlement under the pre-emption
laws of the United States; that, in February, 1862, he was
evicted from them by the sheriff of the county under a judgment in ejectment recovered by Lyons; and that thereupon
he removed his house and improvements to adjacent land.
After this eviction, the defendant purchased from Lyons his
right under the grant to the premises, and has ever since
been in their actual possession and use. The grant had been
previously confirmed, but for a less quantity than that contained
within the boundaries mentioned; and upon the final survey,
which was approved in June, 1865, after the defendant's purchase, these premises were excluded. The public surveys were
subsequently extended over the land, and in July, 1866, the
plaintiff filed a declaratory statement in the proper land-office,
claiming to pre-empt the premises together with other land,
alleging his settlement thereon in October, 1856, and in September following made proof of his claim. before the register
and receiver, and was allowed to enter the land. He then paid
the purchase-money and obtained a certificate of payment. In
the mean time, the act of July 23, 1866, was passed, and under
it the defendant claimed the right to purchase the premises.
The Commissioner of the General Land-Office thereupon directed the register and receiver at San Francisco to investigate the entry of the plaintiff, and to take such testimony as
might be offered by him and the defendant concerning their
respective claims, and to report the same to him, together with
their decision. Both parties appeared before these officers and
supported their respective claims. The decision of the officers
was in favor of the plaintiff; the defendant appealed to the
commissioner, by whom the decision was reversed, and the land
awarded to him. On further appeal to the Secretary of the
Interior, the decision of the commissioner was affirmed; and,
upon payment of the purchase-money, a patent was issued to
the defendant.

Oct. 1878.]

HOSmER V. WALLACE.

The decision of the Commissioner and of the Secretary was
clearly correct. The plaintiff had acquired by his settlement
in 1856 no such interest in the premises as could control the
disposition of them by the United States, should it be ultimately
determined that they were .not covered by the grant. The
land within the boundaries of the grant was not open to settlement under the pre-emption laws; and his occupation from
1856 to his eviction in 1862 was that of a trespasser, and did
not originate any rights which the government was bound to
respect. The land was not then "public land," in the sense
of those laws; and even if it had been public land, to which
no private claim was made, it would not have been subject to
settlement under them until it had been surveyed. The act
of Congress of March 3, 1853, allowing a settlement on unsurveyed lands in California, was limited in its operation to one
year. 10 Stat. 246, proviso to sect. 6. 13y the act of March
1, 1854, this privilege was extended for two years from that
J.ate, when it expired. Id. 268. No other statute was passed
opening unsurveyed lands in California to pre-emption settlement until May 30, 1862. 12 id. 409. The occupation, therefore, of the plaintiff in October, 1856, was a mere intrusion
upon the claim of another, without any license of the government; and after he was evicted by legal process in February,
1862, the premises were in the possession of the defendant, and
therefore not open to settlement by him. Whatever right of
pre-emption the plaintiff acquired by his settlement to land
outside of the boundaries of the Mexican grant originated after
May 80, 1862; but as to land withn those boundaries, no right
could be initiated until the land was excluded from the tract
confirmed by the approved survey in June, 1865. In neither
case could the right of pre-emption extend to land in the occupation of the defendant at those dates. To create a right of
pre-emption there must be settlement, inhabitation, and improvement by the pre-emptor, conditions which cannot be met
when the land is in the occupation of another. Settlement,
inhabitation, and improvement of one piece of land can confer
no rights to another adjacent to it, which at the commencement
of the settlement is in the possession and use of others, though
upon a subsequent survey by the government it prove to be

HOSDIER V. WALLACE.

[Sup. Ot.

part of the same sectional subdivision. Under the pre-emption
laws, as held in Atherton v. Fowler (96 U. S. 513), the right
to make a settlement is to be exercised on unsettled land; the
right to make improvements is to be exercised on unimproved
land; and the right to erect a dwelling-house is to be exercised
on vacant land: none of these things can be done on land when
it is occupied and used by others.
There was, therefore, no valid adverse right or title, except
that of the United States, to the premises in controversy when
they were excluded by the approved survey from the tract
confirmed; nor had the plaintiff the right of a pre-emption
claimant to them. No just ground, consequently, existed for
refusing to the defendant the privilege of purchasing them
under the act of 1866. It is found by the court that he bought
the land, in good faith and for a valuable consideration, from
the assignee of the Mexican grantee before the survey of the
grant; and that it has since been in his actual possession and
use, according to the lines of his original purchase. And
besides, the use, occupation, and improvement of the land,
required by that act, being matters for the determination of
the officers of the Land Department, it must be presumed from
their decision that they were sufficiently established.
The contention of the plaintiff, if we understand it, is that
the proviso in the eighth section of the act of 1866 changed the
doctrine stated, and gave him a right of pre-emption to land
excluded by the survey from the tract confirmed, although it
was at the time in the occupation of the defendant. The
proviso is, that nothing in tle act "shall be construed so as in
any manner to interfere with the right of bona fide pre-emption
claimants;" and it is argued that some operation must have
been intended to be given it, and that it can have none against
a purchase by the claimant under the grant title, unless a preemption right could be acquired to the land whilst in his possession. Conceding this to be correct, we do not perceive that
the conclusion follows for which the plaintiff contends. If the
proviso can have no operation against a purchase by a claimant
under the grant title, it is for the obvious reason that the
conditions upon which the claimant can make a purchase are
incompatible with those upon which a pre-emption right can

Oct. 1878.]

NEWCOmB V. WOOD.

arise. The inference is, that the proviso must be applied to
other land which the act mentions. The object of the act was
to withdraw land continuously possessed and improved by a
purchaser under a 'Mexican grant from the general operation
of the pre-emption laws, and to give to him, to the exclusion of
all other claimants, the right to obtain the title. That it was
competent for Congress to deal with the land as it chose does
not admit *of question. No vested rights in the land could be
acquired by any one until it was open to settlement; nor afterwards, unless the pre-emptor made his entry and obtained a
patent certificate before the passage of the act. Prisbie v.
Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; The Yosemite Valley Case, 15 id. 77.
The term bonafide, as applied to the pre-emption claimant,
does not change the qualifications of such claimant, nor the
conditions upon which, under the general law, a settlement
with a view to pre-emption is permitted. It was intended to
designate one who had settled upon land subject to pre-emption, with the intention to acquire its title, and had complied,
or was proceeding to comply, in good faith, -with the requirements of the law to perfect his right to it. The plaintiff does
not come within this class.
Judgment affirmed.

NEwcOmrB v.

WOOD.

1. The power, with the consent of the parties, to appoint referees, and refer to
them a pending cause, is incident to all judicial administration, where the
right e-xists to ascertain the facts as well as to pronounce the law.
2. Any issues in an action, whether they be of fact or of law, may be so referred
by sect. 281 of the Code of Ohio.
8. A party who goes to trial before referees, without requiring an oath to be
administered to them, waives any objection to the omission of such oath.
4. The fact that an award was signed by only two of three referees was not
called to the attention of the court when their report was confirmed and
judgment rendered thereon. Hedd, that it furnishes no ground for reversing
the judgment.
5. The fifth section of the act of Congress of June 1, 1872 (17 Stat. 197), was not
intended to abrogate the established law of- the courts of the United States,
that to grant or refuse a new trial rests in the sound discretion of the court
to which the motion is addressed, and that the result cannot be made the
subject of review by writ of error.

