SHILLABER v. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

made, to determine for himself what he will do with it. He
may pay or reject it; he may submit to arbitration, open his
own courts to suit, or consent to be tried in the courts of
another nation. All depends upon himself." United States v.
Diekelman, 92 U. S. 520. This was the only right Collie had
when his cotton was taken, and the United States have never
consented to grant him any other. While the President. by
his pardon, may restore lost rights, it has never been supposed
that in such a way he can grant new ones.
It may be that foreigners who have given aid and comfort to
the enemies of the United States are in equity as much entitled
to the privileges of the act as the pardoned enemies themselves ;
but that is for Congress to determine, and not for us. We
have decided that the pardon closes the eyes of the courts to
the offending acts, or, perhaps more properly, furnishes conclusive evidence that they never existed as against the government. It is with the legislative department of the government,
not the judicial, to say whether the same rule shall be applied
in cases where there can be no pardon by the President. A
pardon of an offence removes the offending act out of sight; but,
if there is no offence in the eye of the law, there can be no
pardon. Consequently, the acts which are not extinguished by
a pardon remain to confront the actor.
Judgment affirmed.
Mr. JusTIC E FIELD dissented.

SHILLABER V. ROB11%TSO1T.
1. A deed of land, with a power of sale, to secure the payment of a debt, whether
made to the creditor or a third person, is, in equity, a mortgage, if there is
left a right to redeem on payment of such debt.
2. Sales under such a power have no validity unless made in strict conformity to
the prescribed directions. Therefore, a sale made on a notice of six weeks,
instead of twelve, as required by the mortgage and the statute of the State
where the lands are situate, is absolutely void, and does not divest the right
of redemption.
3. A person holding the strict legal title, with no otnez right than a lien for a
given sum, who sells the land to innocent purchasers, must account to the
owners of the equity of redemption for all he receives beyond that sum.

Oct. 1877.]

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
The original transaction, which gave rise to the present suit,
was a sale by John Shillaber of about three thousand acres of
land, in the State of Illinois, to John Robinson, the appellee.
The contract was evidenced by a written agreement, by which
it appears that Robinson, in part payment of the Illinois land,
was to convey to Shillaber three different parcels of land, lying
in the State of New York, - one in Kings, one in Sullivan,
and one in Essex, County.
On this contract, a suit, in the nature of a bill for specific
performance, was brought, in the Circuit Court of Ogle County,
Illinois, by Robinson against Shillaber. The latter having
subsequently died, his sole heir, Theodore Shillaber, was sub
stituted as defendant. The suit resulted in a decree which,
among other things, established an indebtedness of Shillaber
to Robinson, on final accounting, of .$4,249.58; and ordered
that, on the payment of this sum, Robinson should convey to
Shillaber the lands in New York, already mentioned. In order
that the whole matter should be finally disposed of, the decree
then ordered that Robinson and wife should make and deposit
with the clerk of the court a good and sufficient conveyance
for said lands, as an escrow, to be delivered to Shillaber on his
payment of the sum aforesaid within ninety days. It further
provided that, if the money was not paid by Shillaber within
that time, Robinson should convey the lands, in trust, to Silas
Noble, who "should proceed to sell the same, in such manner,
and after giving such reasonable notice of the time and place
of such sale, as might be usual or provided by law in the State
of New York;" and out of the proceeds pay the expenses of
the trust and the money due Robinson, with interest, and hold
the remainder, if any, subject to the order of the court.
Shillaber did not pay the money as ordered by the decree.
Robinson then made the deed of trust to Noble, in strict accordance with the terms of the decree; and Noble, after giving
notice of sale, by publication once a week for six weeks successively in the "Brooklyn Standard," sold, at public auction, on
the sixteenth day of March, 1861, the lands to John A. Robinson, for the sum of .$1,950, and male to him a conveyance of

SHILLABER

v.

ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ot.

the same, Said John A Robinson purchased the lands for the
benefit of John Robinson. Neither the deed from John Robinson to Noble, nor that from the latter to John A. Robinson,
was placed upon record.
Since that time, and before the commencement of the present
suit, John Robinson sold all these lands to divers and sundry
individuals, for sums amounting in the aggregate to $9,628.
The present suit was commenced in November, 1870, in the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of New York, by Theodore Shillaber against John Robinson, requiring him to account
for the value of the New York lands, on the ground that he
had never acquired any other title to them than that which he
held when the decree of the Illinois court was made, and that,
since the purchasers from him were innocent purchasers, without notice of Shillaber's rights, their title was perfect, and
Robinson was liable to him on a final settlement for the value
of the lands, less the sum which Shillaber owed him, as ascertained by the decree in the Illinois court.
The court, on hearing, dismissed the bill; whereupon Shillaber appealed here.
The provisions of the New York Revised Statutes, regarding
notice, are as follows :"ScT. 8. Notice that such mortgage will be foreclosed by a sale

of the mortgaged premises, or some part of them, shall be given as
follows "(1.) By publishing the same for twelve weeks successively, at
least once in each week, in a newspaper printed in the county
where the premises intended to be sold shall be situated, or, if such
premises shall be situated in two. or more counties, in a newspaper
printed in either of them.
"(2.) By affixing a copy of such notice, at least twelve weeks
prior to the time therein specified for the sale, on the outward door
of the building where the county courts are directed to be held, in
the county where the premises are situated; or, if there be two or
more such buildings, then on the outward door of that which shall
be nearest th. premises. And by delivering a copy of such notice,
at least twelve weeks prior to the time therein specified for the sale,
to the clerk of the county in which the mortgaged premises are
situated, who shall immediately affix the same in a book prepared
and kept by him for that purpose; and who shall also enter in said

Oct. 1877.]

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

book, at the bottom of such notice, the time of receiving and affixing the same, duly subscribed by said clerk, and shall index such
notice to the name of the mortgagor; for which service the clerk
shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents.
" (3.) By serving a copy of such notice, at least fourteen days
prior to the time therein specified for the sale, upon the mortgagor
or his personal representatives, and upon the subsequent grantees
and mortgagees of the premises, whose conveyance and mortgage
shall be upon record at the time of the first publication of the notice, and upon all persons having a lien by or under a judgment or
decree upon the mortgaged premises, subsequent to such mortgage,
personally, or by leaving the same at their dwelling-house in charge
of some person of suitable age, or by serving a copy of such notice
upon said persons at least twenty-eight days prior to the time
therein specified for the sale, by depositing the same in the postoffice, properly folded, and directed to the said persons at their
respective places of residence."
Mr. Afie1tael H. Cardozo for the appellant.
Robinson must account, as trustee, for all the money which
he received on the sales of the New York land, together with
interest thereon, from the respective times at which they were
made.
The decree of the Illinois court stated an account between
the parties then before it, and charged Shillaber with the full
contract price of the New York lands. This constituted a payment, and passed the equitable title to him, leaving the bare
legal title in Robinson, he holding the lands in trust for the
complainant. Hill, Trustees, p. 171; Bispham, Principles of
Equity, sects. 95, 364.
That decree changed the status of each of the several parties,
and from it all their rights and liabilities arise. By it, specific
performance was enforced; the Illinois lands were transferred
directly to Robinson, and the New York lands to Shillaber;
and this, though the court had no jurisdiction over the subjectmatter, provided it had jurisdiction of the person. Massey v.
Watts, 6 Cranch, 148; Northern Indiana Railroad Co. v. Afiehigan Central Railroad Co., 15 How. 233; Brown v. Desmond,
100 Mass. 267; Penn v. Lord Baltimore, 1 Yes. 444; Fry,
Specific Performance, sect. 63; Pennoyerv. Neff, 95 U. S. 353.
A court of equity of competent jurisdiction can adjust the

SHILLABER v. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

equities of the parties before it, and, in accordance with a familiar principle, it regards that which is agreed to be done as
already performed. Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 64; Hill, Trustees,
supra; Francis's Maxims, 18; 1 Fonb. Eq., bk. 1, c. 6, sect. 9..
The court, in so adjusting the equities, adjudged that Robinson should not be required to convey the New York lands to
Shillaber, without some security or lien thereon for the payment to him of the balance found due by the decree.
The general intention was to constitute Robinson a mortgagee, and Shillaber a mortgagor, of the lands in question; and it
is a leading maxim of construction, that the intention of the
parties is the controlling element. Mitchell v. Tilghman, 19
Wall. 887, 395; Shays v. Norton, 48 Ill. 100.
The terms "trust-deed" and "mortgage" are used in Illinois and other Western States, if not synonymously, at least
interchangeably. Hoffman v. Hackall, 5 Ohio St. 124; Ingle
v. Culbertson, 48 Iowa, 265; HcQuie v. Peay, 58 Mo. 56;
Adams & Durham's Real Estate Statutes and Decisions of Illinois, 202, 1702; Pardee v. Lindley, 31 Ill. 174; Wilson v.
MeDowall, 78 id. 514.
The distinction is, at most, a technicality. Wilkins v.
Wright, 6 McLean, 340. It is laid down by more than one
authority of weight that a "deed of trust in the nature of a
mortgage" is, in legal effect, the same as a "mortgage."
Jones, Mortgages, sects. 60, 62, 1769; Southern Law Review,
W. s. vol. iii. p. 712; Hoffman v. Hliackall, supra; Woodruff v.
Robb, 19 Ohio, 212; Coe v. Johnson, 18 Ind. 218; Coe v.
MeBrown, 22 id. 252; Newman v. Samuels, 17 Iowa, 528; Ingle
v. Cuthbertson, 43 id. 265; Sargent v. Howe, 21 Ill. 148; Eaton
v. Whiting, 3 Pick. (Mass.) 484; Lenox v. Reed, 12 Kans. 223;
Turner v. Watkins, 31 Ark. 429; In re Bondholders of York
4. Cumberland Railway, 50 Me. 552; Palmer v. Gurnsey,
7 Wend. (N. Y.) 248 ; Lawrence v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co.,
13 N. Y. 200; Corpman v. Baceastow, Sup. Ct. of Penn. 1877,
5 N. Y. Weekly Digest, 204; Dillon, J., in 2 Am. Law Reg.
N. s. 648.
In equity, any deed, although an absolute conveyance in
terms, if it be devised for the purpose of securing the payment
of money, is a mortgage. Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489;

Oct. 1877.]

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

Conway s Ex'rs v. Alexander, 7 Cranch, 218 ; Villa v. Rodriguez,
12 Wall. 323; Flagg v. Mann, 2 Sumn. 486; Coote, Law of
Mortgages, p. 11; Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1018. Doubtful instruments are so construed. Bright v. Wagle, 3 Dana (Ky.),
252; Edrngton v. H1arper,3 J. J. Marsh. (Ky.) 354; Conway's
-Ex'rsv. Alexander, supra; Holmes v. Grant, 8 Paige (N. Y.),
Ch. 243; Horn v. Keteltas, 46 N. Y. 605.
There are, under the laws of New York, three methods of
foreclosing a mortgage. Since the judicial proceedings in Illinois demand that the "trust-deed " be construed as such an
instrument, either one of these methods must be adopted for
that purpose, or the equity of redemption remains. They are:
by the decree of a competent court; or by the proceedings
prescribed in pt. iii. c. 8, tit. 15, of the New York Revised
Statutes, commonly called foreclosure by advertisement; or by
lapse of time, as by the failure of the mortgagor to enforce his
remedy against a mortgagee in possession for more than twenty
years, by analogy to the Statute of Limitations. Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489; Demarest v. Wynkcoop, 3 Johns. (N. Y.)
Ch. 129; Lawrence v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 13 N. Y. 200.
It is not pretended by Robinson that proceedings in conformity with any of these requirements were taken to foreclose
Shillaber's equity of redemption.
Noble was, by the provisions of the decree and deed, directed
to give such reasonable notice as is usual or provided by law in
New York. "Usual" must be regarded as identical with
"provided by law."
"Or" has the same meaning as "and," when such a con
struction is necessary to effectuate the intention of the parties. Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes, 216 ; Potter's
Dwarris. on Statutes and Constructions, 286, 292; Fowle7
v. Padget, 7 T. R. 509; Roome v. Phillips, 24 N. Y. 463
Arnold v. Buffum, 2 Mas. 208.
Trustees are bound to comply strictly with the requirements
of the instrument originating and defining their power and
authority. 1 Hilliard, Mortgages, 143; Hill, Trustees, 474;
Thornton v. Boynton, 31 Ill. 200; Hull v. Towne, 45 id. 493
Griffin v. .t1arine Co., 52 id. 130; Strother v. Law, 54 id. 413,
Jencks v. Alexander, 11 Paige (N. Y.), Ch. 619; Tarasco.

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

[sup. CL

v. Ormsby, 3 Litt. (Ky.) 404 ; Wallis v. Thornton, 2 Brock. 422 ;
Gray v. Shaw, 14 Mo. 341; Smith v. Proven, 4 Allen (Mass.),
516; Roche v. Farnsworth,106 Mass. 509.
Courts of equity are adverse to, and have ever been suspicious of, sales under a power in mortgages or trust-deeds,
without notice to the mortgagor; and special requirements of
notice in the deed itself, or the instrument originating the
trust, have been enforced with the utmost rigor. Anonymous,
6 Madd. Ch. 10; Gill v. Newton, 12 Jur. N. s. 220; ilfajor
v. Ward, 5 Hare, 598; Longwith v. Butler, 3 Gilm. (Ill.) 32;
Taraseon v. Ormsby, 3 Litt. (Ky.) 404; Flower v. .Elwood, 66
II. 438; Bigler v. ITaller, 14 Wall. 297; Jones, Mortgages,
sect. 1822.
It is not necessary to make out a case of fraudulent connivance between Noble and the defendant, in order to entitle the
appellant to the account which he desires. The appellee is a
mortgagee in possession of the lands, and, as a trustee for the
complainant, is bound to take the greatest care of the interests of the latter. When called on for an accounting, he must
show that he has faithfully performed the duties of a trustee,
in relation to the property. Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 1016; Bigler v. Waller, 14 Wall. 297; Russell v. iSouthard, 12 How. 139.
Had Robinson not sold and conveyed the property to innocent purchasers, Shillaber, on paying Robinson the amount due
under the decree of the Illinois court, would have an unquestionable right to the lands.
Even if the deed made by Robinson to Noble be regarded as
creating an express trust, under the New York Statutes, for the
sale of land, Robinson, in the absence of an express permission
by the instrument originating the alleged trust, could not, under the circumstances of this case, acquire title by such a sale,
directly or indirectly. Fulton v. Whitney, 66 N. Y. 548; Blake
v. Buffalo Creek Railroad Co., 56 N. Y. 485; Case v. Carroll,
35 N. Y. 385; Gardnerv. Ogden, 22 id. 327; Colburn v. Morton,
3 Keyes, 296; Conger v. Bing, 11 Barb. (N. Y.) 356; Van Epps
v. Van Epps, 9 Paige (N. Y.), Ch. 237; Davoue v. Fanning,
2 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 252; Bergen v. Bennett, I Cai. (N. Y.)
Cas. 11, 13, 20; Michoud v. Girod, 4 How. 503; Bingo v.
Binns, 10 Pet. 269; Lockett v. Hill, 1 Wood, 552; Dexter v.

Oct. 1877.]

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

Shepard, 117 Mass. 480; Dyer v. Shurtleff, 112 id. 165; 31ontague v. Dawes, 12 Allen (Mass.), 397; s. c. 14 id. 869; Benham v. Bowe, 2 Cal. 386; Parmenter v. Walker, 9 R. I. 225,
Ex parte Bennett, 10 Yes. 381; Coles v. Trecothiek, 9 id. 234;
Ex parte HMughes, 6 id. 617; 2 Washburn, Real Prop. 79;
Sugden, Vendors and Purchasers, c. 20, sect. 2, par. 1.
This rule embraces trustees, mortgagees, and all other persons sustaining a fiduciary relation, their agents or assignees.
Hill, Trustees, 159, 160; apps v. Sharp, 32 Ill. 13; Waite v.
ennison, 51 id. 319.
Although the courts have, in a few cases ( Coles v. Trecothlek,
9 Ves. 234; Howard v. Davis, 6 Tex. 174), held that sales so
made were valid, it was only when a marked spirit of fairness
pervaded the entire transaction, and due care was taken to preserve the rights of all interested; and so careful are they to
guard safely the interest of beneficiaries, that wherever any
attempt to act unfairly, to stifle competition, or in any manner
to take undue advantage of the fiduciary has been made, such
sales have been set aside, provided innocent third parties would
not suffer thereby. Longwith v. Butler, 3 Gilm. (Va.) 32;
Grffin v. Marine Company, 52 Ill. 180; Plower v. Bilwood,
66 id. 436; Sugden, Vendors and Purchasers, c. 20, sect. 2,
par. 1.
-r. Philip S. Crooke and Mr. John H. Bergen, contra.
The trust-deed to Noble of the property created a valid trust,
under the statutes of New York (Corse v. Leggett, 25 Barb.
389; Sedgwik- v. Stanton, 20 id. 473; 2 Rev. Stat. N. Y. 355,
sub. 1 & 2, vol. i., Edmund's ed. p. 677 ), which allow an express trust, 1, to sell lands for the benefit of creditors; and, 2,
to sell, mortgage, or lease lands, for the benefit of legatees, or
for the purpose of satisfying any charge thereon.
Robinson was a creditor of Shillaber under the decree of the
Illinois court; and the amount due was made a charge and
lien on the property, which was sold by Noble to John A. Robinson for the appellee, and not to the appellee; although the
latter, not occupying any fiduciary relation either to Noble or
Shillaber, had a perfect right to purchase. The authorities
cited by the appellant in support of his position, that the ap-.
pellee cvild not acquire a title at Noble's sale, are all instances

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

[Sup. ot.

where a trustee was the purchaser of the trust property, and
have, therefore, no bearing upon this case.
Reference to the statutes of Illinois is not necessary, although
this was a valid trust in that State (Stats. of Illinois, Cross,
3d ed., 1869, vol. i. p. 84, sect. 3); for it is a well-settled prin.
ciple that the law of the State where the land lies determines
the construction of instruments affecting it. As the trust-deed
covered lands in New York, and was by its terms to be there
performed, the law of that State must govern it. Smith v.
Smith, 2 Johns. (N. Y.) 235; Thompson v. Keteham, 4 id. 285;
Hyqde v. Goodnow, 3 N. Y. 266; Bowen v. Newell, 13 id. 290;
10 id. 436; 33 id. 615. It vested the fee of the land in the
trustee, subject to the trust (Noy1 es v. Blakeman, 6 N. Y. 578);
and where the trust was executed by his sale of the land, either
with or without notice, a valid and unincumbered title passed
to the purchaser. Belmont v. O'Brien, 12 N. Y. 405.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The principal, in fact the only, defence which merits any
consideration in this case, is that by the trust-deed which Robinson made to Noble under the decree of the court, and by the
sale which Noble made in conformity to the terms of the
decree, and of that deed, Shillaber's rights were completely
divested in the land; and since it did not bring, at that
sale, as much money as was due to Robinson, which, by the
terms of both the decree and the deed of trust, was to be paid
to him out of the proceeds of that sale, nothing was left for
Shillaber in the matter.
The decree in the Illinois suit, in which Theodore Shillaber
had appeared after his father's death, is binding and conclusive
on both parties. The deed of trust made by Robinson to Noble
is in accordance with the decree, and conferred an authority ol
him to sell the land. The purpose of this sale, as expressed in
the deed of trust and the decree, was to pay to Robinson the
$4,249.58, which was a first lien on the land, and the balance
into the court, for the use of Shillaber.
Much discussion has been had in the case as to the nature of
the conveyance to Noble, one party insisting that it is a simple

Oct. 1877.]

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

mortgage with power of sale, and the other that it is, under the
statutes of New York, the creation of a valid trust in lands.
The point of this discussion is found in the question, whether
the sale by Noble, under that instrument, was valid or was
void. The counsel of defendant insists that Noble became
vested with a perfect title to the land by the deed of Robinson,
and that his sale and conveyance are valid whether he pursued
the direction of the deed in regard to advertising or not; and
that, if any such advertising were necessary, there was no usual
notice, nor any provided by law, for such sales in the State of
New York.
It is shown by the evidence that Noble did publish a notice
that the three pieces of land in the three different counties
would be sold on a day mentioned, at Montague Hall, in the
city of Brooklyn. This notice was published, for six weeks
preceding the day appointed for the sale, in the "Brooklyn
Standard," a weekly paper printed in Kings County. But the
statutes of New York, then in force, prescribed publication of
such notice for twelve weeks successively before the sale.
If the instrument under which Noble acted is a mortgage
with power of sale, it is beyond dispute that the sale is void,
because it was not made in conformity with the terms on which
alone he was authorized to sell. That the sale, under such
circumstances, is void, is too well established to admit of controversy. We refer specially to the recent case in this court
of Bigler v. Waller, 14 Wall. 302. The list of authorities cited
by the appellant are to the same effect.
Without entering into the argument of the question whether
the instrument under which Noble acted is in all respects a
mortgage, the case of Lawrence v. The Farmers' Loan & Trust
Co. (13 N. Y. 200), shows that it is an instrument which, for the
purposes of the sale under the power which it contains, comes
under the provisions of the statute we have cited as regards
publication of notice. It also decides that a sale made without
such notice is void. It is the well-settled doctrine of courts of
equity, that a conveyance of land, for the purpose of securing
payment of a sum of money, is a mortgage, if it leaves a right
to redeem upon payment of the debt. If there is no power of
sale, the equity of redemption remains until it is foreclosed by

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

a suit in chancery, or by some other mode recognized by law.
If there is a power of sale, whether in the creditor or in some
third person to whom the conveyance is made for that purpose,
it is still in effect a mortgage, though in form a deed of trust,
and may be foreclosed by sale in pursuance of the terms in
which the power is conferred, or by suit in chancery. These
instruments generally give specific directions regarding the
notice to be given, and of the time, place, and terms of the
sale. In some States, the statute prescribes the manner of giving this notice, and in such case it must be complied with.
In either case, the validity of the sale being wholly dependent
on the power conferred by the instrument, a strict pompliance
with its terms is essential.
If this is not a mortgage to which the notice of the New
York statute is applicable, we do not see that the defendant's
position is improved by that circumstance; for there is, then, no
provision for a sale or foreclosure of the equity of Shillaber,
but by a decree of an equity court. This has never been had,
and it still remains that there has been no valid execution of
the trust reposed in Noble by the deed. If the matter bad
remained in this condition, Shillaber would, on payment to
Robinson of the $4,249.58, with interest, have had a right, enforceable in this suit, to have a conveyance of the New York
land by Noble to him. But neither the conveyance by Robinson,
which remained an escrow, nor that to Noble, was ever placed
on record; and Robinson, in whom, according to the records of
the proper counties in New York, the title still remained, sold
all these lands to persons who, as innocent purchasers for a
valuable consideration, now hold them by a good title. This
title is equally beyond the reach of Robinson, of Shillaber, and
of the court. Indeed, although Robinson alleges in his answer
that the purchase of John A. Robinson was made for his benefit, he seems to have attached no importance to it; for he does
not aver that John A. Robinson ever conveyed to him, nor
does he, while giving copies of all the deeds on which he relies,
including the deed to John A. Robinson, show any evidence of
a conveyance from John A. Robinson to him.
The defendant, therefore, when he sold and conveyed this
land to the parties who now hold it under him, did it in viola-

Oct. 1877.]

SHILLABER V. ROBINSON.

tion of the rights of Shillaber, as settled by the Illinois decree.
By that decree, Robinson had no right to sell. By the conveyance made to Noble under that decree, he bad nothing left in
the New York lands but a lien for his $4,249.58. The sale by
Noble was void, and conferred no rights on Robinson whatever.
His belief in its validity did not change the matter. By availing himself of the title which was in him originally, and which
appeared by the records to be there yet, he sold the lands for
twice as much as his lien, and received the money. That he
must account to Shillaber in some way is too plain for argument. If Shillaber could, by paying his debt to Robinson,
redeem the lands from their present holders, it is the relief
which he would prefer, and to which as against Robihson he
would be entitled. But Robinson has put this out of his power,
by a wrongful sale and conveyance to innocent purchasers.
There is no evidence to show that the lands are now worth
any more than Robinson sold them for; no evidence that they
were worth more when he sold them. His answer gives the
precise sum received by him for each parcel of land, and the
date when he received it. He probably believed the land was
his own when he sold it; but, as we have seen, he must be
considered as holding such title as he had in trust, first for his
own debt due from Shillaber, and the remainder for the use of
Shillaber. Treating him, then, as trustee, he must account foi
the money received for the lands, according to the trusts on
which he held them. The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing Shillaber's bill must be reversed, and the case remanded to
that court, with instructions to render a decree on the basis of
charging Robinson with the sums received by him for the lands,
and interest thereon until the day of the decree, deducting
therefrom the sum found due him from Shillaber by the Illinois
decree, with interest to the same time, and rendering a decree
for the difference in favor of Shillaber against Robinson, with
costs; and it is

So ordered.

