Oct. 1878.]

Mo.,

ETC.

RY.CO.

V. KAN. PAC. RY.CO.

491

MIssoUI, KANSAS, AND TEXAS RAILWAY CO LPANY V.
KANSAS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY.
1. Subject to certain reservations and exceptions, the act of Congress of July 1,
1862 (12 Stat. 489), "to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph
line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the
government the use of the same for postal, military, and other purposes,"
passed to the companies therein named a present interest in every oddnumbered section of public land, within specified limits, on each side of the
lines of their respective roads. When those lines were definitely established,
the title of the companies acquired precision, and became attached to such
sections.
2. Said act having been amended by that of July 2, 1864 (13 Stat. 356), by substituting words of larger import, the grant must be treated as if it had been
thus made originally; and therefore, as against the United States, the title
of the companies to the increased quantity of land must be considered as
taking effect July 1, 1862.
3. The company now known as the.Kansas Pacific Railway Company was one
of the companies mentioned in said acts. By the act of July 3, 1866 (14
Stat. 79), it was authorized to designate the general route of its road,
and to file a map thereof at any time before Dec. 1, 1866: Provided, that,
after the filing of the map, the lands along its entire line, so far as designated, should be reserved from sale by the Secretary of the Interior.
Within the specified time, the company filed a map designating as such
general route a line from Fort Riley to the western boundary of Kansas,
by way of the Smoky Hill River. The lands upon this route, embracing,
among others, those now in controversy, were accordingly withdrawn from
sale; and, in January, 1867, the road was completed for twenty-five miles,
approved by the commissioners appointed to examine it, and accepted by
the President. Held, 1. That the title of the company attaching to those
lands by the location of the road, followed by the construction thereof, took
effect, by relation, as of the date of the said act of 1862, so as to cut
off all intervening claimants, except in the cases where reservations were
specially made in it and the amendatory act of 1864. 2. That such reservations operated as limitations upon the grant.
4 It was not within the language or intention of those acts to except from their
operation any portion of the odd-numbered sections within the limits specified in either act, for the purpose of thereafter granting them to aid in the
construction of other roads.
5. The claim of the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company to the lands
in controversy arises under the act of July 26, 1866 (14 Stat. 289), under
which the route of its road was designated, a map thereof filed, and the
road constructed. At that date, the title to the lands along that route,
which were covered by the previous grant to the Kansas Pacific Railway
Company, had already passed from the United States.
6. Although the rights of said companies are determined by the date of their
respective grants, it appears that the location of the Kansas Pacific was
earlier than that of the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas road.

Mo., ErC. RY. Co. v. KAN. PAc. R1. 0o.

[Sup. Ct.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Kansas.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. T. C. Sears and Mr. Wheeler Hf. Peckham for the plaintiff
in error.
Hr. John P. Usher and Mr. Hfenry,Beard, contra.
MR. JUSTIOE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves a determination of the title to about
ninety thousand acres of land situated in the State of Kansas,
claimed by the two railway corporations which are parties to
the suit, under grants from the United States. The plaintiff
in the court below, the defendant in error here, the Kansas
Pacific Railway Company, was originally known as the Leavenworth, Pawnee, and Western Railroad Company, and is thus
designated in the act of Congress of 1862. Subsequently, in
1864, the name was changed to that of the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, Eastern Division; and it was afterwards so
called in the legislation of Congress until some time in 1869,
when it received its present name. 13 Stat. 861 ; 14 id. 79,
855 ; 15 id. 348.
The defendant in the court below, the plaintiff in error here,
the Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company, claims the
lands under a grant from the United States to the State of
Kansas, and by patent from the latter. Both grants were
made to aid in the construction of railroads the lines of which
were not definitely fixed. In neither of them was there any
designation of the lands granted other than that they were to
constitute the odd sections within certain specified distances
on each side of the roads when located. It becomes essential,
therefore, for a proper determination of the rights of the two
companies, to consider the terms of their respective grants, and
ascertain the time when the title to the lands claimed passed
from the government.
The plaintiff, the Kansas Pacific Railway Company, claims
under the act passed on the 1st of July, 1862, in aid of the
construction of a railroad and a telegraph line from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, and the several acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto. That act granted to
the company organized under its provisions, for every mile of

Oct. 1878.]

Mo.,

ETC. RY. CO. V. KAN. PAC. RY. CO.

493

road, five sections of public land, designated by odd numbers,
on each side of the line of the road, within the limit of ten
miles, which were not sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of
by the United States, and to which a pre-emption or homestead claim had not attached at the time the line was definitely fixed. It also provided that whenever the company had
completed forty consecutive miles of any portion of its road or
telegraph line ready for the service contemplated, the President
of the United States should appoint three commissioners to
examine the same, and report whether the road and the telegraph line were completed and equipped as required by the act,
and upon a favorable report, patents were to issue for the
adjacent lands.
The company was required to file in the Department of the
Interior its assent to the act within one year after its passage,
and to designate the general route of its road as near as might
be, and file a map of the same in that department within two
years. The Secretary of the Interior was then to withdraw
the lands within fifteen miles of the designated route from
pre-emption, private entry, and sale; and when any portion
of the route was finally located, he was to cause the lands
granted to be surveyed and set off as fast as necessary for the
The President was to designate the
purposes mentioned.
initial point of the road, which was to be in the Territory of
Nebraska, on the one hundredth meridian west from Greenwich, at which point the eastern branches were to unite. The
act contemplated several branches, one of which was to be
constructed by the Leavenworth, Pawnee, and Western Railroad Company, the name of which was, as already stated,
afterwards changed to that of the Kansas Pacific Railway
Company. It authorized this company, which was incorporated by the State of Kansas, to construct a railroad and a
telegraph line from the 'Missouri River at the mouth of the
Kansas River, on the south side thereof, so as to connect with
the Pacific Railroad of Missouri at the initial point named,
upon the same conditions in all respects as were provided for
the construction of the main road and line. In case the general route of the main road was located so as to require a
departure northwardly from the proposed line of the Kansas

Mo.,

c. Ry. Co. v. KAN. PAC. RY. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

road before it reached the meridian of longitude mentioned,
the location of the Kansas road was to be made to conform to
it. The route in Kansas, west of the meridian of Fort Riley
to the point mentioned on the one hundredth meridian of
longitude, was to be made subject to the approval of the President of the United States, and to be determined by him on
actual survey.
Under this act, the plaintiff, on the 17th of July, 1862, filed
a map showing the general route of its road; and lands
within the limit of fifteen miles on each side of it were
accordingly withdrawn from sale. This route extended along
the Kansas River, from its mouth to the Republican River, and
thence along the left bank of the latter to the one hundredth
meridian.
On the 2d of July, 1864, Congress passed an amendatory
act, enlarging its grant of land to the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, and the companies authorized to connect with its
road, and the limits within which the lands were to be reserved; and extending for one year the time for designating
the general routes of their respective roads, and providing for
the issue to the companies of patents for the lands whenever
twenty consecutive miles of their respective roads were found
upon the report of the commissioners to be completed. It also
authorized the plaintiff to, construct its road and telegraph line
so as to connect with the Union Pacific road at a point west
of its initial point, in case it deemed such westward connection
more practicable or desirable. Under this amendatory act the
plaintiff filed a map designating the general route of its road
west of Fort Riley up the Republican River; but this route
was never approved by the President, as required by the
original act of 1862; and no withdrawal of lands along this
proposed route was made, other than that of July, 1862; and
of the lands then withdrawn west of Fort Riley only such are
claimed by the plaintiff as were included in the subsequent
withdrawal under the act of 1866.
On the 3d of July, 1866, Congress passed a special act
authorizing the plaintiff to designate the general route of its
road, and to file a map thereof, at any time before the 1st of
December, 1866, and providing that after the filing of this map

Oct. 1878.]

Mo., ETC. RY. Co. v. KAN. PAC. RY. CO.

49a

the lands along its entire line, so far as it was designated,
should be reserved from sale by the Secretary of the Interior.
It also declared that the company should connect its lines of
road and telegraph with the Union Pacific road, at a point not
more than fifty miles westwardly from the meridian of Denver,
in Colorado. Under this act the plaintiff, on the 11th of July,
1866, filed a map in the Department of the Interior, designating
as the general route of its road a line from Fort Riley to the
western line of the State, by way of the Smoky Hill River,
instead of the Republican River; and on the 26th of the same
month the lands upon this route were withdrawn from sale, by
order of the Secretary of the Interior. The lands thus withdrawn embrace those in controversy in this case. Previously
to this the road of the company had been completed as far as
Fort Riley; and by the 14th of December following (1866),
twenty miles west of Fort Riley, and on the Smoky Hill route,
were also completed. Upon the presentation of an affidavit of
this fact, the President appointed commissioners to examine
and report upon the road. Before they made their examination, a section of five additional miles of the road had been
completed, and they were directed to include it in their
examination. On the 17th of January, 1867,, they reported
to the Secretary of the Interior that the twenty-five miles
were ready for service, and were completed and equipped as
a first-class road. On the 22d of that month, the Secretary
informed the President of the report, and recommended its
acceptance, and the issue of patents for the lands due the
company on account of this completed portion of the road;
and on the same day the President approved the report, and
directed that patents be issued as recommended by the Secretary.
Upon this order and the legislation we have stated, and the
proceedings had under it, the plaintiff bases its right to the
lands in controversy, and a consequent affirmance of the decision of the court below.
Briefly stated, the case of the plaintiff is this: In 1862,
Congress granted to it certain lands consisting of odd sections
along a railroad to be afterwards constructed; in 1864, Congress
enlarged the grant, and by subsequent legislation authorized the

MO.,

ETC. RY. Co. v. KAN. PAC.

RY. CO.

[Sup. Ct.

route of the road to be designated at any time before December,
1866; when designated, lands within a limit sufficiently extended to embrace the granted sections were to be reserved
from sale; and when certain portions of the road were from
time to time completed, and were accepted by the President
as a first-class road, patents for the sections were to be issued
to the company. The plaintiff designated the route of its road
in July, 1866, and the lands in controversy were, on the 26th
of that month, reserved from sale. By the 14th of December
following, it bad completed twenty miles of its road, and by
the 16th of January, 1867, five additional miles. Commissioners were appointed by the President to examine and report
as to the completion and equipment of the road; and upon
their favorable report this section of twenty-five miles was
accepted by him, and a patent for the lands was ordered to
be issued. The plaintiff, therefore, claims that it acquired a
title to the lands, and has a right to the evidence of it. And
this claim is clearly well founded, unless there be something
impairing its validity in the legislation and proceedings under
which the defendant asserts title to the lands.
As between the United States and the plaintiff, the right of
the latter to a patent became perfect on the approval by the
President of the report of the commissioners. The act of
July 1, 1862, passed to the company a present interest in
the lands to be designated within the limits there specified.
Its language is, "that there be and is hereby granted " to it
the odd sections mentioned, - words which import a grant in
presenti and not one in futuro, or the promise of a grant.
Similar terms in other acts of Congress granting lands have
uniformly received this interpretation, unless accompanied with
clauses restraining their operation. They were so interpreted
in S&hulenberg v. Harriman,after full consideration of previous
adjudications on their import; and the ruling there was followed in Leavenworth, Lawrence, J' Galveston Bilroad Co. v.
United States, 92 U. S.733. It is true that the route of the
road, in this case as in those cases, to aid in the construction
of which the act was passed, was to be afterwards designated;
and until designated the title could not attach to any specific
tracts. The grant was of sections to be afterwards located,

Oct. 1878.]

Mo., Em0. Ry. CO. v. KAN. PAC. Ry. CO,

497

and their location depended upon the route to be established;
when that was settled, the location became certain, and the title
that was previously imperfect acquired precision and attached
to the lands.
It is always to be borne in mind, in construing a congres.sional grant, that the act by which it is made is a law as
well as a conveyance, and that such effect must be given to
it as will carry out the intent of Congress. That intent
should not be defeated by applying to the grant the rules of
the common law, which are properly applicable only to transfers between private parties. To the validity of such transfers
it may be admitted that there must exist a present power
of identification of the land; and that where no such power
exists, instruments, with words of present grant, are operative,
if at all, only as contracts to convey. But the rules of the
common law must yield in this, as in all other cases, to the
legislative will.
As to the intent of Congress in the grant to the plaintiff
there can be no reasonable doubt. It was to aid in the construction of the road by a gift of lands along its route, without
reservation of rights, except such as were specifically mentioned,
the location of the route being left within certain general limits
to the action of the plaintiff. When the location was made
and the sections granted ascertained, the title of the plaintiff
took effect by relation as of the date of the act, except as to
the reservations mentioned; the act having the same operation
upon the sections as if they had been specifically described in
it. It is true that the act of 1864 enlarged the grant of 1862 ;
but this was done, not by words of a new and an additional
grant, but by a change of words in the original act, substituting for those there used words of larger import. This mode
was evidently adopted that the grant might be treated as if
thus made originally; and therefore, as against the United
States, the title of the plaintiff to the enlarged quantity, with
the exceptions stated, must be considered as taking effect
equally with the title to the less quantity as of the date
of the first act. United States v. Burlington & Missouri Bailroad Co., 4 Dill. 305.
The construction thus given to the grant in this case is, of
VOL. VII.

32

498

Mo., ETC. RY. Co. v. KAN. PAC. RY. Co.

[Sup. Ct.

course, applicable to all similar congressional grantm, and there
is a vast number of them; and it will tend, we think, to prevent controversies between the grantees and those claiming
under them respecting the title to the lands covered by their
several grants, and put an end to struggles to encroach upon
the rights of others by securing an earlier location. Our
judgment is that the title of the plaintiff, attaching to the
lands in controversy by a location of the route of the road,
being followed by a construction of the road, took effect by
relation as of the date of the act of 1862, so as to cut off all
intervening claimants except in the cases where reservations
were specially made in that act, and the amendatory act of
1864. Such reservations operated as limitations upon the
grant. The limitation upon the grant in the act of July,
1862, extended to lands sold, reserved, or otherwise disposed of
by the United States, or to which a pre-emption or homestead
claim had attached, and to mineral lands. The amendatory act
of July, 1864, declared that neither that nor the original act
should defeat or impair any pre-emption, homestead, swamp
land, or other lawful claim, or include reservations or mineral
lands other than those of iron or coal.
As the sections mentioned could only be known when the
route of the road was established, which might not be for
years, the government did not intend to withhold the lands in
the mean time from occupation and sale, and thus retard the
settlement of the country, nor to exclude the lands from appropriation to public uses. And the object of the reservation
was to protect the acquisition of rights in this way to lands
falling within the limits of the grant, and to exclude from
its operation lands specially reserved, and lands of a special
character, such as mineral lands other than those of iron or
coal, the sale of which was seldom permitted anywhere, and
swamp lands. The grant made was in the nature of a float,
and the reservations excluded only specific tracts to which
certain interests had attached before the grant had become
definite, or which had been specially withheld from sale for
public uses, and tracts having a peculiar character, such as
swamp lands, or mineral lands the sale of which was then
against the general policy of the government. It was not

Oct. 1878.]

MO., ETC. RY. Co. v. KAN. PAC. Ry.

Co.

499

within its language or purpose to except from its operation
any portion of the designated lands for the purpose of aiding
in the construction of other roads.
The claim of title to the lands in controversy made by the
defendant in the court below, the plaintiff in error here, the
Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company, arises in this
wise: On the 3d of March, 1863, Congress passed an act
granting lands to the State of Kansas to aid in the construction
of certain railroads, one of which was to extend from the city
of Atchison via Topeka, the capital of the State, to its western
line in the direction of Fort Union and Santa F6, New Mexico,
with a branch down the Neosho Valley to a point where the
Leavenworth and Lawrence road entered it. In accepting the
act in February, 1864, the legislature of Kansas enacted that
if Congress, before the 4th of March, 1866, should consent that
the Neosho Valley branch of the road be extended so as to
intersect the Union Pacific road, eastern division, at or near
Fort Riley, and should make a grant of lands for such extension of like amount with that granteg! per mile for the construction of the main road, then the Atchison, Topeka, and
Santa F6 Railroad Company should proceed to construct such
branch. The act thus suggested Congress did not pass; but on
the 1st of July, 1864, it did pass an act making an additional
grant of land for the construction of a railroad and a telegraph
line from Emporia, via Council Grove, to a point near Fort
Riley, on the branch of the Union Pacific Railroad. The
grant was subject to all the provisions, restrictions, liinitations, and conditions in regard to the selection and location
of the lands, and otherwise, of the act of March 3, 1863, 13
Stat. 339. Afterwards, the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6
Railroad Company, with the assent of the State, transferred
all its interest in the grant to the defendant in this case, the
Missouri, Kansas, and Texas Railway Company,- a company
which was originally known as the Union Pacific Railroad
Company, Southern Branch, and is so designated in the act
of July 26, 1866, which we shall presently consider. This act
of 1864 was never accepted by the State of Kansas. No route
of a road between the points designated in it was ever located
by the company, nor was any map of a proposed route ever

Mo., ETC. Ry. Co. v. KAN. PAC. RY. Co. " [Sup. Ct.
filed in the Department of the Interior. Nothing, indeed, was
done by the State or company under the act until after the
grant it offered had been superseded by the acceptance of the
greater and more valuable grant made by the subsequent act
of July 26, 1866, which covered the same lands. 14 Stat. 289.
This last act granted to the State of Kansas, for the purpose
of aiding the company to construct and operate a railroad from
Fort Riley, or near that military reservation, down the valley
of the Neosho River, to the southern line of the State, five
alternate sections of land per mile on each side of the road,
with a clause that in case it should appear, among other
things, when the line of the road was definitely fixed, that
any section or part of a section granted had been reserved
by the United States for any purpose whatever, then an
equal amount of land was to be selected from the public
lands nearest the section, and with a proviso excepting from
the operation 'of the act all lands previously reserved to the
United States by act of Congress or other competent authority, for the purpose of aiding in any object of internal
I
improvement.
The grant thus made was accepted by the company in
August, 1866, and its acceptance was filed in the Department of the Interior. In September following, the line of
the proposed road was surveyed, and a map of its route prepared; in November, 1866, it was filed in the office of the
Secretary of State of Kansas, and in December following in
the office of the Secretary of the Interior. In March, 1867,
the adjacent lands were withdrawn from sale to meet the
grant, and in June, 1870, the road of the company was completed to the southern line of the State, and soon afterwards
was accepted as a first-class road by the governor of the State
and by the President.
Upon the principle already announced, in considering the
time when the grant to the plaintiff took effect, the title of the
defendant to the lands thus set apart to it, had there been no
previous disposition or reservation of them, would have become
perfect, and by relation have vested from the date of the act.
But so far as the lands were identical with those covered by
the previous grant to the plaintiff by the acts of 1862 and

Oct. 1878.]

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

1864, the title could not attach, as it had already passed from
the government.
The rights of the contesting corporations to the disputed
tracts are determined by the dates of their respective grants,
and not by the dates of the location of the routes of their respective roads, although in this case the location of the route
of the plaintiff's road was earlier than that of the defendant's
road. This consideration disposes of the case, and requires
the affirmance of the decree of the Supreme Court of Kansas,
without reference to the reservations contained in the grant to
the defendant.
Decree afflirmed.

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.
1. Where, by the application of the invention or discovery for which letterspatent have been granted by the United States, tangible property comes
into existence, its use is, to the same extent as that of any other species of
property, subject, within the several States, to the control which they may
respectively impose in the legitimate exercise of their powers ovdr their
purely domestic affairs, whether of internal commerce or of police.
2. A party to whom such letters-patent were, in the usual form, issued for "an
improved burning oil," whereof he claimed to be the inventor, was convicted in Kentucky for there selling that oil. It had been condemned by
the State inspector as "unsafe for illuminating purposes," under a statute
requiring such inspection, and imposing a penalty for selling or offering to
sell within the State oils or fluids, the product of coal, petroleum, or other
bituminous substances, which can be used for such purposes, and which
have been so condemned. It was admitted on the trial that the oil could
not, by any chemical combination described in the specification annexed to
the letters-patent, be made to conform to the standard prescribed by that
statute. Held, that the enforcement of the statute interfered with no right
conferred by the letters-patent.

ERROR to the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mlr. Matt. 1. Carpenterfor the plaintiff in error.
M1r. Albert Pike, contra.
MR. STUSTI E HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Whether the final judgment of the Court of Appeals of

