COUNTY OF WARREN V. MARCY.

[Sup. Ct.

COUNTY OF WARURENT V. MARCY.
1. The court reaffirms its former decisions that where, after a preliminary proceeding, such as a popular election, a county had lawful authority to issue
its bonds, and they were issued, bearing upon their face a certificate by the
officer, whose primary duty it was to ascertain the fact, that such proceeding had taken place, a bona fide holder of them for value before maturity
has a right to assume that such certificate is true.
2. The bonds are not, in the hands of such a holder, rendered invalid by the
fact that such proceeding was so defective that a suit to prevent their issue
should be, and, on appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, ultimately
was, sustained against the county officers, nor by the fact that they were
issued after such a suit had been brought, and were by him purchased
during its pendency.
3. The rule that all persons are bound to take notice of a suit pending with
regard to the title to property, and that they, at their peril, buy the same
from any of the litigating parties, does not apply to negotiable securities
purchased before maturity.
4. The considerations which exclude the operation of that rule on such securities apply to them, whether they were created during the suit or before
its commencement, and to controversies relating to their origin or to their
transfer.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
ERROR

This was an action brought in the court below by George 0.
Marcy, the defendant in error, against the County of Warren,
to recover the amount of certain coupons, originally attached to
certain bonds of the said county, bearing date Jan. 25, 1871.

These bonds were in the following form: "UNITED

"No.

STATES OF AMERICA. -STATE

C-.]
ounty of Warren.

OF ILLDTOIS.

[$1,000.

"On the first day of July, in the year of our Lord on6 thousand
eight hundred and ninety, the county of Warren, and State of
Illinois, promises to pay to the Rockford, Rock Island, and Saint
Louis Railroad Company, or bearer, the sum of $1,000, and interest
thereon, at the rate of eight per cent per annum, payable annually,
on the first day of July in each year, on presentation to the treasurer
of said Warren County of the respective interest-coupons which are
hereto severally adjoined.

Oct.1877.]

COUNTY OF WARREN V. MARCY.

"This bond is issued in conformity with the vote of the electors
of said county, cast at an election held on the twenty-third day of
September, A.D. 1869.
"In testimony whereof, and pursuant to the authority granted by
law, and upon the order of tLe board of supervisors of said Warren
County, passed at an adjourned session thereof, begun on the twentyfifth day of January, A.D. 1871, 1, clerk of the county court of said
county, have hereunto signed my name as such clerk, and affixed
the seal of said county court, this twenty-fifth day of January,
A.D. 1871.
SAREN COUNTY COURT,
"W.
G. BowE,
ILLINOIS, SEAL.

" Clerk of the County Court of Warren County."

A jury being waived, the court made a special finding of the
facts, and thereupon found generally for the plaintiff, and rendered judgment in his favor. The county then brought the
case here.
The principal facts of the case, as found by the court, are as
follows: -

The Rockford, Rock Island, and St. Louis Railroad Company,
having been chartered by an act of the legislature of Illinois,
approved Feb. 16, 1865, a supplement to said charter was
passed and approved on the 4th of Mlarch, 1869, whereby,
amongst other things, it was enacted (by sect. 6) that any
incorporated city, town, village, or county, through which said
railroad might pass, or which might be situated on or near the
line thereof, might subscribe to the capital stock of the company any sum not exceeding $100,000, and might issue coupon
bonds, not to run more than thirty years. To this enactment
was appended the following proviso: "Provcided, that before said stock shall be subscribed, an election
shall be held, in conformity to the laws in regard to ordinary State,
city, county, or town elections, thirty days' notice first having been
given, by publication in at least one newspaper in the county, and
six public notices, printed or written, having been posted in six of'
the most public places therein during the time above named, and
returns to be made in the usual way; at which election a majority
of the legal voters, voting on the question, shall have voted in favor
of said subscription; and to this end, the . . . board of supervisors
. . . may from time to time order elections, specifying the amount

proposed to be subscribed.'
voL. vii.

7

COUNTY OF WARREN V AIAROY.

[Sup. ot.

On the 25th of March, 1869, another act was passed and
approved, entitled "An Act to authorize certain counties and
towns therein named to subscribe stock in railroad compaflies."
The first section of this act authorized the counties of Rock
Island, Mercer, Warren, McDonough, Schuyler, Cass, Scott, and
Greene to purchase or subscribe for shares of the capital stock
in any railroad company already organized, or thereafter to be
organized, which should pass in whole or in part through the
said counties, or any or either of them, to such an amount as
any of said counties, or either of them, should determine and
deem proper. The second section provided that such subscriptions might be made by an agent appointed by the board of
supervisors, in counties that might adopt township organization
(which it was conceded Warren County had done), upon such
terms and conditions as the corporate authorities of any such
county might prescribe; and for the payment of such stock
the board were authorized to borrow money at interest not exceeding ten per cent, or to pay for the same in the bonds, orders,
or warrants of the county, in sums not less than $100, to run
not exceeding twenty years, at interest not exceeding ten per
cent per annum. The fourth section directed that all such
bonds, &c., should be issued by the clerk of the county court,
under the seal of his office, upon the order of the county authorities, and the county clerk to make registration thereof, and
certify the same on the bonds. The tenth section declared
that no such subscription to stock should be made, unless the
same was submitted to a vote of the people of such county,
and should receive a majority of the votes cast; and that the
question should be submitted in such manner as the county
authorities might determine.
It is claimed by the defendant in error that the county of
Warren derived authority to issue the bonds in question under
the last-mentioned act. The road of the Rockford, Rock Island,
and St. Louis Railroad Company was partially built north and
south of Warren County before the election hereafter mentioned was held, and it was declared by the company that it
would go through that county; and it is not disputed that it
was, in fact, afterwards laid through the same as proposed.

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY

OF WARREN V. MARCY.

The proceedings of the board of supervisors and county
officers which resulted in the issue of the bonds were as follows: On the 23d of August, 1869, the board called an election of
the people of the county to be held on Sept. 28, 1869, for
the purpose of determining the question of a county subscription of $200,000 to the stock of said railroad company, includifig the $100,000 previously voted to the St. Louis, Alton, and
Rock Island Railroad Company, claimed to have been transferred to the former company by virtue of an act of assembly
passed in 1869. Notices of the election were not published
until Aug. 27, 1869 (less than thirty days prior thereto), and
some of those posted were not posted for the full period of
thirty days, and in one township none were posted at all; but
in all the others notices were published for periods varying
from twenty to thirty days. The election was held pursuant
to notice on the 23d of September, 1869; and one thousand seven
hundred and seventy-five votes were cast for the subscription,
and nine hundred and seventy-five against it, the total vote of
the county at the last previous general election being four thousand seven hundred and thilty-one. The vote was duly canvassed, and filed in the clerk's office; and on the 16th of March,
1870, the board declared that the election had resulted in favor
of the subscription, and ordered its chairman to make the same
accordingly.
On the 18th of July, 1870, one Harding, a tax-payer and
citizen of the county, filed a bill in chancery, on behalf of himself and all other tax-payers, against the county officers and
the railroad company, in the Circuit Court of Warren County,
asking for an injunction to prevent the subscription of stock
and the issue of bonds therefor, and that the proceedings of the
board be set aside and declared void. The bill set forth the
foregoing facts; and a temporary injunction was granted, but
was subsequently dissolved on the 28d of January, 1871. The
complainant prayed an appeal from the order dissolving the
injunction, which was not granted; and the cause went to final
hearing on the 2d of February, 1871, when the bill was dismissed. Thereupon the complainant appealed to the Supreme
Court of the State. The cause having been heard at the first

COUNTY OF WARREN

V. MARCY.

[Sup. Ct.

term thereafter, the decree of the Circuit Court was reversed in
1873, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree
for the complainant, according to the prayer of the bill. In
accordance with these directions, a decree was duly entered in
the Circuit Court.
Meantime, pending these proceedings, after the dissolution
of the temporary injunction by the Circuit Court, and on the
25th of January, 1871, the bonds in question, to the amount
of $200,000, in the form above set forth, were executed under
the hand of the clerk of the board of supervisors of Warren
County, by order of a majority of the board, at a meeting held
on that day. They were then delivered by the clerk, as directed
by the board, to the Rockford, Rock Island, and St. Louis Railroad Company, in payment of a subscription to the stock of
said company, which purported to be made in March, 1870, in
the name of the county, by the chairman of said board, in
pursuance of the order of the board, before stated. They were
registered in the office of the clerk of Warren County, and so
certified by him Jan. 25, 1871, and were registered Jan. 27,
1871, in the office of the State auditor of public accounts, and
so certified by him on the bonds.
The defendant in error subsequently became a purchaser of
the coupons in question for value, before maturity, and without
any actual notice of their alleged invalidity, or of any suit in
relation thereto.
31r. George . JHardingfor the plaintiff in error.
The Constitution of Illinois of 1870 prohibits a county from
becoming a subscriber to the capital stock of a railroad coinpany, unless authorized by a vote of the people.
The notice for the election not having been given in compliance with the provisions of the act of March 4, 1869, the bonds
are void.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, in Hardingv. Bocleford, Rock
Island, & St. Louis Bailroad Co. (65 111. 90), decided that those
provisions were not repealed by the tenth section of the act of
March 25, 1869.
The coupons here sued on were issued pending that suit,
and it was a notice to purchasers of all matters in litigation,
so as to affect and bind them. Murray v. Ballou, I Johns.

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF WARREN

V.

MARCY.

(N. Y.) Ch. 566; Murray v. Lylburn, 2 id. 441; 2 White &
Tudor's Leading Cases, 64; Park v. Johnson, 11 Wend. (N. Y.)
453.
That rule applies to personal as well as to real property, and
to personal property of every description. McCutcheon v. M11iller, 31 Miss. 83; Bishop of Winchester v. Paine, 11 Ves. Jr.
200; Sarme v. Beaver, 3 id. 314; Kellogg et al. v. Fancher et
al., 23 Wis. 1 ; Scudder v. Van Amburgh, Edw. (N. Y.) Ch. 30 ;
Haddens v. Spaders, 20 Johns. (N. Y.) 573; Me~ary v. Fries,
4 Jones (N. C.), Eq. 234; Fletcher v. Ferrell, 9 Dana (Ky.),
377; Leitch v. Wells, 48 Barb. (N. Y.) 650; Murray v. Lylburn,
supra.
The only exception to the rule is unmatured negotiable
paper, in existence when the suit was brought; but that exception cannot extend to paper executed pendente lite.
Mr. Charles H. Osborn and -4r.Sanford B. Perry, contra.
The statutes of 4th and 25th March, 1869, are ample authority to the county of Warren to subscribe for stock in the
Rockford, Rock Island, and St. Louis Railroad Company, and
to issue bonds, like those in question, in payment therefor, an
affirmative vote of the county having been first given in favor
thereof.
The board of supervisors was invested with full power to
submit to the voters of the county the question of subscribing
to the stock of the railroad company, and to decide whether
the election was properly held, and the majority vote cast in
favor of the subscription. The board having ordered the bonds
in question to be issued, with a recital therein that they were
issued in conformity with the vote of the electors of said county,
they are, in the hands of a bona fide holder for value, conclusive
proof that such an election was legally called and held, and
are binding on the county. Commissioners of KYnox County v.
Aspinwall et al., 21 How. 539; Bissell v. City of Jeffersonville,
24 id. 287; Moran v. Commissioners of Miami County, 2 Black,
722; Van Hostrup v. Madison City, 1 Wall. 291; Grand Chute
v. TWinegar, 15 id. 855; Lynde v. The County, 16 id. 6; _Kenicott
v. The Supervisors, id. 452; St. Joseph Township v. Rogers, id.
644; Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; Marcy v. Town
of Oswego, id. 637; Humboldt Township v. Long et al., id. 642;

COUNTY OF WARREN V. MARCY.

[ Su p. 0 t.

County of Calloway v. -Foster, 93 id. 567; Commissioners, Jc.
v. Thayer, 94 id. 631; Commissioners, &c. v. January,id. 202,
Commissioners, &c. v. Clark, id. 278; Town of East Lincoln v.
Davenport, id. 801.
Such a holder is required only to ascertain whether the
county was authorized by law to subscribe for stock in the railroad company named in the bonds, and to issue them in payment therefor. Commissioners of Knox County v. Aspinwall,
supra; Moran v. Commissioners of Miami County, supra ; fflercer County v. Hacket, 1 Wall. 83; Meyer v. City of Muscatine,
id. 384; Supervisors v. Schenck, 5 id. 772; Pendleton County v.
Amy, 13 id. 297; Nugent v. The Supervisors, 19 id. 241; Lynde
v. The County, supra; -Kenicott v. The Supervisors, sapra;
Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484; County of Moultrie v.
Savings Bank, id. 631.
Such bonds, with the interest coupons attached, are in the
hands of such a holder negotiable securities, having all the
properties of commercial paper: White v. FVermont & Massachusetts _Railroad Co., 21 How. 575; Moran v. Commissioners,
&c., supra; Mercer County v. Hfacket, supra; Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; City of Lexington v. Butler, 14 id. 282;
St. Joseph Township v. _?ogers, supra; Humboldt Township v.
Long et al., supra; Commissioners,&c. v. Clark, supra; Cromwell
v. County of Sac, 96 U. S. 51; and the doctrine of lis pendens is
not applicable to them. Leitch v. Wells, 48 N. Y. 586; Stone
v. Elliott, 11 Ohio St. 252; Kieffer v. Ehler, 18 Pa. St. 888;
Durant v. Iowa County, 1 Woolw. 69; Winston v. Westfeldt, 22
Ala. 760; National Bank of Mashington v. Texas, 20 Wall. 72;
Olcott v. Supervisors, 16 id. 678; 2 Lead. Cas. in Eq. (ed. of
1877) 196; 2 Powell, Mortgages, 618.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is insisted by the plaintiff in error that the bonds and
coupons were void, for want of authority in the board of supervisors to issue them, in consequence o f insufficient notice of the
election. It must be conceded, however, that if the case is to
be governed by the act of March 25, 1869, there was no defect
in the proceedings. But it is insisted that the act of March 4,

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF WARREN V. MARCY.

1869, which prescribed a notice of thirty days, by publication
in a newspaper, was still binding, and was not abrogated by
the act of March 25, the tenth section of which provided that
the question should be submitted in such manner as the county
authorities might determine.
This was the very question raised before the State court in
okcford, Bock Island, St. Louis Railroad Co.
Harding v.
(65 Ill. 90); and the Supreme Court of Illinois decided that
the provisions of the act of March 4 were binding, and that
the election was void for want of such published notice of
thirty days.
The court considered that the object of the act of March 25
was to remove the limitation as to the amount of the subscription, and to change the time for the maturity of the bonds, as
imposed by the act of March 4, but not to change the time or
manner of giving notice of the election; and they conclude
their opinion in the following words: "We are of opinion that the proviso to section six (6) of the
act of 4th of March is not abrogated by section ten (10) of
the subsequent act. Their reconciliation, in the manner we
have attempted, will best subserve the public good; and the
validity of both, thus reconciled, will make the legislation more
in accordance with reason, shield the legislature from an absurdity, and prevent serious consequences.
"As the election was invalid for want of sufficient notice,
there was no power to make the subscription, and none was
conferred by the vote to issue the bonds."
If we accept this as the true construction of these statutes,
the question then arises, whether, the bonds having been issued
and acquired under the circumstances shown by the special
findings of the Circuit Court, the defendant in error is entitled
to recover. Is the county bound to pay the coupons in question
to one who purchased them for value before maturity, and without any actual knowledge of the facts relied on to invalidate
them, or of the pendency of the suit brought to have the proceedings declared void?
This involves two questions: 1. Are the bonds so absolutely
void, as against the county, as to be invalid under all circumstances, even in the hands of a bona fide holder for value? 2. If

COUNTY

OF WARREN V. MARCY.

[Sup. t

not, was the commencement and pendency of the suit for having the proceedings of the supervisors declared void, and preventing the issue of the bonds, such notice to all persons of
their invalidity, as to defeat the title of a purchaser for value
before maturity, having no actual notice of the suit, or of the
objection to the bonds ?
The first question is to be viewed in the light of the former
decisions of this court. We have substantially held, that if a
municipal body has lawful power to issue bonds or other negotiable securities, dependent only upon the adoption of certain
preliminary proceedings, such as a popular election of the constituent body, the holder in good faith has a right to assume
that such preliminary proceedings have taken place, if the fact
be certified on the face of the bonds themselves, by the authorities whose primary duty it is to ascertain it. Commissioners
of Johnson County v. January, 94 U. S. 202;' Commissioners of
Douglass County v. Bolles, id. 104,108 ; Town of Colomav. Eaves,
92 id. 484, 488; Lynde v. The County, 16 Wall. 6. Now, that
is the case here. The bonds are executed by the board of supervisors, or, which is the same thing, by their clerk, under
their order and direction. They certify on their face that they
are issued in conformity with the vote of the electors of said
county, cast at an election held on the twenty-third day of September, 1869. This, according to the cases, is a sufficient authentication of the fact that an election was duly held, to protect
a bona fide bolder for value.
A similar defence, that the bonds were absolutely void for
want of authority (and so declared by the State tribunals), in
consequence of irregularity in the preliminary proceedings, was
set up in the case of Lee County v. Rogers, 7 Wall. 181. That
case arose in Iowa. A county election had been held to determine on the subscription of stock to a railroad, and the issue of
bonds in payment thereof. A bill in equity was filed to prevent such subscription and issue, and was successful. The
legislature then passed a healing act, and the bonds were issued.
A year after this, another bill was filed to have both the act and
the bonds declared void, but was dismissed. Two years after
this dismissal, a bill of review was filed to reverse the last decree; and it was reversed, and the bonds and the healing act

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY

OF WARREN V. MARCY.

itself were declared void. This court held that, notwithstanding all this, the bona fide holder of the bonds was entitled to
recover upon them. It being contended that he was bound to
take notice of the ls pendens for avoiding the bonds, the court
held otherwise, on the ground that there was no continuous
litigation. The first suit was determined before the issue of
the bonds, and the second was not commenced until after
they had been issued. No suit was pending when they were
issued.
This case is an authority for the position that bonds of this
sort may be valid in the hands of a bona fide holder, notwithstanding the fact that the preliminary proceedings requisite to
their issue may have been so defective as to sustain a direct
proceeding against the county officers to annul them or prevent
their issue.
This brings us to the second question; namely, whether the
pendency of the chancery suit for vacating the proceedings of
the supervisors and preventing the issue of the bonds, in this
case, was in itself constructive notice to all persons of their invalidity, or of the objections raised against them. This question has an important bearing upon the case; for, whilst the
bonds may be valid in the hands of a bona fide purchaser before
maturity, and without notice of any defect or vice in their
origin, this cannot be said in reference to one who has such
notice, or who is chargeable therewith.
It is a general rule that all persons dealing with property are
bound to take notice of a suit pending with regard to the title
thereto, and will, on their peril, purchase the same from any
of the parties to the suit. But this rule is not of universal
application. It does not apply to negotiable securities purchased before maturity, nor to articles of ordinary commerce
sold in the usual way. This exception was suggested by
Chancellor Kent, in one of the leading cases on the subject
in this country, and has been confirmed by many subsequent
decisions.
The learned Chancellor gave the history and grounds of the
general doctrine of lis pendens, in 1815, in the case of Hurray v.
Ballou (1 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 566), which is the leading Ameriean case on the subject, and deserves the careful study of every

COUNTY OF WARREN V. MARCY.

[Sup. Ot.

student of law. The fundamental proposition was stated in
these words: "The established rule is, that a lis pendens, duly
prosecuted, and not collusive, is notice to a purchaser so as to
affect and bind his interest by the decree; and the lis pendens
begins from the service of the subpcena after the bill is filed."
p. 576. That case related to land, with regard to which the
doctrine is uniformly applied.
In the subsequent case of lTJurray v. Lylburn (2 id. 441),
decided in 1817, the same doctrine was held to apply to choses
in action (in that case, a bond and mortgage) assigned by one
of the parties pendente lite. But the Chancellor, with wise
prevision, indicated the qualification to which the rule should
be subject in such cases. Speaking of the trustee, whose acts
were in question, he said: "If Winter had held a number of
mortgages, and other securities, in trust, when the suit was
commenced, it cannot be pretended that he might safely defeat
the object of the suit, and elude the justice of the court, by
selling these securities. If he possessed cash, as the proceeds
of the trust estate, or negotiable paper not due, or perhaps
movable personal property, such as horses, cattle, grain, &c.,
I am not prepared to say the rule is to be carried so far as to
affect such sales. The safety of commercial dealing would require a limitation of the rule; but bonds and mortgages are not
the subject of ordinary commerce; and they formed one of the
specific subjects of the suit against Winter, and the injunction
prohibited the sale and assignment of them, as well as of the
lands held in trust."
Here we have the whole law on the subject. Subsequent
cases have only carried it out and applied it. We shall cite
only a few of the most important.
In Kieffer v. Bhler (18 Pa. St. 388), decided in 1852, it was
held that, although a promissory note not due is liable to attachment under the Pennsylvania statute of 1836, relative to executions; yet such attachment is unavailable against a bona
fide holder for value of a negotiable note, where it was obtained after the attachment was served on the maker of the
note as garnishee, and after its return, but before the anaturity
of the note, and without actual notice of the attachment. Mr.
Justice Lowrie, in that case, speaking of such instruments,

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF WARREN V.MARCY.

says: "They have a legal quality that renders the hold of an
attachment upon them very uncertain. Unlike all other property, they carry their whole evidence of title on their face ; and
the law assures the right of him who obtains them for valuable consideration, by regular indorsement, and without actual
notice of any adverse claim, or of such suspicious circumstances
as should lead to inquiry. To hold that an attachment prevents a subsequent bona fide indorser for value from acquiring
a good title, would be almost a destruction of one of the essential characteristics of negotiable paper." He admits that the
negotiation of such paper by a defendant after he had notice of
the attachment would be a fraud upon the law; but he suggests the remedy, namely, that the court should exert its power
to prevent it, by requiring the instrument to be placed in such
custody as to prevent it from being misapplied,- a remedy
analogous to that of injunction and sequestration by a court of
chancery.
In a subsequent case in Pennsylvania, that of BDiamond v.
Lawrence County (37 id. 353), it is true, the same court held
the purchaser of county bonds pendente lite to be affected with
constructive notice; but placed its decision specially on the
ground that, in Pennsylvania, such bonds are not deemed negotiable securities.
The case of Winston v. Westfeldt, which came before the
Supreme Court of Alabama in 1853 (22 Ala. 760), is directly in
point, and was decided upon great consideration and after exhaustive arguments by counsel. The note sued on, at the time
of its purchase by the plaintiff, was the subject of controversy
in the chancery court; and the question was, whether the proceedings operated as notice to him, "or, in other words," says
the court, "does the doctrine of lis pendens apply to negotiable
paper?" And the decision was, that it does not. The arguments of the counsel, as well as the judgment of the court, in
this case, are very instructive; but we forbear to accumulate
further quotations.
Suffice it to say, that the same doctrine is held and adjudged
in Stone v. Blliott, 11 Ohio St. 252; Mims v. West, 38 Ga. 18;
Durant v. Iowa County, 1 Woolw. 69; and Leitch v. Wells, 48
N. Y. 585, overruling same case in 48 Barb. 637. The case of

COUNTY OF WARREN V. MARCY.

[Sup. Ct.

-Durant v. Iowa County was decided by Mr. Justice Miller,
and related to coupons attached to county bonds, being parallel to the case now under consideration, except that the coupons bad been issued before the Us pendens was instituted.
Justice Miller, in this case, meets the objection that the rule
may operate to defeat the action of the court by withdrawing
from its jurisdiction the subject-matter of the controversy. He
says: "It is insisted that, in this view, proceedings to enjoin
the transfer of such securities are futile. Not so. An injunction will prevent the transfer of the securities during the pendency of the suit, and a decree that they be delivered up to be
cancelled, if enforced at once, will protect the parties. A neglect to take out the injunction, or to enforce the decree, is the
fault of the plaintiff, not of the law."
In the present case, an injunction was issued, and, so long as
it was in force, was obeyed by the board of supervisors. The
Circuit Court saw cause to dissolve the injunction, it is true,
and eventually dismissed the bill; and it was not till two years
afterward that the Supreme Court reversed this decree.
Whether the Circuit Court did right in dissolving the injunction without dismissing the bill (which was emphatically an
injunction bill); or whether the complainant ought not, at
once, to have submitted to a dismissal, taken an appeal, and
adopted the necessary proceedings for a continuance of the injunction,- it is unnecessary now to inquire. It cannot be said
that the court was destitute of power to maintain its own jurisdiction and protect its suitors. If it did not choose to exert
this power, and any failure of justice ensued, it is to be attributed to that inherent imperfection to which the administration
of all human laws is liable. At all events, the evil is no
greater than that which would befall the innocent purchasers
of the bonds, if the loss should be made to fall upon them.
From this dilemma there is no escape, unless we abrogate the
privileges of commercial paper, and make it the duty of those
who take it to inquire into all its previous history and the circumstances of its origin. This would be to revolutionize the
principles on which the business of the commercial world is
transacted, and would require a new departure in the modes
and usages of trade.

Oct. 1877.]

CoUNTY OF WARREN V. MARCY.

The only thing calculated to raise any doubt, in the present
case, is the fact that the bonds in question were not in existence when the suit to prevent their issue was brought. But
we see no good reason for limiting the exception to paper or
securities previously in existence. The court, as we have seen,
has ample power, by injunction, to prevent their execution;
and the reason of the exception is as applicable to the one class
as to the other. Its object is to protect the commercial coiamunity by removing all obstacles to the free circulation of
negotiable paper. If, when regular on its face, it is to be subject to the possibility of a suit being pending between the original parties, its negotiability would be seriously affected, and a
check would be put to innumerable commercial transactions.
These considerations apply equally to securities created during,
as to those created before the commencement of, the suit; and
as well to controversies respecting their origin, as those respecting their transfer. Both are within the same mischief, and the
same reason.
This very question was involved in City of Lexington v. Butler, 14 Wall. 283. In that case, irregularities had occurred in
the preliminary proceedings, and the city authorities refused to
issue the bonds. A mandamus was applied for by the railroad
company, for whose use the bonds were intended; and a judgment of mandamus was rendered, to compel the city to issue
them, and it issued them accordingly. Subsequently, this judgment was reversed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and
an injunction was obtained to prevent the railroad company
from parting with the bonds. The injunction was not obeyed;
the bonds were negotiated whilst proceedings were still pending, and were purchased by the plaintiff for value before maturity, without any knowledge of these circumstances. This
court held that the bonds were valid in his hands. The point
in question received no discussion in the opinion of the court,
it is true; but it appeared on the pleadings, was made in the
argument, and must have been passed upon in arriving at the
judgment.
Whilst the doctrine of constructive notice arising from lis
though
.endens,
often severe in its application, is, on the whole,
a wholesome and necessary one, and founded on principles

POWDER

Co. v.

BURKHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

affecting the authoritative administration of justice; the exception to its application is demanded by other considerations
equally important, as affecting the free operations of commerce,
and that confidence in the instruments by which it is carried
on, which is so necessary in a business community. The considerations that give rise to the exception apply with full force
to the present case.
We think that the result reached by the Circuit Court was
correct.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE MILLER, MR.JUSTICE FIELD, and MR.JUSTICE HARLAwI

dissented.

NOTE.- In County of Warren v. Post and County of Warren v. Portsmouth Savings Bank, error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois, which were argued at the same time and by the same counsel
as was the preceding case, IR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, in delivering the opinion of
the court, remarked: These cases are in all respects similar to that of County
of Warren v. M'arcy, and must have the same result.
The judgments therein are respectively
Afflrned.
Mn JUSTICE MILLER, MR.JUSTICE FIELD, and MxS. JUSTICE HAY.LAN dis-

sented.

POWDER COMPANY v. BUIKHARDT.
An incorporated company entered into a contract with A., the owner of letterspatent for an explosive compound called "dualin," whereby he undertook
to manufacture it, as required by the company from time to time, in quantities sufficient to supply the demand for the same, and all sales produced or
effected by the company. The contract provided that all goods lie manufactured should be consigned to the company for sale, and all orders lie
receivcd should be transferred to it to be filled ; that the parties should
equally share the net profits arising from such sales, and equally bear all
losses by explosion, or otherwise, so far as the loss of the dualin was concerned, but the company assumed no risk on A.'s building or machinery; that
the company should, semi-monthly, advance to him, on his requisition, a stipulated sum, for paying salaries, for labor, and for his personal account, and
such further reasonable sums as might be required for incidental expenses of
manufacture; and should furnish him all the raw materials needed to manufacture said explosive in quantities sufficient to supply the demand created
by the company, or should advance the money necessary to purchase them,
-the said advances and the cost of such materials to be charged to him

