Oct. 1878.]

ARTHUR V. ]MoLLER.

Cases of the kind frequently occur; but if the case is well
brought up, and the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value
of S5,000, the writ of error or appeal, if sued out or taken
within two years from date of the judgment or decree, gives
this court jurisdiction to re-examine the alleged error or errors;
and the act of Congress requires that this court shall reverse,
modify, or affirm the judgment or decree.
Experience shows that eases are sometimes brought up for
delay; but the remedy provided by Congress for such an abuse
of process is that the Supreme Court may award to the respondent just damages for his delay, and single or double costs, in
their discretion. 1 Stat. 84.
Beyond doubt, the record shows that the decree in this case
was for the sum of $12,280, and that the appeal was taken on
the day the decree was entered, and that there was no irregularity in bringing up the case. Nor is any thing of the kind
pretended. Instead of that, the only objection is that it is a
second appeal, which is not a valid objection.

ARTHUR v. MOLLER.
Certain chromo-lithographs, printed from oil-stones upon paper, and known as
decalcomanie pictures, were imported. Held, that they were, as printed
papers, subject, under sect. 2504 of the Revised Statutes, to a duty of twentyfive per cent ad valorem.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The question involved in this case is, whether certain articles imported by the defendants, Charles Moller and Paul E.
Vacquerel, into the port of New York, known as decalcomanie
pictures, are subject to duties as "printed matter," or as
"manufactures of paper, or of which paper is a component
material, not otherwise provided for." 12 Stat. 192; 13 id.
218; Rev. Stat., p. 474, sect. 2504, also p. 479.
The statutes impose the duties in the language following;
niz., On "books, periodicals, pamphlets, blank-books, bound

AIRTHUR V. MOLLER.

[Sup. Ct

or unbound, and all printed matter, engravings, bound or unbound, illustrated books and papers, and maps and charts,
twenty-five per cent ad valorem." Rev. Stat., supra.
On "paper, sized or glued, suitable only for printing-paper,
twenty-five per cent ad valorem; printing, unsized, used for
books and newspapers exclusively, twenty per cent ad valorem ;
manufactured of, or of which paper is a component material
not otherwise provided for, thirty-five per cent ad valorem."
Id., p. 479, sect. 2504.
The goods in question were chromo-lithographs, consisting
of landscapes, scenery, and other figures, printed from oil-stones
upon paper, with one color printed on top of the other until
the picture is finished.
They are used for any purpose to which painting by hand
can be applied. There are no letters constituting language
upon the face of the paper.
They are made by means of lithographic stones, and printed
from the stones successively one after the other, according to
the number of colors; the difference between them and a
chromo-lithograph being that a cbromo is printed positive,
while decalcomaine is printed positive and negative, but chiefly
negative.
After the picture is printed, it is sometimes covered with a
metal leaf, which is also put on by the process of printing; a
sizing is printed on from the stone, the metal leaf being placed
on top of the sizing by hand, it being- too brittle to be placed
on by the roller, and it is run through the press, which prints
the metal leaf on top of the picture.
Arthur, the collector of the port, imposed and collected a
duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorem upon the articles, as
a manufacture of paper. The importers paid the duty under
protest, and brought suit to recover the excess. The court
below decided that the pictures were dutiable as printed matter,
and not as manufactures of paper, and gave judgment for the
plaintiffs. Arthur then brought the case here.
.Bfr. Assistant-Attorney- General Smith for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr.James B. Craig, contra.

Oct. 1878.]

ARTHUR V. M OLLER.

MR.JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that the decision of the court below was correct.
In Arthur v. Bheims (96 U. S. 143), it was held that the fact
that artificial flowers were a manufacture of cotton did not determine that they were dutiable as components of cotton, but
that they were properly taxable under the specific designatioi'
of "1artificial flowers."

The same was held to be true of india-rubber goods, in
Arthur v. Davis (id. 135), and of the steel forming a part of
spectacles, in Arthur v. Susfield (id. 129).
No one would contend that a picture by an eminent artist
painted on canvas would be subject to duties as a manufacture
of flax, or that a line engraving of a high order of merit would
come under the head of a manufacture of paper, or that a lithograph taken by a single impression does not fall under that
branch of the statute which imposes duties on prints or printed
matter.
We do not perceive that the fact that the result is produced
by several impressions, and of a different color at each time,
can make a difference in the conclusion. In country places, we
see posted the advertisements of circuses and shows and of
political meetings upon sheets of paper of large size, printed in
large type of various colors, red, black, and blue, and requiring
that the paper should pass more than once through the press.
It would be a novel idea that these sheets were not printed
matter.
It is not necessary, however, that the characters produced
should be letters or numerals, or the result of types or stereotypes, or be reading matter, but the term "print" or "printing" includes the most of the forms of figures or characters or
representations, colored or uncolored, that may be impressed
on a yielding surface.
Webster defines "to print:

"-

2. To take an impression of; to copy or take off the impress
of; to stamp.
3. Hence, specifically, to strike off an impression of, or impressions of, from types, stereotype or engraved. plates, or the
like, by means of a press; or to print books, handbills, newsvapers, pictures, and the like.

ARTHUR V. MOLLER.

[Sup. Ot.

4. To mark by pressure; to form an impression upon; to
cover with figures by a press or something analogous to it; as
to print calico, &c.
Print, noun: a mark made by impression; a line, character,
figure, or indentation made by the pressure of one body or
thing upon another.
8. A printed cloth; a fabric figured by stamping.
Lithograph: a print from a drawing on stone, . .. as a
lithographic picture.
Worcester says: "A mark, form, character; a figure made
by impression."
McElrath's " Commercial Dictionary," "Prints . . .impressions on paper, or engravings on copper,
steel, wood, or stone, representing some particular subject or
composition, and which may be either colored or uncolored.
"Lithographs, pictures, or designs printed on paper from the
lithographic stone, and on which they are traced or engraved.
Both when plain and when printed in colors they are commercially regarded as engravings."
E-omans's "1Encyclopedia of Commerce," "Prints: impressions, on paper or some substance, of engravings on copper, steel, wood, stone, &c., representing some
particular subject or composition. Prints, like painting, embrace every variety of subject, but differ very widely in the
manner in which they are engraved."
McCulloch's "Dictionary of Commerce" uses the same language.
The pictures in question were printed from lithographic
stones, by successive impressions, each impression giving a
different portion of the view and of a different color. Like
other pictures, they are made and used for the purpose of
ornament. Equally with engravings, copper-plates, and lithographs, they are printed, and properly fall within the statutory
designation of printed matter.
If further argument were needed, it would be found in the
principle noscitur a sooiis. "Printed matter" is named in the
list with engravings, maps, charts, illustrated papers. With
these, printed pictures are naturally associated.
With components and manufactures of paper are paper sized

Oct. 1878.]

TELEGRAPH

Co. v.

DAVENPORT.

or unsized and glued, used for books and newspapers exclusively.
These are descriptions of the article paper itself, and have no
natural relation to printed drawings or pictures.
Judgment affirmed.

TELEGRAPH Co:PANY v. DAVENPORT.
TELEGRAPH COMrPANY V. DAVENPORT.
1. The officers of a corporation are the custodians of its books; and it is their
duty to see that a transfer of shares of its capital stock is properly made,
either by the owner himself or by a person having authority from him.
In either case, they must act upon their own responsibility. Accordingly,
when the name of the owner of a certificate of stock had been forged to
a blank form of transfer, and to a power of attorney indorsed on it, and
the purchaser of the certificate in this form, using the forged power of
attorney, obtained a transfer of the stock on the books of the corporation,
- Held, in a suit by such owner against the corporation, that he was entitled to a decree compelling it to replace the stock on. its books in his name,
issue a proper certificate to him, and pay him the dividends received on the
stock after its unauthorized transfer, or to an alternative decree for the value
of the stock, with the amount of the dividends.
2. The negligence of their guardian cannot preclude minors from asserting, by
suit, their right to stock belonging to them, which was so sold and transferred. If competent to transfer it, or to approve of the transfer made,
they must, to create an estoppel against them, have, by some act or declaration by which the corporation was misled, authorized the use of their
names, or subsequently approved such use by accepting the purchase-money
with knowledge of the transfer; but under the statute of Ohio, where the
minors who are the complainants herein resided, they were not, nor, without the authority of the Probate Court, was their guardian, competent to
authorize a sale of their property.
APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
These are suits in equity to compel the defendant, a corporation created under the laws of New York, to replace, in the
name of the complainants, certain shares of its capital stock
alleged to have belonged to them, and to have been transferred
without their authority on its books to other parties; and to
issue to them proper certificates for the same; and also to pay
to them the dividends received on the shares since such unauvor. vii.

24

