Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

to make his purchases; for this purpose he had long been in
the habit of temporarily overdrawing his account: the note
which he renewed was not a regular business note, given in
ordinary course, but was made to effect a loan from the bank
apparently of a more permanent character than an ordinary discount; and his manner of doing business was the same as it had
always been. That he was actually insolvent when the trustdeed was executed, there is little doubt; but he was largely
indebted in Galesburg, in a different county from that in which
Monmouth is situated; and there is no evidence that the officers
of the bank had any knowledge of this indebtedness.
Without going into the evidence in detail, it seems to us that
it only establishes the fact that the officers of the bank had
reason to be suspicious of the bankrupt's insolvency, when
their security was obtained; but that it falls short of establishing that they had reasonable cause to believe that he was
insolvent.
-Decreeaffirmed.

CoUIxTY OF BATES v. WINTERS.
On April 5,1870, the county court of Bates County, Missouri, having received the
requisite petition, ordered that an election be held May 3 in Mount Pleasant
township, for the purpose of determining whether a subscription of $90,000
should be made on behalf of the township to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company, to be paid for in the bonds of
the county, upon certain conditions and qualifications set forth in the order.
The election resulted in favor of the subscription; whereupon the court, June
14, 1870, made an order that said sum "be, and is hereby, subscribed . . .
subject to and in pursuance of all the terms, restrictions, and limitations" of
the order of April 5,and that the agent of the court be authorized and directed
to make said subscription, on behalf of the township, on the stock-books of
said company, and, in making it, to have copied in full the order of the court
as the conditions on which it was made, and that he report his acts to the
court. The agent, Dec. 19, 1870, reported that the company had no stockbooks, for which, and other reasons, he did not make the subscription, concluding his report with the words, "the bonds of said township are, therefore,
not subscribed," which report was formally adopted by the court. Jan. 18,
1871, the county court made another order, reciting that the subscription had
been made to said Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company; that
a consolidation had been made between that and another company, resulting in the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, and directing that

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

[Sup. 0t.

$90,000 of bonds be issued to the latter company in payment and satisfaction
of said original subscription. The order concluded by authorizing the agent
of the court "to subscribe said stock" to said Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company. The agent made the subscription on the books of that company, which was accepted by it, and a certificate of stock issued to the county.
The bonds recite on their face that they are issued to the Lexington, Lake,
and Gulf Railroad Company, in payment of the subscription to the Lexington,
Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company, authorized by the vote of the people
held May 3, 1870, and that the two companies were consolidated, as required
by law. Held, 1. That the action of the county court on June 14, 1870, was
not final and self-executing, and did not constitute a subscription to the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company. 2. That the issue of the
bonds to the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company was not authorized
by the election held May 3, 1870. 3. That there can be no recovery on said
bonds, as their invalidity is shown by their recitals.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
The county of Bates, in the State of Missouri, brought this
writ of error to reverse a judgment rendered against it in favor
of Jonathan Winters and Valentine Winters, for the snm of
$6,251.14, the amount of certain bonds and coupons issued by
said county in behalf of Mount Pleasant township. The bonds
were a part of a series amounting to 890,000, purporting to be
issued upon an election authorizing a subscription to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad
Company. They, and the coupons attached to them, are in
the following form: -

"No. 56.]

UNITED STATES OF AmRIcA.

[81,000.

"State of MAissouri, County of Bates.
"Issued pursuant to articles of consolidation in payment of stock
due the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, consolidated
Oct. 4, A.D. 1870.

"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Bates, in the
State of Missouri, acknowledges itself indebted and firmly bound to
the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, in the sum of
$1,000, which sum the said county of Bates, for and in behalf of
Mount Pleasant township therein, promises to pay the said Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, or bearer, at the Bank of
America, in the city and State of New York, on the eighteenth day
of January, A.D. 1886, together with interest thereon,

fiom the

eighteenth day of January, A.D. 1871, at the rate of ten per cent

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF BATES v. WINTERS.

per annum, which interest shall be payable annually on the presentation and delivery at said Bank of America of the coupons hereto
attached.
"This bond being issued under and pursuant to an order of the
county court of Bates County, by virtue of an act of the General
Assembly of the State of Missouri, approved March 28, 1868, entitled IAn Act to facilitate the construction of railroads in the State
of Missouri,' and authorized by a vote of the people, taken May 8,
1870, as required by law, upon the proposition to subscribe $90,000
to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad
Company, and which said railroad company last aforesaid and the
former, Pleasant Hill Division of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and
Gulf Railroad Company, were, on the fourth day of October, 1870,
consolidated, as required by law, into one company, under the name
of the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company; and which
said last-named railroad company, as provided by law and under
the terms of said consolidation thereof, possesses all the powers,
rights, and privileges, and owns and controls all the assets, subscription bonds, moneys, and properties whatever, of the two
said several companies forming said consolidation, or either one
of them.
"In testimony whereof, the said county of Bates has executed this
bond by the presiding justice of the county court of said county
under the order thereof, signing his name hereto, and by the clerk
of said court under the order thereof, attesting the same and affixing the seal of said court.
"This done at the city of Butler, county of Bates, this eighteenth
day of January, A.D. 1871.
COUNTY COURT, BATES
coUTY, 3o., SL-A.

"Attest :

"W. J.
"$100.]

B. H. THORNTON,
"Presiding Justice of the County Court of Bates
County, Mo.

SMITr,
"Clerk of the County Court of Bates County, Mo."

BUTLER, BATES COUNTY, MO.

[$100.

"Jan. 18, A.D. 1871.
"The county of Bates acknowledges to owe the sum of $100, payable to bearer, on the eighteenth day of January, 1872, at the Bank
of America, in the city and State of New York, for one year's interest on bond No. 56.

"W. J. SMTH,
"Clerk of the County Court, Bates C=W.u; Mo."

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

[Sup. Ct.

The Constitution of Missouri, sect. 14, art. 11, prescribes,

-

"The General Assembly shall not authorize any county, city, or
town to become a stockholder in, or to loan its credit to, any company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified
voters of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special election
to be held therein, shall assent thereto."
The statute of that State of March 23, 1868, enacted, that
whenever twenty-five persons, tax-payers and residents of a
municipal township, should set forth their desire to subscribe
to the capital stock of a railroad company proposing to build a
road into or near said town, it should be the duty of the county
court to order an election, to determine if such subscription
should be made; and, if it should appear that two-thirds of the
qualified voters voting at such election were in favor of such
subscription, it should be the duty of the county court to make
such subscription in behalf of the township according to the
terms and conditions thereof, and . . . to issue bonds in the

name of the county. Wagner, Stat. p. 818, sect. 551; Laws
Mo., 1868, p. 92.
The authority on the part of Bates County to issue its bonds
to the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company is based
upon the following proceedings: On the fifth day of April, 1870, the county court of Bates
County, having received such a petition, ordered an election, at
which the electors of Mount Pleasant township should determine whether they would subscribe $90,000 to the Lexington,
Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company, to be paid in bonds,
upon the terms and with the numerous conditions and qualifications in the said order particularly set forth.
The election resulted in favor of making the subscription;
and on the 14th of June, 1870, the county court made an order
"that the sum of $90,000 be, and is hereby, subscribed to the
capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad
Company, in the name and behalf of Mount Pleasant township,
subject to and in pursuance of all the terms, restrictions, and
limitations . . . of the order of the court" so made as afore-

said; and that the agent be authorized to make such subscription on the books of the company; and in making it he be

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

87

directed to have copied in full the order of the court, as the
conditions on which the subscription is made, and that he report his acts to the court.
One of these conditions was, that from the proceeds of the
sale of said bonds there should be paid to said company,
monthly, ninety per cent of the monthly estimate of the wolk
done on said road in Mount Pleasant township; and it authorized said bonds to be issued when all of the said road south of
Lexington to the north line of Mount Pleasant township should
have been located and put under contract.
The agent went to Lexington for the purpose of making the
subscription, and carried with him a copy of the records of the
county court, as he says, "for the purpose of showing his authority to act in the premises; " but the company had no books,
by reason whereof he did not make the subscription; he sought
to withdraw or reclaim his papers, but the company refused to
allow him to do so. He went again for the same purpose, but,
being dissatisfied with the condition of the company, did not
make the subscription; and on the nineteenth day of December, 1870, reported his doings to the county court, ending in
the words, "the bonds of said township are, therefore, not
subscribed." This report was formally approved by the county
court.
Seven months after making the order above set forth, and on
the 18th of January, 1871, the county court made another
order, which recited that the subscription had been made to said
Chillicothe Company, that a consolidation had been made between that and another company, resulting in the Lexington,
Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company; and it directed that $90,000
of bonds be issued to the latter company, in payment and satisfaction of the original subscription as aforesaid; and concluded: "Said James M. Boreing (their agent to receive and
dispose of the bonds) is hereby authorized to subscribe said
stock to said railroad company," the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf
Railroad Company.
Boreing did make the subscription on the books of the new
company, which was accepted by that company; and then, for
the first time, a certificate of stock was issued to the county.
The court below found that the defendants in error were

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

[Sup. Ct.

bonafide holders, for value, of the bonds and coupons in suit,
before maturity, without notice of any defect in the issue of
the bonds, except such as they were bound in law to take
notice of, and such as the face of the bonds imparted to
them.
Mr. Thomas C. Beynolds and Messrs. Glover & Shipley for
the plaintiff in error.
The subscription of $90,000 to the capital stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company, authorized by
the election held May 3, 1870, was never made.
The pretended subscription to the stock of another company,
which was not in existence at the time of holding the election,
and the bonds issued in payment of such subscription, are void,
inasmuch as the county court, as the mere agent of the township, bad no power in the premises beyond that conferred by
said vote. ffarshman v. Bates County, 92 U. S. 569; County
of Scotland v. Thomas, 94 id. 682.
The recitals in the bonds are sufficient notice of every material fact which affects their validity.
iVr. T. -. Skinker, contra.
The transfer of the original subscription, and the issue of
the bonds to the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company, were lawful. The order of the county court, of June
14. 1870, subscribing, in pursuance of the popular vote cast
on the third day of the preceding month, $90,000 to the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Company, is itself obligatory,
without a formal acceptance by the company, or an actual subscription on its books. Justices of Clarke County v. Paris,J'c.
Turnpike Co., 11 B. Mon. (Ky.) 143. The county court properly regarded that order as equivalent to a subscription, and as
legally binding. Its subsequent orders direct the bonds to be
issued "in payment of said original subscription." That the
subscription was accepted by the company is manifest from
their refusal to permit the agent of the county to withdraw the
copies of the orders of the county court, which he had brought
with him to transcribe on the stock-book of the company. The
subscription could be lawfully transferred to the consolidated
company, and the issue of bonds to the latter was lawful.
.Nugent v. The Supervisors, 19 Wall. 241.

Oct.1877.]

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

MR. JUSTICE HUxT delivered the opinion of the court.

If we hold that there was no valid subscription until that
made on the 18th of January, 1871, which was to the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Road Company, it is open to the objection
that the township voted an authority to subscribe to the stock
of one company, and the county court subscribed to the stock
of a different company. This was condemned in iarslkman
v. Bates County (92 U. S. 569), which arose upon the same
issue of bonds and in relation to the same roads as the case
before us. That case has since been modified as to the first
point decided in it, in relation to the number of votes required
to authorize the subscription, but remains unimpaired as to the
point we are considering.
It is said that the subscription was, in law, made on the 14th
of June, 1870, to the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad
Company; and that, having been made by the authority of the
popular vote, it could be transferred to the consolidated organization. Nugent v. Ve Supervisors (19 Wall. 241) is cited to
sustain this proposition.
It is decided, in that case, that an actual, manual subscription
on the books of a company is not indispensable; that where an
order was made by a county court, which said that it subscribed
for a specified number of shares of railroad stock, which was
accepted by the company, and notice of such acceptance given
to the county court, when the minds of the parties met, and
both understood that a contract had been made, and where
the county court had accepted the position of a stockholder,
received certificates for the stock subscribed, and voted as a
stockholder, that these facts constituted a valid subscription.
In County of Moultrie v. Savings Ban7 (92 U. S. 631) a like
decision was had, and upon like facts. In declaring the resolution of the corporation to have been an executed subscription,
the court use this language: "The authorized body of a
municipal corporation may bind it by an ordinance, which, in
favor of private persons interested therein, may, if so intended,
operate as a contract; or they may bind it by a resolution, or
by vote clothe its officers with power to act for it. The former
was the clear intention in this case. The board clothed no

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

[Sup. Ct.

officer with power to act for it. The resolution to subscribe
was its own act, its immediate subscription."
A similar case is that of Justices of Clarke County v. Paris,
&e.(11 B. Mon. (Ky.) 143), where the order was entered in
these words (in part): " With the concurrence of all the magistrates of the county, ordered, that the county court of Clarke
County subscribe, as they hereby do, for fifty shares of stock in
the Paris" Company, &c. The court say (at p. 146): "It is
manifest on the face of the order that it was made as a subscription. The suspending order of October calls it a subscription,
and the evidence shows that it was so intended and understood
when made, both by the court which made it and by the
company which solicited and accepted it."
The present case is quite a different one. The order of the
county court was not intended, as in the cases referred to, to be
final and self-executing. While it recited that the sum named
should be, and was thereby, subscribed, it "authorized and
directed " the agent "to make said subscription on the stockbooks of the said company," upon the conditions specified, and
to report to the court thereon.
Having failed, for the reasons given by him, to make the
subscription, the agent reported to the county court his doings,
and "that the bonds of the township are not, therefore, subscribed;" and the county court approved his report.
A subscription to the amount of $90,000 was made in January, 1871, by color of said authority, on the books of the
Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company. This subscription was accepted by that company, and a certificate of stock
to the amount of such subscription was then, for the first time,
issued to the county.
The company whose stock was thus received has graded in
part the road, but never completed it. The county of Bates
or the town of Mount Pleasant has never, in fact, received any
benefit from this issue of its bonds.
The county court did not intend their action in June, 1870,
to be final, and did not understand that a subscription was
thereby completed. Their vote was a declaration that the
power to subscribe should be exercised, and was an authority
to their agent to perfect a contract with the railroad company.

Oct. 1877.]

COUNTY OF BATES V. WINTERS.

on the conditions set forth. No acceptance was made by the
railroad company, no notice of acceptance was given, nor was
there any act or fact which afforded a pretext for saying that
the railroad company was bound by the contract of subscription. While it refused to allow the agent to withdraw his evidence of authority, it said nothing and did nothing to indicate
that the minds of the parties had met upon the terms of a
subscription. The county court was precise and particular in
requiring those conditions to be copied in full on the books of
the company, as the conditions on which the subscription was
made; and there could be no mutual contract until the railroad
company assented, on its part, to those conditions.
At a subsequent time, Jan. 18, 1871, when it had determined
to issue bonds to a different company, and apparently as its
justification for so doing, the county court recited that a sub
scription had been made to the Chillicothe road. It at once,
and in the same order, contradicted and repudiated this recital,
by directing a subscription for $90,000 of bonds in the Lexington and Lake Railroad Company. If the subscription had
been made before to one company, there was no occasion or
authority for a subscription to another. This historical statement furnishes no satisfactory evidence of an actual or legal
subscription in June, 1870.
We are of the opinion that the action of the county court
on the 14th of June, 1870, did not constitute a subscription to
the stock of the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Lake Railroad
Company, and that the case of the defendants in error is fatally
defective, under the ruling of farshman v. Bates County, in this:
that the popular vote gave authority tp subscribe to the Lexington, Chillicothe, and Gulf Railroad Company, while the subscription was made and the bonds issued to a different company, to
wit, to the Lexington, Lake, and Gulf Railroad Company.
The same decision holds that the recitals in the bonds are
such that there can be no bona fide holders of them; and to
the like effect in principle is lfe Clure v. Township of Oxford,
94 U. S. 429.
The judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded to
the Circuit Court, with directions to proceed to a new trial,
according to the views above expressed; and it is
So ordered.

ELDRIDGE V. HILL.

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD, with whom concurred MR.
SWAYNE and MR. JUSTICE STROxG, dissenting.

[Sup. Ct.
JUSTICE

I dissent from the opinion in this case, upon the ground that
it is in conflict with prior decisions of this court upon the same
subect.

ELDRIDGE v. HILL.
Forty-four record-books, some deeds, mortgages, and other papers of a county
having been stolen, the county officers deposited $3,600 in the hands of A.,
upon condition that it should, upon the return of the stolen property, be paid
to the person causing the return. It was also stipulated that the failure to
"deliver some small paper or papers" should not invalidate the agreement.
Within the time limited, A. received a paper, signed by the deputy-sheriff of
the county, acknowledging the receipt of the record-books, "also papers and
small index-books." He thereupon paid the money to the person presenting
the receipt. The county then brought suit against A. to recover the money,
alleging that some of the books were, upon their return, in such a damaged
condition as to be rendered comparatively worthless, and that he had, therefore, not performed his contract. Held, that A., being a simple bailee of the
money deposited in his hands, without comrensation, was not, in the absence
of bad faith on his part, responsible for the condition of the property at the
time of its return.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. M1att. H. Carpenterfor the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. B. F Heightley, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of exceptions in this case shows that forty-four
record-books, and some deeds, mortgages, and other papers,
were, on the night of the 28th of June, 1872, stolen from
the office of the register of deeds of the county of St. Joseph,
Mich.
After an unavailing effort for over two months to recover
them, the officers of the county seem to have come to an understanding with some detectives, by which they were to deposit
in Chicago, with the law firm of Eldridge & Tourtelotte, now
plaintiffs in error, the sum of $3,500, to be paid to the person

