Oct. 1877.-]

HERBERT

v.

BUTLER.

disposing of the business are not added to by the neglect of
ounsel or parties. For this reason, our rules requiring causes
be ready for hearing when reached are, and will continue to
be, rigidly enforced.
Motion denied.

HERBERT

v. BUTLER.

1 A paper incorporated in the record, and certified to be a part thereof by the
court below, if it has all the requisites of a bill of exceptions, will be considered here as such, although it be otherwise entitled.
2. Where the burden of proof is on the plaintiff, and the evidence submitted to
sustain the issue is such that a verdict in his favor would be set aside, the
court is not bound to submit the case to the jury, but may direct them to
find a verdict for the defendant.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of New York.
This was an action brought by Herbert for money had and
received for his use by Butler. Plea, general issue. The parties were the only witnesses in the case. Judgment for the
defendant. Herbert sued out this writ of error.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

-fr. Jasper K. Herbert for the plaintiff in error.
Mfr. Thomas J. -Durant,contra.
JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
There are two questions in this case: first, whether. there is
any bill of exceptions by which we are authorized to look into
the proceedings at the trial; and, secondly, whether, if there is
such a bill, there is any ground for reversing the judgment.
First,Is there'a bill of exceptions ? The document relied
on by the plaintiff in error as constituting such a bill, and certified from the court below as part of the record, is appended
to the record of the pleadings and judgment, and commences
as follows : "The following case and exceptions is agreed on by the
attorneys for Jasper K. Herbert, plaintiff, and Benjamin F.
Butler, defendant." Then follow the title of the cause, a record

MR.

HERBERT v. BUTLER.

[Sup. Or.

of the proceedings had, and the evidence given at the triali
including the rulings of the judge and the exceptions thereto ;
and the case thus presented closes with the judge's certificate,
as follows: "Settled as within, pursuant to the above consent.
Sept. 19, 1875. (Signed) Charles L. Benedict."
If this paper had been entitled a "bill of exceptions," instead
of a "case and exceptions," there could not be any doubt that
it would be a sufficient bill. It has all the requisites of a bill,
except the mere name. A seal is not required, being expressly
dispensed with by the act of 1872 (17 Stat. 197; Rev. Stat.,
sect. 958 ); and we had before decided that a seal is not essential in the courts of the United States. Generes v. Campbell,
11 Wall. 193. It has the sanction and signature of the judge,
and, though settled after the trial, it was agreed upon by the
parties; and hence it is free from objections which have
prevailed in other cases. Generes v. Bonnemer, 7 id. 564;
Graham v. Bayne, 18 How. 60. We think it is a sufficient
bill of exceptions.
Secondly, Was any error committed in the ruling of the
judge ? The bill of exceptions shows that, after the evidence
was concluded on both sides, the judge directed the jury to
find a verdict for the defendant. To this direction the plaintiff
excepted, and it is the only error assigned here. The evidence
is all set out in the bill, and the question is, whether the judge
erred in not submitting it to the jury.
We decided in Improvement Company v. Munson (14 Wall.
442) and Pleasants v. Pant (22 id. 116), that although there
may be some evidence in favor of a party, yet if it is insufficient
to sustain a verdict, so that one based thereon would be set
aside, the court is not bound to submit the case to the jury,
but may direct them what verdict to render. As the question
is fully discussed in those cases, it is unnecessary to repeat the
discussion here.
After carefully examining the evidence, we are of opinion
that it justified the direction given.
The plaintiff testified, in substance, that G. B. Lamar, having
obtained a judgment for $579,000 against the United States in
the Court of Claims, and an appeal therefrom being pending
in this court in October, 1873, Lamar employed him (the

Oct. 1877.]

OiERBERT v. BUTLER.

plaintiff) to get the appeal dismissed, and agreed to give him
520,000 for doing so; that he (the plaintiff) thereupon employed the defendant to assist him, agreeing to divide his fee
with him, to which the defendant consented; that thereupon
the defendant proceeded and procured the dismissal of the
appeal; that the plaintiff, not getting his fee, called on Lamar,
who informed him that he had paid it to the defendant; that,
on applying to the defendant, he admitted having received the
money from Lamar, but denied that he had received any thing
for the plaintiff.
The plaintiff further produced Lamar's check to the defendant's order for the sum of $25,000, dated April 16, 1874, and
the defendant's receipt, dated April 17, 1874, in the following
words "Received, Washington, April 17, 1874, of Gazaway B. Lamar,
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000), in full for retainer and services as counsel in the trial of his case against Albert G. Brown and
others, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the First Circuit, at Boston, and also in the preparations of the bill of exceptions
and entry of the same in the Supreme Court of the United States,
and also for retainer and argument of motion to dismiss the case in
the Supreme Court of the United States, appellant, against him, from
the judgment of the Court of Claims, and services in preparing a
motion for dismissing the appeal, this being in full of all services and
demands due by said Lamar up to and including the date on which
said appeal was dismissed.
"BENVJ.

F. BUTLER."

The defendant, in his testimony, admitted the fact that he
was employed by Lamar, through the plaintiff, in the matter
of dismissing the appeal; he also admitted the receipt of the
$25,000, but stated that he received this money in settlement
of his own services alone; that he had been engaged in various
other professional matters for Lamar, both before and after the
dismissal of the appeal, and that his fees for these services
were all included in the amount; and that he never received
any thing from Lamar for the plaintiff. In addition to this,
he produced in evidence a letter from the plaintiff to himself,
dated April 9, 1874, and his answer thereto, dated April 12,
1874, of which the following are copies: VOL. VIL

21

[Sup Ct.

HERBERT v. BUTLER.

"6LAw OFFICES OF

ERBERT & WILBER,

"58 BROADWAY, NEW YoRK, April 9, 1874.
"MY DEAR GEN.,-I am glad to see that Lamar's appeal is dismissed.
"He agreed with me to pay $20,000 to have it dismissed; this
with me. I immediately went to Washington and employed you.
When you asked me, 'What about fees?' I replied, 'You can have
$5,000 or $10,000 if you like. I have an agreement with Lamar.'
You said 'All right; on that assurance I will go to work;' and we
started off for the Attorney-General's office.
"Subsequently you told Lamar that ' I (you) must command the
ship, or you would not sail,' or words to that effect.
" Since that time I have left the matter with you.
"Now I want to have you understand in relation to this matter,
as I stated to you before leaving Washington, that Lamar's agreement is for $20,000 to have the appeal dismissed. I want you to
collect the money and send me a check for any portion to which you
may think me entitled.
"I advised Lamar, when in Boston, to employ you and me in this
case. The employment did not come until others had failed, which
made it more difficult.
"Nevertheless, the agreement between L. and myself, before I
would call on you in regard to it, was as I have stated.
"Lamar is in Washington, and I leave the balance to you.
J. K. HERBERT.
H
"Yours truly,
"Hon B. F. BUTLER,

"Washington, D. 0."
"HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
" WASnRNGTox, D. C., April 12, 1874.

"SiR, -I

have no power or authority to collect money in the case

of Mr. Lamar, nor can Icollect your fees.
"Very truly yours,
"J. K. HERBERT,
" 58 Broadway, New York."

BEwj. F. BUTLER.

It was after this correspondence, and after the defendant had
settled with Lamar, that the plaintiff (as testified by him)
called on Lamar, and was informed by him that he had paid
the defendant; and that the defendant, on being applied to,
admitted the receipt of the money, but denied having received
any thing for the plaintiff.

Oct. 1877.]

THE "CITY OF HARTFORD"

AND THE "UNIT."

323

Now, it is evident from this outline of the evidence that
upon the issue made by the pleadings, namely, whether the
defendant received any money for the use of the plaintiff, there
was no necessary conflict in their testimony. The plaintiff
may think that the defendant ought to have collected his (the
plaintiff's) fees, as well as his own. But he cannot deny that
the defendant expressly refused to do so when applied to for
that purpose; and he does not, for he cannot, deny that the
defendant (as he says, and as his receipt shows) may, in fact,
have settled his own fees alone. Lamar's declaration cannot
affect the defendant, especially in view of the express language
of the receipt taken by him. Therefore, as the burden of proof
was on the plaintiff to sustain the issue, and as the whole evidence taken together does not sustain it on his part, but the
only direct evidence on the subject- namely, the testimony of
the defendant, and the receipt given by him to Lamar -is to
the contrary, the judge properly directed the jury to find for the
defendant.
The minor points in which there may have been a conflict in
the testimony of the parties do not affect the main question.
Judgment affirmed.

T

"CITY

OF HARTFORD"

AND TME "UNIT."

1. A steamboat collided with and sunk a schooner towed by a tug. The owner
of the schooner and the owner of her cargo severally libelled the steamboat
and tug, both of which were found to be in fault. Held, that each libellant
was entitled to a decree against each of the offending vessels for a moiety
of his damages, and for interest and costs, with a proviso that if either of
said vessels was unable to pay such moiety, then he should have a remedy
over against the other vessel for any balance thereof which might remain
unpaid.
2. The Alabama and the Game-cock (92 U. S. 695) and The Virginia Ehrman and
the Agnese (supra, p. 309) reaffirmed.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Hudson S. Rideout and others, owners of, the schooner
"A bbie S. Oakes," and Charles Robinson, owner of her cargo,

