UNITED STATES V. CLAFLIN.

[Sup. Or.

UNITED STATES V. CLAFLIX.
1. An action of debt cannot be maintained by the United States to recover the
penalties prescribed by the fourth section of the act of Congress approved
July 18, 1866 (14 Stat. 179), entitled "An Act to prevent smuggling, and
for other purposes." That act contemplated a criminal proceeding and not
a civil remedy.
2. Nor does sect. 3082 of the Revised Statutes authorize a civil action.
3. A recital in a statute, that a former statute was repealed or superseded by subsequent acts, is not conclusive as to such repeal or supersedure. Whether a
statute was so repealed is a judicial, not a legislative question.
4. A statute covering the whole subject-matter of a former one, adding offences and varying the procedure, operates not cumulatively, but by way
of substitution, and, therefore, impliedly repeals it. In the absence of any
repealing clause, it is, however, necessary to the implication of a repeal that
the objects of the two statutes are the same. If they are not, both statutes
will stand, though they refer to the same subject.
5. The second section of the act of Congress of 'March 3, 1823 (3 Stat. 781), entitled "An Act to amend an act entitled 'An Act further to regulate the
entry of merchandise imported into the United States from any adjacent
territory,'" was supplied by the fourth section of the act of July 18, 1866
(supra), and thereby repealed. Stockwell v. United States (13 Wall. 531)
reviewed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The Attorney-Generaland The Solicitor-Generalfor the United
States.
Mr.Joseph H. Ohoate, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of debt brought by the United States to
recover the amounts of several forfeitures or liabilities alleged
to have been incurred by the defendants in consequence of
their having received, concealed, and bought goods, wares, and
merchandise illegally imported, knowing them to have been
illegally imported and liable to seizure. The declaration con
tains thirty counts. Of these, the first and every alternate oddnumbered one is founded on the, act of Congress of March 3,
1828. 3 Stat. 781, c. 58, sect. 2. They charge illegal importations at different times between Dec. 1, 1871, and Sept. 1,

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. CLAFLIN.

1873, inclusive; also receipts, concealments, or purchases of
the goods by the defendants between the first-mentioned date
and Sept. 2, 1873, inclusive, with knowledge that the goods
had been illegally imported. All the other counts, those evennumbered, are founded upon the fourth section of the act of
July 18, 1866. 14 id. 179, c. 201, sect. 4. The importations,
receipts, concealments, or purchases charged in these counts
are averred to have taken place at the times designated in the
odd-numbered counts.
To the entire declaration the defendants interposed a general
demurrer, upon which the Circuit Court gave judgment in their
favor. Whether this judgment was correct is the underlying
question we have now to consider. That the counts framed
under sect. 4 of the act of 1866 cannot be sustained is too
clear for debate, and the government very properly has abandoned them as unsustainable. That act contemplated a criminal proceeding, and not a civil action of debt. It imposed a
penalty for receiving, concealing, buying, selling, or in any
manner facilitating the transportation, concealment, or sale of
goods illegally imported. The penalty was a fine on conviction,
not exceeding $5,000 nor less than $50, or imprisonment, or
both, at the discretion of the court. It is obvious, therefore,
that its provisions cannot be enforced by any civil action, certainly not in an action of debt.
The single question left, then, is whether the counts founded
on the act of 1823 are sustainable. The second section of that
act was as follows: "That if any person or persons shall receive, conceal, or buy any
goods, wares, or merchandise, knowing them to have been illegally
imported into the United States, and liable to seizure by virtue of
any act in relation to the revenues, such person or persons shall, on
conviction thereof, forfeit and pay a sum double the amount or value
of the goods, wares, or merchandise so received, concealed, or purchased."
If this section was in force in 1871, 1872, and 1873, when
the illegal importations alleged in this case were made, it is not
denied that the odd-numbered counts in the declaration have
a sufficient basis on which to stand, and that the demurrer

UNITED STATES V. CLAFLIN.

[Sup. Ct.

should have been overruled. But the defendants contend that
the section was repealed by the act of 1866, so far as it can
affect transactions occurring after the passage of the later act;
and such was the opinion of the Circuit Court. The act of
1866 did not expressly repeal the second section of the act of
1823. The forty-third section repealed several acts specified
by it, some prior and others subsequent to the act of 1823, and
concluded with the sweeping clause, " and all other acts and
parts of acts conflicting with or supplied" by it. If, therefore,
it worked a repeal of the said second section, it must be because
it supplied the provisions of that section, or was in conflict
with them. And such supply and repugnance must plainly
appear. The Circuit Court placed some reliance -their principal reliance, indeed -upon the action of Congress when the
Revised Statutes were enacted in 1874. Those statutes undoubtedly repealed the act of 1823, if it had not been repealed
before. In sect. 5596 it. was thus enacted:
"All acts of Congress passed prior to said first day of December,
1873, any portion of which is embraced in any section of said revision, are hereby repealed, and the section applicable thereto shall
be in force in lieu thereof; all parts of such acts not contained in
such revision having been repealed or superseded by subsequent
acts, or not being general or permanent in their nature'
As a portion of the act of 1823 was carried into the Revised
Statutes (see sect. 3099), and the second section was not, that
section was covered by the repealing clause, unless it had been
repealed before. But that clause indicates a belief on the part
of Congress that it had been previously repealed, and, doubtless, that it was repealed by the act of 1866. The indication
is found in the words that declare all parts of acts not contained in the revision, but other portions of which are, to
have been repealed or superseded by subsequent acts. This,
however, though entitled to great respect, ought not to be considered as more than an expression of opinion or a recital of
belief. It is not in the form of an enactment. It is not a
declaration of congressional will. It is not a rule for the future. It certainly is not conclusive that the second section was
repealed or superseded by the act of 1866, or by any other act

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. CLAFLIN.

prior to the enactment of the revision. Whether a statute was
repealed by a later one is a judicial, not a legislative question.
And even a declaratory act, or an act directing how a former
act shall be construed, is inoperative on the past, though controlling in future. Postmaster-General v. Early, 12 Wheat.
136.
It is, therefore, still a question of judicial construction
whether the second section of the act of 1823 was in fact repealed by the act of 1866, that is, whether it was in conflict
with that later act or supplied by it; for, as we have said, the
act of 1866, while repealing expressly certain prior acts particularly described (the act of 1823 not being one of them),
repealed only such other acts or parts of acts as were in conflict
with it or were supplied by it.
In Stockwell v. United States (13 Wall. 531), the question
was before us. That was an action of debt brought by the
United States to recover double the value of certain importations alleged to have been illegally made, and received, concealed, or bought by the defendants, with knowledge that the
goods had been illegally imported. The action was founded
on the second section of the act of March 3, 1823, as are the
counts we are now considering. The importations were made
and the goods were received and sold before the passage of the
act of 1866. We held that the action would lie, and, as the
jury found the defendants knew the goods had been illegally
imported, that they had incurred the liabilities imposed by the
second sectibn of the act of 1823. Hence we gave judgment
in favor of the United States. We are still of the opinion
that the judgment was correct; for even if the act of 1823
was repealed by that of 1866, the liabilities incurred under it
before its repeal were preserved, if not by the forty-fourth section of the repealing act, certainly by the act of Feb. 18, 1867,
entitled "An Act supplementary to an act to prevent smuggling, and for other purposes," approved July 18, 1866. The
first section of that act enacted as follows: "That the provisions of the act of Congress approved July 18,
1866, entitled 'An Act to prevent smuggling, and for other purposes,' shall be so construed as not to affect any right of suit or

UNITED

STATES V. OLAFLIN.

[Sup. Ct.

prosecution which may have accrued under any prior act of Congress repealed or supplied by said act previous to July 18, 1866;
and all such suits or prosecutions as have been or shall be commenced under such prior acts for acts committed previous to July
18, 1866, shall be tried and disposed of, and judgment or decree
executed, as if said act of July 18, 1866, had not been passed, any
thing therein contained to the contrary notwithstanding."
As the offences charged in that case occurred before the
act of 1866 was passed, they were within this declaratory act,
and therefore the act of 1823 was enforceable against the
offenders.
The act of 1887 was not called to our notice when the case
of Stockwell v.The U ited States was before us. If it had been,
it would have been unnecessary to consider at all whether the
act of 1866 had repealed any former acts. But in the absence
of any reference to it, we felt called upon to inquire whether
the act of 1823 was repealed by the enactment of 1866; and
we held that its second section was not, certainly not so as to
affect that suit, brought to enforce liabilities incurred before
the later act was passed. It is true that in reaching this conelusion we took broader ground. We argued that the second
section of the act of 1823 and the fourth section of the act of
1866 were not in conflict with each other, and that the former
was not supplied by the latter. We regarded the first as a
remedial provision intended to secure compensation for interference with the rights of the United States, and for that
purpose giving a civil remedy, while the second was, as we
thought, strictly penal and not at all remedial. Our inference,
therefore, was that the later act did not supply the provisions
of the former, and should not be regarded as a substitute for
them. A further consideration, however, and a more extended
examination than we were then able to give the subject, have
led us to doubt the correctness of the opinion we expressed
when the case of Stockwell was before us, though not the
correctness of our judgment in the case. The real question is,
Was the act of 1866 intended by Congress to be a substitute
for the second section of the act of 1823 ? When it was enacted,
Congress had in view as well the offence described in the act

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. CLAFLIN.

of 1823 as other offences against the revenue laivs. It mentions in iipsissimis verbis the offence created by that act. Its
provisions are also broader in their scope. It includes offences
by importers. It adds to the offences described in the act of
1823, selling the illegally imported goods, and facilitating in
any manner their transportation, concealment, or sale after
their importation, knowing them to have been imported contrary to law; and for each of these offences, as well as for
those described in the act of 1823, it imposes a forfeiture of
the goods, and prescribes a fine on conviction not exceeding
$5,000 nor less than $50, or imprisonment, or both, at the discretion of the court.
What, then, was its effect upon the prior statute? The
principles of legal construction to be applied to such a case
are well known. While repeals by implication are not favored,
and while it is held that a statute is not repealed by a later one
containing no repealing clause, unless the later statute is positively repugnant to the former, or is a plain substitute for it,
supplying its provisions, it is still true that repeal or no repeal,
substitution or no substitution, is a question of legislative intention, and there are acknowledged rules for ascertaining that
intention.
In Hichell v. Brown (1 El. & El. 267), it was ruled in the
Court of Queen's Bench, that if a later statute again describes
an offence created by a former statute, and affixes a different
punishment to it, varying the procedure, &c., the later operates
by way of substitution, not cumulatively, and the former
statute is repealed. A similar rule was asserted by Baron
Bramwell in Ex parte Baker, 2 H. & N. 219. So in Barry v.
The Croydon Gas Co. (15 0. B. x. s. 568), an act imposing
a penalty of X200 upon the undertaker of any gas-works for
fouling any stream, &c., to be recovered by the person into
whose water the foul substance should be conveyed, was held
to repeal by implication a former act describing the same
offence and imposing the same penalty, to be sued for by any
common informer. The two penalties were held not to be
cumulative. The principle of these rulings has been frequently
recognized by courts in this country.
In Norris v. Crocker et al. (13 How. 429), it was said by

UNITED STATES V. C AFLIN.

[Sup. Ct.

this court, "As a general rule, it is not open to controversy,
that, where a new statute covers the whole subject-matter of
an old one, adds offences, and prescribes different penalties for
those enumerated in the old law, the former is repealed by
implication, as the provisions of both cannot stand together."
That was a case in most points much like the present. The
older statute bad imposed a penalty for certain offences, namely, obstructing a claimant in arresting a fugitive from
labor, rescuing the fugitive after his arrest, or harboring and
concealing him with knowledge that he was a fugitive; and
the statute had enacted that the claimant might recover the
penalty for his own benefit, and also reserved to him a right of
action in damages for the actual injuries he might have sustained, be they more or less. The later statute imposed a
greater penalty, and added imprisonment for the same offences,
gave no right to the claimant to recover the penalty, but gave
him a right to recover by way of damages the sum of $1,000,
for each fugitive lost by reason of the offences. This court
held that the two statutes were in conflict, and consequently
that the earlier was repealed.
It is, however, necessary to the implication of a repeal that
the objects of the two statutes are the same, in the absence of
any repealing clause. If they are not, both statutes will stand,
though they may refer to the same subject. Maxwell on the
Interpretation of Statutes, 153. This consideration had weight
with us when Stockwell v. The United States was decided.
We then regarded the act of 1823 not so much punitive as
remedial. This seemed to us to be evinced by the fact that the
amount recoverable under that act by the United States was
made proportional to the value of the goods wrongfully concealed or bought, and not in the least proportional to the
degree of criminality of the act of receipt, purchase, or concealment. Hence we regarded the claim for double the value
of the goods concealed, received, or bought as only a claim for
indemnity for abstracting goods forfeited for illegal importation.
And we thought the object of the act of 1866 was only to punish
the offence criminally. If this were truly the purpose of the
acts, their objects would not have been the same, and, therefore, the second statute could not be regarded as repealing the

Oct. 1878.]

UNITED STATES V. CLAFLIN.

former. But a renewed and more careful examination of the
two statutes, aided as it has been by the argument of counsel,
has convinced us that Congress, in the act of 1866, had in view
not only punishment of the offence described, but indemnity to
the government for loss sustained in consequence of the criminal conduct of those guilty of the offence. The later act
denounces a forfeiture of the goods concealed, &c., no matter
in whose hands they may be found. If the forfeiture of double
the value of the goods denounced by the act of 1823 was designed to secure indemnity to the government for the wrong
done, the forfeiture of the goods themselves, declared in the
act of 1866, must have been intended for the same purpose,
and the fine and imprisonment were superadded as a vindication of public justice. If this is so, as we now think it is, the
act of 1866 supplied the provisions of the second section of the
act of 1823, and, consequently, would have repealed them had
it contained no repealing clause. But the forty-third section
of the act of 1866 expressly repealed "all other acts and parts
of acts conficting with or supplied by it." If the act of 1823
was not in conffict with the fourth section of the act of 1866, it
was supplied by it, as we now think, and it was, therefore,
repealed.
It follows that no suit can be maintained, by force of the act
of 1823, for any acts done after the enactment of the act of 1866.
The demurrer was, therefore, well sustained.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. -In United States v. Claflin, error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, which was argued at the same
time and by the same counsel as was the preceding case, MR. JUSTICE STMONG,
in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked: The declaration in this case, to which the defendants demurred generally,
contained fourteen counts, the first and each alternate odd count of which rests
upon the second section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1823, entitled "An
Act to amend an act entitled 'An Act further to regulate the entry of merchandise imported into the United States from any adjacent territory."' 3 Stat. 781.
These counts all charge that the defendants, at various times between the fourteenth day of February, 1874, and the seventeenth day of November, 1874, inclusive, received, bought, and concealed goods, wares, and merchandise illegally
imported into the United States, knowing the goods to have been illegally imported, and they assert the right of the United States to recover the double value
of the goods. That such a recovery cannot be had, because the second section of

554

RAILWAY CO. V. SinES.

[Sup.

at.

the act of 1823 was repealed by the act of July 18, 1866, we have ruled in United
States v. Clafli (supra, p. 546). So far as those counts extend, therefore, the
demurrer to the declaration was properly sustained.
The counts 2, 4, 6, and 8 are based upon the fourth section of the act of 1866,
which, as we have seen in the case mentioned, contemplated only a criminal proceeding, and not a civil suit, as this is. Those counts, therefore, have no foundation. The remaining counts, Nos. 10, 12, and 14, are based upon sect. 3082 of the
Revised Statutes, which is but a re-enactment of the act of 1866. It was, therefore,
correct that the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer to the entire declaration.
Judgment affiratd.

RAnWAY COmPANr

v. SAYLES.

1. A party who invents a new machine never used before, and procures letterspatent therefor, acquires a monopoly as against all merely formal variations thereof; but if the advance towards the thing desired is gradual, and
proceeds step by step, so that no one can claim the complete thing, each
inventor is entitled only to his own specific form of device.
2. Double brakes, operating upon the two trucks of a railroad car at the same
time, by a single force, through the medium of connecting rods, had been
publicly used before Thompson and Bachelder invented the Tanner brake.
Only the specific improvement which they made could, therefore, be cov.
ered by the letters-patent for that brake. The latter were not infringed by
the Stevens brake, for which letters-patent No. 8552 were issued Nov. 25,
1851, though it was invented after the Tanner brake, inasmuch as it is
another and different specific form of brake. The parties are entitled to
the specific improvement they respectively invented, provided the later does
not include the earlier.
8. Though the double brakes used before the Tanner brake was invented may
have been much less perfect than it, and may have been superseded by it
and by other improved forms of brake, nevertheless, they were actually
used, and to some good purpose. Their construction and use, though with
limited success, were sufficient to contravene the pretension of Thompson
and Bachelder that they were the pioneers in this department of invention.
4. The original application for a patent made by Thompson and Bachelder was
filed in the Patent Office in June, 1847. Having been rejected, it remained
there unaltered until 1852, when it was considerably amended, and letterspatent No. 9109 were, July 6, 1852, granted thereon to Tanner, as assignee.
Held, that no material alterations introduced by such amendments could
avail as against parties who had introduced other brakes prior thereto.
5. The original application for letters-patent (with its accompanying drawings
and model), filed by an inventor, should possess great weight in showing
what his invention really was, especially where it remains unchanged for
a considerable period, and is afterward amended so as to have a broader
scope. Amendments embracing any material variation from the original

