COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

COOK V. PENNSSYLVANIA.
1. A tax laid b) a State on the amount of sales of goods made by an auctioneer
is a tax on the goods so sold.
2. The statute of Pennsylvania of May 20, 1853, modified by that of April 9
1859, requiring every auctioneer to collect and pay into the State treasury
a tax on his sales, is, when applied to imported goods in the original packages, by him sold for the importer, in cofflict with sects. 8 and 10 of
art. 1 of the Constitution of the United States, and therefore void, as laying
a duty on imports and being a regulation of commerce.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania.
This action, which was brought in the Court of Common Pleas
of Dauphin County, Pennsylvania, was tried by the court upon
the following case, stated in the nature of a special verdict.
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania claims from the defendant, Samuel C. Cook, who, by the governor, was duly appointed
and commissioned an auctioneer in and for the city of Philadelphia, the sum of $757.83, for taxes due at one-half of one
per cent and three-fourths of one per cent, as per his report
furnished to the auditor-general, and settlement made by the
auditor-general and State treasurer, dated Jan. 3, 1871, upon
sales made by him of foreign goods placed in his hands by the
importer, in bulk or original packages, to be sold at auction as
an auctioneer in the original packages as imported, and which
were so sold by him at auction as an auctioneer. The Commonwealth claims the said taxes under the act of assembly
entitled "An Act to incorporate the Commercial Mutual
Insurance Company of Philadelphia, relative to the State
duty on domestic and foreign articles in the counties of Philadelphia and Allegheny," &c., approved the twentieth day of
May, 1853, P. L. 1853, 679; and under the act of assembly
entitled "An Act to modify the existing laws of the Commonwealth, and to provide more effectually for the collection of
the State tax or duty on auction sales in the city of Philadelphia and county of Allegheny," approved April 9, 1859,
P. L. 1859, 435.
The defendant claims that said sales of foreign goods are
exempt from taxation, because said acts of assembly, so far as
they relate to such taxation, are in direct conflict with sects.
ERROR

Oct. 1878.]

COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

8 and 10 of art. 1 of the Constitution of the United States,
and for that and other reasons void; and inasmuch as the
foreign goods so taxed as aforesaid were sold in bulk, as they
were imported by the importer, said defendant, Cook, acted
simply as his salesman.
That as the said goods had never been sold for consumption
or resale by the importer, and had never been divided by him
into smaller quantities by breaking up the casks or packages
in which they were originally imported, the said goods had not
lost their character as imports, and therefore that any such tax
is unconstitutional and ought not to be levied.
That if the court should be of the opinion that the acts of
assembly are constitutional, then judgment should be entered
for the Commonwealth, but if not, then for the defendant,
Cook; costs to follow the judgment, and either party reserving
the right to sue out a writ of error.
The court being of the opinion that the defendant was
properly charged with the tax, and that the laws under which
it was assessed were constitutional, gave judgment in favor of
the Commonwealth. That judgment having been affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Cook sued out this writ
of error.
The statutes of Pennsylvania referred to in the case stated
are set out in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Benjamin HarrisBrewster for the plaintiff in error.
As the goods sold by Cook had not lost their character as
imports, the tax imposed was upon them, and is therefore in
direct repugnance to the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, which declare that "no State shall, without
the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports
or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws;" and that Congress shall have power
"to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian tribes." Brown v. State of
fflaryland, 12 Wheat. 419; The License Cases, 5 How. 504;
Pervear v. The Commonwealth, 5 Wall. 475; Same v. Austin,
13 id. 29; Case of the State Freight Tax, 15 id. 232; Waring v,
The ilMayor, 8 id. 110 ; Peoplev. Waring, 3 Keyes (N. Y.), 374 ;
Pennsylvania Railroad v. Commonwealth, 3 Grant (Pa.), 130;

COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Welton v. Te State of Missouri, 91 U. S. 275 ; ifenderson v.
The Mayor,&c., 92 id. 268; Inman Steamshit Co. v. Tinker,
94 id.238.
Mr. 4yman D. Gilbert, Deputy Attorney-General of Pennsylvania, contra.
The contention is between the Commonwealth and an
auctioneer, as to a graduated tax upon his sales; a liability
to pay which she annexed as a condition to the grant of
authority to pursue his calling.
If it be asserted that the tax is laid upon the importer, and
is paid by him, the auctioneer being merely the collector, the
Commonwealth has the right to collect it from the latter, for
he succeeds to no defence which the former might have made.
Waring v. The A1fayor, 8 Wall. 110.
The demand is made upon Cook not as an importer, but as
an auctioneer, who, as an agent of the Commonwealth, received
the tax in dispute, and holds it as her trustee. If he has not
collected it, his failure to perform his agreement renders him
liable.
Although the tax was not laid directly upon the importer, it
is submitted that, if the contrary were true, the right of the
Commonwealth to collect it is undoubted; because, first, no
one can require the services of her officer, except upon her
terms; second, she appointed Cook an auctioneer, investing
him with certain privileges and subjecting him to certain
responsibilities; and importers who for their own advantage
avail themselves of his services, and of the security which she
demands of him for his fidelity, cannot decline to pay the prescribed price fixed for his services, and for the benefit which
such security affords. As was said by Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall, in Brown v. The State of Maryland (12 Wheat.
437), "Auctioneers are persons licensed by the State, and if
the importer chooses to employ them, he can as little object
to paying for the service, as for any other for which he may
apply to an officer of the State. The right of sale may very
well be annexed to importation, without annexing to it also
the privilege of using the officers licensed by the State to
make sales in a particular way."
Whatever privileges, therefore, importers obtain not from

Oct. 1878.]

COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

the United States, but exclusively from the Commonwealth, among them being that of employing a licensed auctioneer,
are subject to her regulation, and to such taxation as she
imposes. An increased price of foreign merchandise may result from the tax in question; but such a consequence follows
many modes of taxation, and furnishes no reason against their
validity. Nathan v. Louisiana,8 How. 73 ; State Tax on Bailway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284.
The Commonwealth having the right to impose the tax in
question, can determine the amount thereof and the manner in
which it shall be laid. State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts,
supra; Society for Savings v. Ooite, 6 Wall. 594; Provident
Institution v. Massachusetts, id. 611; The Delaware Bailroad
Tax, 18 id. 206.
M .. JUsTIC E MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, of May 20, 1853
(Pamphlet Laws, 683), declares that" The State duty to be paid on sales by auction in the counties
of Philadelphia and Allegheny shall be on all domestic articles
and groceries, one-half of one per cent; on foreign drugs, glass,
earthenware, hides, marble-work, and dye-woods, three-quarters of
one per cent."
By the sixth section of the act of April 9, 1859, the law was
modified, as follows "Said auctioneers shall pay into the treasury of the Commonwealth a tax or duty of one-fourth of one per cent on all sales of
loans or stocks, and shall also pay into the treasury aforesaid a tax
or duty, as required by existing laws, on all other sales to be made
as aforesaid, except on groceries, goods, wares, and merchandise of
American growth or manufacture, real estate, shipping, or livestock; and it shall be the duty of the auctioneer having charge
of such sales to collect and pay over to the State treasurer the said
duty or tax, and give a true and correct account of the same quarterly, under oath or affirmation, in the form now required by law."
Pamphlet Laws, 436.
The effect of this legislation is, that by the first statute a
discrimination of one-fourth of one per cent is made against

COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

S[Slip. Ct.

foreign goods sold at auction; and by the last statute, while all
sales of foreign or imported goods are taxed, those arising from
groceries, goods, wares, and merchandise of American growth
or manufacture are exempt from such tax.
It appears that the law also required these auctioneers to
take out a license, to make report of such sales, and to pay into
the treasury the taxes on these sales.
The defendant refused to pay the tax for which he was
liable under this law, for the sale of goods which had been
imported and which he had sold for the importers in the
original packages. In the suit, in which judgment was rendered against him in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, he
defended himself on the ground that these statutes were void,
because forbidden by sects. 8 and 10 of art. 1 of the Constitution of the United States.
The clauses referred to are those which give to Congress
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and forbid a
State, without the consent of Congress, to levy any imposts or
duties on imports. The case stated shows that the goods sold
by defendant were imported goods, and that they were sold by
him in the packages in which they were originally imported.
It is conceded by the Attorney-General of the State, that if the
statute we have recited is a tax on these imports, it is justly
obnoxious to the objection taken to it.
But it is argued that the authority of the auctioneer to make
any sales is derived from the State, and that the State can,
therefore, impose upon him a tax for the privilege conferred,
and that the mode adopted by the statute of measuring that
tax is within the power of the State. That being a tax on him
for the right or privilege to sell at auction, it is not a tax on
the article sold, but the anount of the sales made by him is
made the measure of the tax on that privilege. In support of
this view, it is said that the importer could himself have made
sale of his goods without subjecting the sale to the tax. The
argument is fallacious, because without an auctioneer's license
he could not have sold at auction even his own goods. If he
had procured, or could have procured, a license, be would then
have been subject by the statute to the tax, for it makes no
exception. By the express language of the statute, the auc-

Oct. 1878.]

COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

tioneer is to collect this tax and pay it into the treasury.
From whom is he to collect it if not from the owner of the
goods? If the tax was intended to be levied on the auctioneer,
he would not have been required first to collect it and then pay
it over. It was, then, a tax on the privilege of selling foreign
goods at auction, for such goods could only be sold at auction
by paying the tax on the amount of the sales.
The question as thus stated has long ago and frequently been
decided by this court.
In Paseenger Cases (7 How. 283), a statute of New York
was the subject of consideration, which required an officer
of the city of New York, called the health commissioner,
to collect from the master of every vessel from a foreign port,
for himself and each cabin passenger on board his vessel,
one dollar and fifty cents, and for each steerage passenger,
mate, sailor, or mariner, one dollar. A statute of the State
of Massachusetts was also considered, which enacted that no
alien passengers (other than certain diseased persons and
paupers, provided for in a previous section) should be permittted to land until the master, owner, consignee, or agent of
such vessel should pay to the regularly appointed boarding officers the sum of two dollars for each passenger so landing. In
both instances, although the master or the owner of the vessel
was made to pay the sum demanded, it was held to be a tax
on the passengers. It was he whose loss it was when paid, and
the burden rested ultimately and solely on him. Mr. Chief Justice Taney says: "It is demanded of the captain, and not from
every separate passenger, for the convenience of collection.
But the burden evidently falls on the passenger, and he, in
fact, pays it, either in the enhanced price of his passage, or
directly to the captain, before he is allowed to embark for the
voyage." Because it was such a tax, the majority of the court
held it to be unconstitutional and void.
In the case of Crandallv. State of Nevada (6 Wall. 35), the
State had passed a law requiring those in charge of all the
stage-coaches and railroads doing business in the State to make
report of every passenger who passed through the State or
went out of it by their conveyances, and to pay a tax of one
dollar for every such passenger. The argument was urged

COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

there, that the tax was laid on the business of the railroad
and stage-coach companies, and the sum of one dollar exacted
for each passenger was only a mode of measuring the business
to be taxed. But the court said, as in Passenger Cases, that
it was a tax which must fall on the passenger, and be paid
by him for the privilege of riding through the State by the
usual vehicles of travel.
In Case of the State Freight Tax (15 id. 232), Mr. Justice
Strong says: "The case presents the question whether the
statute in question- so far as it imposes a tax upon freight
taken up within the State and carried out of it, or taken up
outside the State and delivered within it, or, in different words,
upon all freight other than that taken up and delivered within
the State- is not repugnant to the provision of the Constitution of the United States." It was argued here again that the
tax was one on the business and franchises of the railroad companies which were required to pay it; but the court, reviewing
the authorities, said that the inquiry was upon what did the
burden really rest, and not upon the question from whom the
State exacted payment into its treasury. This language was
abundantly supported by the cases concerning tax on the national banks; namely, Bank of Commcree v. New, York City,
2 Black, 620; Bank Tax Cases, 2 Wall. 200; Sodety for
Savings v. Coite, 6 id. 594; Provident Institution v. M1assachusetts, id. 611.
In Henderson v. The Mayor (92 U. S. 259), where the
owners of vessels from a foreign port were required to give a
bond, as security, that every passenger whom they landed
should not become a burden on the State, or pay for every
such passenger a fixed sum, it was held to be in effect a tax
of that sum on the passenger, however disguised by the alternative of a bond which would never be given. The court said,
that "in whatever language a statute may be framed, its purpose must be determined by its natural and reasonable effect;
and if it is apparent that the object of this statute, as judged
by that criterion, is to compel the owners of vessels to pay a
sum of money for every passenger brought by them from a
foreign shore and landed at the port of New York, it is as
much a tax on passengers, if collected from them, or a tax on

Oct. 1878.]

COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

the vessel or owner for the exercise of the right of landing
their passengers in that city, as was the statute held void in
the Passenger Cases."
To the same effect, and probably more directly in point, is
the case of Welton v. State of Missouri (91 id. 275), decided
the same term. In that case, pedlers were required, under a
evere penalty, to take out a license; and those only were held
to be pedlers who dealt in goods, wares, and merchandise
which were not of the growth, produce, or manufacture of the
State. The court, after referring to the case of Brown v. Iaryrand, relied on by defendant here, adds: "So, in like manner,
Lhe license tax exacted by the State of Missouri from dealers in
goods which are not the product or manufacture of the State,
before they can be sold from place to place within the State,
must be regarded as a tax upon such goods themselves; and
bhe question presented is, whether legislation, thus discriminating against the products of other States in the conditions of
bheir sale by a certain class of dealers, is valid under the Con3titution of the United States." And it was decided that it was
not. See also Waring v. The Arayor, 8 Wall. 110.
The tax on sales made by an auctioneer is a tax on the goods
3old, within the terms of this last decision, and, indeed, within
ill the cases cited; and when applied to foreign goods sold in
;he original packages of the importer, before they have become
ncorporated into the general property of the country, the law
nposing such tax is void as laying a duty on imports.
In Woodruff v. .Parham(8 Wall. 123) and Hfinson v. Lott (id.
[48), it was held that a tax laid by a law of the State in such
manner as to discriminate unfavorably against goods which
.vere the product or manufacture of another State, was a reguation of commerce between the States, forbidden by the Con;titution of the United States. The doctrine is reasserted in
;he case of Welton v. State of 11issouri, supra. The Congress
)f the United States is granted the power to regulate comnerce with foreign nations in precisely the same language as it
s that among the States. If a tax assessed by a State injurimsly discriminating against the products of a State of the
union is forbidden by the Constitution, a similar tax against
,oods imported from a foreign State is equally forbidden.

COOK V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

A careful reader of the history of the times which immediately preceded the assembling of the convention that framed the
American Constitution cannot fail to discover that the need of
some equitable and just regulation of commerce was among the
most influential causes which led to its meeting. States having
fine harbors imposed unlimited tax on all goods reaching the
Continent through their ports. The ports of Boston and New
York were far behind Newport, in the State of Rhode Island,
in the value of their'imports; and that small State was paying
all the expenses of her government by the duties levied on the
goods landed at her principal port. And so reluctant was she
to give up this advantage, that she refused for nearly three years
after the other twelve original States had ratified the Constitution, to give it her assent.
In granting to Congress the right to regulate commerce -with
foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes, and in forbidding the States without the consent
of that body to levy any tax on imports, the framers of the
Constitution believed that they had sufficiently guarded against
the dangers of any taxation by the States which would interfere
with the freest interchange of commodities among the people of
the different States, and by the people of the States with citizens and subjects of foreign governments.
The numerous cases in which this court has been called on to
declare void statutes of the States which in various ways have
sought to violate this salutary restriction, show the necessity
and value of the constitutional provision. If certain States
could exercise the unlimited power of taxing all the merchandise which passes from the port of New York through those
States to the consumers in the great West, or could tax -as
has been done until recently- every person who sought the
seaboard through the railroads within their jurisdiction, the
Constitution would have failed to effect one of the most important purposes for which it was adopted.
A striking instance of the evil and its cure is to be seen in
the recent history of the States now composing the German
Empire. A few years ago they were independent States, which,
though lying contiguous, speaking a common language, and
belonging to a common race, were yet without a common
government.

Oct. 1878.]

O .OSMERV. WALLACE.

The number and variety of their systems of taxation and
lines of territorial division necessitating customs officials at
every step the traveller took or merchandise was transported,
became so intolerable, that a commercial, though not a political union was organized, called the German Zollverein. The
great value of this became so apparent, and the community of
interest so strongly felt in regard to commerce and traffic, that
the first appropriate occasion was used by these numerous principalities to organize the common political government now
known as the German Empire.
While there is, perhaps, no special obligation on this court
to defend the wisdom of the Constitution of the United States,
there is the duty to ascertain the purpose of its provisions, and
to give them full effect when called on by a proper case to
a0 so.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania will be
reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings, in
onformity with this opinion; and it is

So ordered.

Hosm:ER v. WALLACE.
L.Pending a proceeding in a tribunal of the United States, for the confirmation of a claim to lands in California, under a Mexican grant, no portion
of them embraced within the boundaries designated in the grant is open
to settlement, under the pre-emption laws, although, upon the final survey of the claim when confirmed, there may be a surplus within those
boundaries.
I. Until a segregation of the quantity granted is made by an approved official
survey, third parties cannot interfere with the grantee's possession of the
lands, and limit it to any particular place within those boundaries.
. Between March 1, 1856, and May 80, 1862, unsurveyed public lands in California were not subject to settlement under the pre-emption laws. Since
the latter date, they, as well as surveyed lands, have been so subject.
• The right of pre-emption only inures in favor of a claimant when he has performed the conditions of actual settlement, inhabitation, and improvement.
As he cannot perform them when the land is occupied by another, his right
of pre-emption does not extend to it.
* The object of the seventh section of the act of July 23, 1866 (14 Stat. 218),
"to quiet land-titles in California," was to withdraw from the general operation of the pre-emption laws lands continuously possessed and improved

