Oct. 1877.]

HOTEL CO. v. WADE.

HOTEL COMPANY V. WADE.
1. Bonds issued by a corporation in Nebraska, secured by a mortgage on its lands
there situate, were held by citizens of another State, who, on default of the
corporation to pay the interest represented by the coupons, applied to the
trustee named to take possession of the lands, pursuant to the mortgage, and
bring a foreclosure suit. On his refusal, they filed their bill Sept. 24, 1873,
in the Circuit Court, against him, the corporation, and the other bond and
coupon holders, all citizens of Nebraska, who refused to join in bringing
suit. Held, that the complainants had the right to file their bill, and that
the court below bad jurisdiction, although some of the respondents were
joined as such solely on the ground that they had refused to unite with the
complainants in the prosecution of a suit to compel the trustee to foreclose
the mortgage.
2. Where stockholders sanctioned a contract, under which moneys were loaned
to a corporation by its directors, and its bonds therefor, secured by mortgage, given, and the moneys have been properly applied, the corporation is
estopped from setting up that the bonds and mortgage are void by reason of
the trust relations which the directors sustained to it.
3. In order to sustain the defence of usury when a contract is, on its face, for
legal interest only, there must be proof that there was some corrupt agreement, device, or shift to cover usury, and that it was in full contemplation
of the parties.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Nebraska.
This is a bill filed Sept. 24, 1873, by ,eptha H. Wade, a
citizen of Ohio, and James W. Bosler, a citizen of Pennsylvania, against the Omaha Hotel Company, a corporation of
Nebraska, Milton Rogers, Thoma's Wardell, Edward Creighton,
Augustus Kountze, Herman Kountze, Andrew J. Poppleton,
Henry W. Yates, Edward D. Pratt, Charles W. Hamilton, and
others, citizens of that State, to foreclose a mortgage of certain
lands in Omaha, and the hotel and other buildings then or
thereafter to be erected thereon, executed by that company
Sept. 1, 1871, to said Rogers, as trustee, to secure one hundred coupon bonds for $1,000 each, issued by it, and payable in five years, with interest at twelve per cent per annum,
payable September 1 and March 1 in each year. It was, among
other things, covenanted that the company should keep the
hotel insured for not less than $100,000, by good and responsible companies, and assign the policy for the benefit of the bond-

HOTEL CO. v. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

holders; that it should pay all taxes and assessments, general
or special, on the premises; and that the sum raised by the
mortgage should, under the management, direction, and control
of the company, be faithfully and honestly applied to the completion of the hotel. The condition was, that if the company
"shall well and truly pay the interest on said bonds, as it becomes due, and the principal at maturity, and perform each
and every other covenant and agreement herein, then this con
veyance shall be void; otherwise, to remain in full force and
effect. And in case of a failure to pay the interest according
to the tenor and effect of said bonds, or to perform any other
covenant or agreement herein contained, then, in that case, not
only the interest but the principal of said bonds shall become
due and payable; and the said party of the second part or his
successors shall have the right to take immediate possession of
said property, foreclose this mortgage, and sell said mortgaged
premises." . . .
The bill alleges that the bonds were, immediately upon their
execution, delivered to Creighton and other parties, who advanced the $100,000, which was duly expended by the company
as required by the mortgage; and that on July 25, 1873, Wade,
in the usual course of business, and without knowledge of any
defences thereto, purchased in good faith from Creighton thirtyfive of the bonds, and that on the 23d of that month, Bosler,
in like manner, purchased from Augustus Kountze forty of
them, both purchases having been made without any knowledge, suspicion, or reason to suspect that any overdue coupons
theretofore attached to said bonds had not been paid, and that
Wardell holds the remaining twenty-five bonds. It also alleges
that, save that due March 1, 1872, no interest has been paid on
the bonds, but that the past-due coupons are held by Creighton,
Augustus Kountze, Herman Kountze, and Yates, who claim to
be interested in the security of the mortgage; that the coupons
held by the complainants, and due Sept. 1, 1873, were duly
presented by them for payment, and payment having been
refused, they were protested, and notice thereof given to the
company; that default was made in the payment of State and
county taxes due on the property in December, 1872, on
which account it was sold, Sept. 8, 1873, Augustus Kountze

Oct. 1877.]

HOTEL CO. v. WADE.

becoming the purchaser, and that it was again, on the 18th
of that month, sold for the non-payment of taxes to the
city of Omaha; that since Sept. 5, 1873, the premises have
been insured but for $40,000; and that the company has,
by the foregoing and other breaches of its covenants, caused
the principal as well as the interest of the bonds to become
due and payable. It further alleges that the complainants
applied to the said trustee to take possession of the premises, and bring an action to foreclose the mortgage, offering
to indemnify and save him harmless from all costs and expenses, but that he refused so to do; and that they applied
to Wardell, Creighton, Poppleton, Augustus Kountze, Herman Kountze, and Yates to join in such a suit, but that they
and each of them declined. The bill prays for a receiver,
an account, a sale of the mortgaged premises, and general
relief.
Separate answers were filed by Pratt and Hamilton, by Caldwell and others, and by the Hotel Company. The answer of
the latter, after insisting that the bill was defective for want
of proper parties, and that therefore the court had no jurisdiction of the suit, sets up certain defences, which are stated in the
opinion of the court.
There was a decree for the complainants; whereupon the
Hotel Company, and certain other of the respondents, brought
the case here.
Mr. Clinton Briggs for the appellants.
In order to sustain the jurisdiction of the court below, each
and all of the bond and coupon holders were indispensable parties complainant. The practice of courts of general
jurisdiction, where those who refuse to join as complainants
may be impleaded as defendants, cannot obtain in the Circuit
Court of the United States, where jurisdiction depends upon
the citizenship of the parties. There the controversy must be
between citizens of different States, not between those of the
same State. The only difficulty is, to determine who are and
who are not indispensable parties. Russell v. Clark's Executors,
7 Cranch, 69; Shields et al. v. Barrow, 17 How. 130; Coal

Company v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172; Knapp v. Railroad
Company, 20 id. 117 ; Case of the Sewing-Machine Companies,

HOTEL Co. v. WADE.

[Sup. Or.

18 id. 553; Williams et al. v. Bankhead, 19 id. 563; Ober
v. Gallagher, 93 U. S. 199.
The act of March 3, 1875, enlarging the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, does not change the rule that each plaintiff
must be competent to sue, and each defendant liable to be
sued.
In a matter so vital as that of jurisdiction, the court will
consider who are the real actors.
'.cNuttv. Bland et al.,
2 How. 9; Huff et al. v. Hutchinson, 14 id. 586.
The bonds and mortgage are invalid, by reason of the trust
relation which the lenders of the money, who were a majority
of the board of directors of the company, sustained to the
stockholders. lichoud et al. v. Girod et al., 4 How: 503;
Koehler v. Black River FallsIron Co., 2 Black, 715; Drury v.
Cross, 7 Wall. 299; Jackson v. Ludeling, 21 id. 616; Stephen
v. Beall, 22 id. 329; Twin-Lick Oil Co. v. Marbury, 91 U. S.
587; Luxemburg Railroad Co. v. llacquay, 25 Beav. 586;
Cumberland Coal Co. v. Sherman, 30 Barb. (N. Y.) 553; Railroad Company v. Poor,59 Me. 277; San -Diego v. Railroad
Company, 44 Cal. 106; Goodwin v. Railroad J Canal Company, 18 Ohio St. 182.
The interest contracted for and received by the lenders of
the money was usurious. Bank of the United States v. Owens
et al., 2 Pet. 527; Brown v. Vanderburgh, 43 N. Y. 195; Creig
v. Bliss, 26 Pa. 271; Peidler v. -Darrin,50 N. Y. 437.
Mr. J: 31. Woolworth, contra.
MR. JUSTIOE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Jurisdiction of the circuit courts, concurrent with the courts
of the several States, under the existing act of Congress, is extended, where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value
of $500, to all suits at common law or in equity in which there
shall be a controversy between citizens of different States,
without any exception or qualification, employing the very
words contained in the Constitution. 18 Stat. 470; Const.,
art. 3, sect. 2.
Motives of a public character induced certain residents of
the city of Omaha to become organized as a corporation, to
facilitate their efforts to erect a hotel at that place. Expendi-

Oct. 1877.]

HOTEL Co. V. WADE.

tures to a large amount were incurred by the Hotel Company in
purchasing the lot and in erecting and enclosing the building;
and, being unable to complete the same without pecuniary aid
from others, they decided to mortgage the premises to raise the
necessary funds for the purpose.
Arrangements were first attempted, and partly perfected, to
make a loan of $75,000; but it was soon after determined that
it would require $25,000 more to accomplish the object. Negotiations of various kinds ensued, which resulted in a -vote of
the stockholders in favor of the proposition ultimately carried
into effect, to borrow $100,000 to complete the hotel.
Action of a corresponding character was had by the board
of directors; and they voted to accept the proposition made to
the stockholders, and directed the president and secretary of
the company to execute, acknowledge, and deliver to Milton
Rogers, trustee, a mortgage or trust deed of the hotel lot and
building, as more fully set forth in the record.
Bonds of the company executed to bearer, with interest
coupons attached, to the number of one hundred, each for the
sum of $1,000, with interest at the rate of twelve per cent,
payable semi-annually, were issued, the principal payable in
five years, with the privilege to the company of paying the
same two years earlier. Payment of the bonds, principal and
interest, was secured by the mortgage or trust deed executed
by the president and secretary of the company, in pursuance
of the aforesaid vote of the board of directors to carry into
effect the proposition previously adopted by the stockholders at
their meeting duly notified and held for the purpose.
Covenants alleged to have been broken are the following:
1. That the company shall keep the hotel building insured in
good and responsible companies, to be agreed between the parties, in the sum of not less than $100,000, and that the company
shall assign the policies to the trustee, for the benefit of the
holders of the bonds. 2. That the company shall pay all taxes
and assessments upon the mortgaged premises. 3. That the
sum raised by the mortgage shall be applied to the construction
and completion of the hotel building. 4. That the company
shall well and truly pay the interest as it becomes due, and the
principal at maturity; and the instrument provides that in case
VOe.Vi.

2

HOTEL CO. v. WADE.

[Sup. Ot.

of failure to pay the interest or to perform any other of the
covenants or agreements therein contained, then in that case
not only the interest but the principal shall become due and
payable, and the trustee shall have the right to take immediate
possession of the property, foreclose the mortgage, and sell the
mortgaged premises.
Specific breaches of the covenants of the instrument are
alleged, and failures, neglects, and refusals of the company to
perform the same, in consequence of which the complainants
aver and charge that the principal as well as the interest of the
mortgage debt has become due, and that they are entitled to a
decree foreclosing the mortgage.
Service was made, when most of the respondents entered an
appearance, and two of the respondents, to wit, E. D. Pratt
and Charles W. Hamilton, filed an answer. Certain interlocutory proceedings followed, which it is not material to notice in
this investigation. Six other respondents subsequently appeared and filed an answer, and at a still later period the Hotel
Company appeared and filed their answer. Special reference
need only be made to the answer of the Hotel Company, as
the other two answers relate chiefly to the application for a
receiver.
Four principal defences were set up by the company: 1. That
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of the case. 2. That the
bonds and mortgage were void because of the trust relation
which the lenders of the money sustained to the stockholders.
8. Because the lenders of the money contracted for and received
usurious interest. 4. That the complainants were not bona fide
holders of the bonds, and that the bonds do not equitably bind
the Hotel Company.
Due process was served, and it is conceded that the respondents who did not answer suffered the bill of complaint to
be taken as confessed. Without unnecessary delay, the complainants filed the general replication, and proofs were taken on
both sides. Hearing was bad upon bill, answer, replication,
and proofs; and the Circuit Court entered a decree in favor of
the complainants, as fully set forth in the record, the details of
which are not material to the questions to be decided in this
court.

Oct. 1877.]

HOTEL CO. v. WADE.

Prompt appeal was taken by the respondents; and since the
cause was entered here they have filed as an assignment of
errors the rulings of the Circuit Court in overruling the four
defences set up in the answer of the Hotel Company, the first
being that the Circuit Court bad not jurisdiction of the case,
by which is meant that proper parties are not made in the bill
of complaint to enable the Circuit Court to decree the relief for
which the complainants pray.
Want of proper parties is the true nature of the alleged
error, the principal defects specified being the following: 1.
That the suit is in the name of certain bondholders, and not in
the name of the trustee designated in the mortgage. 2. That
the other bondholders are not joined as complainants in the
suit.
Application was made to the trustee by the complainants to
take possession of the mortgaged premises, and to bring an action in proper form for the foreclosure of the deed of trust and
for the sale of the premises; and they allege that he refused to
comply with their request, notwithstanding that they offered to
indemnify him and save him harmless.
Sufficient appears to show, beyond controversy, that the
complainants had a right to have suit for a foreclosure in the
name of the trustee; and having applied to him for that purpose, and he having refused to perform his duty, the complainants, with the other parties interested in the security, might
properly become the actors in such a suit against the mortgagor,
impleading the trustee also as a respondent. Resident parties
interested to foreclose the mortgage or trust deed also refused
to join in the suit with the complainants, and they were joined
as respondents with the Hotel Company and the recusant
trustee.
Circuit courts, it is admitted, have jurisdiction, under the
judiciary act, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in
equity, where the amount in dispute is sufficient, and the suit
is between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and a
citizon of another State. 1 Stat. 78. Words and phrases of
a much wider signification are used in the recent act of Congress
defining the jurisdiction of the circuit courts, which provides
that those courts shall have original cognizance, concurrent

HOTEL Co. v. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity, where the matter in dispute
exceeds the sum or value of $500, and in which there shall be
a controversy between citizens of different States. When the
decree in this case was entered, the latter provision was in
operation, but the suit was commenced before the act which
contains it was passed. 18 id. 470.
Tested by either provision, the court is of the opinion that
the objections to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court cannot
be sustained, as the respondents are citizens of the State where
the suit is brought, and the complainants are citizens of other
States; nor does it make any difference that some of the
respondents were joined as such because they refused to unite
with the complainants in the prosecution of the suit. Equity
practice in such cases is more flexible than the rules of pleading
at common law, and often enables a complainant in equity to
maintain the jurisdiction of the court in a case where a plaintiff
in an action at law would find it to be difficult to do so, and
perhaps impossible.
Argument to show that the case made in the record shows
that the holders of the overdue and unpaid securities were entitled to sue for the foreclosure of the mortgage or trust deed
is unnecessary, as the pleadings and proofs are full and decisive to that effect; and if so, then it is clear that the complainants, under the circumstances of this case, might select
the Circuit Court as the forum for the adjudication of their
rights.
Holders of such securities otherwise entitled to sue in the
Circuit Court to foreclose the mortgage or trust deed are not
compelled to join as respondents other holders of similar securities, if resident in other States, even if they refuse to unite
as complainants, as the effect would be to oust the jurisdiction
of the court. Cases of the kind frequently arise; and the rule
is that such a party, if he refuses to unite with the complainant, may be omitted as a respondent, unless it appears that his
rights would be prejudicially affected by the decree. But it is
suggested that the proper parties for a decree are not before
the court, as the bill of complaint shows that there are other
holders of the securities besides the complainants.

Oct. 1877.]

HOTEL CO. V. WADE.

It is true, beyond doubt, that all persons materially interested
in the fund to be distributed should be made parties to the
litigation; but this rule, like all general rules, will yield whenever it becomes necessary that it should be modified in order
to accomplish the ends of justice. Authorities everywhere
agree that exceptions exist to the general rule; and this court
decided that the general rule will yield if the court is able
to proceed to a decree and do justice to the parties before
the court, without injury to others not made parties, who are
equally interested in the litigation. Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall.
425.
Examples of the kind are put by Judge Story, in his work
on Equity Pleading. Speaking of a bill brought by one of
several residuary legatees for a final settlement and distribution of the estate of a testator or intestate, he says, all the
residuary legatees or distributees ought in general to be made
parties; but he admits that, if some are out of the jurisdiction
of the court and cannot conveniently be joined, the court will
dispense with them, and proceed to decree the shares of those
before the court, the rule being that the decree is conclusive
only as to those who are parties to the litigation. Story, Eq.
Pl., sect. 89; West v. Randall, 2 Mas. 193; Wood v. Dummer,

3 id. 808.
Parties who are not named may intervene and make themselves actual parties, so long as the proceedings are in fieri
and are not definitely closed by the course and practice of the
court. Campbell and Others v. The RailroadCompany, 1 Woods,
369.
Suppose that is so, then it is insisted that the bonds and
mortgage are invalid because the lenders of the money sustained a trust relation to the stockholders.
Voluminous as the proofs are, it is scarcely possible to enter
into the details of the evidence without extending the opinion
to an unreasonable length, nor is it necessary, as we are all of
the opinion that the finding of the circuit judge in respect to
the theory of fact involved in the present proposition is correct.
His finding is that the bonds and mortgage are not void upon
the ground that the lenders of the money were also the directors of the company; that the terms of the contract were sane-

HOTEL Co. v. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

tioned by the stockholders; and that the money loaned was
needed to complete the building, and that it was applied to
effect the purpose for which it was borrowed.
Preliminary to any action in the matter, the proposition for
the loan was submitted to the stockholders, and the record
shows that it was adopted by a stock vote. Stockholders and
directors knew what amount was to be borrowed, and all the
terms and conditions of the contract, and that bonds payable
to bearer were to be issued for the loan, and that the bonds
were to be secured by a mortgage or trust deed of the hotel
property. All knew that a loan was indispensable to the completion of the building, and all were anxious that it should be
effected without further delay.
Differences of opinion existed among the stockholders as to
the best way of raising the money, and prior discussions had
not tended to quiet the dissensions, but the stockholders at the
meeting referred to decided to adopt the proposition which was
carried into effect. Beyond doubt, some of the conditions of
the proposition were somewhat peculiar, but the proofs show
that it was openly submitted to the stockholders, and that they
adopted it by a majority of their votes; that the bonds were
subsequently issued, and that they were voluntarily secured by
the mortgage or trust deed set forth in the record.
Taken as a whole, the proofs satisfy the court that the money
was advanced in good faith, and that the bonds were duly executed and delivered; nor is the legality of the transaction
affected by the fact that others of the directors besides the
party who submitted the proposition took certain proportions
of the bonds and furnished corresponding proportions of the
money. It was the company or their agents that prescribed
the form of the bonds, and, having issued the same in the form
of negotiable securities, it must have been expected that they
would be negotiated in the market. Enough appears, also, to
warrant the conclusion that the stockholders were more interested to raise the money than to ascertain who would become
the holders of the bonds.
Examined in the light of the circumstances attending the
transaction, as the case should be, the court is of the opinion
that the evidence fails to support the proposition that the bonds

Oct. 1877.]

HOTEL CO. v.

WADE.

and mortgage are invalid because the directors became the
holders of the bonds and advanced the money. Transactions
of the kind have often occurred; and it has never been held
that the arrangement was invalid, where it appeared that the
stockholders were properly consulted, and sanctioned what was
done, either by their votes or silence. Stark &"Wales v. Coffin,
105 Mass. 828; Credit Association v. Coleman, Law Rep. 5 Ch.
568; Troup's Case, 29 Beav. 353; Hoare's Case, 80 id. 225;
Smith v. Lansing, 22 N. Y. 520; Busby v. Finn, 1 Ohio St.
409.
Most of the directors who took the bonds and advanced the
money were owners of stock in the bank where the money
when paid to the use of the company was deposited. Interest
not having been paid on the deposits, it is insisted by the respondent company that the transaction was usurious; but the
court is not able to sustain the proposition, as there is no evidence that any agreement was ever made that the money should
be deposited in that bank. Usury, certainly, is not to be favored;
but the rule is well settled, that, when the contract on its face
is for legal interest only, then it must be proved that there was
some corrupt agreement, device, or shift to cover usury, and
that it was in full contemplation of the parties. Bank of the
United States v. Waggener, 9 Pet. 878.
Nor is that rule at all inconsistent with what was previously
decided by the court. Profit made or loss imposed on the necessities of the borrower, whatever form, shape, or disguise it
may assume, where the treaty is for a loan and the capital is to
be returned at all events, has always been adjudged to be so
much profit taken upon the loan, and to be a violation of those
laws which limit the lender to a specified rate of interest.
Bank of the United States v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527; Dowdall v.
Lenox, 2 Edw. (N. Y.) Ch. 267.
Much depends upon the intent of the parties in the transaction. Consequently, where a certificate of deposit was given,
payable at a future day, it was held not to be usury, it appearing that it was given at the request of the depositor, and for
his accommodation, without any intent to secure usury. Knox
v. Goodwin, 25 Wend. (N. Y.) 643.
Decided cases also establish the rule that the withholding a

HOTEL Co. V. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

part of a loan for a time in violation of the agreement of the
parties does not constitute usury, as the retention of the money
was no part of the contract or loan. Adm'r of Auble v. Trimmer,
17 N. J. Eq. 242; Executors of ifowell v. Auten, et al., 1 Green
(N. J.) Eq. 44.
So where checks were drawn before the discount was made
and deposited, and the bank treated the note as discounted at
the date of the checks, the court held that it was not usury, as
the circumstances negatived any unlawful intent. Walker v.
Bank of Washington, 3 How. 62.
When the bonds were converted into money, the proceeds
were deposited in the aforesaid bank, which, no doubt, resulted
in an incidental advantage to the directors owning portions of
the capital stock; but that matter was adjusted in the decree to
the satisfaction of the court, and may be dismissed without
further comment. Some delay ensued after the bonds were
issued before the money was deposited; but nothing of the
kind was contemplated when the- agreement was made, nor
did it take place as a means of increasing the rate of interest.
Other defences failing, the suggestion is that the complainants are not bona fide holders of the securities for value; but
the suggestion is unsupported by proof, and, of course, cannot
prevail, the burden of proof being upon the respondent company. Goodman v. Simonds, 20 How. 843; Collins v. Gilbert,
94 U. S. 753.
Suffice it to say, there is no error in the record.
-Decree affirmed.

