Oct. 1878.]

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

1864, the title could not attach, as it had already passed from
the government.
The rights of the contesting corporations to the disputed
tracts are determined by the dates of their respective grants,
and not by the dates of the location of the routes of their respective roads, although in this case the location of the route
of the plaintiff's road was earlier than that of the defendant's
road. This consideration disposes of the case, and requires
the affirmance of the decree of the Supreme Court of Kansas,
without reference to the reservations contained in the grant to
the defendant.
Decree afflirmed.

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.
1. Where, by the application of the invention or discovery for which letterspatent have been granted by the United States, tangible property comes
into existence, its use is, to the same extent as that of any other species of
property, subject, within the several States, to the control which they may
respectively impose in the legitimate exercise of their powers ovdr their
purely domestic affairs, whether of internal commerce or of police.
2. A party to whom such letters-patent were, in the usual form, issued for "an
improved burning oil," whereof he claimed to be the inventor, was convicted in Kentucky for there selling that oil. It had been condemned by
the State inspector as "unsafe for illuminating purposes," under a statute
requiring such inspection, and imposing a penalty for selling or offering to
sell within the State oils or fluids, the product of coal, petroleum, or other
bituminous substances, which can be used for such purposes, and which
have been so condemned. It was admitted on the trial that the oil could
not, by any chemical combination described in the specification annexed to
the letters-patent, be made to conform to the standard prescribed by that
statute. Held, that the enforcement of the statute interfered with no right
conferred by the letters-patent.

ERROR to the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mlr. Matt. 1. Carpenterfor the plaintiff in error.
M1r. Albert Pike, contra.
MR. STUSTI E HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Whether the final judgment of the Court of Appeals of

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

S[Sup. Ct.

Kentucky denies to plaintiff in error any right secured to her
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, is the sole
question presented in this case for our determination.
That court affirmed the judgment of an inferior State court
in which, upon indictment and trial, a fine of $250 was imposed
upon plaintiff in error for a violation of certain provisions of a
Kentucky statute, approved Feb. 21, 1874, regulating the inspection and gauging of oils and fluids, the product of coal,
petroleum, or other bituminous substances. The statute provides that such oils and fluids, by whatever name called and
wherever manufactured, which may or can be used for illuminating purposes, shall be inspected by an authorized State
officer, before being used, sold, or offered for sale. Such as
ignite or permanently burn at a temperature of 130' Fahrenheit and upwards are recognized by the statute as standard
oils, while those which ignite or permanently burn at a less
temperature are condemned as unsafe for illuminating purposes. Inspectors are required to brand casks and barrels
with the words "standard oil," or with the words "unsafe
for illuminating purposes," as inspection may show to be
proper. The statute imposes a penalty upon all who sell or
offer for sale, within the State, such oils and fluids as have
been condemned, the casks or barrels containing which
have been branded with the words indicating such condemnation.
The specific offence charged in the indictment was that the
plaintiff in error had sold, within the State, to one Davis an
oil known as the Aurora oil, the casks containing which had
been previously branded by an authorized inspector with the
words "unsafe for illuminating purposes." That particular oil
is the same for which, in 1867, letters-patent were granted to
Henry C. Dewitt, of whom the plaintiff in error is the assignee,
by assignment duly recorded as required by the laws of the
United States. Upon the trial of the case it was agreed that
the Aurora oil could not, by any chemical combination described in the patent, be made to conform to the standard or
test required by the Kentucky statute as a prerequisite to the
right, within that State, to sell, or to offer for sale, illuminating
oils of the kind designated.

Oct. 1878.]

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

503

The plaintiff in error, as assignee of the patentee, in assert.
ig the right to sell the Aurora oil in any part of the United
States, claims that no State could, consistently with the
Federal Constitution and the laws of Congress, prevent or obstruct the exercise of that right, either by express words of
prohibition, or by regulations which prescribed tests to which
the patented article could not be made to conform.
The Couit of Appeals of Kentucky held this construction of
the Constitution and the laws of the United States to be inadmissible, and in that opinion we concur.
Congress is given power to promote the progress of science
and the useful arts. To that end it may, by all necessary and
proper laws, secure to inventors, for limited times, the exclusive right to their inventions. That power has been exerted
in the various statutes prescribing the terms and conditions
upon which letters-patent may be obtained. It is true that
letters-patent, pursuing the words of the statute, do, in terms,
grant to the inventor, his heirs and assigns, the exclusive right
to make, use, and vend to others his invention or discovery,
throughout the United States and the Territories thereof. But,
obviously, this right is not granted or secured, without reference to the general powers which the several States of the
Union unquestionably possess over their purely domestic affairs,
whether of internal commerce or of police. "In the American
constitutional system," says Mr. Cooley, "the power to establish the ordinary regulations of police has been left with the
individual States, and cannot be assumed by the national government." Cooley, Const. Lim. 574. While it is confessedly
difficult to mark the precise boundaries of that power, or to
indicate, by any general rule, the exact limitations which the
States must observe in its exercise, the existence of such a
power in the States has been uniformly recognized in this
court. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; License Cases, 5 How.
504; Gilman v. _Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713 ; .Henderson et al. v.
-41ayor of the City of New York et al., 92 U. S. 259; Railroad
Company v. Husen, 95 id. 465; Beer Company v. Massaehusetts,
supra,p. 25. It is embraced in what Mr. Chief Justice Marshall,
in Gibbons v. Ogden, calls that "immense mass of legislation"
which can be most advantageously exercised by the States, and

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

over which the national authorities cannot assume supervision
or control. "If the power only extends to a just regulation of
rights, with a view to the due protection and enjoyment of all,
and does not deprive any one of that which is justly and properly his own, it is obvious that its possession by the State, and
its exercise for the regulation of the property and actions of its
citizens, cannot well constitute an invasion of national jurisdiction or afford a basis for an appeal to the protection of the
national authorities." Cooley, Const. Lim. 574. By the settled doctrines of this court the police power extends, at least,
to the protection of the lives, the health, and the property of
the community against the injurious exercise by any citizen of
his own rights. State legislation, strictly and legitimately for
police purposes, does not, in the sense of the Constitution,
necessarily intrench upon any authority which has been confided, expressly or by implication, to the national government.
The Kentucky statute under examination manifestly belongs
to that class of legislation. It is, in the best sense, a mere police regulation, deemed essential for the protection of the lives
and property of citizens. It expresses in the most solemn form
the deliberate judgment of the State that burning fluids which
ignite or permanently burn at less than a prescribed temperature are unsafe for illuminating purposes. Whether the policy
thus pursued by the State is wise or unwise, it is not the province of the national authorities to determine. That belongs to
each State, under its own sense of duty, and in view of the
provisions of its own Constitution. Its action, in those respects,
is beyond the corrective power of this court. That the statute
of 1874 is a police regulation within the meaning of the authorities is clear from our decision in United States v. -Dewitt,
9 Wall. 41. By the internal revenue act of March 2, 1867, a
penalty was imposed upon any person who should mix for sale
naphtha and illuminating oils, or who should knowingly sell
or keep for sale, or offer for sale, such mixture, or who, should
sell or offer for sale oil made from petroleum for illuminating purposes, inflammable at less temperature or fire-test than
1100 Fahrenheit. We held that to be simply a police regulation, relating exclusively to the internal trade of the States;
that, although emanating from Congress, it could have by its

Oct. 1878.]

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

own force no constitutional operation within State limits, and
was without effect, except where the legislative authority of
Congress excluded, territorially, all State legislation, as, for
example, in the District of Columbia.
The Kentucky statute being, then, an ordinary police regulation foi the governnient of those engaged in the internal commerce of that State, the only remaining question is, whether,
under the operation of the Federal Constitution and the laws
of Congress, it is without effect in cases where the oil, although
condemned by the State as unsafe for illuminating purposes,
has been made and prepared for sale in accordance with a discovery for which letter-patents had been granted. We are of
opinion that the right conferred upon the patentee and his
assigns to use and vend the corporeal thing or article, brought
into existence by the application of the patented discovery,
must be exercised in subordination to the police regulations
which the State established by the statute of 1874. It is not
to be supposed that Congress intended to authorize or regulate
the sale, within a State, of tangible personal property which
that State declares to be unfit and unsafe for use, and by statute has prohibited from being sold or offered for sale within
her limits. It was held by Chief Justice Shaw to be a settled
principle, "growing out of the nature of well-ordered society,
that every holder of property, however absolute and unqualified
may be his title, holds it under the implied liability that his
use of it shall not be injurious to the equal enjoyment of others
having an equal right to the enjoyment of their property, nor
injurious to the rights of the community."
Commonwealth v.
Aler, 7 Cush. (Mass.) 53. In recognition of this fundamental
principle, we have frequently decided that the police power of
the States was not surrendered when the Constitution conferred
upon Congress the general power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations and between the several States. Hence the
States may, by police regulations, protect their people against
the introduction within their respective limits of infected merchandise. "A bale of goods upon which the duties have or
have not been paid, laden with infection, may be seized under
health laws, and if it cannot be purged of its poison, may be
committed to the flames."
Gilman v. Philadelphia, supra.

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

So may the States, by like regulations, exclude from tneir midst
not only convicts, paupers, idiots, lunatics, and persons likely to
become a public charge, but animals having contagious diseases.
Bailroad Company v. Husen, supra. This court has never
hesitated, by the most rigid rules of construction, to guard the
commercial power of Congress against encroachment in the form
or under the guise of State regulation, established for the purpose and with the effect of destroying or impairing rights secured by the Constitution. It has, nevertheless, with marked
distinctness and uniformity, recognized the necessity, growing
out of the fundamental conditions of civil society, of upholding
State police regulations which were enacted in good faith, and
had appropriate and direct connection with that protection to
life, health, and property, which each State owes to her citizens.
These considerations, gathered from the former decisions of
this court, would seem to justify the conclusion that the right
which the patentee or his assignee possesses in the property
created by the application of a patented discovery must be
enjoyed subject to the complete and salutary power with which
the States have never parted, of so defining and regulating the
sale and use of property within their respective limits as to
afford protection to the many against the injurious conduct of
the few. The right of property in the physical substance,
which is the fruit of the discovery, is altogether distinct from
the right in the discovery itself, just as the property in the
instruments or plate by which copies of a map are multiplied
is distinct from the copyright of the map itself. Stephens
v. Cady, 14 How. 528; Stevens v. Gladding et al., 17 id. 447.
The right to sell the Aurora oil was not derived from the letterspatent, but it existed and could have been exercised before
they were issued, unless it was prohibited by valid local legislation. All which they primarily secure is the exclusive right
in the discovery. That is an incorporeal right, or, in the language of Lord Mansfield in Miller v. Taylor (4 Burr. 2303),
"a property in notion," having "no corporeal tangible substance." Its enjoyment may be secured and protected by
national authority against all interference; but the use of the
tangible property which comes into existence by the application of the discovery is not beyond the control of State legisla-

Oct. 1878.]

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

tion, simply because the patentee acquires a monopoly in his
discovery.
An instructive case upon the precise point under consideration is Jordanv. The Overseers of Dayton, 4 Ohio, 295. Jordan
was sued in debt, to recover certain penalties for practising
medicine in violation of an Ohio statute regulating the practice
of physic and surgery. His defence rested, in part, upon the
ground that the medicine administered by him was that for
which letters-patent had issued to his assignor, granting to the
latter the exclusive right of making, constructing, using, and
vending to others to be used, the medicine in question, which
was described in the letters-patent as a new and useful improvement, and as being a mode of preparing, mixing, compounding, administering, and using that medicine. The contention
of Jordan was that the State government could not restrict or
control the beneficial or lucrative use of the invention, and that,
as assignee of the patentee, he was entitled to administer the
patented medicine without obtaining a license to practise
physic or surgery as required by the State statute. The Supreme Court of Ohio said: "This leads us to consider the
nature and extent of such rights as accrue from letters-patent
for useful discoveries. Although the inventor had at all times
the right to enjoy the fruits of his own ingenuity, in every
lawful form of which its use was susceptible, yet, before the
enactment of the statute, he had not the power of preventing
others from participating in that enjoyment to the same extent
with himself; so that, however the world might derive benefit
from his labors, no profit ensued to himself. The ingenious
man was therefore led either to abandon pursuits of this nature, or to conceal his results from the world. The end of the
statute was to encourage useful inventions, and to hold forth,
as inducements to the inventor, the exclusive use of his inventions for a limited period. The sole operation of the statute is
to enable him to prevent others from using the products of his
labors except with his consent. But his own right of using is
not enlarged or affected. There remains in him, as in every
other citizen, the power to manage his property, or give direction to his labors, at his pleasure, subject only to the paramount
claims of society, which requires that his enjoyment may be

PATTERSON V. KENTUCKY.

[Sup. Ct.

modified by the exigencies of the community to which he belongs, and regulated by laws which render it subservient to the
general welfare, if held subject to State control. If the State
should pass a law for the purpose of destroying a right created
by the Constitution, this court will do its duty; but an attempt
by the legislature, in good faith, to regulate the conduct of a
portion of its citizens, in a matter strictly pertaining to its
internal economy, we cannot but regard as a legitimate exercise
of power, although such law may sometimes indirectly affect
the enjoyment of rights flowing from the Federal government."
Some light is thrown upon the question by Janini et al. v.
Paine et al., 1 Iarr. (Del.) 65. In that case it appears that
Yates and McIntyre were assignees of Vanini, the inventor
and patentee of a mode of drawing lotteries, and making
schemes for lotteries on the c6mbination and permutation principle. Other brokers issued a scheme for drawing a lottery
under a certain act for the benefit of a school, adopting the
plan of Vanini's patent. Yates & McIntyre filed their bill for
injunction upon the ground, partly, that the defendants were
proceeding in violation of the patent-rights secured to Vanini.
The Court of Errors and Appeals of Delaware said: "AAt the
times Yates & McIntyre made contracts for the lottery privileges set forth in the bill, we had, in force, an act of assembly
prohibiting lotteries, the preamble of which declares that they
are pernicious and destructive to frugality and industry, and
introductive of idleness and immorality, and against the common good and general welfare. It therefore cannot be admitted that the plaintiffs have a right to use an invention for
drawing lotteries in this State, merely because they have a
patent for it under the United States. A person might with
as much propriety claim a right to commit murder with an
instrument, because he held a patent for it as a new and useful
invention."
In Livingston v. VanIngen (9 Johns. (N. Y.) 507), Chancellor
Kent said that "the national power will be fully satisfied if the
property created by patent be, for the given time, enjoyed and
used exclusively, so far as, under the laws of the several States,
the property shall be deemed for toleration. There is no need
of giving this power any' broader construction in order to

COLEDIAN v. TENNESSEE.

Oct. 18T8.]

attain the end for which it was granted, which was to reward
the beneficent efforts of genius, and to encourage the useful
arts." That case, so far as it related to the validity, under the
commercial clause of the Constitution, of certain statutes of
New York, is not now recognized as authority. It is, perhaps,
also true that the language just quoted was not absolutely
necessary to the decision of that case. But as an expression of
opinion by an eminent jurist as to the nature and extent of the
rights secured by the Federal Constitution to inventors, it is
entitled to great weight.
Without further elaboration, we deem it only necessary to
say that the Kentucky statute does not, in our judgment, contravene the provisions of the Federal Constitution, or of any
statute passed in pursuance thereof. Its enforcement causes
no necessary conflict with national authority, and interferes
with no right secured by Federal legislation, to the patentee
or his assigns.
We perceive no error in the judgment, and it is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE HUNT did not sit in this case, nor take any

part in deciding it.

COLEMrAN v. TENNESSEE.
1. The thirtieth section of the act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 731), entitled "An
Act for enrolling and calling out the national forces, and for other purposes," did not make the jurisdiction of the military tribunals over the
offences therein designated, when committed by persons in the military service of the United States, and subject to the articles of war, exclusive of
that of such courts of the loyal States as were open and in the undisturbed
exercise of their jurisdiction.
2. When the territory of the States, which were banded together in hostility to
the national government, and making war against it, was in the military
occupation of the United States, the tribunals mentioned in said section
had, under the authority conferred thereby, and under the laws of war,
exclusive jurisdiction to try and punish offences of every grade committed
there by persons in the military service.
3 Officers and soldiers of the army of the United States were not subject
to the laws of the enemy, nor amenable to his tribunals for offences corn-

