POWDER

Co. v.

BURKHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

affecting the authoritative administration of justice; the exception to its application is demanded by other considerations
equally important, as affecting the free operations of commerce,
and that confidence in the instruments by which it is carried
on, which is so necessary in a business community. The considerations that give rise to the exception apply with full force
to the present case.
We think that the result reached by the Circuit Court was
correct.
Judgment affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE MILLER, MR.JUSTICE FIELD, and MR.JUSTICE HARLAwI

dissented.

NOTE.- In County of Warren v. Post and County of Warren v. Portsmouth Savings Bank, error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois, which were argued at the same time and by the same counsel
as was the preceding case, IR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, in delivering the opinion of
the court, remarked: These cases are in all respects similar to that of County
of Warren v. M'arcy, and must have the same result.
The judgments therein are respectively
Afflrned.
Mn JUSTICE MILLER, MR.JUSTICE FIELD, and MxS. JUSTICE HAY.LAN dis-

sented.

POWDER COMPANY v. BUIKHARDT.
An incorporated company entered into a contract with A., the owner of letterspatent for an explosive compound called "dualin," whereby he undertook
to manufacture it, as required by the company from time to time, in quantities sufficient to supply the demand for the same, and all sales produced or
effected by the company. The contract provided that all goods lie manufactured should be consigned to the company for sale, and all orders lie
receivcd should be transferred to it to be filled ; that the parties should
equally share the net profits arising from such sales, and equally bear all
losses by explosion, or otherwise, so far as the loss of the dualin was concerned, but the company assumed no risk on A.'s building or machinery; that
the company should, semi-monthly, advance to him, on his requisition, a stipulated sum, for paying salaries, for labor, and for his personal account, and
such further reasonable sums as might be required for incidental expenses of
manufacture; and should furnish him all the raw materials needed to manufacture said explosive in quantities sufficient to supply the demand created
by the company, or should advance the money necessary to purchase them,
-the said advances and the cost of such materials to be charged to him

