STOLL V. PEPPER.[

[Sup. ot.

For these reasons the court is of the opinion that the subsequent action of the President did not restore the petitioner to
the military service, and that his claim was rightly rejected.
Judgment affi.rmed.

STOLL V. PEPPER.
If a distiller uses material for distillation in excess of the estimated capacity
of his distillery, according to the survey made and returned under the provisions of the law regulating that subject, but, in the regular course of his
business, pays the taxes upon his entire production, he cannot be again assessed at the rate of seventy cents on every gallon of spirits which the excess
of material used should have produced, according to the rules of estimation
prescribed by the internal-revenue law.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky.
The court below found the following facts :Robert P. Pepper, was a distiller within the seventh district
in the State of Kentucky, and the surveyed capacity of his
distillery was 151-1% bushels per day. During the months of
May, June, July, and August, 1873, he produced spirits in
excess of the surveyed capacity to the number of 2,2611 gallons, on which a tax was payable amounting in the aggregate
to the sum of $1,582.86.
The surveyed capacity of the said distillery was duly reported to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and the
spirits produced, including the said excess, were drawn from
the receiving cistern, and placed in the government warehouse
attached to the distillery, and were duly reported and assessed,
and bonds for the payment of the tax was given according to
law; all of which was duly reported to the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue.
Afterwards the commissioner made an assessment of seventy
cents per gallon for all the spirits produced in excess of the
surveyed capacity during the months of May, June, July,
and August, and directed the defendant Stoll, collector of the
seventh district, to collect the same.
This assessment was made under the twentieth section of

Oct. 1878.]

STOLL V. PEPPER.

the act of June 6, 1872, and was made for the same spirits
upon the same number of gallons, and for the same amount for
which the taxes had already, under the first regular reports,
been assessed and secured by bond, and which have since been
paid, so that a collection of this assessment by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue would enforce a double payment of
the tax upon the spirits.
In the production of spirits in excess of the estimated capacity no evasion of law was intended, and no benefit was
derived from it by Pepper, the plaintiff, but the distillery was
run beyond its surveyed capacity with the knowledge of the
government officers, including the collector.
On the 9th of January, 1874, the defendant, after having
made demand of the plaintiff for payment of the amount
assessed for the said excess, and the plaintiff having refused
payment, seized one hundred and fifty barrels of spirits belonging to the plaintiff, and containing 6,497- proof gallons, and
after advertising the same for ten days, sold the whole lot at
Frankfort, the place of seizure, for the sum of $1,798.70, being
the amount of taxes assessed, inclusive of costs and penalties.
Said plaintiff before and at the time of seizure, and at the
sale, in writing, protested to the defendant against the said
proceedings, and notified him that he would hold him liable;
and at the time of the sale of the said spirits the plaintiff was
present, and warned bidders that the sale was illegal, and he
would hold the purchasers responsible for the value of the
whiskey.
Before this suit was brought, the plaintiff appealed to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, according to law, for the
correction of the said assessments as erroneous and illegal, and
the said appeal was rejected. The spirits seized were, at the
time of the seizure and up to the time of sale, of the market
value of fifty-five cents per gallon, and of the aggregate value
of $3,573.62. The court being of opinion that the second
assessment by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue was not
authorized by law, but that the plaintiff could not recover more
than the amount actually collected, with interest at the rate of
six per cent per annum, gave judgment that he recover the sum
of $1,887.43, with interest thereon at the rate of sLx per cent

STOLL V. PEPPER.

[Sup. ot.

per annum from the twenty-fifth day of November, 1874, until
paid, and his costs.
The collector then sued out this writ of error.
The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error.
ll3r. Thomas W. Bullitt, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTicE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The question in this case is, whether, if a distiller uses material for distillation in excess of the estimated capacity of his
distillery, according to the survey made and returned under the
provisions of the law regulating that subject, and in the regular
course of his business pays the taxes upon his entire production,
he can be again assessed at the rate of seventy cents on every
gallon of spirits which the excess of material used should have
produced, according to the rules of estimation prescribed by the
internal-revenue law. There is no pretence of bad faith. No
evasion of the law was intended, and no benefit was derived by
the distiller from what was done. He paid taxes on his entire
production, and the second assessment was made upon precisely
the same number of gallons that he had reported in his regular
reports. The enforcement of this assessment, if made, will
operate as double taxation, and nothing more.
The case arises under sect. 20 of the act of July 20, 1868
(15 Stat. 183), as amended June 6, 1872 (17 id. 244), and
which is as follows:"That on the receipt of the distiller's return in each month the
assessor shall inquire and determine whether the distiller has accounted for all the grain or molasses used, and all the spirits produced by him in the preceding month. If the assessor is satisfied
that the distiller has reported all the spirits produced by him, and
the quantity so reported shall be found to be less than eighty per
cent of the producing capacity of the distillery as estimated under
the provisions of this act, an assessment shall be made for such
deficiency at the rate of seventy cents for every proof gallon. In
determining the quantity of grain used, fifty-six pounds shall be
accounted as a bushel; and if the assessor finds that the distiller has
used any grain or molasses in excess of the capacity of his distillery,
as estimated under the provisions of this act, an assessment shall be

Oct. 187b J

STOLL V. PEPPER.

made against the distiller, at the rate of seventy cents for every
proof gallon of spirits that should have been produced from the
grain or molasses so used in excess, which assessment shall be made
whether the quantity of spirits reported is equal to or exceeds
eighty per cent of the producing capacity of the distillery. If the
assessor finds that the distiller has not accounted for all the spirits
produced by him, he shall, from all the evidence he can obtain,
determine what quantity of spirits was actually produced by such
distiller, and an assessment shall be made for the difference between
the quantity reported and the quantity shown to have been actually
produced, at the rate of seventy cents for every proof gallon: Provided, that the actual product shall be assumed to be in no case less
than eighty per cent of the producing capacity of the distillery, as
estimated under the provisions of this act, or under the act to which
this is an amendment."
Before any distiller can commence business, some person designated by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue must make a
survey of his distillery, "for the purpose of estimating and determining its true spirit-producing capacity for a day of twentyfour hours." Act of 1868, sect. 10 (15 Stat. 129), amended by
sect. 12, act of 1872, 17 id. 239. There is nothing in any act
of Congress which requires a distiller to call for a resurvey, unless he wishes to reduce his production (15 Stat. 138, sect. 30);
but the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may at any time
direct a new survey, if he is satisfied that the one already
made is "in any way incorrect or needs revision." 17 id. 239,
sect. 12.
There is nowhere in the internal-revenue law any express
prohibition of production in excess of the estimated capacity.
The requirement of taxes' to the extent of eighty per cent of
the capacity was intended to guard against the danger of frauds
which might arise if under-production was allowed; but as the
entire product goes from the distillery to the warehouse, and is
there taxed without any deduction, it would seem that, if more
than the estimated quantity was produced, the government could
have no just cause of complaint. A continued over-production
would be evidence to the commissioner of an incorrect survey
which might need revision; but if the distiller does not escape
taxation, the government suffers no loss.
The particular section under consideration evidently relates

STOLL V.'PEPPER.

[Sup. Ct.

alone to the assessment and collection of taxes, and not to the
punishment of offences. A distiller's books and his monthly
returns should truly state the quantity of spirits he has produced. This section requires that upon the receipt of these returns the designated officer shall inquire and determine whether
all the material used and the spirits produced have been accounted
for. If he is satisfied that the production has been correctly
reported, he must next inquire whether it equals or exceeds
eighty per cent of the estimated producing capacity of the distillory, and, if it does not, make an assessment for the deficiency
at the rate of seventy cents a gallon, -the theory of the law
being that a distiller must at all events pay taxes upon eighty
per cent of his producing capacity.
If, however, the officer finds that the distiller has not accounted for all the spirits he has produced, he must, from such
evidence as he can obtain, determine what quantity was actually
produced, and make an assessment for the difference between
the quantity reported and that shown to have been produced,
at the rate of seventy cents a gallon ; but in no case can the
actual product be assumed to be less than eighty per cent of
the producing capacity of the distillery. Thus far clearly only
the assessment of taxes is indicated.
There remains to be considered the provision specially applicable to this case, and that is.where the officer finds that the
production is in excess of the estimated capacity of the distillery. If this is an offence, it is certainly no more heinous than
that of not accounting for all spirits actually produced, and as
to which provision is here made only for an assessment of the
tax for the deficiency. It would seem, therefore, that the object
of this part of the section must have been to secure the collection of the tax, and not to impose a penalty for over-production.
The provision is found immediately following that which
requires the officer to determine whether the distiller has accounted for all the material used and all the spirits produced.
For the purpose of verifying the return as to the quantity produced he applies the statutory rule of production to the quantity
of material used, and for the purpose of verifying the report of
material used he reverses the process and reduces the product
to material. If he becomes satisfied that the returns are cor-

Oct. 1878.]

STOLL V. PEPPER.

rect, and that there has been no excess of material used, he
simply inquires whether the product equals or exceeds eighty
per cent of the estimated producing capacity of the distillery,
and if it does, his work is done. The law is satisfied in such
cases if the actual production equals or exceeds eighty per cent
of the producing capacity of the distillery, or, what is the same
thing, eighty per cent of the statutory estimate of the producing
capacity of the material used; for in making the survey the
statutory estimate of production from the material is applied,
and the estimated capacity of the distillery in gallons indicates
exactly the estiniated quantity of material that will be used.
But if an excess of material is used, a different rule is to be applied, and the tax for the excess is not to be paid on the actual
product, but on what it should have been according to the
statutory estimate of the producing capacity of the material.
It was to insure the payment of the tax upon the excess of material at this rate that we think this provision was introduced.
We cannot believe that double taxation was intended, for that
would be introducing into a section of a statute apparently
intended only to regulate the assessment of taxes in several
classes of cases, a penal provision as to one of the classes which
did not apply to the others, and when there was seemingly no
cause for the unfavorable discrimination. The provision is relieved from the charge of being superfluous by the fact that it
imposes a tax upon the production of the excess of material at
what it should have been according to the statutory estimate
of the capacity of the material, and not upon what it actually
was.
Judgment affirmed.

