UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

two decrees together, we can entertain no doubt that it had
jurisdiction to confirm the title of the five hundred acres to
Chaboya on his petition, and did so; and that it had the right
to exclude it from the confirmation to the city, and did so.
We make no special reference to the act of April 25, 1862,
under which the District Court heard Chaboya's claim; for,
except the use of the phrase "La Posa de San Juan Bautista,"
as descriptive of the ranch in question, the court was to be
governed by the same rule as if a proper petition had been
filed before the board of land commissioners.
We see no error in the questions of Federal cognizance
brought before us, and the judgment of the Supreme Court of
California is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.
1. In March and July, 1867, A. entered into contracts with the city of Memphis
to pave certain streets. Most of the work was done after the passage of
an act of the legislature of Tennessee of Dec. 3, 1867, by which contiguous
territory was annexed, and designated as the ninth and tenth wards of the
city, but none of it was done in them. An act of the legislature of Dec. 1,
1869, declared that the people residing within the limits of them should
not be taxed to pay any part of the city debt contracted prior to the passage of said act of 1867. In March, 1875, A., in whose favor a decree
against the city for the money due him for work done under his contracts
had been rendered, obtained a mandamus commanding the city to levy a
tax for its satisfaction. Held, 1. That the debt which the decree represents
was contracted in March and July, 1867. 2. That the purpose of the act
of 1869 was to relieve that territory from municipal obligations previously
incurred for objects in which it had no interest when the obligations were
assumed, and in regard to which it had no voice. S. That no contract relation ever existed between A. and the people of that territory. 4. That the
act of 1869 interfered, therefore, with no vested rights, impaired the obliga-tion of no contract, and violated no provision of the Constitution of that
State in regard to taxation.
2. The action of the court below, in excluding from the operation of the alias
writ of mandamus the property on which the assessments by the front foot
for the cost of the pavement had been paid, having been had in compliance
with the petition of A., he cannot be permitted to complain of it here.
3. Whether the basis of the levy was to be the assessment of 1875 or that of
1876 is a matter of no importance. The rights of A. were secured by the
requirement of the writ, that the city should levy a tax sufficient to yield
to him the sum therein mentioned.

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
Pursuant to the mandate in City of Hemphis v. Brown (20
Wall. 290), the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee passed a decree, March 16, 1875,
in favor of Brown against the city, for $292,133.47, and costs,
in payment for work done in laying certain pavements in
said city. Execution was issued, and returned no property
found. March 22, Brown applied for an alternative writ of
mandamus to compel the city to pay the decree, or, in default
thereof, to levy and collect, as authorized by the act of the legislature passed March 18, 1873, a tax apportioned to the years
1875, 1876, and 1877, in addition to all other taxes, sufficient
in amount, after making due allowance for all delinquencies,
insolvencies, and defaults, to realize $125,000 each year, and
pay the same over to him as fast as collected, or so much
thereof as may be necessary for the purpose of satisfying the
decree. The writ issued March 26, and on the same day the
city filed an answer setting forth that its treasury was empty,
and its power of taxation - which, for general purposes, was
limited to one per cent on all taxable property- exhausted;
that it was a misdemeanor to apply special taxes for any other
object than that for which they had been levied; that said act
of March 18 had been repealed; that the sum of $375,000
commanded to be raised by the writ exceeds the amount of the
decree by $83,133.47; that pursuant to a former mandate, issued
in 1873, the city levied a tax of seven mills per cent for the
year 1873, and three mills per cent for the year 1874, in
favor of Brown, and that there is an uncollected balance on
said levies of $170,000, all of which is on account of his decree or claim now sought to be enforced, and which is being
collected and paid over to him as fast as possible; that there
has been collected and paid over to him from said levies about
$132,742.69, and if respondents are required now to relevy
the same burdensome tax on those who have paid, it will be
doing a great injury to the prompt tax-payer, and will operate
as an inducement to tax-payers to resist the payment of the
tax; that by the provisions of the law governing the city, the
ninth and tenth wards, generally denominated as the new limits.

. UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

are exempt from the payment of any tax to pay for certain
indebtedness of the city, and that the writ does not show
whether the indebtedness is one of the excepted classes or not,
and the determination of this question is a judicial one, which
respondents cannot safely decide for themselves, and should
be determined upon the face of the writ; that when the contract was made for the laying of said pavements, by which
the aforesaid debts became due to him, it was understood and
stipulated that the owners of abutting property should pay
for the pavement in front of each lot; that many persons paid
for such pavement according to the terms of the contract,
and when the 6ct of March 18, 1873, was passed, it provided
that such persons as had paid for the pavement and held receipts therefor might be excused or released from paying the
tax levied to pay for such pavement, -wherefore respondents
cannot levy and collect from all persons subject to pay taxes
the tax as commanded by the writ, and therefore cannot obey
the writ.
Brown demurred to the answer, on the ground that said
act gave full power to levy the tax, and that the legislature
could not repeal it so as to defeat his rights; that the court
could not consider past levies which had not been paid; that
said act makes no discrimination in favor of any person or class
of persons; and that the voluntary payment of the special assessments was no defence to a lawful levy of taxes for the payment of his decree. The demurrer having been sustained, a
peremptory writ was issued, March 30, 1875, commanding that
the city and its general council "proceed each for the ensuing
three years, to wit, 1875, 1876, 1877, respectively, at the same
time and in the same manner that other taxes are assessed and
levied and collected, to assess, levy, and collect upon all the
property within the city taxable by law, a tax, in addition to
all other taxes allowed by law, payable in lawful money of the
United States of America, sufficient in amount, after making
due allowance for all delinquencies, insolvencies, and defaults,
to realize $125,000 each year, for the years 1875 and 1876
respectively, and so much of the said sum for the remaining
year, to wit, 1877, as may be required or necessary to pay and
satisfy the balance of the said decree, including interest and costs,

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

not satisfied by the taxes collected and paid over during the
two preceding years."
It was further ordered that a writ for each of said years
should be issued by the clerk, upon the request of Brown. The
writ for 1875 was issued June 28, and served the next day. On
December 10, the city passed an ordinance "that a special tax
of fifty-four cents on the one hundred dollars' worth of property be and the same is hereby levied for the forty-eighth corporate year (1875), for the purpose of paying $125,000 of the
decree rendered by the United States Circuit Court in favor
of T. E. Brown against the city, as required by the writ of
mandamus."
Feb. 9, 1876, the city filed a return to the last-mentioned
writ, setting forth the passage of the above ordinance, and
alleging that proceedings were being had to collect the tax
thereby imposed; that by an act of the legislature passed Dec.
3,1867, certain new territory was added to the corporate limits of
the city, and designated as the ninth and tenth wards thereof;
that by an act of the legislature passed Dec. 1, 1869, it was en-

acted that the people residing within such addition should not
be taxed for any part of the debt of the city, or interest thereon,
contracted prior to the passage of the act of Dec. 3, 1867; that
in March and July, 1867, the city entered into contracts with
certain parties, whereby they undertook to pave streets with
Nicholson pavement, - which contracts were, with its consent,
transferred in June, 1868, to Brown; that although some portion of the work was done after the passage of the act of Dec.
3, 1867, the greater portion was done prior thereto, and none of
it in the ninth or tenth wards; that pursuant to an act of the
legislature passed Nov. 24, 1866, the contracts provided that
the cost of the paving was to be borne by the owners of the
lots abutting on the streets to be paved, according to frontage,
the cost to be paid by a specific assessment on each lot and the
owner thereof, one-half to be paid in cash on the completion of
each section of pavement, and the other in thirty, sixty, and
ninety days thereafter, in equal instalments; that a large number of said owners paid for the work in that manner, but that
others having refused so to pay, and suit having been brought to
so compel them, the Supreme Court of Tennessee declared said

UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

act of 1866 unconstitutional and void, and that the sums so due
must be raised by general taxation; that the act of March 18,
1873, was thereupon passed, empowering the city to levy a tax
in addition to all other taxes allowed by law, sufficient to cover
the entire cost of said pavements; that on March 20, 1875, the
act of 1873 was repealed, and that suits were then pending to
restrain the levy of any tax on the property of those persons
who had paid to the contractors. This return was, on motion
of Brown, stricken out. He then filed an affidavit setting
forth his belief that the tax of fifty-four cents on the one hundred dollars' worth of taxable property was insufficient to pay
the sum for the year 1875, required by the peremptory writ to
be paid on his decree; that the value of the entire taxable
real and personal property in the city, including the $2,000,000
in the ninth and tenth wards, was $23,000,000; but that from
the operation of said tax the property in said wards and that of
persons who had paid the special assessments, as well as the
taxable capital of merchants, was excepted. He therefore
prayed for an "alias writ of mandamus commanding the city of
Memphis and its mayor and general council to make a further
or additional levy of taxes on all the taxable property of the
city of Memphis, including the capital of merchants as taxable,
and excluding the property in the ninth and tenth wards of the
city, and the property aforesaid on which the said special
assessments for the Nicholson pavement costs were so paid, as
exempt from such taxation, such an amount in addition to the
levy already made as will be sufficient to pay to him the entire
sum of $125,000, to which he was entitled as aforesaid; and
that the said levy may be made upon the taxable property as
assessed and returned for the year 1875, and may not be further
postponed."
On March 2, 1876, the court ordered "that an alias peremptory writ of mandamus do forthwith issue, directed to the city
of Memphis, and the mayor and general council, commanding
them to proceed, when they next levy taxes, to levy, in addition
to the tax already levied for the payment of the plaintiff's decree under the requirements of the original writ herein issued,
a furtheetax on all the taxable property of the city, excluding
from such taxable property the property of persons residing in

Ot. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

the ninth and tenth wards of the city, and the property on which
the assessments for the payment of the costs of the Nicholson
pavement have been paid, the same being, as the court adjudges,
exempt from taxation for the payment of the said decrees, sufficient in amount, when added to the tax heretofore levied under
the original writ, to yield to the plaintiff $125,000; and to collect the said taxes so to be levied as speedily as the same can
lawfully be done, and to pay over to the plaintiff forthwith,
from time to time as the same may be received, the sums collected, taking his receipt therefor; and that they make due
return to the court herein, on the return-day of the writ, of the
manner in which they have obeyed the same."
The United States, on the relation of Brown, thereupon
brought the case here, and assigned errors as follows:The court erred 1. In excluding from the alias writ of mandamus the property in the ninth and tenth wards of the city as exempt from
taxation.
2. In excluding the property on which the assessments by
the front foot for the cost of the pavement had been paid.
3. In declining to order the additional levy to be made on
the assessment for 1875.
3ir. William H1._Randolyh for the plaintiff in error.
iHr. W. Y. C. Hfumes and 31r. S. P. Walker, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
By the mandamus awarded on the 30th of March, 1875, the
city was commanded "to levy and collect upon all the property
within the city taxable by law, a tax, in addition to all other
taxes allowed by law," sufficient in amount to pay the relator's
judgment. In obedience to this mandate the general council of
the city passed an ordinance levying a tax of fifty-four cents
on each one hundred dollars' worth of property, and proceeded
to collect it. But the relator, thinking this tax insufficient to
raise the sum required by the writ to be raised, applied to the
court for an alias writ, commanding an additional levy of taxes
upon all the taxable property of the city, including the capital
of merchants as taxable (but excluding the property in the
ninth and tenth wards, and the property upon which special
AIR. JUSTICE STRONG

voL. Vii.

19

UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ot.

assessments had been made and paid), sufficient in amount to
pay the sum required to be paid by the original writ. In compliance with this application such an alias mandamus was
ordered by the court, and he now complains that the court erred
in ordering the levy, excluding the property in the ninth and
tenth wards. Those wards were no part of the city when the
contracts were made, in virtue of which the relator's rights
accrued. The territory embraced within them was added to
the city by an act of the legislature of Dec. 3, 1867, and by a
subsequent act passed Dec. 1, 1869, it was enacted that the
people residing within the limits of the addition to the city
made by the act of 1867 shall not be taxed to pay any part of
the debt of the city contracted prior to the passage of the said
act. In view of this legislation the inquiry arises, whether the
property within those wards is by law exempt from taxation
for payment of the debt due the relator, for the mandamus
directed the levy of a tax only upon property taxable by law.
To respond intelligently to this inquiry, the nature and origin
of the debt must be considered.
In the months of March and July, 1867, the city entered
into contracts with two firms, by which they undertook to pave
certain streets with Nicholson pavements. These contracts,
with the consent of the city, were assigned to the relator in
1868, and under them the streets were paved. Some of the
work was done and some of the materials were furnished before
the passage of the act of 1867, but much the greater portion
was done thereafter. None of the pavements were laid in the
ninth or tenth wards. It was for the work done and materials
furnished under these contracts, and in consequence of the city's
liability assumed in them, that the relator's judgment was
recovered on the 16th of March, 1875. Such, in brief, was the
origin and nature of the debt.
Though in large part the pavements were constructed after
the ninth and tenth wards became a part of the city, we think,
within the meaning of the act of 1869, the debt must be held
as having been contracted when the contracts were made. It
was then the city assumed the liability and took up the burden
which is now in judgment. It appears quite plainly that the
legislature, in the act of 1869, did not intend to use the word

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

"debt" in its technical sense. Looking at the spirit of the act
rather than to its letter, the purpose evidently was to relieve
the new territory brought into the city by the act of 1867 from
obligations previously incurred by the city for objects in which
the added territory had no interest when the obligations were
assumed, and in regard to which it had no voice.
It is true the act of 1867, which made the ninth and tenth
wards a part of the city, did not itself exempt them from any
of the liabilities of the municipal corporation of which they
became a part. It might have given such an exemption. But
no discrimination was then made in their favor. The people
resident in them became at once entitled to a common ownership of the city's property and privileges, subject to the same
duties as those resting on others. Had the act of 1869 never
been passed, it must be conceded they would have been on an
exact equality with all other owners of property in the city,
equally entitled with them to all municipal rights and privileges,
and equally subject to all municipal burdens and charges.
See cases collected in Dillon on Municipal Corporations, sects.
36, 136, 633, 634.
That act, however, was passed. In terms it relieved the
people of the ninth and teifth wards from liability to pay any
part of the debt of the city contracted before they came into it.
It is still the law of the State, unless it violates some provision
of the Constitution. The relator contends that it is in conflict
with the ordinance that "no retrospective law, or law impairing
the obligation of contracts, shall be passed." To this we cannot assent. The act was wholly prospective in its operation
when it was passed. It furnished a rule only for the future,
and it interfered with no vested rights, or with the obligation
of any contract. There never was any contract relation between
the people of those wards and Brown, the relator. The utmost
effect of the act of 1867 was to give the contractors with the
city, after their contracts were made, a possibly enlarged remedy;
and the act of 1869 withdrew the gift before any absolute right
to it had been acquired, before the act of 1873 was passed, the act which authorized taxation to pay the debt contracted.
The same power which added the wards to the city might have
severed them from it. Had they been parts of the city when

UNITED STATES V. MEMPHIS.

[Sup. Ct.

the contracts were made, and subsequently been severed from
it, no one could successfully contend they would have remained
liable to city taxation for any city purpose. It is evident,
therefore, that neither any vested right nor any contract obligation was disturbed by the act of 1869, which declared those
wards exempt from taxation for any debt contracted before
they were incorporated into the city.
Nor do we perceive that the act of 1869 violated any other
provision of the State Constitution to which our attention has
been called. It was not a law for the benefit of individuals,
inconsistent with the general laws of the land; nor did it grant
immunities or exemptions not extended to all individuals in
like condition; nor did it deprive any person of property without
the judgment of his peers or the law of the land.
It has been argued on behalf of the relator that the act
violated the principles of taxation established by the Constitution, requiring taxation of all property within the taxing
district, forbidding the exemption of any except such as the
Constitution declares May be exempted, and requiring that
taxes shall be equal and uniform. We have not been able to
feel the force of this objection. We find nothing in the provisions of the Constitution to which'we have been referred that
justifies it. Surely the legislature is not prohibited from declaring what districts shall be liable to taxation for local uses, and
the act of 1869 was but an exertion of this power.
The second assignment of error is that the alias writ of mandamus commanded the levy of the additional tax, excluding
from its operation the property on which the assessments by
the front foot for the cost of the pavement had been paid.
Whether the exclusion was erroneously directed or not we are
not now called upon to determine, for the relator cannot be
heard to insist that it was. The action of the court was in this
particular exactly what he asked. He presented a petition
asking that such property should be excluded from the levy,
and he cannot now be permitted to complain in this court of an
order made in the inferior court at his instance.
The remaining assignment of error is that the court ordered
the additional levy to be made on the assessment for 1876,
instead of the assessment for 1875. It does not appear certainly

Oct 1877.]

8MEMPHIS V. UNITED STATES.

that such was the order of the court. It was made on the
2d of March. 1876, and it directed the mayor and council to
levy the additional tax when they next levied taxes. Whether
the basis of the levy was to be the assessment of 1875 or that
of 1876 is not clear, nor is it a matter of any importance. It
is not claimed that the aggregate assessment for the latter year
was less in amount than that of the former. It is not, therefore,
apparent that the relator was hurt by the order. The city is
required to levy a tax sufficient in amount to yield to him the
sum mentioned, and that secures his rights.
Judgment affirmed.

MEMPHIS V. UITED STATES.
1. Vested'rights acquired by a creditor under and by virtue of a statute of a
State granting new remedies, or enlarging those which existed when the
debt was contracted, are beyond the reach of the legislature, and the repeal
of the statute will not affect them.
2. Sect. 49 of the Code of Tennessee, declaratory of the law of that State respecting the effect of repealing statutes, is in accord with this doctrine.
3. On March 16, 1875, A. obtained a decree against Memphis for the payment to
him of $292,133.47, for materials furnished and work done under contracts
entered into with that city in 1867 for paving certain streets. Execution
having been issued, and returned unsatisfied, the court, on the 22d of that
month, awarded an alternative writ of mandamus, to compel the city to
exercise the power conferred by an act of the legislature passed March 18,
1873, and levy "a tax, in addition to all taxes allowed by law," sufficient to
pay the decree. The city answered that said act had been repealed by one
passed March 20, 1875, and that the tax which, by the act of Feb. 13, 1854,
it was authorized to levy for all purposes had been levied, and its powers
were therefore exhausted. A. demurred to the answer; the demurrer was
sustained, and the writ made peremptory March 30, 1875. The act passed
March 20, 1875, was approved by the governor of the State on the twentythird day of that month. Held, 1. That the repealing act did not become
a law until its approval by the governor. 2. That prior thereto, A., by his
decree and the alternative mandamus, which was a proceeding commenced
by virtue of the act of March 18, 1873, had acquired a vested right, which
was not defeated by the repealing act, to have a tax, payable in lawful
money, levied sufficient to pay him, although it required the levy of a tax
beyond the rate mentioned in the act of 1854.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.

