NOYES v. HALL.

[Sup. Or.

Cases, 7 id. 283; H enderson v. Mayor of New York, 92 U. S.
259; OChy Lung v. Freeman, id. 275; Bailroad Company v.
Husen, 95 id. 465. That question does not arise in this case.
Judqment affirmed.

NoYE v HALL
1. In Elinois, open, visible, and exclusive possession of lands by a person, under
a contract for a conveyance of them to him, is constructive notice of his
title to creditors and subsequent purchasers.
2. A., the owner in fee of certain lands, having mortgaged them to B., to secure
a debt, contracted in writing to sell and convey them to C., who thereupon, pursuant to the contract, entered on them, and thereafter remained
in the open and visible possession of them. The assignee of B. subsequently
brought suit to foreclose the mortgage, but failed to make 0. a party. A
decree by default was rendered, under which the lands were sold to D., who
conveyed them to B., after C. had paid to A. all that was due upon the
contract, and received from him a deed, which was in due time recorded.
B. brought ejectment, and C. filed his bill to redeem. Held, that C., not
having been served with process, was not bound by the foreclosure proceedings, and that the title which passed by the sale under them was subject to
his right of redemption.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
In April, 1858, Luther Hall, tenant in fee of certain lands
in Illinois, mortgaged them to Lauren A. Noyes, to secure the
payment of $1,075, and on June 4, 1859, made a contract, in
writing, to sell them to Hollis S. Hall, for $3,000, payable in
instalments. In February, 1860, the latter sold his interest
in the lands to Wright C. Hall, who paid him $300, and assumed the conditions of his contract by making a new one with
said Luther, of the same date and tenor. In March, 1860, said
Wright enclosed the lands, and from that date has had open,
continuous, and visible possession of them. His contract with
said Luther was never recorded. Feb. 10, 1864, by deed recorded on the 19th of that month, Luther, having received all
the instalments of the purchase-money for the lands, conveyed
them to said Wright.
In May, 1861, Woodward, assignee of said Noyes, brought

Oct.

1877.]

NOYES V. HEALL.

suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Illinois, to foreclose the mortgage, but failed to make
said Wright a party. A decree by default was entered, under
which the lands were sold in October, 1861, by a master of the
court, and purchased for $400, by one Pickering. The balance
of the mortgage debt was satisfied by sales of other property.
Sept. 1, 1871, Pickering duly conveyed the lands to said Noyes,
who, in October, 1872, brought ejectment against said Wright.
The latter, on December 14, following, filed this bill, praying
that the further prosecution of that action be restrained, and
that he be allowed to redeem the lands.
The court decreed that said Wright was the owner in fee of
the premises, and was entitled to redeem by paying $400, the
amount bid at the master's sale, with interest thereon from
the date of said sale, at the rate prescribed by the mortgage,
amounting in all to the sum of $933.38. From that decree
Noyes appealed to this court.
Mr. Elliott Anthony for the appellant.
3r.Hf. D. Beam, eontra.
IR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Antecedent to the claim of the respondent, the unincumbered
fee-simple title of the premises was in the father of the complainant. On the 26th of April, 1858, the owner of the tract,
consisting of a farm of eighty acres, being indebted to the respondent in the sum of $1,075, mortgaged the farm to him to
secure the payment of that sum.
Sufficient also appears to show that the fee-simple owner of
the premises, on the 4th of June, 1859, contracted in writing
with the brother of the complainant to convey the same to the
other contracting party for the sum of $3,000, payments to be
made as therein specified; and that the brother, eight months
later, sold out his interest thus acquired to the complainant,
the new contract being made by consent to bear the same date
as that previously given to the brother, the complainant giving
his notes in the place of those given by the brother, except for
$300, which he paid in cash. Payments, except for that amount,
-were to be made as in the previous arrangement; and the complainant alleges that prior to the commencement of the next

NoYEs

V. HALL.

(Sup. Ct.

year he entered into the possession of the premises, and that
he has continued in the possession of the same from that time
to the present.
By the terms of the agreement, the premises were to be conveyed to the complainant by a good and sufficient deed; and
he alleges that the covenantor and his wife, on the 10th of
February, 1864, by deed duly executed and acknowledged, conveyed the same to him; and it appears that the deed, on the
19th of the same month, was duly recorded.
Process was served; and the respondent appeared and filed an
answer, in which he sets up the mortgage given by the original
owner, the forecl6sure of the same, the sale of the premises by
the master, and his title to the same by virtue of the master's deed to the purchaser from whom he acquired the title to
the premises. Proofs were taken, the parties heard, and the
court entered a decree in favor of the complainant.
Due appeal was taken by the respondent to this court; and
he assigns, among others, the following errors: 1. That the
complainant has not made such a case as to warrant a court of
equity in granting him relief. 2. That the bill of complaint
does not allege any sufficient reason why it was not commenced
at an earlier date. 8. That the bill of complaint does not allege that any tender of the amount required to redeem the
mortgage was ever made before the commencement of the present suit. 4. That the contract to convey the land to the complainant was subsequent to the execution of the mortgage.
Both of the notes secured by the mortgage were transferred,
and it appears that the assignee instituted the suit for foreclosure. When the foreclosure suit was commenced, the present complainant was in possession of the premises, having
previously paid .$1,000 towards the purchase of the same under
his contract; and the record shows that he was not notified of
the commencement or pendency of the suit.
Though in the sole possession of the premises, the complainant alleges that he was not served with process; and that no
answer having been filed in the case, the bill of complaint was
taken as confessed, and that a decree of foreclosure was entered, under which the premises were sold by the master for
the sum of $400.

Oct. 1877.]

NoYES v.

HALL.

None of these matters are controverted; and it is also alleged
that conveyance of the premises in due form was made by the
master to the bidder, and that he conveyed the same to the respondent. Since that time, as the complainant alleges, the
respondent has commenced a suit against him to recover the
possession of the premises.
All of these matters are formally set forth in the bill of
complaint; and the complainant alleges that the respondent
neither claims nor has any other or further interest or title to
the premises than that derived by purchase under the decree
of foreclosure, and he avers that such title is subject to his
right to redeem the premises described in the bill of complaint.
Appropriate allegations are also made to show that he is entitled to such relief, upon the ground that he has been at all
times since the sale of the premises ready and anxious to redeem the same from the sale and purchase; that he has offered
to redeem the premises of the respondent by the payment of
the said sum of 9400, with interest at the rate of ten per cent
from the date of the sale to the time of such tender of redemption, and that the respondent refused and still refuses to accept
such payment and to release the claim and title to the premises
by him so acquired; wherefore he prays that he may be declared entitled to redeem the premises by the payment of the
amount of the purchase-money, with interest to the date of
the decree, and that the respondent, upon the payment of such
amount, may be decreed to convey to the complainant all the
title and interest in the premises which he acquired by such
purchase.
Deeds, mortgages, and other instruments of writing which
are authorized to be recorded, take effect, by the law of that
State, from and after the time of filing the same for record,
and operate as notice to creditors and subsequent purchasers.
Rev. Stat. of Illinois, 1874, 278, sect. 30.
Argument to show that the respondent had due notice of the
claim of the complainant is quite unnecessary; as the case
shows, beyond controversy, that the deed under which he acquired the title to the premises was duly recorded, and that he
was, before that time, in the open, visible, and exclusive possession of the same, which, by the settled law of that State, is

NOYES V. HALL.

[Sup. at.

constructive notice to creditors and subsequent purchasers.
Truesdale v. Ford, 37 Ill. 210.
Record evidence of a conveyance operates as notice, and so
may open possession: the rule being that actual, visible, and
open possession is equivalent to registry. Cabeen v. Bre7kenridge, 48 id. 91; -Dunlap v. Wilson, 32 id. 517; Bradley v.
Snyder, 14 id. 263.
Viewed in the light of these authorities and the allegations
in the bill of complaint, it is clear that the first assignment of
error must be overruled.
Nor is it necessary to enter into any discussion of the second
error assigned, as it appears that the complainant filed the bill
of complaint to redeem the premises as soon as it became necessary to vindicate his title and possession against the ejectment
suit instituted by the respondent.
Beyond all doubt, the contract under which the complainant
claims the right to purchase the premises is subject to the
mortgage held by the respondent; but it is a sufficient answer
to the third and fourth assignments of error to say that the decree sustains the validity of the mortgage, and makes ample
provision to secure to the respondent all the rights which he
acquired by virtue of the sale and purchase under the foreclosure. Parties interested in the premises who were not served
with process are not bound by that decree, and it follows that
the respondent took his title subject to the rights of the complainant acquired under the deed, just the same as if no such
decree had ever been made.
Suppose that is so, then it only remains to examine the decree, and ascertain whether it makes due provision to preserve
all the rights of the respondent.
Coming to the proofs, it will be sufficient to say that the
finding of the court below shows that all the material allegations of the bill of complaint are fully sustained, which is all
that need be said in support of the theory of fact embodied in
the decree. Such being the fact, the court decreed that the
complainant was entitled to relief, he paying to the respondent,
within one hundred days from the date of the decree, the sum
of $913.33, with costs of suit; and that in default of such payment the bill of complaint shall stand dismissed; and that the

Oct. 1877.]

YOUNG V. UNITED

STATES.

respondent, if the payment be made, shall, within thirty days
thereafter, execute to the complainant a good and sufficient
deed, as prayed in the bill of complaint.
Examined in the light of these suggestions, as the case should
be, it is clear that the decree is correct, and we are all of the
opinion that there is no error in the record.
-Decree affirmed

YOUNG v. UNITED STATES.
1. Cotton owned by a British subject, although he never came to this country,
was, if found during the rebellion within the Confederate territory, a legitimate subject of capture by the forces of the United States, and the title
thereto was transferred to the government as soon as the property was
reduced to firm possession.
2. Within two years after the rebellion closed, if he had given no aid or comfort thereto, he could, under the act of March 12, 1863 (12 Stat. 820), have
maintained a suit in the Court of Claims, to recover the proceeds of his
cotton so captured which were paid into the treasury.
3. If he furnished munitions of war and supplies to the Confederate government, or did any acts which would have rendered him liable to punishment
for treason had he owed allegiance to the United States, he gave aid and
comfort to the rebellion, within the meaning of that act, and was thereby
excluded from the privileges which it confers.
4. By giving such aid and comfort, he committed, in a criminal sense, no offence
against the United States, and he was therefore not included in the pardon
and amnesty granted by the proclamation of the President of Dec. 25, 1868
(15 Stat. 711).

from the Court of Claims.
This suit arises under the Abandoned and Captured Property Act (12 Stat. 820), and comes into this court by appeal
from the judgment of the Court of Claims against John Young,
trustee in bankruptcy of Alexander Collie, upon the following
finding of facts APPEAL

"6I. Said Collie was a subject of the Queen of Great Britain and
Ireland, at one time residing in Manchester, England, as a member
of the firm of Alexander Collie & Co., but in the years 1862, 1863,
and 1864, residing and doing business, in his own name, in London,
England, and he has at no time been in the United States.
"II.
In the year 1862, the said Collie engaged in fitting out, lading, and sending steamships to run the blockade of the ports in

