Oct 1877.]

8MEMPHIS V. UNITED STATES.

that such was the order of the court. It was made on the
2d of March. 1876, and it directed the mayor and council to
levy the additional tax when they next levied taxes. Whether
the basis of the levy was to be the assessment of 1875 or that
of 1876 is not clear, nor is it a matter of any importance. It
is not claimed that the aggregate assessment for the latter year
was less in amount than that of the former. It is not, therefore,
apparent that the relator was hurt by the order. The city is
required to levy a tax sufficient in amount to yield to him the
sum mentioned, and that secures his rights.
Judgment affirmed.

MEMPHIS V. UITED STATES.
1. Vested'rights acquired by a creditor under and by virtue of a statute of a
State granting new remedies, or enlarging those which existed when the
debt was contracted, are beyond the reach of the legislature, and the repeal
of the statute will not affect them.
2. Sect. 49 of the Code of Tennessee, declaratory of the law of that State respecting the effect of repealing statutes, is in accord with this doctrine.
3. On March 16, 1875, A. obtained a decree against Memphis for the payment to
him of $292,133.47, for materials furnished and work done under contracts
entered into with that city in 1867 for paving certain streets. Execution
having been issued, and returned unsatisfied, the court, on the 22d of that
month, awarded an alternative writ of mandamus, to compel the city to
exercise the power conferred by an act of the legislature passed March 18,
1873, and levy "a tax, in addition to all taxes allowed by law," sufficient to
pay the decree. The city answered that said act had been repealed by one
passed March 20, 1875, and that the tax which, by the act of Feb. 13, 1854,
it was authorized to levy for all purposes had been levied, and its powers
were therefore exhausted. A. demurred to the answer; the demurrer was
sustained, and the writ made peremptory March 30, 1875. The act passed
March 20, 1875, was approved by the governor of the State on the twentythird day of that month. Held, 1. That the repealing act did not become
a law until its approval by the governor. 2. That prior thereto, A., by his
decree and the alternative mandamus, which was a proceeding commenced
by virtue of the act of March 18, 1873, had acquired a vested right, which
was not defeated by the repealing act, to have a tax, payable in lawful
money, levied sufficient to pay him, although it required the levy of a tax
beyond the rate mentioned in the act of 1854.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.

MEMPHIS v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. t

The facts involved in this case are the same as those in
United States v. iiemplis, supra, p. 284.
The city of Memphis, by whom this writ was sued out, assigns
the following errors: The court below erred1. In holding that the city of Memphis had the power or
was under the duty of levying the tax, as adjudged.
2. In holding that the legislature had no power to repeal the
act of March 18, 1873.
3. In adjudging that the tax to be levied should be payable
only in lawful money of the United States, as the act of March
18, 1873, required the city of Memphis to receive, in payment
of the tax therein authorized, "any sum or sums, with interest,
paid by persons in satisfaction, or part satisfaction, of said special
assessments, illegally levied and collected as aforesaid."
4. In holding that a new and further tax be laid, sufficient
to pay the entire decree, for $292,133.47, the return to the
alternative writ disclosing that under a former mandate of the
court the city had made a special levy of $302,742.69, for
the purpose of paying the decree; that of said levy $132,742.69
had been collected and paid over, and the remainder, $170,000,
was being collected and paid over as rapidly as possible.
5. In awarding the writ of mandamus commanding the levy
qf a tax sufficient in amount, after making due allowances for
all delinquencies, insolvencies, and defaults, to pay the decree.
6. In awarding the peremptory writ of mandamus.
ML'r. W. . C. HJ~umes and AMr. S. P. Walker for the plaintiff
m error.
Mr. IVlliam H. Randolph, contra.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The important question in this case is, whether the law of the
State empowered the city of Memphis to levy the tax which by
the writ of mandamus it was commanded to levy. If it did not,
the award of the writ cannot be sustained, for a mandamus
will not be granted to compel the levy of a tax not authorized
by law.
By an act of the legislature passed on the 18th of March,
1873, it was enacted as follows : -

Oct. 1877.]

MEMPHIS V. UNITED STATES.

"That where an incorporated town or city has, by virtue of presumed authority to lay special assessments for specific purposes,
levied and collected taxes or special assessments, the right to make
which levy and assessment was afterwards declared void by the
Supreme Court of the State, said town or city shall have the power
to levy a tax, in addition to all other taxes allowed by law to be
levied, sufficient to cover the entire cost of the improvement, with
interest thereon, for which said special assessments were illegally
made, and in the levying of such additional tax authority is hereby
given to such town or city to allow as valid payments on said addi
tional tax any sum or sums, with interest, paid by persons in satisfaction, or in part satisfaction, of said special assessments, illegally
levied and collected as aforesaid."
This statute, it is true, was not in existence when the plaintiff's contract with the city was made, but it is confessedly available for him, unless it was repealed before he acquired any rights
under it. Plainly it was enacted to meet his case, and had
there been no repeal, the question now raised would not be
before us. It is claimed, however, that it was repealed before
the Circuit Court awarded the mandamus, and what was the
effect of that legislative action upon the power of the court ip
this case becomes therefore a very important question. It is an
acknowledged principle that a creditor by contract has a vested
right to the remedies for the recovery of the debt which
existed at law when the contract was made, and that the legislature of a State cannot take them away without impairing the
obligation of the contract, though it may modify them, and
even substitute others, if a sufficient remedy be left, or another
sufficient one be provided. The law is in effect a part of the.
contract. But it is not so clear that when a new remedy is
authorized after a contract has been made, that remedy may
not be wholly taken away by the legislature, before any vested
rights have been acquired under it. In such a case the parties
did not contract with reference to it, and it did not enter in to
their agreement. It had nothing to do with the obligations
they assumed. It is, however, no less true that vested rights
may be acquired by the creditor under it and by virtue of it;
and when such rights have been acquired, they are beyond the
reach of the legislature, and the repeal of the law will not affect

MEMPHIS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

them. As to them the law continues in force, notwithstanding
its repeal.
In this case the relator recovered his judgment against the
city on the 16th of March, 1875. Into that judgment his contract was merged, and it no longer had any legal existence. If,
as asserted by Blackstone, the judgment was itself a contract,
the remedies for its enforcement, existing at the time when it
was recovered, could not be taken away either by direct legislation, or indirectly, by repealing the law which gave those
remedies. And if the judgment may not be considered a contract of record, still the vested rights it gave to the relator,
whatever they were, are equally secure against legislative
invasion.
After the judgment was obtained an execution was issued to
collect the amount of it, and on the 22d of March, 1875, the
alternative mandamus was issued to compel the levy of the tax
of which the city now complains. It was not until after all this
that the act of March 18, 1873, was repealed. The act repealing it was approved by the governor on the 23d of March, 1875,
and it became a law only from the time of his approval. Such
is the generally received doctrine. See cases cited in 4 Abb.
Nat. Dig. 223. It is said, however, the rule in Tennessee is
different; and it is contended that as the act passed the two
Houses on the 20th of March, though not approved by the governor until the 23d, it took effect, by relation, on the day of its
passage through the two Houses ; and we are referred to Dyer v.
States, Meigs (Tenn.), 237-255, and to Turnerv. Oburn, 2 Coldw.
(Tenn.) 460. Those decisions were under the Constitution of
1834, which did not require the approval of the governor, or a
passage of the bill over his objection, to make a binding statute
as the Constitution of 1870 does. It is true the earlier Constitution required the signature of an act by the respective speakers
of the House. That was for the purpose of attestation only, and
the act was then said to take effect on the day of its passage.
The later Constitution demands the same signatures, and it demands more, namely, the approval of the governor. It also
ordains that no bill shall become a law until it shall have
received his approval, or shall have been otherwise passed
under the provisions of the Constitution; that is, as we under-

Oct.1877.]

8MEMPHIS v. UNITED STA.TES.

stand it, over his refusal to approve. The executive is thus
made a necessary constituent of the law-making power. If
with this be considered the declaration of the Constitution, that
no retrospective law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts, shall be made, the conclusion is inevitable, that the
repealing act had no effect upon any thing that was done
before March 23, 1875. But before that day we think the
relator had acquired a vested right by his judgment and his
alternative writ of mandamus to have a tax levied sufficient to
pay the debt due to him from the city, - a right of which
he could be deprived by no subsequent action of the legislature.
We do not deny that it is competent for a legislature to repeal
an act which when it was passed was a mere gratuity, if while
it was in existence no vested rights have been acquired under it
or in virtue of it. But such, we think, is not this case. Indeed,
there are very strong reasons for holding that the act of March
18, 1873, never was a gratuity. By the act of 1866 the legislature invited contracts with the city for grading and paving,
offering to the contractors the security of assessments upon the
owners of property abutting on the improved streets. No doubt
it supposed it had the power to give such security or such a
remedy to the contractor. No doubt both the city and the
contractor thought such a power existed. It turned out that
they were all mistaken. The contractor, by this mutual mistake, was led into the expenditure of much labor and money,
and the city enjoyed the benefit of the expenditure. The
security promised for reimbursement to him having failed, the
legislature and the city having held forth unfounded expectations to him, by which he was induced to enter into the contract,
there was the highest moral obligation resting alike upon the
State and upon the city to provide a substitute for the remedy
which had proved to be of no value. This substitute was provided by the act of 1873. It was merely adding a legal to a
moral obligation. It should not be considered a mere gratuity.
It took the place of a resort to abutting lot-owners, and if the
contractor could not have been deprived of that, had it been
authorized by the Constitution, the thing substituted for it
should, in justice and common honesty, be regarded as equally

MEMPHIS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

secure for his indemnity. But if we are in error in this, it
is still enough that by his judgment and his writ of mandamus
he acquired a vested right to have the tax collected which the
writ ordered.
The Code of Tennessee, sect. 49, declaratory of the law of
the State respecting the effect of repealing statutes, is as follows: "The repeal of a statute does not affect any right which
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the statute repealed."
Thus has been established a rule for the construction of repealing statutes. If now the rule be applied to the act of March
23, 1875, it is manifest that act did not affect any right that
had before its passage accrued to Brown, the relator, under or
by virtue of it, or any proceeding commenced by him under it.
But certainly under his judgment recovered in 1875 he had a
right to have a tax levied sufficient to pay it, so long as the act
of 1873 remained in force, and he had the right in virtue of that
act. So when the alternative mandamus was issued, March 22,
1875, a proceeding was commenced under or by virtue of the
statute. And if the repealing act affected that proceeding, or
took away the right the relator had in force of his judgment, it
was retrospective in its operation, and it was therefore prohibited by the Constitution. In Fisher'sNegroes v. Dabbs (6 Yerg.
(Tenn.) 119) it was said by the court that "a distinction between
the right and the remedy is made and exists. But where the
remedy has attached itself to the right, and is being prosecuted
by due course of law, to separate between them and take away
the remedy is to do violence to the right, and comes within the
reason of that provision of our Constitution which prohibits
retrospective, or, in other words, retroactive, laws from being
passed, or laws impairing the obligation of contracts." 'ide
Bichardson v. The State, 3 Coldw. (Tenn.) 122.
For these reasons we think that, so far as relates to the case
of Brown, the relator, the act of March 18, 1873, remains in
force, and that the city of Memphis has power under that act to
levy and collect the tax which was directed by the mandamus.
The remaining questions in the case are of minor importance.
It is said there was error in adjudging that the tax to be levied
should be payable only in lawful money of the United States.

Oct. 1877.]

8MEMPHIS v. UNITED STATES.

We do not perceive in this any error. The judgment of the
relator could be paid only with such money; and the tax ordered
was to be sufficient in amount, after making due allowances for all
delinquencies, insolvencies, and defaults, &c., to realize $125,000
each year for the years 1875, 1876, respectively, and as much
of said sum for the remaining year (1877) as may be required
to pay and satisfy the balance of the decree in favor of the
relator, with interest and costs, not satisfied by former taxes
collected and paid. The meaning of the writ is, that sufficient
money shall be collected. If the city elect to credit in payment
of the levy what the lot-owners have paid, the mandamus does
not forbid it; but a sufficient levy must be made and collected
to raise in money the sums ordered to be paid in satisfaction of
the decree in favor of the relator. This was plainly right.
The only other assignment worthy of notice is, that there was
error in holding that a new and further tax be laid, sufficient
to pay the entire decree for $292,133.47, the return to the
alternative writ disclosing that under a former mandate of
the court the city of Memphis had made a special levy of
$302,742.69, for the purpose of paying the relator's decree; that
of sai~l levy $132,742.69 had been collected and paid to the
relator, and that the remainder, $170,000, was being collected
and paid over as fast as possible.
This assignment is manifestly evasive. The former mandate
was not for the satisfaction of the decree of March, 1875. But
if it was, it would make no difference. It is the most the
city can ask, that it be assumed the former mandate had been
obeyed, and that all had been collected that could be collected
under the levy. What has not been, therefore, cannot aid in
satisfying the decree, and it is not averred that any part of the
$170,000 can be. Notwithstanding the mandamus, it is in the
power of the city to relieve herself from its binding force by paying the debt due the relator. If she can collect any thing by
virtue of past levies, to the extent of the collection she will
be relieved from levying additional taxes, but the debt must
Judgment affirmed.
be paid.

