Oct. 1877.]

MARTIN V. MARKS.

they were selling; that the Emigrant Company, on the other
hand, were well informed in regard to both, and withheld this
information unfairly from the officers of the county; that the
sudden change of the relationship of Savary from an unsuccessful agent of the county to a successful agent of the company
requires an explanation which has not been satisfactorily given;
that the fact that all parties knew they were dealing with a
trust fund devoted by the donor to a specific purpose demanded
the utmost good faith on the part of the purchaser; that so
far from this, there is a provision for a diversion of the fund
to other purposes, a gross inadequacy of consideration, and
a successful speculation at the expense of the rights of the
public.
For these reasons we concur with the Circuit Court that the
contract should be rescinded, and that, saving the right of
intermediate purchasers, there should be an accounting and a
reconveyance, so far as may be.
Decree affrmed.

MR. CHI F JUSTICE WAITE and MR. JUSTI E STRONG dissented.

MARTIN v. MARKS.
1. The act of March 3, 1857 (11 Stat. 251), confirmed to the several States their
selections of swamp lands, which had then been reported to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, so far as the lands were then "vacant
and unappropriated, and not interfered with by an actual settlement" under
existing laws.
2. The selections so confirmed could not be set aside, nor could titles to any of
the land which they embraced, unless it came within the exceptions mentioned in that act, be thereafter conveyed by the United States to parties
claiming adversely to the swamp-land grant.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Air. Edward . Ingersoll and Mr. F. P. Cupjpy for the plaintiff
in error.

3ir. Thomas . -Durantand Mr. C. W. iornor,contra.

[Sup. Ct.

MARTIN V. MARKS.

IR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action in the nature of ejeetment, brought by
Marks, the plaintiff below, who asserted title under the swampland act of Sept. 28, 1850, and the earlier act of March 2, 1849,
in regard to the same class of lands in the State of Louisiana.
The defendant relied on a patent from the United States, dated
May 20, 1873. The evidence of plaintiff's title under the act
of 1850, which is all we shall now consider, is as follows :
"1NORTH-WESTERN DISTRICT, LA.

"A. -List of swamp land unfit for cultivation, selected as inuring
to the State of Louisiana under the provisions of an act of
Congress approved 28th September, 1850, excepting such as are
rightfully claimed or owned by individuals.
"To. 20 N., R. 14 W., west side of Red River.
Parts of section.

Section.

Area.

Estimated

Remarks.

area.
640.00
7
All of .........................................
"SURvEYOR-GENERAi2S

"DONALDSONviLL,

"Examined and approved. (Sig.)

OFFIcE,
LA., Mlay

18, 1852.

"R. W. BOYn,
"S urveyor -General, La."

To this was attached a certificate of S. S. Burdett, Commissioner of the General Land-Office, dated Department of the
Interior, General Land-Office, April 30, 1875, that the foregoing was truly copied from a list of the swamp lands returned
to that office by the surveyor-general of Louisiana. This was
followed by sufficient evidence of title under the State of
Louisiana. Neither this certificate nor any thing in the record
shows precisely when this list was filed in the General LandOffice at Washington.
In Emigrant Company v. County of Wright (supra, p. 389)
we had occasion to comment on the failure of the Secretary of
the Interior to make out and certify to the States lists of the
swamp lands to which they were severally entitled, and the

Oct. 1 877.]

MARTIN V. MARKS.

expedients to which they were compelled to resort to obtain
the evidence of their title to those lands. We also held in
previous cases that, when this was ascertained and the lands
were identified by proper authority, the title related to the
date of the grant, namely, Sept. 28, 1850, and superseded any
subsequent grant or evidence of title issuing from the United
States. fairoad Comp~any v. Smith, 9 Wall. 95; French v.
Pyan et al., 93 U. S. 169.
The above certificate of what took place in the office of the
surveyor-general shows what was the course adopted in Louisiana to secure the identification and lists of swamp lands in that
State, and a similar course was elsewhere pursued. But these
selections, though approved by the surveyor-general, who was
merely a local officer, still lacked the authentication of the
Secretary of the Interior, to whom alone Congress had confided
the duty of confirming them, or making them for himself.
It will be observed that the selection in the present case was
approved by the surveyor-general in May, 1852. It seems that,
seven years after the passage of the swamp-land grant, this
failure of the Secretary to act had become a grievance, for
which Congress deemed it necessary to provide a remedy, by
the act of March 3, 1857 (11 Stat. 251), which declares that the
selection of swamp and overflowed lands granted to the States
by the act of 1850, heretofore made and reported to the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, so far as the same shall
remain vacant and unappropriated, and not interfered with by
an actual settlement under any existing law of the United
States, be and the same are hereby confirmed, and shall be
approved and patented to the States in conformity to the provisions of said act.
If the paper signed by the surveyor-general, dated May 18,
1852, was on file in the General Land-Office at Washington,
March 3, 1857, we have no doubt that the act completed and
made perfect the title of the State of Louisiana to the land in
controversy. If this were so, the title of the plaintiff below
was superior to the patent issued subsequently to the defendant; for after the passage of that act the Land Department had
no right to set aside the selections. The approval of them
and the issue of patents to the State were mere ministerial acts,

MARSH V. SEYMOUR.

[Sup. Ct.

in regard to -which that department had no discretion, unless
it was found that the lands were not vacant, or had been
actually settled on adversely to the swamp-land claim. The act
of 1850 was a present grant, subject to identification of the specific parcels coming within the description; and the selections
confirmed by the act of 1857 furnished this identification, and
perfected the title.
But, as we have said, there is in the record no conclusive
evidence that this selection was on file in the General LandOffice at the passage of the act. It had been filed with and
approved by the surveyor-general in Louisiana in 1852, and
was found in that office when a copy was applied for in 1875.
If objection bad been taken to this defect of proof on the trial,
the plaintiff would probably have been required to show when
this list was reported to the commissioner. But no such objection -was then made. Sitting here as an appellate court,
two removes from that which tried the case originally, we hold:
1, that the jury or the court, if the latter tried the issue of fact,
had a right to presume that the surveyor-general did his duty,
and forwarded this list to the General Land-Office some time
between May, 1852, and March 3, 1857; and, 2, that this question of evidence is not of that Federal character which author.
izes us to review the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
upon it.
Judgment affirmed.

MARSHI v.

SAM1

V.

SEYMOUR.

SAME.

1. The court concurs with the court below that reissued letters-patent No. 72,
dated May 7, 1861, and No. 1683, dated May 31, 1864, for new and useful
improvements in reaping-machines, and reissued letters No. 1682, dated May

31,1864, for a new and useful improvement in harvesters, all of which were
granted to William H. Seymour and others, are valid, and that they have

been infringed by the respondents.
2. Seymour v. Osborne (11 Wall. 516) cited, and commented on.
8. Compensatory damages for the infringement of letters-patent may be allowed
in equity, although the business of the infringer was so improvidently con.
ducted as to yield no substantial profits.

