Oct. 1878.]

WELCH V. COOK.

WELCH V. COOK.
1 The act of the legislative assembly of the District of Columbia of June 26,
1873, exempting from general taxes for ten years thereafter such real
and personal property as might be actually employed within said District
for manufacturing purposes, provided its value should not be less than
85,000, did not create an irrepealable contract with the owners of such
property, but merely conferred a bounty liable at any time to be withdrawn.
2. Congress, by the act of June 20, 1874 (18 Stat. 117), which superseded the
then existing government of the District, declared that for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1875, there should "be levied on all real estate in said
District, except that belonging to the United States and to the District of
Columbia, and that used for educational and charitable purposes," certain
specified taxes. Hdd, that under said act real property used for manufacturing purposes, although within the exemption granted by the act of the
legislative assembly, became subject to taxation.

from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the 26th of June, 1873, the legislative assembly of the
District of Columbia enacted that "all property, real and personal, which may hereafter be actually employed within the
limits of the District of Columbia for manufacturing purposes,
shall be exempt from all general taxes for a period of ten years
from the date of this act going into effect: Provided,that the
value of the property so employed for manufacturing purposes
shall not be less than $5,000." Laws Dist. of Col. 126.
The fourth section of the act of Congress approved June 20,
1874 (18 Stat. 117), enacts as follows: APPEAL

"That for the support of the government of the District of
Columbia, and maintaining the credit thereof, for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1875, there shall be levied on all real estate in said
District, except that belonging to the United States and to the
District of Columbia, and that used for educational and charitable
purposes, the following taxes, namely."
Under this act the commissioners of the District assessed, for
the taxes for the year ending June, 1875, certain real property
of Welch within the District, which was employed for manufacturing purposes, and was of the value of $5,000.
His bill of complaint alleges that on the faith of the above

WELCH V. COOK.

[Sup. Ct.

act of the legislative assembly he expended large sums of
money in improving his said property; that, in pursuance of
the said act, the commissioners exempted it from the taxes
of the year ending June, 1874, but are now about to sell it
for the taxes of 1875, and that these proceedings cast a cloud
upon his title. He asks for a perpetual injunction to restrain
the collection of these taxes, and for such other relief as may
be necessary.
To this bill the defendants, who are the tax-collector and
the commissioners of the District, demurred. The demurrer
was sustained at the special term of the Supreme Court of the
District, which action having been affirmed at the genera] term,
Welch appealed to this court.
ilr. Philip Phillips and Hr. William A. Maury for the
appellant.
Mr. Albert G. Biddle, contra.
MAR. JUSTICE HUNT, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is not open to reasonable doubt that Congress had power
to invest, and did invest, the District government with legislative
authority, or that the act of the legislative assembly of June
26, 1873, was within that authority. We shall therefore consider the question as if that act exempting manufacturing
property from taxation had been passed directly by Congress.
It does not create a contract in the sense that it cannot be
repealed. It has been frequently held that the incorporation
of a company by special charter, with the exemption of its
lands or other property from taxation, creates, upon the acceptance of the charter, a contract which will insure that exemption
during the period specified. But the present case does not
come within that rule. This -is a bounty law, which is good
as long as it remains iinrepealed; but there is no pledge that it
shall not be repealed at any time. Salt Company v. East Saginaw, 13 Wall. 373.
,The counsel for the appellant correctly states the question as
this: Has the act of the legislative assembly of June, 1873,
been repealed or suspended by the act of Cong~ess of June 20,
1874?

Oct. 1878.]

WELOH V. COOK.

It is also correctly stated, as a legal proposition, that a
second law on the same subject does not, without a repealing
clause or negative words, repeal a former one, unless its provisions are so clearly repugnant as to imply a negative. Beals
v. Hale, 4 How. 37 ; -Ez parte Yerger, 8 Wall. 85.
We are, however, of the opinion that we cannot do otherwise
than hold that this case was correctly decided; that is, that by
the more recent act it was intended to subject to taxation all
the real property in the District, except such as was specifically
exempted.
We are to presume that Congress knew that, as the law stood
on the 20th of June, 1874, the property in the District was
liable to taxation, with certain exceptions, and that it knew of
what such exceptions consisted. We are also to presume that
it appreciated the effect of its action when it took upon itself
anew, and in derogation of the local authorities, the duty of
fixing the subjects of taxation; and that it knew that the result
of declaring all the property, with certain exceptions, to be liable
to the payment of taxes for the year ending June, 1875, was
to make that act stand in the place of all others upon the
subject.
The exemption of manufacturing property, as we have shown,
was a bounty merely revocable at any time by the legislature.
The year following this expression of its bounty, in passing an
act to obtain means "for the support of the government and
maintaining the credit thereof," it enacts that "there shall be
levied on all real estate in said District . . . the following taxes,
namely." This general language was not used unadvisedly,
without a present remembrance that there were certain kinds
of property not intended to be included, but which would be so
included unless particularly noticed. Therefore it was added,
"except that belonging to the United States and to the District of Columbia, and that used for educational and charitable
purposes." The bounty of the government previously extended
to property used for the purposes of education, and in dispensing its charities to the poor, the insane, the destitute orphan,
the aged and infirm, was still continued. Its bounty of exemption, before given to those engaged in manufactures and employing at least e5,000 therein, did not present the same

WELCH V. CooK.

[Sup. Or.

sentimental question to the legislator. ,He may well have
thought it a wise charity, a merciful duty, to relieve the one,
and to allow the others to bear the ordinary burdens of property engaged in traffic or manufacture, and used for the purpose
of gain.
The exemptions set forth in the act of Congress of March 3,
1875 (18 Stat. 503), are more in detail, but of the same character with those of 1874, and indicate a persistent intention in
Congress to include manufacturing property as a proper subject
of taxation.
But it is to be observed that the act of June 20, 1874, is the
act of a different body from that which adopted the act of 1873,
and is a part of an act of Congress organizing a new and
entirely different system of government. Id. 116, 117.
The first section of the act of 1874 provides that all the general offices of the District then existing, except that of delegate
in Congress, shall be abolished, the office of delegate in Congress continuing until the end of the existing term. The
government, then carried on by an executive, a secretary, a
legislature, and a board of public works, is superseded by a
commission of three persons (appointed by the President),
whose powers and duties are strictly prescribed. The rules
respecting the collection of taxes then assessed, including a prohibition (by sale or hypothecation) of an anticipation thereof,
are laid down, and the compensation of all officers, except
teachers in public schools, is reduced twenty per cent per
annum. Certain duties theretofore under the control of the
board of public works are vested in an officer of the army, to
be detailed by the President, under the supervision of the commissioners. In its fourth section it then proceeds to direct the
levy of a tax of three dollars for each one hundred dollars of
the assessed value of all the real estate in the city of Washington, and two dollars and fifty cents upon that situate in the
city of Georgetown, except that belonging to the United States
or the District of Columbia, and that used for educational and
charitable purposes.
Under these circumstances, and prefaced as was the act by
the recital that this levy was made to support the government
and maintain its credit, it is apparent that the act of Congress

Oct. 1878.]

WELCH V. OoK.

was intended to create a separate system, and to be indepepdent
of the action of all preceding bodies. Other and different
exemptions had before existed; no settled system had been
adopted. The act of the legislative assembly of 1871, fixing
the taxes for that year, gave more than forty exemptions in
great detail, covering an entire page in the statute-book (p. 26) ;
that of the same body, fixing the taxes for 1872, exempted only
parsonages, churches, the ground on which they stood, and
burial-grounds (p. 109) ; here it is declared that all real estate
shall be taxed, except that herein specifically exempted. We
think that the system in regard to taxation, including what
should be taxed, the rates, and the exemptions from taxation,
was intended to be an independent one, to abolish existing
impositions or exemptions, and to form a complete system of
itself.
Nor are we able to see that this action involves a breach of
faith towards the owner of the manufacturing property. Conceding, as the plaintiff must and does, that the exemption of
his property was of the bounty of the legislature, he knew when
he accepted it that it was liable to be revoked whenever either
the local legislature or Congress should be of the opinion that
the public interests demanded such action. He could not but
realize that an assessment of three per cent upon the value of
property in Washington, or two and a half per cent upon that
in Georgetown, created a heavy burden. Others felt it as he
did, and it is reasonable to suppose that Congress considered it
a duty to lighten the burden of taxation, by increasing the
subjects of it, as far as justice required.
Upon the whole case, we are of the opinion that the decree
of the court below was correct.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE Frnrn dissented.

vOL. VII.

