Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

CO. V. HARRIS.

INSURANCE CotP&&Y v. HARRis.
Assumpsit against an insurance company upon a life policy. Plea, non assumpsit,
with an agreement that either party might introduce any matter in evidence
which would be legally admissible if it had been specially pleaded. Leave
was subsequently granted the defendant to file a plea of puis darrein continuance. There was also an agreement which provided for the admission of the
record of a suit in equity then pending in the Supreme Court of New Yorl,
whereto the parties hereto, and others claiming the benefit of the policy, were
parties, and stipulated that any further proceedings therein might be filed
as a part of the agreement at any time before the trial of this action. A
decree was rendered by said court November 26, that the company pay the full
amount of the policy to the credit of the suit, for the benefit of such of the
other parties as should be found to be thereunto entitled, and that upon such
payment the company be released and discharged from further liability on said
policy, and that the several claimants be enjoined from suing thereon. The
amount was thereupon forthwith paid into court. On the 25th of November
the plaintiff stated his case, whereupon the hearing was postponed until the
29th of that month, when the defendant, no evidence having as yet been
submitted, filed with the clerk of the court a duly certified transcript of said
decree. On the trial, leave was refused the defendant to set up the matter of
that suit and decree by way of plea, or put it in evidence, under the agreement. Held, that the decree was a final determination of the claim of the
plaintiff below, and should have been admitted as matter of evidence, having
the same force and effect in a court of the United States as in the courts of
New York.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
On the 9th of September, 1872, two actions were brought by
the assignee of William H. Brune, against The Mutual Life
Insurance Company of New York, on two policies issued by it
in January of that year, in the name of said Brune, on the life
of John S. Barry. Barry died in March, 1872. By consent,
the actions were consolidated and tried together. The defendant pleaded the general issue; and the parties agreed that either
of them might offer in evidence any matter that would be
admissible if it bad been specially pleaded, and leave was subsequently granted the defendant to file a plea of puis darrein
continuance. There was also an agreement which provided for
the admission of certain papers and records, and stipulated that
any further proceedings in a then pending suit, commenced
April 4, 1872, in the Supreme Court for the city and county of

832

INSURANCE CO. V. HARMIS.

[Sup. Ct.

New York, by Rosalie C. Barry, widow of said John, against
said company, said Brune and his assignee, which either party
should deem material, might be filed as a part of the agreement,
at any time before the trial. The matter involved in that suit,
and the decree which was rendered therein by the said court
Nov. 26, 1873, are set out in the opinion of this court.
The issue was, by stipulation, submitted for trial to the court.
On the 25th of November the plaintiff below stated his case; but,
before any evidence was given, further action in the premises
was postponed until the 29th of that month, when the defendant, before the plaintiff had submitted any evidence, filed
with the clerk of the court a duly certified transcript of said
decree.
On the trial, the defendant asked leave to set up the matter
of that suit and decree by way of plea, or put it in evidence,
under the agreement; but the court refused the leave, and the
defendant excepted.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the
amount of the policies; and the defendant sued out this writ,
and assigned for error that the court below erred: 1, in its
refusal to grant the leave asked for; and, 2, in rendering judgment for the plaintiff upon the agreed statement of facts.
Whitridge, the original assignee, having died, Harris, the
defendant in error, was substituted in his stead.
.Mr. Edward Otis Hinkley and 11r. Henry -. Davies for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. MVorrison Harrisand Mr. F. W. Brune, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The first assignment of error is that the Circuit Court refused to allow the matter of the decree of interpleader in the
New York case, which is mentioned at the end of the first
bill of exceptions, to be set up in any manner, either by way
of plea or in evidence. To understand this assignment, it is
necessaiy to observe carefully *hat the New York case was.
It was a bill filed on the 4th of April, 1872, in the Supreme
Court of New York, wherein Rosalie C. Barry was complainant,
and The Mutual Life Insurance Company, together with William H. Brune and Horatio L. Whitridge, were defendants.
AIR. JUSTICE STRONG

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

HARRIS.

The bill averied, in substance and effect, that two policies of
insurance, one for $20,000 and the other for $5,000, on the life
of John S. Barry, the complainant's husband, dated Jan. 18,
1872, issued by the insurance company to Brume, belonged in
equity to her; that they were substitutes for or continuations
of policies the company had previously issued to her, upon
which she had paid the premiums for a number of years, and
which, by the compulsion and misrepresentations of her husband, she had been induced to assign to Brune without any
consideration,' that afterwards Brune arranged to have the
policies surrendered, and those of Jan. 18, 1872 (which are the
same as those upon which the present suit has been brought),
issued to him in lieu of the surrendered ones; that this arrangement was carried out; that the new policies were issued bearing
the same numbers as those of the old, calling for the same premiums, insuring the same amounts; that no consideration was
paid for them other than the surrender; that the premiums
were paid as of the times when they were due on the surrendered policies; that such payment was made principally by the
application on account thereof, without her knowledge or consent, of the cash value of the dividends to which she was entitled
in virtue of the former policies issued to her, and with which
she had been credited by the company. The bill also charged
that Brune paid in money only the difference between such
cash value of her dividends and the aggregate amount of the
annual premiums, and that the cash was furnished to him, at
his request, by the complainant's husband, on her account.
The prayers of the bill were that the insurers should be enjoined
against making any payment of such insurance to Brune or to
Whitridge (who claimed some right as assignee of Brune), and
that payment to her should be decreed. She also prayed that
it might be adjudged she had not parted with or been divested
of her rights under said policies, and that the defendants,
Brune and Whitridge, might be decreed to have acquired no
right or interest therein.
On the 27th of June next following, Brune filed an answer,
and at the same time Whitridge also answered. In neither
answer was there a denial of most of the averments of the bill.
Brune denied that Mrs. Barry's assignments were involun-

INSURANCE

Co. v.

HARRIS.

[Sup. Or.

tary, and claimed that the first policies were taken by him as
collateral securities for loans which he had made to her husband; that if the assignments were improperly made, it was
without his knowledge or belief; asserted that he had assigned
the substituted policies to Whitridge, and insisted that the
court should decree a dismissal of the complainant's bill, and
should give judgment in favor of Whitridge's right to collect
the sums due under the policies. The answer of Whitridge
was similar in substance.
Subsequently the company put in an answer td Mrs. Barry's
bill, accompanying it with a petition for an interpleader. The
answer conceded the company's liability to pay the sums due
upon the policies (those issued to Brune, and the same as those
in suit in the present case); averred readiness to pay to the
person or persons lawfully entitled to receive payment, and to
whom payment could be made with safety; and offered to pay
into court. The petition prayed that the company might be
permitted thus to pay; that thereupon it might be discharged;
and that Brune, Whitridge, and Mrs. Barry might be ordered
to interplead.
The case in the Supreme Court of New York, therefore,
though not strictly a bill of interpleader, was in effect that, and
more. It was in the nature of such a bill, and was, under the
practice of that State, a proper proceeding to determine the
rights of the parties. Badeau v. Rogers, 2 Paige (N. Y.), 209.
Brune and Whitridge, as well as Mrs. Barry and the company,
were parties to it, and all of them appeared and pleaded. The
court thus had complete jurisdiction alike of the insuring
company, of Whitridge, Brune, and Mrs. Barry, the persons
claiming as assured by the policies, and also of the subject,the liability of the company to the claimants.
On the twenty-sixth day of November, 1873, a decree was
entered in the case, which was a final determination of the
rights of Whitridge, Brune, and Mrs. Barry, or either of them,
as against the company. So far as it is necessary to refer to
it, it was as follows: "It is further ordered that the defendants, The Mutual Life
Insurance Company, within three days next hereafter, deposit
the residue of said $25,000 with the United States Trust Corn-

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. V. HARRIS.

pany of New York, to the credit of this action, for the benefit
of the plaintiff, or either of the other defendants herein who
shall be found to be entitled thereto, and that said defendants,
The Mutual Life Insurance Company, so depositing said amount
with said trust company to the credit of this action, be dismissed
from the further defence of this action, and thereupon be released, acquitted, and discharged from all claims or liabilities to
the said Rosalie C. Barry, plaintiff, and William H. Brune and
Horatio L. Whitridge, defendants herein, or any or either of
them, for, upon, or by reason of the said sum of $25,000, or upon
said policies of insurance, on the payment of said amount, less
said adjusted costs as aforesaid, to the said The United States
Trust Company of New York."
It was further ordered that the several claimants be enjoined
from bringing any other action or proceedings against the defendant, The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York,
upon the said policies of insurance; and the claimants were
also ordered to interplead upon the pleadings already interposed.
On the same day the insurance company paid to the United
States Trust Company, to the credit of the action, as ordered,
the amount of the policies.
It was this judgment of the New York Supreme Court which
the plaintiffs in error offered to plead at the trial in the Circuit
Court puis darrein continuance, and also offered to give in
evidence, under an agreement between the parties, and, still
further, independently of any agreement. But the court refused to allow it to be pleaded, or to be given in evidence; and
this refusal is assigned as error.
The argument submitted to us has taken a very wide range.
Much has been said which, in our opinion, has no bearing upon
the exact question before us. It may be admitted that the
pendency of an action between the same parties and for the
same cause, in a foreign jurisdiction, is pleadable only in abatement. So it may be admitted that even a plea in bar, puis
darrein continuance, cannot be received without verification.
But the question here is, whether a final judgment determining
the rights of the parties against each other, made by a court
having jurisdiction both of the parties and of the subject of

INSURANCE CO. V. HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

controversy, was admissible, either as evidence under the general issue in assumpsit, or when specially pleaded, or in consequence of any .agreement made. The decree made by the
Supreme Court of New York, if admissible, was certainly material. It will not be denied that its effect was the creation of
a complete bar against the recovery of any other judgment in
that State on these policies of insurance, against the plaintiff
in error. The claim of Brune or Whitridge became merged
in the judgment of that court. It is perfectly immaterial
whether the New York court first obtained jurisdiction of the
subject and the parties, as in fact it did. When the final judgment was rendered it closed the controversy, and after that the
person assured by the policies could not have maintained a suit
on them in that State, in the same or any other court; and if
not, he cannot now in any other State of the Union. This is
settled by the act of Congress of May 26, 1790, which declares
that the records and judicial proceedings of the courts of any
State, when authenticated, shall have such faith and credit
given them in every court within the United States as they
have by law or usage in the courts of the State from whence
they are taken. The meaning of this is, that when a judgment
or decree has been given in one State by a court having jurisdiction of the parties and the subject, it has the same force and
effect when pleaded or offered in evidence in the courts of any
other State. HAfills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch, 481; llayhew v.
Thatcher, 6 Wheat. 129; Habich v. Folger, 20 Wall. 1; Burnley v. Stephenson, 24 Ohio, 474; Dobson v. Pearoe, 12 N. Y.
156.
If, then, the record of the decrees of the New York court
was pertinent to the issue in the case in the Circuit Court, as
we have seen it was, and was material, why should it not have
been received? There was nothing in the pleadings, nor in
the agreement of the parties, we think, that stood in the way
of its admission. The defendant below, now plaintiff in error,
had pleaded the general issue, and, under that in assumpsit, a
judgment recovered may be given in evidence. 2 Stra. 733;
1 Saund. Williams's notes, 67 a; Stafford v. Clark, 2 Bing. 377 ;
Young v. Black, 7 Cranch, 565. And if this were not the general rule, there was an agreement of the parties filed in the

Oct. 187T.]

INSURANCE CO. v. HARRIS.

case, by which it was stipulated that either party might offer
in evidence, under the general issue, any matter admissible, as
if specially pleaded. Of course, this agreement did not mean
that an offer of evidence might be made that could have no
legitimate bearing upon a proper decision of the case, and that
such evidence should be received. But it did mean that whatever would be admissible under any plea should, if offered, be
received under the plea of non assumpsit.
This, however, was not all. The parties entered into another
agreement, that the two causes (viz. suits on the two policies)
should be consolidated; that a special plea before filed by the
defendant should be waived; that either party should have
leave to offer in evidence any matter admissible, as if specially
pleaded; and that certain facts, papers, and records were admitted and agreed to, for the purpose of taking the court's
opinion in the case as to the plaintiff's right to maintain the
action. Among the papers and records was the record of the
case in the Supreme Court of New York, including the original
petition of Mrs. Barry, and subsequent proceedings, together
with the answer of the company and the petition for an interpleader. This agreement was made on the 18th of November,
1873, before the decree discharging the defendants was entered
in the New York court. But the tenth clause provided for the
use of any subsequent action in that case. It was as follows: "10tb. And the said case, wherein Rosalie C. Barry is plaintiff,
and The Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York and William
H. Brune and Horatio L. Whitridge are defendants, is still pending
in New York, and if there should be any further proceedings therein
which either party may think material, they may be filed as part
of this agreement at any time before the trial of this case'
The decree of the New York court -was a further proceeding
in that case, and by the agreement it was stipulated that it
might be filed and submitted to the court as an agreed fact in
the case. It is true the agreement allowed filing at any time
before the trial, and the case was called for trial on the 25th of
November, 1873. On that day, after the plaintiff had stated
his case, but before any evidence was read, the further hearing
was postponed until November 29; and on the 29th, before any
VOL. VI.

22

INSURANCE

Co. v.

HARRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

evidence was read, the copy of the final order and decree made
on the 26th of November by the Supreme Court of New York
was filed with the clerk of the Circuit Court. It is now contended that it was filed too late. We do not think so, though
the learned judge of the Circuit Court said he would consider the
trial as having begun on the 25th. Technically, it may be
the trial commenced on that day, but it advanced then only to
an oral statement of what was submitted for trial. All the
evidence was given after the record was filed. The substantial
trial was afterwards. The agreement between the parties
should not have been construed technically, but rather in accordance -with its spirit and in furtherance of justice.
And if the filing, when it was filed, of the final decree of the
New York court as a part of -the agreed facts was not allowed
by the tenth clause of the agreement of November 18, the
decree was still admissible in evidence. That agreement stipulated that either party might offer in evidence any matter
admissible as if specially pleaded. It did not require the court
to enter judgment upon the admitted facts alone.
It is argued by the defendant in error that the decree rejected
by the court was not filed, and that the offer of the plaintiff in
error was only to show a lis pendens. It is true the record did
not show that the interpleading between Mrs. Barry and Brune
and Whitridge had terminated. But the decree was a final
determination of the claim of all and each of them against the
defendant in the present case, upon the policies now in suit.
The claim against the company is no longer open to litigation.
Upon the whole, therefore, we conclude that the first assignment of error must be sustained, and what we have said renders
it unnecessary to remark upon the second.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
record remitted for a new trial; and it is
So ordered.

