KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ot.

Forbes, 23 Ill. 301; Deal v. Palmer, 72 N. C. 582; TWalmsley
v. Milne, 7 C. B. N. s. 115; Powell v. Manufacturing Company,
3 Mas. 459; Trull v. Fuller, 28 Me. 545; Corliss v. 3lcEagin,
29 id. 115; iAf Kini v. Mason, 3 Md. Ch. 187; Winslow v. Merchants' Insurance Co., 4 Mete. (Mass.) 306.
Decree affirmed.

KEITH V. CLARK.
1. Where a case has been decided in an inferior court of a State on a single point
which would give this court jurisdiction, it will not be presumed here that
the Supreme Court of the State decided it on some other ground not found
in the record or suggested in the latter court.
2. The State of Tennessee having, in 1838, organized the Bank of Tennessee,
agreed, by a clause in the charter, to receive all its issues of circulating notes
in payment of taxes; but, by a constitutional amendment adopted in 1865,
it declared the issues of the bank during the insurrectionary period void,
and forbade their receipt for taxes. Held, that the amendment was in
conflict with the provision of the Constitution of the United States against
impairing the obligation of contracts.
3. There is no evidence in this record that the notes offered in payment of taxes
by the plaintiff were issued in aid of the rebellion, or on any consideration
forbidden by the Constitution or the laws of the United States; and no such
presumption arises from any thing of which this court can take judicial
notice.
4. The political society which, in 1796, was organized and admitted into the
Union by the name of Tennessee, has to this time remained the same body
politic. Its attempt to separate itself from that Union did not destroy its
identity as a State, nor free it from the binding force of the Constitution of
the United States.
6. Being the same political organization during the rebellion, and since, that it
was before, - an organization essential to the existence of society,- all its
acts, legislative and otherwise, during the period of the rebellion are valid
and obligatory on the State now, except where they were done in aid of
that rebellion, or are in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the United
States, or were intended to impeach its authority.
6 If the notes which were the foundation of this suit had been issued on a consideration which would make them void for any of the reasons mentioned,
it is for the party asserting their invalidity to set up and prove the facts
on which such a plea is founded.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the courL.
Mr. Philip Phillipsand Mr. George Hoadly for the plaintiff
in error.
Mr. J B. Heiskell, contra.

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

MIt. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, who was plaintiff below, sued the
defendant for the sum of $40, which he had paid in lawful
money under protest for taxes due the State of Tennessee, after
he had tendered to the defendant that sum in the circulating
notes of the Bank of Tennessee, which defendant refused to
receive.
The suit was commenced before a justice of the peace, taken
by appeal to the Common-Law Chancery Court of Madison
County, and from there to the Supreme Court of Tennessee,
and by writ of error from this court it is now before us for
review.
In all the trials in the State courts, judgment was rendered
against the plaintiff. The jurisdiction of this court is denied
again, though it was affirmed in the analogous cases of Woodruff
v. Trapnall,10 How. 190, and Furmanv. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44.
As the same facts are involved in the question of jurisdiction
and the issue on the merits, it may be as well to state them.
They appear in a bill of exceptions taken at the trial on the
first appeal, which was a trial de nobo before a jury. The
defendant was a collector of taxes, to whom plaintiff had
tendered $40 of the bills of the Bank of Tennessee, which,
with other lawful money tendered at the same time, was the
amount due. The offer of plaintiff was founded on the twelfth
section of the charter of the bank, enacted in 1838 by the
legislature of the State, which reads thus :"Be it enacted that the bills or. notes of the said corporation
originally made payable, or which shall have become payable on
demand, in gold or silver coin, shall be receivable at the treasury of
this State, and by all tax-collectors and other public officers, in all
payments for taxes or other moneys due to the State."
It was proved that the bills were issued subsequently to May
6,1861, and were known as the "Torbet or new issue," and
were worth in the brokers' market about twenty-five cents on
the dollar.
The court charged the jury that if the notes tendered were
issued subsequently to May 6, 1861, and during the existence of
the State government established at that date in hostility to

-KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

the government of the United States, then defendant was not
legally bound to receive them in payment of plaintiff's taxes.
And the reason given for this was, that while the Constitution
of the United States protected the contract of the section of
the charter we have cited from repudiation by State legislation
as to notes issued prior to the act of secession of May 6, 1861,
it conferred no such protection as to notes issued while the
State was an insurrectionary government; and that consequently the provisions of sect. 6 of the schedule to the constitutional amendment of 1865, which declared that all the
notes of the bank issued after the date above mentioned were
null and void, and forbade any legislature to pass laws for their
redemption, was a valid exercise of State authority. On this
instruction the jury found a verdict for the defendant.
In the Supreme Court the judgment rendered on this verdict
was affirmed, without any opinion or other evidence of the
grounds on which it was so affirmed.
There can be no question that the charge of the trial judge
to the jury decided against the plaintiff in error a question
which gives this court jurisdiction; and this is admitted by
counsel, who ask us to dismiss the writ of error.
The ground assumed in support of the motion is, that we
ought to presume that the Supreme Court did not decide the
question which the court below did, but affirmed the judgment,
on the ground that, by the laws of Tennessee, no suit could be
brought against the State or against the collector of taxes, and
that the justice of the peace who first tried the case, and the
court to which the appeal was taken, had no jurisdiction. It
would follow, say counsel, that as this was a question of State
law, it could not be reviewed in this court.
The answers to this are several and very obvious.
1. Where an appellate court decides a case on the ground
that the inferior court had no jurisdiction, it in some mode
indicates that it was -not a decision on the merits, to prevent
the judgment being used as a bar in some court which might
have jurisdiction. Barney v. Baltimore City, 6 Wall. 280;
House et al. v. Mullen, 22 id. 42; Kendig v. Dean, supra,p. 423.
2. In Tennessee v. Sneed (96 U. S. 69), this court decided
that the courts of Tennessee did have the jurisdiction which

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

this suggestion denies them; and we will not presume, without
very strong reason for it, that the Supreme Court of Tennessee
disagreed with this court on that point.
8. There is not the slightest evidence in the record, nor any
reason to be drawn from it, to believe that the court decided
any such question. It nowhere appears that it was raised.
Nothing like it is found in the bill of exceptions. There is no
plea to the jurisdiction, or motion to dismiss for want of it.
And we are bound by every fair rule of sound construction
to hold that the Supreme Court, in affirming the judgment of
the court below, did it on the only ground on which that court
acted, or which was raised by the record.
That question was, whether the twelfth section of the charter
of the bank constituted a contract which brought the issues of
the bank after the 6th of May, 1861, within the protective
clause of the Constitution of the United States against impairing the obligation of contracts by State laws. Of that
question this court has jurisdiction, and we proceed to its
consideration.
In Furman v. Nichol (supra), the twelfth section of the charter of the bank - the same now under consideration - was
held to constitute a contract between every holder of the circulating notes of the bank and the State of Tennessee, that the
State would receive the notes in payment of taxes at their par
value. And it was held that the same provision of the State
Constitution of 1865, which is relied on here, was void, as impairing the obligation of that contract.
The case of Woodruff v. Trapnal (supra) was referred to as
being perfect in its analogy, both in the character of the bank
and its relation to the State, and the contract to receive its notes
in payment of taxes. In Furman v. Niwol, however (which is
the identical case before us, except that in the former case the
notes were issued prior to May 6, 1861), the court, out of abundant caution, said, that it did not consider or decide any thing
as to the effect of the civil war on that contract, or to notes
issued subsequently to that date. We are invited now to examine that point, and to hold that as to all such notes the twelfth
section creates no valid contract.
In entering upon this inquiry we start with the proposition,

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

that unless there is something in the relation of the State of
Tennessee and the bank, after the date mentioned, to the government of the United States, or something in the circumstances under which the notes now sued on were issued, that will
repel the presumption of a contract under the twelfth section,
or will take the contract out of the operation of the protecting
clause of the Federal Constitution; this court has established
already that there was a valid contract to receive them for
taxes, and that the law which forbade this to be done is unconstitutional and void.
Those who assert the exception of these notes from the
general proposition are not very well agreed as to the reasons
on which it shall rest, and we must confess that, as they are
presented to us, they are somewhat vague and shadowy. They
may all, however, as far as we understand them, be classed
under three principal heads.
1. The first is to us an entirely new proposition, urged with
much earnestness by the counsel who argued the case orally
for the defendant.
It is, in substance, that what was called the State of Tennessee prior to the 6th of May, 1861, became, by the ordinance
of secession passed on that day, subdivided into two distinct
political entities, each of which was a State of Tennessee.
One of them was loyal to the Federal government, the other
was engaged in rebellion against it. One State was compdsed
of the minority whd did not favor secession, the other of the
majority who did. That these two States of Tennessee engaged in a public war against each other, to which all the
legal relations, rights, and obligations of a public war attached.
That the government of the United States was the ally of the
loyal State of Tennessee, and the confederated rebel States
were the allies of the disloyal State of Tennessee. That the
loyal State of Tennessee, with the aid of her ally, conquered
and subjugated the disloyal State of Tennessee, and by right
of coniquest imposed upon the latter such measure of punishment and such system of law as it chose,.and that by the law
of conquest it had the right to do this. That one of the laws
so imposed by the conquering State of Tennessee on the conquered State of Tennessee was this one, declaring that the

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

issues of the bank during the temporary control of affairs by
the rebellious State was to be held void; and that, as conqueror
and by right of conquest, the loyal State had power to enact
this as a valid law.
It is a sufficient answer to this fanciful theory that the
division of the State into two States never had any actual
existence ; that, as we shall show hereafter, there has never
been but one political society in existence as an organized
State of Tennessee, from the day of its admission to the Union
in 1796 to the present time. That it is a mere chimera to
assert that one State of Tennessee conquered by force of arms
another State of Tennessee, and imposed laws upon it; and,
finally, that the logical legerdemain by which the State goes
into rebellion, and makes, while thus situated, contracts for the
support of the government in its ordinary and usual functions,
which are necessary to the existence of social life, and then, by
reason of being conquered, repudiates these contracts, is as hard
to understand as similar physical performances on the stage.
2. The second proposition is a modification of this, and deserves more serious attention. It is, as we understand it, that
each of the eleven States who passed ordinances of secession
and joined the so-called Confederate States so far succeeded
in their attempt to separate themselves from the Federal government, that during the period in which the rebellion maintained its organization those States were in fact no longer a
part of the Union, or, if so, the individual States, by reason of
their rebellious attitude, were mere usurping powers, all of
whose acts of legislation or administration are void, except as
they are ratified by positive laws enacted since the restoration,
or are recognized as valid on the principles of comity or
sufferance.
We cannot agree to this doctrine. It is opposed by the inherent powers which attach to every organized political society
possessed of the right of self-government; it is opposed to the
recognized principles of public international law; and it is opposed to the well-co~isidered decisions of this court.
"Nations or States," says Vattel, "are bodies politic, societies
of men united together for the promotion of their mutual safety
and advantage by the joint efforts of their combined strength.

460

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

Such a society has her affairs and her interests. She deliberates and takes resolutions in common, thus becoming a moral
person who possesses an understanding and a will peculiar to
herself, and is susceptible of obligations and rights." Law of
Nations, sect. 1.
Cicero and subsequent public jurists define a State to be a
body political or society of men united together for the purpose of promoting their mutual safety and advantage by their
combined strength. Wheaton, International Law, sect. 17.
Such a body or society, when once organized as a State by an
established government, must remain so until it is destroyed.
This may be done by disintegration of its parts, by its absorption into and identification with some other State or nation, or
by the absolute and total dissolution of the ties which bind the
society together. We know of no other way in which it can
cease to be a State. No change of it§ internal polity, no modification of its organization or system of government, nor any
change in its external relations short of entire absorption in
another State, can deprive it of existence or destroy its identity.
Id., sect. 21
Let us illustrate this by two remarkable periods in the history
of England and France.
After the revolution in England, which dethroned and decapitated Charles I., and installed Cromvell as supreme, whom
his successors called a usurper; after the name of the government was changed from the Kingdom of England to the Commonwealth of England; and when, after all this, the son of the
beheaded monarch came to his own, treaties made in the interregnum were held valid, -the judgments of the courts were respected, and the obligations assumed by the government were
never disputed.
So of France. Her bloody revolution, which came near dissolving the bonds of society itself, her revolutionary directory,
her consul, her Emperor Napoleon, and all their official acts,
have been recognized by the nation, by the other nations of
Europe, and by the legitimate monarchy when restored, as the
acts of France, and binding on her people.
The political society which in 1796 became a State of the
Union,, by the name of the State of Tennessee, is the same

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

which is now represented as one of those States in the Congress
of the United States. Not only is it the same body politic now,
but it has always been the same. There has been perpetual
succession and perpetual identity.' There has from that time
always been a State of Tennessee, and the same State of Tennessee. Its executive, its legislative, its judicial departments
have continued without interruption and in regular order. It
has changed, modified, and reconstructed its organic law, or
State Constitution, more than once. It has done this before the
rebellion, during the rebellion, and since the rebellion. And
it was always done by the collective authority and in the name
of the same body of people constituting the. political society
known as the State of Tennessee.
This political body has not only been all this time a State,
and the same State, but it has always been one of the United
States, - a State of the Union. Under the Constitution of the
United States, by virtue of which Tennessee was born into the
family of States, she had no lawful power to depart from that
Union. The effort which she made to do so, if it had been
successful, would have been so in spite of the Constitution, by
reason of that force which in many other instances establishes
for itself a status, which must be recognized as a fact, without
reference to any question of right, and which in this case would
have been, to the extent of its success, a destruction of that Constitution. Failing to do this, the State remained a State of the
Union. She never escaped the obligations of that Constitution,
though for a while she may have evaded their enforcement.
In Texas v. Vlite (7 Wall. 700), the first and important question was, whether Texas was then one of the United States,
and as such capable of sustaining an original suit in this court
by reason of her being such State. And this was at a time
when Congress had not permitted her, after the rebellion, to
have representatives in either house of that body.
Mr. Chief Justice Chase, in delivering the judgment of the
court on this question, says: "The ordinance of secession,
adopted by the convention and ratified by a majority of the
citizens of Texas, and all the acts of her legislature intended to
give effect to that ordinance, were absolutely null. They were
utterly without operation in law. The obligations of the State.

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Or.

as a member of the Union, and of every citizen of the State, as
a citizen of the United States, remained perfect and unimpaired. It certainly follows that the State did not cease to be
a State, nor her citizens to be citizens, of the Union. If this
were otherwise, the State must have become foreign, and her
citizens foreigners. The war must have ceased to be a war
for the suppression of rebellion, and must have become a war for
conquest and subjugation. Our conclusion, therefore, is, that
Texas continued to be a State, and a State of the Union, notwithstanding the transactions to which we have referred."
In White v. Hart (13 id. 646), Mr. Justice Swayne, after a
full consideration of the subject, states the result in this forcible
language: "At no time were the rebellious States out of the
pale of the Union. . . . Their constitutional duties and obligations we're unaffected, and remained the same." And he shows
by reference to the formula used in the several reconstruction
acts, as compared with those for the original admission of new
States into the Union, that in regard to the States in rebellion
there was a simple recognition of their restored right to representation in Congress, and no readmission into the Union.
These cases, and especially that of Texas v. White, have been
repeatedly cited in this court with approval, and the doctrine
they assert must be considered as 'established in this forum
at least.
If the State of Tennessee has through all these transactions been the same State, and has been also a State of the
Union, and subject to the obligations of the Constitution of
the Union, it would seem to follow that the contract which she
made in 1838 to take for her taxes all the issues of the bank
of her own creation, and of which she was sole stockholder and
owner, was a contract which bound her during the rebellion,
and which the Constitution protected then and now, as well as
before. Mr. Wheaton says: "As to public debts,- whether
due to or from the State, - a mere change in the form of the
government, or in the person of the ruler, does not affect their
obligation. The essential power of the State, that which constitutes it an independent community, remains the same: its
accidental form only is changed. The debts being contracted
in the name of the State, by its authorized agents, for its public

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

use, the nation continues liable for them, notwithstanding the
change in its internal constitution. The new government succeeds to the fiscal rights, and is bound to fulfil the fiscal obligaInternational Law, sect.
tions, of the former government."
30. And the citations which he gives from Grotius and Puffendorf sustain him fully.
We are gratified to know that the Supreme Court of the State
of Tennessee has twice affirmed the principles just laid down in
reference to the class of bank-notes now in question. In a suit
brought by the State of Tennessee, against this very bank of
Tennessee, to wind up its affairs and distribute its assets, that
court, in April, 1875, decreed, among other things, "that the
acts by which it was attempted to declare the State independent,
and to dissolve her connection with the Union, had no effect in
changing the character of the bank, but that it had the same
powers, after as before those acts, to carry on a legitimate business, and that the receiving of deposits was a part of such legitimate business." "That the notes of the bank issued since May
6, 1861, held by Atchison and Duncan, and set out in their
answer, are legal and subsisting debts of the bank, entitled to
payment at their face value, and to the same priority of payment out of the assets of the bank as the notes issued before
May 6, 1861."
At a further healing of the same case, in January, 1877, that
court reaffirmed the same doctrine, and also held that the notes
were not subject to the Statute of Limitations, and were not
bound by it. State of Tennessee v. The Bank of Tennessee, not
reported. This decision was in direct conflict with schedule 6
of the constitutional amendment of 1865, which declared all
issues of the bank after May 6, 1861, void, and it necessarily
held that the schedule was itself void as a violation of the
Federal Constitution.
3. The third proposition on which the judgment of the courts
of Tennessee is supported is, that the notes on which the action
is brought were issued in aid of the rebellion, to support the
insurrection against the lawful authority of the United States,
and are therefore void for all purposes.
The principle stated in this proposition, if the facts of the
case come within it, is one which has repeatedly been discussed

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

by this court. The decisions establish the doctrine that no
promise or contract, the consideration of which was something
done or to be done by the promisee, the purpose of which was
to aid the war of the rebellion or give aid and comfort to the
enemies of the United States in the prosecution of that war, is
a valid promise or contract, by reason of the turpitude of its
consideration.
In Texas v. White (supra), the suit was for the recovery of certain bonds of the United States which, previously to the war,
had been issued and delivered to the State of Texas. During
the rebellion the legislature of that State had placed these bonds
in the hands of a military commission, and they were delivered
by that committee to White and Childs, to pay for supplies to
aid the military operations against the government. This court
held that while the State was still a State of the Union, and her
acts of ordinary legislation were valid, it was otherwise in regard to this transaction. As this is the earliest assertion of the
doctrine in this court, and this branch of the opinion received
the assent of all the members of the court but one, and has
been repeatedly cited since with approval, we reproduce a single
sentence from it: " It may be said," says the court, "perhaps
with sufficient accuracy, that acts necessary to peace and good
order among citizens, such, for example, as acts sanctioning
and protecting marriage and the domestic relations, governing
the course of descents, regulating the conveyance and transfer
of property, personal and real, and providing remedies for injuries to person and estate, and other similar acts which would
be valid if emanating from a lawful government, must be regarded in general as valid when proceeding from an actual
though unlawful government; and that acts in furtherance or
support of rebellion against the United States, or intended to
defeat the just rights of citizens, and other acts of like nature,
must, in general, be regarded as invalid."
In ffanauer v. Doane (12 Wall. 342), it was held that duebills, given in purchase of supplies by a purchasing agent of
the Confederate States, were void, though in the hands of a
third party; and in support of the judgment Mr. Justice Bradley said: "We have already decided, in the case of Texas v.
White, that a contract made in aid of the late rebellion, or in

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH v. CLARK.

furtherance and support thereof, is void. The same doctrine is
laid down in most of the circuits, and in many of the State
courts, and must be regarded as the settled law of the land."
The latest expression of the court on the subject was by Mr.
Justice Field, without dissent, in Williams v. Bruffy (96 U. S.
176), in which the whole doctrine is thus tersely stated: "While
thus holding that there was no validity in any legislation of the
Confederate States which this court can recognize, it is proper
to observe, that the legislation of these States stands on very
different grounds. The same general form of government, the
same general laws for the administration of jfistice and the protection of private rights, which had existed in the State prior
to the rebellion, remained during its continuance and afterwards. As far as the acts of the States did not impair, or tend
to impair, the supremacy of the national authority, or the just
rights of the citizens under the Constitution, they are, in general, to be treated as valid and binding." See Horn v. Loc hart
et al., 17 Wall. 570; Sprott v. United States, 20 id. 459.
There is, however, in the case before us nothing to warrant
the conclusion that these notes were issued for the purpose of
aiding the rebellion, or in violation of the laws or the Constitution of the United States. There is no plea of that kind in the
record. No such question was submitted to the jury which
tried the case. The sole matter stated in defence, either by
facts found in the bill of exceptions, or in the decree of the
court, is that the bills were issued after May 6, 1861, while
the State was in insurrection, and therefore come within the
amended Constitution of 1865, declaring them void. The provision of the State Constitution does not go upon the ground
that the State bonds and bank-notes, which it declared to be
invalid, were issued in aid of the rebellion, but that they were
issued by a usurping government,-a reason which we have
already demonstrated to be unsound. Not only is there nothing
in the Constitution or laws of Tennessee to prove that these
notes were issued in support of the rebellion, but there is nothing known to us in public history which leads to this conclusion.
The opinion of the Supreme Court, which we have already
cited, states that the bank was engaged in a legitimate business
at this time, receiving deposits, and otherwise performing the
VOL. VII.

30

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. 0t.

functions of a bank; and though, as is abundantly evident,
willing enough to repudiate these notes as receivable for taxes,
that court held them to be valid issues of the bank, in the teeth
of the ordinance declaring them void.
It is said, however, that considering the revolutionary character of the State government at that time, we must presume that
these notes were issued to support the rebellion.
But while we have the Supreme Court of Tennessee holding
that the bank during this time was engaged in a legitimate
banking business, we have no evidence whatever that these
notes were issued hnder any new law of the rebel State government, or by any interference of its officers, or that they were
in any manner used to support the State government. If this
were so, it would still remain that the State government was
necessary to the good order of society, and that in its proper
functions it was right that it should be supported.
We cannot infer, then, that these notes were issued in violation of any Federal authority.
On the other hand, if the fact be so, nothing can be easier
than to plead it and prove it. Whenever such a plea is presented, we can, if it comes to us, pass intelligently on its validity. If issue is taken, the facts can be embodied in a bill of
exceptions or some other form, and we can say whether those
facts render the contract void. To undertake to assume the
facts which are necessary to their invalidity on this record is to
give to conjecture the place of proof, and to rest a judgment of
the utmost importance on the existence of facts not found in
the record, nor proved by any evidence of which this court can
take judicial notice. We shall, when the matter is presented
properly to us, be free to determine, on all the considerations
applicable to the case, whether the notes that may be then in
controversy are protected by the provision of the Constitution
or not. And that is the only question of which, in a fase like
the present, we would have jurisdiction.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee will,
therefore, be reversed, and the case remanded to that court
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion; and
it is
So ordered.

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, and
AIR. JUSTICE HARLAIN dissented.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE. I am unable to give my assent to the judgment which has just been announced, and while
concurring in much of what is said in the opinion of the majority of my brethren, am compelled to differ upon a single point,
which, as I think, controls the decision of the case.
It is a conceded fact that the notes on which the suit is
brought were issued by the bank while the State was in rebellion against the government of the United States. The bank,
although organized for the transaction of a general banking
business, was also the fiscal agent of the State. It was established in the name and for the benefit of the State, and the
faith and credit of the State were pledged to give indemnity
for all losses arising from any deficiency in the funds specifically appropriated as capital. The State was the only stockholder, and entitled to all the profits realized from the business.
It is an historical fact that the banks of the insurgent States,
and especially those owned by the States, were used extensively
in furtherance of the rebellion, and that all or nearly all
their available funds were converted in one way or another
into Confederate securities. None of the banks owned by the
States survived the rebellion, and few were able to make any
considerable showing of valuable assets.
At the close of the war, Congress saw fit to propose for adoption the fourteenth constitutional amendment, in which it was
provided that "neither the United States nor any State shall
assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, . . . but all

such debts, obligations, and claims shall be held illegal and
void." This was done June 16, 1866 (14 Stat. 328), and the
adoption of this and other amendments by the late insurgent
States was afterwards made a condition to their admission to
representation in Congress. Id. 429.
On the 26th of June, 1865, before this amendment was proposed, the people of Tennessee in convention assembled ordained
that "all laws, ordinances, and resolutions of the usurped State
governments, passed on or after the sixth day of May, 1861, pro-

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. ("t,

viding for the issuante of State bonds, also all notes of the Bank
of Tennessee, or any of its branches, issued after the sixth day
of May, 1861, and all debts created or contracted in the name of
the State by said authority, are unconstitutional, null, and void,
and no legislature shall hereafter have power to pass any act
authorizing the payment of said bonds or debts, or providing for
the redemption of said notes." This goes somewhat beyond
the requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment, but to the extent it is a declaration that the debts of the insurgent State
government contracted in aid of the rebellion should not be
paid is certainly valid. On the 26th of July, 1866, Congress
gave it that effect in the resolution admitting the State "to
her relations to the Union." Id.364.
Every law is presumed to be constitutional. We cannot
declare a State law, and especially when in the form of a constitution, repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
unless it is manifestly so. We ought not reverse the judgment
of a State court upon a question of Federal law, unless it is
clearly wrong. The decisions of the highest court of a State
are always entitled to respect in this tribunal, and should not
be overruled under our constitutional power of review, except
for imperative reasons.
If facts could exist that would support a law or a State constitution, we must presume they did exist when the law was
passed or the constitution adopted, and that the action of the
legislature or the people was intended to apply to them.
If the bills of the Bank of Tennessee were in fact issued in
aid of the rebellion, they are void as obligations of the State.
So the Constitution of the United States as amended provides,
and so this court has decided in every case, where the question
was raised, that has come here since the war closed. As I
construe the ordinance of Tennessee, it is an authoritative
declaration, in an appropriate form, by the people of the State,
who were cognizant of the facts, that all the issues of the bank
after May 6, 1861, were in furtherance of the rebellion. In
this way the people, in effect, prohibited the tax-collectors and
officers of the State from receiving such issues in payment of
public dues. This drove the bill-holder to his suit under the act
of March 21, 1873, for the recovery of his money. To this suit

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH v. CLAM-

the State -oluntarily submitted, for the purpose of having the
validity of these obligations judicially determined, and in such
a suit as, I think, the constitutional ordinance, taken in connection with known historical facts, is entitled at least to the
weight of primafade evidence that the declaration it impliedly
makes is true. It is evidence that may be rebutted, but, until
rebutted, sufficient to justify an officer in refusing to receive
the bills as the obligations of the loyal people in payment of
dues to the loyal government. If this were an application for
a mandamus to compel the officer to receive the bills, and his
answer was that the bills had been issued in aid of the rebellion,
and he was prohibited by the Constitution of the State from
receiving them, I cannot but think his answer would be deemed
sufficient until overcome by proof. But the statutory remedy
which is now being used is only a substitute for that by mandamus; and when the defendant, who is a tax-collector, sets up
the Constitution of his State as his defence, and shows that the
obligations sued upon were incurred while the State was engaged in rebellion against the United States, I think he, at
least, puts upon the holder the burden of showing that they
were not incurred in aid of the rebellion. The authoritative
declarations of the people of a State, made in an appropriate
manner under the forms of law, ought to be presumed to be
true. Suppose this were a suit upon a bond of the State issued
during the rebellion, would it be insisted that we should reverse the judgment of the State court because it decided upon
the faith of the constitutional ordinance that no recovery could
be had without proof that the bond was issued for lawful
purposes, and not in aid of the Confederacy? Clearly not, I
think; and if not, why apply a different rule to suits upon
these bills as State obligations incurred during the same time,
and capable of being used for the same purposes. This is
thought by some of my brethren to require the plaintiff in such
an action to prove a negative before he can recover, but in my
judgment it only requires him to overcome a prima facie case
that has been made against him. If a State Constitution is not
to be presumed to rest on facts which will support it, rather
than such as will not, it seems'to me nothing can be presumed.

KEITH v. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

If the bills of this bank put out after May 6, 1861, were issued
in aid of the rebellion; the constitutional ordinance in question,
so far as it relates to them, is valid, and can stand; but if not,
it is invalid, because prohibited by the Constitution of the
United States, as impairing the obligation of contracts. Certainly, therefore, the presumption is that they were issued in
aid of the rebellion, and until this presumption is overcome
there ought to be, as I think, no recovery.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY. The question in this case is so
fundamental in its character, that I cannot suffer the opinion
of the majority to be read without expressing my earnest dissent from it.
The bank-notes issued by the Bank of Tennessee, which are
claimed to be legal tender for taxes, in this case, were issued
during the late civil war. Of course, whether they were new
bills or old, whilst they were in the possession of the bank they
were of no value. Being the obligations of the bank itself,
they had no force or value until they were'issued and put in
circulation, - any nore than the note or bond of an individual
has value, whilst it is in his possession. In this respect they
were totally different from the notes and obligations of others
held by the bank. The latter had value when in the bank's
possession, and were property. The bills in question were not
property. When the bank issued them, then, and only then,
they became property, by becoming obligations of the bank.
The issue of these, bills, therefore, was the creation of new
obligations on the part of the bank; just as much so as if the
bank had made, its bonds and issued them. And everybody
who took them knew this. The thing was not done in a corner.
It was known that these bills were of the "new issue," or the
"Torbet issue," of the bank.
These bills, being thus new obligations of the bank, were
issued for the purpose of raising funds for the bank or its
owners. They were not given away. They were promises to
pay, delivered to various parties for the sake of the consideration received therefor; and that consideration was sought for
and received by the bank for the purpose of being used, - for
the purpose, in other words, of furnishing the bank, and thereby

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

of furnishing its owners, with revenue for carrying on its and
their operations and business.
Now, it appears on the record that this bank belongs to the
State of Tennessee, and has no private stockholders. The first
section of the charter, passed by the legislature in 1838, is in
these words: "A bank shall be, and is hereby, established in
the name and for the benefit of the State, to be known under
the name and style of I The Bank of Tennessee;' and the faith
and credit of the State are hereby pledged for the support oi
the said bank, and to supply any deficiency in the funds hereinafter specifically pledged, and to give indemnity for all losses
arising from such deficiency."
The second section shows how the capital of the bank was
constituted : "The capital of said bank shall be five millions of dollars, to be
raised and constituted as follows: The whole of the common-school
fund, . . . as well as the proceeds of the Ocoee lands, shall constitute a part of the capital of the Bank of Tennessee; the surplus
revenue on deposit with the State . . . shall also constitute a part
of the stock of said bank; and, in addition, . . . a sum shall be
raised in specie, or funds convertible into specie at par value, on the
fhith of the State, sufficient to make the whole capital five millions
of dollars," &c.
The sixth and seventh sections provide for the appointment of
the directors of the bank, by the nomination of the governor
and confirmation of the General Assembly.
The bank thus became the fiscal agent of the State. All its
funds and property, all its resources of every kind, belong to
the State, subject to the payment of its debts. The State, it
is true, according to the decision in Curran v. The State of
Arkansas, has no constitutional authority to appropriate the
capital of the bank to the prejudice of its debts ; and it is not
to be presumed that any lawful government of the State will
do so. If it does, there are generally means, under the provisions of the Constitution, for preventing such a result.
The State, then, being the proprietor of the bank, and the
latter being the fiscal agent of the State, it follows that the
business operations of the bank inure entirely to the benefit
of the State. The property and resources which were obtained

. KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

by the issue of the bills in question were obtained for the benefit of the State. The bills were issued in the interest and for
the benefit of the State.
In pursuance of the idea that the bank was the property of
the State, and that the faith of the State was pledged for its
obligations, it was provided, by the twelfth section, "that the
bills or notes of the said corporation, originally made payable,
or which shall have become payable, on demand, in gold or
silver coin, shall be receivable at the treasury of this State,
and by all tax-collectors and other public officers, in all payments for taxes and other moneys due to the State."
The question in this case is, whether the State government,
as reconstructed after the late rebellion, is absolutely and
irretrievably bound by the twelfth section to accept for taxes
and other public dues the bills issued by the bank when under
the control of the insurgent government during the war.
If by the operation of general public law, or of any thing
contained in the Constitution of the United States, the reconstructed and lawful government is so bound, it is more than
the insurgents themselves ever expected, and more than the
loyal people of the State supposed, when in 1865 they met
together in convention, and adopted those ordinances and
regulations which the changed condition of things required.
They then declared that "all laws, ordinances, and resolutions
of the usurped State governments, passed on or after the sixth
day of May, 1861, providing for the issuance of State bonds,
also all notes of the Bank of Tennessee, or any of its branches,
issued on or after the sixth day of May, 1861, and all debts
created or contracted in the name of the State by such authority, are unconstitutional, null, and void."
In favor of the proposition that the lawful State government,
reorganized after the rebellion, is bound to recognize the bills
in question, it is contended that the State of Tennessee has
always remained the same State; and that unless it be shown
affirmatively that its acts and proceedings were intended to aid
in the prosecution of the rebellion, they are all valid and binding on the reconstructed State.
The latter proposition I deny. The State can only act by
its constituted authorities,- in other words, by its government;

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

and if that government is a usurping and illegal government,
the State itself and the legal government, which takes the
place of the usurping government, are not bound by its acts.
In the case before us, the actual government of the State,
for the time being, standing behind the direction of the bank,
and creating that direction, exercised complete control over the
operations of the bank. When the State government was in
want of money, or other resources, for its immediate purposes,
the bank, in obedience to its will, issued its obligations, and
procured what was wanted.
The process by which this was done was equivalent, in the
substance of the transaction, to the government issuing its own
obligations, and thereby filling its treasury.
In the exigencies of the war, the then government of Tennessee was in need of every possible resource that could be
compelled into contribution. It cannot reasonably be doubted
that the very object of this extraordinary new issue of bank
circulation was intended for the purpose of enabling the
government to carry on its operations. The fact that the
bills themselves commanded only a fraction of their par value
is proof that they were not issued in the regular course of
business, but that.the proceeds received therefor were destined
for other uses than legitimate banking.
But in my view of the case, it is not necessary to invoke
any presumptions of this sort, to deny to these bills the quality
of legal tender in the payment of taxes imposed by the lawful
government of the State. The original contract contained in
the charter of the bank, to the effect that its circulation should
be receivable in payment of taxes, was based on the consideration that the State, as proprietor of the bank, received the
benefit of the circulation, and was pledged for its redemption.
Hence it followed, by an almost necessary implication, that it
should honor that circulation so far as to take it for cash, when
offered in payment of its own taxes. It never could have been
the intent or implication that if a usurping government should
at any time obtain the control of the State and its finances,
including this very fiscal agency, the issues of the bank made
during the period of such usurpation should be honored in the
same manner.

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

Now if the position of the majority of the court is correct,
that there never was any usurpation of the State government
in Tennessee during the late civil war, and that the State
had all the time a lawful government of its own (for that is
what the argument amounts to), then I concede that the
conclusion reached is unavoidable. If this be true, then I do
not see why all the obligations issued by the State during the
war, whether in the shape of bonds, or certificates of indebtedness or otherwise, are not equally obligatory as these bills.
How is it to be proved which of them was issued for carrying
on the war, and which were not? Upon the assumption made,
they are all prima facie valid. But this, of course, is only a
collateral consideration.
I deny the assumption that the governments of the insurgent States were lawful governments. I believe, and hold, that
they were usurping governments. I understand this to have
been the opinion of this court in Texas v. Wlite, 7 Wall. 700.
The very argument in that case is, that whilst the State as
a community of people remained a State rightfully belonging to the United States, the government of the State bad
passed into relations entirely abnormal to the conditions of
its constitutional existence. "When the war closed," says Mr.
Chief Justice Chase, speaking for the court, "there was no
government in the State except that which had been organized for the purpose of waging"war against the United States.
That government immediately disappeared. The chief functionaries left the State. Many of the subordinate officers followed their example. Legal responsibilities were annulled or
greatly impaired." Again he says: "There being then no
government in Texas in constitutional relations with the Union,
it became the duty of the United States to provide for the restoration of such government."
Again, in speaking of the
power and duty of Congress to guarantee to each State a republican government, and the necessary right which follows
therefrom to decide what government is established in each
State, the Chief Justice makes the following quotation from the
opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Taney in the case of Luther v.
Borden (7 How. 1), who says: "Under the fourth article of the
Constitution, it rests with Congress to decide what government

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

is the established one in a State. For as the United States
guarantee to each State a republican government, Congress
must necessarily decide what government is established in the
State, before it can determine whether it is republican or not."
Mr. Chief Justice Chase proceeds to say, "This is the language of the late Chief Justice, speaking for this court, in a
case from Rhode Island, arising from the organization of opposing governments in that State. And we think that the principle sanctioned by it may be applied with even more propriety
to the case of a State deprived of all rightful government, by
revolutionary violence; though necessarily limited to cases
where the rightful government is thus subverted, or in imminent danger of being overthrown by an opposing government,
set up by force within the State."
The actual course of things taken in the seceding States, so
fully detailed by the Chief Justice in Texas v. White, are
demonstrative, it seems to me, of the position which I have
assumed. The several State governments existing or newly
organized at the times when the ordinances of secession were
respectively adopted, assumed all the branches of sovereignty
belonging to the Federal government. The right to declare
war, raise armies, make treaties, establish post-offices and postroads, impose duties on imports and exports, and every other
power of the government of the United States, were usurped
by the said State governments, either singly, or in concert and
confederacy with the others. They assumed to sever the connection between their respective communities and the government of the United States, and to exercise the just powers
belonging to that government. That such governments should
be denominated legal State governments in this country, where
the Constitution of the United States is and ought to be the
supreme law of the land, seems to be most remarkable. The
proposition assumes that the connection between the States and
the general government is a mere bargain or compact, which,
if broken, - though unlawfully broken, - still leaves the States
in rightful possession of all their pristine autonomy and authority as States.
I do not so read the constitution of government, under which
we live. Our government is a mixed government, partly state,

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ot.

partly national. The people of the United States, as one great
political community, have willed that a certain portion of the
government, including all foreign intercourse, and the public
relations of the nation, and all matters of a general and national
character, which are specified in the Constitution, should be
deposited in and exercised by a national government; and that
all matters of merely local interest should be deposited in and
exercised by the State governments. This division of governmental powers is fundamental and organic. It is not merely a
bargain between States. It is part of our fundamental political
organization. Any State attempting to violate this constitution
of things not only breaks the fundamental law, but, if it establishes a government in conformity with its views, that government is a usurping government, - a revolutionary government,
-as
much so as would be an independent government set up
by any particular county in a State. If the city of New York
should set up a separate government independent of the gov
eminent of the State, it would be a usurping and revolutionary
government. It might succeed, and make itself independent,
and then there would be a successful revolution. But if it did
not succeed, if it were put down, every one would call it a
usurping and unlawful government whilst it lasted, and none
of its acts would be binding on the lawful government.
I do not mean to say that States are mere counties or prov
inces. But I do mean to say, that the political relation of the
people of the several States to the Constitution and government
of the United States is such, that if a State government attempt
to sever that relation, and if it actually sever it by assuming
and exercising the functions of the Federal government, it
becomes a usurping government.
We have always held, it is true, that, in the interests of order
and for the promotion of justice, the courts ought to regard as
valid all those acts of the State governments which were received and observed as laws for the government of the people
in their relations with each other, so far as it can be done without recognizing and confirming what was actually done in aid
of the rebellion. This is required by every consideration of justice and propriety. But this is only what is always conceded to
the adts and laws of any actual government, however invalid.

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

The action of all the States, after the rebellion was over,
shows that they did not consider the insurrectionary governments as legal governments, nor the laws by them enacted as
having any binding force -or validity proprio vigore. In, every
case, it is believed, ordinances or laws were passed either adopting the laws passed during the insurrection, with certain exceptions duly specified, or declaring them all to be invalid, with
the exception of such as it was deemed proper to retain. This
was done in Tennessee. It was done in all the other States.
The proceedings and acts of Congress and the Executive after
the war was at an end, having in view the reconstruction of the
insurgent States, are all based on the same idea; viz., that the
governments of those States when in rebellion were usurping
governments, and that their acts were void. The various pardons and proclamations of amnesty, and acts of rehabilitation to
citizenship, passed by Congress, all look in the same direction.
In England, at the close of the Commonwealth, and the restoration of Charles II., no act passed duripg that whole period
of twenty years, from 1640 to 1660, was ever received or admitted as law. Not one of them is found in the statute-book.
Some laws which were of great public concern, and actual
improvements in the legislative code, were re-enacted, and
became laws under Charles II.
It is said that the national obligations of the English government, created during the period in question, were recognized
by the restored government. But it is well known that this
was a matter of compromise and concession. General Monk
held the reins in his own hands as commander of the army,
and refused to surrender them until all proper measures for insuring the public tranquillity and satisfaction were agreed to.
The royalists were glad to get back into power on these terms.
As to the public relations of the kingdom, it would have been
arrant folly not to have adopted what had been done. Besides
the fact that these relations came under the operation of general public law, in which other nations were deeply concerned, one cardinal rule of which is, that every nation in its relations
with other nations is bound by the acts of its actual government, whether legal or de facto, -it
was the clear interest of the
English nation to stand to the public negotiations of Cromwell;

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Or.

for no English sovereign had ever wielded the sceptre of public
affairs with greater ability and energy.
There is nothing, therefore, in this historical instance to support the opinion of the court.
It is undoubtedly true that, when revolutions in governments
occur, the new governments do often, as matter of policy, and
to prevent individual distress among the citizens, assume the
obligations of the governments to which they succeed. But
this is done from motives of public policy only, and is not
submitted to as a matter of absolute right. Such was clearly
the relation of the lawful State governments to the obligations
of the usurping governments, at the close of the civil war in
this country. They could assume them or not, as they saw fit.
In the case before us, the obligation in question was expressly
repa.liated. And it seems to me that, in addition to the express repudiation of the Convention of 1865, that part of the
Fourteenth A-mendment of the Constitution of the United
States which prohibits the United States or any State to assume
or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or
rebellion against the United States, applies to the case.
Whether the community of people constituting the several
States remained States during the insurrection is of no consequence to the argument. The question is, whether the State
governments were or were not legal governments, and whether
the obligations by them assumed are binding upon the lawful
government of the State.
That the acts of secession were void, of course no one denies.
The civil war was carried on by the United States government
to demonstrate their nullity. But neither has that any thing
to do with the question as to the validity of the State governments which waged war against the United States, except to
make it more certain and indubitable that they were usurping
governments.
It seems to me that the attempt to fasten upon the lawful
government of Tennesseb an obligation to receive as cash bills
that were issued under the authority of the usurping government of that State whilst it was engaged in a deadly war
against the government of the United States, is calculated to
introduce evils of great magnitude; that it will ultimately lead

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH v. CLARK.

to the recognition of the war debts of the seceding States, notwithstanding the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment
of the Constitution. But this I would regard as a far less
evil than the establishment of doctrines at war, as I think,
with the true principles of our national government, as well as
with the established rules of public law.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN.
I dissent altogether from so much
of the opinion of the court as declares that the State of Tennessee, as represented by its existing government, is bound to
receive, in payment of taxes levied under its authority, the
notes of the Bank of Tennessee, issued after May 6, 1861, and
during the period when that State was dominated by a revolutionary organization which usurped the functions of the lawful
State government.
It is claimed that the obligation of the existing government
of Tennessee to receive these bank-notes for taxes arises out of
the twelfth section of the bank's charter, granted in 1838,
which provides "that the bills or notes of the said corporation,
originally made payable, or which shall have become payable,
on demand, in gold or silver coin, shall be receivable at the
treasury of this State, and by all tax-collectors and other public
officers, inall payments for taxes and other moneys due to the
State."
The purposes for which the bank was organized, and the relations created between it and the State by its charter, are thus
stated in Turman v. Nich~ol, 8 Wall. 44.
"The State of Tennessee, through its legislature, in 1838,
thought proper to create a bank ' in its name and for its benefit.' It was essentially a State institution. The State owned
the capital and received the profits, appointed its directors,
and pledged its faith and credit for its support."
It was because the State, through directors of its appointment, had the absolute control of the operations of the bank,
owning its capital and enjoying its profits, that it made the
agreement contained in the twelfth section of the charter.
That agreement unquestionably constituted, as between the
State and the holders of the bank's notes, a contract, the obligation of which the State was forbidden by the Federal Con-

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup. Or.

stitution to impair. Such was the decision of this court in
Furmanv. Nichol (supra), as to all bills issued by the bank prior
to May 6, 1861. In that case, while expressly waiving any
decision of the question as to the liability of the State for bills
issued between May 6, 1861, and the date of the restoration of
its lawful government, we held that the guaranty contained in
the twelfth section of the charter "was, until withdrawn by
the State, a contract between the State and every note-holder
of the bank," obliging the State to receive for taxes any notes
issued prior to May 6, 1861. But it is to be observed that the
State which made this contract with note-holders was the State
which was represented by the lawful government thereof.
The notes which it agreed to receive for taxes were necessarily
only those issued by the authority, or under the orders, of
directors appointed by that lawful government. It was not an
agreement to receive notes issued under the orders of usurping
directors, or by directors appointed by, or exercising their functions under, any revolutionary government, which, by violence,
should displace the lawful government of the State. Upon the
temporary overthrow of the latter government, on the 6th of
May, 1861, all the State institutions, including the Bank of
Tennessee, were seized by the usurping government, and were
thereafter, and until the legal authorities resumed, or were reinstated in the exercise of, their functions, controlled and managed by the usurping government for its own benefit and
maintenance. The notes in question were issued under the
orders of directors who repudiated all responsibility to the government which made the contract embodied in the twelfth section of the bank charter. If the issue of such notes imposed
obligations upon any State government, it was upon the insurgent State government, whose official agents had directed them
to be issued. In the very nature of things, and so long as the
duty exists to discourage revolution, by maintaining lawfully
constituted authority, no obligation could arise against the
State government which had been wrongfully displaced, and
whose right to control and manage the bank, by directors of
its appointment, was not only denied and repudiated, but was
forcibly, and for some time successfully, resisted. And this
view does no injustice to citizens of Tennessee who received

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

the notes of the bank in the ordinary course of business. They
were aware of the fact that these notes were issued under revolutionary authority. They did not take them upon the credit
of the lawful government, or upon any faith they bad in its
restoration. They took them upon the credit of the usurping
State government, under whose authority and for whose benefit
they were issued, and which government, at that time, was
regarded by the mass of the people of Tennessee as established
upon a firm and enduring foundation.
But it is said that this court has frequently decided that the
ordinary acts and transactions of the Confederate State governments, which had no direct connection with the support of the
insurrection against the authority of the Union, were to be
deemed as valid as if they had been the acts and transactions
of legitimate legislatures. The argument upon this branch of
the case necessarily rests upon the assumption that the notes
of the bank issued, under usurping authority, after May 6,
1861, were not issued, or do not appear to have been issued,
for the purpose of aiding the insurrection or in hostility to the
Union. This assumption, however, cannot be successfully maintained without excluding from consideration well-known historical facts. The government of the Confederate States of
America had its origin in the purpose to dissolve the Union
formed by the Federal Constitution, and to overthrow the national authority in the States declared to be in insurrection.
The revolutionary governments of the insurrectionary States
had their origin in, and were formed for, a like purpose. The
existence of the former depended upon the existence of the latter. All moneys, therefore, raised by the revolutionary State
government, for its support and maintenance, may be deemed,
in every substantial legal sense, as having been raised for the
support and maintenance of the Confederate government in its
efforts to overturn the government of the United States. But
in the view which I take of this case, and of the principles
which must govern its decision, it is immaterial whether the
notes were or were not issued in direct aid of the rebellion.
They were the obligations of an institution controlled and managed by a revolutionary usurping government, in its name, for
its benefit, and to prevent the restoration of the lawful State
VOL. vir.

31

KEITH V. CLARK.

[Sup, 0t.

government. It was that revolutionary government which undertook to withdraw the State of Tennessee from its allegiance
to the Federal government and make it one of the Confederate
States. When, therefore, the people of Tennessee, who recognized the authority of the United States, assembled by their
delegates in convention, in January, 1865, it was quite natural,
and, in my judgment, not in violation of the Federal Constitution, that they should declare, by an amendment of the State
Constitution, that "all laws, ordinances, and resolutions of the
usurped State governments passed on or after the 6th May, 1861,
providing for the issuance of State bonds, also all notes of the
Bank of Tennessee, or any of its branches, issued on or after
the 6th May, 1861, and all debts created or contracted in the
name of the State by said authority, are unconstitutional, null,
and void; and no legislature shall hereafter have power to pass
any act authorizing the payment of said bonds or debts, or
providing for the redemption of said notes." And this amendment of the State Constitution was duly ratified by a popular
vote in that State on 22d February, 1865.
After carefully examining the former decisions of this court,
and regarding the special facts and circumstances of each case
heretofore decided, I do not perceive that any thing declared by
us is at all inconsistent with the position that it was competent
for the lawful government of Tennessee, when restored to the
exercise of its just authority, to refuse to meet the obligations
of the usurping State government, or to recognize the notes
which had been illegally issued in the name of a State banking
institution by the directions, and for the benefit, of the revolutionary organization which had violently displaced the regular
and lawful State government. There may be some difficulty
in defining precisely what acts of the usurping State government the restored State government should have recognized as
valid and binding. .It may be true that there were some of
them which should, upon grounds of public policy, have been
recognized by the lawful government as valid and binding. It
may be that, in the absence of any declaration to the contrary
by the latter, the courts should recognize certain acts of the
revolutionary government as prima fade valid. But I am unwilling to give my assent to the doctrine that the Constitution

Oct. 1878.]

KEITH V. CLARK.

of the United States imposed upon the lawful government of
Tennessee an obligation, which this court must enforce, to cripple its own revenue, by receiving for its taxes bank-notes issued
and used, under the authority of the usurping government, for
the double purpose of maintaining itself and of defeating the
restoration of that lawful government to its proper relations in
the Union. Lawful government should not be required to pay
the expenses incurred in effecting and maintaining its overthrow. Tennessee, as one of the United States, cannot be under
a constitutional duty to recognize the governmental obligations
of those who, by revolution, and in violation of the Federal Constitution, overthrew the legitimate State government, not because of its administration of the internal affairs of that State,
but solely because of its adherence to the Federal Union, and its
refusal to acknowledge the authority of the Confederate government. If the insurrectionary State government had, during
the recent war, urged the people in insurrection to take the
notes of the Bank of Tennessee at par, upon the ground that
the lawful State government, if restored, would be required by
the courts of the United States, whose government they were
endeavoring to overturn, to receive them in payment of taxes,
and if the insurgents had believed such to be the law of the
land, the treasury of the Confederate State government would
have had more money than it did have to carry on the work of
revolution.
Upon these grounds, which I will not further elaborate, I
feel obliged to dissent from the conclusions reached by the
court.

