GAUSSEN V. UNITED 'STATES.

[Sup. ot.

the sound discretion of the court to which the motion is addressed, and that the result cannot be made the subject of review upon a writ of error. We cannot think that Congress
intended by the act of June 1, 1872 (17 Stat. 197, sect. 5), to
abrogate this salutary rule. Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426;
Indianapolis, &c. Railroad Co. v. Horst, 93 id. 291.
Judgment affirmed.

GAUSSEN v. UNITED STATES.
1. The United States, in asserting its rights, is not barred by the laches of its
officers or agents.
2. Duties imposed upon an officer, different in their nature from those which he
was required to perform at the time his official bond was executed, do not
render it void as an undertaking for the faithful performance of those which
lie at first assumed. It will still remain a binding obligation for what it was
originally given to secure.
o. The twenty-first section of the act of Congress of March 2, 1799 (1 Stat. 644),
makes it the duty of collectors of customs "to pay to the order of the officer, who shall be authorized to direct the payment thereof, the whole of the
moneys which they may respectively receive" by virtue of that act. Hdd,
that payments and disbursements of moneys received in his official capacity,
if made by direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, are within the range
of the duty of a collector of customs.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
This is an action by the United States against Bessie Elgee
Gaussen, executrix of John K. Elgee, deceased, who was one of
the sureties on the official bond of Thomas Barrett, collector
of the customs for the district of New Orleans, in the State of
Louisiana. It was before this court at its October Term, 1873,
when the judgment of the Circuit Court was reversed and the
case remanded for a new trial. United States v. Gaussen, 19
Wall. 198. The mandate was filed in the court below, Jan. 27,
1875. The bond sued on bears date July 6, 1844, and is conditioned as follows: "Now, therefore, if the said Thomas Barrett has truly and faithfully executed and discharged, and shall
continue truly and faithfully to execute and discharge, all the
duties of the said office, according to law, then the above obliga-

Oct. 1878.]

GAUSSEN 1). UNITED STATES.

tion to be void and of none effect; otherwise, it shall abide and
remain in full force and virtue."
The United States claimed that the various adjustments of
Barrett's accounts by the accounting officers of the Treasury,
from July 25, 1844, to Oct. 12, 1845, showed a balance due by
him of $41,876.64, and that his failure to account for and pay
over that amount, received by him in his official capacity, constituted a breach of the condition of his bond. The defendant
answered, 1. By a general denial.
2. [" That if the bond sued on was ever executed, delivered,
and took effect, which is not admitted, then defendant avers
that said bond, after its execution, was rendered void and null,
so far as said decedent was concerned, for this, that subsequent
to its date and daring the period of the term of office of Thomas
Barrett, as collector of the port of New Orleans, the United
States imposed on and exacted of him the performance of duties
and the assumption of responsibilities in regard to the receipt,
custody, and disbursement of the moneys received in his said
capacity as collector aforesaid, different and variant from those
duties and responsibilities in that regard legally incumbent upon
him as collector aforesaid, at the date of said bond, under the
law then existing and in force; that during his said term of
office said Barrett was dispensed by the United States from his
duty and obligation of paying certain moneys, received by him
in his said capacity, to the United States, in the mode required
by law, and in lieu thereof was required by the United States
to expend and disburse, and under its orders he did actually
expend and disburse, during his said official term, a large portion of said moneys, by payments made to collectors and surveyors of other collection districts, and to various other officers of
the government; that said Barrett was required by the United
States to expend and disburse, and he did, in accordance, with
its orders, expend and disburse, during his said official term,
a large portion of said moneys for the construction of 'the new
marine hospital, and for the maintenance and supply of existing
hospitals and light-houses, and of vessels of the revenue and naval
service, and for other purposes entirely beyond the scope of his
duties as collector aforesaid, and as fixed and, defined by law;

GAUSSEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

that said Barrett was required by the United States, in his said
capacity as collector aforesaid, to receive and disburse, and did
actually during his said official term receive and disburse, under
its said requirements, large sums of money which he was not
required by law to receive and disburse in his said capacity as
collector; - all of which appears by the account filed by the
plaintiff herein. And defendant charges that the duties and
risks and responsibilities of said Barrett as collector aforesaid,
without the consent of said decedent, were varied, enlarged, and
changed by the United States, subsequent to the date of said
bond and during his official term, whereby the liability of said
decedent as surety on said bond, if ever it existed, was avoided
and discharged.
8. "That the said Thomas Barrett departed this life about
the year 1846, in New Orleans, having a large real and personal
estate, consisting in property and assets, more than sufficient to
pay the amount of plaintiff's demand; that if the United States
had a valid claim against said Barrett, it had the right of priority of payment on such property and assets, which it neglected
to enforce, and lost; that upon said bond are signatures which
purport to be those of Franeois Delery, Sylvain Peyroux,
Lucien Hermann, M. B. Cantrelle; that all of said parties are
dead; that each died leaving a large and valuable estate, more
than enough to pay the amount claimed in this suit; that if the
United States had a valid claim against said Barrett and said
Frangois Delery, Sylvain Peyroux, Lucien Hermann, and M. B.
Cantrelle, it had the right of priority of payment of said demand out of each and all of said estates, which it neglected to
enforce, and lost, whereby the liability of said J. K. Elgee, if it
ever existed, was discharged."]
The court, on motion of the United States, ordered that the
part of said answer which is included within brackets be struck
out, on the ground that, if true, it was insufficient, as pleaded,
b bar the action.
The defendant requested the court to give the following
instructions in relation to matters which the evidence tended
to establish: 1. "That if the jury find from the evidence that the Secretary of the Treasury required the said Barrett, while collector,

)ct. 1878.]

GAUSSEN v. UNITED STATS.

o use the moneys received by him as collector, in the redemp.ion of treasury notes of the United States, that such requirenent was an important and material change of the duties,
'unctions, and employment of the said Barrett as collector, as
-egulated by law, and, whenever made, discharged the sureties
)nhis official bond from all liability for his subsequent official
,onduct."
2. "That while Barrett, the principal in the bond sued on,
ield the office of collector, no law imposed on him the duty
)f making disbursements for any marine hospital or for the
ight-houses or revenue-cutters, and that such duties and disursements were extra-official as to the office of collector, and
;hat the sureties on the bond sued on are not responsible for
my fault, neglect, or misconduct of the said Barrett in respect
;o such extra-official disbursements; and if the jury find from
;he evidence that said Barrett, while he held said office, was
mployed by the superior officers of the department to make
lisbursements for the marine hospital, light-houses, and reveiue-cutters, and that the said Barrett was furnished money
lirectly from the treasury of the United States, or from other
iources than the proper receipts and collections of the office of
ollector, that, in order to charge the defendant with the money
hus furnished, or any part thereof, it is incumbent on the
)laintiff to prove that the money thus furnished, or such part
hereof, was necessary to cover the disbursements proper to the
iffice of collector, or was furnished for that purpose."
8. "That if the jury find from the evidence that the Secre.
ary of the Treasury caused to be remitted to Thomas Barrett,
vhile collector, money out of the treasury of the United States,
md employed him as disbursing officer of the government in
lefraying the expenses of the light-house service, of the erecion of the marine hospital at New Orleans, and in other
natters not connected with his official duties as collector, as
egulated by law, and extra-official as respects the office of
ollector, and in the accounts between the government and
he said Barrett, filed with the petition, there are mixed and
Plended together on the debit side of the account against said
3arrett the moneys received by him officially for duties on
reports and from other sources from which he was by law

GAUSSEN

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

authorized to collect, and moneys remitted to him directly out
of the treasury of the United States; [that, in order to recover
the balance brought down in the present action, it is incumbent
on the government to prove to the satisfaction of the jury that
the said balance brought down resulted from the failure of the
said Barrett to account for the funds which came into his
hands, as collector, and within the scope of his official duties
in that office, and his failure to perform his duty in respect
to such funds, and not from his failure to account for funds
received from the treasury for extra-official purposes, and his
failure to perform his duty in respect to such funds."]
These instructions the court refused to give, except so much
of the last as is embraced within brackets. The defendant
excepted.
There was a verdict for the plaintiff for $36,815.86, with
interest thereon from Oct. 12, 1845; and judgment having
been rendered thereon, the defendant sued oat this writ, and
here assigns error as follows :
The court below erred, 1. In striking out parts of the answer of the defendant.
2. In refusing the defendant's first request.
3. In refusing the defendant's second request.
4. In refusing the defendant's third request.
Hr. Williamn D. Shipman and Mr. WilliamIW. Mac-arland
for the plaintiff in error.
The contract of a surety is strictissimi juris, and cannot be
extended by implication beyond the fair terms of his engagement. Ludlow v. Simonds, 2 Cai. (N. Y.) Cas. 1; United
States v. Tillotson, 1 Paine, 305; Miller v. Stewart, 9 Wheat.
680. The fact that the United States is the obligee of the
bond does not change the rule applicable to his contract.
United States v. Hirkatric, id. 720. Therefore the English
doctrine, that prerogative overrides all equities, has no place in
American jurisprudence.
Ordinarily, the acts of a private person or a corporation,
obligee of a bond conditioned for the faithful performance
of a duty, which discharge the surety, will equally discharge
him where they are done by the United States under the
same circumstances. United States v. ffillegas, 3 Wash. 70

Oct. 1878.]

GAUSSEN V. UNITED STATES.

rkpatriek, supra; United States v. Tillotson,
United States v.
supra.
The answer of the defendant below, which was struck out
by the court, was competent, under the rules of pleading prevailing in Louisiana, Lawson et ux. v. Ripley, 17 La. 238;
Frierson v. Irwin, 5 La. Ann. 531; Waterman v. G-ibson, id.
673; Ralston v. Barclay et al., 6 Mart. (La.) 649; Ory v.
Winter, 4 Mart. (La.) w. s. 277; Tracy v. Tuyes et al., id. 354.
The court should have charged the jury as requested in the
defendant's first prayer. , If the new duty imposed by the Secretary of the Treasury upon the collector, to apply the moneys
received by him in the redemption of treasury notes, had been
inserted in the bond without the consent of the surety, the
latter would have been discharged from all liability. M11iller v.
Stewart, supra.
A new and important change was thereby made in the duties
f the office not contemplated by the parties to the bond when
fhey executed it.
The refusal to give the instructions set forth in the second
request was error. Dedham Banke v. Chickering, 4 Pick.
(Mass.) 314; Legh v. Taylor, 7 Barn. & Cress. 491; United
States v. Powell, 14 Wall. 493; United States v. Singer, 15 id.
L11; Converse v. United States, 21 How. 463.
If any part of the third request was proper, the whole was.
rhe learned judge virtually admitted the legal correctness of
;he propositions embodied in the request, by charging the
onelusion which they embrace; but he rejected the premises
nseparably connected therewith, which furnished the only subect-matter to which the jury could intelligently apply that
!onclusion.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
Mr. JuSTiCE STrONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was founded upon the bond of a collector of cusoms, the condition of which is that he had truly executed and
lischarged, and should continue to execute and discharge, all
he duties of the office of collector according to law; and the
)reach assigned was that he bad failed to account for and pay
iver the money received by him in his official capacity as col-

GAUSSEN

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

lector. The defendant's testator was a surety in the bond; but
that is an immaterial fact in the case, for nothing is plainer
than the rule that a surety in a bond is liable to the same extent to which his principal is liable, by force of the bond.
A general denial having been interposed to the plaintiff's
petition, the defendant added two special pleas, which, upon
motion, the Circuit Court ordered to be stricken out, and this
order is now assigned as error. An examination of the pleas
stricken out, however, satisfies us that they were plainly impertinent. They aver nothing that constitutes either a total
or even a partial defence. The second alleges, in effect, laches
on the part of the government, in failing to assert its claim
against other sureties in the bond, whereby, it is averred, the
liability of defendant's testator, if it ever existed, was discharged. But laches of the officers or agents of the government is confessedly no bar to the assertion of its rights. This
is admitted by the plaintiff in error, and it has not been contended in argument, as it could not have been successfully,
that delay or neglect in prosecuting its claims against the cosureties of the defendant's testator is any bar to this suit.
The first special plea ' requires a more minute examination.
It was, in effect, that the obligation of the bond had been discharged, not directly, but because the principal obligor had
been required to perform, and had performed, duties additional
to those which pertained by law to his office when the bond
was made. It does not aver that the additional duties changed
the character of the office, or increased the responsibility of the
collector for the money received by him as collector of customs.
How, then, the requisition of duties not inconsistent with accounting for and paying over money received by him as collector
of customs can operate to release his bond is quite incomprehensible. If it be conceded, as it may be, that the addition of
duties different in their nature from those which belonged to
the office when the official bond was given will not impose
upon an obligor in the bond, as such, additional responsibilities, it is undoubtedly true that such an addition of new duties
does not render void the bond of the officer as a security for
the performance of the duties at first assumed. It will still
1 Supra, p.

585.

Oct. 1878.]

GAUSSEN V. UNITED STATES.

remain a security for what it was originally given to secure.
And it is noticeable that most of the allegations in the plea of
extra-official expenditures and disbursements required of the
collector (for example, payments to other' collectors and surveyors of other collection districts, payments to other government officers, payments for the construction of a new marine
hospital, and for the maintenance and supply of existing hospitals and light-houses and vessels of the revenue and naval
service), are averments of conduct and requirements which the
collector was under legal obligations to observe and obey when
the bond in suit was made. The act of Congress of March 2,
1799, c. 2, sect. 21 (1 Stat. 644), made it the duty of collectors
to "pay to the order of the officer who shall be authorized to
direct the payment thereof, the whole of the moneys which
they may respectively receive" by virtue of the act. All payments and disbursements of money received by the collector
in his official capacity, if made as charged in the plea, by direcbion of the governmentf were, therefore, strictly within the
range of his official duty.
The remaining reason given by the plea in support of the
iverment that the bond had been avoided is, that the collector
was, during his official term, required to receive and disburse
large sums of money which the law did not require him to re,eive and disburse as collector, as appeared by the official ac,ounts filed by the plaintiff in the suit. But how that fact, if
.t was a fact, could operate, even in favor of a surety, to release
lim from the obligation of the official bond, we find ourselves
inable to perceive. Such an effect has not been claimed in
;he argument for the plaintiff in error. It is doubtless true
;hat neither the surety nor his principal is responsible,by vir;ue of the bond, for money which the collector received, not as
.ollector, - money which his office did not require him to reeive or disburse; but this suit was brought to enforce no such
,esponsibility. The surety may not be liable for a failure of
uis principal to account for such money; yet if he is not, it
loes not follow that he is not bound by his bond to respond for
ds principal's default to account for money received in his offiial character. Requiring a person who is a collector of cusoms to receive a sum of money and apply it in discharge of

GAUSSEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

some liability of the government entirely outside of his ordinary
employment, for example, to pay debentures, may impose a
new duty upon him, but it leaves his office, as collector, untouched and his accountability in it unimpaired. This is quite
consistent with the doctrine which we admit, that if, after an
official bond has been signed, the nature of the office be changed
by law, the bond ceases to be obligatory. In such a case the
office is no longer the same, within the meaning of the bond.
Converse v. United States, 21 How. 463.
It follows from these considerations that neither of the special
pleas set up any thing which amounted to a defence to the action. The facts averred exhibited no discharge of the defendant's testator from the obligation of the bond, nor did they
tend to show that he was not responsible for the collector's neglect to account for and pay over whatever money he had received as collector. There was no error, therefore, in striking
out the pleas as impertinent, and in refusing to receive evidence
to support them.
Holding this opinion, we are not called upon to inquire
whether the money received and disbursed by the collector,
"as appearing by the official accounts filed by the plaintiff in
the suit," was all money which it was his duty to receive and
disburse as collector. And we are not to be understood as assenting to the claim that some part of it was not. On this
subject see Broome v. The United States, 15 How. 143.
The next assignment of error requiring attention is, that the
court refused to charge the jury, if they found from the evidence the Secretary of the Treasury required the collector to
use the money received by him in the redemption of treasury
notes, that such requirement was an important and material
change of the duties, functions, and employment of the collector
as required by law, and discharged the sureties in his official
bond from all liability for his subsequent official misconduct.
Enough has already been said to show that such a charge
should not have been given. By the act of 1799, to which we
have referred, it was made the official duty of the collector to
pay the public money in his hands to the order, or according
to the direction of the officer authorized to direct the payment
thereof. Payment of treasury notes, therefore, in pursuance

Oct. 1878.]

GAUSSEN V. UNITED STATES.

of the order of the Secretary, was directly in the line of the
collector's duty as such an officer.
The same remarks are applicable to the refusal, of the court
to affirm the second point proposed by the defendant as instruction to the jury. It would have been error had such
instruction been given. While it may be true that no law
specifically imposed upon the collector the duty of making disbursements for any marine hospital, or for the light-houses or
revenue-cutters, it is not true that such duties "were extraofficial as to the office of collector," if the payments were ordered by the Secretary of the Treasury; for the collector was
bound to pay to his order, as we have seen. Nor could the
court have affirmed that money furnished to the collector from
the treasury of the United States, or from sources other than
the proper receipts and collections, must be shown by the
plaintiff to have been necessary to cover the disbursements
proper to the office of the collector, or that it was furnished for
that purpose. As the law was when the bond was executed,
the government was authorized to furnish money to collectors
for certain purposes, on their requisition. But apart from this,
when the proposition was submitted to the court, the treasury
transcript was in evidence. By law it made out a prima facie
case, and the burden of proof, instead of being upon the plaintiff, was on the defendant to disprove it. Besides, it was
proven by the transcript, and by the accounts furnished to the
lepartment by the collector, that the money he had received
From other sources than collection of customs had all been expended in the payment of debentures, with the sanction of the
rreasury Department. To this there was no contradictory
,vidence. The point proposed by the defendant was, therefore,
,vholly inapplicable to the case.
The remaining assignment is that the court refused to affirm
;he third point in the words in which it was proposed. But
he court did affirm it in substance, and even more broadly
;ban it was presented. The court charged the jury, "that, in
)rder to recover the balance brought down in the present
Ltion, it is incumbent on the government to prove, to the
;atisfaction of the jury, that the said balance brought down
resulted from the failure of the said Barrett (the collector) to
VOL. V11.

38

FORD V. SURGET.

[Sup. Ct.

account for the funds which came into his hands as collector,
and within the scope of his official duties in that office, and
his failure to perform his duty in respect to such funds, and
not from his failure to account for funds received from the
treasury for the extra-judicial purposes, and his failure to perform his duty in respect to such funds." This was an unqualified direction, not dependent upon what the jury might believe
to be proved by the evidence. It was, therefore, more than
the defendant asked.
The case requires nothing further. The plaintiff has recovered a judgment for the sum which the principal obligor in
the bond admitted to be due from him as collector. The judgment includes nothing except an unpaid balance of duties
collected, and we discover no error in the trial.
Judgment affirmed.

FoRD v. SURGET.
1. The court reaffirms the doctrine in Williams v. BruTffy (96 U. S. 176), that an
enactment of the Confederate States, enforced as a law of one of the States
composing that confederation, is a statute of such State, within the meaning
of the act regulating the appellate jurisdiction of this court over the judgments and decrees of the State courts.
2. A., a resident of Adams County, Mississippi, whose cotton was there burnt by
B., in May, 1862, brought an action for its value against the latter, who set
up as a defence that that State, whereof he was at that date a resident, was
then in subjection to and under the control of the "Confederate States;"
that an act of their congress, approved March 6, 1862, declared that it was
the duty of all military commanders in their service to destroy all cotton
whenever, in their judgment, the same should be about to fall into the hands
of the United States; that, in obedience to that act, the commander of their
forces in Mississippi issued an order, directed to his subordinate officers in
that State, to burn all cotton along, the Iississippi River likely to fall into
the hands of the forces of the United States; that the provost-marshal of
that county was charged with executing within it that order; that A.'s
cotton was likely to fall into the hands of the United States; that the
provost-marshal ordered and required B. to burn it; and that B. did burn
it, in obedience to the said act and the orders of that commander and the
provost-marshal. ield, 1. That the said act, as a measure of legislation, can
have no force in any court recognizing the Constitution of the United States
as the supreme law of the land. 2. That it did not assume to confer upon

