GUNTON

V. OARROLL.

[Sup. Ct.

sale upon his own judgment on the ground that the latter was
prematurely entered. The object of notice or citation in all
legal proceedings is to afford to parties having separate or
adverse interests an opportunity to be heard. It is not required
for the protection of the applicant or suitor.
The statute declared that upon the existence of certain facts
the sale of the lunatic's estate might be made, and when these
appeared in the petition of the guardian, the court had jurisdiction to act, so far as his rights were concerned, as fully so as if
the statute had so declared in terms, whatever may be the
effect of its proceedings upon the interests of parties not properly brought before the court. We see no reason, therefore, so
far as his interests are affected, to depart from the doctrine of
Gtrignon'sLessee v. Astor.
Judgment affirmed.

GUNTON v. GARIIOLL.
A. and 3. in November, 1846, entered into an agreement under seal, providing
for the settlement of long standing and disputed accounts. A balance from
B. to A. was ascertained and the mode of payment and security agreed upon.
A. released property of B. from the lien of judgments. B. among other things
stipulated that he would obtain partition of certain lands wherein he had an
undivided interest, and convey in fee the part assigned to him in severalty to
A. at such price as should be adjudged by three appraisers, one to be appointed
by A., one by B. and one by the other two. Such price to be credited on
the judgments held by A. against B. and that the latter would give good
security for the balance remaining due. B. died in 1849. There was no partition until 1866, when it was effected by his devisees, a fact not known to A.
until 1872. They have made to A. no conveyance of the part of said lands
assigned to them in severalty. A. filed his bill in 1876, alleging that ie had
performed all the stipulations on his part to be performed, and that $40,000 of
the original debt with accruing interest remains unpaid, and praying for such
a conveyance, for the ascertainment of the balance under the order of the
court and for general relief. The devisees demurred. .eld, 1. That upon the
case made by the bill, A's remedy was not barred by the lapse of time. 2. That
A. having under the agreement parted with rights, and B. received value, the
consideration of which was in part the stipulation concerning the lands, the
agreement for the conveyance can be specifically enforced and the court
will, if it be necessary, provide a mode for ascertaining the value of the
lands.

Oct. 1879.]

GUNTON V. CARROLL.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. John D. McPherson for the appellants.
Mr. George F. Appleby for the appellees.
MIIR. JUSTICE MKILLER, delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants in their character of trustees of the Bank of
Washington brought this suit against the executors and devisees
of Daniel Carroll. The charter of that bank expired a great
many years ago, and the trustees who conduct its affairs are
acting under a statute of Congress. At the time of the expiration of the charter there was a large indebtedness on his
part to the institution, a portion of which was secured.
There were several judgments against him in favor of the
bank, and he had a suit in chancery for the adjustment of disputed matters in regard to that indebtedness.
On the 3d day of November, 1846, an agreement under seal
was entered into between him and the trustees by which all
their disputes were settled. The sum due by him to the bank
was ascertained, and the mode of payment and security agreed
upon.
This agreement is the foundation of the present suit.
Among other things completed at the time was the payment of
part of his debt, the release of certain real estate from the lien
of the complainants' judgments, and his transfer of judgments
held by him against other persons to the trustees, with an understanding that all moneys thereafter collected on them should be
credited on the judgment of the bank against him. Certain
property known as the Sligo estate, in which he had an undivided interest, was by him to be conveyed to the bank as soon
as he could procure a partition with the other part-owners. He
also covenanted that, after all this was done, he would give good
security for any balance due by him to the bank. As the
agreement with regard to the Sligo property is the matter of
principal importance in this suit we give that part of it verbatim : "The said Daniel Carroll shall forthwith cause, at his
expense, the property known as the Sligo estate, of which he
is the owner of an undivided share, to be legally or equitably
divided between him and the other owner or owners thereof, and

• 428

8 GUNTON

V. CARROLL.

[Sup. Ct.

shall immediately thereafter, by a valid deed, convey the share or
portion of said property which may be allotted to him unto the
i*ustees of the said bank, or as they may direct, in fee simple, at
such price as three competent freeholders -to be selected, one
by the said Daniel Carroll, another by the trustees of said bank,
and the third by the other two appraisers - shall estimate and
adjudge the same to be worth, as if sold on a credit of three
equal payments at one, two, and three years, with interest
thereon payable semi-annually; and the price, on the due execution of said conveyance to the trustees of said bank, or as
they may direct, shall be credited against the said judgments, so as aforesaid held by the bank against said Daniel
Carroll."
Much of the agreement was performed on both sides.
Money was paid and property released. The bill avers that all
which the trustees agreed to do, or could do, was done, and that
there is, including interest, over $40,000 of the original debt
unpaid, and that no security has been given. In reference to
the Sligo property it is alleged that no partition was made by
Carroll in his lifetime - he died in May, 1849- but that his
devisees effected such partition in 1866, and have since sold
some part of the property allotted to them in that partition
and received the purchase-money. It also alleges that the trustees were not a-ware that any such partition had been made until
1872, this suit having been commenced in 1876. They also
set up an attempt, in 1875, to bring these matters before the
court in the original chancery suit, pending -whenthe agreement
-was made, by an amended bill and revivor, which was overruled.
The defendants filed a general demurrer, setting up twenty
grounds of demurrer. It was sustained by the court below and
the bill dismissed.
The demurrer must be overruled, if there be any part of the
bill -which entitles the complainants to relief.
The main ground of the demurrer -the lapse of time since
the cause of action accrued -is relied on in reference both to
the Statute of Limitations and the general doctrine of laches.
If the judgments against Carroll have never been revived by
saire facias or otherwise, the debt which they represented is

Oct. 1879.]

GUNTON V. CARROLL.

barred by limitation, and its collection cannot be enforced by
any proceeding at law. The bill is silent on that subject. It
may admit of doubt whether in the mere absence of any such
allegation the court will raise the presumption of payment on
which the equitable defence is founded. Without deciding
this, we think there is another ground on which defendants
must be put to their answer, and in that answer they can plead
or rely on the statute, or the lapse of time coupled with an
averment that the judgments are no longer alive.
That matter concerns the Sligo property. No bill for specific
performance could have been brought against Carroll or his
devisees before the partition required by the agreement was
made. The delay in making it was that of Carroll and of his
devisees. For this the complainants were in no manner chargeable with laches and should receive no detriment. Frye on
Specific Performance, sect. 740; _Ridgway v. Warton, 6 H. of L.
Cas. 237.
The partition was made in 1866, and the knowledge of it did
not come to the complainants until 1872. If they had known
it as soon as it occurred, six years, under all the circumstances, would not be considered as an unreasonable delay on
their part, in view of the fact that the defendants had taken
twenty years to perform one part of the contract, namely, to
make partition.
In 1872, as soon as they learned that the partition had been
made, the trustees attempted to assert their rights by an effort
to revive the old chancery proceeding out of which the agreement arose. Being defeated in this, they commenced the
present suit in larch, 1876. We think that on the face of
the bill they are not barred by lapse of time. If there are
other matters not shown in the bill which would make that a
bar, no injury can accrue by requiring them to be shown by
way of answer or plea.
It is said, however, in regard to the Sligo property, that the
original contract is one of which a court of equity cannot enforce specific performance, because the price to be paid for it
is not definitely fixed, and a court of equity cannot enforce
the agreement to submit the question of price to the award of
arbitrators.

430

GUNTON V. CARROLL.

[Sup. Ct.

It cannot be successfully disputed that in the general terms
thus stated this is the established equity doctrine. It would be
applicable if this was a case in which the complainants had
agreed to buy and the defendants to sell, the conveyance of the
property, and the actual payment of the price resting in covenants yet to be performed, the latter being the sole consideration of the former.
It is, however, quite otherwise in the matter before us. This
particular clause was only one of many which adjusted longstanding and complicated transactions and compromised a
vexatious litigation. Moneys were paid, liens released, sureties
discharged, and suits settled by this agreement. Under it the
complainants parted with rights and Carroll received value, the
consideration of which was, at least in part, this stipulation
about the Sligo estate.
The contract differs in another particular from the cases cited
to show that it cannot be enforced. The doctrine there rests
upon the ground that the court must be enabled to enforce the
payment of the price simultaneously with compelling the conveyance, and it cannot do this by enforcing an arbitration.
But in the case before us the price was already paid. The
money was in Carroll's hands. The only thing to be done was
to determine how much of his debt to the bank was to be satisfied by the conveyance. The case is, therefore, one in which
the land was sold to the bank and the purchase-money left in
the hands of the vendor. By the terms of the agreement, Carroll was to convey immediately after partition, and then the
price was to be ascertained. If he had conveyed, as it was his
duty to do, or if his heirs had conveyed as soon as they had
made partition, the conveyance would not be rescinded because
they could not agree upon the price or upon arbitrators. With
the title in the complainants and the money in possession of
defendants, a court would find a way to ascertain the credit to
be allowed on Carroll's debt to the bank.
Another -view is the probability that CarrolFs debt as to
every thing else is barred, and that the debt is three or four
times the value of this property. So that its valuation is a
mere form, immaterial to either party.
In view of a court of equity, a contract for the sale of land is

Oct. 1879.]

GUNTON V. CARROLL.

treated, says Mlr. Justice Story, for most purposes, precisely as
if it had been specifically performed. The vendee is treated
as the owner of the land and the vendor as the owner of the
money. The vendor is deemed in equity to stand seised of
the land for the benefit of the purchaser, and the trust attaches
to the land so as to bind the heir of the vendor. 1 Story Eq.
Jur. sect. 790, and the cases there cited. Of course the Equity
here stated is stronger when the purchase-money is actually
in the hands of the vendor.
Nor is the principle inflexible that the court will not specifically enforce the contract where the price is not fixed or is left
to be fixed by arbitration.
Cgieslyn v. Dalby (2 Y. & C. 170) is very much like the
present case. Cheslyn being indebted to Thomas Dalby in a
large unliquidated sum, gave a deed of trust for money borrowed at the time from another party, with a stipulation that
it should also stand as a security for the unliquidated debt of
Dalby to be afterwards ascertained by arbitration. Cheslyn
having paid the principal sum secured by that deed, brought
suit for a reconveyance, and Dalby filed a cross-bill to have his
debt paid out of the property before this was done. The objection was raised that this was in the nature of a specific
execution of the deed, which the court would not decree, as the
amount was uncertain, and could not be ascertained in the
stipulated mode, as no award had been made and the umpire
was dead. But the objection was overruled.
Alderson, B., says: "This agreement is composed of two
distinct parts: 1. It is admitted there is some balance due to
Thomas Dalby, and it is agreed that the estate is to be subject
to a lien for that balance. But, 2dly, there is also an agreement as to a specific mode of ascertaining that balance in case
of dispute. Now, the latter has failed by events over which
the parties had no control. But it seems to me that, notwithstanding this, the former part remains entire, and if Mr. Cheslyn has admitted that there is a balance due, and has by a
deed, executed under such circumstances as that it ought to be
enforced, agreed that his estate should be subject to a lien for
that balance, why am I to decree a reconveyance of the estate
without compelling him to fulfil that part of the agreement ?"

GUNTON V. CARROLL.

[Sup. Ct.

It was accordingly referred to a master to state an account in
which this unascertained balance of Dalby's debt should be
included.
In the present case, Carroll made his agreement, in which a
balance ascertained was admitted to be due; the land was to
stand in part payment of this balance. He died before arbitrators could be appointed to fix the sum at which the estate
should be taken. The demurrer admits all this.
l)inham v. Bradford (Law Rep. 5 Ch. 519) is another case
in which where one partner was in a certain event to take the
partnership assets at a valuation to be ascertained precisely as
in the case before us, Lord Hatherley said: "Here is a man
who has had the whole benefit of the partnership in respect of
which this agreement was made, and now he refuses to have
the rest of the agreement performed on account of the difficulty which has arisen. . . . If the valuation cannot be made
modo et formd the court will substitute itself for the arbitrators."
So of the case before us. Carroll has all the benefit of the
agreement, in releasing property from liens, in paying his debt
by his claims on others, and in a long indulgence, and now, because he has died without appointing arbitrators, his heirs say
this part of the agreement must fail.
We think on the whole the demurrer should be overruled, and
defendants put to their answer, and for this purpose the decree
of the court below will be reversed, and the case remanded to
it for further proceedings, and it is
So ordered.

