Oct. 1879.]

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

the facts proven in the case (and not contradicted), the plaintiff was not entitled to recover upon any of the seventeen bonds,
because the supervisor and commissioners did not issue them
for borrowed money, but transferred them to the railroad company in payment of the stock subscription.
We find no other error in the record.
The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded for a
new trial; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTIOE CLIFFORD and MR. JUSTICE SwAY E dis-

sented.

DOUGLASS v. COUXTY OF PIKE.
1. The court reviews the legislation and judicial decisions of Missouri, whereby
the constitutionality of an act of the General Assembly, entitled "An Act
to facilitate the construction of railroads in the State of Missouri," approved
March 23, 1868, was recognized and affirmed long after the county authorities had issued, pursuant to its provisions, the bonds whereon this suit was
brought. The court in this case adheres to its ruling in accordance with
those decisions, as announced in County of Cass v. Johnston (95 U. S. 360),
although the Supreme Court of Missouri has since declared that act to be
in conflict with sect. 14, art. 11, of the Constitution, adopted by that State
in 1865.
2. Where municipal bonds have been put upon the market as commercial paper,
the rights of the parties thereto are to be determined according to the
statutes of the State as they were then construed by her highest court;
and in a case involving those rights this court will not be governed by any
subsequent decision in conflict with that under which they accrued.
3. The settled judicial construction of a statute, so far as contract rights were
thereunder acquired, is as much a part of the statute as the text itself, and
a change of decision is the same in its effect on pre-existing contracts as a
repeal or an amendment by legislative enactment.
ERROR to the Circuit Court
Eastern District of Missouri.
This was an action by Joseph
and twenty-one overdue coupons
the county of Pike, Missouri.

form:

-

of the United States for the
M. Douglass on three hundred
detached from bonds issued by
The bonds are in the following

"No.

-.

]

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

[Sup. Ct.

STATE OF Missount.

[$500.00.

PrIo

COUNTY BOND.

"Issued in payment of Stock of the Pike County Short Line Railroad Company.
"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Pike, in
the State of Missouri, acknowledges itself indebted and firmly
bound to the Pike County Short Line Railroad Company in the
sum of five hundred dollars, which sum the said county promises to
pay to the said Pike County Short Line Railroad Company, or
bearer, at the National Bank of the State of Missouri, in St. Louis,
Mo., on the first day of January, AM.. 1892, with interest thereon
from the first day of January, A.D. 1872, at the rate of ten per cent
per annum; which interest shall be payable semi-annually on the
presentation and delivery at said National Bank, of the coupons of
interest hereto attached; this bond being issued under and pursuant
to an order of the county court of Pike County, by authority of
an act of the General Assembly of the State of Missouri, approved
March 23, 1868, entitled ' An Act to facilitate the construction of
railroads in the State of Missouri,' and authorized by vote of the
people of Cuivre Township, in said county, taken as required by
law, Feb. 7, 1871.
"In testimony whereof, the said county of Pike has executed
this bond, by the presiding justice of the county court of said
county, under the order thereof, signing his name hereto, and by the
clerk of said court, under the order thereof, attesting the same and
affixing the seal of said court; this done at Bowling Green, county
of Pike aforesaid, this first day of January, A.D. 1872.
A. G. GrFITr,
[SEA.]
"Presiding Justice of County Court of Pike County, Missouri.
H. C. CAMPBELI,
"Attest:
"Clerk of County Court of Pike County, Missouri.
The declaration avers that the county, in behalf of said
township, subscribed for and received and retains the stock of
said railroad company to an amount equal to the bonds, and
paid the coupons falling due up to Jan. 1, 1876; that the road
was built through the township; that the subscription was
authorized by a vote duly taken, as required by law, on the
seventh day of February, 1871; that he is the holder for value
of the coupons sued on, and that he duly presented them for

Oct. 1879.]

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

payment at said bank as they became due, and that payment
was refused.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the defendant on its
demurrer to the plaintiff's declaration, the question involved
being the constitutionality of the act whereof mention is made
in the bonds.
The plaintiff thereupon sued out this writ of error.
Mr. John H. Overall and Mr. FPrederick N. Judson for the
plaintiff in error.
Xr. George F. -Edmundsand Mr. Thomas J. C. Fagg for the
defendant in error.
MR. CHiEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
We are asked to reconsider our decision in County of Cass v.
Johnston (95 U. S. 360), because since that case the Supreme
Court of Missouri, in State, ex rel. Woodson, v. Brassfield
(67 Mo. 331), and Webb v. Ea Fayette County (id. 353), has
held the Township Aid Act, which we sustained, to be unconstitutional. The question presented, as we view it, is not
so much whether these late decisions are right, as whether they
should be followed in cases having reference to bonds put out
and in the bands of innocent purchasers when they were announced. In the Cass County case we said that the Supreme
Court of the State had often been called on to construe and
give effect to the act, and had never before that time in a
single instance expressed even a doubt as to its validity. We
have again examined all the cases, and find that what we then
said was true. Judge Dillon, who filled the office of circuit
judge in the eighth circuit with such distinguished ability
during nearly all the time the act was in operation, from its
original passage until after the recent decisions, remarked in
Ifesterman v. Cape GirardeauCounty, 7 Cent. Law Jour. 354:
"A hundred cases - and I do not think I exaggerate - have
been brought on these township bonds in the Federal courts of
this State, and prior to the decision in ffarshman v. Bates Co.
(92 U. S. 569), none of the able lawyers defending these cases
ever made a point that the act of March 23, 1868, was unconstitutional." The reason is obvious. At the very outset it

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

[Slip. at.

:was thought best to take the opinion of the Supreme Court of
the State on that subject. The act went into operation in
1868, and in 1869 The State v. Linn County (44 Mo. 504) was
decided. There a township had voted to subscribe to the stock
of a railroad company, and the county court had made the subscription; but after this was done the court refused "to deliver
the bonds, for the alleged reason, only, that the act under which
the subscription was made was unconstitutional and void." An
application was then made for a mandamus to compel the
delivery of the bonds; and the only questions presented by the
counsel for the respondent in the argument of the case, as
shown by the report, were those of constitutionality, and especially was it urged that the act was repugnant to art. 11, sect. 14,
which, quoting from the opinion, " declares the General Assembly shall not authorize any county, city, or town to become a
stockholder in, or loan its credit to, any company, association,
or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of such
county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to be held
therein, shall assent thereto." All the objections presented
were considered by the court, and in conclusion it was said,
"The county court having made the subscription, the company
is entitled to the bonds." It is quite true that the precise
objection which has since been raised was not then urged or
considered; but the alleged discrepancy between the act and
the Constitution was just as apparent then as it is now, and
Judge Dillon, in Foote v. Johnson County (6 Cent. Law Jour.
846), says: "Suits in great numbers on these township bonds
have been brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for
this district, and they have been defended by the ablest lawyers
in the State, upon every ground that they condeived open to
them; but this difference between the phraseology of the Constitution and the act, so patent that it could not escape attention, was never presented or urged in any case, so far as either
of us recollect, as invalidating the act." In County of Cass v.
J-ohnstons, we attributed this to the fact that in other cases it
had been substantially decided that the language of the act
and that of the Constitution were in legal effect the same, and
we at that time took occasion to look somewhat critically into
the rulings on that subject. We have again examined that

Oct. 1879.]

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OP PIKE.

question, and are satisfied with the correctness of our former
conclusion. It is thought, however, that we did not give
sufficient effect to Sate v. Sutterfield, 54 Mo. 391. As to that,
we said the question presented related to another clause of the
Constitution, and that the decision was placed expressly on the
ground of a difference between the two provisions. In this it
is urged we were in error. The clause of the Constitution there
under consideration was art. 4, sect. 30, which is: "The General
Assembly shall have no power to remove the county seat of any
county, unless two-thirds of the qualified voters of the county,
at a general election, shall vote in favor of such removal."
Under this provision of the Constitution a statute was passed
providing for elections in such cases, to the effect, "if it shall
appear by such election that two-thirds of the legally registered
voters of said county are in favor of the removal of the county
seat of such county, then," &c. In the opinion the court say:
"There is no doubt that in general, when an election is held
to determine the choice of a candidate, or the determination of
some question of public policy, the plurality required by law,
whether it be a bare majority, or two-thirds or three-fourths, is
determined by the result of the vote cast, without regard to the
number declining to vote; and this is upon the ground that a
failure to vote is assumed, or may be presumed, to be an
acquiescence in whatever result may be produced by the action
of those who feel a sufficient interest in the election to go to
the polls and vote, and for the further reason that in most
cases there is no mode by which the number of absentees can
be ascertained. . . . Our Constitution in regard to the proposed
removal of county seats, it seems to me, hardly admits of two
constructions. It prohibits the legislature from removing them
unless two-thirds of the qualified voters shall, at a general
election, vote for the removal. The words do not imply an
acquiescence or negative sanction, or a negative assent inferred
from absence, but a positive vote in the affirmative, and the
number of votes required is specifically named, and there is no
difficulty in ascertaining what that number is, since the same
Constitution provides for a registration, and points out who
qualified voters are; and the statute in this case uses the words
'legally registered voters,' and requires two-thirds of them to

682

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

[Sup. Ct.

vote for the change." The court then refers to Bassett v. The
'Mayor of St. Joseph (37 Mo. 270), State. v. Binder (88 id.
450), and State v. Wincelmeier (35 id. 103), and says: "In
none of these cases, however, was there any examination of, or
construction given to, the precise language of the constitutional
provision now under consideration. . . . The present case,
however, presents very different considerations. The question
of removing county seats was regarded by the framers of the
Constitution as of sufficient importance to require very stringent
provisions in that instrument, and an examination of the laws
in force on this subject, at the time of the adoption of the new
Constitution, will show the great importance of requiring a
strict compliance with its provisions." We think, then, we
were not in error in supposing that the court believed there
was an essential difference between the two provisions of the
Constitution, and especially so as the judge who delivered
the opinion of the court in State v. Sutterfield, by his dissent
in the later cases of State v. Brassfield and Webb v. La aFayette
County, clearly indicates his disapproval of the effect upon the
question now under consideration which was then given that
case.
The legislative recognition of the difference between these
two clauses of the Constitution is equally apparent. The Constitution went into effect in July, 1865, and it became the duty
of the legislature, at its next session, which commenced in
November, to adapt the old laws to the new order of things.
In this connection, it must be borne in mind that the provision
for a registration of voters was first introduced into the policy
of the State by this new Constitution.
The then existing law regulating the removal of county seats
provided that "whenever three-fifths of the taxable inhabitants
of any county, as ascertained by the tax-list made and returned
last preceding the application, shall petition the county court
praying a removal of the seat of justice thereof to a designated
place, the court shall appoint five commissioners," &c. Rev.
Stat. Mo. 1855, p. 514, sect. 1. To meet the requirements of
the new Constitution on this subject, an election was provided
for, and it was enacted that if it should appear by such election
that two-thirds of "the legally registered voters" were in favor

Oct. 1879.]

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

of the removal, commissioners should be appointed to perform the same duties prescribed in the old law. Gen. Stat.
Mo. 1865, p. 223, sects. 20-22. Here it is evident the
legislature had in mind both the provision for registration
of voters and the somewhat unusual requirement that twothirds of the qualified voters of the county should vote for the
measure.
The old law respecting the subscription by the county courts
to the capital stock of railroad corporations was as follows:
"It shall not be lawful for the county court of any county to
subscribe to the capital stock of any railroad company, unless
the same has been voted for by a majority of the resident voters
who shall vote at such election under the provisions of this act."
Acts of 1860-61, p. 60, sect. 2. In adapting this to the new
constitutional requirements, this is the language used: "It
shall be lawful for the county court of any county, the city
council of any city, or the trustees of any incorporated town, to
take stock, &c., provided that two-thirds of the qualified voters
of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special election to
be held therein, shall assent to such subscription." Gen. Stat.
Mo. 1865, p. 338, sect. 17. This, it will be seen, is the exact
language of the Constitution itself, and the intention evidently
was to leave its meaning to be ascertained by judicial construction. By another statute passed at the same session of the
legislature, the charter of the city of St. Joseph, which had
before authorized subscriptions to the capital stock of railroad
companies if a majority of the real estate owners in the city
sanctioned the same, was amended so as to require that question
to be submitted "to a vote of the qualified voters of said city,
and in all such cases it shall require two-thirds of such qualified
voters to sanction the same." Acts of 1865-66, p. 269, sect. 1.
At the same session, in amending the charter of the town of
Clarksville, evidently to accomplish the same object, this is the
language employed: "After first having obtained the consent
of the inhabitants, as required by the Constitution of the State."
Id. p. 254, sect. 1.
At the February Term, 1866, of the Supreme Court of the
State, that court was called on, in Bassett v. The lkayor of St.
tfoseph (37 Mo. 270), to give a construction to the act amend-

'684

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

[Sup. Ct.

ing the charter of St. Joseph. Under that act an election was
held on the 13th of January, 1866, to vote upon the question of
an issue of bonds, and four hundred and four votes were polled,
of which three hundred and thirty-six were in favor of and fifty-eight against the measure. The mayor refused to sign the
bonds after the vote had been taken, and a mandamuswas asked
to require him to do so. The only reason he gave for declining
to sign the bonds was, that "he was in doubt whether the mat,ter was to be determined by two-thirds of the votes polled at
the special election, or by two-thirds of all the voters resident
in the city, absolutely, whether voting or not." In the argument in support of the application for the writ, the attention of
the court was called to the fact that there was "no registry law
-by which the qualified voters in the city could be ascertained,"
and it was further said, "the votes cast at the last election for
city officers and the votes cast at said subsequent election furnish the only correct criterion to ascertain the number of qualified voters in the city at the time said special election was
held." In the opinion, mention is also made of the number of
votes polled at the next preceding election; but the court, after
stating the exact question put by the mayor as indicating his
own doubts, uses this direct and unmistakable language: "We
think it was sufficient that two-thirds of the qualified voters
who voted at the special election authorized for the express
purpose of determining that question, on public notice duly
given, voted in favor of the proposition. This was the mode
provided by law for ascertaining the sense of the qualified
voters on that question. There would appear to be no other
practicable way in which this matter could be determined." It
is true, the bonds voted at this election were not to be used in
payment of subscriptions to the stock of railroad companies,
but the law construed was the one in which provision was made
for such subscriptions. Following this, at the October Term,
1866, of the same court, was the case of State v. Binder (38
Mo. 450), in which similar language in another statute was
construed, and Bassett v. The Mayor of &. Joseph cited as
establishing the doctrine "that an election of this kind authorized for the very purpose of determining that question, on
public notice duly given, was the mode contemplated by the

Oct. 1879.]

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

legislature as well as by the law for ascertaining the sense of
the legal voters upon the question submitted, and that there
could not well be any other practicable way in which such a
matter could be determined. And," continues the court, "certainly, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, it may
be presumed that the voters voting at an election so held were
all the legal voters of the city; or, that all those who did not
see fit to vote (if there were any) acquiesced in the action of
those who did vote, and so are to be considered as equally bound
and concluded by the result of the election. R-ex v. 1?oxeroft,
2 Burr. 1017; Wilcox on Corp. 546." Certainly, after these
two decisions, made under the circumstances that attended
them, and with the mind of the court directed by counsel in
their argument to the registration laws, it might fairly be
assumed by the legislature to have been judicially determined
that the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters voting at
an election duly called and notified, was the legal equivalent of
the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of an election
precinct. Hence it was that at the session of the legislature
which began in January, 1868, and as soon, probably, as the
effect of these decisions had become generally understood, to
avoid all future doubts as to what was meant, the equivalent
language, as construed by the courts, was used, instead of that
of the Constitution itself. And so we find not only in the Township Aid Act, but in other acts depending for their authority on
the same clause of the Constitution, the requisite assent- of those
voting at an election was deemed by the legislature to be the
assent of the qualified voters.
It was under this state of facts and the law that The State v.
Linn C'ounty (supra) was heard and decided. Other objections
to its constitutional validity than those which had formerly
been considered were raised, argued, and decided in favor of the
law. From that time forward, and until long after the issue of
the bonds now in question, the law was treated by the courts
and the people as valid and constitutional. No lawyer asked
for a professional opinion on that subject could have hesitated
to say that it had been settled. It would seem as though every
question which could be raised had in some form, directly or
indirectly, been presented and decided. While some of the'

DOUGLASS V. COUNTY OF PIKE.

[Sup. Ct.

decisions were rendered before the passage of the township
act, it is so clear that the peculiar language of that act was
the consequence of those decisions that we do not deem it
unreasonable to give them all the effect they would have if
made afterwards.
We are, then, to consider whether, under these circumstances, we must follow the later decisions to the extent of
destroying rights which have become vested under those given
before. As a rule, we treat the construction which the highest
court of a State has given a statute of the State as part of the
statute, and govern ourselves accordingly; but where different
constructions have been given to the same statute at different times, we have never felt ourselves bound to follow the
latest decisions, if thereby contract rights which have accrued
under earlier rulings will be injuriously affected. The language
of Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in Bowan v. Runnels (5 How.
134), expresses the true rule on this subject. He said, p. 139:
"Undoubtedly this court will always feel itself bound to respect
the decisions of the State courts, and, from the time they are
made, regard them as conclusive in all cases upon the construction of their own laws. But we ought not to give them a
retroactive effect, and allow them to render invalid contracts
entered into with citizens of other States which, in the judgment of this court, were lawfully made." Afterwards, in Ohio
Life Insurance and Trust Co. v. Debolt (16 How. 416), the same
learned Chief Justice, after reiterating what he had before
said in Rowan v. .Runnels, uses this language: "It is true the
language of the court in that case is confined to contracts with
citizens of other States, because it was a case of that description
which was then before it. But the principle applies with equal
force to all contracts which come within its jurisdiction." This
distinction has many times been recognized and acted upon.
Supervisors v. United States, 18 Wall. 71; Fairfield v. County
of Gallatin, 100 U. S. 47. Indeed, if a contrary rule was
adopted, and the comityr due to State decisions pushed to the
extent contended for, "it is evident," to use again the language
of Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in Rowan v. Runnels, "that the
provision of the Constitution of the United States, which secures
to the citizens of another State the right to sue in the courts of

Oct. 1879.]

DOUGLASS V. O0UNTY OF PIKE.

the United States, might become utterly useless and nugatory."
The true rule is to give a change of judicial construction in respect to a statute the same effect in its operation on contracts
and existing contract rights that would be given to a legislative
amendment; that is to say, make it prospective, but not retroactive. After a statute has been settled by judicial construction, the construction becomes, so far as contract rights acquired
under it are concerned, as much a part of the statute as the
text itself, and a change of decision is to all intents and purposes the same in its effect on contracts as an amendment of
the law by means of a legislative enactment.
So far as this case is concerned, we have no hesitation in
saying that the rights of the parties are to be determined
according to the law as it was judicially construed to be when
the bonds in question were put on the market as commercial
paper. We recognize fully, not only the right of a State court,
but its duty to change its decisions whenever, in its judgment,
the necessity arises. It may do this for new reasons, or because
of a change of opinion in respect to old ones; and ordinarily we
will follow them, except so far as they affect rights vested
before the change was made. The rules which properly govern
courts, in respect to their past adjudications, are well expressed
in Boyd v. Alabama (94 U. S.645), where we spoke through
Mr. Justice Field. If the Township Aid Act had not been
repealed by the new Constitution of 1875 (art. 9, sect. 6),
which took away from all municipalities the power of subscribing to the stock of railroads, the new decisions would be
binding in respect to all issues of bonds after they were made;
but we cannot give them a retroactive effect without impairing
the obligation of contracts long before entered into. This we
feel ourselves prohibited by the Constitution of the United
States from doing. We always regret to find ourselves in
conflict with the courts of the States in matters affecting local
law, but when necessary we cannot refrain from acting on
our own judgment without abrogating our constitutional jurisdiction.
For these reasons, the judgment of the Circuit Court will be
reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to overrule
the demurrer to the petition, and take such further proceedings,

CASE V. BEAUREGARD.

[Sup. Ct.

not inconsistent -with this opinion, as law and justice may
require; and it is
So ordered.
NoTE. -In Darlington v. County of Jackson, error to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Missouri, which was argued by Mr.
John B. Henderson for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. John C. Gage for the
defendant in error, and in Foote v. County of Pike, error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, which was argued by Mr.
John B. Hendersonand Mr. Odon Guitarfor the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. George
F. Edmunds, 3r. Thomas J. C. Fagg, and Mr. Fillmore Beall for the defendant in
error, ME. CHiER JusTicE WAITI delivered the opinion of the court, reversing the judgments below on the authority of Douglass v. County of Pike, supra,
p. 677.

CASE

v.

BEAUREGARD.

1. A. filed his bill claiming that he, as a creditor of a commercial firm, all the
members of which were insolvent, had a prior lien or privilege upon the
partnership property which had been transferred by them in payment of
their individual debts, and seeking to subject that property to the payment
of his debt. The bill, on a final hearing upon the pleadings and proofs, was
dismissed. A. thereupon commenced a suit for the same cause of action
against the same parties, alleging, in addition to the matters set forth in his
former bill, that he had recovered a judgment at law against the partnership for the debt, and that an execution issued thereon had been returned
nulla bona. Held, that the former decree is as resjudicataa bar to the suit.
2. Whenever a creditor has a trust in his favor, or a lien upon property for
the debt due him, he may go into equity without exhausting his remedy
at law.
AIPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts out of which this case arises are stated in Case v.
Beauregard,99 U. S. 119. The bill in each case is in every essential particular the same, except that here the additional allegation is made that the complainant, as receiver, had brought
an action at law and recovered judgment against Beauregard
and May, as partners; that Graham, the other partner, was
beyond the reach of process; and that an execution upon the
judgment was returned nulla bona. The defendants pleaded

