KETCHUM V. ST. Louis.

[Sup. at.

these circumktances, it would be unjust to reverse the personal
judgment for the amount of the debt. We are only required
to reverse that portion of it which depends upon the attachment.
The judgment is therefore affirmed, except as to the last
clause thereof, -which gives a "privilege upon the property attached, with recourse on the principal and sureties on the bond
upon- which the property attached was released;" and as to
that part it is reversed with costs.

So ordered.

KETOHUM v. ST. Louis.
1. The act of the General Assembly of Missouri, approved Jan. 7, 1805, under
which the county of St. Louis loaned its bonds to the extent of $700,000,
to the Pacific Railroad Company created, on its acceptance by the company and the county, an equitable lien or charge, in favor of the county,
upon the earnings of the road, to the extent necessary to meet the interest
upon the bonds as it accrues. The lien continues until the bonds shall be
paid.
2. All purchasers of the property of the company, or of its bonds issued under
a mortgage subsequently executed, are bound to take notice of that act.
Where, in a suit to foreclose such a mortgage, the road is placed under the
charge of a receiver, the lien or charge in favor of the county is enforceable not only against the fund in his hands, but against the purchaser
under the decree, and against whomsoever may hold the road or have the
custody of its earnings.
3. Where a debtor, by an agreement with a creditor, sets apart a fixed portion
of a specific fund in the hands, or to come into the hands, of another person,
whom he directs to pay it to the creditor, the agreement is, when assented
to by such person, an appropriation, binding upon the parties and all
who, having notice, subsequently claim under the debtor an interest in
the fund.
4. A party may, by agreement, create a charge or claim in the nature of a lien
on real as well as on personal property whereof he is the owner or in possession, which a court of equity will enforce against him, and volunteers
or claimants under him with notice of the agreement.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1879.]

KETCHUM v. ST. Louis.

Mr. Melville C. Day and Mr. James 0. Broadhead for the
appellants.
Mr. Philip Pillips, Mr. Henry A. Clover, Mr. Britton A.
Hill, and 31r. Frank J. Bowman, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLA-w delivered the opinion of the court.

The present appeal brings before us for examination a decree
of the Circuit Court rendered April 25, 1877, adjudging that
the county of St. Louis bad an equitable lien or charge upon
the earnings of the Pacific Railroad of Missouri, to whomsoever the same may be transferred or conveyed, prior and
paramount to any mortgage or other lien thereon, to the extent
of $4,000 per month, payable mofithly, from the first day of
April, 1876, and 81,000 payable in each month of December,
to meet the interest upon $700,000 of bonds issued by the
county of St. Louis in the year 1875, and by it loaned to the
Pacific Railroad Company, such payments to continue until
the bonds are fully paid by the company.
The decree declared the lien to exist, and to be enforceable
on the railroad property and franchises, against the funds in
the bands of the receiver in this suit as well as the purchaser under the mortgage foreclosure sale to be hereafter
referred to.
The learned judge who heard this cause in the Circuit
Court rested the decree upon the proposition of law that "if a
debtor by a concluded agreement with a creditor sets apart a
specific amount of a specific fund in the hands, or to come into
the hands, of another from a designated source, and directs such
person to pay it to the creditor, which he assents to do, this is
a specific appropriation binding upon the parties and upon all
persons with notice who subsequently claim an interest in the
fund under the debtor."
Was there an agreement of the character indicated in this
statement ?
That is the first question to which we shall direct our attention.
The Pacific Railroad Company was incorporated by the
legislature of Missouri in the year 1849, with power to construct a line of railway from St. Louis to Kansas City, a dis-

808

KEvcnum v. ST. Louis.

[Sup. Ct.

tance of nearly three hundred miles.' For the purpose of aiding in the construction of the road, the State from time to time
loaned its bonds to the company. They amounted in the year
1855 to more than $7,000,000, and were secured by a first
mortgage upon the property, franchises, and income of the
company, with power of sale upon default in meeting the
interest and principal of the bonds. Less than two hundred
miles of the road was completed at the beginning of the recent
civil war, and during its continuance but little progress was
made in the work of construction.
f By an act approved Feb. 10, 1864, the company was authorized to borrow money "for the completion of the main road to
Kansas City," and, for that purpose, to issue its bonds to the
amount of $1,500,000, "to be secured by a first mortgage on the
main line of the road west of Dresden," - so much of the bonds
as were necessary to be applied to the completion of the road
from its then terminus to Kansas City, and to no other purpose.
For that object, and to that amount and extent only, the State,
by the express words of the act, relinquished her first mortgage
lien and right of forfeiture upon the road west of Dresden, retaining, however, a second lien and mortgage thereon, -such
second lien and mortgage to become forthwith, upon the payment in full of the principal and interest of the bonds authorized by that act, the first lien and mortgage, in every respect
and as fully as those held by the State.
The act created the office of fund commissioner, to be filled
by appointment of the governor, subject to confirmation by the
Senate. It declared that such office should "continue until the
bonds issued for the completion of the road, and the State bonds
loaned to said railroad company, with interest' thereon, are fully
paid out of the earnings, or exchanged for the first-mortgage
bonds of said road," as thereinafter provided. The fund commissioner became entitled, and it was made his duty, to take
possession of the $1,500,000 of bonds authorized to be issued,
negotiate the same, and their proceeds, together with the gross
earnings of the road, from whatever source, to control and apply
as directed in the act.
Without referring to other provisions of the act, it is sufficient
to say that the State, through the fund commissioner, acquired,

Oct. 1879.]

KETCHUMt V. ST. Louis.

for its security, complete control of the earnings and income
arising from the property.
Following the course of events in the history of this railroad,
we find that in September, 1864, the State of Missouri was invaded by insurrectionary forces, which destroyed much of the
property belonging to the company, including bridges, depots,
machine-shops, and track. The cost of repairing the injury
thus done and of completing and putting the road in successful
operation was estimated by the board of directors at the sum of
8700,000. These facts were communicated to the county court
of St. Louis County by a committee of the board, in a memorial,
stating: "This sum we have lost as the result of the invasion.
This amount we want the county to provide by issuing to the
company the bonds of the county (under authority to be given
by the legislature), bearing seven per cent interest, the same
to be a loan to complete the road, the company to refund to the
county the principal and interest as the same matures."
The memorial concluded in these words: "If completed, we
believe that the earnings of the road will soon furnish all the
equipments required for the increased business, pay off the
$1,500,000 mortgage, provide for the payment of the county
bonds now asked for, and in six or seven years commence paying on the bonds issued by the State for our benefit. But
should the financial success of the enterprise not equal our expectations, the importance of the road as a great artery of trade
and commerce will justify the expenditure asked for."
The justices composing the county court seem to have concurred in the propriety of the loan, but differed as to the conditions upon which it should be made. One of their number
presented for adoption an order reciting the conditions which,
in his judgment, should be embodied in any law authorizing
bonds to be issued, viz. that the State should relinquish so
much of its mortgage upon the road as covered the rolling-stock,
which should then be mortgaged by the company to the county
as security for the $700,000 of bonds to be issued; that the
company should pay into the county treasury, at least thirty
days prior to the maturity of the interest, the full amount thereof, in default of which the whole debt should become due, with
power in the county to foreclose the mortgage; and, finally,

KETCHUM v. ST. Louis.

[Sup. Or.

that the proposed act should be submitted for acceptance or
rejection to the actual tax-payers of the county.
- Another member of the county court offered as a substitute
the draft of an order embodying, among other things, an act to
be submitted to the legislature authorizing the proposed issue
of bonds. This substitute declared that, in view of the importance of the completion of the road to the tax-payers of the
county, the court would concur (in case application should be
made by the company) in the propriety of the passage of an
act "securing the completion of said road and the interest of
the county of St. Louis in the said bonds." The proposed act
contained this provision: "Said bonds to be issued under such conditions as may be agreed
upon between said county court and the board of directors of the
Pacific Railroad; and the fund commissioner of the Pacific Railroad
Company shall pay every month $4,000, and $1,000 additional each
month of December, to the treasurer of St. Louis County, to meet
the interest on the above seven hundred bonds; said payments to
continue until said bonds are paid by the Pacific Railroad Company."
The substitute was adopted by the county court, and, being
submitted to the legislature of Missouri, that body, on the 7th
of January, 1865, passed an act containing additional provisions.
It is here given at length, since the case depends mainly, if not
altogether, upon the construction which may be given to its
provisions: "SECT. 1. The county court of St. Louis County is hereby authorized to issue seven hundred county bonds of the denomination of
$1,000 each, having twenty years to run, and bearing interest at the
rate of seven per cent per annum, payable semi-annually, the principal and interest payable in the city of New York, and loan said
bonds to the Pacific Railroad Company for the completion of said
road; said bonds to be issued under such conditions as may be
agreed upon between said county court and the board of directors
of the Pacific Railroad Company, such conditions to be binding on
the parties, but shall not impair or affect the validity of the bonds
after they are issued.
"SECT. 2. The fund commissioner of the Pacific Railroad, or such
person as may at any time hereafter have the custody of the funds

Oct. 1879.]

KETCHUM V. ST. Louis.

of said railroad company, shall, every month after said bonds are
issued, pay into the county treasury of St. Louis County, out of the
earnings of said Paoific Railroad, $4,000, and $1,000 additional in
each month of December, to meet the interest on the said seven
hundred bonds; said payments to continue until said bonds are paid
off by the Pacif.c Railroad.
"This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage."
This act was accepted by the railroad company. It expressly
agreed to comply with all its provisions. In conformity therewith bonds were issued by the county and delivered to the railroad company as follows: One hundred bonds on 20th February,
1875, two hundred bonds on 7th March, 1875, and four hundred bonds on 5th May, 1875. They were sold by the company, and the proceeds applied in the completion of the road to
Kansas City.
On 15th of July, 1868, the company executed a first mortgage
on its franchises and property for $7,000,000; on 1st of July,
1871, a second mortgage for $3,000,000; arid on 10th July, 1875,
a third mortgage for $4,000,000, - the latter being the same
mortgage which was foreclosed by decree rendered on 6th June,
1876, in Pacific Railroadv. Ketchum, szpra, p. 289. The decree
of foreclosure and sale in that case was passed in the Circuit
Court, and has been affirmed here, at the present term, but without prejudice to the lien claim of St. Louis County.
In view of these and other facts to be presently detailed, it is
difficult to believe that the officers of the company had any
expectation whatever that the county would make a loan of
8700,000, without security of some sort, and upon the bare
promise or covenant of a railroad corporation, staggering under
an enormous indebtedness and without credit, that it would
meet the interest upon the loan. We have seen that the committee appointed by the company to seek financial aid from the
county expressed, officially, the belief that upon the completion
of the road its earnings would soon furnish all the equipments.
required for increased business, pay off the $1,500,000 mortgage,
provide for the payment of the county bonds then asked for,
and in six or seven years thereafter commence paying on the
bonds issued by the State for the benefit of the company. But

KETCHUM V. ST. Louis.

[Sup. at.

more significant as to the intention of the company and as to
the impression which it sought to produce upon the county
court is the fact that, immediately upon the passage of the act,
the president of the railroad company, with a view, of course,
to influence the action of the county court, presented to that
body the written opinion of its counsel, prepared with unusual
care, in which he declared: 1. That if the act should be accepted by the company, and the county should make the loan
authorized, the act would be binding upon all the parties, in
favor of the county court, to wit, the company, the fund commissioner, and the State. 2. That an agreement executed by
the company expressing its assent to such appropriation of the
earnings of the road would create in favor of the county an
equitable lien or charge upon the earnings, pro tanto. 3. That
the direct authorization of such appropriation of the earnings,
or rather the direction to the fund commissioner (the trustee)
to pay this monthly appropriation out of funds, to the benefit of
which it (the State) was entitled, was unquestionably a waiver
or postponement of the interest of the State, cestui que trust, in
favor of the county, to the extent and for the purpose specified
in the act.
"The act," said counsel, "admits of no other congtruction."
That opinion was filed and preserved by the clerk of the county
court among its records.
If the railroad company deemed it possible that the county
would make a loan of $700,000 upon the simple promise of the
corporation to save it harmless, - if they had not believed that
the county court would exact ample security for the protection
of its constituents against liability, it would scarcely have been
suggested through counsel that the acceptance of the act of
Jan. 7, 1865, would amount to a specific appropriationof so
much of the earnings as would suffice to meet the interest until
the bonds were paid off.
We next inquire whether any different belief was indulged
by the county court. Did its members intend the loan to be
made without securing the county in some effectual mode?
These questions must, in view of all the circumstances, be
answered in the negative. We have seen that, when the original application was made to the county court, one of the justices

Oct. 1879.]

KETCHUM v. ST. Louis.

submitted a proposition requiring the company to secure the
loan by a mortgage upon the rolling-stock, the State to that
extent surrendering its mortgage or lien. The substitute -which
was adopted described the act which it was proposed to submit
to the legislature as an act "securing the completion of the
road and the interest of the county of St. Louis in the issue of
said bonds." The security which the proposed act provided
was a direction to the fund commissioner to pay the amount
necessary to meet the interest, and to continue such payments
until the bonds were paid by the company. It is quite clear
that a proposition to make this loan, without providing some
security against liability, would not have been entertained by
the county court.
As to the State, it is abundantly clear, from the language of
the act of 1865, without reference to the circumstances under
which it was passed, that the legislature, as an inducement to
the county of St. Louis to come forward and save an important
enterprise, in which the State was largely interested financially,
intended to waive the prior statutory lien of the State to the
extent necessary to secure the prompt liquidation of the interest on the proposed loan, during the whole period the bonds
were outstanding and unpaid. The State, at that time, had
control of the entire earnings of the railroad, and if the legislature did not intend to forego any priority or advantage then
enjoyed by the State, but designed only to give authority to the
county to issue its bonds, that purpose could have been accomplished by the first section of the act of 1865, leaving the county
and the railroad company to make such terms and conditions
as suited them.
The second section of the act shows, beyond question, that
the purpose of the legislature was not so restricted,- that its
intention was to provide full security to the county in the event
the county court exercised the authority given by the act. The
draft of the statute submitted by the county court to the legislature contained only a general direction to the fund commissioner to pay the interest, and to continue such payments until
the bonds were paid off by the company. But so fixed was the
legislature in the purpose to protect the county, that it extended
that direction to "such person as may at any time hereafter

KETCHUM v. ST. Louis.

[Sup. Ct.

have the custody of the funds of the company," and, by express
words, required the payments of interest, whether by the fund
commissioner or by such other person, to be made "out of the
earnings of said Pacific Railroad." The object of these additions
to the act, as submitted by the parties, cannot be mistaken.
The office of fund commissioner was created by statute, and,
consequently, its continuance depended upon the will of the
legislature. To meet the contingency of the abolition of that
office, the same duty was imposed upon such person as at any
time thereafter should have the custody of the funds of the coinpany. And that there might be no misapprehension as to the
source from which funds to meet the interest were to be derived, the legislature, in effect, gave the assurance that the
earnings of the railroad, by whomsoever held, should supply the
amount necessary to that end.
In this connection we may notice another important difference between the act in the form in which it was submitted to
the legislature and that in which it finally passed. The former
provided that the bonds should be issued "under such conditions as may be agreed upon between said county court and the
board of directors of the Pacific Railroad." But the legislature
added the words, "such conditions to be binding on the parties,
but shall not impair or affect the validity of the bonds after
they are issued." These last words, but for the succeeding section of the act, would have placed the county at the mercy of
the railroad company, and rendered it liable to holders of bonds,
whether the company complied or not with the conditions upon
which the loan was made. It is manifest that while the legislature intended, by the language last quoted, to facilitate the
sale of the bonds, and thereby secure the early completion of
the road, it intended also by the second section of the act to
assure the county of St. Louis that its absolute liability to
holders of its bonds was largely nominal, since, by that section,
out of the earnings of the property, to the extent necessary, and
whether the funds of the company were in the custody of the
fund commissioner or of some other person, the interest on the
bonds should be paid at maturity, and such payments continued
until the bonds were paid.
That the legislature intended by the act of 1865 to make a

Oct. 1879.]

KEToBUm v. ST. Lours.

specific appropriation of the earnings for that purpose; that
the prior lien of the State was, to that extent, waived in favor
of the county; and that such appropriation and waiver were, by
agreement of all the parties then interested in the property and
the disposition of its income, to continue until the bonds themselves were paid or the county discharged from liability thereon,
we entertain no doubt. It was not a simple, naked covenant
to pay out of a particular fund; but the act, being accepted by
the parties interested, operated as an equitable assignment of
a fixed portion of that fund, -an
assignment which became
effectual without any further intervention upon the part of the
debtor, and which the party holding the funds of the company,
whether the fund commissioner or some other person, could
respect without liability to the debtor for so doing. It was
an arrangement, based upon a valuable consideration, which
neither the State nor the company, nor both, nor parties claiming under either, with notice, could disregard without the assent of the county, expressed by those who had authority to
bind it. It was an engagement to pay out of a specially designated fund, accompanied by express authority to its custodian
to apply a specific part thereof to a definite object, in the accomplishment of which all the parties to the arrangement were
directly interested. To construe the act othefwise will not
only do violence to plain words, requiring no construction, but
convict the legislature of a deliberate design to entrap the
county of St. Louis into incurring an enormous debt primarily
for the benefit of the State, which controlled the earnings of
the property for its own benefit.
It remains to inquire whether this agreement or arrangement
can be carried into effect consistently with the settled principles of equity.
We remark that all parties claiming under mortgages executed by the company after the acceptance of the act of 1865
(none others are interested in the determination of this case)
are chargeable with notice of the appropriation of earnings
made by that act. "In this country," says Mr. Sedgwick, "the
disposition has been, on the whole, to enlarge the limits of the
class of public acts, and to bring within it all enactments of a
general character, or which in any way affect the community

KETCHUM V. ST. Louis.

[Sup. Ot.

at large."
Sedgwick, Stat. and Const. Law., p. 25. That
act related to matters in which the general public were concerned, and all were bound to take notice of its provisions.
We are of opinion that no insuperable obstacle exists in the
way of a court of equity giving effect to this agreement or
contract between the parties as against those whom the law
charges with notice thereof. The relief granted by the decree seems to be in accordance with established rules in such
cases.
In Legard v. JHodges, Lord Thurlow said: "I take this to
be a universal maxim, that wherever persons agree concerning
any particular subject, that, in a court of equity, as against the
party himself, and any claiming under him voluntarily, or with
notice, raised a trust. These persons have so claimed; and,
therefore, this is a pure trust estate," and they must be declared trustees. 1 Ves. Jr. 478.
In the report of that case in
3 Bro. C. C. 531, the Chancellor says: "I take the doctrine
to be true, that when parties come to an agreement as to the
produce of land, the land itself will be affected by the agreement." Upon rehearing, the former decree was affirmed. 4 id.
422.
In Be Strand Music Hall Company (3 De G., J. & S. 147),
the question arose whether that company had created a valid
charge on their real property. "There can, I think," said
Lord Justice Turner, "be no doubt that it was intended by
these agreements to create a charge upon the property of the
company, but it was said on the part of the official liquidator
that this intention was not well carried into effect. I apprehend, however, that where this court is satisfied that it was
intended to create a charge, and that the parties who intended
to create it had the power to do so, it will give effect to the intention, notwithstanding any mistake which may have occurred
in the attempt to effect it."
The doctrine is thus stated by Mr. Justice Story in his Equity
Jurisprudence, vol. ii. sect. 1231: "Indeed, there is generally
no difficulty in equity in establishing a lien, not only on real
estate, but on personal property, or on money in the hands of
a third person, wherever that is a matter of agreement, at least
against the party himself, and third persons who are volunteers

Oct. 1879.]

KETCHUM V. ST. Louis.

or have notice; for it is a general principle in equity that as
against the party himself, and any claiming under him voluntarily or with notice, such an agreement raises a trust."
The author cites, in support of these views, Legard v. Hodges,
8upra.
So, also, in Pinch v. Anthony and others, 8 Allen (Mass.),
536. "It is well stated that a party may, by express agreement, create a charge or claim in the nature of a lien on real
as well as on personal property of which he is the owner or
in possession, and that equity will establish and enforce such
charge or claim, not only against the party who stipulated to
give it, but also against third persons who are either volunteers, or who take the estate on which the lien is agreed to be
given, with notice of the stipulation. Such agreement raises a
trust which binds the estate to which it relates, and all who
take title thereto with notice of such trust can be compelled
in equity to fulfil it."
In the recent work of Mr. Jones on Mortgages (vol. i. sect.
162) the author remarks: "In addition to these formal instruments which are properly entitled to the designation of mortgages, deeds, and contracts, which are wanting in one or both
of these characteristics of a common-law mortgage, are often
used by parties for the purpose of pledging real property, or
some interest in it, as security for a debt or obligation, and
with the intention that they shall have effect as mortgages.
Equity comes to the aid of the parties in such cases, and gives
effect to their intentions. Mortgages of this kind are therefore
called equitable mortgages." So, also, in his treatise on Railroad Securities, p. 57, the same author says: "An agreement
of a company to set apart specific earnings or property in the
hands of a third person to meet the interest or principal of its
bonds, creates an equitable lien or charge." Willard, Eq. Jur.
462; Watson v. Tie Duke of Wellington, 1 Russ. & Myl. 602;
Y 'ates v. Groves, 1 Ves. Jr. 279; Lett v. Morris, 4 Sim. 602;
-Exparte Alderson, I 'Madd. 39.
Further citation of authority would seem to be unnecessary.
If any doubt exists as to the case coming within these recognized principles of equity, it is sufficient to say that the appropriation of the earnings of the railroad company as security for

818

KETCHUM V. ST. Louis.

[Sup. Ct.

the loan by the county was in pursuance of a special act of the
legislature; and in sustaining the decree below we give effect
to the legislative will as to matters over which its authority
unquestionably extended.
It will be observed that we have made no allusion to the act
of March 80, 1868, subsequently to the passage of which the
first, second, and third mortgages were executed. In behalf of
the plaintiffs in error, it is contended that the act of 1868 shows
the construction given by the Circuit Court to the act of 1865
to be inadmissible. The answer to this proposition is twofold:
1st, The act of March 80, 1868, furnishes, upon its face, evidence to all that the State felt itself under obligation to provide
for the security of the county on account of the loan made to
the railroad company, under the authority of the act of Jan.
7, 1865. 2d, Be that as it may, if, as we have held, the
act of 1865, and its acceptance by the parties, constituted a
contract by which the State waived its lien, in favor of St.
Louis County, to the extent and for the purpose therein indicated, and by which the State, the railroad company, and the
county appropriated the company's earnings to the payment
of the interest on the county's bonds, such payments to continue until the bonds were paid off by the company, no subsequent legislation could deprive the county of the security thus
acquired. Nor could parties, who claim under subsequent incumbrances, and who are chargeable with notice of the appropriation made by the act of 1865, destroy the equitable lien of
the county, even with the consent of the railroad company.
With that lien the property itself was chargeable by whomsoever it or the funds accruing therefrom are or may be
held.
B an order heretofore made in this court, the city of St.
Louis was allowed to intervene in this cause for the purpose of
protecting such interest as it may have herein, and for the
purpose of being heard at the argument. The claim of the
city is, that, by the Constitution and laws of Missouri, it has
assumed the position formerly occupied by the county of St.
Louis under the act of Jan. 7, 1865, -that the instalments of
money required by the act to be paid monthly into the county
treasury are due and payable to the city treasury, and that it

Oct. 1879.]

KETCHUm v. ST. Louis.

has been subrogated to the rights and liabilities of the county
as to all matters arising out of the issue of the bonds in question.
Since the making of that order, a written stipulation has been
filed in this court signed by all the parties to the record, including the city, agreeing that in the event the decree below is
affirmed, the city of St. Louis shall be substituted therein in
lieu and place of the county of St. Louis. The stipulation will
be entered at large upon the record, and an order entered substituting the city to all the rights acquired by the county' in
virtue of the decree below.
We deem it unnecessary to allude to any other points discussed by counsel. We have noticed all deemed by us material.
What has been said is sufficient to dispose of the cause upon
its merits.
Perceiving no error in the decree, it is, in all respects,
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE STRONG

and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.

MRi. JUSTICE STRONG. I cannot concur in the judgment
given in this case. I am unable to discover in the contract
between the company and the county, or in the act of the legislature, or in both, any thing that created an equitable lien upon
the earnings of the railroad company, or upon any of its property. Nothing more is expressed than a confident expectation
that the earnings would prove sufficient to pay the interest on
the county loan.

