Oct. 1879.]

ALDRIDGE V. MUIRHEAD.

This made it in all respects what it would have been if the
requisite corporate power had existed when it was entered into.
Angell & Ames, Corp., sect. 804 and note.
The corporation having assumed by entering into the contract
with the plaintiff to have the requisite power, both parties are
estopped to deny it. Id. sect. 635 and note.
The restriction imposed by the statute is a simple inhibition. It did not declare that what was done should be void,
nor was any penalty prescribed. No one but the State could
object. The contract is valid as to the plaintiff, and he has
no right to raise the question of its invalidity. .NationalBank
v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621.
The instruction given by the court to the jury with respect
to acts of user by the corporation in proof of its existence was
correct. If there was any error, it was in favor of the plaintiff. Angell & Ames, Corp., sect. 635.
The record shows clearly that the plaintiff was not entitled
to recover, and that the verdict and judgment are right. We,
therefore, forbear to examine the other assignments of error.
Conceding that all the exceptions to which they relate were
well taken, the errors could have done him no harm. Barth
v. Olise, Sheriff, 12 Wall. 400.
cudgment affirmed.

ALDEiDGE V. MUIRHEAD.
1. Where lands in New Jersey, paid for out of the separate estate of a married
woman are conveyed to her, she is considered to be the owner of them, as
if she were afeme sole.
2. Under the laws of that State the separate property of a woman may, with her
consent, be managed by her husband, without necessarily subjecting to the
claims of his creditors it, or the proceeds which by reason of his management arise therefrom.

AiPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of New Jersey.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

ALDRIDGE V. MUIRHEAD.

[Sup. Ct.

.tr. Bobert Gilchristfor the appellant.
Mr. CortlandtParker,and Hr. John Linn, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAiT.n

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity brought by the assignee in bankruptcy
of Thomas Aldridge, to reduce to his possession, as part of the
estate, property standing in the name of Anne Aldridge, the
wife of the bankrupt. The theory of the bill is that the bankrupt, while largely indebted, purchased the property in controversy with his own means, and took the title in the name of
his wife to keep it away from his creditors.
New Jersey has been among the most liberal of the States in
modifying the rules of the common law prescribing the rights
of the husband in the property of his wife and in protecting
her against the claims of his creditors. In 1851 a widow was
given the right to demand from the personal representative of
her deceased husband all personal property which at or immediately before her coverture belonged to her, or which came
to her during coverture by bequest, gift, or inheritance, if it
remained in his possession at the time of his death. Laws of
1851, p. 201. In 1852 it was enacted that a married woman
might receive by gift, grant, devise, or bequest, and hold'for
her sole and separate use, real and personal property, and the
rents, issues, and profits thereof,' and that her sole and separate property should not be subject to the disposal of her husband or liable for the payment of his debts. Laws of 1852, p.
407. In 1857 married women were authorized to bind themselves by covenants in conveyances of their lands, provided
their husbands joined with them in the deed (Laws of 1857, p.
485), and in 1862 it was enacted that if a married woman transacted business or purchased property, and thereby contracted
debts, she might be sued at law for the recovery of the
amount, and that any judgment thus obtained should bind her
property. Laws of 1862, pp. 271, 272.
It is conceded by the counsel for the appellee that the circuit
judge expressed the law of the State accurately when he said in
his opinion, filed with the record, that "the courts of the State,
in numerous decisions, have construed it (the act of 1852) to
authorize the acquisition by a married woman of personal prop-

Oct. 1879.]

ALDRIDGE V. MUIRHEAD.

erty and real estate, and to intercept the common-law right of
her husband to reduce her personal property to possession, and
to appropriate the rents, issues and profits of her real estate, as
an incident of his initiate estate by the curtesy." Another principle stated by the circuit judge is also conceded to be correct.
It is as follows: "When therefore (in New Jersey), the title
to real estate is conveyed to a married woman she must be
considered the bona fide owner of it, as if she were a single
female. But it must be entrenched in the real good faith by
which an honest acquisition is distinguished. If it is purchased
by her or for her, no matter by whom, and is paid for out of her
separate estate, its validity cannot and ought not to be questionable. But if she has no separate estate, or that is disproportionately small compared with the consideration ostensibly
furnished by her, and her means are materially supplemented
by her husband's contribution from resources, whether money
or its equivalent, which he could not rightfully so apply, such
a transaction does not specially invite, as it certainly does not
deserve, any legal sanction." It is equally true that a husband
may manage the separate property of his wife without necessarily subjecting it, or the profits arising from his management,
to the claims of his creditors. Voorhees v. Bone8teel and wife,
16 Wall. 16.
Such being the law of the case we come now to consider the
facts. Mr. and Mrs. Aldridge, the appellants, were married in
1842. The wife had at the time money and personal property
amounting to about one thousand dollars, which came to her by
inheritance from a deceased relative. The most of this was
invested soon after in furniture for the home of the family.
The husband was an instrument-maker by trade, but at some
time before 1857 left that business and engaged in the manufacture of oakum. In 1857 his factory was burned, and being
unable to collect his insurance money on account of the insolvency of the company in which his property was insured he
failed and became utterly insolvent. After giving up all his
property to his creditors he remained largely in debt. Confessedly in the early part of 1861 he had nothing. In May of
that year be was appointed postmaster at Hudson City, New
Jersey. The emoluments of this office were then considerably

ALDRIDGE V. MUIRHEAD.

[Sup. Ot.

less than a thousand dollars a year. He was also a real estate
agent and conveyancer.
During that year Mrs. Aidridge received about four hundred
dollars from her father's estate in England. In September, a
friend of the family had a lot for sale with a barn on it. The
price was three hundred and fifty dollars, and the terms easy.
A purchase of this lot was made in the name of the wife. Not
more than twenty-five dollars, if that, was paid down. The
balance of the purchase-money was secured by assuming a
mortgage already on the lot for two hundred and fifty dollars,
and giving another mortgage, in which the husband and wife
joined, for seventy-five dollars. Mrs. Aldridge, with the money
she had received from her father's estate, and more which she
borrowed from a maiden sister, converted the barn on the lot
into a house. The cost of this was between ten and twelve
hundred dollars, and the house was occupied by the family as a
residence until 1869, when it was sold with the lot for something more than four thousand dollars.
In the course of the years 1863 and 1864, some female friends
of Mrs. Aldridge, countrywomen of hers, loaned her nineteen
hundred dollars - one furnishing seven hundred, and the other
twelve hundred dollars. She also borrowed further sums from
her sister, who was frequently an inmate of the family, and
seems to have had money. The precise sum got from her sister
does not appear, but the evidence leaves no doubt in our minds
that with this and the other sums borrowed, she had as her separate capital more than three thousand dollars.
During the years 1863, 1864, and 1865 five different purchases of property were made in her name. The aggregate of
all these, except the last, -was only a little more than three
thousand dollars, and credit was given on much of the purchasemoney. Some sales were made in the mean time and a little
profit realized. The last of the five purchases was made in
January, 1865. The money needed to make up what was
wanted for the down payment was raised by a mortgage of one
of the previous purchases. The property embraced in the last
purchase was sold in the early part of 1866, and a profit of
nearly four thousand dollars realized. Many other purchases
were made afterwards, but it is conceded that the money to

Oet. 1879.]

A.LDRIDGE V. MUIRHEAD.

make the payments came directly or indirectly from the returns
of this last fortunate transaction.
While it may not be in all cases quite clear from what particular source the money came that was used in paying for each
one of the earlier purchases, the testimony leaves no doubt with
us, that, as a whole, they were paid for from the loans made to
the wife by her sister and friends, and that all the property she
now has is the result of a judicious employment of the capital
she thus acquired and its legitimate profits. While the negotiations were all made by the husband, the titles were openly
taken in the name of the wife. The appellants were called on
to answer whether the purchase-money, or any part of it was
paid from the means of the husband, and they stated, under
oath, most unequivocally, that it was not. This throws the
burden of proof on the complainant, and, after a full and careful examination of the whole case, we are unable to find that
any thing which the creditors of the bankrupt could have subjected to the payment of their debts ever went into the property that the wife now holds. Undoubtedly the husband's
services were largely the cause of the fortunate results ; but, so
far as we have been able to discover, they were devoted to the
management of what was both in law and in fact her separate
property. Her accumulations from that source do not belong
to his creditors.
To our minds it is an important element in this case that the
transactions out of which this suit arose, commenced thirteen
years or thereabouts, before any attempt was made to impeach
them. They were always open, and no effort at concealment
was ever made. All deeds were taken in the name of the wife
and promptly put on record. The husband's connection with
all the purchases and sales must have been well known. The
character of his own business must also have been understood.
His bank accounts show that lie was a large daily depositor in
his own name. His checks were numerous and sometimes for
considerable amounts. He seems sometimes to have been employed in the course of his business as land agent by heavy
property owners. All his debts must have been contracted as
early as 1857, and he was not adjudged a bankrupt until 1873.
During all the time between these dates it is not shown that
VOL. XI.

26

402

ALDRIDGE V. MUIRHEAD.

[Sup. Ot.

any one ever attempted to interfere with his own business or
to reach the property in the name of his wife, some of which
she had held six or seven years. This can be explained in no
other way than upon the assumption that the creditors knew
the money he was depositing was not to any considerable extent, his own, and that his transactions in the name of his wife
were in fact what they purported to be, the result of a judicious
management of her separate estate. After such delay we are
not inclined to set aside what has been permitted to remain so
long undisturbed, simply because of an inability to explain
with exact certainty from what precise source the money came
which went into the purchase of each particular parcel of property. It is sufficient for the purposes of this case, that, with the
money Mrs. Aldridge borrowed from her sister and friendly
countrywomen, and the profits of her several investments, she
had enough of her own, which was her separate estate, to make
herself the owner of all she now has without interfering with
the just rights of her husband's creditors. The consideration
ostensibly furnished by her is not more than we are satisfied
she had, and her means were not materially supplemented by
contributions from her husband's resources that in law belonged
to his creditors. Such services as he rendered in her behalf
were no more than were consistent with all the obligations he
was under to those to whom he was indebted, and there is no
evidence to satisfy us that his own money was used to make
any of the payments of purchase-money.
That the several loans, which made up the capital invested
were to the wife, and not to the husband, is to our minds entirely clear. The insolvency of the husband was well understood, and it is evident from all the circumstances that the
friends who made the loans would never have done so had it
not been supposed that the money was to be used for the benefit of Mrs. Aldridge, and that she and her estate were to
become bound for the repayment. The laws of New Jersey
authorized her to contract such debts, and made her separate
estate liable therefor. The signature of the husband to the
notes and mortgages did not necessarily make the money or the
property for which they were given his. It perfected the
obligation of his wife and subjected her property to liability,

Oct. 1879.]

BANK V. SHERMAN.

but did not transfer her separate estate to him. Unless his
means were actually used to pay her debts, his creditors have
lost nothing they ever had a right to claim as in law or equity
belonging to them. Conradv. Shomo, 44 Penn. St. 193; Brown
v. Pendleton, 60 id. 419. As he was at the time hopelessly
insolvent, it cannot for a moment be supposed that credit was
given to his personal obligation. The wife and her separate
estaid furnished the only security the parties supposed they had
for the money which was loaned.
We have thought it unnecessary to go over the details of the
evidence in an opinion. The result we have unanimously
reached is that the decree below should be reversed and the
cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill with costs.
It is consequently
So ordered.

BANK v. SERx".
IOKSLNG v. SHERMAN.
On the 23d of February, 1875, certain creditors filed their petition in the District Court of the United States, praying that A. should be declared a bankrupt. On the 9th of March he appeared, and leave was given them to amend
their petition, by adding new causes of bankruptcy or otherwise. On the 16th
of April, he filed his answer, denying that the aggregate of the claims of the
petitioners amounted to one-third of the debts provable against him. Time
was thereupon allowed for other creditors to unite with the petitioners, and
the previous leave to amend the petition was continued. On the 22d of that
month one B. was permitted to unite with the petitioning creditors, and their
petition was amended by alleging that A. within six months before the petition was filed committed, by the non-payment of his commercial paper, an act
of bankruptcy. The amount of A's debts then represented, was sufficient,
and upon the alleged act of bankruptcy set forth in the amended petition A.
was duly declared a bankrupt. On the 12th of July, 1875, an assignment was
made to C. as assignee which included all the property and effects of every
kind in which A. "was interested or entitled to have" on the 23d of February, 1875. 0. filed, July 7, 1877, his bill to reach certain securities which had
been transferred by A. on or about March 20, 1875. Hdd, 1. That the continuity of the proceedings in bankruptcy was unbroken and that the assignment was operative, according to its terms, although the act upon which the
adjudication was had was first alleged in said amendment to the petition.
2. That C.'s suit was not barred by the Statute of Limitations.

