RAILROAD

CO. v. WHITE.

[Sup. Gt.

RALROAD ComPANY v. WHITE.
Where, upon an examination of the whole record of a civil suit or proceeding, it
appears that the opinions of the judges of the Circuit Court were not actually
opposed upon any question of law material to the determination of the cause,
and the amount in controversy is not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction,
the writ of error will be dismissed, even though a disagreement in opinion be
certified in form.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. H. HM.Teller for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. John Q. Charles, contra.
MR. CHIB JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error brought by the Colorado Central Railroad Company, the defendant below, to reverse a judgment
against it for less than $5,000. The record shows that after
a verdict in favor of the plaintiff below the defendant moved
for a new trial; and on that motion the question arose, whether,
"under the facts and circumstances shown in evidence," a cer-

tain instruction of the court to the jury "was or was not erroneous." The record then proceeds as follows: "On which
question the opinions of the judges were opposed, and final
judgment entered on a verdict for the plaintiff. Whereupon,
on motion of the defendants, by its counsel, that the point on
which the disagreement so happened may, during the term, be
stated under the direction of the judges, and certified under
the seal of the court to the Supreme Court to be finally decided, it is ordered that the foregoing statement of the pleadings and the facts, which is made under the direction of the
judges, be certified according to the request of the defendant,
by its counsel, and the law in that case made and provided."
The certificate thus ordered is signed by the circuit judge and
the district judge. As the law now stands, if the judges in
the Circuit Court disagree, a judgment must be entered in accordance with the opinion of the presiding judge, who, in this

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER v. SELDEN.

case, was the circuit judge. Rev. Stat., sect. A0. If he had
been of the opinion that the instruction was wrong, the order
necessarily would have been in favor of granting a new trial.
Because the new trial was not granted, therefore, we must conclude that he thought the instruction right. To bring about a
disagreement under these circumstances, the district judge must
have held that the instruction was wrong; but, instead of that,
we find his opinion in the record, apparently delivered in disposing of the motion for a new trial, in which he maintains
with much force the correctness of the instruction.
In view of these facts, as the amount in dispute is less than
our jurisdiction requires, we must decline to take cognizance
of the case. If the judges below are not able to agree upon
the decision of any question of law which is material to the
determination of a cause presented to them, our jurisdiction
may be invoked to settle the differences ; but in such cases, if
it appears upon an examination of the whole record that no
such disagreement actually existed, we ought not to consider
the question, even though it may be certified in form.
Writ dismissed.

B

xER v. SELDEN.

1. A claim to the exclusive property in a peculiar system of book-keeping cannot, under the law of copyright, be maintained by the author of a treatise
in which that system is exhibited and explained.
2. The difference between a copyright and letters-patent stated and ilustrated.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Alp7onso Taft and Mr. Hf. P. Lloyd for the appellant.
3ir. C. 17 Afoulton and Hr. A1 i. Southard for the appellee.
MRt. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Charles Selden, the testator of the complainant in this case,
in the year 1859 took the requisite steps for obtaining the copy-

