RAILWAY CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Or.

at law. Numerous others might be cited. The rule in equity
is undoubted.
The objections we have thus expressed lead directly to an
affirmance of the decree rendered by the court below. In
1873, thirteen years after the gauge had been constructed at
the water-wheel, the canal company required the complainants
to place the gauge and sliding gate at the canal bank, and
threatened to shut off the water from the mill if the requirement was not complied with. The company had no right to
make and had none to enforce such a requirement, except in
the cases specified in the leases, and those cases have now no
existence.
Decree affirmed.

RAMWAY CoPANY v. PHILADELPHIA.
1. A company incorporated by a statute of Pennsylvania approved April 8,186I,
was authorized to construct a railway on certain streets of Philadelphia,
subject to the ordinances of the city regulating the running of passenger
railway cars. The charter requires, among other things, that the "company shall also pay such license for each car run by said company as is
now paid by other passenger railway companies" in said city. That license
was $30 for each car. An ordinance passed in 1867 increased the license
charge to 50, and in 1868, by a general statute the legislature provided
that the passenger railway corporations of Philadelphia should pay annually
to the city 50 as required by their charters for each car intended to run on
their roads during the year, and that the city should have no power to regulate such corporations unless authorized by the laws of the State expressly
in terms relating to those corporations. The company paid the increased
charge until 1875. On its refusing to pay it thereafter this suit was brought.
Held, that the charter did not amount to a contract that the company
should never be required to pay a license fee greater than that required of
such companies at the date when the company was incorporated.
2. In their widest sense, the words employed in the charter mean that the company should not then be required by the city to pay any greater charge as
license than that paid by other companies possessing the same privilege.
Qucere, without further legislation, could a greater sum have been exacted
from the company ?
3. Senble, that even if the charter were sufficient to import a contract, the legislature, under the constitutional provision then in force touching the alteration,
revocation, or annulment of any charter in such manner that no injustice be
done to the corporators, had ample power to pass the act raising the license
fee from thirty to fifty dollars.

Oct. 1879.]

RAILWAY

0. V. PHILADELPHIA.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvania.
This was an action brought in the Court of Common Pleas,
No. 2, for the county of Philadelphia, by the city of Philadelphia against the Union Passenger Railway Company of
Philadelphia.
The following case was stated for the opinion of the court,
with the right to either party to sue out a writ of error to the
judgment.
That by "An ordinance supplementary to an ordinance
entitled ' An ordinance to regulate passenger railways,' approved
July 7, 1857," approved April 1, 1859 (139), and by the third
section thereof, it is provided, -

"That each and every passenger railway company shall pay into
the office of the chief commissioner of highways in the month of
January of each year, for the use of the city, the sum of thirty
dollars for each car intended to be run upon any road, and for
each and every car placed upon any road before the time herein
provided for paying the license, a proportionate sum shall be paid
until the succeeding January, and that no car shall be placed or
run upon any road or street until it shall be regularly licensed,
and a certificate duly numbered hung in a conspicuous place in
said car."
That the defendants were created a body politic by an act
passed April 8, 1864 (P. L. 297), with the authority to construct a railway on certain named streets in the city of Philadelphia. Among other things in said act, it is enacted,
"SECT. 4
. Said railway shall conform in gauge to the passenger railways now laid in the city of Philadelphia. ...
"SECT. 8. .

.

. And the said company is hereby authorized and

empowered to construct and lay the said railway, without obtaining
the consent of the city councils of the city of Philadelphia; but
whenever the said railway shall be laid and used, by running passenger cars thereon, the said company shall be subject to the ordinances of the city of Philadelphia regulating the running ofpassenger
railway cars."
"SECT. 10. That the said company shall pay annually into the
treasury of the city of Philadelphia, for the use of said city, whenever
the dividends declared by said company shall exceed six per cent
per annum, on the par value of the capital stock thereof, a tax of
VOL. x1.

34

RAILWAY CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ot.

six per cent on such excess over six per cent, . . . and the said

company shall also pay such license for each car run by said company as is now paid by other passenger railway companies in the
city of Philadelphia."
By "a further supplement to an ordinance to regulate
passenger railways, approved July 7, 1857," approved Jan. 2,
1867 (1), it is enacted, "That each and every passenger railway company shall pay to
the chief commissioner of highways the sum of fifty dollars for each
car run upon their respective roads." ...
That by "An Act to define the duties and liabilities of
passenger railway corporations in the city of Philadelphia,"
approved April 11, 1868 (P. L. 849), it is enacted, "That the several passenger railway corporations in the city of
Philadelphia shall pay annually to the said city, in the month of
January, the sum of fifty dollars, as required by their charters, for
each car intended to be run over their roads during the year, and
they shall not be obliged to pay any larger sum; and said city shall
have no power by ordinance or otherwise to regulate passenger
railway companies, unless authorized so to do by the laws of this
Commonwealth, expressly in terms relating to passenger railway
corporations in the city of Philadelphia. ..
That in each year previous to the year 1875 the defendants
paid the said plaintiff the sum of fifty dollars for each of the
cars run by them during such year.
The defendants, in the month of January, 1875, did run
seventy-nine cars on their road, and admit their liability to pay
to the plaintiffs for each car the sum of thirty dollars and no
more.
If the court shall be of opinion that the plaintiffs are entitled
to recover the sum of fifty dollars for each car, then judgment
to be entered for the plaintiffs at that rate; if not, then judgment to be entered for the plaintiffs at the rate of thirty dollars
for each car. The damages to be assessed by the prothonotary.
It is agreed that any act of assembly or ordinance of the
city of Philadelphia which may be pertinent to the case here
stated shall be considered as embraced herein.

Oct. 1879.]

RAILWAY CO. v. PHILADELPHIA.

Judgment was rendered in favor of the city at the rate of
fifty dollars for each car. It was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, and this writ was then sued out. The
errors assigned are set out in the opinion of this court.
.Afr. David W. Sellers and .r. F. Carroll Brewster for the
plaintiff in error.
The contract between the State and the company arose
by the acceptance of the charter by the corporators acting
thereunder. It must therefore be construed. as of that date.
The franchise conferred was subject to certain terms, among
which were that whenever the dividends declared should exceed
six per cent per annum on the par value of the stock, a tax of
six per cent should be paid on such excess, and that a license
for each car run, such as was then paid by other passenger railway companies, should be paid.
The annual charge on each car is not technically a tax.
Taxation is imposed by the State and city under general laws,
and no exemption is here claimed from their exercise. The
taxing power of the city conferred by the statute of Aug. 25,
1864, extends to all subjects of taxation specified by sect. 32
of the act of April 29, 1844. It does not, therefore, reach the
cars of the company, as they are necessary to the enjoyment
of the franchise. Under that section every thing incidental to,
or inseparable from, the franchise is exempt from taxation.
Navigation Company v. County, 8 Watts & S. (Pa.) 384; Navigation Comqny v. Commissioners, 11 Pa. St. 202.
The power of the city to open and repair streets does not
interpose any barrier against the paramount authority of the
State to grant the right to construct railways over them on
such terms and conditions as the legislature may prescribe.
Case of Tie Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad Company, 6
Whart. (Pa.) 25; Stormfeltz v. Turnpike Company, 13 Pa. St.
555; Mercer v. Railroad, 36 id. 99. The terms and conditions
which are set forth in the company's charter exclude by necessary implication the exercise by the city of any power which
would interfere with the enjoyment of the franchise, or diminish its value, even if such power had been, as it was not, vested
in the city by pre-existing legislation.
The ordinance of the city passed pursuant to a later statute,

RAILWAY CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

-[Sup. Ct.

and imposing burdens upon the franchise greater than those
specified in the charter, is in direct conflict with the contract
clause of the Constitution of the United States, and void.
Mr. Oharles B. Morgan, Jr., and Hr. W. Nelson West, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Stipulations, in a statute of a State, exempting certain property, rights, or franchises from taxation, or engaging that the
same shall be taxed only at a certain rate, if made for a valuab]e
consideration received by the State whose legislature enacted
the stipulation, is a contract, and as such comes within the rules
of decision specifying the description of contracts entitled to
protection from modification or repeal under the guaranty of
the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution.
Exemptions of the kind, however, are to be strictly construed,
the rule being that the right of taxation exists unless the exemption is expressed in clear and unambiguous terms, and that
in order that it may be effectual it must appear that the contract was made in consequence of some beneficial equivalent
received by the State, it being conceded that if the exemption
was granted only as a privilege it may be recalled at the pleasure of the legislature. Cooley, Const. Lim. (4th ed.) 342;
Cooley, Taxatibn, 146.
Companies were created by the legislature of the State, more
than thirty years ago, for running street cars in the streets of
the plaintiff city, whose charters made it necessary that the
managers should obtain the consent of the city councils before
they commenced to use and occupy the streets for that purpose.
Ordinances were accordingly passed by the city authorities
which required companies organized under such statutes to
pay for the use of the city a license fee of thirty dollars for
each car intended to be run. Subsequent charters of the kind
were granted by the legislature which did not contain any provision requiring the companies or their agents to procure the
consent of the authorities of the city before they could use the
public streets for the running of their passenger cars. These
companies denied the validity of the license charge, which gave
rise to litigation and to new legislation, by which authority was
given to the city councils to provide by ordinance for the pro-

Oct. 1879.]

RAILWAY CO. v. PHILADELPHIA.

per regulation of omnibuses or vehicles in the nature thereof,
and to that end it was enacted that they might from time to
time pass ordinances to provide for the issuing of licenses to as
many persons as may apply to keep and use omnibuses or vehicles in the nature thereof, and to charge a reasonable annual or
other sum therefor, and to provide for the punishment of the
owners and drivers of the same for any violation of the provisions of the ordinances to be created by virtue of the authority
conferred. Sess. Laws Penn. (1850) 469.
Authority was by that act expressly vested in the city authorities to pass ordinances upon the subject therein described, and
to charge a reasonable annual license fee for the license or
other sum for the same. Pending the period during which that
enactment continued to be in operation the legislature of the
State passed the act incorporating the defendant company, with
the powers, privileges, duties, and obligations expressed in the
act of incorporation. Id. (1864) 300.
Corporate privileges of the usual character are by the charter granted to the company, and the tenth section provides
that whenever their dividends shall exceed six per cent per
annum on the par value of the capital stock, the company shall
pay for the use of the city a tax of six per cent on such excess
over six per cent on the par value, and that they shall also pay
"such license fee for each car run by the company as is now
paid by other passenger railway companies."
Railway companies running cars on the streets of the city
were required to pay at the time the defendant company -was
incorporated, for each and every car intended to be run, the
annual license fee of thirty dollars, as appears by the ordinance
then in force and fully set forth in the agreed statement of
facts. Annual payments to that amount, it seems, were made
by the defendant company, which may be inferred from the
fact that the plaintiff city makes no claim for any deficit during
that period.
Coming to the matter in controversy, it appears that the
legislature, on the 11th of April, 1868, passed the act which is
the principal subject of controversy. Sect. I provides that the
passenger railway corporations of the city shall pay annually to
the city in the month of January, the sum of fifty dollars, as

RAILWAY CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ot.

required by their charters, for each car intended to run over their
roads during the year, and that they shall not be obliged to pay
any larger sum; and the same section provides that the city
shall have no power to regulate such companies unless so authorized by the laws of the State. Sess. Laws Penn. (1868) 849.
Regular payments, as required, were made by the defendant
company until the year 1875, when they refused to pay any
greater sum than thirty dollars per year for each car run.
Payment of the excess beyond thirty dollars being refused, the
authorities of the city instituted the present suit in the common
pleas to recover the balance as claimed. Service was made, and
the parties having appeared, filed the agreed statement of facts
exhibited in the transcript. Hearing was had, and the court of
original jurisdiction rendered judgment in favor of the plaintiff
city for the sum of $4,218.60. Dissatisfied with the judgment,
the defendant company removed the cause into the Supreme
Court of the State, where the judgment was affirmed. Still
not satisfied, the defendant company removed the cause into
this court, and assigns for error the following causes: 1. That
the act of the legislature defining the duties and liabilities of
railway companies is in conflict with that provision of the Constitution which prohibits a State from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts. 2. That the judgment ,of the
court below is in conflict with that provision of the Constitution.
Attempt was made about the time the defendant company
was incorporated to support the theory that a street passenger
car was not a vehicle in the nature of an omnibus, and that the
street passenger cars were not taxable in any form under the
legislative act which authorized the city authorities to issue
licenses to persons to keep and use omnibuses or vehicles in
the nature thereof, upon the ground that the street passenger
car was not a vehicle in the nature of an omnibus. Controversy arose, and the Supreme Court of the State effectually
disposed of the question in favor of the city.
Questions of importance were decided by the court in that
case, most or all of which are more or less applicable to the
case before the court. They are as follows: 1. That a grant
to a corporation to carry passengers in cars over the streets of

Oct. 1879.]

RAILWAY

Co.

v. PHILADELPHIA.

a city does not necessarily involve exemption from liability to
municipal regulations, the right granted being neither greater
nor less than that possessed by a natural person. 2. That when
a corporation is authorized to pursue a specified business within
a municipality it is intended that the business shall be conducted under the rules, restrictions, and regulations which
govern others transacting the same business. 3. That the
right to construct cars and own a railway neither enlarges nor
diminishes the right to run cars and carry passengers, and
that a reasonable charge for the use of the privilege to transact such a business is not a denial of the right. 4. That an
ordinance requiring passenger cars to be numbered and pay a
stipulated sum when licensed is a valid police regulation, and
that such an ordinance might be passed under the act which
authorized the city authorities to pass ordinances for the
licensing of omnibuses and other vehicles of conveyance of a
like nature.
Since that decision it is not doubted that the subject of imposing license fees, in cases like the present, is within the
jurisdiction of the city authorities, if the statute under which
they have exercised such jurisdiction is a valid act passed in
pursuance of the Constitution.
When the company was incorporated the charter, as before
remarked, contained the provision providing for the payment
of a six per cent tax on the excess of dividends over six per
cent on the par value of the stock, and the further provision
that the company shall also pay such license for each car run
as is now paid by other passenger railway companies in the
city. What the defendants contend is that the closing enactment of the section amounts to a contract that the railway
company shall never be required to pay any greater license-fee
than was then required of such companies running passenger
cars on the streets of the city. Other railway companies at
that time paid an annual license of thirty dollars, and the defendants insist that the act of the legislature increasing the
license to fifty dollars per annum is unconstitutional and void.
Two answers are made to that proposition by the plaintiff
city, either of which is sufficient to show that the judgment
must be affirmed: 1. That the language of the act of incorpo-

RAILWAY CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. at.

ration referred to does not amount to a contract of any kind,
and certainly not to such a contract as that attempted to be set
up by the defendants. 2. That even if the language employed
in the charter is sufficient to amount to a contract that the
license charge should not exceed the amount paid at that
date by other such companies, still it cannot benefit the defendants for the reason that the Constitution of the State in
force when the act of incorporation was passed provides that
the legislature shall have the power to alter, revoke, or annul
any charter of incorporation hereafter conferred by or under
any special or general law, whenever in their opinion it may
be injurious to the citizens, subject only to the condition that
the alteration, revocation, or annulment shall be made in such
manner "that no injustice shall be done to the corporators."
Art. 1, sect. 26 ; Purdon, Dig. (9th ed.), p. 17.
Exemptions of the kind set up are to be strictly construed,
but it is unnecessary to invoke that canon of construction to
any considerable extent, as the language employed is not sufficient to take the case out of the rule that the alleged exemption
will not be sustained unless it be expressed in clear and unambiguous terms. Taken in their widest sense, the words employed
are no more than sufficient to warrant the construction that the
legislature intended that the corporation should not then be
required to pay any greater charge as license than other companies were required to pay for the same privilege, and it may
perhaps be regarded as a guaranty against invidious exemptions
adverse to the corporators in future legislation upon the subject,
but it is plain that there is nothing in the language of the section to warrant the court in holding that the legislature intended to contract that the license charged for such passenger-cars
should never exceed the annual sum of thirty dollars.
Railway companies of the kind, it appears, were first required
to pay an annual sum of fifty dollars for each car run the year
previous to the passage of the act which is the subject of controversy in the present litigation. Neither party refers to that
act as of any importance in this case, except as a part of the
State legislation upon the subject. Then comes the act in controversy, to which reference has already been made. 9 Sess.
Laws Penn. (1868) 848.

Oct. 1879.]

RAILWAY CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

When the street railway system of the city was comparatively
in its infancy the city authorities, under the legislative act empowering them as such authorities to charge reasonable fees
for granting licenses to such companies, fixed the sum at
thirty dollars per annum for each car run. Regulationls of the
kind were in force and operation when the charter of the defendant company was granted. Other companies previously
incorporated were at the time paying only that sum per annum
for each car, and the tenth section of the charter granted to
the defendant company provided that the then new company
should pay the same as was paid by the other passenger railway companies.
Beyond doubt they were required to pay the same amount as
was paid by the other companies, and it is perhaps a reasonable
construction that without further legislation they could not be
required to pay any greater sum, but the language of the section does not in terms contain any such prohibition. None of
the other companies have any such immunity from increased
taxation, and if construed to have that effect in favor of the
defendant company it would have an extremely invidious operation at the expense of all other similar companies. Invidious
exemptions are not favored, nor ought they to be, as they are
in principle utterly opposed to the rule of equality, which ought
always to prevail in imposing public burdens.
Taxation is an act of sovereignty to be performed, so far as
it conveniently can be, with justice and equality to all. Crawford v. Burrell Township, 53 Pa. St. 219; Cooley, Taxation,
152. Common burdens should be sustained by common contributions, regulated by fixed rules, and be apportioned, as far as
possible, in the ratio of justice and equity. Sutton v. Louisville,
5 Dana (Ky.), 28, 31.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions it is clear that the
State never made such a contract with the defendant company
as that supposed in the assignment of errors.
It seems that the Supreme Court of the State, when it became
their duty at an earlier period to examine the question, came
to the conclusion that the power to impose the license or tax
might be supported as a police power derived under the act
passed for the regulation of omnibuses or vehicles in the nature

RAjLWAY

CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

of the same, it appearing that at that time no legislative act
.had conferred the express power to tax the cars of the company.
The Frankford, &c. Bailway Co. v. City of Philadelphia, 58
Pa. St. 119-124.
Since that the act in question in this case has been enacted,
which itself requires all such companies without discrimination
to pay the annual license or tax of fifty dollars for each car
intended to be run over the city roads during the year.
Stress it appears was laid in the court below upon the words
of the act, "as required by their charters," as if the obligation
did not arise unless it was created by the terms of the charter,
but the Supreme Court showed conclusively that the act of the
legislature, when properly construed, did not sustain the proposition, and it appears to have been abandoned. Charters of the
kind, as the Supreme Court showed in the opinion given in this
case, required obedience to the lawful ordinances of the city
under the exercise of its municipal powers, which, as the
Supreme Court there say, is plainly evidenced by the remainder
of the section imposing the tax of fifty dollars, by which the
legislature took away from the city all power by ordinance or
otherwise to regulate passenger railways, "unless authorized
by the express terms of a law referring directly to such corporations."
Voluntary payments of the amount imposed by the new
act were made by the company for sixty or'seventy cars,
from which the Supreme Court of the State held that it followed as a legal conclusion that the company had accepted
the act.
All power to regulate such companies by ordinance or otherwise was taken away from the city during that period, and the
Churt held that inasmuch as the company had enjoyed the benefit of that prohibition ever since it was enacted, it must be
understood that they have accepted the act. Some weight is
doubtless to be given to that argument, but it is clear that the
right of the State to impose such a tax, rate, or imposition in
,the future cannot be taken away by mere implication arising
from a direction to pay a certain sum, the universal rule being
that it requires some plainer negative of the power of the State
to levy moneys for public purposes than is found in such a di-

Oct. 1879.]

ORAILWAY CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

rection. Indications of such an intention might perhaps be
found in other statutory provisions, sufficient, when added to
such a direction and when taken together as a whole, to amount
to a contract to relinquish the power; but when it is sought to
prove such an exemption the statutory evidence of the same
must be plain and unambiguous, and if not direct it must at
least be such as is inconsistent with any other hypothesis, and
conclusive that such was the intention of the legislature.
Cooley, Const. Lim. (4th ed.) 341.
Much discussion of the second proposition, in view of the conclusive support given to the first, is quite unnecessary. Power
to alter, revoke, or annul any charter of incorporation was
vested in the legislature by the Constitution more than a quarter of a century before the defendant company was incorporated.
Even when the language of the charter is sufficient to amount
to a contract, it was twice admitted by Mr. Justice Story, in
Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, that alterations and
amendments may be made in the charter, where the power for
that purpose is reserved to the legislature in the act of incorporation. 4 Wheat. 518, 708, 712.
Acts of incorporation granted subsequently to the adoption
of the Constitution must be construed as if the provision of the
instrument in question was embodied in the charter. Private
charters of the kind importing such an exemption are held to.
be contracts, because they are based for their consideration on
the liabilities and duties which the corporators assume by accepting the terms therein specified; and the general rule is that
the grant of the franchise on that account can no more be
resumed by the legislature, or its benefits be diminished or
impaired without the assent of the corporators, than any other
grant of property or legal estate, unless the right to do so is
reserved in the act of incorporation, or by some immemorial
usage or general law of the State in operation at the time the
charter was granted. Holyoke Company v. L ,man, 15 Wall.
500, 511.
Charters of private corporations duly accepted, it must be
admitted, are in general executed contracts, but the different
provisions, unless they are clear, unambiguous, and free of

RAILWAY CO. V. PHILADELPHIA.

[Sup. Ct.

doubt, are subject to construction, and their true intent and
meaning must be ascertained by the same rules of interpretation as apply to other legislative grants, the universal rule
being that whenever the privileges granted to such a corporation come under revision in the courts, the grant is to be
strictly construed against the corporation and in favor of the
public, and that nothing passes to the corporation but what
is granted in clear and explicit terms. Rice v. Railroad Company, 1 Black, 358; Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge,
11 Pet. 420. "
Whatever is not unequivocally granted in such charters is
taken to have been withheld, as all such charters and acts
extending the privileges of corporate bodies are to be taken
most strongly against the corporators. Sedgwick, Stats. (2d
ed.) 292; Lees v. The Mlanchester & Ashton Canal Co., 11 East,
644.
Vested rights, it is conceded, cannot be impaired under such
a reserved power, but it is clear that the power may be exercised and to almost any extent, to carry into effect the original purposes of the grant and to protect the rights of the
public and of the corporators, or to promote the due administration of the affairs of the corporation. Pennsylvania College
Cases, 13 Wall. 190, 218.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear, even if it be
.admitted that the language of the charter is sufficient to import
a contract, that the power of the legislature under the Constitution is amply sufficient to justify that department of the State
to pass the act raising the license for each car from thirty to
fifty dollars.
Judgment affirmed.

