UNITED STATES v. ELLSWORTH.

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES V. ELLSWORTH.
The ruling in United States v. Lawson (supra, p. 164), that a collector of customs,
who, pursuant to the peremptory order of the Commissioner of Customs, pays
into the treasury moneys to which he is lawfully entitled as a part of the
fees and emoluments of his office, is not precluded from recovering them in a
suit against the United States, reaffirmed and applied to this case.

APPEAL from

the Court of Claims.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
. Douglass, contra.

1Mr. J.

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Goods imported at the period mentioned in the declaration might be stored, under the warehouse acts, in the public
stores legally established at the port of which the petitioner
is collector.
Due indemnity to the United States was given by the railroad company, at whose request the public stores in this case
were established, against loss arising from decay, waste, or
damage to the goods there deposited.
Moneys to a large amount, as specified in the declaration,
were paid to the petitioner, as such collector, to reimburse the
treasury for the salaries of inspectors having charge of the
goods deposited in such stores. Pursuant to the act of Congress, the collector rendered, under oath, a quarter-yearly account to the treasury of the sums of money collected for rent
and storage beyond the rent paid for the stores to their owners.
5 Stat. 432; Rev. Stat., sect. 2647.
Statutory requirement also exists elsewhere that all moneys
received by collectors for the custody of goods in bonded warehouses shall be accounted for as storage, under the fifth section
of the prior act. 14 Stat. 188. Such requirement is enforced
by a penalty, as follows: That every officer or agent who neglects or refuses to comply with the same "shall be subject to
be removed from office, and to forfeit to the United States any
share or part of the moneys withheld to which he might otherwise be entitled." Rev. Stat., sect. 3619.

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. ELLSWORTH.

Yearly payments of the same, as the petitioner alleges, were
made by him through mistake, and that he made application to
the commissioner for leave to correct his account; but the commissioner refused the request, and declined in advance to repay
the petitioner any part of the said moneys. What the petitioner
alleges in that regard is that a part of the money derived from
that source, not exceeding $2,000 in any one year, belonged to
him, under the act requiring accounts as to rent and storage.
Annual payments on that account were made by the petitioner, as he alleges, for the period of eight years during which
he held the office, amounting in all to the sum of $14,535.23.
Maximum compensation of his office is $4,500, as follows:
Salary, fees, and commissions not exceeding $2,500. Rev. Stat.,
sect. 2675. Nor exceeding $2,000 in any one year from rent
and storage. Id., sect. 2647.
Out of the annual receipts for rent and storage the plaintiff
claims an amount not exceeding $2,000 in any one year, to
which he adds the entire receipts from all other sources of
emolument, and from the aggregate of these receipts he deducts
the amount of his yearly compensation, and by that mode of
computation his claim is as stated in the declaration.
Two pleas were filed in behalf of the United States: 1. They
deny each and every allegation of the petition. 2. They allege
that the petition was not filed within six years after the claim
first accrued.
Charges barred by the Statute of Limitations were rejected,
and the court below rendered judgment in favor of the petitioner
for the balance, amounting to the sum of $11,954.73, as appears
by the transcript.
Special findings of fact were duly filed in the record, as required by the rules of the court, to the effect following: That
the petitioner was collector of the port from March 5, 1870, to
Jan. 25, 1878, and the act of Congress shows that the maximum of his compensation was as stated in his petition; that
two freight depots are located at that port, and that from the
time the petitioner became collector, to June 15, 1877, the
apartments of the depots were constantly and exclusively used
for the storage of goods in bond, seized goods, and goods
unclaimed.

UNITED STATES V. ELLSWORTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Compliance with the treasury regulations in establishing
such depots is also shown by the findings of the court, and that
two inspectors were constantly kept there in charge of goods
stored in those depots during that period, and that the amount
of their salaries was annually reimbursed to the United States
through the collector by the railroad companies at whose request the depots were established, as shown by the statement
exhibited in the fifth finding of the court. All these amounts
were duly entered in the quarterly accounts of the petitioner,
and were paid to the treasurer of the United States in compliance with official instructions.
Peremptory instructions were given to the officer that all
moneys of every description, not received by warrant on the
treasury, must be actually deposited, as they would be charged
in the collector's account. His compensation, as received, was
derived wholly from the other statutory sources of emolument,
the findings of the court showing that he was not paid any
thing out of the yearly amounts collected from rent and storage.
Due credit was given for the annual amounts he received from
the other sources of emolument during the six years, within the
Statute of Limitations, as exhibited in'the seventh finding of the
court; and the same finding also contains a statement showing
the additional amounts required for each of those years to bring
up the compensation of the collector to the maximum rate.
Argument to show that the aggregate received from all
sources of emolument, including the receipts from rent and
storage, is sufficient to justify the claim of the petitioner is certainly unnecessary, as it is clear to a demonstration that the
computations of the court below are correct. Plainly it follows
from those computations that the collector is entitled to that
rate of compensation, unless it be denied that the receipts from
rent and storage, as explained in the opinion in United States
v. Lawson (supra, p. 164), are not properly included in that
aggregate.
Sums received for rent and storage, not exceeding $2,000 in
any one year, if duly included in the quarterly accounts of collectors, are as much due to such officers of the non-enumerated
ports as to the incumbents of the larger offices, and their right
to the same rests on the same foundation. Actual necessity has

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES v. ELLSWORTH.

always existed, since the Treasury Department was established, for more storehouses for the deposit and safe-keeping
of imported merchandise than the United States owned, and it
cannot be doubted that all such as have been placed under
the statutory control of collectors and have been used for that
purpose according to law are, during the period they are so
controlled, used, and occupied, public storehouses, within the
meaning of the act of Congress requiring collectors to include
receipts from that source in their quarterly accounts, and allowing them to retain out of the same a sum not exceeding $2,000
in any one year. United States v. Mlacdonald, 5 Wall. 647,
659; s. c. 2 Cliff. 270, 282.
None of these matters are controverted by the Solicitor-General; but he insists that the payments were voluntary, and that
the accounts having been settled cannot be opened, even if it
appears that the demand and payments were both made under
a mistake of law. Responsive to the first suggestion, the same
answer may be given to it as that given by the court to a similar suggestion in the preceding case.
You will also bear in mind, said the commissioner, that all
moneys of every description, not received by warrant on the
treasury, must be actually deposited. Had he added, If you
fail to comply, the law will be enforced, his meaning could not
be misunderstood, as the act of Congress provides that the
gross amount of all moneys received from whatever source for
the use of the United States, with an exception immaterial in
this case, shall be paid by the officer or agent receiving the
same into the treasury at as early a day as practicable, without
any abatement, &c. Rev. Stat., sect. 8617.
Penalties are prescribed for a non-compliance with that requirement, as follows: Every officer or agent who neglects or
refuses to comply with that provision shall be subject to be
removed from office and to forfeit any part or share of the
moneys withheld, to which he might otherwise be entitled.
14 Stat. 187; Rev. Stat., sect. 3619.
Viewed in the light of these penal provisions, the payments in
question made under the peremptory order of the commissioner
cannot be regarded as voluntary in the sense that the party
making them is thereby precluded from maintaining an action

WRIGHT

v.

BLAKESLEE.

[Sup. Ct.

to recover back so much of the money paid as he was entitled
to retain. Call it mistake of law or mistake of fact, the principles of equity forbid the United States to withhold the same
from the rightful owner.
Judgment affirmed.

WRIGHT v. BLAXKESLEE.
A, who died in October, 1846, devised his real estate to his daughter for life,
with remainder in fee to her son B., should he survive her. She died in September, 1865. B. was duly notified to make the return required by sect. 14 of
the Internal Revenue Act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 226), and on his refusal
to do so was summoned in June, 1867, to appear before the assessor of the
proper district. He appeared, and claimed "that the estate was not liable to
assessment for a succession tax." Thereupon the assessor assessed a tax of
one per cent upon the full value of the property, and added thereto a penalty
of fifty per cent and costs, - all of which B., July 20, 1867, paid under protest
to the collector. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to whom B. appealed, rendered a decision adverse to his claim, July 3, 1873. B. brought
this action, June 24,1875, against the collector to recover the amount so paid.
Held, 1. That the action was not barred by the Statute of Limitations.
2. That the tax was properly assessed and the penalty erroneously imposed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. A. C. Miller for the plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by B. Huntington Wright, the
plaintiff in error, against Blakeslee, the defendant, formerly
collector of internal revenue for the twenty-first revenue district of New York, to recover the amount of a succession tax
collected from the plaintiff and his sister in 1867, the latter
having assigned her interest to the plaintiff.
A jury was waived, and the cause was tried by the court.
From the findings the following facts appear: Henry Huntington, of Oneida County, New York, died in October, 1846,
leaving a will, by which, amongst other things, he devised to

