THE " SABINE."

[Sup. Ct.

THE "SABnwE."
Salvors can not in the same libel proceed in rein against a vessel and in pfrsonam
against the consignees of her cargo.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

fr. B. H. Browne and Mr. C. B. Singleton for the appellants.
Mr. John A. Campbell, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Salvage is the compensation allowed to persons by whose
voluntary assistance a ship at sea or her cargo or both have
been saved in whole or in part from impending sea peril, or in
recovering such property from actual peril or loss, as in cases
of shipwreck, derelict, or recapture.
Three elements are necessary to a valid salvage claim: 1. A
marine peril. 2. Service voluntarily rendered when not required as an existing duty or from a special contract. 3. Success
in whole or in part, or that the service rendered contributed to
such success.
Proof of success, to some extent, is as essential as proof of
service, for if the property is not saved, or if it perishes, or, in
case of capture, if it is not retaken, no compensation will be
Compensation as salvage is not viewed by the
allowed.
admiralty courts merely as pay on the principle of quantum
merult or as a remuneration pro oaere et labore, but as a reward
given for perilous services voluntarily rendered, and as an inducement to mariners to embark in such dangerous enterprises
to save life and property.
Sufficient appears to show that important assistance was rendered by the steamer "Mayflower" and her crew to the steamer
"Sabine," in the nature of salvage service, as alleged in the
libel. Both steamers were at the time in the Ouachita River,
and each was bound on a trip to the port of New Orleans.
When the "Mayflower" approached the landing described in
the libel, those in charge of her deck discovered that the steamer

Oct. 1879.]

THE "SABINE."

"Sabine" was in distress, and it appears that those in command
of the latter steamer bailed the "11Mayflower" and requested
assistance. It also appears from the pleadings that the injured
steamer had a cargo of six hundred and nineteen bales of cotton,
consigned to various merchants at the port of destination,
together with a number of passengers; that she and her cargo
were in peril, owing to the fact that in attempting to back out
from the landing she struck a snag or other obstruction beneath
the surface of the river and became fast. Many of her flooring
timbers and bottom planks were broken, and it is alleged that
she had in her hold sixteen to eighteen inches of water, which
was rapidly gaining on her pumps.
Success attended the efforts of the salvors, both as to the
steamer and her cargo, and they delivered all the cotton to the
consignees. Before the cargo was delivered to the consignees
they executed to the master of the "Sabine" an average bond,
agreeing to pay their respective proportions of whatever sums
should be found due as expenses, charges, and sacrifices in consequence of the said disaster.
Efforts to settle the matter amicably having failed, the owner,
master, and crew of the "Mayflower " filed a libel in the district court against the steamer "Sabine" and her cargo and
the several consignees to whom the cargo was delivered. Process issued, and the return of the marshal shows that he seized
the injured steamer. Service was also made upon the several
consignees, but it is not shown that the cargo saved or any part
of it was ever seized.
Due appearance was entered by the respective consignees,
and they filed certain exceptions to the libel. Those still relied
on are as follows: 1. That there was no seizure of the cargo
and that a libel in rem cannot be maintained without a seizure.
2. That the consignees are not proceeded against as owners or
possessors of the cargo. 8. That a suit in personam and a suit
in rem cannot be maintained in such a case. 4. That a suit
inpersonam for salvage services must be against those for whom
the services were performed. 5. That the respondents are
consignees, and that the cargo had been disposed of and accounted for to those who owned the cotton.
Hearing was had, and the district court sustained the excepVOL. X1.

25

THE "SABINE."[

[Sup. Ot.

tions and dismissed the libel as to the excepting parties. Dissatisfied with the decree of the district court the libellants
appealed to the circuit court, where they were again heard, and
the circuit court affirmed the decree of the district court. Still
not satisfied the libellants have appealed to this court, and now
assign for error that the circuit court erred in holding that the
nineteenth admiralty rule applies to the case, because, as they
insist, that the libel in this case is not a suit in rem and in
personam within the meaning of that rule, and that the exception should have been dismissed.
Suits for salvage may be in rem against the property saved
or the proceeds thereof, or inpersonamagainst the party at whose
request and for whose benefit the salvage service was performed.
Power is vested in the Supreme Court to regulate the practice
to be used in suits in equity or admiralty by the circuit or
district courts as conferred by an act of Congress, which has
been in force for many years. 5 Stat. 518; Rev. Stat., sect.
917.
Pursuant to that authority the Supreme Court prescribed the
preceding rule, which correctly describes the several modes in
which salvors may seek compensation for unrequited salvage
services. Salvors, under the maritime law, have a lien upon
the property saved, which enables them to maintain a suit in
rem against the ship or cargo, or both where both are saved in
whole or in part. Such a remedy is the one usually pursued,
and in view of the fact that the lien is maritime and exists
quite independently of possession, it ordinarily affords the best
mode of securing the payment of their salvage claims. Williams & Bruce Prac., 147. The Elizabeth and Jane, 1 Ware, 85;
The Bee, id. 332, 344. Suits of the kind may be enforced
against the proceeds of the property, where it appears that the
property saved had been previously seized under admiralty
process and sold, and the proceeds paid into the registry of the
court. Examples of the kind may be given, as where the
property saved consisting of the ship and cargo, and the same
were subsequently seized for a violation of the revenue laws,
and sold as perishable property before the libel for salvage was
instituted, or where there were more than one set of salvors,
and the first set caused the property to be seized and sold under

Oct. 1879.]

THE " SABINE."

an order of court before the second obtained process of attachment. Cases of the kind not infrequently arise, and in all such
the proceeds in the registry of the court represent the property
saved, and it is clear that the suit may be against the proceeds,
as provided in the nineteenth rule. The Blackwall, 10 Wall.
1, 12; The Ship Ewbanlk, 1 Sumn. 400.
Services of the kind are often rendered by more than one set
of salvors, and where that is so, the second, if they do not join
with the first set, may, as before remarked, proceed against the
proceeds, or they may, pending the proceeding in the suit, apply
to the court by petition to be admitted as parties to the original
libel. Adams v. Bark Iland City and Cargo, 1 Cliff. 210;
Norris v. Bark Island City and Cargo, 1 id. 219.
Compensation in such a case is usually enforced by a libel
in rem, but where the parties rendering the salvage service are
employed and sent out by the owners or insurers, the persons
employed may proceed in personam against their employers for
compensation, even though they were unsuccessful, unless they
contracted that their right to compensation should depend upon
their success, as in the ordinary case of salvage service, without
being antecedently employed.
Employers, in such a case, are liable to those rendering service,
under such circumstances, in a suit in personam, within the
last clause of the admiralty rule, but there is no authority for
holding that salvors may proceed against the ship and cargo
in rem and in Tersonam against the consignees of the cargo in
the same libel.
Libellants in a suit for collision may proceed against the ship
and master or against the ship alone, or in personam against the
master or the owner alone, but the terms of the nineteenth rule
are different, limiting the right of the salvor to a suit in rem
against the property saved or the proceeds thereof, or in personam
against the party at whose request and for whose benefit the
salvage service was performed.
Important service, it may be assumed, was rendered by the
libellants, but they were neither employed nor sent out by the
consignees, nor did the consignees request them to go to the
assistance or relief of the ship or cargo.
Concede that the request of the master for assistance would

THE "SABINE."[

[Sup. Ct.

be sufficient to enable the salvors to maintain an action in
personam against the owners of the property, still the concession
will not benefit the libellants in this case, as the libel is against
the ship and cargo and the consignees to whom the cargo was
delivered; nor would they be in any better condition even if
they had joined the owners instead of the consignees, as the
difficulty would still remain that the proceeding is in rem
against the ship and cargo and in personam against the owners
of the cargo, without joining the owners of the ship.
Persons to whom goods are consigned may be the owners of
the goods, or the goods may be the property of the consignors,
or they may even belong to a third party, the fact being that
the consignees are named in the bill of lading merely as agents
of the shipper to deliver the goods in pursuance of some letter
of advice. Nothing appears in this case to explain the transaction, except that it is alleged in the libel that the different parcels of the cargo when rescued were delivered to the several
respondents therein described as consignees.
Authorities may doubtless be found to support the proposition that the salvors may proceed in rem against the ship and
cargo or in personam against the owners of the property saved
from the impending peril, but there is no well-considered
authority which gives any countenance to the theory that the
two modes of proceeding may be joined in the same libel. The
Schooner Boston, I Sumn. 328, 341; The ope, 3 0. Rob. 215.
Actions in rem are prosecuted to enforce a right to things
arrested to perfect a maritime privilege or lien attaching to a
vessel or cargo or both, and in which the thing to be made
responsible is proceeded against as the real party, but actions
in personam are those in which an individual is charged personally in respect to some matter of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. Both the process and proceedings are different, and
the appropriate decree in the one might be absolutely absurd
in the other.
Our admiralty rules were promulgated in accordance with
the act of Congress, and, as Mr. Parsons says, they have all the
effect of law, from which he draws the conclusion that no suit
in such a case will lie against an owner inpersonam jointly with
a suit in rem against the vessel. 2 Parsons' Admr. 378; Dean

Oct. 1879.]

THE "SABINE."

v. Bates, 2 Woodb. & M. 87, 92; The Atlantic aAd The Ogdensburgh, I Newb. Adm. 139.
Beyond all doubt the views of Mr. Parsons are sustained by
the true construction of the nineteenth admiralty rule, which is
expressed throughout in the disjunctive form, and plainly
requires the action, if against the property saved or the proceeds
thereof, to be in rem, the alternative clause clearly referring to
a case where the property saved has been sold and the proceeds
of the sale have been deposited in the registry of the court.
Plain as that part of the rule is, further discussion of it is not
necessary, as the libellants scarcely attempt in that regard to
controvert the theory of the respondents.
Suppose the respondents are correct in that respect, still the
libellants insist that the fo rm of the libel may be supported
under the last clause of the rule, which gives the right to an
action in personam against the party at whose request and for
whose benefit the salvage service was performed, and their argument is that the service in the case resulted in a benefit to the
owners of the cargo; but the case fails to show that the owners
of the cargo ever requested the service, and it is clear that they
are not joined in the libel. They, the libellants, must show
the request and the benefit, and unless they show that both
concur they cannot make out a case even within their own
theory, to which it may be added that the libel is against the
consignees and not against the owner, unless it can be assumed
that the consignees are the owners of the cargo, which certainly is not authorized by any thing that appears in the transcript.
But there is not a circumstance in the case tending to show
that any such request was made, either by the consignees of the
cargo or the owners of the same, nor can it for a moment be
admitted that such an action can be maintained either against
the consignees or the owners merely because the saving of the
cargo resulted to their benefit. Volunteer assistance rendered
to such property when in peril, and which is successful in saving the property or some portion of it, constitutes the proper
foundation to support an action for salvage in rem against the
ship and cargo or the proceeds thereof.
Reported cases may be found where the owners or insurers of

THE "SABINE."

[Sup. Ct.

such property: being informed that the property was in peril,
sent out vessels and mariners for its assistance and relief, and
in such a case it is undoubtedly true that the persons employed,
both for their own services and for the use of the vessel or other
appliances, may maintain a libel in personam to enforce the
payment of just compensation for all such services.
There is a broad distinction, said Dr. Lushington, between
salvors who volunteer to go out and salvors who are employed
by a ship in distress. Salvors who volunteer go out at their
own risk for the chance of earning reward, and if not successful
they are entitled to nothing, the rule being that it is success
that gives them a title to salvage remuneration. But if men
are engaged to go out to the assistance of a ship in distress they
are to be paid according to their efforts, even though the labor
and service may not prove beneficial to the vessel or cargo. The
Undaunted, 1 Lush. 90.
No one can doubt that for such service the proper remedy is
an action in personam, as provided in the last clause of the
admiralty rule prescribing the mode of procedure to recover
salvage compensation. Unless the property saved is destroyed
after having been restored or is clandestinely removed from the
jurisdiction, the salvors require no more convenient or effectual
remedy than the action in rem against the property, as their
compensation cannot exceed its value, and if destroyed without
their fault or removed from the jurisdiction to defeat their
remedy, no doubt is entertained that they may proceed in personam against the owners of the salved property, though the
case is not specifically provided for in the nineteenth rule, to
which reference has been made. The .Emblem, 2 Ware, 61 ;
The Schooner Boston, supra; Dunlap, Prac. 511; The Trelawney, 3 C. Rob. 216, note.
Mere employment to render such a service is no bar to such
a libel, the rule being that nothing short of a contract to pay a
given sum for the services to be rendered, or a binding engagement to pay at all events, whether successful or unsuccessful in
the enterprise, will defeat the jurisdiction of the admiralty
court. The Camanche, 8 Wall. 448, 477.
Compensation for such services, if voluntarily rendered, cannot exceed the value of the property saved, and for that the

Oct. 1879.]

GAY v. PARPART.

salvors have a maritime lien on the property independent of
possession, and which continues until the compensation is paid,
so long as the property remains in specie. Maclachlan, Ship.
(2d ed.) 593; The Gustaf, 1 Lush. 506; Maude & Pollock,
Ship. (3d ed.) 487.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions it is clear to a
demonstration that the decision of the Circuit Court is correct.
.ott v. Sabine &Cargo et al., 2 Woods, 211.
Decree affirmed.

GAY v. PAItPARiT.
1. Where an appeal has been taken to this court the condition of the bond that
the appellants "shall duly prosecute their said appeal with effect, and, moreover, pay the amount of costs and damages rendered and to be rendered in
case the decree shall be affirmed in said court," meets all the requirements
of Sect. 1000 Rev. Stat.
2. In such a case the court will not entertain a motion by the appellee to affirm
the decree appealed from.
MOTION to vacate the supersedeas and dismiss an appeal from
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois.

M£r. George Herbert and Mr. Lawrence Proudfoot, in support
of the motions.
31r. Lyman Trumbull, Mr. .EdwardZ S. Iham and Mr. Bobert T. Lincoln, contra.
IR. CHiF JUSTICO W&iTE, delivered the opinion of the court.
These motions are founded on an alleged defect in the form
of the condition of the bond. By sect. 1000 Rev. Stat., the
security to be taken on a writ of error or an appeal, where the
writ or the appeal is a supersedeas and stays execution, must
be "that the plaintiff in error or the appellant shall prosecute
his writ or appeal to effect, and, if he fails to make his plea
good, shall answer all damages and costs." The condition of
the bond in this case is, that the appellants "shall duly prosecute their said appeal with effect, and, moreover, pay the amount

