Oct. 1879.]

NouGuI V. CLAPP.

NOUGUi

v. CLAPP.

The Circuit Court of the United States cannot revise or set aside the final decree
rendered by a State court which had complete jurisdiction of the parties and
subject-matter.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Bentinec Fgan for the appellant.
Mr. Philip Plillips, contra.
JUSTICE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in chancery, which was dismissed by the decree
of the court below for want of jurisdiction.
The bill, though very informal, sets out certain proceedings
in the State court of Louisiana for the parish of St. John the
Baptist, under which real property on which the complainant
held a mortgage for a large amount had been sold, which, if
permitted to stand, cut off the lien of his 'mortgage. These
proceedings were based ostensibly on notes and mortgages
given by himself to one Emory Clapp for the purchase-money
of the property. The bill alleges, however, that Schexueyder
Brothers, to whom plaintiff had sold the property, had assumed
the payment of those notes as part of the consideration of the
sale to them, and had given him a mortgage for over $14,000
in addition; that after said Schexueyder Brothers had in fact
paid off said mortgage to Clapp, they entered into a fraudulent
conspiracy with him to have the property sold under that mortgage for the purpose of cheating the complainant out of the
$14,000 due him by defeating his lien on the land; that a suit
was commenced in a parish of which the complainant was not
a resident, of which he had no sufficient notice, though he was
by the petition made a party; that in this proceeding a summary order of sale was had; that before the sale the plaintiff
applied to the judge and obtained an order for injunction, which
the clerk refused to issue, and the property was sold to said
Clapp for the sum of $10,000. He charges that the refusal of
AI.

NOUGUt V. CLAPP.

[Sup. Ct.

the clerk -to issue the writ of injunction was a part of the
fraudulent conspiracy to cheat him out of his lien on the land,
and that the whole proceeding is void. He also alleges that
his loss or damage by this proceeding is $20,000, for which he
prays a judgment or decree.
To this bill Clapp filed what is called an exception to the
jurisdiction, a demurrer, and a plea. Both the exception and
the demurrer are founded on the proposition that the bill being
the equivalent of a proceeding in the State courts to procure a
declaration of nullity of a judgment, can only be filed in the
court which rendered the judgment. The plea sets up a proceeding in the State court on a monition whereby, under the
laws of Louisiana, after a judicial sale, certain proceedings in
the nature of notice to all the world are had, and a judgment of
confirmation of the sale is rendered.
The final decree of the court is thus set out in the record:
"This cause came on to be heard on the plea in bar, exception,
and demurrer to complainant's bill, and was argued by counsel.
"On consideration whereof it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that the exception to jurisdiction of the court and demurrer be
sustained, and complainant's bill dismissed with costs.
"Decree rendered March 20, 1877.
"Decree signed March 24, 1877."
It -will thus be seen that the plea was not considered in the
case, or if considered, the decree was not founded on it. Indeed,
this could not be so without error. The proper mode of treating a plea is to set it down for hearing as to its sufficiency to
meet the bill, or so much of the bill as it purports to cover. If
found to be sufficient, the complainant has a right to reply to
it by denying its allegations, or otherwise putting it in issue.
See Equity Rules, 32, 83, and 84, prescribed by this court. So
also by these rules the charge of a fraudulent combination to
cheat the complainant required that the plea should have been
accompanied by an answer denying the fraud under oath. The
plea may, therefore, be considered as out of the case.
The demurrer may be held to include the exception as one
of its grounds, and thus the case stands on bill and demurrer,
and the sole question is whether, though there may be things

Oct.1879.]

NOUGUA V. CLAPP.

in the bill which, if specially demurred to, would be bad, it is a
bill in which a court of equity could found relief.
As regards the claim to recover $20,000 damages we see no
reason for going into equity. If such a recovery can be had at
all it can be had as well at law. It is a proper case for a jury
to determine whether there has been a combination to cheat
and defraud plaintiff, and the amount he should recover for
such fraud. It would seem, also, that to such a suit the
Sehexueyder Brothers, for whose benefit the fraud was committed, and who were its principal instigators, and whose actions
were essential to its success, should be made parties. The
charge is that they had assumed to pay the mortgage to Clapp,
and had paid it, and then conspired with him to have the property, which was in their possession, and to which they had
title, sold to defraud complainant out of his $14,000. However
it may be at law, in chancery they are necessary parties to such
a suit.
But the main purpose of this bill, perhaps its only real
object, is to have the proceedings in the State court declared
void.
That court had jurisdiction of the parties and of the subjectmatter of the controversy. Complainant in this bill entered
his appearance in that suit at a proper stage of it, to enable him
to contest the right of Clapp to have the property sold. The
debt for which it was to be sold was complainant's debt to
Clapp.
The usual mode in the courts of Louisiana of contesting the
right to foreclose a mortgage is by obtaining an injunction,
after which the rights of the parties are judicially determined
by the court. Complainant appeared and obtained an order for
such an injunction.
If this order was not obeyed it was for that court, not this,
to give remedy. If the court below refused to do it, there was
an appeal to the Supreme Court of the State. After the sale
he could, by a motion to the court, have had it set aside; and
that was the proper place for such a remedy.
The laws of Louisiana also provide a remedy by a special
proceeding, to have a declaration of nullity of judgment in
such cases as this in the court where the decree is entered.

NouGu

v. CLAPP.

[Sup. Ot.

There is no allegation that the plaintiff sought any of these
remedies.
We think that for this court, after all this has been done, to
undertake to decree that what that court did is void, to sit in
review on its judgment, and reverse its decree and set aside its
sale, in a case where its jurisdiction is undoubted, is unwarranted by the relations which subsist between the two courts.
It would be an invasion of the powers belonging to that court,
and such a doctrine would, upon the simple allegation of fraud
practised in the court, enable a party to retry in a Federal
court any case decided against him in a State court.
We are not without precedent in such a case. In Randall
v. Howard (2 Black, 585), the owner of lands encumbered by
a mortgage made a friendly arrangement with the mortgagee,
by which the latter was to foreclose the mortgage and buy
them in, ostensibly for his own use, but with the understanding
that he was to hold them for the use 6f the mortgagor as if no
sale had been made. Regular proceedings were had in the
State courts of amyland, by which a decree of foreclosure and
a sale were had, to all which the mortgagor made no defence.
He afterwards filed his bill in chancery in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Maryland, charging that
by reason of this agreement the mortgagee bought in the property for much less than its real value; that he now refuses to
acknowledge any interest of complainant in the property, and
is trying to sell it, whereby it may come into the hands of
innocent purchasers for value; that all this is in violation of
his agreement and a fraud upon complainant's rights, and in
furtherance of this fraudulent and oppressive course he has
ejected complainant from the premises by a process of the
State court. He prays for an injunction to restrain the defendant from selling the property, for a sale of so much of the
land as is necessary to pay the mortgage debt, and for a conveyance to complainant of the remainder, and for general relief.
The bill was dismissed on demurrer.
The question whether that court had jurisdiction is answered
in this language: "The bill in this case brings in review
various matters passed on in the progress of the suit by the
Cecil County Circuit Court, a court of general jurisdiction,

Oct. 1879.]

DURANT v. ESSEX Co.

having complete control of the parties and of the subject-matter
of the controversy.
"It seeks to annul a sale of lands made by virtue of a decree
of the Cecil court, sitting as a court of equity, in a cause
depending between the same parties; to effect the distribution
of the proceeds of the sale, to enjoin the defendant from making
any disposition of the lands purchased by him; to disturb his
possession, to invalidate his title, and to have the property
resold.
"This is a direct and positive interference with the rightful
authority of the State court. If there was error in the proceedings of the court a review can be had in the appellate
tribunals of the State. If, as is charged, the decree is sought
to be perverted, and made the medium of consummating a
wrong, then the court on petition or supplemental bill can
pyevent it."
These views, we think, dispose of the present case, and
require an affirmance of the decree of the court below. It is
So ordered.

Du:RANT v. EssEx ComrPANY.
1. The Circuit Court, when its decree is affirmed and the mandate filed there,
must record the order of this court and proceed with the execution of the
decree.
2. For all the purposes of the case, a judgment of affirmance here by a divided
court is as effectual as if all the judges had concurred therein.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3ir. B. 1?. Hodges for the appellant.
The court declined to hear counsel for the appellee.

iR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case shows that on or about the 11th of October, 1847,
the present appellant filed his bill in equity in the court below

