BAKER V. HUMPHREY.

[Sup. Ot.

and that if he was, his invention had been abandoned to the
public before his patent was granted.
It follows that the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the
bill must be affirmed, with costs; and it is
So ordered.

BAKER v. HUmTiHREY.
1. A. conveyed premises in 1851 to B., and took from him a mortgage for the
purchase-money. Both deeds were recorded. B. never took possession.
A., by an instrument recorded March 19, 1852, assigned the mortgage to
C., who conveyed the premises with warranty to D., under whom complainant claims title. B. lived near the premises for years, and knew that C.
and others were in adverse possession claiming title, but never claimed or
intimated that he had himself any title. B. drew the conveyance of C. to
D., and as a notary public took C.'s acknowledgment thereto, and was
silent as to any defect in the title. B. executed a quitclaim deed of the
premises in 1872 to a stranger. Held, that the facts made a complete case
of estoppd in pais, and that nothing passed by B.'s deed.
2. An attorney employed by both parties to an agreement for the purchase of
land for the sum of 58,000, upon discovering a defect in the title, concealed
the fact from one of the parties, and in accordance with a secret agreement
with the other procured a conveyance by quitclaim for the sum of ,$25 to E.,
his own brother. Held, that his conduct was a gross breach of professional
duty, and that E. should be decreed on receiving the purchase-money, 25,
to convey to the injured party the premises, with covenant against the title
of E. and all others claiming under him.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
This was a bill filed by Sandford Baker against George P.
Humphrey, Hiram D. Hurd, Charles A. Hurd, and David
Smith, to have the ostensible legal title to certain premises
which had vested in Humphrey by one Chapman declared to
have been fraudulently obtained, and that Humphrey be adjudged to convey the premises to the complainant. The bill
was heard upon the pleadings and proofs, and dismissed. Baker
appealed here.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Theodore Romeyn for the appellant.
Mr. George W. Dyer and Xr John Atkinson, contra.

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER V. HUMPHREY.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in equity. A brief statement of the case,
as made by the bill, will be sufficient for the purposes of this
opinion.
On the 27th of February, 1851, one William Scott conveyed
the premises in controversy to Bela Chapman, taking from him
a mortgage for the amount of the purchase-money, which was
1$3.500.
Both the deed and mortgage were properly recorded. Chapman did not take possession of the premises. On the 29th
of November, 1851, Scott assigned the mortgage to Jacob
Sammons.
The assignment was duly recorded on the 19th of March,
1852. Sammons conveyed the premises with warranty to William Ml. Belote. From him there is a regular sequence of conveyances down to the complainant, Baker. Chapman lived
near the property for years, and knew that Sammons and
others were in adverse possession and claimed title, but never
claimed or intimated that he had any title himself. He drew
deeds of warranty aid quit-claim of the premises from others
claiming under Scott, and, as a justice of the peace or notarypublic, took the acknowledgment of such deeds. Upon these
occasions also he was silent as to any defect in the title.
The complainant entered into a contract with the defendants Hurd & Smith to sell and convey the premises to them for
the sum of $8,000.
He employed Wells S. Humphrey, a reputable attorney,
who, for a long time, had been employed by the complainant
when he had any legal business to do, to draw the contract.
Humphrey accordingly drew the agreement and -witnessed its
execution. Hurd & Smith thereupon took possession and held
it when the bill was filed. They employed Humphrey to procure an abstract of title. In examining the title he found there
was no deed from Chapman.
He thereupon sought out Chapman, and by representing to
him that the object was to protect the title of clients, procured
Chapman to execute a quit-claim deed of the premises to
George P. Humphrey, the brother of the attorney, for the sum
of $25. The deed bears date the 10th of June, 1872. George
M , JUSTICE SWAY-E

BAKER V. HUMPHREY.

[Sup. Cr.

knew nothing of the transaction until some time afterwards.
An action of ejectment was instituted in his name to recover
the property. Baker tendered to him $25, the amount he had
paid for the deed; offered to pay any expenses incurred in his
procuring it, and demanded a release. He declined to accept
or convey.
The prayer of the bill is that the deed to George P.
Humphrey be decreed to be fraudulent, and to stand for the
benefit of the complainant; that the grantee be directed to
convey to Baker, upon such terms as may be deemed equitable,
and for general relief.
Such is the complainant's case, according to the averments
of the bill.
The testimony leaves no room for doubt as to the material
facts of the case.
The direction for drawing the contract between Hurd &
Smith and Baker, was given to the attorney by Robling, the
agent of Baker. Baker resided in Canada. Hurd & Smith
directed the attorney to procure the abstract of title. With
this Baker and Robling had nothing to do: The attorney disclosed the state of the title to Hard & Smith, bat carefully
concealed it from Robling. Hurd & Smith being assured by
the attorney that whatever they might pay Baker could be
recovered back if his title failed, executed the contract with
Baker, and declined to buy the Chapman title, but gave the
attorney their permission to buy it for himself. There is evidence in the record tending strongly to show that there was a
secret agreement between them and the attorney, that if the
Chapman title were sustained they should have the property
for $5,000, which was -3,000 less than they had agreed to pay
Baker. This would effect to them a saving of $3,000 in the
cost. They refused to file this bill, and declined to have
anything to do with the litigation. It thus appears that,
though unwilling to join in the battle, they were willing to
share in the spoils with the adversary if the victory should be
on that side.
There is in the record a bill for professional services rendered
by the attorney against Baker. It contains a charge of $2
for drawing the contract with Hurd & Smith. The aggregate

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER V. HUMPHREY.

amount of the bill is $43. The first item is dated July 5, 1871,
and the last July 12, 1872. The latter is the charge for drawing the contract. There is also a like bill against Baker and
Smith of $45, and one against Baker and Mears of $6. These
accounts throw light on the relation of client and counsel as it
subsisted between the attorney and Baker.
With respect to Chapman we shall let the record speak for
itself. Vincent testifies: "I asked him, How is it, Chapman?
I thought you owned that property" (referring to the premises
in controversy). "He said, 'N o; I never paid anything on it.'
He said, ' Sammons has a right to rent. It is his property.'
I.. asked him how he came with the deed from Scott,
'I
and he said, ' It was only to shield Sammons; that afterwards
Michael Dansmon paid the debt and the property went back to
Sammons.' . .. ' When I met Bela Chapman, and he asked
for Sammons and wife, he said he had drawn a deed from
Sammons and wife to Belote for the premises, and wanted them
to sign it.'
Francis Sammons, a son of Sammons, the grantor to Belote,
says: "A part of a house situated on that lot three was leased
by my father to Bela Chapman, in 1851, for the purpose of
storing goods, and he afterwards lived in it a while. I collected
the rent. I think he occupied it with his goods and family
about three months. He never occupied or had possession of
the premises at any other time, to my knowledge. He came
from Mackinac when he put the goods in that house. He
remained here four or five years after he came from Mackinac.
He lived in Mackinac until his death. He came over to Cheboygan several times after he went to reside at Mackinac.
Sometimes he would stay a week or two, visiting. At the time
he lived here he was a notary-public, justice of the peace, and
postmaster. I know he was in the habit of drawing deeds and
mortgages for any one that called on him. I don't think there
was any one else here during the year 1852 and 1853 who
drew deeds and mortgages bat Bela Chapman in this village.
My father sold the premises to William S. M. Belote. My
father was in possession of the premises from 1846 until he
sold to Belote."
Medard Metivier says: "I hold the office of county clerk
vOL xi,

32

BAKER V. HUMPHREY.

[Sup. Ct.

and register of deeds for Cheboygan County; have held these
offices since 1872.' . . . ' I am in my sixtieth year. I came
to live in this village in 1851. Lived here ever since, except
about six years when I lived in Mackinac and Chicago during
the war. I know Jacob Sammons and Bela Chapman; they
are both dead. I remember being at the house of Jacob Sammons when a deed was executed by Sammons and wife to
Belote. I witnessed the deed. That deed was witnessed by
and acknowledged before Bela Chapman, as notary-public. I
think there was another deed executed by Sammons and wife
to Belote, which I witnessed when Bela Chapman was present.
I remember the circumstances distinctly of one deed being
executed, witnessed by myself and Chapman, from the fact
that the room was very dark, owing to Mrs. Sammons having
very sore eyes, and we had to raise the curtain for more light.
There was not any other full-grown person there, unless Mr.
Belote was there, about which I cannot state positively, than
Mr. and Mrs. Sammons, Mr. Chapman, and myself. A part of
the deed which I witnessed was in print. It was an old-fashioned form of printed deed. Mr. Chapman brought the form
from Mackinac or somewhere. He only had them here. I know
the premises described in the bill in this cause, and Chapman
-was never in possession of them to my knowledge. I know
MAr. Chapman's handwriting very well, and I remember particularly that the deeds witnessed by myself and Mr. Chapman
and acknowledged before him were in his (Chapman's) handwriting, and that he drew both of them. I know one of the
deeds then executed by Sammons and wife to Belote conveyed
the premises in question and other property; cannot tell all of
the other property."
These witnesses are unimpeached and are to be presumed
unimpeachable. Their testimony is conclusive as to Chapmans's relation to the property. If there could be any doubt
on the point, it is removed by the fact that for $25 he conveyed
property about to be sold and which was sold by Baker to
responsible parties for $8,000. This fact alone is decisive as
to the character of the transaction with respect to both parties.
No honest mind can contemplate for a moment the conduct of
the attorney without the strongest sense of disapprobation.

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER V. HUMPHREY.

Chapman conveyed by a deed of quit-claim to the attorney's
brother. The attorney procured the deed to be so made. It
was the same thing in the view of the law as if it had been
made to the attorney himself. Neither of them was in any
sense a bona-fide purchaser. No one taking a quit-claim deed
fay v. Le Claire, 11 Wall. 217.
can stand in that relation.
There are other obvious considerations which point to the
same conclusion as a matter of fact. It is unnecessary to
specify them, and we prefer not to do so.
The admission of Chapman while he held the legal title,
being contrary to his interest, are competent evidence against
him and those claiming under him. He said the object of the
conveyance to him was to protect the property against a creditor
of Sammons. If such were the fact, the deed was declared void
by the statute of Michigan against fraudulent conveyances (2
Comp. Laws of Mich. 146) ; and it was made so by the common
law. The aid of the statute was not necessary to this result.
Clements v. Moore, 6 Wall. 299. Nothing, therefore, passed by
the deed to Chapman's grantee.
Chapman's connection with the deed from Sammons to
Belote would bar him, if living, from setting up any claim at
law or in equity to the premises. The facts make a complete
case of estoppel in pais. This subject was fully examined in
.Dikersonv. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578. We need not go over the
same ground again. See, also, City of Cineinnati v. the Lessee
of White, 6 Pet. 431; Doe v. Rosser, 3 East, 15; and Brown v.
Wheeler, 17 Conn. 353.
If Chapman had nothing to convey, his grantee could take
nothing by the deed.
The latter is in exactly the situation the former would
occupy if he were living and were a party to this litigation.
The estoppel was conclusive in favor of Belote and those
claiming under him, and this complainant has a right to insist
upon it.
But there is another and a higher ground upon which our
judgment may be rested.
The relation of client and counsel subsisted between the
attorney and Baker. The employment to draw the contract
with Hurds & Smith was not a solitary instance of professional

BAKER V. HUmPHREY.

[Sup. Ot.

service which the latter was called upon to render to the
former. The bills of the attorney found in the record show
the duration of the connection and the extent and variety
of the items charged and paid for. They indicate a continuous understanding and consequent employment. Undoubtedly
either party had the right to terminate the connection at any
time; and if it were done, the other would have had no right to
complain. But, until this occurred, the confidence manifested
by the client give him the right to expect a corresponding
return of zeal, diligence, and good faith on the part of the
attorney.
The employment to draw the contract was sufficient alone to
put the parties in this relation to each other. Galbraith
v. Elder, 8 Watts, (Pa.) 81; Smith v. Brotherline, 62 Pa. St.
461. But whether the relation subsisted previously or was
created only for the purpose of the particular transaction in
question, it carried with it the same consequences. Williamson
v. Moriarty, 19 Weekly Reporter, 818.
It is the duty of an attorney to advise the client promptly
whenever he has any information to give which it is important
the client should receive. Hoops v. Burnett, 26 Miss. 428;
Jett v. Hempstead, 25 Ark. 462; Fox v. Cooper, 2 Q. B. 827.
In Taylor v. Blacklow (3 Bing. N. C. 235) an attorney employed to raise money on a mortgage learned the existence
of certain defects in his client's title and disclosed them to
another person. As a consequence his client was subjected to
litigation and otherwise injured. It was held that an action
would lie against the attorney and that the client was entitled
to recover.
In Com. Dig. tit. "Action upon the case for a Deceit, A. 5,"
it is said that such an action lies "if a man, being entrusted in
his profession, deceive him who entrusted him; as if a man retained of counsel became afterwards of counsel with the other
party in the same cause, or discover the evidence or secrets of
the cause. So if an attorney act deceptive to the prejudice of
his client, as if by collusion with the demandant he make
default in a real action whereby the land is lost."
It has been held that if counsel be retained to defend a particular title to real estate he can never thereafter, unless his

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER V. HUMPHREY.

client consent, buy the opposing title without holding it in
trust for those then having the title he was employed to sustain. Henry v. Bainan, 25 Pa. St. 354. Without expressing
any opinion as to the soundness of this case with respect to the
extent to which the principle of trusteeship is asserted, it may
be laid down as a general rule that an attorney can in no case,
without the client's consent, buy and hold otherwise than in
trust, any adverse title or interest touching the thing to which
his employment relates. He cannot in such a way put himself in an adversary position without this result. The cases to
this effect are very numerous and they are all in harmony.
We refer to a few of them. Smith v. Brotherline, 62 Pa. St.
461; .Davis v. Smith, 43 Vt. 269; Wheeler v. Willard, 44 id.
641; Giddings v. Eastman, 5 Paige (N. Y.) 561; Moore et al.
v. Bracken, 27 Ill. 23; Harper v. Perry, 28 Wis. 57; Rockenbury v. Carlisle, 5 Watts and S. (Pa.) 348 ; Hobedy v. Peters,
6 Jurist, pt. 1, 1,794; Jett v. Hempstead, 25 Ark. 462; Case
v. Carroll, 35 N. Y. 385; Lewis v. Hillman, 3 H. L. Gas. 607.
The same principle is applied in cases other than those of
attorney and client.
Where there are several joint lessees and one of them procures a renewal of the lease to himself; the renewal enures
equally to the benefit of all the original lessees. Burrell v.
Bull, 3 Sandf. (N. Y.) Ch. 15.
Where there are two joint devisees and one of them buys up
a paramount outstanding title, he holds it in trust for the other
to the extent of his interest in the property, the cestui que trust
refunding his proportion of the purchase-money. Van Horne v.
Fonda, 5 Johns. (N. Y.), Ch. 388.
Where a surety takes up the obligation of himself and principal, he can enforce it only to the extent of what he paid and
interest. _Beed v. Norris, 2 Myl. & Cr. 361.
Where a lessee had made valuable improvements pursuant
to the requirements of his lease, and procured an adverse title
intending to hold the premises in his own right, it was held that
he was a trustee and entitled only to be paid what the title cost
him. Cleavinger v. Beimar, 3 Watts & S. (Pa.) 486.
The case in hand is peculiarly a fit one for the application of
the principle we have been considering. It is always danger-

BAKER v. HUMPHREY.

[Sup. Ct.

ous for counsel to undertake to act, in regard to the same thing,
for parties whose interests are diverse. Such a case requires
care and circumspection on his part. Here there could be no
objection, there being no apparent conflict of interests, but
upon discovering that the title was imperfect it was the duty
of the attorney promptly to report the result to Baker as well
as to Hurds & Smith, and to advise with the former, if it were
desired, as to the best mode of curing the defect. Instead of
doing this he carefully concealed the facts from Baker, gave
Hurds & Smith the choice of buying, and, upon their declining,
bought the property for himself, and has since been engaged in
a. bitter litigation to wrest it from Baker. For his lapse at the
outset there might be some excuse, but for his conduct subse.quently there can be none. Both are condemned alike by
sound ethics and the law. They are the same upon the subject.
Actual fraud in such cases is not necessary to give the client a
right to redress. A breach of duty is "constructive fraud,"
and is sufficient. Story, Eq. Jur. sects. 258, 311.
The legal profession is found wherever Christian civilization
exists. Without it society could not well go on. But, like all
other great instrumentalities, it may be potent for evil as well
as for good. Hence the importance of keeping it on the high
plane it ought to occupy. Its character depends upon the conduct of its members. They are officers of the law, as well as
the agents of those by whom they are employed. Their fidelity
is guaranteed by the highest considerations of honor and good
faith, and to these is superadded the sanction of an oath. The
slightest divergence from rectitude involves the breach of all
these obligations. None are more honored or more deserving
than those of the brotherhood who, uniting ability with integrity, prove faithful to their trusts and worthy of the confidence
reposed in them. Courts of justice can best serve both the
public and the profession by applying firmly upon all proper
occasions the salutary rules which have been established for
their government in doing the business of their clients.
We shall discharge that duty in this instance by reversing
the decree of the Circuit Court and remanding the case, with
directions to enter a decree whereby it shall be required that
the complainant, Baker, deposit in the clerk's office for the use

Oct. 1879.]

8.HALL
V. RUSSELL.

of the defendant, George P. Humphrey, the sum of $25, and
that Humphrey thereupon convey to Baker the premises described in the bill, and that the deed contain a covenant against
the grantor's own acts and against the demands of all other
persons claiming under him; and it is
So ordered.

HALL V. RUSSELL.
1. The act of Congress approved Sept. 27, 1850 (9 Stat. 496), commonly known
as the Donation Act, granted to each person having the requisite qualifications the right to settle upon and cultivate a tract of public land in Oregon
not in any case exceeding in extent one section, or six hundred and forty
acres, in order that he might, upon complying with all the prescribed conditions and making proof thereof, be entitled to a patent for such tract.
2. The title to the soil does not vest in the settler before the conditions have
been fully performed. Qucre, Does it pass from the United States until
the requisite final proof of their performance be made ?
3. A., an unmarried man, settled, in 1852, upon a half-section of public land in
Oregon, and, after residing thereon less than a year, died. Held, that he
had no devisable interest in the land.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Oregon.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

31r. William W. Chapman and Mr. Timothy D. Lincoln for
the appellants.
Mr. George ff. Williams, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the heirs of the devisee of
James L. Loring, deceased, and the administrator of Loring
with the will annexed, to obtain the legal title to a tract of
three hundred and three acres of land near Portland, Oregon,
which, as the complainants claim, the defendants hold in trust
for them. The facts material to the view we take of the case
are as follows: In the month of April, 1852, Loring, a single man, settled

