UNITED STATES V. CLAIIORGAN.

[Sup. Ck,

UINITED STATES V. CLA.OIGAIT.
CLAIOIGAN V. UNITED STATES.
1. The court reaffirms its rulings in Scull v. United States (98 U. S. 410) as to the
nature of the title whereon a suit can, under sect. 11 of the act of June
30,
1860 (12 Stat. 86), be maintained against the United States for lands claimed
under a grant from the French or the Spanish authorities in Louisiana.
2. The claim in this cause, founded upon an alleged grant made at St. Louis by
Trudeau, lieutenant-governor, March 3, 1797, examined, and held not to be
within the provisions of that section.
APPEALS from the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Missouri.
This was a suit for lands in Missouri, brought against the
United States by parties claiming under James Clamorgan,
who presented his petition, - which they filed as an exhibit, dated at St. Louis, March 1, 1797, to Don Zenon Trudeau,
Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Louisiana, praying there be
granted to him on the western side of the river Mississippi,
some leagues above the mouth of the Missouri, the tract of
land bounded on one side by the little river called Lacharette,
alias Dardenne, and on the other by the little river called
An Cuivre, - one on the south, the other on the north, will
serve as boundaries to those two sides; also sixty arpens of
land in front of the banks of the Mississippi, immediately adjoining the mouth of the first above-named river, Laeharette,
in descending the current of the Mississippi; and again sixty
arpens in front, also, on the banks of the Mississippi, adjoining
immediately to the upper side of the mouth of the second
above-named river, Au Cuivre, and ascending the current of
the Mississippi. The depth of the three different abovedescribed tracts of land to be extended by two lines starting
from the banks of the Mississippi, one from the most southern
and the other from the most northern point (of the front) of the
above-demanded tracts, which two lines shall be run parallel on
each side, in a westwardly direction, until they reach the top
of the high hills in the rear; and from there the said two lines
to be continued and prolonged in the same westwardly direction until they reach a point at the distance of about two hun-

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. CLAMORGAN.

dred arpens from the foot of said hills, and then those two
extreme points shall be connected together by a straight line
which shall be run so as to form the fourth side of the said
three tracts here above demanded; the said lines encompassing
in their extent all the waters of the above-mentioned rivers,
Lacharette, alia8 Dardenne, and Au Cuivre, in order that
hereafter the petitioner may erect saw and grist mills thereon,
also place there a number of cattle, have slaughter-houses,
and send salt meat to the capital.
The plaintiffs also filed the following papers as exhibits :
"Don Zenon Trudeau, captain in the regiment of Louisiana,
lieutenant-colonel by brevet, and lieutenant-governor of the western
part of Illinois:
"Cognizance being taken of the statement made by Don Santiago
Clamorgan, and the governor-general, the Baron de Carondelet,
having particularly recommended to me to facilitate and protect the
discovery and commerce of Upper Missouri, in which the abovenamed Clamorgan has engaged at my entreaties, considering the
losses which said enterprise has occasioned to him, and the new
expenses to which he shall have to contribute on account of the
same undertaking, and how important it is to favor and extend the
discoveries herebefore mentioned, without prejudice to the royal
treasury, and to the interest and welfare of these settlements, but,
on the contrary, in contributing to their prosperity by drawing
new inhabitants:
"For these considerations, and on account of the said Clamorgan
having rendered himself worthy and deserving of the favors of the
government, the surveyor of this jurisdiction (as soon as the occupations of his place will permit) shall survey in favor of the party
interested the extent of land he solicits in the way and manner
described in the foregoing document, which, together with the plat
and certificate of survey, and of the boundaries which shall be set
(to said land), will form the title of concession, which in due time
he shall have to lay before the general government of the province,
inorder to get its approbation and record.
,ST.

Louis, March 3,1797."

" ZExo" TRuDEAu.

"ST. Louis, July 3,1797.
"Under date of April 5, of this current year, the governor-general, Baron de Carondelet, writes to me as follows : -

'824

UNITED

STATES V. CLAMORGAN.

[Sup. 0t.

"'I have read your official note, dated 11th of last March, in
which you state the motives which have induced you to grant to
Mr. Clamorgan the tract of land situated between the two rivers
Charette and Cuivre, both emptying into the Mississippi; also sixty
arpens to the south of said rivers, which serve to determine the
situation of said land, having the Mississippi in front. Two parallel lines are to be drawn, running in the interior of the country until
they reach at the distance of two hundred arpens beyond the foot
of the first hills, conformably to the solicitation of the party interested.
"' All which I do approve, Clamorgan having deserved this favor
fiom the government.'
"I transmit the same to you for your knowledge and government.
May God have you in his keeping many years. "ZEwor
TRuDEAu.
"S'or

DoN SANTIAGO CLAMORGAN."

Clamorgan filed, at St. Louis, June 27, 1808, notice of his
claim before the recorder of land titles. He filed therewith
the above evidence of title, and presented it to the board of land
commissioners, Nov. 14, 1811. Upon it he claimed five hundred thousand arpens of land, situate on the rivers Mississippi,
Dardenne, and Cuivre, district of St. Charles; sixty arpens
front on Mississippi, Charette, and Dardenne, back to the hills
about two hundred arpens, district of St. Charles; and sixty
arpens of land front on the Mississippi, commencing above
the mouth of the Cuivre, up the Mississippi and back to the
hills. The board was of opinion that the claim ought not to
be confirmed.
The claim was presented June 21, 1833, by the representatives of Clamorgan, to the board organized under the act of
July 9, 1832, for the final adjustment of private land claims
in Missouri. 4 Stat. 565. Testimony was taken, and the concession of Trudeau and his letter to Clamorgan produced. The
members of the board, Sept. 26, 1835, recorded their unanimous opinion that the claim ought not to be confirmed.
The United States filed an answer to the bill in this suit
denying its material allegations, and insisting as a bar to the
relief claimed that the lands in question had not at the time of
the cession of Louisiana been severed from the royal domain,
the concession being only inchoate and the description of them

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. CLAMORGAN.

vague; and that the conditions of taking possession - viz.
building mills, slaughter-houses, &c.- had never been performed by the claimant. It was admitted that the claimed
lands had been sold or disposed of by the United States. The
District Court, upon a final hearing, decreed that the concession
by Trudeau, of March 3, 1797, to Clamorgan, ratified and confirmed April 5, 1797, by Governor-General Carondelet, was a
title binding on the United States, and that the complainants
were entitled to recover certificates for 94,136 acres, to be located upon public land subject to private entry.
From the decree the United States and the complainants
appealed: the former assigning for error that the court below
erred in not dismissing the bill; and the latter, that the decree
should have been for 675,000 acres.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the
court.
The Solicitor-General, for the United States.
.tr. Willis Jrummond,Mr. William B. Walker, and fr. J. L.
Bradford, contra.
MR. JUSTor MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree was that Clamorgan and others recover of the
United States certificates under the sixth section of the act of
Congress of June 22, 1860 (12 Stat. 85), for 94,136 acres of
land, to be located on any of the public lands of the United
States subject to private entry, in lieu of the original concession by the Spanish authorities to James Clamorgan, their
ancestor, all of the land embraced in that concession having
been disposed of by the United States. That act having
expired by its own terms, was revived by the act of June 10,
1872, and under it this suit was instituted against the United
States in May, 1873. The statute in question was the subject
of very full consideration at the last term in Scull v. United
States, 98 U. S. 410. As we see no reason to modify the construction then given to it, we might, but for the very large
amount involved, decide the present suit by a simple reference
to that case as the foundation of our judgment.
The act of 1860 was the latest, as it was intended to be the
end, of a series of statutes for the adjustment of land claims

UNITED STATES V. CLAIORGAN.

[Sup. ot.

within the territory ceded to the United States by France, but
to portions of which there were private claims arising under
the French and the Spanish governments, during the period
of their respective proprietorship. These claims were in all
stages of progress, from the merest permissive license to occupy,
to the perfected grant of a tract identified by surveys and welldefined boundaries.
Immediately upon taking possession of the country, Congress
legislated on the subject, and from that day to the act of June
10, 1872 (17 Stat. 378), the statute-books abound with laws
to enable the claimants to establish their rights.
To that end several commissions were organized. As they
expired by the terms of the law creating them, or by the time
limited for prosecuting claims, they were renewed or others
substituted., In most cases they were only empowered to hear
testimony and report it to Congress, with an opinion in favor
of or against each claim submitted. In other instances, the
courts were vested with jurisdiction to hear and decide, and
summary modes of procedure were authorized. In all this
matter, Congress, whether acting directly upon the cases
brought before it, or by statutes conferring authority on other
tribunals to adjudicate them, acted with a sincere desire to do
justice to those who, by the transfer of this large domain, were
remitted to our government for the recognition of their rights.
The treatment of these claimants has been governed by patience
in hearing and rehearing, by extension of time for presenting
claims, by affording repeated opportunities to establish them,
and by that careful regard for every equitable consideration
favorable to claimants, which merits the name of generosity
rather than strict justice. It was in this spirit that, after all
jurisdiction over the subject-matter had ceased to exist in any
other tribunal, Congress passed the act of 1860, and renewed
it for a short period in 1872.
But over half a century had passed since Congress first
created a tribunal to hear these claims. The system of congressional surveys had been extended over the ceded territory,
and in many instances the legal title to the claimed lands
within its limits had passed by government sales and patents to
innocent purchasers, who therefore held with that title the

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. CLAMIORGAN.

superior equity. In liberality, however, towards these dilatory
or unfortunate claimants, that act provided that, whenever a
claim was established under it to lands so sold by the United
States, the successful claimant might select an equal quantity
from any public lands subject to private sale. The latter in
many cases, indeed in far the greater numbef of them, vastly
exceeded in value those to which the claim had originally
attached.
While thus anxious to be both generous and just to this class
of claimants, it may well be supposed, in view of the period
which had elapsed during which they might have established
their claims, and the opportunities which had been given them
to do so, that Congress would impose such limitations on the
exercise of the right here granted as would protect the government against false and fraudulent claims, supported by forged
documents and perjured evidence, easily procured and difficult
of detection and refutation, by reason of the great lapse of
time and the death of those who were most cognizant of
the transaction. We, accordingly, find that, with regard to
the large body of these claims, Congress required that, after the
evidence had been sifted by the registers and receivers, and
reviewed by the Commissioner of the General Land-Office, the
final confirmation of them should remain with that body. As
we said, however, in Scull v. United States (supra), a much
more limited and well-defined class of claims might, at the
option of the claimants, be prosecuted in the District Court
of the United States, whose territorial jurisdiction included
the locus in quo of the lands. Over a suit thus brought, Congress retained no further control, and the judgment, subject to
an appeal here, was made conclusive. The claimants in the
present case have invoked this alternative, and they must fail
on this appeal, if their case does not come within the class
of which that court has jurisdiction, as defined in Congress.
There was excluded from confirmation under this act, either
by the courts or the favorable report of the officers of the
Land Department, any claim which had been theretofore presented for confirmation before any board of commissioners,
or other public officers acting under authority of Congress, and
rejected as being fraudulent, or procured or maintained by

UNITED STATES V. OLAMORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

fraudulent or improper means, or which previous boards had
already twice rejected on the merits.
But aside from this exclusion, the description of the class of
cases in which the District Court has jurisdiction to decree
confirmation is found in the eleventh section of the act, which
is copied and construed in the opinion in that case.
We again epitomize that construction: 1. The documents, surveys, possession, or other acts on which
claimant relies must have been completed during the period of
the actual possession of the government, prior to that of the
United States, under which the claim is asserted.
2. The claimant, or those under whom he holds, must have
been out of possession for twenty years or more before the suit
is commenced.
3. The claim must be sustained under a complete grant or
concession from such government; or order of survey duly executed; or by other mode of investiture of original title in the
claimants, by separation thereof from the mass of the public
domain, either by actual survey or definition of fixed, natural,
or ascertainable boundaries, or initial points, courses, and distances, by competent authority, prior to the cession of such
lands to the United States.
We also said in that case that the action under that statute
is substantially an action of ejectment in which the United
States consents to be a defendant and sued as if in possession
and the bar of the Statute of Limitations removed.
In the case before us neither the claimants nor any of their
predecessors in interest were ever in possession of the land.
There was no survey of it under the former government, nor
has any yet been made for the purpose of locating the grant.
There has never been any separation of it from the public
domain, nor any attempt to separate it.
Is there any such definition of fixed, natural, ascertainable,
boundaries, with courses and distances, in the supposed concession as will identify the land so as to make this separation?
As we have already said, no attempt has been made to make
an actual survey which would establish an answer to this question. A sufficient reason for this may be found in the following extract from the decree itself: -

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. OLAMORGAN.

"And the parties to the above suits having by stipulation
and agreement of record referred to the court six plans or maps
representzng different modes of locating said concession, . . .
and the quantities of land represented by said plans having
now been determined and reported to the court by a sworn
expert, . . .it is ordered and decreed that the plan marked
'I' truly represents the lands conceded to Jacques Clamorgan."
The quantity of land embraced in the largest of these plans
is estimated by this expert at 1,810,240 acres, and in the one
adopted by the court, at 94,136 acres; the former quantity
being nearly twenty times as much as the latter. The expert
testifies that the estimate is as accurate as can be made in the
absence of an actual survey in the field. And yet the claimants
who appeal to this court in order to get the largest of these
amounts did not even attempt to make an actual survey of the
concession, which, if they are correct, is occupied by a highly
civilized and thickly settled population, and there is no difficulty in making such survey other than what is found in the
descriptive language of the grant. It is reasonable to suppose
that that difficulty was known to be insurmountable, and this
is confirmed by the irreconcilable differences of the conjectural
plats, on which the government is to be calculated out of land
scrip worth over ,52,000,000. That the selection of one of these
plats, almost at hazard, is to be made the foundation of the
judgment of the court is directly opposed to the construction
which this court has given to the section of the act under which
it exercises this jurisdiction.
But if we examine the description afforded by this supposed
concession for ourselves, we must arrive at the same conclusion.
The only description is that found in Clamorgan's petition
asking Lieutenant-Governor Trudeau for the concession. The
two rivers therein mentioned, and the points where they respectively enter the Mississippi, are known or ascertainable.
So, also, it is clear there could be ascertained the points sixty
arpens above the mouth of the one, and as many below the
other. But the point mentioned as the top of the high hills
in the rear, in a westerly direction, is not known, and cannot
be ascertained from any evidence in this record.

UNITED STATES V. CLAMIORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

It is also clear from the plats presented to us that any two
lines drawn west or westerly from points on the Mississippi
Rtiver, sixty arpens north and south of the mouths of the Lacharette and Au Cuivre, parallel to each other, would cross one
or both of those rivers, and leave a large part of the land lying
between them out of the survey. Nor is any attempt made to
identify the high hills or two hundred arpens from the foot
of said hills, where the line shall be drawn which is to close
the survey by connecting the two lines first mentioned.
In short, without elaborating this matter as we did in Scull's
case, it is apparent that when Clamorgan presented his petition,
and undertook to describe the land which he sought to obtain,
he had no knowledge of the ascending course of the two streams
he mentioned, nor of the hills, if there were any, west of the
Mississippi, nor of any thing else probably but the bottom lands
adjoining that river.
If the survey which the Spanish manner of granting public
lands required, and which the order of Lieutenant-Governor
Trudeau required in this case, had been made, these mistakes
would have been corrected, and the final concession from Governor Carondelet, who alone could make such a grant, would,
either in that document or by reference to the executed survey,
have given a sufficient description. In Scull v. United States
there was an attempt to supply the want of an actual survey
by what the royal surveyor called "a figurative plan," and on
this Governor Carondelet issued the final grant.
But in'the present case there was neither an actual survey,
nor a figurative plan, nor a final concession. We have already
shown that the description in the petition of the original claimant is not such as to enable any one to identify the land or
make a definitive location of it.
That we do not attach more importance to this want of a
sufficient description of land granted than Congress intended,
may be seen by a reference to the third class of sect. 3 of
'the act, in which Congress directs the land-officers to include
"all claims which, in their opinion, ought to be rejected,
whether from defect of proof, suspicion of fraud based on probable ground, uncertainty of location, vagueness of description, or
any other cause sufficient in their opinion to justify such rejec-

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. CLAMORGAN.

tion." Obviously, even before this board, which was only to
report to Congress, uncertainty of location and vagueness of
description were held to be sufficient grounds for their rejection of the claim. Much more is it a good ground in a judicial
proceeding, under the limitations of the act which we have considered as binding the court.
Two other serious exceptions are taken to claimants' title to
recover.
It is said that there was no completed grant made by the
Spanish government; because Governor Carondelet, who alone
could make such a grant, has not done so.
It is certainly open to grave doubt whether the extract
from a letter of Carondelet to Trudeau, in which, among other
things, he expresses his approval of the motives of Trudeau in
making the order of survey in favor of Clamorgan, can be construed into an official act, which amounts to a grant, at a time
when no survey had been made, nor any reason given for not
making it.
So, also, the petition of the present claimants in the District
Court in this suit shows that this claim was before different
tribunals under the several acts on that subject, and was reported against in both instances, and that this was long ago.
Counsel for the government insist with much force of argument that the claim was thus "twice rejected on its merits,"
within the meaning of the statute under which we are now
proceeding. But we do not think it necessary to examine
either of these points critically, because we are satisfied that,
on the first ground we have discussed, the case comes within
Scull v. United States, and is not so well supported as that
was in the matter on which it was decided.
This renders unnecessary the consideration of the appeal of
the claimants.
The decree of the District Court will therefore be reversed,
and the case remanded with directions to dismiss the petition
on the merits; and it is
So ordered.

