Oct. 1879.]

LANGFORD V. UNITED STATES.

would be impaired by taking it away. What we do decide is
that no such remedy was given in this case.

Judgment affrmned.

M . JUSTICE SWAYNE and MR. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

LANGFORD v. UNITED STATES.
1. As applicable to the government or any of its officers, the maxim that the
king can do no wrong has no place in our system of constitutional law.
2. Qucrre, where lands which are confessedly private property are by the express
authority of the government taken for public use, can the just compensation
therefor which is guaranteed by the Constitution be recovered under existing laws in the Court of Claims .
8. That court has jurisdiction only in cases ex contractu, and an implied contract
to pay does not arise where the officer of the government, asserting its
ownership, commits a tort by taking forcible possession of the lands of an
individual for public use.
4. The provision restricting that jurisdiction to contracts express or implied
refers to the well-understood distinction between matters ex eontractu and
those ex ddicto, and is founded on the principle, that while Congress is
willing to subject the government to suits on contracts, which can be valid
only when made by some one thereunto vested with authority, or when under
such authority something is by him done which raises an implied contract,
that body did not intend to make the government liable to suit for the
wrongful and unauthorized acts which are committed by its officers, under
a mistaken zeal for the public good.
5. If, under claim that they belong to the government, an officer seizes for the
use of an Indian agency buildings owned by a private citizen, no implied
obligation of the United States to pay for the use and occupation of them
is thereby raised.

APPEA, from the Court of Claims.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
M3r. ,Benjamin P. Butler and Mr. Thomas Wilson for the
appellant.
The Attorney- General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the plaintiff against the United
States to recover for the use and occupation of certain lands

LANGFORD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

and buildings. The judgment of the Court of Claims was rendered against him, and he appealed here.
The first question arising in this case concerns the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims upon the suggestion of the
Attorney-General that the claim is not founded on contract,
either express or implied. That court could have no cognizance of the case on any other ground, according to the express
language of the statute defining its jurisdiction. Rev. Stat.,
sect. 1059.
The findings of the court leave no doubt that the Indian
agents acting for the United States, and without the consent
of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions,
took possession of the buildings which that board had erected
upon the lands, and have since retained them by force and
against its will or that of Langford, who claims title under
it. The United States always asserted that their possession
was by virtue of their own title, which was hostile to that of
the claimant. The military of the United States was at one
time ordered to protect by force the occupation of the agents.
Conceding that the title, or even the right to the possession
of the premises, was in claimant, it would seem that the facts
above stated show that the act of the United States in taking
and holding that possession was an unequivocal tort, if the
government can be capable of committing one, and that if the
case were between individuals every implication of a contract
would be repelled.
Counsel for claimant, admitting this to be true, makes a very
ingenious argument to prove that the government, in taking
and using the property of an individual against his consent,
and by force, cannot be guilty of a tort, because the nature of
the relation of the government to its citizens, and the provisions
of the Constitution, create an implied obligation to pay for
property, or for the use of property, so taken. The argument
rests on two distinct propositions: 1. That the maxim of English constitutional law, that the king can do no wrong, is one
which the courts must apply to the government of the United
States, and that therefore there can be no tort committed by the
government. 2. That by virtue of the constitutional provision
that private property shall not be taken for public use, without

Oct. 1879.]

LANGFORD V.UNITED STATES.

just compensation, there arises in all cases where such property
is so taken an implied obligation to pay for it.
It is not easy to see how the first proposition can have any
place in our system of government.
We have no king to whom it can be applied. The President, in the exercise of the executive functions, bears a nearer
resemblance to the limited monarch of the English government
than any other branch of our government, and is the only individual to whom it could possibly have any relation. It cannot apply to him, because the Constitution admits that he may
do wrong, and has provided, by the proceeding of impeachment,
for his trial for wrong-doing, and his removal from office if
found guilty. None of the eminent counsel who defended
President Johnson on his impeachment trial asserted that by
law he was incapable of doing wrong, or that, if done, it could
not, as in the case of the king, be imputed to him, but must be
laid to the charge of the ministers who advised him.
It is to be observed that the English maxim does not declare
that the government, or those who administer it, can do no
wrong; for it is a part of the principle itself that wrong may
be done by the governing power, for which the ministry, for
the time being, is held responsible; and the ministers personally, like our President, may be impeached; or, if the wrong
amounts to a crime, they may be indicted and tried at law for
the offence.
We do not understand that either in reference to the government of the United States, or of the several States, or of any
of their officers, the English maxim has an existence in this
country.
The other point is one which requires more delicate handling.
We are not prepared to deny that when the government of
the United States, by such formal proceedings as are necessary
to bind it, takes for public use, as for an arsenal, custom-house,
or fort, land to which it asserts no claim of title, but admits the
ownership to be private or individual, there arises an implied
obligation to pay the owner its just value.
It is to be regretted that Congress has made no provision by
any general law for ascertaining and paying this just compensation. And we are not called on to decide that when the

LANGFORD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

government, acting by the forms which are sufficient to bind
it, recognizes the fact that it is taking private property for public
use, the compensation may not be recovered in the Court of
Claims. On this point we decide nothing.
What is pertinent to the present case is that, conceding that
principle, it does not confer on that court the authority to decide that the United States, in asserting the right to use its own
property, is using that of an individual, and in taking possession of such property under claim of title, and retaining it by
force against an opposing claimant, has -ome under an implied
contract to pay him for the use of the property. In the first case,
the government admits the title of the individual and his right
to compensation. This right to compensation follows from the
two propositions, that it was private property and was taken
for public use, neither of which is disputed.
It is a very different matter where the government claims
that it is dealing with its own, and recognizes no title superior
to its own. In such case the government, or the officers who
seize such property, are guilty of a tort, if it be in fact private
property. No implied contract to pay can arise any more than
in the case of such a transaction between individuals. It is
conceded that no contract for use and occupation would, in that'
case, be implied.
Congress, in establishing a court in which the United States
may primarily be sued as defendants, proceeded slowly and
with great caution. As at first organized, the Court of Claims
was merely an auditing board, authorized to pass upon claims
submitted to it, and report to the Secretary. of the Treasury.
He submitted to Congress such confirmed claims as he approved,
with an estimate for their insertion in the proper appropriation
bill. Such as he disapproved demanded no further action.
It was by reason of that feature of the law that this court
refused to exercise the appellate jurisdiction over awards of that
court which the act of Congress attempted to confer, because
the court was of opinion that the so-called Court of Claims
was not, in the constitutional sense, a court which could render
valid judgments, and because there could be no appeal from
the Supreme Court to the Secretary of the Treasury. Gordon
v. United States, 2 Wall. 561. An act of Congress removing

Oct. 1879.]

LANGFORD V. UNITED STATES.

this objectionable feature having passed the year after that
decision, the appellate power of this court has been exercised
ever since. The jurisdiction of that court has received frequent
additions by the reference of cases to it under special statutes,
and by other changes in the general law; but the principle
originally adopted, of limiting its general jurisdiction to cases
of contract, remains. There can be no reasonable doubt that
this limitation to cases of contract, express or implied, was
established in reference to the distinction between actions arising out of contracts, as distinguished from those founded on
torts, which is inherent in the essential nature of judicial remedies under all systems, and especially under the system of the
common law.
The reason for this restriction is very obvious on a moment's
reflection. While Congress might be willing to subject the
government to the judicial enforcement of valid contracts,
which could only be valid as against the United States when
made by some officer of the government acting under lawful
authority, with power vested in him to make such contracts,
or to do acts which implied them, the very essence of a tort is
that it is an unlawful act, done in violation of the legal rights
of some one. For such acts, however high the position of the
officer or agent of the government who did or commanded them,
Congress did not intend to subject the government to the results
of a suit in that court. This policy is founded in wisdom, and
is clearly expressed in the act defining the jurisdiction of the
court; and it would ill become us to fritter away the distinction
between actions ex delicto and actions ex contractu,which is well
understood in our system of jurisprudence, and thereby subject
the government to payment of damages for all the wrongs committed by its officers or agents, under a mistaken zeal, or actuated by less worthy motives.
The question is not a new one in this court.
In AioI8ls v. United State8 (7 Wall. 122), where a suit was
brought in the Court of Claims to recover back money exacted
of an importer in excess of the duties allowed by law, the court
held that no contract to refund was implied, because the money,
though paid under protest, was paid voluntarily, and for this
reason, among others, that court had no jurisdiction.

LANGFORD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

In Gibbons v. United States (8 id. 269), an army contractor,
who had agreed to furnish two hundred thousand bushels of oats
at a fixed price, had, as this court held, after delivering part of
the amount, been legally released from the obligation to deliver
the balance. He was, however, carried before- the military
authority in a state of fear and trepidation, and to save himself
further trouble agreed to and did deliver the remainder of the
oats. He sued in the Court of Claims for the difference between
the contract price and the market price of the oats at the time
of the delivery. One ground of his claim was that he acted
under duress and the constraint of fear, and that his agreement
to deliver at the contract price was void.
This court said, in answer to this argument, that "it is not
to be disguised that this case is an attempt, under the assumption of an implied contract, to make the government responsible for the unauthorized acts of its officers, those acts being
in themselves torts. .

.

. The language of the statutes which

confer jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims excludes, by the
strongest implication, demands against the government founded
on torts. The general principle which we have already stated
as applicable to all governments, forbids, on a policy imposed
by necessity, that they should hold themselves liable for unauthorized wrongs inflicted by their officers on the citizen, though
occurring while engaged in the discharge of official duties....
These reflections admonish us to be cautious that we do not
permit the decision of this court to become authority for righting in the Court of Claims all wrongs done to individuals by
the officers of the general government, though they have been
committed while serving the government and in the belief that
it was for its interest. In such cases, where it is proper for
the nation to furnish a remedy, Congress has wisely reserved
the matter for its own determination."
With the reaffirmation of this doctrine, which excludes the
present case from the jurisdiction of that court, its judgment
dismissing the petition of plaintiff is
Affirmed.

