Oct. 1879.]

PEOPLE'S BANK

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

ease remanded with instructions to enter judgment in favor of
the plaintiff for the amount of the penalties exacted from the
plaintiff and Henrietta H. Wright, with interest and costs;
and it is
So ordered.

PEoPLE's BA&ix v. NATioxAL BA~x.
A. made his promissory note to his own order, duly indorsed it to the order of
B., and delivered it to a national bank. The latter negotiated it to B., and
applied the proceeds thereof to the cancellation of a prior debt of A. With
the knowledge and consent of the president and cashier, who were also directors, but without any notice to or authority from the board, C., one of the
directors and vice-president of the bank, guaranteed, at the time of the transaction, the payment of the note at maturity by an indorsement thereon to
that effect in the name and on behalf of the bank. The note was duly protested for non-payment, and the bank notified thereof. B. brought this action
against the bank. Held, 1. That the bank was not prohibited by law from
guaranteeing the payment of the note. 2. That it is to be presumed that C.
bad rightfully the power lie assumed to exercise, and the bank is estopped to
deny it. 3. That the bank by its retention and enjoyment of the proceeds
of the note, rendered the act of C. as binding as if it had been .xpressly
authorized.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERO

Mr. (Jkarles W. Ihoma8 for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was submitted to the court without the intervention of a jury. The court found the facts and gave judgment
for the defendant. The plaintiff thereupon sued out this writ
of error and brought the case here for review. The act of
Congress regulating the procedure adopted seems to have been
carefully complied with.
The People's Bank of Belleville, plaintiff, and the Manufacturers' National Bank of Chicago, defendant, in the court below,
are respectively the plaintiff and the defendant in error here.

PEOPLE'S BANK V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

For convenience, we shall speak of them in this opinion by
their former designations.
The facts lie within a narrow compass, and there is no controversy about any of them.
On the 8th of August, 1873, Henry E. Picket made his ten
promissory notes of that date, each for $5,000, all payable one
year from date to his own order, indorsed by him, and bearing
interest at the rate of ten per cent, payable semi-annually.
Eight of these notes are described in the plaintiff's declaration.
Picket delivered the notes to the defendant to be negotiated to
the plaintiff, pursuant to a prior agreement between him and
the defendant, that the latter should so negotiate the notes and
apply the proceeds to the cancellation of other indebtedness
then due from him to the defendant. On the 8th of August,
1873, M. D. Buchanan, vice-president, and one of the directors
of the defendant, with the knowledge and consent of the president and cashier of the defendant who were also directors, but
without any authority from the board of directors as a board,
or of a majority of them individually, or any notification to
the board of directors as a board, transmitted the notes to
the plaintiff with a letter, in which occurs the following language: "In accordance with your telegram I herewith hand
you ten notes of $5,000 each, &c. . . . We debit your account $50,000. . . . This bank hereby guarantees the lpayment
of the principal sum and interest of said notes." This letter
was written below one of defendant's letter-heads, and signed
"M. D, Buchanan, vice-president." The notes were also indorsed, "Pay to the order of the People's Bank of Belleville.
Henry E. Picket;" and below, " This bank hereby guarantees
the payment of this note, principal and interest, at maturity.
M. D. Buchanan, Vice-President Manufacturers' National Bank
of Chicago." The defendant was the plaintiff's correspondent
at Chicago, and the plaintiff's account with the defendant was
debited with $50,000 on account of the notes. At the same
time, Picket's paper in the defendant's, hands was cancelled to
the same amount. All the notes were protested at maturity
for non-payment, and due notice was given to the defendant.
Nothing has been paid on either of the notes. Besides a
special count in the declaration upon the guaranty of each of

Oct. 1879.]

PEOPLE'S BANK V. NATIONAL BANK.

the eight notes involved in this suit, there was a common count
for money had and received.
The case was submitted in this court without an oral argument. The opinion of the learned judge who decided the case
in the Circuit Court is not in the record, and no brief has been
submitted on behalf of the defendant. A few remarks will
suffice to give our view of the law touching the rights of the
parties.
The National Banking Act (Rev. Stat. 999, sect. 5136) gives
to every bank created under it the right "to exercise by its
board of directors, or duly authorized agents, all such incidental
powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking, by discounting and negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills
of exchange, and other evidences of debt, by receiving deposits,"
&c. Nothing in the act explains or qualifies the terms italicised. To hand over with an indorsement and guaranty is one
of the commonest modes of transferring the securities named.
Undoubtedly a bank might indorse, "waiving demand and
notice," and would be bound accordingly. A guaranty is a
less onerous and stringent contract than that created by such
an indorsement. We see no reason to doubt that, under the
circumstances of this case, it was competent for the defendant
to give the guaranty here in question. It is to be presumed the
vice-president had rightfully the power he assumed to exercise,
and the defendant is estopped to deny it. Where one of two
innocent parties must suffer by the wrongful act of a third, he
who gave the power to do the wrong must bear the burden of
the consequences.
The doctrine of ultra vires has no application in cases like
this. Mierchants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604.
All the parties engaged in the transaction and the privies
were agents of the defendant. If there were any defect of
authority on their part, the retention and enjoyment of the
proceeds of the transaction by their principal constituted an
acquiescence as effectual as would have been the most formal
authorization in advance, or the most formal ratification afterwards. These facts conclude the defendant from resisting the
demand of the plaintiff. Wharton, Agency, sect. 89; Bigelow, Estoppel, 423; Railroad Company v. Howard, 7 Wall.

AYERS V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

892; .Kelsey v. "The National Bank of Crawford County, 69
Pa. St. 426; Steamboat Company v. McCutchen . Collins, 13
id. 13.
A different result would be a reproach to our jurisprudence.
Whether, if the guaranty were void, the fund received by
the defendant as its consideration moving from the plaintiff
could be recovered back in this action upon the common count,
is a point which we do not find it necessary to consider. See
United States v. State Ban7, 96 U. S. 33.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
case will be remanded with directions to enter a judgment in
favor of the plaintiff in error; and it is
So ordered.

AYERS v. CHICAGO.
1. The order of the Circuit Court remanding a cause to the State court whence
it was removed is reviewable here.
2. Reemoval Cases (100 U. S. 457) cited and approved.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Melville W. Puller for the appellant.
Mr. V. 0. aoudy, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
On the 27th o'f December, 1873, David A. Gage and Eliza
M., his wife, citizens of Illinois, conveyed to George Taylor,
also a citizen of Illinois, a large quantity of real estate in Cook
County, Illinois, in trust to secure the city of Chicago, an Illinois municipal corporation, against loss by reason of the indebtedness of Gage as treasurer of the city. The trustee was
authorized to take possession of and nianage the properby, collect the income, pay taxes, &c., and, under the direction and
-with the concurrence of the comptroller of the city, sell and

