Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE RAILWAY Co.

interrogatory as asking information respecting attendance for
a particular disease or diseases and their description, especially
as the thirteenth interrogatory sought information respecting
the party's usual medical attendant, and the name of that
attendant was truly given.
Upon the whole, therefore, we think the case should have
been submitted to the jury on the evidence.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remitted for a new trial.

Ex PARTE RAILWAY COMPANY.
1. This court will not by mandamus revise the action of inferior courts acting
within the scope of their authority touching any matter about which they
must exercise their judicial discretion.
2. A petition was presented for a mandamus to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado in the matter of the proceedings had
subsequently to its receipt of the mandate ordered in Railway Company v.
Alling, 99 U. S. 463. They are mentioned infra, pp. 715-717. Held, that
the case is not one which calls for interposition by mandamus.

PETITION for mandamus.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Roscoe Conkling and Mr. Samuel
Siellabargerfor the petitioner, and by Mr. Sidney Bartlett and
Mr. George 0. Shattuck, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an application, by petition, for a writ of mandamus
to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado, commanding them to proceed and give
final decree, in accordance with the opinion and mandate of
this court, in the suit of the Cation City and San Juan Railroad
Company against the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company. The history of this litigation is set forth in Railway
Comnpany v. Alling (99 U. S. 463), to which reference is here
made. The present application is supported by an exemplified
copy of the proceedings had in the Circuit Court at its May

EX PARTE RAILWAY 0O.

[Sup. Ct.

Term, 1879, after the filing therein of the opinion and mandate
of this court.
The main contention of the Denver and Rio Grande Railway
Company was that the court below had failed and refused to
comply with the mandate of this court; that, upon filing the
mandate, that company became entitled absolutely, and beyond
the discretion of the Circuit Court, to a decree restoring it, at
once and unconditionally, to the possession of the Grand Caion
of the Arkansas River; dissolving the injunction granted
against it in that suit; adjudging that it had the prior right
to occupy and use that caion for the purpose of constructing
its railroad therein; and requiring the Caion City and San
Juan Railway Company, its officers, agents, servants, and employds, to refrain from interfering with or obstructing the Denver and Rio Grande Company in such occupancy and use of
the caion, or in the construction of its railroad in and through
the same.
It is essential to a proper understanding of the present application to recall some of the leading facts in this litigation.
The controversy between these two companies arose out of
their respective claims to occupy and use the Grand or Big
Cailon of the Arkansas River for railroad purposes. The Circuit Court, upon the original hearing, held the prior right and
location to be with the Cation City Company, with liberty,
however, to the Denver Company to exhibit its bill in any
court of competent jurisdiction to compel the former company
to so locate and construct its road as to permit the convenient
and proper location by the Denver Company of its road, or, if
two roads could not be conveniently constructed and operated
in the caion, to occupy the track and roadway of the Carion
City Company. While the causes were under submission in
this court at its last term, it was represented that, after the
rendition of the decree in favor of the Catlon City Company,
the parties and corporations concerned had entered into binding agreements, whereby the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6
Railroad Company, in its own right, and in connection with the
Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company (the successor
of the Caion City Company), had become and was equitably
the owner of all the property, rights, and interests of the Den-

Oct. 1879.]

Ex PARTE RAILWAY CO.

ver Company, and entitled to the control of its affairs, business,
and suits of every kind. Upon that ground, the Pueblo Company moved that the submission be set aside, and the appeals
dismissed, while the Atchison Company moved that it have
permission to intervene in this court, and, by its solicitor, consent to such dismissal.
These motions were denied, for the reasons given in the
former opinion. It was there said, that if the directors of the
Denver Company, in prosecuting the appeals to final judgment,
violated any trust committed to their hands, or any agreement
which was binding upon the corporation and the minority
stockholders, remedy might be sought "in some court of original jurisdiction, into which, upon proper pleadings, all persons
interested may be summoned." The court also said: "If, since
those decrees were entered, the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa
F6 Railroad Company, or the Pueblo and Arkansas Valley
Railroad Company have, by valid contracts, acquired a controlling interest in the property, rights, and affairs of the Denver
Company, that interest can be asserted by appropriate proceedings, and will not be affected by any thing we may determine
upon the issues presented by these appeals."
Upon the merits of the cases it was held That the intention of Congress by the act of 1872 was to
grant to the Denver Company a present beneficial easement in
the particular way over which its designated routes lay, capable, however, of enjoyment only when the way granted was
actually located, and, in good faith, appropriated for the purposes contemplated by the company's charter and the act of
Congress;
That when such location and appropriation were made, the
title, which was previously imperfect, acquired precision, and
by relation took effect as of the date of the grant;
That the Denver Company, by its occupancy of the Grand
Carion on 19th April, 1878, for the purpose of constructing
its road through that defile, came then, if not before, into the
enjoyment of the present beneficial easement conferred by the
act of Congress of June 8, 1872, and was entitled to have
secured, against all intruders whatever, the privileges or advantages which belonged to that position;

714-

EX PARTE RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

That such right was, however, subject to the provisions of
the act of March 3, 1876, whereby it was declared, in the interest of the public, that any other railroad company, duly organized, might use and occupy the caion for the purposes of its
road, in common with the road first located.
The opinion concluded as follows: "It results from what we have said, that the court below
erred in enjoining the Denver Company from proceeding with
the construction of its road in the Grand Cation. The decree,
as entered, can only be sustained upon the assumption that the
Catron City Company had by prior occupancy acquired a right
superior to any which the Denver and Rio Grande Railway
Company had to use the caion for the purpose of constructing
its road. But that assumption, we have seen, is not sustained
by the evidence, and is inconsistent with the rights given by
the acts of Congress to the Denver Company. The Denver
Company should have been allowed to proceed with the construction of its road unobstructed by the other company.
Where the Grand Cation is broad enough to enable both companies to proceed without interference with each other in the
construction of their respective roads, they should be allowed
to do so. But in the narrow portions of the defile, where this
course is impracticable, the court, by proper orders, should
recognize the prior right of the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company to construct its road. Further, if in any portion
of the Grand Carion it is impracticable or impossible to lay
down more than one road-bed and track, the court, while recognizing the prior right of the Denver Company to construct
and operate that tract for its own business, should, by proper
orders, and upon such terms as may be just and equitable,
establish and secure the right of the Caion City Company,
conferred by the act of March 3, 1875, to use the same roadbed and track, after completion, in common with the Denver
Company.
"The decrees in these causes are, therefore, reversed, with
directions to set aside the order granting an injunction against
the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company, and also the
order dissolving the injunction granted in its favor, and dismissing its bill. By proper orders, entered in each suit, the

Oct. 187-9.]

EX PARTE RAILWAY CO.

court below will recognize the prior right of that company to
occupy and use the Grand Callon for the purpose of constructing its road therein, and will enjoin the Cation City and San
Juan Railway Company, its officers, agents, servants, and employds, from interfering with or obstructing that company in
such occupancy, use, and construction. It may be that, during
the pendency of these causes in the court below, or since the
rendition of the decrees appealed from, the Calon City and San
Juan Railway Company has, under the authority of the Circuit
Court, constructed its road-bed and track in the Grand Caion,
or in some portion thereof. In that event, the cost thus incurred in those portions of the cation which admit of only one
road-bed and track for railroad purposes, may be ascertained
and provided for in such manner and upon such terms and
conditions as the equities of the parties may require.
"The court will make such further orders as may be necessary to give effect to this opinion."
It appears from the transcript of the proceedings had in the
court below, after the return of the causes, that the Pueblo and
Arkansas Valley Railroad Company was permitted, against the
objection of the Denver Company, to file supplemental bills,
showing that it was the successor of the Caion City Company,
and setting out in detail, among other things, the same facts
substantially that were relied upon in this court in support of
the motions made at the last term to set aside the submission
and dismiss the appeals. The prayer of the first supplemental
bill was that those facts might be considered, and that upon
the hearing the original decrees might be permitted to stand
without modification or change.
An order was entered in the Circuit Court, on the 14th of
July, 1879, in which, after reciting the mandate of this court,
and the reversal of the original decree of July, 1878, it was
declared that the said decree theretofore given and allowed "be
vacated and set aside," with costs to the Denver Company to
the date of the filing of the mandate.
It was also adjudged that the right of the Denver Company
"to first locate and construct its railway upon the way mentioned and described in the bill of complaint herein, as against
the Cailon City and San Juan Railway Company and the Pueblo

716

Ex PARTE RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company, and as of the date of
the commencement of this suit, and the date of said decree, is
recognized and established."
The decree proceeds: "Forasmuch, however, as it is alleged by the said plaintiff
[the Carion City and San Juan Railway Company], in certain
supplemental bills by it filed herein, that since the said decree
the said defendant [the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company] hath granted, sold, or otherwise yielded to the said plaintiff its right of way in the premises; and forasmuch as it is also
alleged by the said plaintiff that since the said decree the said
plaintiff hath built wholly or in part upon the said way, and
upon the line heretofore located by the said defendant, a railway of such gauge and structure as the said 'defendant hath
proposed to build, for which, as to the whole or some part
thereof, the said defendant ought in equity and good conscience
to pay the reasonable value, and because the value of said railway is at present unknown to the court, no further decree touching the ultimate right of the parties can be given or allowed
until the court shall be better advised in the matters aforesaid.
"And it is considered by the court that the relations of the
parties of and concerning the line of railway heretofore constructed, or now in process of construction as aforesaid, ought
not to suffer any change pending such inquiry touching the
facts upon which the further and final judgment and decree of
the court will be given; therefore, let each of the parties be
enjoined and restrained from doing any act or thing towards
building and completing the said line of railway until the further
order of the court. Nor shall either of the said parties interfere
with the present possession of the other in the said line of railway, but each shall remain in the possession of that part which
it now holds until the further order of the court. And of this
order the parties shall take notice without writ or further service. But if either of the said parties shall desire to construct
another line of railway on the same right of way, without interfering with the grade or road-bed constructed by the said plaintiff or the Caion City and San Juan Railway Company, it shall
be at liberty to do so."

Oct. 1879.]

EX PARTE RAILWAY CO.

The order then provided for the appointment of three engineers, - one to be nominated by each of the parties, and one to
be selected by the court, - who were required to ascertain and
report to the court to what extent, in the construction of two
roads from Caion City to the twentieth mile post, must the two
companies occupy the same track; whether the Grand Carion
of the Arkansas was broad enough to enable both companies to
proceed without interference with each other in their respective
roads, or if one be already constructed, then whether such constructea line will interfere with or render impracticable the
construction of a second line; whether in the narrow portions
of the caion there is any place where such a course was impracticable, and if so, whether any road-bed or railroad has been
constructed in such place or places, and the cost and reasonable
value of same; whether, if two roads shall be built on the Arkansas River from Caion City to the twentieth mile post, to
whatextent should they be located on opposite sides of the river,
and the relative cost thereof; what has been done by the Caion
City Company or the Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad
Company towards constructing a railroad from Cation City to
the twentieth mile post, and what is its value and its location,
with reference to the Arkansas, its defiles and caions, and what
part of the line so constructed is on the public domain, what
part on lands owned by individuals or corporations, and what is
the value of each part separately.
Upon a subsequent day of the same term the Denver Company, by petition, suggested that the decree rendered was not
full and complete, and that the court had not awarded all the
relief to which it was entitled under the opinion and mandate
of this court. The Circuit Court, however, held that further
and final decree should be deferred until the matters set forth
in the decree of July 14, 1879, were determined.
Thus stood the case, in its essential features, when the petition for mandamus was filed in this court. Subsequently, the
atteition of the court was called to the final decree rendered in
the Circuit Court in January, 1880.
After a careful consideration of all that has been said in support of the present application, we are of opinion that a mandamus should be denied. Our former opinion discloses the fact

718

Ex PARTE RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Ct.

that many matters growing out of this litigation were necessarily left undisposed of, and were remitted to the Circuit Court
for such determination as the rights and equities of the parties
required under the circumstances existing at the time its action
was invoked. We took care to say that nothing determined
upon the issues presented upon the original appeals would affect
the question as to whether the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F4
Railroad Company, or the Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company, had, subsequently to the decree of July, 1878,
become, by valid contract, the owner of the property, or entitled
to the control of the rights, affairs, and suits of the Denver
Company. That question, in distinct terms, was left open for
subsequent adjudication, in a court of original jurisdiction, upon
proper pleadings and by appropriate proceedings. We expressly
limited our decision to a determination of the rights of the parties as they existed when the decrees of July, 1878, were rendered, and as manifested in the records then before us. Whether,
therefore, the supplemental bills, filed upon the return of the
causes, raised, in proper form, the question as to the right of
the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6 Railroad Company, or the
Pueblo and Arkansas Valley Railroad Company, under the
alleged contracts made with the Denver Company subsequently
to the decrees of July, 1878, to control the pending suits so far
as they affected the interests of the latter company, -whether
the Denver Company, in consequence of said alleged contracts,
had lost or waived the right, improperly denied to it by the
decree of July, 1878, of occupying the Grand Caton for the
purpose of constructing its road, -were
matters about which
the Circuit Court was at liberty, and was bound to exercise its
judicial discretion.
It is contended that the Circuit Court plainly disobeyed our
mandate when declining to make such orders as would place the
Denver Company, upon the filing of the mandate, in the actual
occupancy or possession of the Grand Caion, without reference
to, or without awaiting the determination of, the claim which
the Carion City Company, or its successor, had on account of
money expended in the construction of its road in the Grand
Caron, or in that portion of it which admitted of but one roadbed or track. It is true that we said- referring necessarily to

Oct. 1879.]

Ex PA TE RAmTwiY Co.

the rights of parties as they existed at the date of the decree of
July, 1878 - that the Circuit Court erred in enjoining the
Denver Company from constructing its road in the Grand
Caion; and that that company should have been allowed to
proceed without obstruction from or interference by the latter
company. We, therefore, directed, among other things, that
the order granting the injunction should be set aside, and that,
by proper orders, the prior right of the Denver Company to
occupy and use the caion be recognized. These directions were
substantially complied with. The prior right of the Denver
Company to locate and construct its railway in the caion was
expressly recognized and established by the order of July 14,
1879. It is true that the injunction was not, in terms, dissolved,
but the final decree of July, 1878, upon which its efficacy depended, was expressly vacated and set aside. The injunction
necessarily fell with the decree. The foundation upon which
it rested was destroyed when the decree was annulled. Had
our directions gone no farther than to dissolve the injunction
against, and to recognize the prior right of, the Denver Company, the present application would rest upon stronger grounds
than it does. We could not, however, ignore the fact that,
possibly, during the pendency of these causes in the court below,
or subsequently to the decree of July, 1878, the Calon City
Company, or its successor, had, under the authority or sanction
of the court, expended money in the construction of its roadbed and track in some portions of the Grand Caion. "In that
event," we said, "the cost thus incurred in those portions of
the caion which admit of only one road-bed and track for railroad purposes may be ascertained and provided for in such
manner and upon such terms and conditions as the equities of
the parties may require." We gave no direction as to the mode
in which such cost should be ascertained, or as to the terms and
conditions to be imposed in any provision made for it. Those
matters were left for the determination of the court below,
according to the principles of equity.
It was undoubtedly competent for that court, in the exercise
of its judicial discretion, to have put the Denver Company, upon
the filing of the mandate, into immediate possession of the Grand
Cafion, including the road-bed and track which the Callon City

EX PARTE RAILWAY CO.

[Sup. Oh.

Company had constructed in the narrow portions of that defile.
But the propriety of orders to that effect would have depended
upon the equities of the parties as they existed at the time the
action of- the court, in that direction, was sought. It was not
in violation of our mandate that the Circuit Court, after setting
aside and vacating the decree of July, 1878, and recognizing
the prior right of the Denver Company, should suspend further
action as to the ultimate rights of the parties until the matters
set out in the supplemental bill, and recited in the decree of
July 14, 1879, were inquired into.
We recognize, in its fullest extent, the power of this court,
by mandamus, to enforce prompt compliance with its mandates;
but it is not consistent with the principles and usages of law
that we should, in that summary mode, revise the action of inferior courts, as to any matters about which they must or may
exercise judicial discretion. "The writ has never been extended
so far, nor ever used to control the discretion and judgment of
an inferior court of record acting within the scope of its judicial
authority." .Ex parte Taylor, 14 How. 3; Ex parte Many, id.
24; United States v. Lawrence, 3 Dall. 42; Life and Fire Insurance Company of New York v. Wilson's Hfeirs, 8 Pet. 291;
Bx parte Hoyt, 13 id. 279 ; .x parte Myra Clarke Whitney, id.
404; Ex parte Newman, 14 Wall. 152. The remedy for any
errors committed by the Circuit Court, either in the decree of
July 14, 1879, or in the final decree of January, 1880, is by
appeal to this court. We therefore forbear, at this time, any
expression of opinion as to the existence or non-existence of
errors in those decrees, to the prejudice of either party. We
decide nothing more, upon the present application, than that
this is not a case which, in our judgment, calls for interposition
by a writ of mandamus.
One of the reasons assigned in oral argument why the application for mandamus should be favorably considered, is that by
the act of Congress of March 3, 1877, amending the act of June
2, 1872, the time within which the Denver and Rio Grande
Railroad Company must complete its road as far south as Santa
F6, will expire on June 2, 1882; in default whereof, it will
forfeit, as to the unfinished portion of the road, the rights and
privileges granted by the act of 1872. The time limited, it is

Oct. 1879.]

PHILLIPS V. GILBERT.

urged, will expire before an appeal from the final decree of Jan.
2, 1880, can be reached upon the docket of this court in the
usual course of its business.
We recognize the force of this suggestion, and feel it to be
our duty, under the circumstances, to afford the parties an
opportunity to secure an early and final determination of their
respective rights in the premises. To that end, upon an appeal
being perfected, and upon the filing in this court of a transcript
of the record, we will hear a motion to advance this cause for
consideration at the present term.
Mandamus denied.
AIR. JUSTICE SwAYNE, M.R. JUSTICE FIELD, and MIR. JusTIOE BRADLEY

dissented.

Mi. JUSTICE FIELD. I dissent from the order of the court
denying the mandamus prayed. When the Circuit Court dissolved the injunction restraining the Denver Company from
taking possession of the Grand Caion, there was only a seeming compliance with our mandate, for soon afterwards the court
restored the injunction, thus practically defeating our judgment.
But as the court has decided to advance the hearing of the
appeal from the final decree entered in the court below, on
application of the appellants, I will refrain from further comment until that appeal is heard.

PHILLEPS v. GmBERT.
1. A mechanic, pursuant to his contract with the owner of certain lots in the city
of Washington, erected a row of buildings upon them. Held, that he did
not lose his lien because his notice claimed it upon the property as an
entirety, without specifically setting forth the amount claimed upon each
building.
2. Where a bill is filed to enforce the lien, and the latter is discharged by the
owner's written undertaking, with surety approved by the court, that he will
pay the amount recovered with costs,-Held, that the decree in personam
for time amount due the mechanic can be taken only against the owner.
3. The remedy of the mechanic against the surety is by an action at law upon
the undertaking.
VOL. xI.

46

