Oct. 1879.]

SILLIMAN V. UNITED STATES.

SILLMIAN V. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES V. SILLnIL-!r.
A., the owner of certain barges, executed charter-parties of them to the United
States for a stipulated sum per month so long as they should be retained in
the service. After they had been for some time used, he was informed by
the Quartermaster-General that lie must execute a new charter-party specifying a reduced compensation. A. declined to comply, and made a demand for
them, which was refused. On learning the intention of that officer to retain
possession of them and withold all compensation, A. executed the required
charter-party, stating at the time that he did so under protest and by reason
of the pressure of financial necessity. He thereafter, from time to time, received, without protest or objection, payment according to the diminished
rate, and then brought suit against the United States for the difference between
it and the original rate, upon the ground that the last charter-party was executed under such circumstances as amounted in law to duress. Held, that A.
is not entitled to recover.

from the Court of Claims.
The case as set forth in the findings of fact is this :
In 1863, claimants were partners in trade, doing business in
the city of New York, under the firm style of Silliman, Matthews, & Co. At various times they executed with the United
States (the latter represented by Major Van Vliet of the quartermaster's department) several charter-parties for barges of
which they were owners. The barges were delivered to the
quartermaster's department, and remained in service during the
periods respectively set forth in the petition. The claimants
were paid at the charter rates up to and including the 31st of
October, 1863.
On the 2d of June, 1863, the Quartermaster-General, by
letter, instructed Quartermaster Van Vliet that all doubledecked barges then in service and used for transporting cattle,
horses, &c., should, from and after the 1st of that month, be
made to conform to a standard of compensation at rates not to
exceed four dollars per ton per month.
The owners of the barges, being notified by Major Van Vliet
of the Quartermaster-General's instructions, replied that their
barges were only measured as single-deck, and that the rate
APPEALS

voL. Xi.

30

SILLIMAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of four dollars per ton per month would not pay them unless
they were allowed to measure the upper deck also, and that
rather than accept the reduction they preferred to have their
boats discharged.
This reply of the claimants having been communicated to
the Quartermaster-General, he directed Major Van Vliet to
discharge the barges from service as rapidly as he could procure others upon the terms just stated, and under a new
form of charter-party prescribed by the Quartermaster-General.
In reply to this direction Major Van Vliet, on the 22d of
July, 1868, informed the Quartermaster-General that it was
impossible to obtain barges at New York at the rates indicated
by the latter, taking the registered tonnage as the standard of
measurement, which represented only their hold-measurement,
and not their actual carrying capacity; and that compensation
at the rate of four dollars per ton of actual carrying capacity
would exceed that stipulated for in the then existing charterparties.
From July 22, 1863, till December, 1863, no further correspondence took place in regard to the barges, and they remained
in the service as before.
On the 10th of December, 1863, the Quartermaster-General
instructed Major Van Vliet that the double-decked barges
chartered by the latter must be brought within the price stated
in the letter of June 2, 1868, and that no higher rate would be
allowed for them from and after Dec. 1, 1868.
This instruction having been communicated by Major Van
Vliet to the claimants, the latter, on the 14th of December,
having before them the form of the new charter-party which
had been proposed by the Quartermaster-General, stated to
Major Van Vliet, by letter, that rather than sign the new
charter-party they had -decided to have their barges returned
to them, and that they would not let them for four dollars per
ton per month.
On the 28th of December, 1863, the Quartermaster-General
issued a circular-letter to several quartermasters, and assistant
quartermasters, among whom was Major Van Vliet, stating
that no payments would be made for charter-money for services

Oct. 1879.]

SILLIMAN V. UNITED STATES.

rendered and due after March 31, 1863, under any other form
of charter-party than that which had, on the last-named date,
been prescribed by the Quartermaster-General.
After the date of the last-mentioned letter, one of the claimants, Silliman, went to Washington and demanded of the
Quartermaster-General the return of the barges to the claimants at New York. That officer replied that the government
could not spare them; and when Silliman remonstrated with
him against their retention by the government, the Quartermaster-General said the government needed the barges and
would keep them, and he declined to pay the arrears then
due the claimants for their services under the original charterparties. Thereafter the claimants made repeated calls on
Major Van Vliet for arrearages of money, and were informed
that he was ordered not to pay them any until they had made
new charter-parties.
On the 8th of January, 1864, the claimants addressed a letter
to the Secretary of War, complaining of the treatment they
had received from officers under him, stating that two of them
had gone to Washington and could find no person who would
modify the new charter-party so that they might accept the
terms that could be agreed upon, and adding the following
-words:-

"We now complain as follows, viz.: "1. That we have requested that our barges be returned to New
York and delivered to us as per charter-party, and have been
refused.
"2. That we have 'certificates of service' for November and
December, 1863, and the quartermaster at New York has orders not
to pay until we make new charters, and we refuse to make them as
the blank charters dictate, but are willing to make some concession
in price if any person can be named here to negotiate.
"3. We desire to sell, if we cannot have our barges or obtain
money for their use, as we cannot meet our obligations to our captains and crews without money to do it, and hope you will act
favorably for us at an early date."
On the 5th of March, 1864, the claimants wrote to the
Quartermaster-General, proposing to accept the new charter-

SILLIMAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

parties from the first of the month nearest the acceptance of
the same, with certain modifications.
These modifications were accepted by the QuartermasterGeneral on the 19th of March, 1864, with the exception of the
date offered for their taking effect, which he required should
be on the 1st of April, 1863.
On the 23d of March, 1864, the claimants, by letter to the
Quartermaster-General, said as follows: "We have been paid to November 1, 1863, and if we have to go
back to April 1, 1863, we shall have to stop payment, as we have
depended on this money to keep along in our business. ...We have
been told by other parties that they dated new charters from December 1, and we can see no reason that they should be favored
above us .... We cannot go back to April 1, 1863."
To this letter the Quartermaster-General replied, on the
11th of April, 1864, that all charter-parties, without exception, executed to take effect Dec. 1, 1863, for vessels in the
service April 1, 1863, had been required to take effect from the
latter date.
After this letter the claimant, Matthews, went to Washington and had interviews with the Quartermaster-General and
other officers in his office, in which he again remonstrated, as
had before been done by his partner, Silliman; to which the
Quartermaster-General replied that they had laid down the
rule and were determined that nothing else should be done
until the new charter-parties had been executed; that until
that was done they would keep the barges and not pay for
them. Said Matthews, during his visit to Washington, finally
agreed with Colonel Clary, an officer in the QuartermasterGeneral's office, to make the new charter-parties, stating that
they did so under protest and yielded to necessity, and insisting, after he had agreed to make them, that it was wrong to
make new charter-parties.
On the 16th of May, 1864, in pursuance of Matthews' agreement, the new charter-parties were signed by the claimants
and an officer of the quartermaster's department.
The compensation therein stipulated to be paid after Oct.
31, 1863, was, from and after that date, from time to time, paid

Oct. 1879.]

SILLIMIAN V. UNITED STATES.

to the claimants for each of the barges, and when each payment
was made the claimants, without objection or protest, gave a
receipt therefor as "in full of the above account."
The claimants, in their petition, assert claims against the
United States for certain balances, computed upon the basis of
the original charter-parties, after crediting the several sums
received from time to time under the last agreements or charterparties, which they claim to have been executed under compulsion, and not, therefore, binding upon them.
They also sue to recover damages alleged to have resulted
from the use of the barges in a negligent and improper manner
by the agents of the government, and for injuries done to them
while in the government service, not attributable to ordinary
wear and tear.
The Court of Claims held claimants bound by the terms of
the charter-parties last executed, but allowed a portion of the
damages claimed.
Both parties appealed from the judgment.
3ir. Tomas J. DTurant and 11r. Charles TV. Hornor for
Silliman.
The Attorney- General, contra.
MR. JUSTICI HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The barges in question were delivered by claimants to the
government under the original charter-parties, binding the latter to pay for their use at an agreed rate, during such period as
they were retained in its service. The government was as much
bound by the terms of the contracts as were the claimants, and
no alteration thereof could take place without the assent of
both contracting parties.
The quartermaster's department demanded that the claimants should execute new charter-parties, containing stipulations
essentially different as to compensation, from those embodied
in the contracts under which the government obtained possession of the barges. It announced its purpose to retain
possession, and withhold all compensation, unless and until the
claimants executed the proposed new charter-parties. In other
words, the department informed claimants that it would not

SILLIMIAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

comply with the provisions of the original contracts unless the
claimants would submit to material alterations against their
interests and to the advantage of the government. Claimants
distinctly refused to give their assent to the proposed alterations, and asked that the barges be retudrned. But this reasonable request was not complied with by the agents of the
government. Their conduct was in plain violation of the
rights of the claimants.
Had the claimants stood upon their contract rights it is perfectly clear that the government could have been compelled to
pay the amount stiptalated in the original contracts to be paid
for the use of the barges. The claimants could have sued for
each instalment of rent as it became due, or when the government returned the barges they could have sued, as they now
sue, for the whole amount due under the original charter-parties. They had a full and complete remedy by suit against the
government in the Court of Claims for the enforcement of their
rights under those contracts. That court had then, as it has
now, jurisdiction to hear and determine all claims founded
upon contracts, express or implied, with the United States.
Its final judgments, sustaining such claims, were then as now
made payable out of any general appropriation by law for the
satisfaction of private claims against the government.
Instead, however, of seeking the aid of the law, claimants,
with a full knowledge of their legal rights, executed new charter-parties, and, from time to time, received payments according
to the rates prescribed therein - protesting, when the new
agreements were signed, that they were executed against their
wishes and under the pressure of financial necessity. They
now seek the aid of the law to enforce their rights under the
original charter-parties, upon the ground that those last signed
were executed under such circumstances as amounted, in law,
to duress. Duress of, or in, what? Not of their persons, for
there is no pretence that a refusal, on their part, to accede to
the illegal demand of the quartermaster's department would
have endangered their liberty or their personal security. There
was no threat of injury to their persons or to their property, to
avoid which it became necessary to execute new charter-parties.
Nor were those charter-parties executed for the purpose, or as

Oct. 1879.]

SILLIMAN V. UNITED STATES.

a means of obtaining possession of their property. They yielded
to the threat or demand of the department solely because they
required, or supposed they required, money for the conduct of
their business or to meet their pecuniary obligations to others.
Their duty, if they expected to rely upon the law for protection, was to disregard the threat of the department, and
apply to the courts for redress against its repudiation of a valid
contract.
We are aware of no authority in the text-books or in the
adjudged cases to justify us in holding that the last charterparties were executed under duress. There is present no
element of duress, in the legal acceptation of that word. The
hardships of particular cases should not induce the courts to
disregard the long-settled rules of law.
The case is one which in some aspects appeals strongly to
the sense of justice of the government, which cannot afford
to reap the fruits of an arbitrary abrogation by its officers, of
valid, binding contracts made in its name with the citizen. If,
in view of the condition of the country during the recent war,
the claimants were unwilling to embarrass or imperil the operations of the government by contests in the courts as to property
which, possibly, was needed by the military department for supplying the necessities of our army, these facts only strengthen
their claim to relief. But that relief must come from the legislative, and not from the judicial department.
We perceive no error in the judgment, and it is, as to all
parties,
Affirmed.

