RAILROAD Co. v. ALABAMA.

[Sup. Ct.

RAILROAD COMPAxy v. ALABAMA.
1. RailroadCompany v. Tennessee (supra, p. 337) cited and approved.
2. Where the statute of Alabama subjecting her to suit in her courts was in
force at the time when a contract with her was made and a suit thereon
brought, but their functions were essentially those of a board of audit, and
the plaintiff had no means of enforcing the payment of a judgment or a
decree in his favor, -Held, that the repeal of the statute deprives the court
of jurisdiction to proceed, and is not in violation of the contract clause of
the Constitution of the United States.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama.
The Revised Code of Alabama contains the following provisions :
ERROR

"SECT. 2534. State may be sued by citizens, or domestic corporations. A citizen of this State, or a domestic corporation, may
bring suit against the State of Alabama, in the circuit or chancery
court of the county in which he resides, or in which such corporation is located, which must, in all respects, be governed by the same
rules as suits between individuals.
"SECT. 2535. Solicitor of circuit defends for the State. The
solicitor of the circuit in which the suit is pending must attend to
the suit on the part of the State, and the governor may, if necessary,
employ assistant counsel, and the judge of the court determine the
compensation.
" SECT. 2536. Comptroller to pay judgment, on certificate of the
judge and clerk, after six months. If judgment be rendered against
the State, it is the duty of the comptroller, on the certificate of the
clerk of the court, together with that of the judge who tried the
cause, that the recovery was just, to issue his warrant for the amount,
but no certificate must issue until six months after the recovery of
judgment.
"SECT. 2571. Summons left with governor when State is sued.
When the State of Alabama is a defendant, the summons must be
executed by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with the
governor.
" SECT. 3323. The State may bring suit in chancery and be defendant therein. The State may sue and be sued, by a citizen of
the State, or domestic corporation, in chancery, and the suit is governed by the same rules ai suits between individuals. The solicitor

Oct. 1879.]

RAILROAD

Co. v'.

ALABAMA.

of the circuit in which the suit is pending must attend to the same
on the part of the State, and the governor may employ assistant
counsel, if he deem it necessary, and the Chancellor may determine
the amount of compensation; and if unsuccessful, the State is liable
for coets as individual suitors are. The direction of the executive
of the State, in writing, is sufficient authority to the attorney for
bringing such suit."
These provisions are substantially the same as those contained
in the Revised Code of 1852, and were in forcewhen the act of
Feb. 18, 1860, was passed, loaning and appropriating what is
known in her legislation as the three per cent fund.
The South and North Alabama Railroad Company, a corporation chartered by the laws of that State, brought a suit in
chancery against her April 4, 1874, in the Chancery Court of
Montgomery County. It claimed title to that fund under her
contract and legislation, and prayed for an account. The
State, by her law officer, appeared and answered. An amended
bill was filed Dec. 21, 1874.
The following act was approved Dec. 18, 1874:"SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Alabama,
that sections numbered two thousand five hundred and thirty-four
(2534), two thousand five hundred and thirty-six (2536), two thousand five hundred and seventy-one (2571), and three thousand three
hundred and twenty-three (3323) of the Revised Code of Alabama
be, and the same are, hereby repealed.
"SECT. 2. Be it further enacted, that all laws and parts of laws
in conflict with the provisions of this act, or which make any provisions for bringing or conducting suits against this State, be, and
the same are, hereby repealed."
The State, by her Attorney-General, moved the court, May
11, 1875, to dismiss the cause, on the ground that there was
then no law authorizing suits to be brought against her, and
that the suit could not be further maintained because the law
which may have authorized its institution had been repealed.
The court sustained the motion and dismissed the suit at the
costs of the complainant. The Supreme Court on appeal
affirmed the order of dismissal, and the company sued out this
writ.
vOL. X1.

53

834

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ALABAMA.

[Sup. Ct.

= The cause was argued by Hfr. Samuel . Rice and Mr. Thomas
Jones for the plaintiff in error, and submitted on brief by
Mr. John T. Morgan for the defendant in error.

a.

MR. CBan JUSTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case, like that of Railroad Company v. Tennessee (suyra,
p. 837), presents the question of the constitutionality of a law
taking away the right to sue a State on its contracts. The
Cbnstitution and laws bearing on the question are much the
same in Alabama as in Tennessee; but in Alabama it was proyided '"that if judgment should be rendered against the State,
it was the duty of the comptroller, on the certificate of the clerk
of the court, together with that of the judge who tried the
cause, that the recovery was just, to issue his warrant for the
amount., but no certificate could issue until six months after
the recovery of the judgment." Code 1867, sect. 2536. It was
also the duty of the treasurer to pay all warrants drawn on him
by the comptroller under the authority of law (Code, sect. 422) ;
but the Constitution, in force then and now, provided in express
terms that no money should be drawn from the treasurybut in
consequence of appropriations made by law. Const., 1884 and
1870, art. 2, sect. 24.
The proceedings in this case were begun while these laws
were in force; but before final bearing the laws were repealed,
and thereupon, on motion of the State, the suit was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. The Supreme Court affirmed this
decision; and the question is, therefore, directly presented by
this writ of error, whether the repealing statute is valid and
constitutional as against this plaintiff in error, so far as it
affects the present cause of action, which accrued while the
right to sue existed.
We are unable to see any substantial difference between this
case and that of Bailroad Company v. Tennessee, supra. Under
both the Tennessee and Alabama statutes the courts are made
little else than auditing boards. If funds are not voluntarily
provided to meet the judgment, the courts are not invested with
power to supply them. In Alabama, a warrant for the payment
may be secured, but the State may stop payment by withhold-

Oct. 18T9.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

ALABAMA.

ing an appropriation. Perhaps the judgment creditor may take
one step further towards the collection in Alabama than he can
in Tennessee; but both States may refuse to pay, that is, may
refuse to make the necessary appropriation, and the courts are
powerless to compel them to do so. In neither State has there
been granted such a remedy for the enforcement of the contracts
of the sovereignty as may not, under the Constitution of the
United States, be taken away.
Judgment affirmed.
1Mn. JtUsTICE SWAYNE dissented.
MR.JUSTICE STRONG took no part in deciding this case.
NoTE. - At a subsequent day of the term a petition for rehearing was filed.
Ma. CHIEF JusTrIC WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

We have examined with care the cases in Alabama referred to in the elaborate
brief filed with this petition, and are unable to see that they decide more than
that a judgment creditor is entitled to his warrant on the treasury for the amount
of his recovery. No case has gone beyond this. The treasurer must pay the
warrant when issued, if he has funds in his hands appropriated for that purpose;
but if there has been no appropriation, he cannot any more pay a warrant issued
on a judgment than one lawfully issued without a judgment. Take this case as
an illustration. The demand made by the railroad company is an extraordinary
one, and involves a large amount of money. Should a recovery be had, and the
warrant paid without reference to the specific appropriations, which had been
made by the legislature, of the funds in the treasury, it would almost of necessity
embarrass the government in its daily operations. The constitutional provision
referred to in our former opinion was, among other things, iitended to meet just
such a state of facts. Knowing what appropriations are made, the legislature
provide the funds to meet them. If, from any cause, an unusual claim arises,
the parties must wait for the payment until the legislature can provide the
money. The case is precisely like that of a judgment in the Court of Claims
against the United States. By the Constitution of the United States no "money
shall be drawn from the treasury but in consequence of appropriations made by
law." Art. 1, sect. 9. Hence the party who gets a judgment must wait until
Congress makes an appropriation before his money can be had.
Pet idoa denied.

