Oct. 1879.]

THE "FLORIDA."

Without pursuing the subject further, it is sufficient to say
that we are clearly of the opinion that the articles in question
were dutiable only at ninety per cent of the rate of fifteen per
cent ad valorem.
An objection is made to the sufficiency of the protest. The
claim is that it was not so distinct and specific as to apprise
the collector of the nature of the objection made to the duty
imposed. "Technical precision," says Mr. Justice Clifford, for
the court, in Davies v. Arthur (96 U. S. 148, 151), "is not
required ; but the objection must be so distinct and specific, as,
when fairly construed, to show that the objection taken at the
trial was at the time in the mind of the importer, and that it
was sufficient to notify the collector of its true nature and character, to the end that he might ascertain the precise facts, and
have an opportunity to correct the mistake and cure the defect,
if it was one that could be obviated." We have had no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that the protest in this case
fully meets the requirements of this rule. No one could have
any doubt of the nature and character of the claim that was
made.
Judgment affirmed.

THE "FLORIDA."
On the night of Oct. 7, 1864, the rebel steamer "Florida" was captured in the
port of Bahia, Brazil, by the United States Steamer " Wachusett," and brought

thence to Hampton Roads, where, by a collision, she was sunk.

The United

States disavowed the act of the captain of the " Wachusett"in making the
capture. He libelled the "Florida" as a prize of war. Held, that the libel

was properly dismissed.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the night of the 7th of October, 1864, the United States
steamer "Wachusett," under the command of Commander
Collins, captured the rebel steamer "Florida," in the port of
Bahia, in the empire of Brazil. The "Florida" had gone there
to supply herself with provisions and for the repair of her

THE " FLORIDA."[

[Sup. Ct.

engine. She was anchored under cover of a Brazilian vessel
of war, on the side next to the shore, and Commander Collins
was notified that if he attacked her he would be fired upon by
a neighboring fort and by the war vessels of the empire then
present. The commander, availing himself of the darkness of
the night, approached and fired upon the " Florida," received
her surrender, attached a hawser to her extending from his
vessel and towed her out to sea. i-e was pursued by a Brazilian war vessel, but escaped with his prize by superior speed.
The steamers reached the United States at Hampton Roads.
There the "Florida" was sunk by a collision, and lies where
she went down. The American consul at Bahia was on board
of the " Wachusett" at the time of the attack and incited it,
and participated in the seizure. He returned to the United
States with Commander Collins.
The Brazilian government demanded the return of the vessel
and other reparation by the United States. The latter disavowed the capture, and the matter was amicably adjusted.
The commander libelled the "Florida" as prize of war.
The court below dismissed the case, and he appealed to this
court.
The case was argued by Mr1'. Benjamin F. Butler and Mr.
Frank F. ffackett for the appellant.
The following points are taken from Mir. Hackett's brief :
The captors are entitled to have the question of prize or no
prize judicially determined. Act June 30, 1864, 13 Stat. 306.
The adjudication is essential to their protection against her
former owner, and, if in their favor, gives them also the right
to proceed against the colliding vessel, if through its negligence
the prize was sunk. The "Florida's" hull, guns, &c., are of
some determinable value, and the question of ownership therein
must be decided.
There is a res in existence. The ship is sunk in a river.
The court will not inquire whether it will pay to raise her.
The executive has no right to instruct the judicial branch of
the government as to the disposition of this libel, nor should its
wishes have any force whatever in a tribunal sitting as a high
court of prize.
In The .lsebe (5 Rob. 178), where Sir William Scott de-

Oct. 1879.]

THE "FLORIDA."

cided that the power of the crown to direct the release of property seized as prize, before adjudication and against the will of
the captors, was not taken away by any grant of prize conferred
in the Order of Council, the Proclamation, or the Prize Act,
orders had been given by the Lords of Admiralty to release
the ships before the question was raised in the prize court. In
the case at bar, no such order was ever given or promised to
Brazil.
For the views of Mr. Wheaton on the subserviency of Sir
William Scott to the orders of the crown, see Lawrence's
Wheaton, 978; Roberts, Adm. & Prize, 480, 519.
In Great Britain, the issue of peace or war is lodged in the
crown. The jus persequendi in capture being conveyed only
in the Orders in Council, and all claims of the captor subordinated to the right of the crown to make such disposition as
it pleases of the captured property, the Queen may control the
conduct of a prize suit from the beginning. She has supreme
power, with the advice of her council, to relax her belligerent
rights, and so far to make law for the prize court. The Phenix,
1 Spink, 306.
The right to capture in the name of the United States comes
not from the Executive, but from Congress. Until condemnation, no property vests in the sovereign or the captor. 10 Op.
Att.-Gen. 519. Should the government desire immediately
to make use of the captured vessel, an appraisement is made,
and her value, in case of a subsequent condemnation, represents
the prize fund. Act March 3, 1863, sect. 2.
The act of June 80, 1864 (supra), although modelled upon
the English prize acts, presents certain features essentially distinct from them. In England, the prize court exercises, in
time of war only, a peculiar but extraordinary jurisdiction,
specially conferred by Parliament. Roberts, Adm. & Prize,
444. In this country, the prize courts ar6 ever open to prize
causes. Their jurisdiction extends not only to cases specially
provided for by Congress, but to limits recognized by international law, or the custom and usage of nations. Id. 445.
The captors themselves are authorized, under certain circumstances, to commence proceedings, a right unknown to the
English prize law.

THE " FLORIDA."

[Sup. GtL

The question here is not, as in the "Elsebe," whether in time
of war the Executive can give. up to a foreign nation a captured
vessel without making reparation to the captors, but whether,
after having gained jurisdiction, and the custody of the vessel,
a prize court, sitting in the United States in time of peace, will
be controlled by the wishes of the Executive in determining
whether the vessel be or be not good prize. The act makes it
the duty of the district attorney, upon report of the prizemaster, to file a libel against the property, and to "proceed diligently to obtain a condemnation and distribution thereof."
Rev. Stat., sect. 4618. The Attorney-General, by opposing
this libel and asking its dismissal, is asserting a power not
granted by the act.
The alleged violation of the neutrality of Brazil is no defence
to this libel. This is an objection which the neutral nation
alone can interpose. The Lilla, 2 Sprague, 177; The Sir
William Peel, 5 Wall. 517; The Adela, 6 id. 266.
A capture made within neutral waters is, as between enemies, deemed to all intents and purposes rightful ; it is only by
the neutral sovereign that its legal validity can be called in
question, and as to him, and him only, is it to' be considered
void. The Anne, 3 Wheat. 435. It was there held that even
a consul, unless specially authorized by his government, cannot
interpose a claim of violated sovereignty. The Sancta Trinita,
cited in a note to The Anne, shows that the French law is like
the English and American in this respect. See 3 Phillimore,
Int. Law, p. 453, where Te Anne is approvingly cited.
1 Kent, Com. (12th ed.) 117, note 1; id. 121; The Etrusco,
3 C. Rob. 162, note.
It is objected that the capture of the "Florida" was in direct violation of the orders of the Secretary of the Navy, and
therefore illegal and void; and that the distribution of the
proceeds of her sale as prize would be a reward to officers
for disobedience.
Those orders are nothing more than regulations for the discipline of the navy. Their violation subjects the offender to a
court-martial. "If the sovereign should, by a special order,
authorize the capture of neutral property for a cause manifestly
unfounded in the law of nations, it would afford a complete

Oct. 1879.]

THE "FLORIDA."

justification ef the captors in all tribunals of prize." gaisonvaire v. Keating, 2 Gall. 825. The orders of the Secretary can
go no further than international law itself in stamping the
capture with illegality. Commander Collins was, by a courtmartial, found guilty of disobeying the orders of the Secretary,
but the sentence of dismissal was not approved.
Nor can it be urged that the capture was not for the use and
benefit of the United States. It is a matter of public record
that this government lodged before the tribunal of arbitration
at Geneva claims for direct losses to our merchant marine
inflicted by the " Florida," amounting to over $4,000,000.
Suppose that immediately on the arrival of the " Florida"
at Hampton Roads the Southern Confederacy had collapsed,
Brazil would have demanded reparation, but not the return of
the vessel. Would not she in that event have been decreed
good prize? What difference between this supposed state of
things, and that where, after the war was over and the honor
of Brazil had been satisfied, the wrecking company had raised
the "Florida," pumped her out, and she had been sold, and
the proceeds held as a prize fund ? In neither case could the
United States set up the invasion of neutral rights as against
the claim of the captors to have the ship declared good
prize.
Besides, the objection that neutrality was violated is completely removed by the seventh section of the act of 28th July,
1866 (14 Stat. 322), which enacts "that the Secretary of the
Navy be, and lhe is hereby, authorized to dispose of the property saved from the rebel steamer ' Florida,' and distribute the
proceeds thereof as other prize money is required by law to be
distributed." In accordance with this provision, the sum of
$20,899.43 was distributed as prize-money to the captors, being,
as between them and the United States, the value of certain
property captured on board. Congress, therefore, sanctioned
the capture as lawful.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
AtI. JUSTICE SwAYNE, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The legal principles applicable to the facts disclosed in the

THE " FLORIDA."

[Sup. Ot.

record are well settled in the law of nations, and in English
Extended remarks upon the
and American jurisprudence.
subject are, therefore, unnecessary. See Grotius, De Jure
Belli, b. 3, c. 4, sect. 8; Bynkershoek, 61, c. 8; Bu i lamaqui,
vol. ii. pt. 4, c. 5, sect. 19; Vattel, b, 3, c. 7, sect. 132; Dana's
Wheaton, sect..429 and note 208; 3 Rob. Ad. Rep. 373; 5 id.
21; The Anne, 3 Wheat. 435; Ea Amistad de Rues, 5 id. 385;
The Santissima Trinidad, 7 id. 283, 496; Tie Sir William
Peel, 5 Wall. 517; The Adela, 6 id. 266; 1 Kent, Com. (last
ed.), pp. 112, 117, 121.
Grotius. speaking of enemies in war, says: "But that we
may not kill or hurt them in a neutral country, proceeds not
from any privileges attached to their persons, but from the
right of the prince in whose dominions they are."
A capture in neutral waters is valid as between belligerents.
'either a belligerent owner nor an individual enemy owner
can be heard to complain. But the neutral sovereign whose
territory has been violated may interpose and demand reparation, and is entitled to have the captured property restored.
The latter was not done in this case because the captured
vessel had been sunk and lost. It was, therefore, impossible.
The libellant was not entitled to a decree in his favor, for
several reasons.
The title to captured property always vests primarily in the
government of the captors. The rights of individuals, where
such rights exist, are the results of local law or regulations.
Here, the capture was promptly disavowed! by the United
States. They, therefore, never had any title.
The case is one in which the judicial is bound to follow the
action of the political department of the government, and is
concluded by it. Phillips v. Payne, 92 U. S. 130.
These things must necessarily be so, otherwise the anomaly
would be possible, that, while the government was apologizing
and making reparation to avoid a foreign war, the offending
officer might, through the action of its courts, fill his pockets
with the fruits of the offence out of which the controversy
arose. When the capture was disavowed by our government,
it became for all the purposes of this case as if it had not
occurred.

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. HALL.

Lastly, the maxim, "ex turpi causa non oritur actio," applies
with full force. No court will lend its aid to a party who
founds his claim for redress upon an illegal act.
The Brazilian government was justified by the law of nations
in demanding the return of the captured vessel and proper
redress otherwise. It was due to its own character, and to the
neutral position it bad assumed between the belligerents in the
war then in progress, to take prompt and vigorous measures in
the case, as was done. The commander was condemned by
the law of nations, public policy, and the ethics involved in
his conduct.

-Decreeaffirmed.

NATIOxAL BANK v. HALL.
A., B., & Co., a firm engaged in selling live.stock on commission, authorized a
bank to cash drafts drawn on the firm by C., their agent, who forwarded livestock to them. Some controversy arising, A., B., & Co. wrote to the bank as
follows: "JAN. 15, 1876.
"Hereafter we will pay drafts only on actual consignments. We cannot advance
money a week in advance of shipment. The stock must be in transit so as to meet
dr'ft same day or the day after presented to us. This letter will cancel all previous
arrangement of letters of credit in reference to C."
The cashier of the bank replied as follows :-

"J'A. 17, 1876.
"Your favor of the 15th received. I note what you say. We have never knowingly advanced any money to C. on stock to come in. Have always supposed it was
in transit. After this we shall require ship'g bill."
There was no further communication on this subject between the parties.
Two clerks of A., B., & Co. who were aware of this correspondence became
partners without the knowledge of the bank, and the business was thereafter
carried on in the same name. C. continued to draw on the firm as before,
and the bank, without requiring bills of lading, to cash the drafts, all of which
were accepted and paid by the firm. The bank acted in good faith. C.
absconded with the proceeds of two drafts, and the firm brought this action
against the bank to recover the amount. Hdd,1. That the letters constitute
no contract, and the bank is not responsible to the firm for cashing the drafts
without bills of lading attached. 2. That if, however, a contract did arise
from the cashier's unanswered letter of Jan. 17, 1876, it was with the then
existing firm, and ceased on the subsequent change thereof by the admission
of new members, without the knowledge or the consent of the bank.

