Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

have been willing to contract with the firm as it was originally, but not as it was subsequently. At any rate, it bad the
right to know and to decide for itself. Without its assent a
thing was wanting which was indispensable to the continuity of
the contract. Barns et al. v. Barrow, 61 N. Y. 39; Grant v.
Naylor, 4 Cranch, 224; Bleeker v. Hyde, 3 McLean, 279; Taylor v. Wetmore, 10 Ohio, 490; Taylor v. McClung, 2 Houst.
(Del.) 24; Hunt v. Smith, 17 Wend. (N. Y.) 179; Cremer v.
ifigginson, 1 Alas. 323; Bussell v. Perkins, id. 368.
The court refused an instruction asked for in accordance with
this view of the subject. This, also, was an error.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the court below with directions to proceed in conformity to this
opinion; and it is
So ordered.

MANUFACTURING

COMrPANY

v.

TRAINER.

1. Letters or figures affixed to merchandise by a manufacturer, for the purpose
of denoting its quality only, cannot be appropriated by him to his exclusive
use as a trade-mark.
2. An injunction will not be granted at his suit to restrain another manufacturer
from using a label bearing no resemblance to the complainant's, except
that certain letters, which alone convey no meaning, are inserted in the
centre of each, the dissimilarity of the labels being such that no one will
be misled as to the true origin or ownership of the merchandise.

APPE AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. George . Dallas and Ir.
appellant.
.3'r.Samuel -Dickson,contra.

James -E. Gowen for the

MIR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity to restrain the defendants, D. Trainer
& Sons, from using on ticking manufactured and sold by them
the letters "A. C. A." in the sequence here named, alleged by
the complainant to be its trade-mark, by which it designates

MANUFACTURTNG

Co. v.

TRAINER.

[Sup. Ct.

ticking of a particular quality of its own manufacture; and to
compel the defendants to account for the profits made by them
on sales of ticking thus marked.
It appears that the complainant, the Amoskeag Manufacturing Company, a corporation created under the laws of New
Hampshire, commenced the manufacture of ticking at Amoskeag Falls, in that State, some time prior to 1884, and marked
its products with a label or ticket consisting of a certain device,
within which were printed, in red colors, the name of the company, its place of manufacture, the words "Power Loom," and
in the centre the single letter "A" or "B " or "0" or ,D ,"
according to the grade of excellence of the goods, the first
quality being indicated by the firist letter and the decreasing
quality from that grade by subsequent letters in the alphabet.
The device, apart from the words mentioned, was a fancy
border in red colors, square outside and elliptical within, and
the words in the upper and lower lines of the label were
printed in a line corresponding with the inside curve of the
border.
In the year 1834, or about that time, the company introduced
an improvement in its manufacture, by which it produced a
grade or quality of ticking superior to any which it bad previously manufactured. For goods of this quality it used in its
label or ticket, in place of the single letter "A," the three letters
"A. C. A." The original device, with its colored border and
printed words, indicating the company by which and the place
where the goods were manufactured was retained; the only
alteration consisting in the substitution of the three letters "A.
Subsequently the
C. A." in place of the single letter "A."
company changed its place of manufacture from Amoskeag Falls
to Manchester, in the same State, and a corresponding change
was then made in the label. The three letters mentioned were
placed in the label or ticket on all goods of the very highest
quality manufactured by the complainant, the single letter
being retained in the labels placed on other goods to indicate
a lower grade or quality. The combination of the three letters was probably suggested, as is stated, by the initials of
the words in the company's name, - Amoskeag Company, with the letter "A" previously used, to denote the best quality

Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

of goods it manufactured. It is contended by the complainant
that the combination was adopted and used to indicate, not
merely the quality of the goods, but also their origin as of the
manufacture of the Amoskeag Company. It is upon the correctness of this position that it chiefly relies for a reversal of
the decree dismissing the bill.
On the part of the defendants the contention is that the letters were designed and are used to indicate the quality of the
goods manufactured and not their origin; that it was so adjudged
many years ago in a case to which the company was a party in
the Superior Court of the city of New York, which adjudication
has been generally accepted as correct, and acted upon by manufacturers of similar goods throughout the country; and that
the letters, as used by the defendants on a label or ticket having their own device, and in connection with words different
from those used by the complainant, do not mislead or tend to
mislead any one as to the origin of the goods upon which they
are placed.
The general doctrines of the law as to trade-marks, the
symbols or signs which may be used to designate products of a
particular manufacture, and the protection which the courts
will afford to those who originally appropriated them, are not
controverted. Every one is at liberty to affix to a product of
his own manufacture any symbol or device, not previously appropriated, which will distinguish it from articles of the same
general nature manufactured or sold by others, and thus secure
to himself the benefits of increased sale by reason of any peculiar excellence he may have given to it. The symbol or device
thus becomes a sign to the public of the origin of the goods
to which it is attached, and an assurance that they are the
genuine article of the original producer. In this way it often
proves to be of great value to the manufacturer in preventing the substitution and sale of an inferior and different
article for his products. It becomes his trade-mark, and the
courts will protect him in its exclusive use, either by the
imposition of damages for its wrongful appropriation or by
restraining others from applying it to their goods and compelling them to account for profits made on a sale of goods
marked with it.

54

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

[Sup. Ct.

The limitations upon the use of devices as trade-marks are
well defined. The object of the trade-mark is to indicate,
either by its own meaning or by association, the origin or ownership of the article to which it is applied. If it did not, it
would serve no useful purpose either to the manufacturer or to
the public; it would afford no protection to either against the
sale of a spurious in place of the genuine article. This object
of the trade-mark and the consequent limitations upon its use
are stated with great clearness in the case of Canal Company
v. Clark, reported in the 13th Wallace. There the court said,
speaking through TMr. Justice Strong, that "no one can claim
protection for the exclusive use of a trade-mark or trade name
which would practically give him a monopoly in the sale of
any goods other than those produced or made by himself. If
he could, the public would be injured, rather than protected,
for competition would be destroyed. Nor can a generic name
or a name merely descriptive of an article of trade, of its qualities, ingredients, or characteristics, be employed as a trade-mark,
and the exclusive use of it be entitled to legal protection."
And a citation is made from the opinion of the Superior Court
of the city of New York in the case of the present complainant
against Spear, reported in the 2d of Sandford, that "the owner
of an original trade-mark has an undoubted right to be protected in the exclusive use of all the marks, forms, or symbols
that were appropriated as designating the true origin or ownership of the article or fabric to which they are affixed; but he
has no right to the exclusive use of any words, letters, figures,
or symbols which have no relation to the origin or ownership
of the goods, but are only meant to indicate their names or
quality. He has no right to appropriate a sign or symbol,
which from the nature of the fact it is used to signify, others
may employ with equal truth, and therefore have an equal right
to employ for the same purpose."
Many adjudications, both in England and in this country,
might be cited in illustration of the doctrine here stated. For
the purpose of this case, and in support of the position that a
right to the exclusive use of words, letters, or symbols, to indicate merely the quality of the goods to which they are affixed
cannot be acquired, it will be sufficient to refer, in addition to

Oct. 1879.]

M1ANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

the decisions mentioned in Wallace and Sandford, to the judgment of the Vice-Chancellor in Raggett v. Pindlater,where an
injunction to restrain the use by the defendants upon their
trade label of the term "nourishin g stout," which the plain'tiff
had previously used, was refused on the ground that "nourishin- " was a mere English word denoting quality. Law Rep.
17 Eq. 29. Upon the same principle letters or figures which,
by the custom of traders, or the declaration of the manufacturer of the goods to which they are attached, are only used to
denote quality, are incapable of exclusive appropriation; but
are open to use by any one, like the adjectives of the language.
If, now, we apply the views thus expressed to the case at bar,
we shall find the question involved to be of easy solution. It is
clear from the history of the adoption of the letters "A. C. A."
as narrated by the complainant, and the device within which
they are used, that they were only designed to represent the
highest quality of ticking which is manufactured by the complainant, and not its origin. The device previously and subsequently used stated the name of the manufacturer, and no
purpose could have been subserved by any further declaration
of that fact. And besides, the letters themselves do not suggest any thing, and require explanation before any meaning can
be attached to them. That explanation when made is that
they are placed in the device of the company when it is affixed
to the finest quality of its goods, while single letters are used in
the same device when it is attached to goods of an inferior
quality. They are never used by themselves, but merely as
part of a device containing, in addition to the border in red,
several printed terms. Alone the letters convey no meaning;
they are only significant as part of the general device constituting the trade-mark. Used in that device to denote only
quality, and so understood, they can be used by others for a
similar purpose equally with the words "superior" or "superfine," or other words or letters or figures having a like
signification.
We are aware that there is in the record the testimony of
several witnesses to the effect that they understood that the
letters were intended to indicate the origin as well as the qual-

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

[Sup. Ct.

ity of the goods to which they were attached, but it is entirely
overborne by the patent fact that the label previously disclosed
the name in full of the manufacturer and by the history of the
adoption of the letters, as narrated by the complainant. As it
was pertinently observed in the case in Sandford, if purchasers
of the ticking read the name of the company, the letters can
give no additional information, even if it be admitted that they
are intended to indicate the name of the comany. And if
they do not read the name as printed, the letters are unintelligible. If an explanation be asked of their purpose in the label,
the only reasonable answer which can be given is the one which
corresponds with the fact that they are designed merely to
indicate the quality of the goods.
But there is another and equally conclusive answer to the
suit. The label used by the defendants is not calculated to
mislead purchasers as to the origin of the goods to which it is
attached. It does not resemble the device of the complainant.
Its border has a different figure; it is square outside and inside.
It has within it the words "Omega" and "Ring Twist," as
well as the letters "A. C. A." Neither the name of the complainant, nor of the place where its goods are manufactured,
nor the words "Power Loom," are upon it. The two labels
are so unlike in every particular, except in having the letters
"A. C. A." in their centre, that it is impossible that any one
can be misled in supposing the goods, to which the label of the
defendants is attached, are those manufactured by the complainant. The whole structure of the case thus falls to the
ground. There is no such imposition practised upon the public and no such fraud perpetrated upon the manufacturers, in
attempting to dispose of the goods of one as those of another,
as to call for the interposition of a court of equity.
.Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLFroRD dissenting.
Symbols or devices used by a manufacturer or merchant to
distinguish the products, manufactures, or merchandise which
he produces, manufactures, or sells, from that of others, are
called and known by the name of trade-marks. They are used
in order that such products, manufactures, or merchandise may

Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING

Co. v. TRAINER.

be known as belonging to the owner of the symbol or device,
and that he may secure the profits from its reputation or superiority. 15 Am. Cyclopedia, 832.
Equity courts in all civilized countries have for centuries
afforded protection to trade-marks, the object of such protection being not only to secure to the individual the fruits of his
skill, industry, and enterprise, but also to protect the public
against fraud.
Property in a trade-mark is acquired by the original application to some species of merchandise or manufacture of a symbol
or device not in actual use to designate articles of the same kind
or class.
Devices of the kind, in order that they may be entitled to
protection in a court of equity, must have the essential qualities of a lawful trade-mark; but if they have, the owner becomes entitled to its exclusive use within the limits prescribed
by law, the rule being that he who first adopts such a trademark acquires the right to its exclusive use in connection with
the particular class of merchandise to which its use has been
applied by himself or his agents.
Prior use is essential to any such exclusive claim, as the
right to protection begins from such actual prior use ; nor does
the right to protection extend beyond the actual use of the device. Hence the use of it on one particular article of manufacture or merchandise will not prevent another from using it
on another and different class of articles, the rule being strictly
applied that the right to protection in equity is limited to the
prior use of the symbol by the owner.
Sufficient appears to show that the plaintiffs, at an early period
in the fourth decade of the present century, engaged in the
manufacture of a fabric known as ticking of various grades and
quality, and that subsequently they made a valuable improvenment in the mode of manufacturing the fabric, which enabled
them to produce a very superior articles. Before the introduction of the improvement they had been in the habit of marking
their products in that species of manufacture with one of the
first four letters of the alphabet, to designate the different
grades of their manufacture when offered for sale in the market.
Thirty-four years ago or more they introduced the new im-

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

[Sup. Ct.

provement in the manufacture of the fabric, and adopted the
distinctive trade-mark, of which a fac-simile is exhibited in the
transcript. When examined, it will be seen that it consists of
the corporate name of the complainants, with a rough engraved
surrounding, and the letters "A. C. A." plainly and conspicuously printed in the centre of the circular outside edge.
Conclusive proof is exhibited that the peculiar combination
of letters adopted by the complainants as a symbol of trade
originated with them, and that it suggested itself to them as
comprising the initial letters of their familiar corporate name,
with the addition of the letter "A" at the close, which had previously been used by them as indicating the best quality of the
fabric manufactured by them before they made the alleged
improvement.
Single letters of the kind are frequently used as a mark of
quality; but the proofs in this case show to a demonstration
that the peculiar combination of letters adopted by the complainants at the period mentioned were not adopted to denote
quality merely, but as an appropriate and distinguishing
trade-mark, symbol, or device, to indicate to the public and to
purchasers that the fabric which bears the mark was of the
manufacture of the manufacturing company of the complainants. Beyond all doubt, they adopted the symbol or device,
and affixed it to the fabric of their trade to indicate the origin
and ownership of the article.
Few manufactured products bear in their own external appearance sufficient evidence of their real character to protect
the purchaser against fraudulent imitations. Integrity in manufacture and uniformity in quality are high recommendations
to purchasers, and manufactured goods falling within that
category are much preferred, both by the purchasers and consumers of the same; and when by long experience the public
have learned to associate these elements of recommendatidn
with a special symbol or brand, the wide and profitable sale of
the articles bearing the same is assured, and the exclusive possession and use of the symbol or brand becomes of great value
to the real owner. Purchasers are also interested that such a
trade-mark should receive protection, as it is a guaranty of
genuineness, and its value is proportioned to the business repu-

Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING Co. v. TRAINER.

tation of the owners of the same and of the excellence of their
manufactures. 4 Johns. Cyclopedia, part 2, p. 916.
Infringement by the respondents is charged, and the complainants pray for an injunction and for an account. Service
was made, and the respondents appeared and set up various
defences, as follows: 1. That the alleged trade-mark was never
designed or used as such, but merely to designate one of the
grades of the fabric which the complainants manufactured.
2. That the complainants are estopped by a prior decision of a
court of competent jurisdiction to set up that the alleged symbol is a trade-mark. 3. They admit that they mark their
goods with the letters "A. C. A.," but they deny that the mark
is fraudulent or that it is calculated to deceive the public.
4. They deny that their conduct is in the slightest degree fraudulent or inequitable, or that the sale of their goods injures the
complainants.
Proofs were taken, hearing had, and the Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the bill of complaint. Prompt
appeal was taken by the complainants to this court, and they
assign the following causes of error: 1. That the Circuit
Court erred in entering a decree dismissing the bill of complaint. 2. That the court erred in not granting the injunction
as prayed. 3. That the court erred in not decreeing that the
complainants are entitled to an account. 4. That the court
erred in not sustaining the bill of complaint.
Attempt is made in argument to show that the symbol of the
complainants was not adopted by them for any other purpose
than to designate the grade or quality of the fabric which they
manufacture and sell in the market; but it is a sufficient answer
to that proposition to say that it is wholly unsupported by evidence, and is decisively overthrown by the proof introduced by
the complainants.
Words or devices, or even a name in certain cases, may be
adopted as a trade-mark which is not the original invention of
the party who appropriates the same to that use. Phrases, or
even words or letters in common use, may be adopted for the
purpose, iffat the time of their adoption they were not employed by another to designate the same or similar articles of
production or sale. Stamps or trade-marks of the kind are

/"

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

[Sup. Ct.

employed to point to the origin, ownership, or place of manufacture or sale of the article to which it is affixed, or to give
notice to the public who is the producer, or where it may be
purchased. Canal Company v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 322.
Subject to the preceding qualifications a trade-mark may
consist of a name, symbol, figure, letter, form, or device, if
adopted and used by a manufacturer or merchant in order to
designate the goods he manufactures or sells, or to distinguish
the same from those manufactured or sold by another, to the
end that the goods may be known in the market as his, and to
enable him to secure such profits as result from his reputation
for skill, industry, and fidelity. Upton, Trade-marks, 9;
Taylor v. Carpenter,2 Sandf. (N. Y.) Ch. 603.
Brands or stamps called trade-marks, says Waite, may consist of a name, figure, letter, form, or device adopted and used
by a manufacturer or merchant in order to designate the goods
that he manufactures or sells, and to distinguish them from
those manufactured or sold by another, to the end that they
may be known in the market as his, and thus enable him to
secure such profits as result from a reputation for superior skill,
industry, or enterprise. 6 Waite, Actions and Defences, 21.
Such a manufacturer or merchant who first adopts such a
trade-mark, and is accustomed to affix the same to a particular
fabric of his manufacture or sale to distinguish it from all
others, has a property in it, and may maintain an action for
damages if used by another, or he may restrain another from
using it by application to a court of equity. Hall v. Barrows,
4 De G. J. & S. 149, 156 ; s. c. 12 W. R. 322, 323.
Judicial protection is granted in such a case upon the ground
that the honest, skilful, industrious manufacturer or enterprising merchant who has produced or brought into the market an
article of use or consumption that has found favor with the
public, and who by affixing to it some name, mark, device, or
symbol which serves to distinguish it as his and from that of
all others, shall receive the first reward of his honesty, skill,
or enterprise, and shall in no manner and to no extent be deprived of the same by another who to that end appropriates
the same or a colorable imitation of the same to his production,
so that the public are or may be deceived or misled. Wolfe

Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING Co. v. TRAINER.

v. Barnett & lion, 24 La. An. 9T; Newman v. Alvord, 15 N. Y.
189, 196; Lee v. Haley, Law Rep. 5 Ch. Ap. 155 ; Blackwell
v. Wright, 73 N. 0. 310, 313.
Nothing can be better established, says the Master of the
Rolls, and nothing ought to be otherwise than fully established
in a civilized country, than that a manufacturer is not entitled
to sell his goods under the false representation that they are
made by a rival manufacturer. Singer lttanufacturing (Jo. v.
Wil8on, 2 Ch. D. 434, 440; Browne, Trade-marks, sect. 385;
Osgood v. Allen, 1 Holmes, 185, 194.
When we consider, says Duer, the nature of the wrong that
is committed when the right of property in a trade-mark is
invaded, the necessity for the interposition of a court of equity
becomes more apparent. He who affixes to his own goods an
imitation of an original trade-mark, by which those of another
are distinguished and known, seeks by deceiviyg the public to
divert to his own use the profits to which the superior skill
and enterprise of the other had given him an exclusive title,
and endeavors by a false representation to effect a dishonorable
purpose by committing a fraud upon the public and upon the
true owner of the trade-mark. Amoskeag lVanufacturing Co.
v. Spear, 2 Sandf. (N. Y.) 599, 605; The Collins Company v.
Brown, 3 Kay & J. 423, 428.
Thirty years and more before the suit was commenced the
plaintiff company adopted the trade-mark in question and affixed the same to their improved manufacture of ticking, and
it appears from the evidence that they have continuously from
that date to the day the bill of complaint was filed used the
same as the symbol to designate that peculiar manufacture,
which of itself is sufficient to show, if any thing in the nature
of proof can be, that the first defence set up in the answer
ought to be overruled.
Much discussion of the second defence cannot be required,
as the statement of the proposition that the complainants are
estopped to ask relief in this case because they were partially
unsuccessful in a prior suit against another party is quite sufficient for its refutation. Neither argument nor authority is
necessary to show that it has no foundation in law or justice,
and it is equally clear that the supposed analogy between an

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

[Sup. Ct.

admiralty decree in rem and a decree dismissing a bill in
equity for the invasion of a trade-mark is illusory, unfounded,
and without the slightest legal effect.
Suppose that is so, still the respondents deny that the trademark which they use is in the slightest degree fraudulent, or
that it is calculated to deceive the public. They admit that
they use the letters "A. 0. A.," but they deny that in any
other respect they have used the trade-mark adopted by the
complainants.
Manufacturers and merchants have severally the unquestioned right to distinguish the goods they manufacture or sell
by a peculiar mark or device, so that the goods may be known
in the market as the product or sale of the owner of the trademark, or device, in order that they may thus secure the profits
which the superior repute of the goods may be the means of
giving to the producer or seller. Gillott v. Bsterbrook,48 N. Y,.
374, 376.
Confirmation of that proposition is found in all the reported
cases, and it is equally true that the owners of such trade-marks
are entitled to the protection of a court of equity in the exclusive use of the symbols they have thus adopted and affixed to
their goods, the foundation of the rule being that the public
interest as well as the interest of the owner of the trade-mark
requires that protection. 2 Story, Eq. Jur., sect. 951.
Such a party has a valuable interest in his trade or business,
and having appropriated a particular label or trade-mark indicating to those who wish to give him their patronage that the
article is made or sold by him or by his authority, or that he
carries on his business at a particular place, he is entitled to
protection against any other person who attempts to pirate
upon the good-will of his customers or of the patrons of his
trade or business by sailing under his flag without his authority or consent. -Partridgev. HencJ,
2 Barb. (N. Y.)
Oh. 101.
Redress is given in such cases upon the ground that the
party charged is not allowed to offer his goods for sale, representing them to be the manufacture of the first and real owner
of the trade-mark, because by doing so he would be guilty of
a misrepresentation, and would deprive the real owner of the

Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

profits he might make by the sale of his goods which the purchaser intended to buy.
Compensation for such an injury was in early times given to
the injured party by an action of deceit at common law, long
before the Court of Chancery attempted to exercise jurisdiction
to grant relief for such wrongful acts. In such an action it is
doubtless true that the plaintiff is required to allege that the
party charged infringed the trade-mark with a fraudulent intent, and to prove the charge as alleged, in order to secure a
verdict and judgment for redress. Certain early cases in equity
may be found where it is held that it is requisite that the allegation and proof in a chancery suit should be the same; but the
practice in equity has long been settled otherwise, the rule now
being that the injury the owner of the trade-mark suffers by
the offering for sale in the market of other gobds side by side
with his, bearing the same trade-mark, entitles the real owner
of the trade-mark to protection in equity, irrespective of the
intent of the wrong-doer, it being held that the inquiry done
to the complainant in his trade by loss of custom is sufficient
to support his title to relief.
Neither will the complainant be deprived of remedy in equity,
even if it be shown by the respondent that all the persons who
bought goods from him bearing the trade-mark of the real
owner were well aware that they were not of the complainant's
manufacture. If the goods were so supplied by the wrong-doer
for the purpose of being resold in the market, the injury to
the complainant is sufficient to entitle him to relief in equity.
Nor is it necessary, in order to entitle the party to relief,
that proof should be given of persons having been actually deceived, or that they bought goods in the belief that they were
of the manufacture of the complainant, provided that the court
is satisfied that the resemblance is such as would be likely to
cause the one mark to be mistaken for the other. BEdel8ton v.
Ef delston, 1 De G. J. & S. 185 ; McAndrew v. Bassett, 4 id.
380, Sebastian, Trade-marks, 70.
Two trade-marks are substantially the same in legal contemplation, if the resemblance is such as to deceive an ordinary
purchaser giving such attention to the same as such purchaser
usually gives, and to cause him to purchase the one supposing it

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

[Sup. Ct.

to be the other. Gorham Company v. White, 14 Wall. 511; McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245, 256; Adams, Trade-marks, 107.
Difficulties" attend the effort to describe with precision what
resemblance is necessary to constitute an infringement, and
perhaps it is not going too far to say that the term is incapable
of exact definition as applied to all cases. Grant that, and still
it is safe to say that no manufacturer or merchant can properly
adopt a trade-mark so resembling that of another engaged in
the same business as that ordinary purchasers buying with
ordinary caution are likely to be misled.
Positive evidence of fraudulent intent is not required where
the proof of infringement is clear, as the liability of the infringer arises from the fact that he is enabled through the
unjustifiable use of the trade-mark to sell a simulated article
as and for the one which is genuine. McLean v. Fleming,
supra.
Unless the simulated trade-mark bears a resemblance to that
which is genuine, it is clear that the charge of infringement
is not made out, and it is doubtless true that the resemblance
of the simulated one to the genuine must be such that the
former is calculated to deceive or mislead purchasers intending
to buy the genuine goods; but it is a mistake to suppose that
the resemblance must be such as would deceive persons seeing
the two trade-marks placed side by side. Exact definition may
not be attainable; but if a purchaser looking at the article
offered to him, said Lord Cranworth, would naturally be led
from the mark impressed on it to suppose it to be the production of the rival manufacturer, and would purchase it in that
belief, the court considers the use of such a mark fraudulent.
Pranksv. Weaver, 10 Beav. 29T.
Apply that rule to the case before the court, and it is sufficient to control the decision; but the Chancellor went much
further, and said, that if the goods of a manufacturer have, from
the mark or device he has used, become known in the market
by a particular name, he thought that the adoption by a rival
trader of any mark which will cause his goods to bear the
same name in the market, may be as much a violation of the
rights of the owner as the actual copy of his device. Seixo v.
Provezende, Law Rep. 1 Ch. 192, 196.

Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING

CO. v.

TRAINER.

When the entire trade-mark is copied, the case is free of
difficulty, as the rule is universal that the infringer is liable;
but the question is, when may it be said that a trade-mark has
been taken by another? Answers to that question are found
in several cases, of which no one is more satisfactory than that
given by the Master of tkie Rolls in a recent case. He says that
a trade-mark to be taken need not be exactty copied, nor need
it be copied with slight variations, but it must be a sub8tantial
portion of the trade-mark; to which he adds, that it has sometimes been called the material portion, but that, as he states,
means the same thing, and he then remarks that it means the
essential portion of the trade-mark, and finally concludes the
subject by saying that "what the court has to satisfy itself of
is that there has been an essential portion of the trade-mark
used to designate goods of a similar description." Singer iIvanufacturing Co. v. Wilson, 2 Ch. D. 434, 443; Cod. Dig., sect. 342.
Argument to show that that rule is applicable to the case
before the court is unnecessary, as the proposition is self-evident; and if so, it is impossible to see how any one can vote
to affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court. Beyond all question, the letters "A. C. A." are the essential feature of the
trade-mark adopted by the complainants, and the respondents
admit in their answer and in argument that they use the same
three letters in the same combination.
Complete imitation is not required by any of the well-considered cases. Instead of that, it is well settled that the proof
of infringement is sufficient if it shows even a limited and partial imitation, provided the part taken is an essential portion
of the symbol. None of the cases show that the whole must
be taken, nor is it necessary to show that any one has in fact
been deceived, if the imitation is such as to prove that it is
calculated to, deceive ordinary purchasers using ordinary caution. Proof of actual intent to defraud is not required, but it
is sufficient if the court sees that the trade-mark of the complainant is simulated in such a manner as probably to deceive
the customers and patrons of his trade and business. Rilley v.
X'aasett, 44 Mo. 168, 178; Coats v. Holbrook, 2 Sandf. (N. Y.)
Ch. 586, 626.
Courts of justice do not always use the same language in
VOL. X1.
5

MANUFACTURING

CO.

v.

TRAINER.

[Sup. Ot.

defining what is the requisite similarity in the two trade-marks
to entitle the complainant to relief, but they substantially concur that if it be such that the public may be led to believe
while they buy the goods of the respondent that they are buying an article manufactured by the complainant, the proof of
similarity is sufficient. Hfirst v. -enham, Law Rep. 14 Eq.
542, 552.
For the purpose of establishing a case of infringement, it is
not necessary to show that there has been the use of a mark
in all respects corresponding with that which another person
has acquired an exclusive right to use, if the resemblance is
such as not only to show an intention to deceive, but also such
as to be likely to make unwary purchasers suppose that they
are purchasing the article sold by the party to whom the right
to use the trade-mark belongs. Wotherspoon v. Currie, Law
Rep. 5 Ap. Cas. 508-519; s. c. 27 L. T. N. s. 393.
Chancery courts will protect the property rights of a party
in his trade-mark, and for its invasion the law will award compensation in damages. Legal redress will be accorded when it
is shown that the symbol or device used by the wrong-doer is
of such a'character that by its resemblanced to the established
trade-mark of the complainant it will be liable to deceive the
public and lead to the purchase of that which is not the manufacture of the proprietor, believing it to be his.
It is not necessary that the symbol or device should be a facsimile or a precise copy of the original trade-mark, or that it
should be so close an imitation that the two cannot be easily
distinguished by one familiar with the genuine device; but if
the false or simulated one is only colorably different, or if the
resemblance is such as may deceive a purchaser of ordinary
caution, or if it is calculated to mislead the careless and unwary, and thus to injure the sale of the goods of the proprietor
of the true device, the injured party is entitled to redress.
11
Colman v. Crump, 70 N. Y. 573,-578; @Ienny v. ,ith,
Jur. w. s. 964.
Trade-marks usually exhibit some peculiar device, vignette,
or symbol, in addition to the name of the party, which the
proprietor had a perfect right to appropriate, and which, as
well as the name, is intended as a declaration to the public

Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING

CO. V.

TRAINER.

that the article is his property. Imitators frequently drop both
the name and certain parts of the surroundings, and substitute
their own name with a different vignette; but if the peculiar
device is copied, and so copied as to manifest a design of misleading the public, the omission or variation ought to be wholly
disregarded.
Proof of an intention to defraud is not required; but it is
plain that the respondents acted with a design, and it would
be absurd to suppose that they had no further object than the
mere imitation of the trade-mark which they copied. On the
contrary, it is obvious that they expected to gain an advantage
in the sale of their goods by attaching their simulated device
to fabrics resembling in appearance and quality the fabric of
the complainants.
Of course they meant to secure to their
goods a preference in the market which they otherwise would
not have commanded; and it is difficult, if not impossible, to see
how any such advantage could be gained unless the simulated
trade-mark would enable them to sell their fabrics as that of
the injured party. Amosceag 1]fanufaeturing Co. v. Spear,
supra; .Fetridge v. Wells, 13 How. (N. Y.) Pr. 386.
Proprietors of a trade-mark, in order to bring" the same
under the protection of a court of equity, are not obliged to
prove that it has been copied in every particular by the wrongdoer. It is enough for them to show that the representations
employed bear such resemblance to their symbol or device as
to be calculated to mislead the public who are purchasers of
the article, and to make it pass for the one sold by the true
owner of the trade-mark. Walton v. Crowley, 3 Blatchf. 440447.
Candid men cannot read the record in this case without
being forced to the conclusion that the respondents took the
essential feature of the complainants' trade-mark, which they
had used for forty years to designate the fabric of ticking
which they manufactured, and which had become known
throughout the United States as the authorized symbol to
indicate that description of goods; and if so, it follows to a
demonstration that the decree of the Circuit Court should be
reversed.

