726

UNITED STATES

V. KIMBALL.

[Sup. Ct.

justice if a decree could be made at once against the undertakers, as is done against stipulators in admiralty proceedings.
But we find no precedent for such a course upon a bond or
undertaking given by way of indemnity in proceedings at
common law or in chancery, unless it be expressly so stipulated
in the instrument, or unless the parties enter into a recognizance, which is matter of record.
Our conclusion, therefore, is, that the decree of the Supreme
Court of the district must be reversed, and the cause remanded
with instructions to enter a personal decree in favor of the
complainant against the defendant Gilbert, for the amount of
$4,020, with interest and costs; and that execution issue thereon;
and further, to decree that the lien claimed by the complainant
was a valid lien at the commencement of this suit; but that,
by reason of the undertaking filed in the cause, the buildings
and lots mentioned in the pleadings became released and discharged from the lien; and that the complainant have leave to
proceed at once upon said undertaking in an action of law to
be brought for that purpose; also, that the complainant have
a decree for the costs against the defendants Gilbert, Boughton
& Moore, and the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company of Hartford; and it is

So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. KIMBALL.

1. A collector of internal revenue, when sued on his bond for the balance of
taxes charged to 1dm under sect. 3218, Rev. Stat., is entitled to a credit for
all uncollected taxes he transferred to his successor, if he proves that he
used due diligence to collect them.
2. The certificate of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, that the collector
used such due diligence, is a condition precedent to the allowance of a credit
on the books of the treasury by the First Comptroller, before the suit was
brought, but not to a defence upon the trial.
3. The rejection by the Commissioner of a claim for such credit presented by
the collector entitles the latter, when sued for such taxes, to prove his
claim.

ERROr to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.

Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. KIMBALL.

727

This was an action brought by the United States upon the
bond of a collector of internal revenue. The breach assigned
was his failure to pay over the balance alleged to be due July
1, 1871, for stamps and other property transmitted to him by
the proper officers of the government, and for public moneys
which he had collected.
The plaintiff put in evidence a certified account from the
books of the Treasury Department showing the balance due.
It appears that, on going out of office, the collector turned over
to his successor a list of uncollected taxes to that amount.
Evidence was introduced tending to show that he had used
due diligence to collect them, and applied to the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue for a credit to the amount of them. His
claim to a credit was rejected by that officer.
The court charged the jury, in substance, that the collector,
having made an unsuccessful application to the proper department for the credit, had a right to make claim therefor
on the trial, if under the law and the facts he was entitled
to it.
The court refused to instruct the jury that the receipt of the
collector's successor in office showing such lists was not entitled to weight as evidence, unless accompanied by the certificate of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or the First
Comptroller of the Treasury, that due diligence had been used
by the collector; and as no such certificate was offered in the
case, the receipt should be disregarded by the jury.
The United States excepted to the charge given and to that
refused. Judgment was rendered for the defendant, and the
United States sued out this writ.
Mr. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
In a suit against a collector of internal revenue on his bond
for a balance of taxes charged to him under the provisions of
sect. 3218, Rev. Stat., he is entitled to a credit for all uncollected taxes transferred by him to his successor in office, if he
proves that due diligence was used by him for their collection.

MEYER V. HORNBY.

[Sup. Ot.

The certificate of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is a
condition precedent to a credit by the First Comptroller of the
Treasury before suit, but not to a defence upon the facts if a
suit is brought.
The presentation to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
by a collector of a claim for credit in his account, and its rejection by him, is such a presentation of the claim "to the
accounting officers of the treasury for their examination," and
disallowance by them, as will permit the collector, under sect.
951, Rev. Stat., to make proof of his claim in a suit brought
against him by the United States to collect what is due from
him on his account.
J"udgment affirmed.

MEYER v. HOR.NBY.
1. The ruling in Brooks v. Railway Company (supra,p. 443), that work done by a

contractor upon a part of a railroad then in process of construction entitles
his lien, under the laws of Iowa, to precedence over that of a prior mortgage
upon the entire road, reaffirmed.

2. The contractor was a stockholder in a construction company, which, when it
placed on the market the bonds secured by the mortgage, gave a guaranty
that the local subscriptions and grants would be sufficient to prepare the
road for the reception of the rails, and also undertook to make good any
deficiency. Held, that he was not thereby estopped from setting up his
lien, as against the mortgagee.
3. If the holders of the bonds sustained any loss by reason of the guaranty, the
company which gave it is liable in damages.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. James Grant and Mr. Joseph H. Choate for the appellants.
Mr. James T. Lane for the appellee.
MR. JusTIcE MrLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Appellants, as trustees in a railroad mortgage, brought suit
to foreclose it, and made Hornby a defendant. He set up a claim

