Oct. 1879.]

JEFFREY V. MORAN.

are familiar to all classes, grades, and occupations; and that the
popular or received import of words furnishes the general rule
for the interpretation of public laws as well as of private transactions. The court added, that if it could be conceded that, in
the opinion of mercantile men, shawls were not considered
wearing-apparel, it would still remain to be proved that this
opinion was sustained by the judgment of the community generally, or that the legislature designed a departure from the
natural and popular acceptation of language. The case was
rested on the basis that "wearing-apparel" was not a technical term. Much less is the phrase, goods "of a similar description."
Upon the whole, therefore, we think there was no error in
the charge of the judge in the court below.
Judqment affirmed.

JEFFREY v.

oAN.

A railroad company in Ohio was reorganized under a statute of that State of
April 11, 1861, the sixth section of which provides as follows : "The lien of
the mortgages and deeds of trust authorized to be made by this act shall be
subject to the lien of judgments recovered against said corporation,- after
its reorganization, -for labor thereafter performed for it, or for materials or
supplies thereafter furnished to it, or for damages for losses or injuries thereafter suffered or sustained by the misconduct of its agents, or in any action
founded on its contracts, or liability as a common carrier thereafter made or
incurred." The new company executed, April 1, 1864, a mortgage on its
road to secure the payment of the principal and interest of certain bonds.
Default having been made in the payment of the interest, a foreclosure suit
was instituted, and a decree rendered whereunder a sale of the road was
made, which was reported to the court Dec. 2, 1869, and on that day confirmed. The proceeds of the sale were less than the mortgage debt. A. was
killed on the road June 22, 1866. His administrator, in a court in one of the
counties through which the road passed, recovered, Feb. 28, 1871, judgment
against the company for $5,000. In November, 1875, he became a party to
the foreclosure suit, and claimed payment out of such proceeds. Held,
1. That by the law of Ohio a judgment is a lien from " the first day of the
term at which the judgment is rendered," and as before that day the road
had been sold and the sale confirmed, no lien by the judgment existed.
2. That there being no lien at law upon the road, there could be none in
equity upon the fund arising from the sale.

JEFFREY V. MORAN.

[Sup. ct.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. S. T. Crawford and Mr. Thomas S. Young for the appellant.

Mr. H. A. 'Daughertj, contra.
MR. JUStioB SWAYffE delivered the opinion of the court.

A corporation existed in Ohio known as the Cincinnati, Wilmington, and Zanesville Railroad Company. It owned and
operated a road extending from the city of Zanesville to the
village of Morrow in that State. The company became insolvent, and the road was sold on the 3d of June, 1863, under
foreclosure proceedings upon a mortgage which the company
had given. Charles Moran became the purchaser in trust for
the creditors and stockholders. The original company was reorganized on the 11th of March, 1864, pursuant to a statute of
the State of April 11, 1861, under the name of the Cincinnati
and Zanesville Railroad Company. On the 12th of March,
1864, Moran conveyed to the new company, which thereupon
executed to him and W. Shall a mortgage to secure the payment of the principal and interest of certain bonds therein
described. This mortgage bore date on the 1st of April, 1864.
Default having been made in the payment of the interest accruing on these bonds, Moran, on the 30th of April, 1869, filed
a bill of foreclosure in the court below. On the 4th of May
following, the road was put by the court into the charge of the
officers of the company as receivers. On the 6th of October
then next, a final decree was entered, finding the amount due,
and ordering the premises to be sold unless it was paid within
twenty days.
On the 2d of December following a sale was reported, and
on the same day it was confirmed by the court. The proceeds
of the sale were largely less than the amount intended to be
secured by the mortgage. On the 22d of June, 1866, Zentmeyer, the appellant's intestate, was killed on the road. On
the 16th of July, 1867, the appellant, as his administrator,
sued the company in the Court of Common Pleas of Clinton
County, through which the road passes, and on the 28th of

Oct. 1879.]

JEFFREY V. MORAI.

February, 1871, he recovered a judgment for $5,000. On the
5th of November, 1875, he was made a party, to the proceedings in the foreclosure case. He thereupon answered and filed
a cross-bill, in the nature of a creditor's bill, claiming to have
the judgment paid out of the proceeds of the sale of the road
in the hands of Moran. The court decreed against him, and
he appealed to this court.
Several objections have been taken to the claim of the crossbill by the counsel for the respondent, which the view we take
of the case renders it unnecessary to consider.
The counsel for the appellant have pressed upon our attention certain provisions of the mortgage under which the road
was sold. We think it too clear to require discussion, that
they have no application to the point upon which the case
must turn. We shall, therefore, pass them by without further
remark.
The mortgage was executed under the act before mentioned,
of April 11, 1861, and was subject to its provisions. The sixth
section of that act is as follows :"The lien of the mortgages and deeds of trust authorized to be
made by this act shall be subject to the lien ofjudgments recovered
against said corporation - after its reorganization - for labor thereafter performed for it, or for materials or supplies thereafter furnished to it, or for damages for losses or injuries thereafter suffered
or sustained by the misconduct of.its agents, or in any action founded
on its contracts, or liability as a common carrier thereafter made or
incurred."
By the law of Ohio, a judgment is a lien upon all "the
lands and tenements of the debtor within the county where
the judgment is entered, from the first day of the term at
which judgment is rendered, . ..but judgments by confession,
and judgments rendered at the same term at which the action
is commenced, shall bind such lands only from the day on
which such judgments are rendered." 2 Rev. Stat. of Ohio,
Swan & Cr. 1064. If execution shall not be sued out within
five years from the date of the judgment, the latter becomes
dormant and the lien expires. Id. 1067. Judgment liens are
the creatures of positive law, without which they cannot exist.

JEPFREY V. MORAN,

[Sup. Ct.

A State may regulate them as it deems proper. Corwin v.
Benham, 2 Ohio St. 36. When this judgment was rendered,
there was no real estate of any kind in Clinton County belonging to the railroad company. The roadway and all its appurtenances had been sold to Moran under the decree upon the
mortgage, and the sale confirmed more than a year before that
time: Thereafter the relation of the property to the company
was in all respects as if the company had never owned it. A
lien by the judgment was, therefore, impossible.
There being no such lien at law upon the road, there could
be none in equity touching the fund arising from the sale.
Otcott v. Bynum (17 Wall. 44), cited by the learned counsel
for the appellant, does not, therefore, affect the case.
The counsel would have us give the same construction to the
terms "the lien of judgments recovered against the corporation," as if they were "valid claims against the corporation,"
&c. The language of the statute is clear and explicit. It has
a specific meaning in the jurisprudence of Ohio, and seems to
have been chosen, ex industria,to express exactly the category
it defines. There is as much difference with respect to the
property between a claim secured by a judgment lien, and one
not so secured, as there is between a demand secured by mortgage, and one not secured at all. In such cases the mortgage
and the judgment lien are equivalents. In both the binding
effect is the same, and the law prescribes the consequences.
Here, if the lien had subsisted, though junior in date, it "would
have had priority over the mortgage. The latter was subject to
the statute, and the statute would have given to the lien that
effect. No reasoning can successfully maintain that a claim
merely in judgment and a judgment lien are the same thing in
legal effect, any more than in fact. To hold otherwise would
be to make the law, and not simply to apply it. The former is
beyond the sphere of our authority, the latter is our duty. It
is only".vhen a claim has ripened into a judgment where there
is property to be bound by it, that a lien can subsist. This
element is indispensable under the law to such a result. If
the legislature intended that a judgment - not a lien on the
mortgaged premises - should have the same effect as one
that was such lien, it would have been easy to say so, and

Oct. 1879.]

PACIFIC R.R. v. KETCHUM.

this would doubtless have been done. No word stretching or
bending can make the language employed touch the fund in
dispute.
It does not appear that the foreclosure sale, from which Moran derived title, was made in the process of another reorganization under the statute. If this were so, the last clause of the
first section would control the rights of the parties. It is there
declared that "every such agreement" [for reorganization]
"shall provide that the unsecured debts of the company incurred-for repairs or running expenses shall be paid in money
or bonds of the reorganized company, as hereinafter provided;
said bonds to be of the highest class issued. A copy of the
terms of said agreement shall be filed in said court before the
rendition of said decree." But as the mortgagees did not avail
themselves of the act, they are not bound by its requirements.
This clause, nevertheless, throws light upon the subject we
have been considering, and, therefore, we refer to it in that
connection
Decree affirmed.

PACIFIC RAILROAD v. KETCHUM.
1. An appdal will not be dismissed upon the ground that the decree from which
it was taken was rendered by consent; but no errors will be considered here
which were in law waived by such consent.
2. A recital in the decree that it was assented to by the solicitor of one of the
parties is equivalent to a direct finding that he had authority to do what he
did, and, so far as the question is one of fact only, is binding upon this
court on appeal.
3. The ruling in Remnoval Cases (100 U. S. 457), on the second section of the act
of March 3,1876 (18 Stat., part 3, 470), stated and declared to be applicable
to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, as the same is prescribed by the
9
first section of that act.
4. For the purpose of an appeal, this court need not inquire when the Circuit
Court first obtained jurisdiction of the suit. It is sufficient if that court
had jurisdiction when the decree appealed from was rendered.
5. The purchase by the solicitor of a railroad company of its property at a judicial sale, made pursuant to a decree in a foreclosure suit, is not of itself
necessarily invalid. It will, however, be closely scrutinized, but until
impeached must stand.
19
VOL. X1.

