[Sup. CL.

WHITNEY V. WYMAN.

of costs and damages rendered and to be rendered in case the
decree shall be affirmed in said Supreme Court."
The object of the statutory requirement undoubtedly is to
secure to the opposite party his damages and costs, in case the
judgment or decree shall not be reversed, and that, we think,
is the legal effect of this bond. If, on the final disposition of a
writ of error or appeal, the judgment or decree brought under
review is not substantially reversed, it is affirmed and the writ
of error or appeal has not been prosecuted with effect. In our
opinion the language of the bond covers fully all the requirements
of the statute. The motions to dismiss the appeal and vacate
the supersedeas are, therefore, overruled.
The appellee has coupled with a motion to dismiss, a motion,
under Rule 6, to affirm, because it is manifest that the appeal
was taken for delay only. Clearly this is not a case for the
application of that rule.

Motions denied.

WB=Imy V. WYMNE.
1. Where a party who discloses his principal and is known to be acting as an
agent, enters as such into a contract, he is not liable thereon in the absence
of his express agreement to be thereby bound.
2. Where a corporation, organized pursuant to the provisions of a statute, but
before its articles of association were filed with the county clerk, entered
into a contract for certain machinery to enable it to carry on its business.
Held, that its subsequent recognition of the validity of the contract, was
binding upon it although the statute declares that a corporation so organized shall not commence business before such articles are so filed.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

fr. J.W. Champlin for the plaintiff in error.
Mr.Mitchell J. Smiley, contra.
MR. JusTicE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought to recover the value of certain

Oct. 1879.]

WHITNEY V. WYMAN.

machinery manufactured by Whitney, which he alleged he had
sold and delivered to Wyman and the other defendants.
The defendants insisted that they had contracted for and received the machinery in behalf of a corporation of which they
were officers, and that hence were not personally liable.
The plaintiff lived in Massachusetts and the defendants in
Michigan.
The latter addressed a letter to the former, which was as
follows: "GRAN

IAvE, Feb. 1, 1869.

"BAxT n WmTNEY,ESQ., Winchenden, Mass.:
"Sin, -Our company being so far organized, by direction of the
officers, we now order from you, manufactured and shipped, at as
early date as possible-for the manufacture of the Mellish fruit
basket-I large rounding lathe, 1 quart do. do., 2 lathes for peach
basket bottoms, 3 do. do. quart do. do., pint do. do. Also the necessary small fixtures for clasping, &c., of which Mr. Whitney is
advised, and will give you more definite order.
"C ARIES WYMAN,
"EDWARD P. FERRY.
" CARLTON L. STORES,
"Prudential Committee Grand Haven Fruit Basket Co."

To which the plaintiff replied:

-

"WnvwomN n, MAss., Feb. 10, 1863.
"GRAND HAVEN FRUIT BASKET CO PANY:
"GENTLEmEN, - Yours of the 1st inst. is received, in which you
order machinery for fruit baskets, &c. I had already anticipated
your order by commencing on the machinery on Mr. Whitney's
verbal order, and I am now driving it with all the force I can
get on it.
"Yours respectfully,
BAxTun D. W=TNY."
The plaintiff wrote further, as follows :
"WnCHEN-DE, April 14, 1869.
"MESSRS. 0. E. WmxAi_, E. P. FERRY, C. L. STORRS:
SG;NTS,- I herewith send bill of machinery ordered by you
Feb. 1st, and have drawn on you at sight for the amount, $6,375.
The machinery was delayed two days in order to get into one of
the blue line cars. It has gone from the depot nowand I have to send

WHITNEY V. WYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

to Fitchburg for through bill of lading, which I expect to-night, and
will forward it as soon as I procure it.
"Yours respectfully,

BAXTER D.

WmTNRY."

The plaintiff charged the defendants individually on his
books for the machinery. His draft was protested, and he
thereupon wrote as follows: " WncHENDEN, Miss., May 14, 1869.
"MEssRs. CHART S E. WYMA, EDWARD P. FzRRY, CARELTON
L. STORS:
"GENTS, - I have just received notice of protest of my draft on

you. Reason given, machinery not arrived. I doubt not the machinery has arrived before now, and if so, I hope you will forward
me draft on New York at once. I need the money very much,
from the fact that parties here on which I relied for money have
been burned out and they are unable to pay me at present.
"Yours respectfully,
BAXTER D. WHiTNRYz."
The last two letters were not answered.
The machinery was delivered at Grand Haven, and the
freight was paid by Edward P. Ferry as the treasurer of the
corporation. The draft of Baxter was protested, because it was
addressed to the drawees individually. They claimed that he
had no right so to draw on them.
The corporation was organized under a statute of Michigan
which authorized mining and manufacturing companies to be
created pursuant to its provisions. It took the name of "The
Grand Haven Fruit Basket Company."
On the 5th of January, 1869, thirty-two stockholders, including the defendants, subscribed the articles of association
and acknowledged their execution before a notary public.
On the 21st of the same month there was a meeting of the
stockholders, at which a code of by-laws was adopted. It provided for the election of seven directors, and of a president,
secretary, and treasurer; and that the directors should elect
out of their number one who, with the president and treasurer,
should be a prudential committee, and that the committee
should be charged with such duties as might be devolved upon
it by the board of directors. The defendants and four others
were elected directors.

Oct.1879.]

WHITNEY V. WYMAN.

On the 25th of the same month the board of directors elected
the defendant Storrs president, the defendant Ferry treasurer,
and the defendant Wyman for the third member of the prudential committee.
The articles of association were filed with the Secretary of
State on the 19th of February, 1869, and with the county
clerk on the 12th of May following. The statute declares that
they shall be so filed before the corporation shall commence
business. The notary public who certified the acknowledgment of the articles was himself a subscriber, and his name is
included in his certificate. It was proved, by parol evidence,
that the directors authorized the prudential committee to contract for the machinery.
The corporation received the machinery, bought an engine
to run it, manufactured baskets with it, and carried on the
business until some time in the year 1870.
On the 3d of March, 1870, Lyman and Fairbanks, two of
the directors, were authorized to settle with the plaintiff on the
best terms they could obtain.
The court instructed the jury in substance, that the letter
of the prudential committee of Feb. 1, 1870, bound the corporation and not the defendants, if there was then a corporation
and the defendants were authorized by it to give the order, and
that if the corporation had acted as such and exercised its
franchises, then it was a corporation de facto, and that in such
case any irregularity in its organization was immaterial.
The plaintiff excepted to these instructions, and took numerous other exceptions in the course of the trial, which are set
forth in the record.
The jury found for the defendants; and judgment having
been entered for them, Whitney removed the case here.
Where the question of agency in making a contract arises
there is a broad line of distinction between instruments under
seal and stipulations in writing not under seal, or by parol.
In the former case the contract must be in the name of the
principal, must be under seal, and must purport to be his deed
and not the deed of the agent covenanting for him. Stanton
v. Camnp, 4 Barb. (N. Y.) 274.
In the latter cases the question is always one of intent; and

WHITNEY V. WYMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

the court, being untrammelled by any other consideration, is
bound to give it effect. As the meaning of the law-maker is
the law, so the meaning of the contracting parties is the agreement. Words are merely the symbols they employ to manifest
their purpose that it may be carried into execution. If the
contract be unsealed and the meaning clear, it matters not how
it is phrased, nor how it is signed, whether by the agent for
the principal or with the name of the principal by the agent
or otherwise.
The intent developed is alone material, and when that is
ascertained it is conclusive. Where the principal is disclosed,
and the agent is known to be acting as such, the latter cannot
be made personally liable unless he agreed to be so.
Looking at the letter of the defendants of the 1st of February, 1869, and the answer of the plaintiff of the 10th of that
month, we cannot doubt as to the understanding and meaning
of both parties with respect to the point in question.
The former advised the latter of the progress made in organizing the corporation; that the order was given by the direction of its officers, and the letter is signed by the writers as the
"Prudential Committee of the Grand Haven Fruit-basket Co.,"
which was the name in full of the corporation. The plaintiff
addressed his reply to the "Grand Haven Fruit-basket Company," thus using the name of the corporation as the party
with whom he knew he was dealing, and omitting the names of
the defendants, and their designation as a committee, according to the style they gave themselves in their letter.
It seems to us entirely clear that both parties understood
and meant that the contract was to be, and in fact was, with
the corporation, and not with the defendants individually.
The agreement thus made could not be afterwards changed
by either of the parties without the consent of the other.
Utley, v. Donaldson, 94 U. S. 29.
But it is said the corporation at the date of these letters was
forbidden to do any business, not having then filed its articles
of association, as required by the statute.
To this objection there are several answers.
The corporation subsequently ratified the contract by recognizing and treating it as valid.

Oct. 1879.]

ALDRIDGE V. MUIRHEAD.

This made it in all respects what it would have been if the
requisite corporate power had existed when it was entered into.
Angell & Ames, Corp., sect. 804 and note.
The corporation having assumed by entering into the contract
with the plaintiff to have the requisite power, both parties are
estopped to deny it. Id. sect. 635 and note.
The restriction imposed by the statute is a simple inhibition. It did not declare that what was done should be void,
nor was any penalty prescribed. No one but the State could
object. The contract is valid as to the plaintiff, and he has
no right to raise the question of its invalidity. .NationalBank
v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621.
The instruction given by the court to the jury with respect
to acts of user by the corporation in proof of its existence was
correct. If there was any error, it was in favor of the plaintiff. Angell & Ames, Corp., sect. 635.
The record shows clearly that the plaintiff was not entitled
to recover, and that the verdict and judgment are right. We,
therefore, forbear to examine the other assignments of error.
Conceding that all the exceptions to which they relate were
well taken, the errors could have done him no harm. Barth
v. Olise, Sheriff, 12 Wall. 400.
cudgment affirmed.

ALDEiDGE V. MUIRHEAD.
1. Where lands in New Jersey, paid for out of the separate estate of a married
woman are conveyed to her, she is considered to be the owner of them, as
if she were afeme sole.
2. Under the laws of that State the separate property of a woman may, with her
consent, be managed by her husband, without necessarily subjecting to the
claims of his creditors it, or the proceeds which by reason of his management arise therefrom.

AiPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of New Jersey.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

