112

MARKET

Co. v. HOFFMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

those for whom it exists, and of those by whom it is administered. Corruption is always the forerunner of despotism.
In Trist v. Child (supra), while recognizing the validity of an
honest claim for services honestly rendered, this court said:
"But they are blended and confused with those which are
forbidden: the whole is a unit, and indivisible. That which is
bad destroys that which is good, and they perish together.
. . Where the taint exists it affects fatally, in all its parts,
the entire body of the contract. In all such cases potior conditio defendentis.. Where there is turpitude, the law will help
neither party." These remarks apply here. The contract is
clearly illegal, and this action was brought to enforce it. This
conclusion renders it unnecessary to consider the plaintiff's
other assignments of error. The case being fundamentally
and fatally defective, he could not recover. Conceding all his
exceptions, other than those we have considered, to be well
taken, the errors committed could have done him no harm, and
opposite rulings would have done him no good. In either view,
these alleged errors are an immaterial element in the case.
Barth v. (lise, Sheriff, 12 Wall. 400.
Judgment afyirmed.
*

MARKET COMrPANY V. HOFFmAx.
1. Pursuant to the authority conferred by its charter, granted by an act of Congress approved May 20, 1870 (16 Stat. 124), the Washington Market Com.
pany offered to the highest bidder at public auction the stalls in the market
for a specific term, subject to the payment of a stipulated annual rent. At
the expiration of that term, A., one of such bidders, filed his bill to enjoin the company from selling the stall leased to him, claiming that he
had the right to occupy it as long as he chose in carrying on his business
as a butcher, provided that lie thereafter paid the rent as it from time to
time should become due. Held, that A.'s right of occupancy ceased with

the term. and that the company had the right to offer the stall for sale
to the highest bidder.
2. Where a number of bidders filed such a bill, the value of the right to sell,
which the company claimed and the court below denied, determines the
jurisdiction here. Where, therefore, a sale which would have produced
more than $2,500 was enjoined by the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, the company is entitled to an appeal, under the act of Feb. 25,
1879. 20 Stat. 320.

Oct. 1879.]

MARKET CO. V. HOFFMAN.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
OIr. William Birneyj for the appellant.
0Ir. Riciard T. 3Ierriek for the appellee.
AIR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill originally brought by James A. Hoffman
against the Washington Market Company, praying for an
injunction against the company's proceeding to sell a stall in
their market, occupied by him, and for a decree establishing
his right to retain possession of said stall so long as he chose
to occupy it for his business as a butcher. Subsequently the
bill was amended by consent, and two hundred and five occupants of other stalls in the market were made complainants
with him. The relief then asked was an injunction in favor
of each complainant, together with a decree establishing the
right of each to the continued occupancy of his stall so long as
lie might choose to occupy it for his business. After hearing,
the court by a final decree enjoined the company from selling,
or offering for sale, the stands and stalls of the several complainants, or any of them, and also adjudged that the rights of
the complainants in their several stalls and stAnds did not expire, by any valid limitations of the time for the continuance
of such rights and interest, in two years from July 1, 1872.
From this decree the company appealed.
The first question to be determined is whether the amount
in controversy is sufficient to give us jurisdiction of the appeal.
Upon this we have no doubt. While it may be true, that if
Hoffman was the sole complainant, the amount in controversy
would be insufficient to justify an appeal either by him or the
company, the case is one of two hundred and six complainants
suing jointly, the decree is a single one in favor of them all,
and in denial of the right claimed by the company, which is
of far greater value than the sum which, by the act of Congress, is the limit below which an appeal is not allowable.
It is averred under oath in the pleadings that the sale which
the company proposed to make, and the court below enjoined,
would have realized to the company more than $60,000. Of
VOL. x.

8

MARKET CO. v. HOFFMAN.

[Sup. ot.

this benefit the decree deprives them. It is very plain, therefore, that the appeal is one within our jurisdiction.
Dismissing this, we come directly to the merits of the case.
The company, chartered by an act of Congress approved May
20, 1870 (16 Stat. 124), was authorized to erect upon a lot
belonging to the United States a market-house with stalls.
By the second section of the act it was enacted as follows: "And the said company shall, whenever any part or parts of
said buildings, stalls, stands, and so forth, for market purposes, are
ready for use or occupancy, offer the same for sale at public auction, for one or more years, to the highest bidder or bidders, subject
to the payment of an annual rent, the amount of which to be fixed
by the mayor and common council of the city of Washington and
the directors of this incorporation" [a prescribed public notice being
given], "amfnd all subsequent sales and leases thereof shall be made
on similar notice and in the same manner.

. .

. The stalls, stands,

and privileges of all kinds, in said market, to be used for market
purposes, when offered at public sale, shall be let to the highest
bidder, and there shall be no bidding on the part of said company,
directly or indirectly; but said company, with the consent of the
mayor and aldermen of the city of Washington, may fix a minimum
rate of bids at such sale; and the person who shall offer the highest price, at or beyond such minimum, for any such stand, stall, or
privilege, shall be entitled to the occupation thereof, and shall be
considered as having the good-will and the right to retain the possession thereof so long as he chooses to occupy the same for his own
business and pay the rent therefor. . . . .Provided, however, that
such right to the possession of such stands or stalls may be sold
and transferred by such purchaser under regulations to be fixed by
the by-laws of said company, and, in the case of the death of such
purchaser during the existence of his lease, it shall be disposed of
as other personal property."
By sect. 14, the corporation was required to pay to the city
of Washington the sum of $25,000 annually, in consideration
of the privileges granted; and by sect. 12 it was provided that
at the expiration of thirty years the city of Washington might
take possession of the property, on paying a sum equal to a fair
valuation of the buildings and improvements. The property
was made to revert to the United States at the end of ninetynine years.

Oct. 1879.] ,

MARKET CO. V. HOFF.5AN.

Such were the provisions of the act of Congress that have
any bearing on the present case. In pursuance of the authority
given by the second section, the company, on the 25th of Mray,
1872, offered to the highest bidder, at public auction, the stalls
or stands in the market, for the term of two years from the
first day of July, 1872; and Hoffman, with the other complainants, or persons under whose bids they claim, became the highest bidders for the several stalls they occupy. They now insist
that they are entitled to hold the stalls thus bid off so long as
they may choose to occupy them for their own business and
pay the rent, notwithstanding the said term of two years has
expired, claiming that such are the rights given by the act of
Congress to the highest bidders at the auction.
We think this claim is quite unfounded. In our judgment,
it has no warrant in any reasonable construction of the charter.
The company was authorized and required to sell the privilege
of occupying a stall at public auction for a term, or, to use the
language of the act, "for one or more years ;" and subsequent
sales and leases were required to be made in the same manner.
The company was left at liberty to fix the length of the term.
They might sell for two years, or ten, or thirty, at their option,
but in all cases sales were required to be made for a definite
period. No authority was given to create a tenancy at will, a tenancy at the will of either the company or the bidder at
the sale. The prescription to sell "for one or more years"
negatives this. Had it been intended that the sale should confer upon the highest bidder the right to occupy a stall at his
will, and so long as he might use it for his business, those words
would not have been inserted in the statute. They would be
unmeaning; even more, they would have been contradictory
of the intent. It would have been sufficient to declare that the
stalls should be sold at public auction, and that the highest
bidder should have the right to hold so long as he chose to
occupy for his business and pay rent. We are not at liberty
to construe any statute so as to deny effect to any part of its
language. It is a cardinal rule of statutory construction that
significance and effect shall, if possible, be accorded to every
word. As early as in Bacon's Abridgment, sect. 2, it was said
that "a statute ought, upon the whole, to be so construed that,

MARKET

Co.

V. HOFFMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

if it can be prevented, no clause, sentence, or word shall be
superfluous, void, or insignificant." This rule has been repeated innumerable times. Another rule equally recognized is
that every part of a statute must be construed in connection
with the whole, so as to make all the parts harmonize, if possible, and give meaning to each.
Keeping these admitted rules of construction in view, the
clause in the charter which defines the rights of purchasers at
the sale, the clause upon which the complainants rely, is easily
understood. It declares in effect that the highest bidder for a
stall shall be considered as having the good-will, and the right
to retain possession thereof during his term, so long as he
chooses to occupy the same for his own business and pay the
rent therefor. The construction contended for by the complainants is obviously inconsistent with the direction that sales
of rights of occupancy should be made for a term; that is, for
one or more years. That construction, therefore, is not to be
admitted, if another reasonable one can be given. That the
clause (general as its language is) has some limitation will not
be questioned. It will not be claimed that it gives to the highest bidder at a sale for two years, or to his vendee or transferee
(for such bidder is authorized to assign), a perpetual right of
occupany so long as he pays the rent. If it does, the right
may outlast the time when by the charter the corporation of
Washington is empowered to take possession of the market
buildings and grounds, and even the time when the company's
rights ahd property are to revert to the United States. To
understand the true meaning of the clause, it is necessary to
observe what the subject was in regard to which Congress
attempted to legislate. In Brewer's Lessee v. Blougher (14
Pet. 78), it was said to be the undoubted duty of the court to
ascertain the meaning of the legislature from words used in
the statute, and the subject-matter to which it relates, and
to restrain its operation within narrower limits than its words
import, if the court is satisfied that the literal meaning of its
language would extend to cases which the legislature never
designed to include in it. Now, the subject upon which Congress attempted by this clause to legislate was the rights of the
highest bidder for a stall, under a purchase for a term of years,

Oct. 1879.]

MARKET 00. V. HOFFMAN.

and not the rights of a purchaser under a bid for an indefinite
period, terminable only at his will. Nothing else was in view
of the legislature. No other sale had been spoken of. The
enactment, therefore, that he should have the good-will and
possession of the stall so long as he might choose to occupy it,
paying rent, must have reference to possession during the term,
for that was the only subject under consideration. Such a construction of the clause gives effect to it, denies effect to no
other words or provisions in the statute, and is in strict harmony with every part. It is the only construction that
harmonizes all the provisions of the act. And it is a construction which in a very important particular is beneficial to
the highest bidders at the sale. The clause not only declares
that the highest bidder above a fixed minimum shall by his
bid become entitled to the possession, which had not been
declared previously in the act, but it impliedly relieves him
from what might, without it, have proved an onerous burden.
The stalls in this case were sold for two years. The market
company might have sold them for twenty, or even thirty.
Such authority was given by the statute. Had they done so,
the purchaser of a stall would have been bound to pay the
stall-rent during the whole period, of twenty or thirty years,
whether he occupied the stall or not, were it not for this provision, and in case of his death his estate would have been
liable. To guard against this, his right under his bid to retain
the occupany is declared to continue so long as he chooses to
occupy for his own business, and pay the rent, clearly implying
that when, during the period for which he bought, he chooses
to give up the occupancy and cease to pay the rent, his liability
ceases. In other words, the company is bound to permit his
occupancy during the term which was sold, but the bidder
is not bound absolutely to pay rent during the whole term,
nor longer than he chooses to occupy the stall for his own
business.
To our minds, therefore, it appears clearly that, under the
true and reasonable construction of the act of Congress, the
complainants below acquired by the bids made at the auction
sale in 1872 no right to more than two years' occupancy of
their several stalls, and no right to continue in possession

118

MARKET CO. V. HOFFMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

thereof after July 1, 1874. Our conclusion is supported by
several other considerations. In the second section of the act
it is enacted that in case of the death of any purchaser at the
auction sale, "during the continuance of his lease," his right
to the possession of his stall should be sold as other personal
property. The words, "durin g the continuance of his lease,"
indicate strongly that Congress contemplated and intended
that what was sold at the auction should be a term of years,
with fixed limits of duration. Else why speak of the existence
of a lease and its continuance?
We may add that the contemporaneous understanding of the
parties was in harmony with the construction of the statute we
now give. On the twenty-third day of May, 1872, the company
resolved to commence the sale of rights to occupy the stalls on
the twenty-fifth day of that month, in pursuance of previous
notice given; and resolved also that the sales should be of the
right to occupy for two years from July 1, 1872. On the same
day, May 23, 1872, the company adopted market regulations,
as they were authorized to do by their charter. Among these
regulations were the following: Rent shall be payable quarterly in advance. No person shall be allowed to occupy a stall,
or stand, until he has signed the market regulations, and has
received a permit describing the character of his stall or stand,
and the conditions of occupancy. At the end of the term of
each occupant he shall quit and deliver up his stand peaceably,
in as good order and condition, except ordinary wear, as the
same now is, or may be put into by the company. With such
regulations in force the sales were made, and a permit was
delivered to each purchaser, declaring him entitled to occupy
his stall "for the term of two years from July 1, 1872, paying
therefor the quarterly rent in advance, subject to the conditions
of the charter and by-laws of the company and the regulations
of the company; the permit to be of no effect until the holder
had signed the regulations."
Thus the claimants, or those
under whom they claimed, obtained possession, and thus they
engaged to surrender possession at the expiration of their term
of two years. It does not appear to have entered into the contemplation of the company, or the bidders at the sale, at that
time, that by the purchase a bidder obtained a possible right

Oct. 1879.]

9ROBERTS
v. BOLLES.

of occupancy for more than two years. The construction now
insisted upon by the complainants is an afterthought, a creature
of recent birth.
In view of the considerations thus presented, we are of opinion that the Supreme Court of the District erred in construing
the charter of the company, and sustaining the complainants'
bill. Of the cross-bill it is sufficient to say that it must fall
-with the bill of the complainants. This is conceded by the
appellants.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the District will be
reversed with costs, and the record remitted, with instructions
to dismiss both the bill and the cross-bill; and it is
So ordered.
AM. JUSTICE

BRADL-EY, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE

dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. I
think that it was the intent of the statute to give to the purchasers of stalls the benefit of the "good-will" acquired during the term, so long as they chose to keep them and pay the
rents originally fixed, or which might from time to time be
imposed by the common council.
HARLAN,

ROBERTS V. BOLLES.
1. By the statutes of Illinois, municipal bonds payable to bearer are transferable
by delivery, and the holder thereof can sue thereon in his own name.
2. The statute of that State of Mlarch 6, 1867, provides that the supervisor of a
town, if a majority of the legal voters thereof voting at an election to be
held for the purpose so authorized, shall subscribe for stock of a railroad
company in the name of the town, and issue its bonds in payment therefor,
and the fifth section declares that "no mistake in the giving of notice, or in
the canvass or return of votes, or in the issuing of the bonds, shall in any
way invalidate the bonds so issued, provided that there is a majority of the
votes at such election in favor of such subscription." An application in
due form for an election was signed by only twelve legal voters and taxpayers instead of twenty, and ten days' notice of the election instead of
twenty given. The election was held at the specified time, and a majority

