Oct. 1879.]

BABBITT

v.

FINN.

BABBITT V. FixN.
A., against whom a judgment in favor of B. was rendered in the District Court,
sued out of the Circuit Court a writ of error which was a supersedeas, by his
giving the requisite bond. The judgment having been affirmed, another bond
for a supersedras was executed and the cause removed here. The judgment
of thie
Circuit Court was affirmed. The original judgment remaining unpaid,
this action against the sureties to the first bond was brought. Held, 1. That
their liability was fixed by the judgment of the Circuit Court, and was not
diminished by the subsequent proceedings. 2. That they are not chargeable
with the costs incurred by reason of those proceedings. 3. That the issue of
an execution against A. was not essential to B.'s right to recover.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
Iarch 27, 1872, James C. Babbitt, assignee in bankruptcy
of E. Miller, recovered, in the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Missouri, a judgment for
$4,236.28, against Edward Burgess, who, on the 29th of
that month, sued out of the Circuit Court a writ of error, and
executed the requisite bond, with sureties, to render it a supersedeas.
This action was brought by Babbitt against John Finn and
John Shields, who were such sureties. The breach assigned in
the declaration is that "said Burgess did not prosecute said
writ to effect, nor answer all or any damages or costs on failing
to make good his said plea; but that said cause came on to be
heard in said Circuit Court during the March Term, A.D. 1873;
said Circuit Court, on the twenty-second day of March, 1873,
ordered and adjudged that the said judgment of said Disttict
Court be, and the same was .thereby, affirmed with costs;"
"that afterwards the said record of said cause was taken from
said Circuit Court to the Supreme Court of the United States
on a writ of error; on tbe 25th of October, 1875, it was duly
ordered and adjudged by said Supreme Court that the said
judgment of said Circuit Court be, and the same was thereby,
affirmed with costs, and that the said Babbitt, as such assignee,
recover against the said Burgess %5107.35
for his costs expended
in said cause in said Supreme Court."
The declaration further alleges that said judgment of said

BABBITT V. FINN.

[
[Sup.
Ct.

District Court is still in full force and effect, and is wholly
unpaid and unsatisfied, &c.
The defendants filed a demurrer, which was overruled. They
then answered, admitting the execution of the bond and the
first judgment of affirmance, and setting up that Burgess subsequently gave a new supersedeas bond, and removed the case
to this court, where the judgment of the Circuit Court was
affirmed; and that by such second bond "the judgment of said
Circuit Court was superseded, rendered inoperative, and vacated,
and defendants were for ever released and discharged from any
and all liability upon said bond sued on."
For a further defence, they averred that the plaintiff had
not sued out an execution against Burgess, or pursued the
sureties on the second bond, they being solvent.
To these affirmative defences the plaintiff demurred. His
demurrer was overruled. The plaintiff then filed a replication,
denying the new special matter set up. The court rendered
judgment for the defendants. The plaintiff then removed the
case here.
fIkr. Nathaniel Myers for the plaintiff in error.
1. The admission in the answer of the execution and breach
of the bond entitled the plaintiff to a judgment in his favor,
on the pleadings, unless the special matter pleaded by the
defendants constituted a valid defence.
2. The affirmance by the Circuit Court of the judgment of
the District Court fixed the liability of the sureties, and was
a breach of the condition to prosecute the writ of error with
effect. K~arthaus v. Owings, 6 Har. & J.(Md.) 134.
-3. The second writ of error did not annul that affirmance, or
discharge the sureties on the original supersedeas bond. -Dolby
v. Jones, 2 Dev. (N. C.) 109; Ashby v. Sharp, 1 Litt. (Ky.)
156; Jordanv. Agawam Woollen Co., 106 Mass. 571; Hinckley
v. Kreitz, 58 N.Y. 583 ; Smith v. Falconer,11 Hun (N. Y.), 481 ;
Gillette v. Bullard, 20 Wall. 571; Smith v. Crouse, 24 Barb.
(N. Y.) 433 ; Bichardsonv. Krap.f, 5 Daly (N. Y.), 385; Rev.
Stat., sect. 1000; Gardner v. Barney, 24 How. (N. Y.) Pr.
467 ; Robinson v. Plimpton, 25 N. Y. 484; Kellar v. Williams,
10 Bush (Ky.), 216; Brandenburgv. Flynn's Administrator,
12 B. Mon. (Ky.) 399; Pattersonv. Pope, 5 Dana (Ky.), 241.

Oct. 1879.]

BABBITT

v. FINN.

4. It was not necessary to sue out an execution against the
original judgment debtor. Smith v. Ranzsay, 6 Serg. & R.
(Pa.) 573; Wood v. 1Derrickson et al., 1 Hill (N. Y.), 410;
Tissot v. -Darling,9 Cal. 278; Smith v. Gaines, 93 U. S. 341;
Brandt, Sureties, sect. 404.
11Ir. Given Campbell, contra.
The only question for consideration is, Did the court err in
rendering judgment in favor of the defendants? and it is submitted on their behalf that it did not. The new bond when
the writ of error was sued out of this court operated as a supersedeas, and discharged the sureties on the bond given in the
District Court.
Such a bond is intended to secure the payment of the judgment, if the defendant fails in the Appellate Court. Rule 29,
Sup. Court; Evans v. Hardwick, 1 J. J. Marsh. (Ky.) 435;
Norris v. Barelay, &e., 3 id. 376; 11foore v. Grin, 2 Litt.
(Ky.) 186; Sumrall et al. v. Reid, 2 Dana (Ky.), 65.
It is with this view that it is required to be in double
the amount of that judgment. Shannon and Wife v. Spencer,
I Blackf. (Ind.) 120; .rorwood v. Martin, 3 Har. & John.
(Md.) 199 ; Parkerv. Hfannibal &. St. Jo Railroad (Jo., 44 Mo.
415.
This court must have had in view the fact that at common
law, sureties were not liable beyond the court for which they
stipulated, or the fourth and tenth rules in admiralty would
not have been so carefully framed.
The judgment of the Circuit Court, so far as it affected
the defendants as sureties on the first bond was vacated by
the subsequent proceedings, Payne v. Cowan, 17 Pick. (Mass.)
142; and an action of debt could not be maintained upon it.
Atkins v. Wyman, 45 Me. 399; Campbell v. Roward, 5 Mass.
376; Keen v. Turner, 13 id. 266; State of Ohio v. Commercial
Bank of Cincinnati,7 Ohio, 129; Clark Gale v. B. Butler, Jr.,
35 Vt. 449.
The original bond was not given to secure the judgment of
the Circuit Court when the cause was removed here. If that
bond remained in force, another in double the amount of that
judgment should* not be required, as no additional security,
except for costs, would be necessary to transfer the case here,

BABBITT V. FINN.

[Sup. Ct.

and stay proceedings during its pendency. Such is the course
in many of the circuits, in admiralty appeals, where stipulations
have been taken under rules 4 and 10.
After the second bond had been approved and a supersedeas
allowed, the Circuit Court had no longer the judgment in its
power. That bond stayed all proceedings, and precluded the
first bondsmen from fulfilling the condition of their bond.
Where property seized on execution has been released upon
a forthcoming bond, and before the day of sale mentioned
in that bond an appeal is taken, a bond for its due prosecution
discharges the sureties on the forthcoming bond.
A forthcoming bond discharges the lien arising from the
levy of an execution. Brown v. Clark, 4 How. 4; Freeman,
Judgments, sects. 380, 381.
The bond given for the release of an attachment discharges
the property from the lien of that writ. St. Louis Perpetual
Insurance Go. v. Ford, 11 Mo. 295; Suydan v. Huggeford, 23
Pick. (Mass.) 465.
In admiralty, a vessel libelled upon a lien claim is discharged from the lien when the requisite bond is delivered.
The latter is a substituted security, taking the place of the
vessel. A bond accepted by the court upon ordering the
delivery to the claimant of property seized in admiralty is, in
the subsequent proceedings, a substitute for the property.
lVnited States v. Ames, 99 U. S. 772. A second replevin bond
given and accepted discharges the first. Chancellor v. Van
Hook 4- Brooking, 2 B. Mon. (Ky.) 447.
These analogous cases are cited because authority upon the
exact question under consideration is not abundant. It is elementary learning, however, that there are no presumptions
against the defendants who, as sureties, have the right to stand
upon the very letter of their contract. A change for their
benefit without their consent releases them. Their obligation
vanishes with that of their principal, and their undertaking
was that he should be good for the judgment when rendered in
the Circuit Court, and that if he did not pay it then, or otherwise indemnify and satisfy the plaintiff, they would do so for
him. When he gave his bond for a writ of error and a supersedeas to this court, he did indemnify the plaintiff to his satis-

Oct. 1879.']

BABBITT v. FrNw.

faction, and secured the debt evidenced by that judgment. In
consideration of such indemnity and security, Burgess was
allowed to have his cause heard here, and all proceedings to
enforce the judgment were stayed.
It cannot be successfully contended that the defendants are
to be regarded as sureties to the plaintiff for the solvency of
the sureties on the subsequent bond, or for the continuing solvency of their principal. They might be willing to underwrite
his solvency until his cause should be decided in the Circuit
Court, but not for two years longer, when the action would be
pending in this court.
Such an extension of their liability would be making a new
and more onerous contract for them. It seems, therefore, that
the bond for the writ of error from this court is substituted
for that originally given, and exempts these defendants from
liability.
D delivered the opinion of the court.
Notice to the opposite party is required in every case when a
writ of error is sued out or an appeal is taken to remove a cause
into an appellate court, except when the appeal is allowed in
open court; and the provision is that every justice or judge
signing the citation, except in certain cases not material to
mention, shall take good and sufficient security that the plaintiff in error or appellant shall prosecute his writ or appeal to
effect; and if he fail to make his plea good, that he shall answer
all damages and costs where the writ is a supersedeas,or all
costs only where it does not supersede the execution. Rev.
Stat., sect. 1000.
It appears that the plaintiff as an assignee in bankruptcy
recovered judgment in the District Court against Edward
Burgess in the sum of 54,236.28 debt, and costs of suit.
Exceptions were filed by the defendant, and he sued out a
writ of error and removed the cause into the Circuit Court
for the same district to reverse the judgment. Sureties to
the bond were required to perfect the removal of the cause,
and the defendants in the present suit signed the bond as sureties of the principal, who is the party that sued out the writ of
error.
AIR. JUSTcIE CIrFFOr

BABBITT V. FINN.

[Sup. Ct.

Sufficient appears to show that the bond was duly approved
and the writ allowed, and that the cause was removed into the
Circuit Court for trial. Due notice was given to the plaintiff,
and it appears that the parties were there heard and that the
Circuit Court affirmed the judgment of the District Court, with
costs. Payment of the judgment having been refused, and it
appearing that the debtor had no property wherewith to satisfy
the execution, the judgment creditor, as plaintiff, instituted the
present suit against the defendants as the sureties of the principal, counting on the said bond as the cause of action.
None of these facts are controverted, and it appears that the
plaintiff in his declaration assigned as a breach of the bond that
the principal in the same did not prosecute his writ of error to
effect nor answer all or any damages or costs on failing to make
his plea good. Service was made; and certain proceedings followed that it is not important to notice, subsequent to which
the defendants filed an answer, in which they set up the defence that the defendant in that suit by writ of error removed
the judgment of the Circuit Court into the Supreme Court, and
gave a new supersedeas bond, with good and sufficient sureties,
to prosecute the appeal to the last-named court to effect; and
the defendants here aver that by force and effect of said lastnamed writ of error and bond the judgment of the Circuit
Court was superseded, rendered inoperative, and vacated, and
that the defendants in that bond thereby became released and
discharged from any and all liability on the bond which they
signed as sureties for their principal, it appearing that the
sureties on the last-named bond are solvent, and that the bond
is sufficient in amount to answer all damages and costs.
Responsive to those affirmative defences the plaintiff filed a
demurrer to the affirmative defences set up in the answer,
which was overruled by the court. Failing in that, the plaintiff filed a replication denying the new matters set up in the
answer, and the court, on motion of the defendants, rendered
judgment in their favor. Exceptions were filed by the plaintiff,
and he sued out the present writ of error.
Three errors are assigned in this court: 1. That the Circuit
Court erred in overruling the plaintiff's demurrer to the affirmative defences set up in the answer. 2. That the court erred

Oct. 1879.]

BABBITT v. FINN.

in rendering judgment for the defendants. 3. That the court
erred in not rendering judgment for the plaintiff.
Argument to show that the bond given in the District Court
to prosecute the appeal to effect and answer all damages and
costs was sufficient in form is unnecessary, as nothing is suggested to the contrary; nor is it necessary to enter into any
discussion to prove that the omission of the names of the
sureties in the introductory part of the bond does not affect its
validity, inasmuch as it appears that each signed and sealed the
instrument. Pequawkett Bridge v. 11lathes, 7 N. H. 230 ; Martin v. Dorteh, 1 Stew. (Ala.) 479; Johnson &' Cain v. Steamboat Lehigh, 13 Mo. 539 ; Brandt, Sureties, sect. 15; Cooke v.
Crawford, I Tex. 9.
Judgment was affirmed in the Circuit Court, and the rule is
universal that the affirmance of the judgment in the Appellate
Court fixes the liability of the sureties, as it shows conclusively
that the principal obligor did not prosecute his appeal to effect.
.Eartliausv. Owings, 6 Har. & Johns. (Md.) 134, 139.
Where the bond is given in a subordinate court to prosecute
an appeal to effect in a superior court, the sureties become liable if the judgment is affirmed in the superior court; nor are
they discharged in case the judgment of the superior court is
removed into a higher court for re-examination and a new bond
is given to prosecute the second appeal, if the judgment is
affirmed in the court of last resort. Nothing will discharge the
sureties given to prosecute the appeal from the court of original
jurisdiction, but the reversal of the judgment in some court
having jurisdiction to correct the alleged error. -Dolbyv. Jones,
2 Dev. (N. C.) L. 109; As1bby v. Shaqp, 1 Litt. (Ky.) 156;
Robinson v. Plimipton, 25 N. Y. 484; Smith v. Falconer, 11
Hun (N. Y.), 481; Gardnerv. Barney, 24 How. (N. Y.) Pr.
467-469; Snith v. Crouse, 24 Barb. (N. Y.) 433.
Sureties in a bond for an appeal from the special term to the
general term are fixed in their liability when the judgment
rendered in the special term is affirmed at the general term, but
such sureties are not liable for costs in the appeal from the general term to the Court of Appeals, as the costs of such an appeal
are not within the undertaldng of the sureties in a bond given
to prosecute the appeal from the special term to the general

BABBITT

v.

FINN.

[Sup. Ct.

term, from which it follows that the sureties in the bond to
prosecute the appeal from the general term to the Court of Appeals are alone responsible for such costs, without any claim for
contribution from the sureties in the bond given to prosecute
the appeal from the court of original jurisdiction to the general
term. .Hinckleyv. Kreitz, 58 N. Y. 583, 587.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
sureties in the bond given to prosecute the removal of the cause
in this case from the District Court to the Circuit Court became
fixed when the judgment rendered in the District Court was
affirmed; nor did the removal of the judgment of affirmance
rendered in the Circuit Court into the Supreme Court have
any effect whatever to diminish the liability of those sureties.
Certainly not, as the judgment rendered in the Circuit Court
-was affirmed in the Supreme Court.
Judgment having been rendered against the principal in the
bond in the District Court, and the condition of the bond being
that he, the principal, shall prosecute his appeal to effect and
answer all damages and costs if he fail to make his plea good,
it is difficult to see how it can be held that the sureties are
discharged when it is held both in the Circuit Court and the
Supreme Court that the judgment of the District Court is correct and that the judgment should be affirmed. Neither principle nor authority will support that theory, nor do they afford
it any countenance whatever. Jordan v. Agawam Woollen Co.,
106 Mass. 571.
Suppose that is so, still it is contended by the defendants that
they are not liable in a suit on the bond because the plaintiff did not as a preliminary proceeding sue out an execution
on the judgment and take proper steps to make the money.
Without more, the condition of the bond is a sufficient answer
to that defence, as it stipulates that if he, the principal, fails to
make his plea good, the obligors, principal and sureties, shall
answer all damages and costs, ,hich is quite enough to show
that it was not necessary that an execution should be sued out
on the judgment before a right of action would accrue to the
judgment creditors to enforce their remedy on the bond. As
between the obligors and obligees all the obligors are principal
debtors, though as between each other they may have the rights

Oct. 1879.]

BABBITT V. FINN.

and remedies resulting from the relation of principal and
surety.
It was the affirmance of the judgment that fixed the liability,
and inasmuch as the defendants bound themselves that the
principal should pay the judgment if he failed to make his plea
good, no such preliminary step is required. Gillette v. Bullard,
20 Wall. 571, 575; Tissot v. Darling,9 Cal. 278, 281; Smith v.
Ramsay, 6 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 573; Brandt on Sureties, sect. 404.
It is not necessary in order to charge the sureties in an appeal bond that an execution on the judgment recovered in the
Appellate Court should be issued against the principal. When
they execute the bond they assume the obligation that they will
answer all damages and costs if the principal fails to prosecute
his appeal to effect and make his plea good, from which it follows that if the judgment is affirmed by the Appellate Court,
either directly or by a mandate sent down to the subordinate
court, the sureties proprio vigore become liable to the same
extent as the principal obligor. Unless the bond contains some
special provisions to that effect, the sureties in such a bond
given in a common-law action do not become liable for the costs
incurred in consequence of a new appeal to a still higher court;
or, in other words, the sureties in a bond given in the District
Court to indemnify the opposite party on an appeal to the
Circuit Court are not liable for the costs incurred by a subsequent removal of the cause from the Circuit Court to the
Supreme Court, the rule being that in that court the plaintiff
in error or appellant must give a new bond; but it is equally
well settled that such new appeal will not diminish or discharge
the liability of his sureties on the bond given in the District
Court, unless the judgment rendered in the District Court is
wholly reversed.
Apply these suggestions to the case before the court and it
is clear that the Circuit Court gave judgment for the wrong
party.
The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded with
directions to sustain the demurrer of the plaintiff to the affirmative defences set up in the answer, and to render judgment in
favor of the plaintiff, in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.

