Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. HALL.

Lastly, the maxim, "ex turpi causa non oritur actio," applies
with full force. No court will lend its aid to a party who
founds his claim for redress upon an illegal act.
The Brazilian government was justified by the law of nations
in demanding the return of the captured vessel and proper
redress otherwise. It was due to its own character, and to the
neutral position it bad assumed between the belligerents in the
war then in progress, to take prompt and vigorous measures in
the case, as was done. The commander was condemned by
the law of nations, public policy, and the ethics involved in
his conduct.

-Decreeaffirmed.

NATIOxAL BANK v. HALL.
A., B., & Co., a firm engaged in selling live.stock on commission, authorized a
bank to cash drafts drawn on the firm by C., their agent, who forwarded livestock to them. Some controversy arising, A., B., & Co. wrote to the bank as
follows: "JAN. 15, 1876.
"Hereafter we will pay drafts only on actual consignments. We cannot advance
money a week in advance of shipment. The stock must be in transit so as to meet
dr'ft same day or the day after presented to us. This letter will cancel all previous
arrangement of letters of credit in reference to C."
The cashier of the bank replied as follows :-

"J'A. 17, 1876.
"Your favor of the 15th received. I note what you say. We have never knowingly advanced any money to C. on stock to come in. Have always supposed it was
in transit. After this we shall require ship'g bill."
There was no further communication on this subject between the parties.
Two clerks of A., B., & Co. who were aware of this correspondence became
partners without the knowledge of the bank, and the business was thereafter
carried on in the same name. C. continued to draw on the firm as before,
and the bank, without requiring bills of lading, to cash the drafts, all of which
were accepted and paid by the firm. The bank acted in good faith. C.
absconded with the proceeds of two drafts, and the firm brought this action
against the bank to recover the amount. Hdd,1. That the letters constitute
no contract, and the bank is not responsible to the firm for cashing the drafts
without bills of lading attached. 2. That if, however, a contract did arise
from the cashier's unanswered letter of Jan. 17, 1876, it was with the then
existing firm, and ceased on the subsequent change thereof by the admission
of new members, without the knowledge or the consent of the bank.

NATIONAL

BANK v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted by Mr. William ilf1eadon for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. J. A. Sleeper and Mr. J. K. Whiton for the defendants in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of tort growing out of a contract. The
bill of exceptions is well drawn, and reflects clearly the points
in issue between the parties. A brief statement of the case, as
it appears in the record, will be sufficient for the purposes of
this opinion.
During the years 1874, 1875, and up to April 1, 1876, a
firm under the name of Hall, Patterson, & Co. had existed at
Chicago. It consisted of S. Frank Hall, Frank D. Patterson,
and Augustus L. Patterson, three of the five defendants in
error. Their business was selling live-stock on commission
at the Chicago stock-yards. William G. Melson was their
agent at Quincy. To secure consignments at that point to his
principals it was frequently necessary to make advances there.
Hall, Patterson, & Co. arranged with The First National Bank
of Quincy to cash Melson's drafts on them for this purpose.
The drafts were numerous, and were all payable at sight. Penfield was the cashier of the bank. A draft for $125 was returned to the bank unpaid. This gave rise to some controversy
between the bank and the drawees, but the matter was satisfactorily adjusted. Thereafter Hall, Patterson, & Co. addressed
a letter to the cashier, which was as follows: MR. JUsTICE SWAmN

"CHICAGO, Jan. 15, 1876.
"U. S. PENir L), Cashier,Quincy, Ill. :
"DEAR Sip, - Hereafter we will pay drafts only on actual consignments. We cannot advance money a week in advance of shipment. The stock must be in transit so as to meet dr'ft same day
or the day after presented to us. This letter will cancel all previous
arrangement of letters of credit in reference to G. W. Melson.
Please acknowledge receipt of this, and oblige,
"Yours respectfully,
"HALL, PATTERSON, & CO."

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. HALL.

Penfield replied as follows: "Quixoy, ILL., Jan. 17, 1876.
"MEssRs. HALL, PATTERSON, & CO., Chicago:

"DEAR, Sin, -Your favor of the 15th received. I note what
you say. We have never knowingly advanced any money to Melson on stock to come in. Have always supposed it was in transit.
Have always taken his word. After this we shall require ship'g
bill.
Very truly yours,
" U. S. PExPELD, Cashr."
This letter closed the correspondence.
On the 1st of April, 1876, two of the defendants in error,
Frazee and Greer, were added as partners to the firm of Hall,
Patterson, & Co., as it had before existed. They had previously
been employed as clerks, and knew of the writing of the letter
to Penfield of the 17th of January, 1876. The new firm continued to do business under the name of Hall, Patterson, &
Co., until after this suit was commenced. Melson acted as
the agent of the new firm as he had acted for the old one.
Between the 1st of April, 1876, and the happening of the loss
out of which this controversy has arisen, he, as such agent, drew
thirty-one drafts on his principals, amounting in the aggregate
to $50,000. They were all at sight, were cashed by the bank,
and were duly accepted and paid by Hall, Patterson & Co.
There was no communication personally or by letter between
any officer of the bank and any member of the firm, from
the date of the cashier's letter of the 17th of January, 1876,
until after the loss before mentioned. In the mean time, the
bank was wholly ignorant of the change which had been
made in the firm, and the drafts were cashed without such
knowledge.
On the 7th of December, 1876, Melson drew drafts as follows -

"*2,505.

QuiNcY, ILL., Dec. 7, 1876.
"Pay to the order of U. S. Penfield, Cas., twenty-five hundred
and five dollars on account Jos. Hunnele 5 l'ds stock.
"W. G. MELsON.
"To HALL, PATTERSON, & Co., Stock-yards, Chicago, Ills."

NATIONAL BANK V. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

"$2,004.00.
Qun~cY, ILLS., Dec. 7, 1876.
"Pay to the order of U. S. Penfield, Cas., two thousand and four
dollars on account S. C. Fooley 4 l'ds hogs and cattle.
"W. G. MELSON.
"To HALL, PATTERSON, & CO., Stock-yards, Chicago, Ills."
Both these drafts were cashed by the bank on the day of
their date, and the proceeds were paid to Melson. They were
taken in the usual course of business and in entire good faith.
The cashier testified that by "ship'g bill," in his letter of the
17th of January, 1876, he meant bill of lading, but that no
bill of landing was taken by the bank after the date of that
letter, and that all Melson's drafts -being thirty-one after the
1st of April, and ten or twelve between January 17 and April 1
of that year -were
paid by Hall, Patterson, & Co. without
bills of lading being attached, and without inquiry by the
bank or its cashier concerning such securities. When the two
drafts last mentioned were cashed the cashier had no knowledge whether they were drawn against stock or not. It was
a rule of the bank, understood by all the stock agents doing
business there, that no draft should be drawn unless the stock
was in transit. Agents, when drawing, were, therefore, not
usually questioned upon the subject. Their compliance with
the rule was assumed by the bank. The two drafts last mentioned were indorsed and transmitted by the cashier to his
correspondent in Chicago for collection. They were accepted
and paid by Hall, Patterson, & Co., and the plaintiff in error
received the money. No stock was forwarded by Mfelson. The
transaction was a fraud on his part. Upon receiving the proceeds of the drafts he fled the country. He was diligently
sought for, but could not be found. Hall, Patterson, & Co.
brought this suit against the bank to recover the amount they
had paid. A verdict and judgment were rendered in their
favor in the court below, and the bank has brought the case
here for review.
The bill of exceptions contains all the evidence given upon
the trial. It discloses nothing which affords the slightest
ground for any imputation against the bank or its officers with
respect to their good faith and fair dealing in the transaction

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. HALL.

out of which this controversy has arisen. The defendants in
error claimed nothing in that respect in the court below, and
they have made no such claim here.
The counsel for the bank has assigned twenty-seven errors.
Some of them are repetitions of the same objections in different
forms. None of them are frivolous, and many of them, if the
exigencies of the case required it, would be entitled to grave
consideration by this court.
The two letters between the parties, of the 15th and 17th
of January, 1876, are the heart of the controversy. The stress
of the case is upon their construction and effect. Passing by
the other points raised in the record, we shall first give our
attention to this subject, and our remarks will be confined to
that and one other of the errors assigned.
By this letter Hall, Patterson, & Co. advised the bank:
1. That thereafter they would pay drafts only on actual consignments of stock; 2. That they would not pay money a week
in advance of shipments; 3. That the stock must be in transit,
so as to meet the draft the same day or the day after it was
presented to them; 4. That this letter was to cancel all previous
letters of credit as to W. G. Melson ; 5. They asked an acknowledgment of the receipt of the letter.
These terms were clear and explicit. What was the reply
of the bank?
The cashier answered: 1. That the letter of the other party
was received; 2. That its contents were noted; 3. That the bank
had never knowingly advanced money to Melson on stock to
come in; 4. That the cashier had always taken Melson's word;
5. That thereafter the bank would require a " ship'g bill," meaning a bill of lading. This letter Hall, Patterson, & Co. never
answered.
What was its effect as to them? It certainly did not accept
their proposition, nor accede to their terms, that "the stock
must be in transit to meet the draft on the same day or the
day after presented." They made this expressly the condition
of their accepting. The letter made no allusion to the requirement, and was wholly silent on the subject. Upon this point
the parties were as wide asunder as if the letters had not been
written.

NATIONAL BANK v. HALL.

[Sup. Ct.

For whose benefit was the shipping bill mentioned by the
cashier to be taken? Primafacie the point is left in uncertainty. Here again the cashier is silent. But the interpretation is reasonable that Hall, Patterson, & Co., having in
advance refused to accept, except upon the condition mentioned,
the bank notified them in reply that it would thereafter take a
billof lading, not for their protection, but for its own. This
view is strengthened by the conduct of the defendants in error,
and the practical construction which they seem to have thus
given to the clause. They did not say in reply that they understood the shipping bill was to be for their benefit, and that
they should expect it to accompany the draft. No such bill
was ever required by them or sent by the bank. They went
on accepting and paying in silence exactly as before. The
large number of drafts so accepted and paid by them has been
already stated. If they relied on the shipping bills their conduct is inexplicable: If the understanding of the cashier had
been different from what we have suggested, it is hardly to be
supposed he would, from the date of his letter, have constantly
disregarded his promise. Such conduct would have been worse
than negligence. It would have been a gross breach of good
faith to the other party. If, on the other hand, he meant by
the clause that the bill of lading, if taken, was to be solely for
the security of the bank, then it was for the bank to determine
whether it should be required or not. If the cashier had confidence in Melson, and chose to exercise it, he exposed the bank
to the hazard of the consequences; but there was certainly no
responsibility to Hall, Patterson, & Co.
It is a remarkable feature of the case that, when the loss occurred, the defendants in error attached no importance to their
own letter, but fell back upon the letter of the cashier which
they had not answered, and which they had not before in any
manner recognized as concerning them, much less as constituting a contract by the bank for their protection and benefit.
To give it that effect, early and explicit notice to the bank was
necessary. The afterthought of Hall, Patterson, & Co., when
the loss occurred, came too late, and cannot avail them. Adams
v. 7ones, 12 Pet. 207; McCollum v. Cushing, 22 Ark. 540;
White v. Corlies, 46 N. Y. 467; Story, Contr., sect. 1130.

Oct. 1879.]

NATIONAL BANK V. HALL.

The minds of the parties, as shown by these letters, moved on
parallel, not on concentric lines. There was not the meeting
of minds and the mutuality of assent to the same thing, which
are necessary to create a contract. It is not pretended that
the bank ever agreed to the proposition - if it may be considered such, and not the mere announcement of a purpose- contained in the letter of Hall, Patterson, & Co., and there is no
evidence that the proposition of the bank- if the letter of the
cashier can be regarded in that light -was ever accepted and
acted upon by the parties to whom it was addressed. We are
satisfied, however, that no proposition or promise was intended
to be made by the bank, and that this was the understanding
of the defendants in error. Their letter revoked the letter of
credit they had before given to Melson. The bank announced,
in reply, the manner in which it should thereafter do business
with him. Thereafter, each occupied a position independent
of the other. If the bank discounted drafts for Melson, the
defendants in error, like any other drawees, had the option to
accept or not, and in the latter event the bank could have had
no redress against them, whether it had, or had not, taken a
bill of lading. The destruction of the stock, after the bank
took such a bill, would not have changed the relations of the
parties. In our view, it was a thing with which the defendants
in error had nothing to do.
If it be said they were obliged to accept if the bank took a
shipping bill, it may be asked in reply, Where is the evidence
of such an understanding on their part? There is nothing in
the record that gives the slightest support to such an assumption. If they were not bound, where is the consideration for
the alleged promise of the bank? The true view of the subject
is that neither was in anywise bound or liable to the other.
The defendants in error notified the bank that thereafter
they would accept only on the condition specified. The cashier
answered, that the bank would protect itself. This is the sole
effect of the letters. Thereupon the correspondence of the
parties ceased, because there was nothing left for either
to add.
Where there is a misunderstanding as to the terms of a contract, neither party is liable in law or equity. Baldwin v. MildeVOL. xr.

4

NATIONAL BANK V. HALL.

[Sup. ot.

berger, 2 Hall (N. Y.), 176; Coles v. Bowne, 10 Paige (N. Y.),
526; Utley v. Donaldson, 94 U. S. 29.
Where a contract is a unit, and left uncertain in one particular, the whole will be regarded as only inchoate, because the
parties have not been ad idem, and, therefore, neither is bound.
Appleby v. Johnson, Law Rep. 9 C. P. 158.
A proposal to accept, or acceptance upon terms varying from
those offered, is a rejection of the offer. Baker v. Johnson
County, 37 Iowa, 186. See also Jenness v. Mlount Hope Iron
Co., 53 Me. 20; The Chicago & Great -Eastern Railway Co.
v..Dane, 43 N. Y. 240; and Suydam v. Clark, 2 Sandf. (N. Y.)
133.
The learned judge who tried the case below instructed the
jury that the letters constituted a binding contract, and that if
the bank cashed any bills not based on actual consignments to
the plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs sustained any injury by such
failure, the bank is responsible.
This instruction was erroneous.
In making a contract, parties are as important an element as
the terms with reference to the subject-matter. Mutual assent
as to both is alike necessary. If, in fact, there were here, as
claimed, a contract with reference to the latter, it was made on
the 17th of January, 1876, with Hall and the two Pattersons,
then constituting the firm known as Hall, Patterson, & Co.
The change of the firm on the 1st of April following, by taking
in Frazee and Greer as new members, without the knowledge
or consent of the bank, put an end to the contract as to the
latter. The proof is conclusive that the bank had no knowledge of the change until after commencement of this suit. The
alleged cause of action arose more than eight months after the
new partnership was formed, and nearly a year after the date
of the letters by which the contract is claimed to have been
made. There was no privity between the bank and the new
firm. There was no binding acquiescence by the bank. There
could be none without knowledge, and it is not claimed or pretended that such knowledge existed. A new party could no
more be imported into the contract and imposed upon the bank
without its consent, than a change could be made in like manner in the other pre-existing stipulations. The bank might

Oct. 1879.]

MANUFACTURING

Co. v.

TRAINER.

have been willing to contract with the firm as it was originally, but not as it was subsequently. At any rate, it bad the
right to know and to decide for itself. Without its assent a
thing was wanting which was indispensable to the continuity of
the contract. Barns et al. v. Barrow, 61 N. Y. 39; Grant v.
Naylor, 4 Cranch, 224; Bleeker v. Hyde, 3 McLean, 279; Taylor v. Wetmore, 10 Ohio, 490; Taylor v. McClung, 2 Houst.
(Del.) 24; Hunt v. Smith, 17 Wend. (N. Y.) 179; Cremer v.
ifigginson, 1 Alas. 323; Bussell v. Perkins, id. 368.
The court refused an instruction asked for in accordance with
this view of the subject. This, also, was an error.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the court below with directions to proceed in conformity to this
opinion; and it is
So ordered.

MANUFACTURING

COMrPANY

v.

TRAINER.

1. Letters or figures affixed to merchandise by a manufacturer, for the purpose
of denoting its quality only, cannot be appropriated by him to his exclusive
use as a trade-mark.
2. An injunction will not be granted at his suit to restrain another manufacturer
from using a label bearing no resemblance to the complainant's, except
that certain letters, which alone convey no meaning, are inserted in the
centre of each, the dissimilarity of the labels being such that no one will
be misled as to the true origin or ownership of the merchandise.

APPE AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. George . Dallas and Ir.
appellant.
.3'r.Samuel -Dickson,contra.

James -E. Gowen for the

MIR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity to restrain the defendants, D. Trainer
& Sons, from using on ticking manufactured and sold by them
the letters "A. C. A." in the sequence here named, alleged by
the complainant to be its trade-mark, by which it designates

