WRIGHT

v.

BLAKESLEE.

[Sup. Ct.

to recover back so much of the money paid as he was entitled
to retain. Call it mistake of law or mistake of fact, the principles of equity forbid the United States to withhold the same
from the rightful owner.
Judgment affirmed.

WRIGHT v. BLAXKESLEE.
A, who died in October, 1846, devised his real estate to his daughter for life,
with remainder in fee to her son B., should he survive her. She died in September, 1865. B. was duly notified to make the return required by sect. 14 of
the Internal Revenue Act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 226), and on his refusal
to do so was summoned in June, 1867, to appear before the assessor of the
proper district. He appeared, and claimed "that the estate was not liable to
assessment for a succession tax." Thereupon the assessor assessed a tax of
one per cent upon the full value of the property, and added thereto a penalty
of fifty per cent and costs, - all of which B., July 20, 1867, paid under protest
to the collector. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to whom B. appealed, rendered a decision adverse to his claim, July 3, 1873. B. brought
this action, June 24,1875, against the collector to recover the amount so paid.
Held, 1. That the action was not barred by the Statute of Limitations.
2. That the tax was properly assessed and the penalty erroneously imposed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. A. C. Miller for the plaintiff in error.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by B. Huntington Wright, the
plaintiff in error, against Blakeslee, the defendant, formerly
collector of internal revenue for the twenty-first revenue district of New York, to recover the amount of a succession tax
collected from the plaintiff and his sister in 1867, the latter
having assigned her interest to the plaintiff.
A jury was waived, and the cause was tried by the court.
From the findings the following facts appear: Henry Huntington, of Oneida County, New York, died in October, 1846,
leaving a will, by which, amongst other things, he devised to

Oct. 1879.]

WRIGHT v. BLAKESLEE.

his executors certain real estate, in trust, to receive the rents
and profits, and apply the same to the sole and separate use
of his daughter Henrietta (if afeme covert at his death) during
the term of her natural life, and at her decease, if she should
leave issue surviving, the testator gave and devised the said
real estate to such issue absolutely and in fee. When the testator died, his daughter Henrietta was the wife of one Benjamin
H. Wright, and had two children living, B. Huntington Wright
(the plaintiff) and a daughter. Henrietta died in September,
1865, leaving her said two children and her husband surviving.
In June, 1867, the plaintiff and his sister were notified by the
assessor to make return, as required by the fourteenth section of
the Internal Revenue Act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 226) ; and
they both refused and declined to make any return, or give any
knowledge or information as to the quantity, location, or value
of the real estate, and thereupon they were summoned to appear
before the assessor in relation thereto. They appeared accordingly, and claimed that the estate was not liable to assessment
for a succession tax. The assessor decided against them, and
assessed a tax of one per cent on the full value of the property,
and added thereto a penalty of fifty per cent and expenses,
making in all $595.59. In June, 1867, the assessor notified
the parties of the tax imposed, the value of the property, and the
penalty affixed. The assessment or tax, with the penalty, was
placed upon the assessment roll, and delivered to the collector
(the defendant) for collection, and he notified the parties topay the tax.
On the 31st of July, 1867, the parties paid the tax under
protest, the tax paid amounting to $595.59, of which $389.56
was tax, $194.78 was penalty, and $11.25 was the expenses
for making the assessment and valuation. The amount assessed
upon each, viz. B. Huntington Wright and Henrietfa H.
Wright, was $297.29.
On the 5th of October, 1872, the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue wrote the parties that the claim to have the tax
refunded had not been submitted to the department, and
forwarded them a blank to be filled up and transmitted to the
department, and they would then pass upon the case upon its
merits.

. WRIGHT V. BLAKESLEE.

[Sup. Ot.

About the d of January, 1873, the appeal was perfected
and filed with the commissioner.
On the 3d of July, 1873, the commissioner rendered his
decision upon the merits, rejecting the whole claim, and gave
notice thereof.
On the 15th of June, 1875, Henrietta D. Wright, one of
the parties against whom one-half of the tax had been levied
and collected, transferred her claim to the plaintiff.
On the same day a summons was delivered to the sheriff of
New York to serve on defendant.
On the 24th of June, 1875, the summons was actually served
on defendant. The action was originally brought in the State
court, but was removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States, upon proceedings had under the statute.
Upon these facts the court decided, as matter of law, that
the tax and penalty were properly assessed and collected, and
that the plaintiff ought not to recover.
The first and principal question in the case is whether the
devolution of the property to the children of Henrietta Wright
on her death in September, 1865, was a "succession," within
the meaning of sect. 127 of the Internal Revenue Act then
in force. 13 Stat. 287. The language of that section is as
follows

-

"That every past or future disposition of real estate by will,
deed, or laws of descent, by reason whereof any person shall become
beneficially entitled, in possession or expectancy, to any real estate
or the income thereof, upon the death of any person dying after
the passing of this act, shall be deemed to confer on the person
entitled by reason of any such disposition a ' succession;' and the
term ' successor' shall denote the person so entitled, and the term
'predecessor' shall denote the grantor, testator, ancestor, or other
person from whom the interest of the successor has been or shall
be derived."
Comparing the terms of the devise of Henry Huntington
with the language of this section, we do not see where there
is any room for doubt. The will clearly gave to the trustees
an estate for the life of Henrietta Wright, with remainder in
fee to her children surviving her. At her death, in 1865,
those children did "become beneficially entitled in possession,"

Oct. 1879.]

WRIGHT v. BLAKESLEE.

and every condition of the law was fulfilled. There was a
"past" "disposition of real estate by will," "by reason
whereof" the children of Henrietta Wright became "benficially entitled, in possession," to the property devised, "upon
the death of [a] person dying after the passage of this act."
We think the case is directly within the terms and meaning
of the act. Up to the moment of Henrietta Wright's death
her children had no interest in the land except a bare contingent remainder expectant upon her death and their surviving
her. At her death it came to them as an estate in fee in pos
session absolute. We cannot imagine a plainer case of devo
lution within the description of the law.
It is suggested that as the act refers to the acquisition of
estates "in possession or expectancy," it cannot mean to
embrace estates which had already accrued as estates "in
expectancy" before the act was passed. But such an implication cannot be allowed to prevail against the express
words of the act, which include all estates to which a person should become beneficially entitled upon the death of any
person dying after the passage of the act. In the present
case, the children of Henrietta Wright first became "beneficially entitled" to the property in question at their mother's
death. They then became "beneficially entitled in possession."
It is also suggested that the case is more aptly described in
sect. 128 of that act, which is as follows: "That where any real estate shall, at or after the passage of this
act, be subject to any charge, estate, or interest, determinable by
the death of any person, or at any period ascertainable only by
reference to death, the increase or benefit accruing to any person
upon the extinction or determination of such charge, estate, or
interest shall be deemed to be a succession accruing to the person
then entitled beneficially to the real estate or income thereof."
We do not assent to this view. This section is evidently
intended to meet the cases of estates burdened by determinable
incumbrances, such as rent-charges, leases for years, and qualified interests, which do not suspend the taking effect of the
estate in the land, but only subject it to some burden. Where,
VOL. xI.

12

178

WRIGHT v.

BLAKESLEE.

[Sup.

at.

however, a remainder is dependent upon a life-estate in the
land, it does not take effect as an estate in possession until the
life-estate is determined. Till then, it is a mere expectancy.
The present case is one of this kind, and we think clearly
comes within the description of sect. 127.
Another point made by the plaintiff against the assessment
relates to the fifty per cent added to the amount of the succession tax, and exacted by war of penalty for refusing to
make a return as required by the statute. This penalty we
think was erroneously imposed. The assessor evidently thought
that he was authorized to impose the penalty prescribed by the
fourteenth section of the act of 1864 (as amended by the act
of July 18, 1866), which was, it is true, a penalty of fifty per
cent of the tax for refusal or neglect to make a list or return.
But an inspection of that section and of the context to which
it belongs shows that it related to the annual and monthly
lists and returns to be made by parties taxable under the law.
So sect. 118 (as amended by the act of March 2, 1867), which
al~o imposed a penalty of fifty per cent for such neglect and
refusal, and was relied on by the court below, related only to
the income tax. But the penalty for failing to return and give
notice of a succession tax is provided for in a distinct section,
to wit, sect. 148 of the act of 1864 (as amended by the act
of 1866), which is found in immediate collocation with the
sections relating to the succession tax. This section declares
that if any person required to give such notice [of a succession]
should wilfully neglect to do so within the time required by
law, he should be liable to pay to the United States a sum
equal to ten per cent upon the amount of tax payable by
him. This is the specific penalty provided for the special
case, and necessarily excludes any other. We are satisfied,
therefore, that the penalty of fifty per cent which was actually
imposed was wrong, and ought not to have been exacted.
There is, therefore, no doubt of the plaintiff's right to recover
the amount of this penalty, if, when paid, the protest against
its exaction was sufficient.
On this point it is to be observed that the case stands on a
different ground from that of the illegal exaction of duties on
imports. To recover these, the statute makes it necessary that

Oct. 1879.]

WRIGHT

v.

BLAKESLEE.

the party interested should give notice in writing to the collector, if dissatisfied with his decision, setting forth distinctly
and specifically the grounds of his objection thereto. Act of
June 30, 1864, sect. 14; 13 Stat. 214; Rev. Stat., sect. 2931;
Westray v. United States, 18 Wall. 322; Barney, Collector, v.
Watson et al., 92 U. S. 449; Davies v. Arthur, 96 id. 148. No
such written notice or protest is required of a party paying
illegal taxes under the internal revenue laws. He must pay
under protest in some form, it is true, or his payment will be
deemed voluntary. City of Philadelphia v. The Collector,
5 Wall. 720 ; The Collector v. Hfubbard, 12 id. 1. But whilst
a written protest would in all cases be most convenient, there
is no statutory requirement that the protest shall be in writing.
In the present case, the court merely finds that the payment of
the tax and penalty was made under protest, which may have
been either written or verbal. We think that this finding is
sufficient to show that the payment was not voluntary. It is
apparent from the findings, it is true, that the objection of the
parties was particularly made against the legality of the tax,
and not against the penalty as distinct therefrom. But, of
course, the objection included the penalty as well as the tax;
and as the latter was clearly illegal, we think that the plaintiff
should have had judgment for the amount thereof, unless barred
by the Statute of Limitations.
We think that the defence of the Statute of Limitations cannot be maintained. Under the nineteenth section of the act
of July 13, 1866 (14 Stat. 152), no suit could be maintained
for the recovery of a tax illegally collected until appeal should
have been duly made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue,
and his decision had thereon. The act contained other provisions not material to this case. In July, 1867, when the tax
was paid, there was no statutory limitation of time for presenting claims for remission of taxes to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue.
On the 6th of June, 1872, an act was passed, by the fortyfourth section of which it was provided that all suits for the
recovery of any internal tax alleged to have been erroneously
assessed or collected, or any penalty claimed to have been collected without authority, should be brought within two years

180

WRITGIT

v.

BLAKESLEE.

[Sup. Ct.

next after the cause of action accrued, and not after; and all
claims for refunding, any internal tax or penalty should be
presented to the commissioner within two years next after
the cause of action accrued, and not after: Provided, that
actions for claims which had accrued prior to the passage of
the act should be commenced in the courts or presented to the
commissioner within one year from the date of such passage:
And providedfurther, that where a claim should be pending
before the commissioner, the claimant might bring his action
within one year after such decision, and not after. 17 Stat.
257. When this act was passed, the claim in the present case
had not been formally presented to the commissioner, and so
did not come within the last proviso; but, for the purpose of
presentation to the commissioner, it was embraced in the first
proviso. The parties, therefore, had by the act one year to
present their claim to the commissioner; and it was thus presented on the third day of January, 1878, within the time
allowed for that purpose.
The commissioner rendered his decision on the third day of
July, 1878, and then, for the first time, the parties had a right
to bring suit against the collector. Then their cause of action
first accrued against him. It is manifest, therefore, that the
cause of action against the collector was not embraced within
either the first or the second proviso of the section just cited;
and that it stood upon the primary enactment of that section,
requiring that suit should be brought within two years next
after the cause of action accrued. This would give the plaintiff until the 3d of July, 1875, to bring his action.
Thus the matter stood when the Revised Statutes went into
effect on the 22d of June, 1874, and there is nothing in them
to change the plaintiff's right. The forty-fourth section of the
act of 1872 is substantially re-enacted in sect. 8227 of the
Revised Statutes, which contains no modifications of phraseology that affect the present case. And as it appears from the
findings of the court that this suit was commenced by delivery
of the summons to the sheriff on the 15th of June, 1875, it is
apparent that the defence of the Statute of Limitations cannot
be maintained.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the

Oct. 1879.]

PEOPLE'S BANK

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

ease remanded with instructions to enter judgment in favor of
the plaintiff for the amount of the penalties exacted from the
plaintiff and Henrietta H. Wright, with interest and costs;
and it is
So ordered.

PEoPLE's BA&ix v. NATioxAL BA~x.
A. made his promissory note to his own order, duly indorsed it to the order of
B., and delivered it to a national bank. The latter negotiated it to B., and
applied the proceeds thereof to the cancellation of a prior debt of A. With
the knowledge and consent of the president and cashier, who were also directors, but without any notice to or authority from the board, C., one of the
directors and vice-president of the bank, guaranteed, at the time of the transaction, the payment of the note at maturity by an indorsement thereon to
that effect in the name and on behalf of the bank. The note was duly protested for non-payment, and the bank notified thereof. B. brought this action
against the bank. Held, 1. That the bank was not prohibited by law from
guaranteeing the payment of the note. 2. That it is to be presumed that C.
bad rightfully the power lie assumed to exercise, and the bank is estopped to
deny it. 3. That the bank by its retention and enjoyment of the proceeds
of the note, rendered the act of C. as binding as if it had been .xpressly
authorized.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERO

Mr. (Jkarles W. Ihoma8 for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
M . JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was submitted to the court without the intervention of a jury. The court found the facts and gave judgment
for the defendant. The plaintiff thereupon sued out this writ
of error and brought the case here for review. The act of
Congress regulating the procedure adopted seems to have been
carefully complied with.
The People's Bank of Belleville, plaintiff, and the Manufacturers' National Bank of Chicago, defendant, in the court below,
are respectively the plaintiff and the defendant in error here.

