Oct. 1879.]

CRESWELL v. LANAHAN.

CRESWELL v. LANAHAN.
The Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, chartered by an act of Congress
approved March 3, 1865 (13 Stat. 510), being, during a financial crisis pressed
for means, its agent, with the knowledge and consent of its trustees, borrowed of A. moneys which were applied to its use. A note therefor was
signed by the actuary of the institution, who subsequently transferred to A.,
in satisfaction thereof, certain securities belonging to the company. That
officer was held out to the public as competent to make such an exchange, and
there was no departure in this instance from the established usage. No
fraud was committed, and the transaction was advantageous to the institution.
On the failure of the company, the commissioners appointed to wind up its
affairs filed their bill, praying that A. be decreed to deliver to them said securities. Hdd, that the commissioners are not entitled to relief.

APPEALS from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

The Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, and John A.
J. Creswell and others, its commissioners, filed, June 26, 1875,
two bills in equity in the court below against Thomas M.
Lanahan and others. One bill charges that Juan Boyle, on or
about July 31, 1871, being indebted to the company in the
sum of $2,500, for which it held his note of that date, payable
in one year, executed and delivered to Eaton and Stickney to
secure its payment, a deed of trust of the same date (duly
recorded), with the usual power of sale, conveying certain real
estate in Washington.
It further charges that the note held by the company as
part of its assets was, June, 1874, unlawfully, and to the prejudice of its depositors and creditors, taken fr'om its assets, and
delivered to Lanaban, who is now holding it in his possession
and pretending to be the owner of it. The delivery and transfer of the note to him are then charged to have been unlawful
and void, upon the ground that the act of Congress of March
3, 1865 (13 Stat. 510), organizing the company, requires the
affirmative vote of at least seven members of the board of
trustees to transfer any securities or assets belonging to the
corporation, and the complainants charge that the note was
transferred without any vote whatever, and without the knowledge and consent of any of the trustees.
The prayer of the bill is for general relief, and specially, that
the pretended transfer of the note to Lanahan be declared null

ORESWFLL v. LANAHAN.

[Sup. or.

and void; that he be directed to bring it into court to be disposed of according to law; and that the trust property be sold
and the proceeds applied to the payment of the note, for the
benefit of the company and its creditors.
The other bill makes the same averments and claims the
same relief as to a note for $8,000, executed to the company by
Anna E. Boyle and others, secured in the same manner as the
note of Juan Boyle, and transferred to Lanahan in the same way.
Lanahan answered, stating the circumstances under which he
came into possession of the notes in question, and setting up a
title thereto. They and so much of the charter of the company
as relates to the case will be found in the opinion of the court.
The bill in each case was, on final hearing, dismissed, and
the commissioners appealed.
Mr. Enoch Totten for the appellants.
Mr. S. Yeakle Tfallis for the appellees.
Mn. JUsvIOE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Several of the documents referred to by the witnesses in one
of the cases have been lost or destroyed, and there is some
uncertainty and conflict in the testimony with respect to them
and the transactions to which they relate. The discrepancies
are not material, and the substantial facts appear with sufficient clearness to enable us satisfactorily to dispose of the controversy. A statement, somewhat condensed, will be sufficient
for the purposes of this opinion.
In 1873, the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company, the
corporation represented by the appellants, found itself seriously
embarrassed for the want of means to meet its current daily
liabilities. In November or December of that year, it borrowed
from the appellee Lanahan the sum of $10,000, for which it
gave its note, payable at sixty or ninety days, probably bearing
a high rate of interest, and secured by $20,000 of the improvement bonds of the District of Columbia at their par value. The
note was executed by the actuary of the company. The loan
was negotiated by the appellee, Juan Boyle, who acted as the
agent of the company, by virtue of a written document under
the hand of its president and its corporate seal. The money
was applied in payment of depositors. The institution was

Oct. 1879.]

CRESWELL v. LANAHAN.

suffering from the financial revulsion initiated and precipitated
by the failure of Jay Cooke & Co., which swept over the entire
country. It was deemed better to make loans at the interest
paid, whatever it was, than to sell securities at the rates which
then ruled in the markets.
About the 1st of May, 1874, it was agreed between Lanahan
and Boyle that the former should lend the latter $21,000, including the note of the company for $10,000, and that Boyle
should procure the company to transfer to Lanahan a note of
Anna E. Boyle and others to the company for $8,000, secured
by deed of trust to Eaton and Stickney, and the note of Juan
Boyle to the company for $2,500, secured by another deed of
trust to the same parties. Other collaterals, with which the
company had nothing to do, were also to be delivered by Boyle
to Lanahan. Boyle thereupon delivered the note for $10,000
to the company, and the company transferred and delivered to
Lanahan the two notes of $8,000 and of $2,500. Both these
notes were then overdue. This terminated Lanahan's dealings
with the company, and these are the notes involved in this
controversy. The bill, without imputing fraud, avers that Lanahan is not entitled to hold them, and prays that he may be
decreed to deliver them to the complainants.
At the same time that Boyle delivered to the company its
note for $10,000, he made a full and final settlement with it of
all the liabilities of himself and of Juan Boyle & Co. He
was found indebted to the company, after deducting the note
of $10,000, in the sum of $28,522.38. Boyle thereupon gave
the note of Juan Boyle & Co. for $28,000, secured it by certain
collaterals, and paid the balance in cash. Subsequently the
collaterals proved to be worthless, the firm became insolvent,
and the debt is hopelessly lost to the company. It was considered safe by the actuary at the time of the transaction.
Eaton, one of the trustees in the deeds of trust, died, and by
proper proceedings the respondent Cull was substituted for him
and Stickney. The third section of the act of Congress chartering the institution is as follows: "The business of the corporation shall be managed and directed
by the board of trustees, who shall elect from their number a president and two vice-presidents, and may appoint such other officers

CRESWELL V. LANAHAN.

[Sup. Ot.

as they may see fit; nine of the trustees, of whom the president or
one of the vice-presidents shall be one, shall form a quorum for the
transaction of business at any regular or adjourned meeting of the
board of trustees; and the affirmative vote of at least seven members
of the board shall bi requisite in making any order for, or authorizing
the investment of any moneys, or the sale or transfer of any stock
or securities belonging to the corporation, or the appointment of any
officer receiving any salary therefrom."
On the 18th of September, 1873, the board of trustees authorized and empowered the officers of the company to assign and
transfer any of the registered stock of the United States standing in its name.
On the 13th of December in that year, the same board directed
the finance committee to authorize those officers to negotiate
the securities of the company in such manner as to relieve the
bank from its embarrassment.
There was no formal order touching either of the transactions
of Lanahan with the company, but they were communicated, as
were all others, daily to the individual members of the board.
There is no proof that any objection was ever made. Several
of the trustees expressed an earnest desire that the company
should escape from the embarrassments by which it was surrounded, and be able to avoid bankruptcy. The threatened
catastrophe proved inevitable. On the 29th of June, 1874, the
company closed its doors, and a few days later went into liquidation. In the transactions with Lanahan in making the loan
and giving the note in one case, and in transferring and handing
over the two notes in the other, the actuary was governed by
the settled usage of the bank in all such cases.
It is a striking fact that there is nothing in the record which
casts the slightest shadow of bad faith upon either of the
respondents, or upon the president or actuary of the company.
It does not appear that a dollar of its means went fraudulently
into the pockets of either of those parties.
The case naturally divides itself into two parts, each of which
requires separate consideration:1. As to the loan of $10,000, and the note given to the
lender.
2. The transfer of the two Boyle notes.

Oct. 1879.]

CRESWELL V. LANAHAN.

The question presented as to the first point is easy of solution.
The money was fairly borrowed. The note was given for it,
and the fund was honestly applied in payment of pressing
liabilities of the company. The trustees individually were
advised of the transaction and made no objection. It would be
a perversion of the plainest principles of reason and justice to
permit the validity of such a security to be effectually denied.
It cannot be done. De Groff v. American Linen Thread Co.,
21 N. Y. 124; Parih v. WTheeler, 22 id. 494; Bradley v.
Ballard, 55 Ill. 413; Steamboat Company v. Me Cutchen . Collins, 13 Pa. St. 13.
Courts do not look at such transactions with the microscopic
eyes of a special demurrer.
The second point hardly admits of more doubt than the first
one.
The company took up its note given to Lanahan, and gave
him in place of it the two notes of the Boyles, amounting
together to $10,500. When this was done, Juan Boyle paid the
company $522.38. This was more than the difference in
amount between the note first named and the other two. Certainly the company could sustain no possible injury from this
exchange. It paid a debt overdue, and took up its note by
parting with two of its securities. With the residue of the
settlement between Boyle and the company Lanahan had
nothing to do. He was neither a party nor privy. As to him
it was res inter alios acta. It cannot in any wise affect his
rights, and may properly be laid out of view.
If the two notes which he received can be wrested from him,
the company will have had the full benefit of the loan, and
have got back its note without paying any thing, while he will
have lost the entire amount. This is a suit in equity. It would
be a singular equity that could work out such a result.
But further: the actuary who made the exchange of securities
was held out to the world as competent to do what he did. It
was done in conformity to the established usage of the company
in all such cases. Under such circumstances, the institution
cannot be permitted to deny that he had all such powers as he
habitually exercised, and thus assumed to have. ZkMerchants'
Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604.

CHRISTIAN UNION V. YOUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

The transaction, like all others, was made known to the
trustees individually, and they never objected. This intelligent
acquiescence was a binding ratification. .Kelsey v. National
Bank of Crawford County, 69 Pa. St. 426; Hilliard v. Goold,
34 N. H. 230; Christian U-niversity v. Jordan, 29 Mo. 68;
Sherman v. Fitch, 98 Mass. 59.
The arrangement was first challenged after the company
became bankrupt and went into the hands of the appellants.
The company was concluded, and the appellants can be in
no better position. They, like assignees in bankruptcy, can
have no rights, legal or equitable, but those of the insolvent
party whom they represent. Gibson v. Warden, 14 Wall.
244.
The appellants are not entitled to any relief.
Other legal views which are applicable lead to the same
conclusion, but it is unnecessary to pursue the subject further.
This opinion disposes also of the second case. The two cases
are the same, mutatis mutandis.
-Decrees affirmed.

CHRISTIAN UNION v. YoUNT.
1. While a corporation must dwell in the State which created it, its existence
may be elsewhere acknowledged and recognized. Its residence creates no
insuperable objection to its power of contracting in another State.
2 In harmony with the general law of comity among the States composing the
Union, the presumption is to be indulged that a corporation, if not forbidden
by its charter, may exercise the powers thereby granted within other States,
including the power of acquiring lands, unless prohibited therefrom, either
in their direct enactments or by their public policy, to be deduced from the
general course of legislation or the settled adjudications of their highest
courts.
8. This court cannot presume that it is now, or was in 1870, against the public
policy of Illinois that one of her citizens owning real estate there situate
should convey it to a benevolent or missionary corporation of another State
of the Union, for the purpose of enabling it to carry out the objects of its
creation, since she permitted her own corporations, organized for like purposes, to take such real estate by purchase, gift, devise, or in any other
manner.

