Oct. 1879.]

EMPIRE v. DARLINGTON.

We cannot see that the present case comes within the principle that requires that contracts which, though invalid for want
of corporate power, have been fully executed shall remain as
the foundation of rights acquired by the transaction.
We have given this case our best consideration on account
of the importance of the principles involved in its decision,
and after a full examination of the authorities we can" see no
error in the action of the Circuit Court.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY did not sit in this case.

EMPIRE

v.

DARLINGTON.

1. Pursuant to the provisions of an act of the General Assembly of Illinois,
approved Feb. 28, 1867, and to the result of a popular election duly called,
and held June 3, 1867, a township subscribed $50,000 to the capital stock of
a railroad company, created under the laws of that State, and it issued its
bonds in payment therefor. On Aug. 20, 1869, that company was consolidated with another in Indiana, the new company assuming another name,
and, in harmony with the object of said act, providing for the construction
of a continuous line of road from a point in Indiana to the initial point of
the road in Illinois. An election held in the township, Oct. 12, 1869, for the
purpose of ascertaining the sense of its people upon the proposition to subscribe, upon certain conditions, $25,000, for additional stock in aid of the
construction and completion of the road of the consolidated company, resuited in favor of the subscription, which being made, bonds'to that amount
in the customary form, bearing date March 20, 1870, and signed by the
supervisor and clerk, were issued in the name of the township and delivered
to the company. Each contains a recital that it is issued under and by
virtue of a law of the State of Illinois, approved Feb. 28, 1867, and in accordance with the vote of the electors of said township, at the special election held Oct. 12, 1869, in accordance with said act; and it pledges the
faith of the township for the payment of the said principal sum and interest
as aforesaid. The twelfth section of the act of Feb. 28, 1867, declares that
"to further aid in the construction of said road by said company, any
incorporated town or townships in counties acting under the township organization law, along the route of said road, may subscribe to the capital
stock of said company in any sum, not exceeding 250,000." Held, 1. That
the power of the township to subscribe to the capital stock of the company
was not exhausted by the subscription firstmade after the election held

EmPIRE

v.

DARLINGTON.

[Sup. ot.

June 3, 1867. 2. That under said section the power of the township to
subscribe was limited in amount only. 3. That the consolidation of the
company was authorized by the general statute of Illinois of Feb. 28, 1854.
4. That the power of the township to make the additional subscription was,
in its essence, a right and privilege conferred upon the company chartered
by the act of 1867 which, under the act of 1854, passed to the consolidated
company.
2. The court affirms its ruling in Broolyn v. Insurance Company (99 U. S. 362),
that a decree rendered in a county court in a suit against a railroad
company and others, declaring that municipal bonds and coupons issued to
the company are null and void, does not affect the holders of them who did
not appear, and bad only constructive notice of the suit.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
Under the provisions of an act of the legislature of Illinois,
approved Feb. 28, 1867, and in conformity to the result of a
popular election duly called, and held on the 3d of June, 1867,
the township of Empire in McLean County, in that State,
made a subscription of 850,000 to the capital stock of the
Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad Company,
a corporation created under the laws of Illinois. That company bad by its charter power to locate, construct, and complete a railroad from Pekin, through, or as near as practicable
to, certain designated towns, to the eastern boundary of the
State.
In payment of the subscription, bonds of the township, of
like amount, were issued and delivered to the company.
On the twentieth day of August, 1869, that company consolidated with the Indianapolis, Crawfordsville, and Danville
Railroad Company; an Indiana corporation, the consolidated
company assuming the name of the Indianapolis, Bloomington,
and Western Railway Company. The consolidated railroad
formed a continuous line of road from Indianapolis, Ind., to
Pekin, Ill.
On the 12th of October, 1869, an election was held in the
township of Empire for the purpose of ascertaining the sense
of its people upon the proposition to subscribe, upon certain
conditions, the sum of $25,000, as additional stock in aid of
the construction and completion of the Indianapolis, Bloomington, and Western Railroad. The election resulted in favor of
the subscription, which being made, bonds to that amount

Oct. 1879.]

EMPIRE v. DARLINGTON.

were issued in the name of the township and delivered to the
company.
The bonds were in the .customary form, dated March 20,
1870, and signed by the township supervisor and clerk. Each
one contained a recital that it was issued "under and by virtue
of a law of the State of Illinois, entitled ' An Act to amend
the articles of association of the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad Company, and to extend the powers
of and confer a charter upon the same,' approved Feb. 28,
1867, and in accordance with the vote of the electors of said
township, at the special election held Oct. 12, 1869, in accordance with said act. And the faith of the township of Empire
is hereby pledged for the payment of the said principal sum
and interest as aforesaid."
Darlington, who is the holder of some of the bonds and
coupons issued March 20, 1870, brought this action against the
township to recover thereon. It was admitted in the court
below that on April 29, 1878, the Circuit Court of McLean
County, Illinois, upon the application of certain tax-payers of
the said township, enjoined the further payment of the principal or interest, or any part of the bonds or coupons issued in
payment of the said subscription of $25,000; that the bondholders were made parties to that suit by the name of unknown
owners and holders; that they were notified of its pendency by
publication only; and that subsequently a decree was rendered
declaring said bonds and coupons void, and perpetually enjoining the assessment and collection of taxes for the purpose of
paying them.
The defences set up by the township are stated in the
opinion of the court.
A jury having been waived, the court below rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiff for $8,178.05 and costs, whereupon the township sued out this writ of error.
Mr. Lawrence Weldon for the plaintiff in error.
MJr. Sitelby Jt. Cullom, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The present action involves the validity of the bonds and

EmPIRE V. DARLINGTON.

[Sup. Or.

'the coupons thereto attached of the $25,000 issue, some of
which are held by the defendant in error.
Their validity is assailed upon several grounds, each of
which will be briefly examined.
It is contended that the election held on the 3d of June,
1867, under the charter of the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington,
and Pekin Railroad Company, whereby the subscription of
$50,000 was made and bonds issued in payment thereof, exhausted the power of the township under that charter, and
that any additional subscription was without authority of
law.
This position is clearly untenable. The twelfth section of
the charter of the railroad company furnishes a conclusive
answer to this proposition. That section declares that "to
further aid in the construction of said road by said company,
any incorporated town or townships in counties acting under
the township organization law, along the route of said road,
may subscribe to the capital stock of said company in any sum,
not exceeding $250,000." That the plaintiff in error belongs
to the class of townships described in that section, is not disputed. Its right, consequently, to make subscriptions, from
time to time, until they reached the prescribed limit, seems to
be too clear to require argument in its support. The charter
contains no word, clause, or section indicating that the authority of the township to make subscriptions ceased after the first
subscription. The legislature fixed a limit beyond which the
township could not go in its subscriptions to the company in
question, but left it free - the people consenting by popular
vote - to make subscriptions in such sums and at such times
as it deemed necessary or proper, within the aggregate amount
named in the section which has been quoted. People v. Town
of Waynesville, 88 Ill. 469.
The next proposition urged upon our attention is that by
the consolidation to which we have referred a new corporation
was created by the name of the Indianapolis, Bloomington, and
Western Railway Company, and the original companies dissolved; that there was no power vested in the electors, the corporate authority of the township of Empire, under the charter
of the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad

Oct. 1879.]

EMPIRE v. DARLINGTON.

Company, to hold an election, to subscribe stock and issue
bonds to that new company. This proposition is equally
untenable with the first.
By a general statute of Illinois, passed Feb. 28, 1854, and in
force as well at the date of the charter of the Danville, Urbana,
Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad Company, as when it was
consolidated with the Indianapolis, Crawfordsville, and Danville Railroad Company, express authority was conferred upon
all railroad companies then organized or thereafter to be organized,, which then had or might thereafter have their termini
fixed by law, whenever their road or roads intersected by continuous lines, to " consolidate their property and stock with
each other, and to consolidate with companies out of this
[that] State, whenever their lines connect with the lines of
such companies out of this [that] State." That statute further
provided that the consolidated company, by the name agreed
upon, should be a body corporate and politic, and "shall have
all the powers, franchises, and immunities which the, said
respective companies shall have by virtue of their respective
charters, before such consolidation passed, within the State of
Illinois." Ill. Rev. Stat. Gross (3d ed.), pp. 537, 538.
It thus appears that whatever powers, franchises, and immunities were enjoyed by the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and
Pekin Railroad Company, under its charter, passed, upon the
consolidation, to the consolidated company. The power of the
township of Empire to make, as we have held it could, an
additional subscription, beyond the original of $50,000, was,
in its essence, a right and privilege of the railroad company
which, under the general law of the State, passed to the consolidated company. County of Scotland v. Thomas, 94 U. S.
682; County of Henry v. Nicolay, 95 id. 619. It was evidently
so understood by the parties concerned; foi while the bonds
very properly refer to the act of Feb. 28, 1867 (which is the
charter of the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad Company), as the statute which specifically authorized
their issue, the petition of citizens asking an election, and the
notice of the election of Oct. 12, 1869, distinctly show that
the additional subscription of $25,000 to be voted on was for
additional stock in aid of the construction and completion, not

EmPIRE v. DARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

of the Danville' Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad,
but "of the Indianapolis, Bloomington, and Western Railroad."
If the popular vote had been, in terms, in favor of a subscription to the capital stock of the Danville, Urbana, Bloomington,
and Pekin Railroad Company, and the subscription had been
made in that form, there would be some reason to contend that
the subscription would have been a nullity, since no such
company then had a distinct separate existence. But when, as
here, the vote was taken, and the subscription made, with
direct reference to the construction and completion of the original line by the consolidated company, which had previously
succeeded to all the powers, franchises, and immunities of the
Danville, Urbana, Bloomington, and Pekin Railroad Company,
there would seem to be no ground whatever to question the
validity of the bonds issued and delivered to the company in
payment of the subscription.
It is scarcely necessary to say that the decree in the Circuit
Court of McLean County, Illinois, rendered in 1878, perpetually enjoining the assessment and collection of taxes for the
purpose of paying the bonds and coupons in question, and
declaring said bonds and coupons to be void, did not conclude
the rights of the defendant in error. The bondholders were
proceeded against by constructive service, as "unknown owners
and holders." The defendant in error was not served with
process, nor did he appear. If the decree was binding upon
the citizens and courts of Illinois, as to which we express no
opinion, it was ineffectual as to bondholders residing in other
States, who were proceeded against only by constructive service. Brooklyn v. Insurance Company, 99 U. S. 362.
Judgment affirmed.

