Oct. 1879.]

WORTHINGTON V. MASON.

WORTHIN GTON V. MASON.
1. No error is committed in refusing a prayer for instructions consisting of a
series of propositions, presented as an entirety, if any of them should not
be given to the jury.
2. When error is assigned upon the instructions given and those refused, the
bill of exceptions must set forth so much of the evidence as tends to prove
the facts, out of which the question is raised to which the instructions
apply.
3. Where, therefore, the bill of exceptions embodies only the instructions given
and those refused, this court will not reverse the judgment.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas.
This was an action brought by Martha W. Mason against
Edward T. Worthington and Isaac M. Worthington, administrators of Elisha Worthington, deceased, to recover for work
and labor done and services rendered to the intestate. The
jury rendered a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of $12,000,
for which there was judgment, and the administrators sued out
this writ of error.
The facts are sufficiently stated in the opinion of the court.

Ir. Augustus H. Garlandfor the plaintiffs in error.
.INr Albert Pike, Mr. Albert N. iSutton, and .Dr. Luther iH.
Pike for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MmILER delivered the opinion of the court.

The errors assigned in this case relate solely to prayers for
instructions refused by the court and to exceptions to its
charge. The bill of exceptions shows a paper signed by the
defendants' counsel, in which the court is asked to affirm a
series "of propositions of law as governing the case," seven in
number. They were presented as a whole, refused as a whole,
and excepted to in the same manner. If any one of them was
rightfully rejected no error was committed, because it was not
the duty of the court to do any thing more than pass upon the
prayer as an entirety. Beaver v. Taylor et al., 93 U. S. 46;
TransportationLine v. Hope, 95 id. 297. We shall presently
see why there is no error in the rejection of this prayer.

WOATHINGTON V. MASON.

[Sup. Or.

The charge of the court in full is embodied in the record,
and to this the defendant took two exceptions. They are thus
stated :"And the defendant excepted at the time said charge was
given by the court to the following parts thereof, to wit, to
so much of said charge as states the law to be that if Colonel
Worthington, the owner of the plaintiff as a slave, took the
plaintiff to Oberlin, in the State of Ohio, and there placed her
in school to be educated, the Constitution and Jaws of Ohio
immediately dissolved the relation of master and slave previously existing between Colonel Worthington and the plaintiff,
and that the plaintiff thereby became a free woman, and could
never thereafter lawfully be claimed or held by Colonel Worthington as his slave in virtue of his previous ownership of her,
and that the subsequent return of the plaintiff from the State
of Ohio to the residence of the intestate in this State did not
affect her liberty or rights as a free woman which she hadacquired by the voluntary action of the intestate and by the
operation of the Constitution and laws of the State of Ohio.
"And defendants, also, at the time excepted to the following
clause of said instructions, to wit, ' And in considering the
question of what would be reasonable and just compensation to
the plaintiff for her services, you are at liberty to take into
consideration any evidence tending to establish the special
agreement heretofore referred to, and if you fint such special
agreement a contract was made, that is, that the intestate, for
the purpose of inducing the plaintiff to remain with him and
render the services alleged to have been rendered, agreed to
convey or devise to the plaintiff in payment for such services
specified portions or parcels of his estate, and that the plaintiff
did remain with the intestate and perform the required services
until the death of the intestate, then, as throwing light on
the transactions between the parties, and as tending to show
the value the parties themselves placed upon the services of the
plaintiff, you are at liberty to take into consideration the value
as disclosed by the evidence of such specific parcels of real
estate which you may find the intestate agreed to convey or
devise to plaintiff for such services, and considering the special
contract (if you find it proven) for this purpose only, it rests

Oct. 1879.]

WORTHINGTON V. MASON.

with you under your oaths and judgments, considering all the
facts and circumstances in the case disclosed by the evidence,
to say what would be a fair, reasonable, and just compensation
to the plaintiff for her services, but in no event can you allow
the plaintiff a greater sum than the value of the specific property which plaintiff claims was to be conveyed or devised to
her therefor.'"
There is in no part of this bill of exceptions any statement
of the evidence. There is no statement that any evidence was
offered, or that any was objected to. With the exception of
the reference to it in the charge of the court, there is nothing
to show what was proved, or what any of the evidence tended
to prove. The prayers for instruction, therefore, may have
been hypothetical and wholly unwarranted by any testimony
before the jury.
The exceptions to the charge of the court, just recited, are
in the same condition. The principal one, to which the argument of the plaintiffs in error is chiefly directed, is that the
court erred in telling the jury that "if Colonel Worthington,
the owner of the plaintiff as a slave, took her to Oberlin, in
the State of Ohio, and placed her in school to be educated,
the Constitution and laws of Ohio immediately dissolved the
relation of master and slave previously existing between Colonel
Worthington and the plaintiff, and that the plaintiff thereby
became a free woman, . . . and her subsequent return to
the residence of Worthington in Arkansas did not affect her
rights to freedom."
The plaintiff nowhere states in her petition that she was
ever the slave of Worthington, though she alleges that she was
his natural daughter.
As none of the evidence given or offered on the trial is set
out in the bill of exceptions, we cannot presume against the
verdict that plaintiff ever was the slave of Worthington.
The defendant in error raises this objection, and the very
learned counsel of the plaintiffs in error, who did not try the
case below, admits this objection to be fatal to his effort to
reverse the judgment, unless we can hold, from language used
by the judge in his charge to the jury, that the fact was
proved.

WORTHINGTON V. MASON.

[Sup. OL

It is certainly true that the judge does say, in that part of
his charge which relates to that subject, that the former slavery
was a conceded fact in the case. His language, in addressing
the jury, while discussing the propositions of the defendants'
counsel, is as follows: "Among the conceded facts in the case are these: That the
mother of the plaintiff was a slave, and the property of Colonel
Worthington at the date of plaintiff's birth, and that the plaintiff is the natural daughter of Colonel Worthington. The
mother of the plaintiff having been a slave at the date of the
plaintiff's birth, it results that she was born a slave, and at
her birth was the property of Colonel Worthington, her natural
father."
But we do not look to the charge of the judge for the state
of the evidence on which that very charge is to be held right
or wrong. The judge cannot be permitted to cure the error of
his law propositions by assuming as facts what may not have
been proved. This very part of. the charge was excepted to by
the plaintiffs in error on the ground that its law was erroneous.
If the verdict had been for them, the plaintiff below might
have excepted, because the facts thus stated were not conceded.
As we understand the principles on which judgments here are
reviewed by writ of error, that error must appear by some ruling on the pleadings, or on a state of facts presented to this
court. Those facts, apart from the pleadings, can only be shown
here by a special verdict, an agreed statement duly signed
and submitted to the court below, or by bill of exceptions.
When in the latter, complaint is made of the instructions of
the court given or refused, it must be accompanied by a distinct statement of testimony given or offered which raises the
question to which the instructions apply.
This is not to be sought for, however,, in the comments of the
court to the jury on the testimony.
The proof of the facts which make the charge erroneous
must be distinctly set forth, or it must appear that evidence
was given tending to prove them.
It is not sufficient to show that the judge assumed this in
his charge to the jury, it must be certified to this court distinctly under his hand.

Oct. 1879.]

CUMMINGS v. NATIONAL BANK.

It would be yery dangerous to permit verdicts fairly rendered to be reversed in this court on the recitation of facts
supposed to be proved, found only in a long comment of the
judge on the testimony.
This would be to usurp the function of the jury, and the
verdict might be set aside in this court because the court
below understood the evidence in one way, and the jury in
another; or, as in the present case, because the judge was
of opinion that a fact was proved which the jury refused to
believe.
When, therefore, the question is on the soundness of the
judge's law as given to the jury, he must, on his due responsibility, certify to the appellate court, and not to the jury, the
evidence on which he pronounced the law.
We are not furnished by counsel with any case precisely in
point. Probably no bill of exceptions was ever certified to an
appellate court before, which contained nothing but the charge
and the objections made to it.
Judgment affirmed.

CUMMINGS v. NAT Io AL BANX.
The Constitution of Ohio declares that "laws shall be passed taxing by a uniform rule all moneys, credits, investments in bonds, stocks, joint-stock com.
panies, or otherwise; and also all the real and personal property, according
to its true value in money." And the legislature has passed laws providing separate State boards of equalization for real estate, for railroad capital,
and for bank shares, but there is no State board to equalize personal property, including all other moneyed capital. The equalizing process as to all
other personal property and moneyed capital ceases with the county boards.
Throughout a large part of Ohio, including Lucas County, in which A., a
national bank, is located, perhaps all over the State, the officers charged with
the valuation of property for purposes of taxation adopted a settled rule or
system, by which real estate was estimated at one-third of its true value,
ordinary personal property about the same, and moneyed capital at threefifths of its true value. The State board of equalization of bank shares increased the valuation of them to their full value. A. brought its bill against
the treasurer of that county, praying that he be enjoined from collecting a
tax wrongfully assessed on those shares. Hedd, 1. That the statute creating

