320

SmITH v. AYER.

[Sup. Ct.

SMITH v. AYER.
SMiITH

v.

NATIoxiAL BANK.

1. A principal is, in law, affected with notice of all facts, of which notice can be
charged upon his attorney.
2. Parties who deal with an executor, exercising his power of disposition of the
personal assets of the estate in his hands, to raise money, not for the estate
or the settlement of its affairs, but for the business of a commercial firm,
are bound to look into his authority, and are held to a knowledge of all the
limitations which the will, as well as the law, puts thereon.
3. His sale or pledge of assets made for other purposes than the discharge of his
duties as executor, will not be sustained where the purchaser or pledgee
takes them with knowledge or notice of the perversion of them, or the intended perversion of their proceeds.
4. Such assets are held by him in trust to pay the debts of the testator and then
to discharge legacies. Where, therefore, they are acquired from him by
third parties, with knowledge of his trust and of his disregard of its obligations, they can be followed and recovered.
5. At the time of his death A. held in his name an interest in a commercial firm
which be had acquired by funds belonging one-third to himself, one-third to
the children of a deceased brother, and one-third to a sister. In his will, of
which B., his brother, was appointed executor, A. made a request that the
whole of such interest should be retained in the firm, under the control of
B., so long as the latter should deem it profitable. His own interest he
bequeathed to B., in trust for the latter and certain nephews and nieces, in
equal proportions, to be held and controlled by B. so long as he should
deem it advisable. One of the members of the firm having withdrawn
therefrom, B. purchased his interest, whereupon the firm name was changed.
Subsequently, to raise funds wherewith to pay loans made to the firm,
B. pledged to C. certain notes which had come into his possession as executor. Held, 1. That, assuming the identity of the firm remained after the
change of its members and name, the authority of B., as executor, to continue a specifically designated existing interest in the firm did not extend
to the use in its business of any other funds or property of the estate.
2. That his use of the notes to raise funds for the firm was a inisappropriation of them, and that 0., having knowledge of the directions of the
testator, cannot hold them against the claim of his representatives.

APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The first case'was argued by Mr. H. G. Miller and Hr. T.
a. Frost for the appellants, and by M1fr. . C. Goudcy for the
appellees.

OctG. 1879.]

SmITH V. AYER.

a.

The second case was argued by Mr. Hf. C. Miller, Mr. T.
Fro8t, and Mr. P. C".Smith for the appellants, and by Mr.
C. C. Bonney for the appellees.
Ma. JUSTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
These are suits in equity to compel the delivery to the complainants of two promissory notes, each for $39,250, alleged to
belong to the estate of Renick Huston, deceased, brought by
the administrators de honis non of that estate and the administrator de honis non of the estate of Thomas T. Renick, deceased.
They were commenced in a court of the State of Illinois, and
upon application of the defendants, Ayer et al., in the first case,
and of the First National Bank of Westboro', Mass., in the
second case, were transferred to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois. That court dismissed the bill in both cases, and from its decrees they are
brought here on appeal.
The facts out of which the suits arise are substantially these:
In February, 1864, one Renick Hluston, then a resident of Ohio,
died possessed of a tract of land, about eighty acres in extent,
near Chicago, Ill. The legal title to the land stood in the
name of Job R. Renick, but it is admitted that he held it as
trustee for the estate of Huston, and to reimburse Thomas T.
Renick for certain expenditures incurred on account of the
property. The deceased left a will, by which, after making
certain bequests, he devised one-third of the residue of his
estate to Thomas T. Renick, whom he named as his executor,.
and to whom letters testamentary were issued. The property
having been sold at different times for taxes, and being subject
to various charges, Renick advanced money to a large amount,
stated to be between twenty and thirty thousand dollars, to
redeem it from the sales, and to pay off the claims upon it.
He was authorized under the will to sell the real estate, and
accordingly, in July, 1872, he sold it to one Joel D. Harvey
for $157,000, payable one-fourth in cash and the balance in
one, two, and three years, for which notes were given, secured
by a trust-deed of the property executed to one J. Edwards
Fay. There were six notes in all, three being each for $39,250,
and the other three for the instalments of interest as they fell
VOL. X1.

21

SMITH v. AYER.

[Sup. Ct,

due. They were all made payable to the order of Thomas T.
lenick individually. The cash payment was sufficient to reimburse him for his outlays, and he held the notes as executor
of Huston's estate.
In August, 1873, Thomas T. Renick died in Ohio, leaving
a will, and appointing his brother Benjamin executor of his
estate. Letters testamentary were accordingly issued to Benjamin, and the notes of Harvey subsequently came into his possession as executor. At the time of his death the deceased
held in his name an interest in a commercial firm, known as
Tower, Classen, & Co., engaged in the manufacture and sale
of chromatic printing-presses, at Canton, Ohio, which he had
acquired by funds belonging one-third to himself, one-third to
the children of a deceased brother, and one-third to a sister.
In his will he made a request that the whole interest should be
retained in the company, under the control of his brother, so
long as the latter should deem it profitable. His own interest
he bequeathed to his brother in trust for himself and certain
hephews and nieces mentioned, in equal proportions, to be held
and controlled by him so long as he should deem it advisable.
Several other bequests were made by the testator to different
parties, and the payment of an annuity to one of his brothers
was directed. Soon afterwards Benjamin purchased the interest of Tower in the company, and then the firm name was
changed to that of B. T. Renick & Co.
In September, 1873, the complainants, Palmer C. Smith and
Job R. Renick, were appointed administrators de bonis non with
the will annexed of the estate of Huston. And when the second note of Harvey was about maturing, application was made
to Smith, as such administrator, to consent to extend the time
of its payment and that of the third note. After some negotiation, and the maturity of one of the notes, Smith signed an
agreement, in -which, after reciting that the notes were the
property of the estate of Re-nick Huston, deceased; that a suit
was pending in Ohio affecting the property of the estate, and
that until its termination it was desirable that the money should
be invested; and that other parties -the West Chicago Land
Company, to which portions of the real property had been sold
had assumed the payment of the notes and interest, he stipu-

Oct. 1879.]

SMITH V. AYER.

lated not to press the payment of the notes until such time as
he should require the money by reason of the termination of
the suit, the extension in no event to exceed two years. This
agreement bears date Sept. 12, 1874. The parties who had
assumed the obligation to pay the notes were not content with
the agreement without the signature of Benjamin Renick, executor of the estate of Thomas Renick, as the notes were in his
possession and were payable to the order of his testator. After
a good deal of negotiation, his signature, as executor of the estate
of Thomas Renick, was obtained to a similar agreement for an
extension of time, stipulating that he also would not press the
payment of the notes unless he should require the money to
make a settlement of that estate. It does not, however, contain the recital of the one signed by Smith, that the notes were
the property of the estate of Huston. This agreement was not
executed until the 19th of February, 1875, though it was dated
back to the date of the one signed by Smith, and both agreements were placed in the hands of one James R. Goodman.
On the same day the following indorsement was made on each
of the notes:
"FEB. 19, 1879.

"Payment of the within notes extended, as per contract of Sept.
12, 1874, now in the hands of James R. Goodman, Esq., for a period
not exceeding two years from July 15, 1874.
"J. EDWARDS FAY, Trustee, dc.
"B. T. RxEIcK,
"Executor and Trustee of Thomas T. Renick, deceased."

In May following, the firm of B. T. Renick & Co., the successors, as mentioned, of Tower, Classen, & Co., applied, through
a broker in New York, to the defendants, J. C. Ayer & Co., of
Lowell, Mass., for a loan of $39,250, and offered to pledge as
collateral security for the money one of the notes of Joel A.
Harvey, given upon the purchase of the land near Chicago, and
secured by a trust-deed of the property. Ayer & Co. agreed
to make the loan if the security was approved by their attorney,
to whom it was referred to examine and report as to its sufficiency. The attorney made the examination. He testifies
that he examined the two notes of Harvey and the deed of trust
securing them, an abstract of title to the land, and a copy of the

SMiTH V. AYER.

[Sup. Ct.

will of Thomas T. Renick; that le talked with the trustee
under the trust-deed, and with Benjamin Renick, the executor
of Thomas T. Renick, in whose possession the notes were at the
time; that Benjamin informed him that he wished to use the
money borrowed in the business of B. T. Renick & Co., manufacturers of chromatic printing-presses; that the establishment
was the one designated in the will as that of Tower, Classen, &
Co. ; and that the notes had each the indorsement of the extension mentioned. The attorney reported to Ayer & Co. that the
security was valid and sufficient to pay the notes, and advised
them to take the note first maturing. Immediately afterwards
he was directed to complete the loan. He accordingly took the
note of B. T. Renick & Co. for $39,250, dated May 26, 1875,
payable to Ayer & Co., at their office in Lowell, Mass., and, as
collateral security, received the note first falling due of Harvey
for the same amount, both of which he transmitted to Ayer &
Co. It is to compel a surrender of this note to the complainants that the first of the above-named suits is brought.
In June following this transaction, the firm of B. T. Renick
& Co. desired a further loan of $30,000, and employed J.
Edwards Fay to obtain it on the security of the third note of
Harvey for $39,250. Fay applied to the First National Bank of
Westboro', Mass., for the loan. He showed to its officers the
note of Harvey, having the indorsement extending the time of
payment for a period not exceeding two years, pursuant to the
agreement deposited with Goodman, and informed them of the
trust-deed executed to him to secure its payment. The indorsement, as already seen, showed that the note was held by B. T.
Renick as executor. He also told them of the loan made by
Ayer & Co. upon the security of the second note, the examination then made by their attorney into the sufficiency of the
security and his favorable report. He also mentioned the relation which Benjamin Renick, as executor of Thomas T. Renick,
deceased, bore to the firm of B. T. Renick & Co., and that he
made the application for the loan at the request of that firm.
The bank thereupon agreed to make the loan. A note of B. T.
Renick & Co., for $30,000, dated June 1, 1875, payable on the
15th of July, 1876, was accordingly executed and delivered to
it, with the note of Harvey as collateral security, and the money

Oct. 1879.]

SMITH v. AyEn.

received. It is to compel a surrender to the complainants of
the note thus pledged as collateral that the second of the above
suits is brought. Soon after the bills were filed, Benjamin Renick resigned his bosition as executor of the estate of Thomas T.
Renick, and Edward J. Van Meter was appointed in his place.
as administrator de bonis non with the will annexed, and by
leave of the court a supplemental bill was filed in both cases,
and he was allowed to appear in each as a co-complainant and
join in the prayer for relief.
There is no question as to the actual ownership of the notes
of Harvey taken by Ayer & Co. and the First National Bank
of Westboro'. They belong to the estate of Renick Huston.
The only interest which Thomas T. Renick had in them grew
out of his relations to that estate for advances and services and
as a residuary legatee. The question for determination is
whether Ayer & Co. and the bank took the notes under such
circumstances as to be able to hold them or either of them
against the demand of Huston's estate, or of that of the estate
of Thomas T. Renick, from whose executor they were received.
So far as the present suits are concerned, it is of no consequence
to the defendants whether the notes be regarded ultimately as
the property of the estate of Huston or of the estate of Thomas
T. Renick. They can only insist that, as in their negotiations
they knew nothing of the claims of Huston's estate, and dealt
with the notes as the property of Renick's estate, they shall be
entitled to all the protection which that fact may confer. We
shall so treat the cases and consider their rights. There is no
doubt that Ayer & Co. relied entirely upon the judgment of
their attorney as to the power of the executor of the estate of
Thomas T. Renick to pledge the note for moneys borrowed to
be used in the business of the firm of B. T. Renick & Co. Still
they must be held to know the law, and the limitations which
it prescribes to the powers of executors in the disposition of
property coming into their hands as such officers; and, however
free from intentional wrong, they must bear the responsibility
of a mistaken judgment with respect to those limitations. The
facts brought to the knowledge of their attorney in his inquiries
respecting the note and the authority of Benjamin T. Renick
to pledge it are considered in law as brought to their knowledge.

SimniH v. AYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Information to him of all essential matters affecting the subject
he was investigating was in law information to them, and their
action must be adjudged accordingly. The law, indeed, goes
much further than this: it considers the principal as affected
with notice of all facts, notice of which can be charged upon
the attorney. Here the attorney examined the will of Thomas
T. Renick; he knew that the note in question was held by Benjamin T. Renick in his character as executor of Thomas' estate,
and not in his own right; the agreement referred to in its indorsement of extension of time of payment made him acquainted
with that fact. It stipulated not to press for payment of the
note until the money was required for the settlement of that
estate; and he was informed beforehand that the money to be
borrowed on the pledge of the note in question as security was
to be used in the business of B. T. Renick & Co.
The Bank of Westboro' had no attorney of its own in the
transaction. It relied upon the representations of the attorney
of B. T. Renick & Co., employed to negotiate the loan. He
informed the bank, however, of all facts essential to its knowledge, or acquainted it with such matters as upon inquiry would
have given the information. It knew that the note was held
by B. T. Renick as assets of Thomas T. Renick's estate, and
not in his own right; it was so informed by the attorney; the
indorsement on the note declared the fact also; and the agreement to which the indorsement referred, and to which its attention was called, would have removed all doubt on the subject, if
any could have existed. It must be presumed to have known
what it could thus easily have ascertained; and, dealing with
an executor exercising his power of disposition of the personal
assets of an estate in his bands, ostensibly to raise money, not
for the estate or the settlement of its affairs, but for the business
of a commercial firm, it was bound to look into his authority to
make such a disposition of them, and is held to a knowledge of
all the limitations which the will as well as the law put upon
his power.
There is no doubt that, unless restrained by statute, an
executor can dispose of the personal assets of his testator by sale
or pledge for all purposes connected with the discharge of his
duties under the will. And even where the sale or pledge is

Oct. 1879.]

SMITH V. AYER.

made for other purposes, of which the purchaser or pledgee has
no knowledge or notice, but takes the property in good faith,
the transaction will be sustained; for the purchaser or pledgee
is not bound to see to the disposition of the proceeds received.
But the case is otherwise where the purchaser or pledgee has
knowledge of the perversion of the property to other purposes
than those of the estate, or the intended perversion of the proceeds. The executor, though holding the title to the personal
assets, is not absolute owner of them. They are not liable for
his debts, nor can he dispose of them by will. He holds them
in trust to pay the debts of the deceased, and then to discharge
his legacies; and, as in all other cases of trust, he is personally
responsible for any breach of duty. And property thus held,
acquired from him by third parties with knowledge of his trust
and his disregard of its obligations, can be followed and recovered. The law exacts the most perfect good faith from all
parties dealing with a trustee respecting trust property. Whoever takes it for an object other than the general purposes of
the trust, or such as may reasonably be supposed to be within
its scope, must look to the authority of the trustee, or he will
act at his peril.
The adjudications in support of this doctrine are very numerous. The doctrine pervades the whole law of trusts. In Colt
v. Lasnier, reported in 9th Cowen, Chief Justice Savage, of the
Supreme Court of New York, after reviewing the cases, concludes that the correct rule both in England and in that State
is, "That any person receiving from an executor the assets of
his testator, knowing that this disposition of them is a violation
of his duty, is to be adjudged as conniving with the executor,
and that such person is responsible for the property thus received, either as purchaser or pledgee." And so in many cases
it has been held that the payment by the executor of his own
private debt with the assets of the testator is a devastavit; that
is, a wasting of the estate. There are, indeed, some exceptions
to this, as where the executor has paid debts of the testator
with his own money to the value of the assets used. But, beyond a few exceptions of this kind, such a use of the assets is
considered entirely indefensible, and the party receiving them
will not be permitted to retain them, on the ground that the

SMITH V. AYER.

[Sup. at.

transaction itself gives him notice of their misapplication, and
thus necessarily involves him as a participator in the fraud.
And the doctrine is supported by many authorities that where
a party has reasonable grounds for believing that an executor
intends to misapply them, or is in the very transaction converting them to private uses, such party can take no advantage
from the transaction. In the case of Miller v. Willianson, the
Court of Appeals of Maryland held that the fact that the executor made an assignment of such assets to secure a debt owing
to parties by a mercantile firm of which he was a member, was
sufficient, in contemplation of law, to notify them that he was
about to commit a devastavit. 5 Md. 219. And where an administrator had assigned promissory notes of the estate in his
hands for goods for his own use, the Supreme Court of Indiana
held that it was a waste of the assets; and that if the assignee
had knowledge, even from the nature of the transaction, that
the administrator was thus acting in violation of his trust, the
right of property in the notes was not divested, and he could
not hold the notes or profit by such assignment as against those
rightfully entitled to them. Tkomasson, Admr., v. Brown, 43
Ind. 203. See also Field v. S&hieffelin, 7 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch.
150, and Petriev. Clark, 11 Serg. & R. (Pa.) 377.
In the cases at bar, the defendants Ayer & Co. and the
directors of the bank knew that the pledging of the assets of the
estate, of which Benjamin T. Renick was executor, to secure a
loan for the business of a commercial house, was a misuse of
them, unless, indeed, the will of his testator authorized it. The
law imputed such knowledge to them. They could not say that
such assets could be rightfully used as collateral security for
loans to be employed in the business of a commercial house.
It would be attributing to them the lack of ordinary good sense
to suppose they entertained any such notion. The question
then arises, whether the will of Thomas T. Renick authorized
the assets of his estate, or the moneys to be raised upon them,
to be used in the business of B. T. Renick & Co.
In that will the testator mentions a certain interest in the
firm of Tower, Classen, & Co., acquired by funds belonging to
him, a sister, and the children of a deceased brother, and he
desired that such interest should be continued in the firm, under

Oct. 1879.]

SmITH v. A.YER.

the control of his brother, so long as the latter should deem it
profitable; and that his own share should be retained in like
manner for certain parties, so long as he should deem it advisable; and he bequeathed it to him as trustee for that purpose.
It did not authorize the use of any of the general assets of the
testator in that business, or the borrowing of money on its
account. It may, indeed, be doubted whether the new firm
of B. T. Renick & Co. can be considered as the same firm as
Tower, Classen, & Co. The change of the old firm by Tower's
withdrawal may have taken from it the person upon whose
judgment alone the testator relied for a wise management of
its business. We cannot say that a confidence reposed in the
firm which existed when the will was made would have been
extended to another firm consisting of different associates.
But, assuming that its identity remained after the change of
members and name, it is perfectly clear that the authority of
the executor to continue a specifically designated existing interest in the firm did not extend to the use in its business of any
other funds of the estate, or to the use of any property which
he received in his official character, to raise funds for that
purpose. In Burwell v. Mandeville's Executors, reported in
2d Howard, this doctrine is stated by this court with great
distinctness. There the testator and one Cawood had been
partners, and in his will the testator desired that his interest
in the partnership should be continued until the expiration of
the term limited by the articles between them, the business to
be continued by his partner, and the profit and loss to be distributed in the manner there provided. After his death, his
partner carried on the business of the partnership, but failed
before the expiration of the stipulated term; and the object of
the suit was to reach the general assets of the estate of the
testator to pay certain debts of the firm contracted after his
decease. It was held that the general assets were not thus
liable. The court observed that it was competent for partners
to provide by agreement for the continuance of the partnership
after the death of one of them; or for one partner by his will
to provide for the continuance of the partnership after his
death, and if it was consented to by the surviving partner, it
would become obligatory. "But then," continues the court,

SmTH V. AYE.[

[Sup. 0t.

speaking through Mr. Justice Story, "in each case the agreement or authority must be clearly made out; and third persons,
having notice of the death, are bound to inquire how far the
agreement or authority to continue it extends, and what funds
it binds; and if they trust the surviving party beyond the reach
of such agreement, or authority, or fund, it is their own fault,
and they have no right to complain that the law does not afford
them any satisfactory redress. A testator, too, directing the
continuance of a partnership, may, if he so choose, bind his
general assets for all the debts of the partnership contracted
after his death. But he may also limit his responsibility, either
to the funds already embarked in the trade, or to any specific
amount to be invested therein for that purpose; and then the
creditors can resort to that fund or amount only, and not to
the general assets of the testator's estate, although the partner,
or executor, or other persons carrying on the trade may be
personally responsible for all the debts contracted." And after
citing several authorities from the English reports in support
of these positions, the learned justice remarks, "That nothing
but the most clear and unambiguous language, demonstrating
in the most positive manner that the testator intends to make
his general assets liable for all debts contracted in the continued
trade after his death, and not merely to limit it to the funds
embarked in that trade, would justify the court in arriving at
such a conclusion from the manifest inconvenience thereof, and
the utter impossibility of paying off the legacies bequeathed
by the testator's will, or distributing the residue of his estate,
without, in effect, saying at the same time that the payments
may all be recalled if the trade should become unsuccessful or
ruinous." Ex parte Garland,10 Yes. Jr. 109; Ex parte Biclardson, i-c., 3 Madd. 79; Pitkin v. Pitkin, 7 Conn. 306; Luchlt,
Adm'r, v. Behrens, 28 Ohio St. 231.
According to the doctrine of this case,- and many others to
the same purport might be cited, -there is no authority in the
will of Thomas T. Renick justifying the use of the general
assets of his estate in the business of B. T. Renick & Co., even
if this firm be identical with that of Tower, Classen, & Co.
Applying the notes of Harvey held by his executor, or using
them to obtain money for that purpose, was a misappropriation

Oct. 1879.]

SMITH V. AYER.

of them, as much so as if they had been used for any other
private business. The parties receiving them, knowing of the
directions of the testator, cannot hold them against the claim
of his representatives. The resignation of the executor who
connived at this misappropriation having been accepted, and
the administrator de bonis non with the will annexed having
been appointed in his place, there is no objection to the prosecution of the suits in the latter's name, in conjunction with the
representatives of Huston's estate, to compel the restoration of
the notes. And as the notes in fact belong to the estate of Huston, the administrators de bonis non of that estate may insist
that, when they are returned by Ayer & Co. and the National
Bank of Westboro', they shall be delivered over to them.
In what we have thus said of the misappropriation of the
notes, we have assumed that they belonged to the estate of
Thomas T. Renick; for the defendants Ayer & Co. and the
Bank of Westboro' contend that they had a right to so treat
them, as they were in the possession of his executor, claiming
them as part of the assets of his testator. But the want of
authority on the part of the executor to pledge them is only
the more marked from the fact that his testator only held them
as executor for another estate, although that fact has not been
allowed to affect the defence.
The decree in each case must, therefore, be reversed, and
the court below directed to enter a decree, in the first case,
that the defendants, Ayer & Co., surrender the note of Harvey taken by them to the complainants, the administrators de
onlis non of the estate of Renick Huston; and that a like
decree be entered in the second case against the First National
Bank of Westboro', to surrender to the same complainants the
other note of Harvey held by it, and that all other parties
be enjoined from interfering with their collection of the said
notes; and it is
So ordered.
NOTE.-A petition for a rehearing in the first case, and for a modification
of the decree in the second case, having been filed, at a subsequent day of the

term,
JUSTICE FiEw) delivered the opinion of the court.
The petition for a rehearing in the first case, and the petition for a modification of the decree in the second case, are both denied. The pledging of the notes
31n.

WATER-METEt Co. v. DESPER.

[Sup. Ct.

of Harvey, belonging to the estate of Renick Huston, or to the estate of Thomas
T. Renick, - and for the purposes of these suits it matters not to which, as the
representatives of both estates are parties complainant, - as security for moneys
borrowed for the use of a mercantile firm, was a plain misappropriation of the
property of one of the estates. Our decree was that the notes should be returned to the representative of the estate from which it was wrongfully taken.
The defendants retain their claims against the firm of B. T. Rlenick & Co., on its
notes, and can prosecute them before the ordinary tribunals; and if any members of the firm have interests in the estate of Renick Huston, or of other deceased parties, they can seek to subject those interests to the payment of the
claims without prejudice from our decree in these cases.
Petitions denied.

WATER-METER

OMPANY

v.

DEsPER.

1. While letters-patent for a combination are not infringed if a material part of
it is omitted, yet if a part which is only formally omitted is supplied by a
mechanical equivalent performing the same office and producing the same
result, they are infringed.
2. The courts in this country cannot declare that any one of the elements entering into such a combination is immaterial. They can only decide
whether a part omitted by the alleged infringer is supplied by an equivalent device.
3. Reissued letters-patent No. 5806, granted March 24, 1874, being a reissue of
original letters No. 109,372 granted Nov. 22, 1870, to Phinehas Ball, and
Benaiah Fitts, for an improvement in liquid meters, are not infringed by
letters-patent No. 144,747, granted Nov. 18, 1873, to Henry A. Desper, for
an improvement in fluid meters.

API'.AL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Andrew MeCallum for the appellant.
Mr. T. -E.Maynadier, contra.
. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the Union Water-Meter Company, the appellant, to restrain the infringement of a patent
and for an account of profits and damages. The letters-patent
alleged to be infringed are reissued letters No. 5806, being
a reissue of original letters-patent No. 109,872, granted 22d
M

