Ot. 1879.]

HOLLINGSWORTH V. FLINT.

HOLLINGSwORTH v. FLINT.
In an action of trespass to try the title to lands in Texas, the plaintiff put in
evidence a grant of them to A., as shown by certified copies of papers from
the general land-office of that State. He then offered a deed from A. to B.
for other and different lands, and one from C. and wife, the latter being the
only heir-at-law of A., reciting that there was a misdescription in A.'s deed,
and releasing, alienating, and conveying to B. the lands in the declaration
mentioned. The acknowledgment of the deed of C. and wife required by the
laws of that State to pass the estate of a married woman was not made until
after the commencement of the suit. The plaintiff also offered a deed to him
from the heirs-at-law of B. for all the lands belonging to the latter at the
time of his decease or to which he was then entitled, but did not propose to
show that B. had any title to the lands other than that shown by the other
deeds. The deeds were excluded, and the jury instructed to find for the defendants. Hdd, that the action of the court was proper.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Western District of Texas.
This was an action of trespass to try the title to certain lands

in Texas, brought by Thomas J. Hollingsworth against John T.
Flint and D. T. Chamberlain. Flint filed a disclaimer of title.
Chamberlain also filed a disclaimer as to several tracts embraced

in the eleven leagues sued for, and as to the remainder pleaded
not guilty and the Statute of Limitations. The jury found a
verdict for the defendants, and judgment having been rendered

thereon, Hollingsworth sued out this writ of error.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3r. PhilipPhillips,Mr. Bethel Coopwood, and Mir. W. Hallett

Phillips for the plaintiff in error.
A31r. A. W. Terrell, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action in trespass to try the title to eleven leagues
of land situated in the counties of Bell, Milam, and Williamson, State of Texas, on what was once called San Andres River,
ncw known as Little River, a tributary of the Brazos.
In support of his claim the plaintiff read in evidence, without
objection, certified copies from the general land-office in Texas,
of numerous papers, constituting, together, a grant of the land
in controversy to Miguel Davila, a native and resident of Leona

HOLLINGSWORTH V. FLINT.

[Stup. Or:-

Vacario, the capital of the department of Coahuila and Texas,
as constituted in the year 1880. These papers, including the
official survey made by the surveyor-general, show that the
land embraced in that grant was "located on the right or south
bank of San Andres River, at the point where the creeks - Buffalo Creek and Donahoe's Creek - empty into said river."
The limits, boundaries, and corners of the land thus granted
are given in detail.
The plaintiff then offered in evidence an original deed, in
the Spanish language, purporting to have been executed by the
grantee, Davila, to James Hewetson, at the city of Saltillo, on
the 7th of May, 1839, before its acting mayor, and by which
Davila sold and conveyed to Hewetson, for the consideration
of $200, "eleven leagues of land, obtained from the public
domain by virtue of a permit issued for them to him by the
executive of the State of Coahuila and Texas, by order of July
18, 1830, which leagues are situated ten on the waters of the
creek called Chocktaw of the Red River, and the eleventh between
Sulphur Pork Creek of Red River, and the south fork of said
creek, distant about twenty miles west of the road leading from
Nacogdoches to Kiamichi, of the same Red River, the survey of
which is embodied in the patent issued at Angelina, jurisdi:tion
of Nacogdoches, on the 30th of January, 1886, by Don Vicente
Aldrete, commissioner appointed for that purpose by the aforesaid executive." That patent the officer before whom the
deed was executed certified he had seen, read, and then passed
and delivered to ffewetson.
In connection with the offer to read that deed the court, by
request of the defendants, and without objection upon the part
of the plaintiff, considered certain other papers, also certified
from the general land-office in Texas, which, together, constituted the title or grant to Davila of eleven leagues of land in
the Red River region, the locality and boundaries of which, as
set forth in those papers, corresponds exactly with the foregoing description of the eleven leagues embraced in the deed
to Hewetson.
The defendants then objected to the introduction of the Hewetson deed upon the ground that it did not convey, or purport
to convey, the land in controversy, and was, therefore, irrele-

" Oct. 1879.]

HOLLINGSWORTH
9

v.

FLINT.

vant and inadmissible. The objection was sustained, and the
deed excluded, to which action of the court the plaintiff excepted.
1. This ruling of the court below is the subject of the first
assignment of error. We are of opinion that the deed was
properly excluded. The plaintiff's petition alleged title in
himself to eleven leagues of land, granted to Miguel Davila, described as eleven leagues of land "situate on the right or south
bank of the San Andres River, at the place where Buffalo Creek
and Donahoe's Creek empty into said river." The papers read
in evidence by plaintiff, and constituting the final title, as
shown upon the records of the general land-office, to the eleven
leagues thus described, show that the survey of that body of
land was made by Surveyor-General Johnson, and that the
patent, based upon that survey, was issued Oct. 18, 1833, by
L. Lessassier, mayor of the city of San Felipe de Austin. We
have seen that the deed from Davila to Hewetson describes
eleven leagues of land situated in a different part of the State,
distant, as the court may judicially know, about two hundred
miles from the land described in the petition and in the papers
previously read in evidence as constituting the grant to Davila
of the land in dispute. This is rendered absolutely certain by
an examination of the several papers constituting the grant to
Davila of the eleven leagues of land on the waters of Red River.
From those papers it appears, That on the 10th of July, 1830, Davila made application
for a grant by sale to him of eleven leagues of land of the public domain of the department of Coahuila and Texas;
That this application was granted on the 13th of July, 1830,
with an order to the alcalde of the municipality to put Davila
in possession after the land was located;
That on the 17th of May, 1834, Davila executed to James
Hewetson an irrevocable power of attorney, authorizing him to
select out of the public domain of the State the eleven leagues
of land conceded to Davila in the year 1830;
That on the 5th of June, 1834, Hewetson executed to M. B.
Menard, of Nacogdoches, a power of substitution, which on
the 24th of May, 1835, was revoked, and the authority which
Hewetson had received from Davila was conferred upon one
John Cameron;
vor. xz.

HOLINGSWORTH V. FLINT.

[Sup. Ct.

That on the 27th of July, 1885, George Aldrich, surveyor,
under an order from the special commissioner appointed by the
governor of the State, of date July 2, 1835, surveyed one of
the eleven leagues "between Sulphur Fork of Red River and
the south branch of. said creek, about twenty miles west of the
Toad leading from Nacogdoches to Kiamichi, of the Red River;"
and on the 3d of November, 1835, he surveyed the remaining
ten leagues "on the waters of the creek called Choctaw Bayou
of Red River;"
That these surveys were transmitted to the special commissioner, who, by order of Jan. 30, 1836, directed title to issue;
and it was so issued on that day, the final paper describing the
land exactly as set forth in the'deed to Hewetson, and referring, by way of identification, to the field-notes of the surveyor, Aldrich.
While the origin of the title of the eleven leagues on the San
Andres River, as well as of the eleven leagues on the Red River,
may have been an application of Davila on the thirtieth day
of July, 1830, it is perfectly clear that there were, in fact, surveys of two distinct bodies of land, widely separated, resulting
in grants to Davila of two different tracts of eleven leagues
each. This is shown, partly, by the fact that the final document
in the title for the eleven leagues on the San Andres River was
executed by Lessassier on the 18th of October, 1833, at San
Felipe-de Austin, while that for the eleven leagues on Red
River was executed by Special Commissioner Vicente Aldrete, at Angelina, and not until Jan. 80, 1836. The former
body of land was embraced in one survey, made by SurveyorGeneral Johnson, while the latter was surveyed by Aldrich,
and was embraced in two surveys, one of which called for ten
leagues, and the other for one league.
It thus 'appears that the plaintiff, in support of his title to
eleven leagues of land on the ;San Andres River, offered to
read a deed which' upon its face clearly and, in connection
with the papers relating to the Red River lands, incontestably
showe, that the land it purported to convey was not the land
described in the petition, and the title to which was in dispute.
The contention of the plaintiff is that it was for the jury to
say whether the land described in the Hewetson deed was the

Oct. 1879.]

O 9oLLINGSWORTH v.

FLINT.

same land which in the title papers read in evidence was described as situated on San Andres River. No such conclusion
could, however, have been fairly reached by the jury consistently with the evidence. The deed was unambiguous in its
terms; and whether interpreted by its own language, or in the
light of the papers constituting the grant to the Red River
lands, there was no ground whatever to infer that Davila, by
the conveyance of lands on Red River, intended to convey the
title to lands on San Andres River.
Whether the grant to Davila of the lands on Red River was
void by reason of the prohibition against uniting more than
eleven leagues in the same lands, or because of the declaration
in the Texas Constitution of 1836, to the effect "that all surveys and locations made since the act of the late consultation
closing the land-offices and all titles made since that time are
null and void," it is not necessary to inquire. For, if that
proposition be conceded, it is nevertheless manifest that the
papers constituting the grant to the Red River lands, read
without objection, were evidence in illustration or explanation
of the excluded deed; and they utterly negative the idea that
the grantor, by a conveyance of eleven leagues, situated on the
Choctaw and Sulphur Creeks of the Red River (quoting from
the deed), "the survey of which is embodied in the patent issued at Angelina, jurisdiction of Nacogdoches, on the thirtieth
day of January, 1836, before Don Vicente Aldrete, commissioner," &c., intended to pass the title to eleven leagues of
land on San Andres River, the final title to which passed by
patent issued Oct. 18, 1833, at the city of San Felipe de Austin, by L. Lessassier, mayor of said city and its municipality.
It is scarcely necessary to cite the authority of text-writers,
or of adjudged cases in the Supreme Court of Texas or elsewhere, to prove that the deed was inadmissible as evidence in
support of plaintiff's title to the land described in the petitions
and in the papers read in evidence by him as donstituting the
original grant to Davila of eleven leagues on San Andres
River. The deed conveys lands that were surveyed and located in the Red River region. It was, therefore, inadmissible
for the plaintiff in this action, in any view which may be properly taken of the case.

596

flOLLINGSWORTn

V. FLINT.

[Sup.

Ct.

2. The plaintiff then offered in evidence a deed from Inez
(the legitimate daughter and only heir-at-law of 'Miguel Davila)
and her husband, dated Sept. 28, 1869. It was acknowledged
by the wife on the 12th of September, 1876, upon privy examination before the consul of the United States for Saltillo
and its dependencies, and by the husband a few days thereafter. That deed recited that Miguel Davila had many years
before sold to James Hewetson his concession of eleven leagues
of land on the San Andres River, and had on May 7, 1869,
by public act conveyed the same to said Hewetson, "describing
said land by mistake as being situated in another part of Texas
instead of where it was in fact situated." The deed ratifies and
confirms the sale to HIewetson, and releases and conveys to him
all the right, title, and interest of the grantors.
That deed, upon the objection of defendants, was also excluded, which ruling constitutes the next error assigned by the
plaintiff.
No error was committed in rejecting that deed as evidence
in support of plaintiff's claim. This action was 'commenced
in 1874. At that time the deed had not been acknowledged so
as to pass the title, if any, which the female grantee had in the
premises in controversy. Her interest in the land, if any she
had, was her separate estate, of which she could not, under
the laws of Texas, be divested, except by the conveyance of
.herself and husband, and after her privy examination before
the proper officer. Such examination had not taken place
when this action was commenced. The plaintiff could not
avail himself in this action of a title acquired, or which did
not subsist in him until, after he commenced suit. The title
at the beginning of the action was the question to be tried.
3. The plaintiff finally offered to readin evidence a deed
purporting to have been executed in 1873 by the heirs of
James Hewetson to the plaintiff and another. This deed was
very properly excluded upon the ground that the plaintiff had
failed to connect himself with the sovereignty of the soil, and
declined to state that he expected to show any other title than
that previously offered.
The court thereupon instructed the jury, as was its duty to
do, to find for the defendants.
Judgment affirmed.

