Oct. 1879.]

LUMBER

Co. v. BUcHTEL.

Other like cases might be multiplied to an indefinite extent.
It is unnecessary to incumber this opinion with further references. The grounds upon which they proceed are, that a thing
is to be regarded as certain which can be made certain; that
evidence can be adduced to apply the contract to its subject;
that where there is enough to put those concerned upon inquiry, the means of knowledge and knowledge itself are, in
legal effect, the same thing.
A multo fortiori was it proper to receive the evidence referred to in the present case.
See, in this connection, also, Chester and Others v. The Bank
of KEingston, 16 N. Y. 336, and Horn v. Keteltas, 46 id. 605.
-Decree affirmed.

LU3mBER

OtPA.y v. BUCHTEL.

1. A. contracted to sell B. a tract of pine land at a stipulated sum, payable in
future instalments, a conveyance to be made only upon payment of the
several sums as they became due, the cutting or removal of the timber being
in the mean time prohibited without the written permission of A. Two
days afterwards B. assigned the contract to C. A. assented to the assignment, and gave C. permission to enter the lands and cut and remove the
timber, in consideration whereof the latter guaranteed the payments stipulated in the contract., The first instalment due not having been paid, A.
brought suit against C. upon the guaranty. The latter set up the defence
that he was induced to enter into the undertaking by the false and fraudulent representation of A. as to the quantity of good merchantable timber
contained in the tract. The case was, by stipulation of the parties, tried
before a referee, who reported that the representations were made by an
agent of B., and that he did "not find" that A. participated therein. Held,
1. That A.'s grant of permission to C. to cut and remove the timber was
the release of an important security to him against possible loss if payment
were not made on the contract, and that the guaranty was a reasonable
exaction from 0. therefor. 2. That said representations not coming from
A., nor relating to the permission to cut and remove the timber, did not
release C. from liability on the guaranty.
2. The objection cannot be made for the first time in this court, that the report
of the referee finds certain facts inferentially and not directly.
3. Smble, that the finding of a referee should have the precision of a special
verdict, specifying with distinctness the facts, and not leaving them to be
inferred.

LUamBER 00. V. BUCHTEL.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROB to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Emery A. Storrs for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Mitchell J. Smiley, Mr. 0. H. Simonds, and Hr. . A.
]Iletcher, contra.
MP. JusTicm FELD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 23d of September, 1874, William Buchtel, the plaintiff in the court below, the defendant in error here, contracted
to sell to the Big Rapids Improvement and Manufacturing
Company, a corporation created under the laws of Michigan,
several hundred acres of pine land in that State for the sum of
$12,273.84, payable as follows: $3,068.46 on the first of the
following January, and the balance in three equal annual instalments, with interest. Nothing was paid by the company at
the time, and the contract provided for the execution of a conveyance to it only upon the payment of the sums stipulated as
they became due, and it prohibited in the mean time the cutting
or'removal of the timber without the written permission of the
vendor.
Two days after its execution, the contract was assigned in
writing by the Improvement and Manufacturing Company to
the defendant, the Mason Lumber Company, also a corporation
of Michigan. To this assignment the vendor assented, and gave
permission to the Lumber Company to enter -upon the lands
and cut and remove the timber; and in consideration of this
permission, that company guaranteed the payments stipulated
in the contract. In the negotiation which resulted in the execution of the guaranty, the Improvement and Manufacturing
Company was represented by its vice-president, Mr. Bronson;
and the Lumber Company by its president, Mr. Mason.
The payment due on the first of January, 1875, not having
been made, the present action was brought by the vendor,
Buchtel, upon the guaranty, against the Lumber Company.
The company pleaded the general issue, and gave notice that
it would give in evidence, and insist as a defence to the action,
that it was induced to enter into the undertaking by the false
and fraudulent representation of the plaintiff that the lands

Oct . 1879.]

LUmBER

Co. v.

BUCHTEL.

contained 5,700,000 feet of good merchantable pine timber;
whereas, in fact, there were only 1,500,000 feet of such timber
on the land, and that thereby it had sustained damages to the
amount of $20,000, which it would recoup against the claim of
the plaintiff and ask to have the balance certified in its favor.
By the law of Michigan, damages, whether liquidated or not,
claimed by a defendant as arising out of the contract or transaction upon which an action is brought, may be set up by way
of recoupment against the demand of the plaintiff; and, if
found to exceed such demand, the defendant can have judgment for the balance. The case was, by stipulation of parties,
tried before a referee, who reported in favor of the plaintiff for
the amount claimed, with interest. He also found, as a matter
of fact, that Bronson, who acted for the Improvement and
Manufacturing Company in the transaction in which the assignment and guaranty were made, exhibited at the time to Mason,
who acted for the Lumber Company, a plat of the lands in the
presence of the plaintiff, and represented that they contained
5,000,000 feet of good merchantable pine timber; whereas, as
a matter of fact, they contained only 1,237,19T feet of such
timber; but that there was a large quantity of additional timber which was poor, the defects of which could not be discovered until after it was cut. He further found that the plaintiff
had never seen the lands, and that the Lumber Company was
aware of the fact; and that all the knowledge he had of the
quantity of the timber was derived from an estimate furnished
to him by his grantor. The referee also states in his report
that "he does not find" that the plaintiff's attention was called
to the plat exhibited, or that he made any representations in
relation to the quantity of timber on the land, or that he had
any knowledge of the quantity at the time, or that the estimate
furnished to him by his grantor was before him, or that he
alluded to it, or that the representations of Bronson to Mason
as to the quantity of the timber were made in his hearing.
Exceptions were taken to the report, and overruled by the court
below.
The only questions presented by the record which merit consideration are, 1st, Whether the false and fraudulent representations

636

LUMBER

Co. v.

BUCHTEL.

[Sup. Ct.

assuming that they were fraudulent as well as false - of the
agent of the Improvement and Manufacturing Company to the
agent of the Lumber Company, as to the quantity of timber on
the lands purchased, in which representations the plaintiff did
not participate, released the defendant from liability on its
guaranty; and,
2d, Whether the report of the referee is fatally defective
because it finds certain facts inferentially and not directly.
Neither of the questions thus raised is at all difficult of solution. The contract of guaranty of the Lumber Company was
executed to the plaintiff as a consideration for his permission
to enter upon the land and cut and remove the timber in
advance of the stipulated payments. The provision against
the cutting or removal of the timber, without such consent,
was a most important one to him. It secured him against a
possible loss if the payments were not made. The granting of
permission to the Lumber Company was releasing that security,
and giving to the company the principal value of the -property
in advance of payment. The guaranty was a reasonable exaction for it. The representations of the Improvement Company,
through its officers, to the officers of the Lumber Company, as
to the supposed amount of timber on the land, to induce the
latter to execute the guaranty and thus obtain the permission
of the plaintiff, cannot be allowed to mar or defeat the contract
with him, as he knew nothing of their being made, and was
ignorant of the subject to which they related. It was the same
thing to him whether insufficient or adequate consideration
passed between the two companies. He gave to the Lumber
Company a valuable consideration for the guaranty, and has,
therefore, a right to hold that company to the liabilities it
assumed.
The cases cited by counsel to show that a misrepresentation
of material facts inducing a contract, though made in ignorance,
may, in many cases, be the foundation of a suit for its cancellation or modification, have no bearing on the questions here
presented. They apply only where the contract, of which a
rescission or modification is sought, was obtained by the party
claiming its benefit, and the misrepresentations related to the
consideration given for it.

Oct. 1879.]

LUmBER

Co. v.

BUCHTEL.

Thus, in the first case cited, that of Smith v. Richards,
reported in the 13th Peters, the misrepresentation related to
land containing a gold-mine, and was made by the owner to
the vendee to induce its purchase by him. And so it will be
found in all the other cases cited, that the misrepresentations
came from the party holding the contract complained of, and
related to the consideration upon which it was executed.
In the case before us neither of these particulars exists. The
misrepresentations alleged did not come from the plaintiff, the
holder of the contract, nor relate to the permission given to
cut and remove the timber. Neither as to the nature or value
of his reserved light to withhold such permission were any
representations made by him, nor could there have been any,
misapprehension of the nature and extent of the guaranty
assumed. Whatever related to other matters which took place
between the two companies was unknown to him and in no
way concerned him.
The report of the referee is undoubtedly defective in the form
in which the statement is made of the plaintiff's want of knowledge as to the misrepresentations of the officers of the Improvement Company. The findings should have the precision of a
special verdict, and specify with distinctness the facts found,
and not leave them to be inferred. "I do not find" that the
plaintiff knew certain facts, is a defective statement, and ought
not to be received as equivalent to a direct finding that the
plaintiff did not know the facts mentioned; although it is probable that the referee intended it to have that meaning. But
defects of this character in the finding should have been called
to the attention of the court below, and a more definite finding
required of the referee. They cannot be considered here for
the first time. It was for the defendant to see that findings
were had on all matters material to its defence, as it was for
the plaintiff to see that findings were sufficient to support the
judgment in his favor.
Judgment affirmed.

LUMBER

CO. v. BUCHTEL.

[Sup. Ct.

LumBBR CoPAy v. BUCHTEL.
In a suit against B. upon his contract guaranteeing the payment of the purchasemoney of certain land, A. recovered judgment for the first instalment. In a
subsequent suit for the remaining ones, B. set up the same defence as in the
first suit, that the contract was induced by the fraudulent representations of
A. as to the quantity of timber on the land, and he moreover alleged that they
amounted to a warranty, upon the breach of which he was entitled to recoup
the damages sustained. Held, that the judgment, having been rendered upon

the finding of a referee that such representations were not made, is conclusive,
as to the facts found, in all subsequent controversies between the parties on
the contract.

EP.ROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Emery A. Storrs for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Mitchell J. Smiley, Mr. 0. H. Simonds, and .Mr. N. A.
Fletcher, contra.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In the preceding case between these parties we affirmed the
judgment of the court below recovered for the first instalment of
money due upon the contract of purchase of certain timber lands
in Michigan, the payment of which had been guaranteed by the
defendant below, the Lumber Company. The present action
was for the remaining instalments of the purchase-money.
To the first action the defendant set up that it was induced
to make the contract of guaranty by certain false and fraudulent representations of the plaintiff as to the quantity of merchantable timber on the land. To the present action it sets up
the same defence, and also that the representation made as to
the quantity of timber, to induce the execution of the contract,
amounted to a warranty, upon breach of which it was entitled
to recoup the damages sustained. To meet these defences the
plaintiff produced the judgment in the former case; and the
question presented for determination is, whether that judgment
was conclusive.
As to the first defence there can be no doubt that such must
be the effect of the judgment. The case was between the same
parties for the first instalment on the contract guaranteed, and

Oct. 1879.]

RAILWAY CO. V. UNITED STATES.

a recovery was there resisted upon precisely the same ground
here urged.
The extent and effect of a former recovery between the same
parties upon the same question raised in a new action have been
so often considered and determined by this court, that it would
be a waste of time to go over the argument and repeat our
views on the subject. Our latest expression of opinion, made
after deliberate consideration, is found in the case of Cromwell
v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 851. To the reasons there adduced
we have nothing to add. And we are of opinion that the
second defence is also concluded by the former adjudication.
The finding of the referee, upon which the judgment was rendered- and this finding, like the verdict of a jury, constitutes
an essential part of the record of the case - shows that no representations as to the quantity of timber on the land sold were
made to the defendant by the plaintiff or in his hearing to induce the execution of the contract of guaranty. This finding
having gone into the judgment is conclusive as to the facts
found in all subsequent controversies between the parties on
the contract. Every defence requiring the negation of this
fact is met and overthrown by that adjudication.
Judgment affirmed.

RAILWAY Co31ANY v. UNITED STATES.
Where, by the terms of a decree rendered in its favor against a railway company,
the United States was entitled to an execution thereon for a certain sum of
money, and B., another company, the successor of A. and representative of its
interests and assets, by petition prayed that an alleged indebtedness of the
United States to B., contracted since the rendition of the decree, be applied
in payment of that sum, - Held, that inasmuch as the claim of B. does not
arise out of the decree, and the United States is not liable to suit thereon,
except in the Court of Claims, B. is not entitled to the relief prayed for.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Middle District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3 r. Jame8 E. Bailey for the appellant.
!the Attorney-Caeneral and 21.r. Edwin B. Smith, Assistant
Attorney-General, contra.

