Oct. 1879.]

MARQUEZ V. FRISBIE.

IMARQUEZ v. FRISBIE.
1. An injunction or a mandamnus will not lie against an officer of the Land
Department to control him in discharging an official duty which requires
the exercise of his judgment and discretion.
2, A court will not, by reason of its jurisdiction of the parties, determine their
respective rights to a tract of public land, which are the subject-matter of
a pending controversy whereof that department has rightfully taken cognizance, nor will it pass a decree which will render void a patent when it
shall be issued.
3. Where the legal title is vested, the equities subject to which the patentee
holds it may then be judicially enforced, and where that department has
upon the uncontradicted facts committed an error of law by which the
land has been awarded to a party to the prejudice of the right of another,
the latter is entitled to relief.
4. Where, however, there was a mixed question of law and fact, and the court
cannot separate it, so as to ascertain what the mistake of law is, the decision
of that department affirming the right of one of the contesting parties to
enter a tract of public land is conclusive.
5. A. filed his bill in a State court, alleging that, having the requisite qualifications of a pre-emptor, he had settled upon a tract of public land, but that the
proper register and receiver had refused to receive the purchase-money and
issue to him a certificate therefor solely upon the ground that the Department of the Interior had on appeal decided that the tract was not subject
to pre-emption under the general pre-emption laws, and issued an order authorizing the entry of the tract by B., the defendant, who claimed the right
to pre-empt it under a special act of Congress, by which he will be enabled
to receive a patent therefor. The bill does not show what proofs were submitted by B., but alleges that, at the instigation of him and others, the
Commissioner of the General Land-Office fraudulently, and before the act
passed, ordered the surveys of the lands covered by it to be withheld.
The bill prayed that A. be declared to be the true owner of the tract and
to have a paramount title thereto. B. demurred. Held, that the bill was
properly dismissed.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr. Bichard T. Merrick for the
plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
by a petition of the plaintiff in
begun
suit
was
The original
error in the proper court of the State of California, setting
forth several reasons why the decision of the Department of
AIR. JUSTICE MiLLEr

474

MARQUEZ V. FRISBIE.

[Sup. Ct.

the Tnterior against his claim as a pre-emptor, and in favor
of Frisbie and others, to a certain quarter-section of land,
was erroneous, and praying a decree of the court declaring
him to be its true owner and his right to the legal title paramount. The case was heard in the inferior State court on a
demurrer to this petition, which was sustained, and the judgment there rendered against plaintiff was affirmed by the
Supreme Court.
The grounds principally, if not exclusively, relied on by the
counsel of plaintiff in this court,- who so faithfully and earnestly presented his case, are, Ist, That the Land Department
mistook the law of the case and thereby deprived plaintiff of a
vested right in the land. 2d, That their decision was obtained
by fraud.
The petition of the plaintiff, however, is so badly drawn,
and has so many defects, that, sitting here to revise the judgment of two courts of the State of California, we are not able
to discover in the petition that the questions argued here are so
presented as to enable the court to decide them.
There are also objections besides this fatal to the complaint
and the relief asked under it.
One of them is that the principal relief sought, that without which any other would be imperfect, is, that defendants
may be declared to hold the land in trust for plaintiff, and compelled to convey the same accordingly. This undoubtedly means
the legal title to the land, for he alleges that he was in actual
possession at the time of instituting the suit and for a great
many years before. But the bill does not show that the defendants, or either of them, ever had the legal title. On the contrary, it is a necessary conclusion from the allegations of the
bill that the legal title is in the United States. After referring
to the decision of the Secretary of the Interior against his
claim, the petition says, that, "in pursuance of this decision, an
order was issued authorizing the defendants and other purchasers of the Vallejo title to enter the lands claimed by them;
and the said defendants have entered, and will be enabled to
receive a patent for, the said quarter-section." It plainly ap.
pears from this, first, that defendants had not the legal title;
second, that it was in the United States; and, third, that the

Oct. 1879.]

MARQUEZ V. FRISBIE.

matter was still in, fieri, and under the control of the land
officers.
Nothing in record of the case before us gives evidence that
any further steps in that department have been taken in the
case.
We have repeatedly held that the courts will not interfere
with the officers of the government while in the discharge of
their duties in disposing of the public lands, either by injunction or mandamus. Litchfield v. Register and Receiver, 9
Wall. 552; Gaines v. Thompson, 7 id. 347; The Secretary v.
lfc Garrahan, 9 id. 298.
And we think it would be quite as objectionable to permit a
State court, while such a question was under the consideration
and within the control of the executive departments, to take
jurisdiction of the case by reason of their control of the parties
concerned, and render decree in advance of the action of the
government, which would render its patents a nullity when
issued.
Atter the United States has parted with its title, and the individual has become vested with it, the equities subject to which
he holds it may be enforced, but not before. Johnson v. To vsley, 13 id. 72; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330.
We did not deny the right of the courts to deal with the possession of the land prior to the issue of the patent, or to enforce
contracts between the parties concerning the land. But it is
impossible thus to transfer a title which is yet in the United
States.
If, however, we could suppose that defendants had obtained
the patent which the secretary has decided that they are entitled to, that patent and the order on which it issued has in
its favor all the presumptions which such an instrument necessarily carries, to which is to be added in this case the plaintiff's
allegation that it was founded on a decision made after full
contest and repeated hearings, by appeal and otherwise, by the
officers to whom the law has specially confided the adjudication
of that class of cases.
The rule which governs the courts in the effort to correct
any error in such decision has been so repeatedly stated here
as to leave no room for doubt or misconstruction.

476

MARQUEZ V. FRISBIE.

[Sup. Ct.

That principle is that "the decision of the officers of the
land department, made within the scope of their authority,
on questions of this kind, is, in general, conclusive everywhere,
except when considered by way of appeal within that department; and that, as to the facts on which their decision is based,
in the absence of fraud or mistake, that decision is conclusive
even in courts of justice, when the title afterwards comes in
question. But that in this class of cases, as in all others, there
exists in the courts of equity the jurisdiction to correct mistakes,
to relieve against frauds and impositions, and in cases where it
is clear that these officers have, by a mistake of the law,
given to one man the land which, on the undisputed facts,
belonged to another, to give appropriate relief." M3oore v.
Bobbins, 96 U. S. 530, 535; Shepley v. Cowan, supra; Johnson
v. Towsley, supra.
As we have already said, the argument of counsel is that the
bill which was demurred to makes a case of mistake and of
fraud and imposition within the meaning of these decisions.
Let us inquire first into the alleged mistake of law by the
land department.
The language of this court in Moore v. Bobbins, cited above,
is that equity will interfere "when it is clear that these officers
have, by a mistake of the law, given to one man the land
which, on the undisputed facts, belonged to another."
This means, and it is a sound principle, that where there is a
mixed question of law and of fact, and the court cannot so
separate it as to see clearly where the mistake of law is, the
decision of the tribunal to which the law has confided the
matter is conclusive.
But if it can be made entirely plain to a court of equity
that on facts about which there is no dispute, or no reasonable
doubt, those officers have, by a mistake of the law, deprived a
man of his right, it will give relief.
Looking to the complaint in this case, no such clear statement of a mistake of law is to be found. The counsel in his
argument says that the act of March 8, 1863, under which
defendants as vendees of Vallejo entered the land, only protected them to the extent of their actual possession, and
that the Secretary of the Interior decided otherwise to the

Oct. 1879.]

MARQUEZ v. FRISBIE.

prejudice of plaintiff. But no such allegation is made in the
complaint.
That part of the complaint which relates to this subject is,
after detailing his efforts before the register and receiver, as
follows :-

"But the said register and receiver refused to receive said money
and issue a certificate of purchase for said land, as they had previously
refused to award the same to him, and had returned the proofs with
their said opinion to the General Land Office at Washington.
"The plaintiff's claim, among others, was thus rejected. But the
Commissioner of the General Land Office took a different view of
the law, and in certain cases, adjudicated by him, declared that the
said lands were subject to pre-emption under the general laws, and
sustained the rights of pre-emption settlers.
"An appeal was taken in one case to the Secretary of the Interior,
who, upon the opinion of Mr. Attorney-General Speed, reversed
the decision of the commissioner, and declared that the act of
March 3d, 1863, above cited, has the effect to deprive the preemption settler of all rights under the general laws of the land. In
pursuance of this decision an order was issued authorizing the said
defendants and other purchasers of the Vallejo title to enter the
lands claimed by them; and the said defendants have entered and
will be enabled to receive a patent for the said quarter-section,
although the plaintiff first reduced it to possession, and has resided
continuously upon and been in the occupation of it for the last fourteen years, and justly claimed by the plaintiff under the laws of the
United States."
No copy of the opinion of the Attorney-General or of the
Secretary of the Interior is given, nor is there any other statement than this of what principle of law was then decided. That
the decision had any reference whatever to the nature, character, or extent of the possession of the claimants under Vallejo,
is a very forced inference from facts not found in the record,
for the bill contains no allegation whatever of the proofs of
the defendants, or of what they did or did not prove in regard to possession, except that they had not resided on the
land.
To set aside the decision of the land department, declare its
action to be a violation of the law, and reverse also the judg-

MARQUEZ v. FRiSBIE.

[Sup. Ct.

ments of the two courts of California on that ground, demands
some stronger evidence that such a decision was made by these
officers than is to be found in this petition.
So also as regards the allegations of fraud and imposition.
It is alleged in the vaguest terms that the act of Congress for
the benefit of Vallejo and his vendees was procured by the
false and fraudulent representations of defendants, but. as no
attempt is made to invalidate it, and the court is not asked to
disregard it, nothing more need be said of this charge.
The next is that before the passage of that act the Commissioner of the General Land Office, at the instigation of defendants, fraudulently and unjustly ordered that the surveys of this
land should be withheld by the surveyor-general. Unless
the mere use of the word fraudulent makes his order a fraud,
it is impossible to see any wrong in withholding these surveys while Congress was considering how far and in what manner it would relieve Vallejo and his grantees from the effect
of a very hard, if technically legal, judgment in favor of the
government.
It is also alleged that "defendants will, on receiving the
patent, be at liberty to sell said land to innocent purchasers,
and thus wholly defeat the just claim and right of plaintiff,
who will thus be fraudulently deprived of the land which he
has settled and improved under the guarantee of the laws of
the land, and which is evidently the intent and purpose of said
defendants in prosecuting their unjust and fraudulent claim to
the land aforesaid."
It is too obvious for comment that in all this the only use of
the words fraud and fraudulent is to stigmatize acts which are
adverse to the plaintiff's view of his own rights. But there
is not a syllable which defines an act fraudulent in nature,
or done or performed under the influence of corrupt motives,
or by corrupt means, by the defendant or by any of the land
officers who have had to deal with his claim. These officers
are not even named. It is idle at this day to suppose that
the expensive machinery of a court of equity is to be put
in operation for the purpose of reviewing and reversing the
judgment of the tribunals to whom that question is by law
entrusted, on such loose, untraversable allegations of fraud in

Oct. 1879.]

PLANING-MACHINE CO. V. KEITH.

general. United States v. TVroclmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Kerr on
Fraud, 365.
It is urged in argument that the facts stated by plaintiff in
regard to his own settlement, possession, and declaratory statement, show his right to receive a patent for the land, and that
on demurrer these are to be taken as true.
We are hardly inclined to believe that if every thing so stated
is to be treated as absolute verity that it makes out his right.
But it is sufficient to say that plaintiff also shows that all his
proofs, together with those on the other side, which he has not
set out in his petition, were submitted to and passed upon by
the land officers, from the register and receiver up to the Secretary of the Interior, and they decided against the validity of
his claim.
All this appears from his own petition; so that we return to
the proposition, that as he has not shown such a mistake of
law, or such element of fraud in that decision as will justify a
court of equity in setting it aside, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of California refusing that relief is without error, and it
is accordingly
Affirmed.

PLANING-MIACHINE COMPANY v. KEITH.
1. The action of the Commissioner of Patents in granting letters-patent does not
conclude the question whether there was not an abandonment. A person
charged with infringing them, may show that before they were issued the
patentee had abandoned his invention. The intention to abandon may be
manifested otherwise than by words.
2. There may be an abandonment after or before an application for letters has
been made and rejected, or withdrawn.
3. An inventor must comply with the statutory conditions. He cannot without
cause hold his application pending during a long period of years, leaving the
public uncertain whether he intends ever to prosecute it.
4. The facts concerning the application for letters-patent No. 138,462 granted to
Joseph P. Woodbury April 29, 1873, for an alleged new and useful improvement in planing-machines, stated. It appears among other things that it
was rejected and nothing done thereafter for many years; that he meanwhile obtained other letters, and knew that thousands of planing-machines
containing his alleged invention were manufactured, sold, and used in the
United States. Held, that his inaction, delay, and silence for more than six-

