BIBLE SOCIETY v. GROVE.

[Sup. Ot.

BIBLE SOCIETY v. GROVE.
1. A party is not entitled to the removal of a suit from a State court into the
Circuit Court on account of prejudice or local influence, unless the adverse
party is a citizen of the State in which the suit was brought.
2. A suit tried in a State court April 14, 1876, was, on the disagreement of the
jury, continued at that term and the following one. Hedd, that a petition
for its removal filed thereafter should not be granted.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. George P. Strong for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. L. Danford, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a suit begun on the 6th of March, 1868, in a
State court, by a part of the heirs-at-law of Jacob E. Grove,
to set aside his will. The defendants were the executors of
the will, the legatees or devisees, and some of the heirs. The
case was tried four times in the State court, and the venue was
changed twice. At three of the trials the jury disagreed. At
the other a verdict was given for the plaintiffs, which the court
set aside. The last trial commenced April 14, 1875, at the
January adjourned term of the Circuit Court of Macon County,
Missouri, and resulted in a disagreement of the jury. At the
next term, beginning on the third Monday in May, the cause
was continued.
On the 21st of September, 1875, the American Bible Society,
one of the defendants in the suit, a New York corporation,
and a legatee under the will, filed its petition for the removal
of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States. The
ground of removal is thus stated in the petition :"That said John A. Grove and others, plaintiffs as aforesaid,
are residents and citizens of the State of Ohio, and other
States other than the State of New York; that none of said
plaintiffs reside in or are citizens of the State of New York;
that said controversy is wholly between citizens of different
States, and can be fully determined as between them; that

Oct. 1879.]

BIBLE SOCIETY V.

GROVE.

petitioner is actually interested in said controversy (being the
only party whose interests plaintiffs profess to desire to affect
in said controversy); that the amount involved in said controversy exceeds $5,000. Petitioner further states that it has reason to believe, and does believe, that from prejudice and local
influence it will not be able to obtain justice in said Circuit
Court of Macon County aforesaid." Accompanying the petition was the necessary bond, and an affidavit of the attorney of
the petitioner, stating his belief of the facts set forth, and that
from local influence and prejudice the petitioner would not be
able to obtain justice in the State court. It nowhere appears
from the petition or the record that either of the plaintiffs was
a citizen of Missouri.
A copy of the record in the suit was duly filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States, and the cause docketed there. At
the first term the plaintiffs appeared and moved that the cause
be set down for hearing; but the court adjourned without disposing of the motion. On the 6th of March, 1876, and during the vacation, the plaintiffs filed in the office of the clerk
another motion to remand the cause, on the grounds, among
others, 1, that the petition for removal was not filed before or at
the term in which the cause could be first tried; and, 2, that it
did not appear that the plaintiffs, or either of them, were citizens
of Missouri. At the next term this motion was granted. To
reverse that order the case has been brought here.
We think the decision below was right. The courts of the
United States are not required to take any suit until in some
form their jurisdiction is made to appear of record. This rule
applies to suits coming to them by removal as well as to those
in which they issue the original process.
Suits cannot be removed from the State courts on account
of "prejudice or local influence," unless the party opposed to
him who petitions for the removal is a citizen of the State in
which the suit is brought. The express provision of the statute is, that "when a suit is between a citizen of the State in
which it is brought and a citizen of another State, it may be so
removed, on the petition of the latter." Rev. Stat., sect. 689,
sub-sect. 8. The act of March 3, 1875 (18 Stat. 470), has not
changed this provision of the Revised Statutes. Removals for

GATES V. GOODLOE.

[Sup. Ct.

this cause still depend on that section, which is a reproduction
of the act of 1867. 14 id. 558. As the plaintiffs are not shown
to have been citizens of Missouri, it is clear that the defendants
were not entitled to take the case to the courts of the United
States on this ground.
To effect a removal under the act of March 3, 1875, the petition must be filed in the State court " before or at the
term at which said cause could be first tried and before the
trial thereof." Sect. 3. This has been held to mean, in respect to suits pending when the act was passed, that the petition must be filed at the first term of the court thereafter at
which the cause could be tried. .Removal Cases, 100 U. S.457.
The act took effect from the time of its approval, March 3.
The case was actually tried once in the State court, on the
14th of April following. The jury disagreeing, it was continued
at that term and also at the May term. The petition for removal was not filed until September afterwards. Clearly this
was too late.
It is unnecessary to consider any of the other objections to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court which have been raised.
Judgment affirmed.

GATES v. GOODLOE.
1. Where the defendant in error moved to dismiss a writ sued out by three
partners, two of whom had previously received their discharges in bankruptcy, on the ground that the assignee alone could prosecute it, the court
grants the application of the latter to be substituted as a plaintiff in
error.
2. Semble, that the partner against whom no bankruptcy proceedings were instituted might have sued out the writ, using, if necessary, the names of all
the parties against whom the judgment had been rendered.
3. The court reaffirms the ruling in The William Bagaley (5 Wall. 377), that a
resident of a section in rebellion should leave it as soon as practicable, and
adhere to the regular established government; and furthermore holds that
one who, abandoning his home, enters the military lines of the enemy, and
is in sympathy and co-operation with those who strive by armed force to
overthrow the Union, is, during his stay there, an enemy of the government,
and liable to be treated as such, both as to his person and property.
4. When in 1862, at a time when there was no such substantial, complete, and
permanent military occupation and control of Memphis as has been held

