Oct. 1879.]

BAKER v. SELDEN.

case, was the circuit judge. Rev. Stat., sect. A0. If he had
been of the opinion that the instruction was wrong, the order
necessarily would have been in favor of granting a new trial.
Because the new trial was not granted, therefore, we must conclude that he thought the instruction right. To bring about a
disagreement under these circumstances, the district judge must
have held that the instruction was wrong; but, instead of that,
we find his opinion in the record, apparently delivered in disposing of the motion for a new trial, in which he maintains
with much force the correctness of the instruction.
In view of these facts, as the amount in dispute is less than
our jurisdiction requires, we must decline to take cognizance
of the case. If the judges below are not able to agree upon
the decision of any question of law which is material to the
determination of a cause presented to them, our jurisdiction
may be invoked to settle the differences ; but in such cases, if
it appears upon an examination of the whole record that no
such disagreement actually existed, we ought not to consider
the question, even though it may be certified in form.
Writ dismissed.

B

xER v. SELDEN.

1. A claim to the exclusive property in a peculiar system of book-keeping cannot, under the law of copyright, be maintained by the author of a treatise
in which that system is exhibited and explained.
2. The difference between a copyright and letters-patent stated and ilustrated.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
31r. Alp7onso Taft and Mr. Hf. P. Lloyd for the appellant.
3ir. C. 17 Afoulton and Hr. A1 i. Southard for the appellee.
MRt. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Charles Selden, the testator of the complainant in this case,
in the year 1859 took the requisite steps for obtaining the copy-

BAKER V. SELDEN.

[Sup. Ot.

right of a book, entitled "Selden's Condensed Ledger, or Bookkeeping Simplified," the object of which was to exhibit and
explain a peculiar system of book-keeping. In 1860 and 1861,
he took the copyright of several other books, containing additions to and improvements upon the said system. The bill of
complaint was filed against the defendant, Baker, for an alleged
infringement of these copyrights. The latter, in his answer,
denied that Selden was the author or designer of the books,
and denied the infringement'charged, and contends on the
argument that the matter alleged to be infringed is not a
lawful subject of copyright.
The parties went into proofs, and the various books of the
complainant, as well as those sold and used by the defendant,
were exhibited before the examiner, and witnesses were examined on both sides. A decree was rendered for the complainant,
and the defendant appealed.
The book or series of books of which the complainant claims
the copyright consists of an introductory essay explaining the
system of book-keeping referred to, to which are annexed certain forms or blanks, consisting of ruled lines, and headings,
illustrating the system and showing how it is to be hsed and
carried out in practice. This system effects the same results
as book-keeping by double entry; but, by a peculiar arrangement of columns and headings, presents the entire operation, of
a day, a week, or a month, on a single page, or on two pages
facing each other, in an account-book. The defendant uses a
similar plan so far as results are concerned; but makes a different arrangement of the c6lumns, and uses different headings. If the complainant's testator had the exclusive right to
the use of the system explained in his book, it would be difficult to contend that the defendant does not infringe it, notwithstanding the difference in his form of arrangement; but if it
be assumed that the system is open to public use, it seems to be
equally difficult to contend that the books made and sold by
the defendant are a violation of the copyright of the complainant's book considered merely as a book explanatory of the system. Where the truths of a science or the methods of an art
are the common property of the whole world, any author has
the right to express the one, or explain and use the other, in

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER V. SELDEN.

his own way. As an author, Selden explained the system in a
particular way. It may be conceded that Baker makes and
uses account-books arranged on substantially the same system;
but the proof fails to show that he has violated the copyright
of Selden's book, regarding the latter merely as an explanatory work; or that lie has infringed Selden's right in any way,
unless the latter became entitled to an exclusive right in the
system.
The evidence of the complainant is principally directed to
the object of showing that Baker uses the same system as that
which is explained and illustrated in Selden's books. It becomes important, therefore, to determine whether, in obtaining
the copyright of his books, he secured the exclusive right to
the use of the system or method of book-keeping which the
said books are intended to illustrate and explain. It is contended that be has secured such exclusive right, because no one
can use the system without using substantially the same ruled
lines and headings which he has appended to his books in illustration of it. In other words, it is contended that the ruled
lines and headings, given to illustrate the system, are a part of
the book, and, as such, are secured by the copyright; and that
no one can make or use similar ruled lines and headings, or
ruled lines and headings made and arranged on substantially
the same system, without violating the copyright. And this is
really the question to be decided in this case. Stated in another form, the question is, whether the exclusive property in
a system of book-keeping can be claimed, under the law of
copyright, by means of a book in which that system is explained? The complainant's bill, and the case made under it,
are based on the hypothesis that it can be.
It cannot be pretended, and indeed it is not seriously urged,
that the ruled lines of the complainant's account-book can be
claimed under any special class of objects, other than books,
named in the law of copyright existing in 1859. The law then
in force was that of 1831, and specified only books, maps,
charts, musical compositions, prints, and engravings. An account-book, consisting of ruled lines and blank columns, cannot
be called by any of these names unless by that of a book.
There is no doubt that a work on the subject of book-keeping,

BAKER V. SELDEN.

[ESup. at;.

though only explanatory of well-known systems, may be the
subject of a copyright; but, then, it is claimed only as a book.
Such a book may be explanatory either of old systems, or of an
entirely new system; and, considered as a book, as the work of
an author, conveying information on the subject of book-keeping, and containing detailed explanations of the art, it may be
a very valuable acquisition to the practical knowledge of the
community. But there is a clear distinction between the book,
as such, and the art which it is intended to illustrate. The
mere statement of the proposition is so evident, that it requires
hardly any argument to support it. The same distinction may
be predicated of every other art as well as that of book-keeping. A treatise on the composition and use of medicines, be
they old or new; on the construction and use of ploughs, or
watches, or churns; or on the mixture and application of colors
for painting or dyeing; or on the mode of drawing lines to produce the effect of perspective, - would be the subject of copyright; but no one -would contend that the copyright of the
treatise would give the exclusive right to the art or manufacture
described therein. The copyright of the book, if not pirated
from other works, would be valid without regard to the novelty,
or want of novelty, of its subject-matter. The novelty of the
art or thing described or explained has nothing to do with
the validity of the copyright. To give to the author of the
book an exclusive property in the art described therein, when
no examination of its novelty has ever been officially made,
would be a surprise and a fraud upon the public. That is the
province of letters-patent, not of copyright. The claim to an
invention or discovery of an art or manufacture must be subjected to the examination of the Patent Office before an exclusive right therein can be obtained; and it can only be secured
by a patent from the government.
The difference between the two things, letters-patent and
copyright, may be illustrated by reference to the subjects just
enumerated. Take the case of medicines. Certain mixtures
are found to be of great value in the healing art. If the discoverer writes and publishes a book on the subject (as regular
physicians generally do), he gains no exclusive right to the
manufacture and sale of the medicine; he gives that to the

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER V. SELDEN.

public. If he desires to acquire such exclusive right, he must
obtain a patent for the mixture as a new art, manufacture, or
composition of matter. He may copyright his book, if he
pleases; but that only secures to him the exclusive right of
printing and publishing his book. So of all other inventions or
discoveries.
The copyright of a book on perspective, no matter how many
drawings and illustrations it may cntain, gives no exclusive
right to the modes of drawing described, though they may
never have been known or used before. By publishing the
book, without getting a patent for the art, the latter is given
to the public. The fact that the art described in the book by
illustrations of lines and figures which are reproduced in practice in the application of the art, makes no difference. Those
illustrations are the mere language employed by the author to
convey his ideas more clearly. Had he used words of description instead of diagrams (which merely stand in the place of
words), there could not be the slightest doubt that others, applying the art to practical use, might lawfully draw the lines
and diagrams which were in the author's mind, and which he
thus described by words in his book.
The copyright of a work on mathematical science cannot
give to the author an exclusive right to the methods of operation which he propounds, or to the diagrams which he employs
to explain them, so as to prevent an engineer from using them
whenever occasion requires. The very object of publishing a
book on science or the useful arts is to communicate to the
world the useful knowledge which it contains. But this object
would be frustrated if the knowledge could not be used without
incurring the guilt of piracy of the book. And where the art
it teaches cannot be used without employing the methods and
diagrams used to illustrate the book, or such as are similar to
them, such methods and diagrams are to be considered as necessary incidents to the art, and given therewith to the public;
not given for the purpose of publication in other works explanatory of the art, but for the purpose of practical application.
Of course, these observations are not intended to apply to
ornamental designs, or pictorial illustrations addressed to the
taste. Of these it may be said, that their form is their essence,

104

.

BAKER V. SELDEN.

[Sup. Ct.

and their object, the production of pleasure in their contemplation. This is their final end. They are as much the product
of genius and the result of composition, as are the lines of the
poet or the historian's periods. On the other hand, the teachings of science and the rules and methods of useful art have
their final end in application and use; and this application and
use are what the public derive from the publication of a book
which teaches them. But as embodied and taught in a literary composition or book, their essence consists only in their
statement. This alone is what is secured by the copyright.
The use by another of the same methods of statement, whether
in words or illustrations, in a book published for teaching
the art, would undoubtedly be an infringement of the copyright.
Recurring to the case before us, we observe that Charles
Selden, by his books, explained and described a peculiar system of book-keeping, and illustrated his method by means of
ruled lines and blank columns, with proper headings on a page,
or on successive pages. Now, whilst no one has a right to
print or publish his book, or any material part thereof, as a
book intended to convey instruction in the art, any person may
practise and use the art itself which he has described and illustrated therein. The use of the art is a totally different thing
from a publication of the book explaining it. The copyright
of a book on book-keeping cannot secure the exclusive right to
make, sell, and use account-books prepared upon the plan set
forth in such book. Whether the art might or might not have
been patented, is a question which is not before us. It was not
patented, and is open and free to the use of the public. And,
of course, in using the art, the ruled lines and headings of
accounts must necessarily be used as incident to it.
The plausibility of the claim put forward by the complainant in this case arises from a confusion of ideas produced by
the peculiar nature of the art described in the books which
have been made the subject of copyright. In describing the
art, the illustrations and diagrams employed happen to correspond more closely than usual with the actual work performed
by the operator who uses the art. Those illustrations and
diagrams consist of ruled lines and headings of accounts; and

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER V. SELDEN.

it is similar ruled lines and headings of accounts which, in the
application of the art, the book-keeper makes with his pen, or
the stationer with his press; whilst in most other cases the
diagrams and illustrations can only be represented in concrete
forms of wood, metal, stone, or some other physical embodiment. But the principle is the same in all. The description
of the art in a book, though entitled to the benefit of copyright,
lays no foundation for an exclusive claim to the art itself. The
object of the one is explanation; the object of the other is use.
The former may be secured by copyright. The latter can only
be secured, if it can be secured at all, by letters-patent.
The remarks of Mr. Justice Thompson in the Circuit Court
in Clayton v. Stone & Hall (2 Paine, 392), in which copyright was claimed in a daily price-current, are apposite and
instructive. He says: "In determining the true construction
to be given to the act of Congress, it is proper to look at the
Constitution of the United States, to aid us in ascertaining the
nature of the property intended to be protected. 'Congress
shall have power to promote the progress of science and useful
arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the
exclusive right to their writings and discoveries.' The act in
question was passed in execution of the power here given, and
the object, therefore, was the promotion of science; and it
would certainly be a pretty extraordinary view of the sciences
to consider a daily or weekly publication of the state of the
market as falling within any class of them. They are of a
more fixed, permanent, and durable character. The term
'science' cannot, with any propriety, be applied to a work of
so fluctuating and fugitive a form as that of a newspaper or
price-current, the subject-matter of which is daily changing,
and is of mere temporary use. Although great praise may be
due to the plaintiffs for their industry and enterprise in publishing this paper, yet the law does not contemplate their
being rewarded in this way: it must seek patronage and protection from its utility to the public, and not as a work of science.
The title of the act of Congress is, ' for the encouragement of
learning,' and was not intended for the encouragement of mere
industry, unconnected with learning and the sciences. . . . We
are, accordingly, of opinion that the paper in question is not

BAIKER V. SELDEN.

[Sup. Ct.

a book the copyright to which can be secured under the act
of Congress."
The case of Cobbett v. Woodward (Law Rep. 14 Eq. 407)
was a claim to copyright in a catalogue of furniture which the
publisher had on sale in his establishment, illustrated with
many drawings of furniture and decorations. The defendants,
being dealers in the same business, published a similar book,
and copied many of the plaintiff's drawings, though it was
shown that they had for sale the articles represented thereby.
The court held that these drawings were not subjects of copyright. Lord Romilly, M. R., said: "This is a mere advertisement for the sale of particular articles which any one might
imitate, and any one might advertise for sale. If a man not
being a vendor of any of the articles in question were to publish a work for the purpose of informing the public of what
was the most convenient species of articles for household furniture, or the most graceful species of decorations for articles of
home furniture, what they ought to cost, and where they might
be bought, and were to illustrate his work with designs of each
article he described, - such a work as this could not be pirated
with impunity, and the attempt to do so would be stopped by
the injunction of the Court of Chancery; yet if it were done
with no such object, but solely for the purpose of advertising
particular articles for sale, and promoting the private trade of
the publisher by the sale of articles which any other person
might sell as well as the first advertiser, and if in fact it contained little more than an illustrated inventory of the contents
of a warehouse, I know of no law which, while it would not
prevent the second advertiser from selling the same articles,
would prevent him from using the same advertisement; provided he did not in such advertisement by any device suggest
that he was selling the works and designs of the first advertiser."
Another case, that of Page v. Wisden (20 L. T. x. s.
435), which came before Vice-Chancellor Malins in 1869, has
some resemblance to the present. There a copyright was
claimed in a cricket scoring-sheet, and the Vice-Chancellor held
that it was not a fit subject for copyright, partly because
it was. not new, but also because "to say that a particular

Oct. 1879.]

BAKER V. SELDEN.

mode of ruling a book constituted an object for a copyright
isabsurd."
These cases, if not precisely in point, come near to the matter
in hand, and, in our view, corroborate the general proposition
which we have laid down.
In -Druryv. Ewing (1 Bond, 540), which is much relied on
by the complainant, a copyright was claimed in a chart of patterns for cutting dresses and basques for ladies, and coats,
jackets, &c., for boys. It is obvious that such designs could
only be printed and published for information, and not for
use in themselves. Their practical use could only be exemplified in cloth on the tailor's board and under his shears; in
other words, by the application of a mechanical operation to
the cutting of cloth in certain patterns and forms. Surely the
exclusive right to this practical use was not reserved to the
publisher by his copyright of the chart. Without undertaking
to say whether we should or should not concur in the decision
in that case, we think it cannot control the present.
The conclusion to which we have come is, that blank accountbooks are not the subject of copyright; and that the mere
copyright of Selden's book did not confer upon him the exclusive right to make and use account-books, ruled and arranged
as designated by him and described and illustrated in said
book.
The decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the complainant's
bill; and it is
So ordered.

