Oct. 1879.]

ANTHONY V. COUNTY OF JASPER.

ANTHONY V. COUNTY OF JASPER.
1. The act of the General Assembly of Missouri, entitled "An Act to provide
for the registration of bonds issued by counties, cities, and incorporated
towns, and to limit the issue thereof," approved March 30, 1872, applies to
bonds issued under the act approved March 23, 1868, commonly known as
"The Township Aid Act."
2. The said act of March 80, 1872, declares that before a municipal bond thereafter issued shall obtain validity or be negotiated, it shall be presented to
the State auditor, who shall register it and certify by indorsement that all
the conditions of the laws and of the contract under which it was ordered to
be issued have been complied with. Held, that unless the bonds are so indorsed, a holder of them cannot maintain an action thereon.
3. A township in Missouri voted to subscribe for stock in a railroad company.
The proper county court, March 28, 1872, made the subscription, and, June
4, ordered that the bonds in payment therefor be issued. They were issued
in October following, but bore date the day of the subscription. They
were sealed with the seal of the court, and signed by the clerk and by A.,
as presiding justice, although the latter did not become such until October.
Neither the county court nor the other justice thereof consented to A.'s act.
The bonds were not registered, nor was the certificate of registration required by said act of Mfarch 30, indorsed thereon. In a suit by B., a holder
for value, upon the bonds, - Hedd, 1. That he was charged with notice that
A. was not presiding justice at the time they bear date. 2. That the bonds
being signed by A. was equivalent to notice that they were not in fact
issued before the passage of said act, and that they are consequently void.
4. Town of Weyauwega v. Ayling (99 U. S. 112) distinguished.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
of Missouri.
District
Western
are
stated
in the opinion of the court.
The facts
ERROR

The case was argued by Mr.John B. Henderson and Mr.
Joseph Sldppen for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Alexander
Graves, contra.
Mr. -E.J. Montague and 31. Fillmore Beall fried printed
arguments for the defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE, WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a suit upon interest coupons originally attached to
bonds issued under the Township Aid Act of Missouri, and
presents the following facts:On the 10th of February, 1872, the township of Marion, in

ANTHONY

V. COUNTY OF JASPER.

[Sup. Or.

Jasper County, upon a call duly made under the law, voted to
subscribe $75,000 to the stock of the Memphis, Carthage, and
Northwestern Railroad Company upon certain conditions, and
on the 28th of March following the county court made the subscription on the terms and subject to the conditions specified.
On the 30th of March in that year an act was passed by the
General Assembly of Missouri, entitled "An Act to provide for
the registration of bonds issued by counties, cities, and incorporated towns, and to limit the issue thereof." Sect. 4 of that
act is as follows:"Before any bond hereafter issued by any county, city, or incorporated town, for any purpose whatever, shall obtain validity, or be
negotiated, such bond shall first be presented to the State auditor,
who shall register the same in a book or books provided for that
purpose in the same manner as the State bonds are now registered,
and who shall certify by indorsement on such bond that all the
conditions of the laws have been complied with in its issue, if that
be the case, and also that the conditions of the contract under which
they were ordered to be issued have also been complied with, and
the evidence of that fact shall be filed and preserved by the auditor.
But such certificate shall be prima facie evidence only of the facts
therein stated, and shall not preclude or prohibit any person from
showing or proving the contrary in any suit or proceedings to test
or determine the validity of such bonds or the power of any county
court, city, or town council, or board of trustees, or other authority
to issue such bonds, and the remedy by injunction shall also lie at
the instance of any tax-payer of the respective county, city, or
incorporated town to prevent the registration of any bonds alleged
to be illegally issued or f&unded under any provision of this act."
On the 4th of June, 1872, the county court ordered that
$50,000 of the bonds which had been voted should be issued,
that the clerk have them registered according to law, and,
when registered, that they be deposited in escrow with some
responsible banker in St. Louis.
John Purcell was the presiding justice of the court in March.
He continued in office until September, 1872,.when he resigned,
and R. S. Merwin was appointed in his place Oct. 21, 1872.
The bonds now in question were sealed with the seal of the
court, affixed by the clerk, and signed by Merwin, as presiding

Oct. 1879.]

ANTHONY V. COUNTY OF JASPER,

justice, and by the clerk in October, 1872, but antedated as of
March 28. Merwin delivered them during the same month,
with the first two coupons cut off, to the Union Savings Bank
of St. Louis, for the use of Edward Burgess, a contractor for
building the road. In November, Burgess sold them to one
Wilson at fifty-five cents on the dollar, and the bank gave them
up to the purchaser on his order. Neither the other justice of
the county court, nor the court as a court, consented to what
was done by Merwin, and the railroad company has never fully
complied with the conditions of the vote authorizing the issue
of the bonds. No registry of the bonds was ever made, as
required by the act of March 30, 1872, and they did not have
upon them the certificate of registration. Anthony, the plaintiff
below, was a purchaser for value of the bonds from which the
coupons sued on were cut, and without any notice that they
had been antedated, or were in any respect irregular or
invalid.
The Circuit Court, on this state of facts, gave judgment
against Anthony, and he brought this writ of error.
All the questions presented in the argument of this case
were disposed of in Douglass v. County of Pie (supra, p. 677),
except such as arise under the act of March 30, 1872. That
act, it is claimed, renders the bonds invalid, because they were
not registered and had no certificate of registry on them.
Against this it is urged: 1. That the act does not apply to bonds issued under the
township aid law; and,
2. That if it does, the county is estopped from denying that
these bonds were actually issued on the day they bear date.
The first objection is, as we think, untenable. It does not
appear to have been taken or considered below. While the
bonds are township bonds, in the sense that they are payable
out of taxes levied on the property in the township which
voted them, they were issued by the county. The county
court, which represented the county in its corporate capacity,
made the subscription voted by the township, and issued the
bonds in the name of the county. Under the same authority
the necessary taxes are to be levied on the property in the
township, and from moneys obtained in this way the county

696

ANTHONY V. COUNTY OF JASPER.

[Sup. Ct.

treasurer is to pay the bonds and coupons as they mature.
The bonds on their face acknowledge an indebtedness of the
county "for and on account of" the township. Since townships have no corporate organization of their own they act
through the county, which, for this purpose, represents them
as, under other circumstances, it does the people of the whole
county.
The act in question is not confined to the bonds of counties,
but embraces all issued by counties. As there can be no
township bonds except they are issued by counties, it seems to
us that they come within the descriptive words used in the
fourth section, and we have been unable to find any thing in
the other parts of the act manifesting an intention to give
these words any other than their usual and ordinary signification. The object of the new legislation undoubtedly was to
guard against unauthorized issues of this class of public securities. For this purpose a new policy was adopted by the State.
The evil which the General Assembly bad in view affected township bonds, as well as those of counties, cities, or towns. In
fact, as ordinarily the same officers put out the township bonds
that did those of the county, it is impossible to discover any
good reason for guarding one against frauds and mistakes rather
than the other. The records of the county court should contain
an account of all that has been done in this way by that body
for the townships, and the chief financial officer of the county
can as easily furnish the State auditor with a statement of these
obligations as he can of those of the county at large. When
the State auditor certifies to the county court the amount
required during the next year to meet maturing coupons and
costs and expenses, the special tax can be levied by the county
court, under the township aid law, as amended in 1871 (Wagner's Stat. 331, sect. 52), on the real estate and personal propperty in the township for whose account the bonds were issued.
No embarrassment can possibly arise in this particular, for there
i no such conflict between the two statutes as to produce a
repeal by implication. The registration statute is supplementary only to that under which the bonds were originally
issued.
This brings us to consider the question of estoppel. There

Oct. 1879.]

ANTHONY V. COUNTY OF JASPER.

can be no doubt that it is within the power of a State to prescribe the form in which municipal bonds sball be executed in
order to bind the public for their payment. If not so executed
they create no legal liability. Other circumstances may exist
which will give the holder of them an equitable right to recover
from the municipality the money which they represent, but he
cannot enforce the payment, or put them on the market as
commercial paper. The act now in question is, we think, of
this character. It in effect provides that no bond issued by
counties, cities, or incorporated towns shall be valid, that is to
say, completely executed, until it has been countersigned or
certified in a particular way by the State auditor. For this
purpose, after being executed by the corporate authorities, it
must be presented to that officer, and he must inquire and
determine whether all the requirements of the law authorizing
its issue have been observed, and whether all the conditions of
the contract in consideration of which it was to be put out
have been complied with. To enable him to do this, evidence
must be submitted which he is required to file and preserve.
If he is satisfied, the registry is made, and the requisite certificate indorsed on the bonds. This being done the execution
of the bond is complete, and, under the law, it may then be
negotiated, that is to say, put on the market as valid commercial
paper. When the certificate is found on the bond the purchaser need not inquire whether what has been certified to is
true. As against a bona fide holder the public is bound by
what its authorized agents have done and stated in the prescribed form.
Dealers in municipal bonds are charged with notice of the
laws of the State granting power to make the bonds they find
on the market. This we have always held. If the power
exists in the municipality, the bona fide holder is protected
against mere irregularities in the manner of its execution, but
if there is a want of power, no legal liability can be created.
When the bonds now in question were put out, the law required that to be valid they must be certified to by the auditor
of state. In other words, that officer was to certify them before their execution was complete, so as to bind the public
for their payment. We had occasion to consider in 1Hc arra-

ANTHONY V. COUNTY OF JASPER.

[Sup. t

han v. Mining Company (96 U. S. 316) the effect of statutory
requirements as to the form of the execution of patents to pass
the title of lands out of the United States, and there say:
"Each and every one of the integral parts of the execution is
essential to the validity of a patent. They are of equal importance under the law, and one cannot be dispensed with
more than another. Neither is directory, but all are mandatory. The question is not what, in the absence of statutory
regulations, would constitute a valid grant, but what the statute requires." The same rule applies here. The object to be
accomplished is the complete execution of a valid instrument,
such as the law authorizes public officers to put out and bind
for the payment of money the public organization they represent. For this purpose the law has provided that the instrument must not only be signed and sealed on behalf of the
county court of the county, but it must be certified to or
countersigned by the auditor of state. Of this law all who
deal in the bonds are bound to take notice.
In order to recover in this case it became necessary for the
plaintiff to prove that the bonds from which the coupons sued
on were cut had been executed according to law. He did
prove that they were signed by the presiding justice and clerk
of the court, and were sealed with the seal of the court. This,
before the act of March 30, 1872, would have been enough,
but after that more was necessary. The public can act only
through its authorized agents, and it is not bound until all who
are to participate in what is to be done have performed their
respective duties. The authority of a public agent depends on
the law as it is when he acts. He has only such powers as are
specifically granted; and he cannot bind his principal under
powers that have been taken away, by simply antedating his
contracts. Under such circumstances, a false date is equivalent
to a false signature; and the public, in the absence of any ratification of its own, is no more estopped by the one than it
would be by the other. After the power of an agent of a
private person has been revoked, he cannot bind his principal
by simply dating back what he does. A retiring partner,
after due notice of dissolution, cannot charge his firm for the
payment of a negotiable promissory note, even in the hands of

Oct. 1879.]

ANTHONY v. COUNTY OF JASPER.

699

an innocent holder, by giving it a date within the period of
the existence of the partnership. Antedating under such circumstances partakes of the character of a forgery, and is always open to inquiry, no matter who relies on it. The question
is one of the authority of him who attempts to bind another.
Every person who deals with or through an agent assumes all
ths isks of a lack of authority in the agent to do what he
does. Negotiable paper is no more protected against this inquiry than any other. In Bayley v. Taber (5 Mass. 285), it
was held that when a statute provided that promissory notes
of a certain kind, made or issued after a certain day, should be
utterly void, evidence was admissible on behalf of the makers
to prove that the notes were issued after that day, although
they bore a previous date.
It matters not that when the bonds were voted the registration law was not in force. Before they were issued it had gone
into effect. It did not change in any way the contract with
the railroad company. The company was just as much entitled to its bonds when it complied with the conditions under
which they were voted after the law as it could have been
before. All the legislature attempted to do was to provide
what should be a good bond when issued. There was nothing
changed but the form of the execution.
Purchasers of municipal securities must always take the risk
of the genuineness of the official signatures of those who execute the paper they buy. This includes not only the genuineness of the signature itself, but the official character of him
who makes it. This plaintiff is charged with notice of the fact
that Merwin was not the presiding justice of the county court
until October, 1872, and that he could not have signed the
bonds in his official capacity until that time. Had he signed
them in March, he could not have bound the township for
their payment. This is equivalent to notice that they were
not in fact issued before March 30, and that consequently
they were not valid because not certified by the auditor of
state.
This case is entirely different from Town of Weyauwega v.
Aylivg (99 U. S. 112), where we held the town was estopped
from proving that the bonds were actually signed by a former

700

DAUTERIVE V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

clerk after he went out of office; because the clerk in office
adopted that signature as his own when he united with the
chairman in delivering the bonds to the railroad company, pursuant to the vote of the town. There the bonds were not only
complete in form at the time they bore date, but when they
were actually issued as genuine by the proper agents, one
of whom was the clerk who should have signed them. Here
they were not actually complete in form when they were issued,
and it was only by a false date inserted by one of the two
agents required by law to unite in their execution, and without the knowledge or consent of the other, who never acted at
all, that they were apparently so. They were never in a condition to be issued, and were never in fact issued by the proper
authorities. They were in legal effect forged.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court was right,
Afrmed.
and it is consequently
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD, MR. JUSTICE SwANE, and
JUSTICE STRONTG

MR.

dissented.

DAUTERI

v. UmITED STATES.

1. Where a petition was filed under the eleventh section of an act entitled "An
Act for the final adjustment of private land claims in the States of
Florida, Louisiana, and Missouri" (12 Stat. 85), praying for the confirmation of title to a tract of land in Louisiana, and it appears that the grant,

as the same is alleged in the petition, was not surveyed before the treaty
of cession, and that it furnishes no means whereby its location or extent
can be determined, -

Hdd, that the petition was properly dismissed.

2. United States v. D'Auterieve (14 How. 14), in which the same grant was under
consideration, cited and approved.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Edward Janin for the appellants.
Te Solicitor- General, contra.

