Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON v. DARLINGTON.

407

transaction complained of by the bill occurred, and the appellants knew of the filing of the petition against him, and of his
utter insolvency when they received the assets.
Our opinion in this case disposes also of the other. The
record shows that the rights of Witherow were settled and provided for by a decree in another litigation to which he and the
assignee were parties. The cross-bills were properly dismissed.
-Decreesaffirmed.

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON V. DARLINGTON.
The act of the General Assembly of Illinois, approved March 6, 1867, establishing the State Reform School, examined. The provision, authorizing municipal corporations to donate money to secure the location of the school within
their limits, sustained as not being in conflict with the constitution of the
State, adopted in 1848, there being no settled or uniform decision to the contrary by her Supreme Court.

ERROR, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. R-iclard T. M5lerrici and M1Tr. Bobert
plaintiff in error.
MIr. Wayne 3Iac Veagl, contra.

a. Ingersoll for the

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The court is asked in this action to declare an act of the
General Assembly of Illinois to be repugnant to the Constitution of that State. The act referred to was approved March
5, 1867. It established a State Reform School for the discipline, education, employment, and reformation of juvenile
offenders and vagrants, between the ages of eight and eighteen
years. The management of the institution was committed to
a board of trustees, appointed by the Governor by and with the
consent of the Senate. Cook County was excepted from the
operations of the act, because a similar institution had been
previously established in that county.

COUNTY Op LTVINGSTON V. DARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

The board, upon its organization, was required to proceed in
the selection of a suitable site, in or near the central portion of
the State, on which the necessary buildings should be erected.
In determining such location, the trustees were directed to
take into consideration any proposition, of the performance of
which they had satisfactory assurance, to give to the State the
lands necessary for the site of the "house of refuge," or any
materials or money to aid in the erection thereof. Any bond
or other obligation executed to the people of the State, and
delivered to the trustees of the institution, to secure any such
site, money, or materials, the act declared, should be binding
upon the parties executing the same. 1 Gross Stat. 564.
On the 19th of April, 1869, - the institution not then having been permanently located, - an amendatory act was passed,
which, among other things, declared, That any township, county, town, or city might make a subscription in aid of the school, in money, bonds, or lands, for
the purpose of securing its location within its limits;
That such subscription, if by a county, should be made by
resolution, to be adopted by a majority vote of its Board of
Supervisors, at a regular or special meeting thereof; if by a
township, by resolution of the supervisor, town clerk, and
assessor, acting as a board for the township; if by a town, by
resolution or ordinance of its board of trustees; and if by a
city, by a resolution or ordinance passed in the usual manner.
That no subscription should be made by a township, town,
or city, except in pursuance of a popular vote, at an election
called and held in the manner specified in the act; and,
That the township, county, town, or city making such subscription might provide for the payment of the principal and
interest thereof, by tax upon the taxable property of such
county, township, town, or city, to be levied and collected as
other taxes. Id. et seq.
Under this legislation the county of Livingston, through its
Board of Supervisors, in consideration of the location of the
school within its limits, and to aid in the erection of the necessary buildings, donated the sum of $50,000, and, in payment
thereof, issued county bonds, with interest coupons attached.
The bonds, dated July 15, 1869, signed by the chairman and

Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON v. DARLINGTON.

409

clerk of the Board of Supervisors, under the county seal, and
reciting upon their face that they were executed and issued
under the provisions of the acts of March 5, 1867, and April
19, 1869, and in accordance with the resolution of the Board
of Supervisors, were delivered to the trustees of the school,
who caused them to be sent to Pennsylvania for sale. They
were there sold, in open market, to citizens of that State, and
the proceeds applied, by the State of Illinois, to the completion
of the buildings connected with the Reform School.
The institution went into operation as contemplated by the
legislature.
The present action was brought by Darlington upon some of
the interest coupons, he, it is agreed, having become the legal
holder thereof, in good faith, for a valuable consideration.
The Circuit Court gave judgment against the county.
Upon this writ of error the controlling question presented
for our determination is whether the acts of the General Assembly of Illinois, under Which the bonds were issued, are, as to
the provisions authorizing municipal donations to secure the
location of the Reform School, repugnant to the fifth section
of article nine of the Constitution of the State, ratified in
1848.
That section declares that "The corporate authorities of
counties, townships, school districts, cities, towns, and villages
may be vested with power to assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes; such taxes to be uniform in respect to persons
and property within the jurisdiction of the body imposing the
same. And the General Assembly shall require that all the
property within the limits of municipal corporations, belonging
to individuals, shall be taxed for the payment of debts contracted under authority of law."
The argument of counsel in behalf of the county consists
mainly of two propositions, viz: That according to the settled construction by the Supreme
Court of Illinois of the State Constitution, at the time the
bonds in suit were issued, the General Assembly could not
invest the corporate authorities of counties or other municipal
organizations with power to assess and collect taxes for any
except corporate purposes;

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON v. DARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

That it is equally well settled by the same court not to be a
corporate purpose for a county or other municipal body to aid,
by donation or otherwise, in the establishment of a State institnution for the discipline, education, employment, or reformation
of juvenile offenders and vagrants.
In determining whether the General Assembly" of Illinois
has transgressed the fundamental law of that State, we recall
what this court said in Fletcher v. Peck (6 Cranch, 128), where
it became our duty to consider whether a statute of Georgia
was in conflict with its Constitution.
"The question," said Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, "whether
a law be void for its repugnancy to the Constitution is, at all
times, a question of much delicacy, which ought seldom, if
ever, to be decided in the affirmative in a doubtful case. The
court, when impelled by duty to render such a judgment, would
be unworthy of its station, could it be unmindful of the solemn
obligations which that station imposes. But it is not on slight
implication and vague conjecture that -the legislature is to be
pronounced to have transcended its powers and its acts to be
considered as void. The opposition between the Constitution
and the law should be such that the judge feels a clear and
strong conviction of their incompatibility with each other."
This language was cited with approval in Chicago, Danville,
l'incennes Railroad Co. v. Smith (62 Ill. 268), where the
V
Supreme Court of Illinois added: "Enough has been cited to show the firm position of the
judiciary, that the courts ought not, and in justice to the rights
of a co-ordinate department of the State government cannot,
declare a law to be void without a strong and earnest conviction, divested of all reasonable doubt, of its invalidity." Lane
v. Dorman, 4 Ill. 238; -Peoplev. Marshall, 6 id. 672.
Adhering to ,these doctrines as vital in the relations which
exist between the legislative departments of the several States
and the courts of the Union, we first inquire as to the state of
the law in Illinois, as declared by its highest judicial tribunal,
at the time (July 15, 1869) the bonds in suit were issued and
put upon the market for sale.
Prior to that date it seems to have been settlea by that
court, -

Out. 1879.]

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON

v.

DARLINGTON.

411

1. In Hfarvard, .c. v. St. Clair -DrainCo. (51 Ill. 130), that
under the Constitution in force prior to that of 1848, and which
contained no provision similar to sect. 5, art. 9, of the Constitution of 1848, the right of the legislature to confer upon
municipal corporations the power of taxation for local or corporate purposes was constantly exercised and never denied or
doubted; that sect. 5, art. 9, of the Constitution of 1848, was
not, therefore, intended as a grant of such power or to remove
doubts as to its existence, but to define the class of persons to
whom the light of taxation might be granted and the purposes
for which it might be exercised; that, consequently, the legislature could not constitutionally confer that power upon any
other than the corporate authorities of a county, township,
school districts, cities, towns, and villages, or for any other than
corporate purposes;
2. In Johnson v. County of Stark (24 id. 75), re-affirmed in
Chicago, Danville, & Vincennes Railroad Co. v. Smith, supra;
Perkins v. Lewis, 24 Ill. 208; Butler v. -Dunham, 27 id. 473;
Town of Keitksburg v. Frick, 34 id. 405, and other cases, that
the subscription by a county to the capital stock of a railroad
company engaged in the construction of a road running through
the limits was a corporate purpose, for the accomplishment of
which the corporate authorities of the county could, under
legislative sanction, assess and collect taxes upon persons and
property within its jurisdiction; that such aid was a corporate
purpose, because in the completion of such improvements "the
whole community is either immediately or remotely interested,
those near the line on which it passes in a larger, and those
more remotely situated in a less degree, but all participate in
its benefits; " that among the corporate purposes for which a
county may be taxed are court-houses, jails, poor-houses, the
opening and keeping of common highways, and the erection
and maintenance of bridges.
3. In Taylor v. Thompson (42 Ill. 9), followed by Rfenderson v. Lagow (42 id. 361), Briscoe v. Allison (43 id. 291),
37i8sner v. Bullard (43 id. 470), and Johnson v. Campbell (49
id. 317), that a tax levied by a township under legislative authority, and in pursuance of a popular vote, to pay bounties to
persons who should thereafter enlist or be drafted in the army

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON V. DARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

of the United States, was a tax for a corporate purpose; that
the framers of the Constitution intended to leave a large discretion to the legislature as to what should be considered as
falling within that phrase; that the phrase "corporate purposes " should not receive "so narrow a construction as to
justify the courts in holding that a municipality should not tax
itself, although authorized by act of the legislature, because it
might be a debatable question whether the proposed tax would
promote the corporate welfare or not;" that a tax for a corporate purpose is a "tax to be expended in a manner which
shall promote the general prosperity and welfare of the community which levies it; that every individual tax-payer shall
have a direct interest in the object for which the tax is levied,
or be directly benefited by the expenditure, is unattainable in
the very nature of things. General results are all that can be
expected; and if it appears that a tax has been voted and levied with an honest purpose to promote the general well-being
of the municipality, and was not designed merely for the
benefit of individuals or a class, its collection should not be
stayed by the courts."
In Taylor v. Thompson (supra) the court, by way of illustrating the doctrine there laid down, said: " The creation of a
police force, the establishment of a reform school for juvenile
offenders, or a hospital for persons ill with contagious disease,
-would not directly benefit a non-resident taxed for their support;
and yet no person would deny that these are proper ends of
municipal taxation, and justly included in the phrase 'corporate purposes.!"
This analysis of the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois sufficiently indicates what was, at the time these bonds
were issued, the established authoritative exposition of the
phrase "corporate purposes." It is to be observed that when
these bonds, by the joint action of the county and State authorities, were transmitted to the State of Pennsylvania for sale
to its citizens, there was in the published decisions of the
State court the broad declaration that "the establishment of a
reform school for juvenile offenders" was beyond question a
proper object of municipal taxation, and was a corporate purpose within the meaning of the constitution.

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON v. DARLINGTON.

Oct. 1879.]

418

It is necessary that we should now trace the course of decisions subsequently rendered by that court.
In Chicago, Danville, & Vincennes Railroad Co. v. Smith, already cited, it was ruled that a township donation, made under
legislative authority, and with the sanction of a popular vote,
was a corporate purpose for which a tax could be assessed by
the proper authorities of such township. The court there said:
"It is contended that the appropriation was not for a corporate purpose. If it was for a public purpose - for the benefit
of the inhabitants of the municipality - then it would be for
a corporatepurpose. The latter cannot be distinguished from
the former; and all that we have said in relation to the public
purpose of the tax will apply with equal force to a corporate
purpose. .

.

. In

Taylor v. Thompson (42 Ill. 9) this court

defined a corporate purpose to mean ' a tax to be expended in
a manner which shall promote the general prosperity and welfare of the municipality which levies it.' We accept this definition," &c. 74 Ill. 277; Town of .Diddleportv. ,tna Life
iszuranee Co., 82 id. 562; Lippineott v. Town of Pana, decided October, 1879.
We come now to a case which, with entire respect for the
very able and enlightened tribunal by which it was determined,
we are constrained to say does not seem to be in line with its
previous decisions, or with subsequent decisions to which we
shall presently refer. We allude to Livingston County v. Weide
(64 Il1. 427), decided more than three years after the bonds
and coupons in suit were issued under legislative authority,
and their proceeds received and used by the State. That was
a suit in chancery, commenced in the State court by the board
of supervisors of Livingston County against the county treasurer, to enjoin the latter from paying out money which had
been collected to meet the interest upon the identical bonds
whose validity is here questioned. None of the holders of
the bonds were made parties to the suit. No attempt was
made to bring them before the court in any form. It is not,
therefore binding upon them as a final adjudication of the
questions now before us. Brooklyn v. Insurance Company, 99
U. S. 362; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 id. 714; Empire v. Darlington, supra, p. 87.

COUNTY OF LivINGSTON v. DARLINGTON.

[Sup. Ct.

It was held in Livingston County v. lTeide not to be a corporate purpose, in the constitutional sense, to provide a location
for a State institution. After stating it to be the duty of the
legislature to determine for the whole people the necessity for
a State reform school, and that it was degrading to the State,
and reflected no honor upon it to accept a donation from a particular locality to secure the location of a State institution, the
court proceeds: "What peculiar interest have the tax-payers of
Livingston County, or non-residents owning property therein,
in such an institution being located in their midst? What
corporate purpose does it specially promote by such location ?
What is a reform school? It is a penitentiary on a small
scale, as is evident from the statute cited. How can it be a
corporate purpose to establish -what all admit is a necessary
evil, a State reform school, in any town? It is a State, not a
corporate purpose."
Upon these grounds the bonds issued by the county were
held to be null and void, by whomsoever owned. It is to be
observed that the court, in that case, refers, but without disapproval, to the definition of corporate purposes as given in
Taylor v. Thompson, and, recognizing the inherent difficulty of
laying down any precise rule applicable to every case, says:
"The true doctrine is, such purposes, and such only [are corporate purposes] as are germane to the objects of the creation
of the municipality, at least such as have a legitimate connection with those objects, and a manifest relation thereto."
The binding authority of that case is disputed by defendant
in error upon the ground that his rights accrued long prior to
its decision, and under a settled construction of the State constitution favorable to the validity of the acts of 1867 and 1869.
He further contends that the rule announced in Livingston
County v. Weide'was substantially abrogated, if not entirely
overthrown by subsequent decisions of the same court, particularly those in Burr v. City of Carbondale (76 Ill. 455) and
Hensley Township v. The People, 84 id. 544.
In Burr v. City of Garbondale the question presented was
whether a tax, levied by a city under legislative authority, to
pay interest on city bonds, issued to secure the location, within its
limits, of a State institution, called the Southern Normal Uni-

Oct. 1879.]

COUNTY OF LIVINGSTON V.DARLINGTON.

415

versity was or not a corporate purpose within the meaning of the
Constitution of 1848. The court held that it was. And if we
do not misapprehend altogether the grounds upon which the
decision rests, they were: 1. That the university was, in the
judgment of the court, an actual benefit to the community in
which it was located. 2. That the bonds were issued after a
vote of the people who were to be taxed for their payment. That
case was distinguished from Livingston County v. Weide in these
respects : that a State reform school was, in the judgment of the
court, an undoubted injury, not an advantage, to the community in which it was located, and, therefore, to aid it by municipal taxation was not a corporate purpose; and, further,
that the bonds, in that case, were issued without a vote of the
people.
As to the objection that the bonds, under the State Reform
School act, were issued without taking the sense of the people,
it is sufficient to say that the board of supervisors were the
corporate authorities of the county, and that the Supreme
Court of Illinois had decided, under the constitution of 1848,
as early as Town of Keithsburg v. Frick (34 Ill. 405), and
again in Marshall v. Silliman. (61 id. 218), and, finally, in
1870, in Quincy, _Mssouri, and Pacific Railroad Co. v. llorris
(84 id. 411), that it was "by no means a necessary element in
these [municipal] subscriptions that there should be a vote of
the inhabitants of a town or city authorizing them. It is competent for the legislature to bestow the power directly" upon
those who, in legal contemplation, were the corporate authorities of the municipality. Roberts v. Bolles, supra, 119.
In Hen sley Towtns/ip v. The People, supra, it was held, upon
the authority of Burr v. City of Carbondale, that a county tax
levied in payment of bonds issued, under legislative authority,
to secure the location, within that county, of a State Industrial
university, was a tax for a corporate purpose.
Upon this review of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Illinois our conclusion is that, testing the validity of these
bonds by the decisions of that tribunal, rendered prior to and
unmodified at the date of their issue, we would be obliged to
hold they were issued for a corporate purpose. And, while
the doctrines announced in Livingston County v. Weide, if

COUNTY

OF LIVINGSTON V. DARLINGTON.

[Sup.

at.

applied here, would establish their invalidity, the principles
enunciated in previous cases, and in the subsequent cases of
Burr v. City of Carbondale and Hfensley Township v. The People seem quite as clearly to sustain their validity. If, as adjudged by the Supreme Court of Illinois, it was, within the
true meaning of the Constitution of 1848, a corporate purpose
to impose taxes to pay bounties to those who enlisted or were
drafted in the army of the United States, or to secure the location of a State Normal or State Industrial University, or to pay
municipal bonds issued, by way of donation, to aid in the construction of a railroad - if taxation, in the constitutional sense,
was for a corporate purpose whenever imposed for a public
purpose - we do not perceive upon what just ground it can be
held not to be a corporate purpose for a municipality to make,
under express legislative authority, a donation to secure the
location within its limits of a State reform school, wherein
juvenile offenders and vagrants may receive such care, discipline, education, and employment as, while effecting or contributing to their reformation, will protect the community in
which they live from the evils and dangers which confessedly
result from idleness and vagrancy among the young.
Had the acts under which these bonds were issued provided
for the establishment of a reform school in Livingston County,
for the discipline, education, employment, and reformation of
juvenile offenders and vagrants within its limits, it would not
be claimed, in view of the course of decisions in the State
court, that the legislature has transcended its constitutional
power. That the school established was a State institution, to
be maintained after being established at the expense of the
State, but in the benefits of which the county where it was
located could participate, does not, it seems to us, affect the
question of legislative power. It is a matter rather of public
policy or expediency, the determination of which, the power
existing, belongs to the legislative department. It was well
said by the Supreme Court of Illinois, that "in the enactment
of laws the legislature must exercise its judgment and discretion. As to questions of pure policy and expediency, no express
or necessarily implied constitutional provision intervening, it is
the sole judge. It has also the undoubted right to take a com-

Oct. 1879.]

V. MANIERRE.
8MOHR

prehensive view in determining the necessity of a law, and the
character of the purpose to be accomplished by it. A court,
with any propriety, cannot arrogate to itself all power and
wisdom in such matters; and if there be grave doubt as to the
nature of the purpose, the doubt must always be solved in
favor of the action of the legislature." 62 Ill. 273. In a previous case the court had said that "a proper respect for the
legislative department requires us to regard its acts as prima
facie constitutional." 42 Ill. 14.
We express no opinion as to what, in our judgment, is the
true exposition of those parts of the Illinois Constitution to
which reference has been made, or as to the wisdom or propriety of such legislation as that under examination.
Our purpose has been to ascertain what was the law of the
State as expounded by its highest judicial tribunal. And
while, perhaps, the judgment of the Circuit Court might, in
view of our own decisions, be sustained upon other grounds, it
is sufficient for the disposition of this case to say, that the adjudications of the State court do not show any such settled or
uniform construction of the State Constitution upon the questions here involved as would justify us, with proper respect to
the legislative department of Illinois, in holding that it had
transgressed her fundamental law.
Judgment affirmed.

MOEIR V. MANIERRE.
The statute of Wisconsin which provides for the sale of the real estate of a
lunatic to pay his debts when his personal property is insufficient therefor,
enacts that the order of the county court to show cause why the application
of the guardian for a license to sell such real estate shall not be granted "shall
be published at least four successive weeks in such newspaper as the court
shall order, and a copy thereof shall be served personally on all persons interested in the estate and residing in the county in which such application is
made, at least fourteen days before the day therein appointed for showing
cause: provided however, if all persons interested in the estate shall signify in
writing their assent to such . . . sale the notice may be dispensed with." It
also enacts that the court "upon proof of the due service or publication of a
VOL X1.
27

