Oct. 1879.1

LITCHFIELD V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.

LITCmFIELD V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.
COUNTY OF WEBSTER V. LITcEFLELD.
1.

lVdsey v. Chapman (supra, p. 755) reaffirmed.

2. This court adhering to the construction given by the Supreme Court of Iowa
to the revenue laws of that State touching the time when lands located or
entered under the laws of the United States, or purchased from the State,
become taxable, holds that the lands, the title whereto by the joint resolution

of Congress approved Mlarch 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 251), passed to bonafide purchasers of that State, were not subject to taxation prior to the year 1862.
3. Where the State claimed adversely to the true owner a part of said lands,
and there was a controversy whether the title to the remainder had passed
from the United States, and, on that account, the proper authorities of the
State gave notice to the parties in interest that no legal steps would be

taken to enforce the collection of the taxes until the title should be adjusted,
-Held, that the statutory interest, which is in the nature of a penalty, cannot be exacted for non-payment of them within the time prescribed by law,
where the owner, on the adjustment of the title, offered to pay so much of

them as was actually due, with interest thereon at the rate allowed by law
for delay in the payment of ordinary debts, and his offer was refused.
4. A court of equity has, under such circumstances, the power to grant relief by
enjoining the collection of such statutory interest.
APPEALS from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Iowa.
Litchfield filed, Sept. 29, 1873, his bill of complaint against
the county of Webster, Iowa, and Hutchinson, its treasurer,
seeking to enjoin the collection of the taxes levied for 1859,
1860, 1861, 1862, 1863, 1864, 1865, and 1866 on lands whereof
he claimed to be the owner. They amount to 32,602N% acres,
and are situate in that county in the alternate odd-numbered
sections, within five miles of that part of the Des Moines River
which is above the Raccoon Fork.
The principal of the taxes, when the case was submitted to
the court below, was $10,174.76, and the penalty claimed for
the non-payment of them, $64,235.41, making a total of
$74,410.17.

These lands are a portion of those, which gave rise to a long
protracted controversy, of which Wolsey v. Chapmran (supra,
p. 755) furnishes a complete history.
The facts which this suit involves are stated with sufficient
fulness in the opinion of the court.

LITCHFIELD V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

The court below, considering the penalties prescribed by the
revenue laws of Iowa, as in the nature of interest rather than
as statutory penalties proper, held that the complainant, by
reason of the acts of the State and its officers, was entitled to
relief upon his paying the full amount of taxes from 1862 to
1866 inclusive, with annual interest thereon at the rate of six per
cent; and that the lands were not subject to taxation for the
preceding years. A decree was entered accordingly, and each
party appealed.
Mr. aeorge C. Wright for Litchfield.
Mr. John F. Duncombe, contra.
MR. CHIF JUSTICE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The primary question to be decided in this case is as to
the time when the lands which passed to the bona fide purchasers from the State of Iowa under the joint resolution of
Congress approved March 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 251), became taxable by the laws of the State. The controversy is about taxes
assessed for the years 1859,1860, 1861, 1862, 1863, 1864, 1865,
and 1866.
The facts affecting the, title are fully stated in Wolsey v.
Chapman (supra, p. 755), where we held, following the principles settled in Dubluque & Pacific Bailroad Co. v. Litchfield (23 How. 66), Wolcott v. -Des Moines Company (5 Wall.
681), .Riley v. Wells, not reported, Williams v. Raker (17
Wall. 144), and Homestead Company v. Valley Railroad (id.
153), that the United States continued to own the lands until
the adoption of the joint resolution. No lands were included
in the original river grant of 1846, except those below the
Raccoon Fork. While on account of the action of the Executive Department of the general government those above the
Fork were reserved from sale and did not pass to the State
when selected as school lands under the act of 1841, or as railroad lands by the grant of 1856, and were not open to pre-emption entry, they were not actually donated by the United States
to the State, or to the purchasers from her, until the joint resolution was adopted. The grant made by that resolution was
just as much an original grant as if the act of 1846 had never

Oct. 1879.]

LITCHFIELD V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.

been passed. The order of the Executive Department, reserving them from sale, neither transferred any title to, nor created
any interest in, the State. It simply retained the ownership in
the United States. While the subsequent gift was undoubtedly
induced by what had happened before, the United States, until
it was made, continued to be the proprietor of the lands, both
in law and in equity. Such being the case, they were not taxable before March 2,1861. They, down to that time, actually
belonged to the United States, and no one else had any interest
whatever in them.
This disposes of the taxes for the years 1859 and 1860, but
another question arises as to those of 1861. Under the revenue laws of Iowa, in force at that time, government lands
entered or located, or lands purchased from the State, could not
be taxed for the year in which the entry, location, or purchase
was made. Laws of Iowa, Rev. 1860, p. 110, sect. 711, par. 7.
In The McGregor &. Al.Railroad Co. v. Brown (39 Iowa,
655), this was held to mean that government lands were not
taxable until the next year after a patent could be demanded
for them. To the same general effect are Iowa Palls & Sioux
City Railroad v. Cherokee County, 87 Iowa, 483; Goodrich
v. Beaman, id. 563; Iowa Palls & Sioux City Railroad v.
Woodbury County, 38 id. 498. The revenue year of the
State for 1861 commenced before March. It is clear, therefore, that the lands were not taxable for that year. They were
neither entered, located, purchased from the State, nor patented,
within the meaning of the revenue laws, until then.
We think, however, that for the year 1862 and thereafter
they were taxable. By the joint resolution, Congress relinquished all the title the United States then retained to the
lands which had before that time been certified by the Department of the Interior as part of the river grant, and which
were held by bona fide purchasers under the State. No further
conveyance was necessary to complete the transfer, and the
description was sufficient to identify the property. The title
thus relinquished inured at once to the benefit of the purchasers for whose use the relinquishment was made. All the
lands involved in this suit had been certified, and Litchfield,
or those under whom he claims, were bona fide purchasers from

LITCHFIELD

V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

the State. It matters not, so far as this branch of the case is
concerned, that at that time there were doubts as to whether
the United States retained any title which could pass under the
resolution.
That question-has now been settled in favor of
Litchfield, and it has also been decided that after the resolution went into effect the United States had no longer any interest in the property, legal or equitable. It became private
property, and as such subject to taxation under the revenue
laws of the State.
It only remains to consider whether, under the circumstances
of this case, it is within the power of a court of equity to enjoin the collection of the interest or penalty which the revenue laws of the State require the treasurer of the county to
collect in case taxes legally assessed are not paid within the
time fixed by law. The statutes regulating this matter are as
follows: "SE cT. 759. On the first day of February, the unpaid taxes, of
whatever description, for the preceding year shall become delinquent, and shall draw interest, as hereinafter provided; .. .
"SECT. 760. The treasurer shall continue to receive taxes after
they have become delinquent, until collected by distress and sale ;
but if they are not paid before the 1st of March, he shall collect as
a penalty for non-payment, from each tax-payer so delinquent, one
per cent of the amount of his tax additional, and if not paid before
the first day of April, he shall collect another one per cent additional, and so for each full month which shall expire before the tax
shall have been paid. The treasurer shall, in all cases, make out
and deliver to the tax-payer a receipt for taxes paid, stating the
time of payment, the description of the land, the amount of each
kind of tax, the interest on each, and costs, if any, giving a separate
receipt for each year; and shall make the proper entries of such
payments in the books of his office, and such receipt shall be in full
for his taxes that year; . . ."

By sect. 761 the clerk of the county board of supervisors is
required to keep full and complete accounts with the county
treasurer, and, among other things, to charge him with "interest on delinquent taxes," and "on the first day of each month
ascertain the amount of delinquent and unpaid taxes of all
classes on said day, and charge said treasurer in said account

Oct. 1879.]

LITCHFIELD V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.

with one per cent on the amount thereof to be collected by
him, as provided in sect. 52 [sect. 760] of this act." Laws of
Iowa, Rev. 1860, pp. 118, 119. On the first day of October in
each year the treasurer is required to offer at public sale all the
lands on which the taxes for the previous year had not been
paid. Of this sale notice was to be given by advertisement.
Sect. 763, p. 119.
It appears from the agreed statement of the parties that the
lands about which this controversy arises amount in the aggregate to 32,602-1% acres. Of this, 3,301 acres are part of the
school lands selected by the State under the act of 1841, the
particulars of which appear in JJ'olseyj v. Chapman (supra.), and
about 17,000 acres fall within the limits of the railroad grant
of 1856, also referred to in that case. In respect to the school
lands, it appears that the State has at all times claimed title
adverse to that of Litchfield and his grantors. In the adjustment of the controversies with the United States, as was seen
in that case, the agent acting on behalf of the State was specifically required not to relinquish any claim of the State to its
selections under the act of 1841; and even at the present term
of this court the State has appeared here as a litigant, asserting its own title and that of its grantees as superior and paramount to that of Litchfield.
As to the railroad grant of 1856, the agreed statement shows
that on the demand of the State the 17,000 acres now in controversy were certified for the benefib of the Dubuque and
Pacific Railroad Company. This claim on the part of the
State was maintained and constantly asserted adversely to
Litchfield until the case of IVolaott v. Des foines Company
(5 Wall. 681) was decided in this court at the December
Term, 1866. That decision settled the dispute as to these
lands, and from that time Litchfield has paid all taxes as they
were annually assessed.
The State has never claimed adversely to Litchfield any portion of the remaining 12,000 acres, but the United States maintained that the title did not pass by the joint resolution of
March 2, 1861, so as to cut off pre-emption and homestead entries. That question remained open until the December Term,
1869, of this court, when it was settled in the case of .Riley] v.

LITCHFIELD V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Wells. Until then, or, at least, until the adjustment between
the United States and the State, in 1866, the title of the navigation company and its grantees to this portion of its lands
was disputed by the United States, and sales conflicting with
those of the navigation company were made at the government
land-offices.
On the 21st of September, 1860, the treasurer and recorder
of Webster County wrote to the agent of the navigation company, the grantor of Litehfield, to the effect that the lands
were on the tax-book, but that until the title was adjusted they
would not be advertised for sale. Before that time, on the
14th of June, 1860, the auditor of state wrote the auditors of
the several counties ini which the disputed lands were situated,
as follows: -

" We conclude, in view of the so-called river lands, and the
further question as to their being liable to tax, that it would be
well not to offer them for sale for the taxes until these matters
are determined or adjusted in some manner. There are two
questions in regard to them. Firstly, has the State any title
to them under the river grant? which it is reported has been
decided in the negative, but of which we have no official information; 2d, whether they are taxable prior to 1859 as the
property of the river company or their grantees. The last
question I thought had been decided by our courts, but learn
from Attorney-General Rice that there is some doubt about it.
Upon the whole, it is thought best not to sell at present, lest it
may lead to unnecessary trouble and expense."
It also appears from the statement of facts that during the
years 1863, 1864, 1865, and 1866 the taxes charged against
the property were in some particulars in excess of what the
law allowed. No person was designated on the tax-book as
owner. Any one could pay the taxes and get a receipt. If
one of the contesting claimants paid them supposing the
lands were his, he could not, if he finally failed to maintain
his title, recover from the real owner what he thus advanced.
We so held in Homestead Company v. Valley Railroad,17 Wall.
153.
It thus appears that while Litchfield or his grantor was in
reality the owner of the lands from 1862 to 1866, and bound

Oct. 1879.]

LITCHFIELD V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.

to pay the taxes for those years as assessed, the State, from
which the taxing power came, disputed his title and set up an
adverse claim in its own right to something more than 20,000
acres. At the same time, the United States disputed his own-.
ership of the remaining 12,000 acres. All this was known to
the State authorities, and in view of the facts the State, by its
proper officer, gave notice to the parties in interest that the
lands would be put on the annual tax-books and charged with
the taxes the owner should pay, if the title had passed out of
the United States or the State, in law or in equity, but that, to
avoid "unnecessary trouble and expense," no legal steps would
be taken to enforce the collection "until the title was adjusted."
This we understand to be the legal effect of the instructions of
the auditor of state to the treasurers of the several counties in
which the disputed lands were situated, and the communication from the treasurer of Webster County to the agent of the
navigation company, made while the tax-books of 1859 and
1860 were in his hands for collection. As soon as the title
was adjusted, and even before, Litchfield or those under whom
he claims commenced the payment of the annual taxes as they
fell due, and offered to pay those of 1862, 1863, 1864, 1865,
and 1866, with interest at the rate allowed by law for delay in
the payment of ordinary debts; but the treasurer declined to
receive less than the statutory interest or penalty, unless the
taxes of 1859, 1860, and 1861 were included. Although the
lands were advertised for sale in 1862 and annually thereafter,
they were purposely withheld from sale until this suit was commenced.
Under these circumstances, we think equity may relieve
against that part of the statutory interest which is in the
nature of a penalty. This provision was undoubtedly made to
secure promptness in the payment of taxes when actually due
and demandable. It was evidently not intended so much as
punishment for non-payment as compensation for delay. In
all parts of the statute, except sect. 760, it is spoken of as interest. In one place in that section it is termed a penalty, but
in another referred to as interest. The amount increases as
the time of payment is put off. Now it seems clear to us that
if a State, under whose authority a tax is levied, sets up a title

LITCHFIELD V. OOUNTY OP WEBSTER.

[Sup. Ot.

in itself to the property taxed adverse to that of the true owner,
and, to save "unnecessary trouble and expense," forbears to
enforce the collection until the "title is adjusted," no claim can
properly be made for extraordinary compensation on account
of a delay in payment of the tax which may fairly be said to
have been brought about by its own wrongful acts. Under the
circumstances, Litchfield and his grantor might well have supposed that the taxes as charged were not to be treated as "delinquent," until in some form it had been determined whether
the lands taxed were in law taxable. It now appears that the
adverse claims of the State and the United States were unjust,
and that Litchfield is bound for the payment of the taxes of
1862 and thereafter. He, therefore, actually owes the money
called for by the taxes, and may properly be charged with such
interest after the taxes became due as is by law payable on
other money obligations; but the extraordinary compensation
given by the statute for delay in payment of taxes charged on
the tax-books, and in the regular process of collection, occupies
a different position. It is an elementary principle in equity
jurisprudence, that if money is lying dead to meet an obligation, and delay in its payment is caused by the fault of him to
whom it is to be paid, interest during the delay is not recoverable. Here the delay was caused by the improper interference
of the State and the United States with the title. Litchfield
himself has been guilty of no fraud or wilful default. The
State has voluntarily abstained from enforcing the collection
because of doubts about its right to do so, and Litchfield has
had the use of his money while the dispute remained unsettled.
As soon as the title was adjusted he offered to pay what was
actually due, with ordinary interest; and this was refused.
Under these circumstances, we think the court below was
right in enjoining the collection of all penalty or interest in
excess of six per cent per annum. In Stryker v. Polk County
(22 Iowa, 137), there is a strong intimation that in a.case like
this such relief might be granted. None of the objections
which were found to granting the injunction asked for in that
case exist here, and it is clearly made to appear that the action
of the State affected the title of this plaintiff prejudicially.
Such a case was made by the bill, and established by the evi-

Oct. 1879.]

LITOFIELD V. COUNTY OF WEBSTER.

dence. It may fairly be inferred from what is said in Litchfield v. (Jounty of H7amilton (40 Iowa, 66), that in such a case
the courts of the State would afford the remedy.
Although taxes in Iowa are levied and collected by the counties, all is done under the authority of the State, and the counties are charged with whatever is done by the State affecting
the rights of the tax-payer. No complaint is made by Litchfield of the -amount found due from him by the court below, if
the decree is in other respects right, as we find it to be.
.Decree affirmed, each party to pay the costs of his own appeal.
NOTE. - In Litchfild v. County of Hamilton, error to the Supreme Court of the
State of Iowa, which was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. George G.
W|right for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Daniel D. Chase for the defendants
in error,
IR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked,
that the only Federal question presented was whether the lands in Hamilton
County, which Litchfleld held by the same title he did those in Webster County,
involved in the preceding case, were taxable for the years 1859, 1860,1861, 1862,
1863, 186 4, and 1865. For the reasons stated in the other case, the court held
that the taxes for 1859, 1860, and 1861 were illegal, and their collection should
be enjoined, but that those for 1862 and the following years were properly collectible. The court below decided that they were legally assessed for all the
years, and decreed that they be paid in full, with all interest, penalties, and
costs. The liability of Litchfield for interest and penalties after 1861 did not
present any Federal question.
The decree of the State court was reversed, and the cause remanded with
directions to enjoin the collection of all taxes and charges on the lands in question for the years 1859, 1860, and 1861, but with leave to enter such further
decree in reference to the taxes of 1862 and thereafter as the court should be
advised might be proper under the circumstances.

