Oct. 1879.]

UNITED STATES V. DAWSON.

UNITED STATES v. DAwson.
The finding of the Circuit Court upon a question of fact cannot be reviewed on
a writ of error.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
Tite Attorney-aeneral for the plaintiff in error.
.41r. Joseph Hf. Bradley, contra.

RI.JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action on the bond of a collector of internal revenue. After the suit was brought, amicable continuances were
granted, and then several statements of account were made
by the auditing officer of the government. The last of these
stated a balance against the collector of $2,115.25, which was
paid by his executors before final trial. The only question
raised in the court below and sought to be presented here is the
date from which interest should be awarded on that sum.
The counsel for the government cite section 3624 of the
Revised Statutes, which provides that where any person accountable for public money neglects or refuses to pay the sum or
balance found due to the United States upon adjustment by
the proper officer, he shall forfeit his commissions and pay interest at six per cent per annum from the time of receiving the
?noney.
There is no question here of the construction of the statute,
but whether the balance finally found due the government was
for money received by him or for something else. The case
was submitted to the court without a jury, and the finding of
facts by the court is part of the record.
From this it appears that about the time the collector went
out of the office he paid a large sum of money, which he
supposed to be all that he owed the government. But he
stood charged on the books of the department with a large
sum for uncollected taxes. It was the adjustment of this
account which occupied the three years in which the suit was
pending.

BUTTERFIELD V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

The court finds that the final balance of $2,115.25 was made
up of these uncollected taxes, for which he was still responsible, and was not for any money actually received by the collector.
Counsel for the government argue against this conclusion.
But whether sound or not, it was a question of fact on which
the finding of that court cannot be reversed here; and its j udgment is accordingly

Affirmed.

BUTTERFIELD V. SMITH.
An executor charged himself in the inventory of the estate of the testator with

a note payable to the latter and secured by mortgage. His accounts were
settled on that basis. An administrator with the will annexed subsequently
brought suit to foreclose the mortgage. Held, 1. That the probate record
showing the inventory and the order for distributing the assets of the testator
is not conclusive evidence that the note has been paid. 2. That an executor's
settlement when adjudicated binds only the parties thereto.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
This suit was brought, Oct. 26, 1877, by Mary A. Smith,
administratrix de bonis non, with the will annexed, of the
estate of Julius C. Wright, deceased, to foreclose a mortgage
made by Daniel M. Adams and wife to secure a note for
$5,000 to said Wright. The latter died in 1874. His will, by
which he appointed George B. Wright his executor, was admitted to probate, and the executor qualified. In an inventory
of the estate this note was included as part of the assets. In
April, 1875, the executor made application to the court for a
final settlement. In his accounts he charged himself with the
full amount of the inventory, and after the allowance of the
proper credits, a balance was found in his hands which was
ordered to be distributed in a specified manner, according to
the terms of the will, but a balance of $6,840.25, one share,
was left in his hands with directions "to invest for Charles
Wright, or pay the money pursuant to the will." The executor
died in 1877. The complainant, shortly after her appointment

