Oct. 1879.]

IMHAEUSER v. BUFRK.

IMA
H.USER v. BUERK.
1. Letters-patent for a combination of old ingredients are infringed by substituting for one of its elements a mechanical equivalent which was well known
to be such when they were granted.
2. Letters-patent No. 48,048, granted June 6, 1865, to Jacob E. Buerk for an improvement in watchman's time detectors, are valid, and are infringed by
letters-patent No. 117,442, granted July 25, 1871, to Anton leyer for an
improvement in watchman's time checks.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This is a suit, commenced July 5, 1872, by Jacob E. Buerk
against William Imhaeuser, Theodore Hahn, and Charles Keinath doing business as Imhaeuser & Co., for the alleged infringement by them of letters-patent No. 48,048, granted to
him June 6, 1865, for an improvement in watchman's time
detectors.
The drawings and specification of his letters are as follows: -

IMHAEUSER

v.

BUERK.

[Sup. Ct.

'9I

" No. 48,048.

"te Schedule referredto in.these Letters-patentand manking art
of the same.
To all whom it mnay concern :
"Be it known that I, Jacob E. Buerk, of Boston, in the county of
Suffolk and State of Massachusetts, have invented a new and improved watchman's time detector, and I do hereby declare that
the following is a fall, clear, and exact description thereof, which
will enable others skilled in the art to make and use the same, ref"

Oct. 1879.]

IMHAEUSER

v.

BUERK.

erence being had to the accompanying drawings forming a part of
this specification, in which,
"Figure 1 represents a face view of this invention.
"Figure 2 is a vertical central section of the same, the line x x,
Figure 1, indicating the plane of section.
"Figure 3 is an inverted plan of the movement.
"Figure 4 is a face view of the same.
"Figure 5 is a diagram representing the keys necessary for the
operation of this invention.
"Similar letters of refer6nce indicate like parts.
"This invention relates to an improvement in that class of
watchman's time detectors on which a patent has been granted to
John Buerk, Jan. 1, 1861. In that case a strip of paper is used
stretched on the circumference of a drum to which a rotary motion
is imparted by a clock or watch movement, and a series of spring
points serve to perforate this strip according to the time when these
points are operated by a series of keys of peculiar shape. On the
strip are marked the hours, corresponding to hours on the dial of
the clock or watch, and the time when one or more of the spring
points have been actuated can be ascertained after the strip has been
taken off. This construction necessitates a drum in addition to the
ordinary clock or watch movement, whereby the expense of the
mechanism is increased, and, furthermore, the operation of applying and removing the strips of paper is tiresome and requires much
care.
" These difficulties are avoided by using a clock or watch with a
stationary index and revolving dial. On this revolving dial are fhstened removable dials of paper or other suitable material, with a
series of circles corresponding to the positions of the spring points,
and these spring points are concealed under the stationary index.
By inserting one of the keys and turning the same round, the paper
dial is pierced by one or more of the spring points, and the time
when this takes place can be ascertained by examining said dial
when the watch or clock is opened. The perforations in the paper
dial are made from below under the stationary hand, leaving a
slight barb on the upper surface, and a similar perforation cannot
be produced even if the watch or clock be opened, except if the
paper dial is taken off.
"cArepresents a clock or watch movement made in the ordinary manner, and provided with a revolving dial, B, which is
mounted on the centre shaft, Q, in place of the ordinary hands, and

IMHAEUSER

v. BUERK.

[Sup. Ot.

which rotates under the stationary index, D. The dial is marked
with figures from 1 to 12, and it revolves once in twelve hours.
From this dial project two or more points, a, which serve to retain
a false dial, .E, of paper or other suitable material, and this dial is
held in place by a disk, b, which slips over the centre shaft, and
which is provided with little holes or sockets to correspond in
number and position to the points a. The paper dial, E, is marked
with figures from 1 to 12, like the main dial, and with a series of
concentric rings, c, corresponding in number to the stations in the
beat. The paper. dial shown in the drawing is marked with six
rings, to- correspond to six different stations.
"The spaces between the rings, c, correspond in number and
position to a series of spring points, d, the points of which are
situated under the index _D, and made to project through a slot
in the dial-plate B'. When left to follow their own elasticity,
said spring points do not reach above the surface of the dialplate, but they are so arranged that one or more of them can
be forced up simultaneously and made to penetrate the paper
dial, different keys, _ being provided, each of which serves to
raise one of said spring points, or of a combination of two or
more of them.
" One of the keys is intended to be fastened by a chain or other
suitable means to a post or other fixed part on each station in the
beat of the watchman, and the watchman carries the watch. On
arriving at a station he inserts the key, and by turning the same
a perforation is produced which gives a record of the time when
the watchman has visited the station. The watch, of course, is
intended to be locked, so that the watchman cannot get at the
paper dial in order to produce fraudulent perforations to cover a
neglect of his duty, and the keys, simple as they look, are so
shaped that they cannot easily be imitated, for the slightest difference in the height or position of the bit would produce a different
action.
"Having thus described my invention,
"I claim as new and desire to secure by letters-patent, "1st, The use of a false revolving dial, B, in combination with the
stationary index, D, and spring points, d, constructed and operating substantially and for the purpose set forth.
" 2d, Producing the perforations on the paper dial, or its
equivalent, from the inside out instead of from the outside in, as
before."

Oct. 1879.]

IMHAEUSER v.BUERK.

651

The bill was taken as confessed against Keinath. Imhaeuser
and Hahn filed an answer denying the infringement and setting
up that the indicators manufactured by them were made under
letters-patent No. 117,442, granted July 25, 1871, to Anton
Meyer, of Stuttgart, Germany, for an improvement in watchman's time checks; and that the complainant's letters are void
for want of novelty, the invention therein claimed having been
anticipated by a French patent granted to one Nolet in 1847 ;
another granted in the same year to one Schwilgue; English
letters No. 957, granted in 1852 to John Rowbotham; English
letters No. 1431, granted in 1862 to Thomas Buckney; and in
a German work by Emanuel Schreiber, entitled, "Dr. Friedrich Wilhelm Barfuss's Geschechte der Uhrmacher Kunst von
den Ultester Zeiten bis auf unsere Tage," published in the year
1856 by Bernh. Friedr. Voeght, in Weimar, Germany.
The drawings and specification of Meyer's letters are as follows: -

IHAEUSER

v. BuE[pC

[Sup. Ct.

"Specification forming part of Letters-patent No. 117,442, dated
Jidy 25, 1871.
"To allwhom it may concern:
"Be it known that I, Anton Meyer, of Stuttgart, in the empire
of Germany, have invented a new and useful improvement in
watchman's time detectors; and I do hereby declare the following
to be a full, clear, and exact description thereof, which will enable
those skilled in, the art to make and use the same, reference being
had to the accompanying drawing forming part of this specification,
in which drawing"Figure 1 represents a face view of this invention. Fig. 2 is a
similar view of the same, the dial-plate being partially broken away
to expose the marking-dies. Fig. 3 is a transverse central section
of the same. Fig. 4 is a detached section of the cam-shaped bridge.
"Similar letters indicate corresponding parts.
"This invention consists in the arrangement of one or more stationary marking-dies in the face-plate of a watch or clock in combi-

Oct. 1879.]

IMLAEUSER v. BUERK.

nation with a cam-shaped bridge extending over the marking-die or
dies, and with one or more keys, the bit or bits of which correspond
in position to the marking die or dies in such a manner that, by affixing a disk of paper or other suitable material to the movable dialplate of the watch or clock, and causing said disk to revolve between
the stationary marking die or dies and the cam-shaped bridge, the
key or keys, on being introduced into the watch or clock-case and
turned in the proper direction under the cam-shaped bridge, will
depress the paper or other material on the marking-die corresponding to the position of its bit, and the exact time when the watchman has visited a certain room or station on his beat will be recorded
on the disk of paper or other material.
"In the drawing, A designates the case of a watch or clock, in
which is firmly secured a stationary face-plate, a, the central part
of which is cut out to make room for a disk, b, which is secured to
an arbor, c. This arbor connects by suitable gear with the clockmovement, and it revolves once in twelve hours. The surface of
the disk b is flush with the surface of the stationary face-plate a, and
it is provided with two or more points, d, so that a dial, e, of paper
or other suitable material can be readily attached to it, and that,
when such dial is placed on the disk, it will be compelled to follow
the motion of the same. From the face-plate a project one or more
stationary dies, f the faces of which have engraved or otherwise
produced in them figures, letters, or other suitable characters, and
which, when more than one such die is used, are set in a radial direction, as shown in Fig. 2 of the drawing. These dies are situated
beneath a bridge, g, which is firmly secured to the case a, and
which is perforated with a hole, h, to receive the key .. The under surface of the bridge is cam-shaped, as shown in Fig. 4, and the
upper surface of the key is rounded, so that, when the key is inserted
into the key-hole and turned round under the bridge, the projection
i on said key will be depressed toward the die, and the dial, e, which
is carried through between the dies and the bridge, will receive an
impression to correspond to the face of the die. The position of the
projection i on the key, of course, must correspond to the position
of the die, and if more than one die is used several keys have to be
prepared, one for each die. These keys are intended to be secured
in the various rooms or stations composing the beat of the watchman, the watchman carrying the clock or watch, the case of which
is locked by a key in the possession of the superintendent or proprietor of the place. On reaching a certain station the watchman
inserts the key in his clock, and, by turning it, a mark is produced

IMHAEUSER V. BUERx.

[Sup. Ot.

on the dial e indicating the station. On the dial is also marked a
time-table, j, and the bridge g may serve as the index pointing on
the divisions of the time-table. As the dial is carried around by
the clock-movement, the time when a mark is produced on the dial
by one of the keys can be read off from the time-table, and the
movements of the watchman on his beat can be controlled. If the
number of stations in the beat exceeds the number of the markingdies in the clock, keys can be prepared with two or more projections, and with six marking dies a large number of stations can be
controlled. If desired, the bridge g may be made yielding, so that
its action on the key will depend not only on its cam-shaped face,
but also on the action of a spring having a tendency to force said
bridge in toward the marking die or dies.
"I am aware that a watchman's time detector has been heretofore
made in which spring marking-points are used to indicate the different rooms or stations in the beat, such as described in the patent
of J. E. Buerk, June 6, 1865. For these spring marking-points I'
have substituted stationary dies representing figures or letters,
whereby the stations of a beat are readily recognized; and, furthermore, the stationary dies are easier made than the spring markingpoints, they are less liable to get out of order, and the impressions
produced by them cannot be forged without having exact counterfeits of the dies.
"I disclaim every thing shown and described in the patent of J. E.
Buerk, above mentioned.
"What I claim as new, and desire to secure by letters-patent,
is-

"The stationary marking die or dies, situated beneath a camshaped bridge, in combination with a suitable key or keys and with
a dial passing through between the marking die or dies and the
bridge, substantially as herein shown and described."
The court passed a decree in favor of the complainant, and
granted him a perpetual injunction restraining the defendants
from making, manufacturing, or causing to be manufactured,
using, or vending to others to be used, watchman's time detectors embracing, containing, or using the invention described in
and secured by the said letters-patent No. 48,048.
Imhaeuser thereupon appealed to this court.
Mr. Arthur v. Briesen for the appellant.
The complainant's patent is void. Mere duplication of
devices is not patentable.

Oct. 1879.]

IMHAEUSER

v. BUERm.

Invention, in the sense of the patent law, is the finding
out, contriving, devising, or creating by an operation of the
intellect something new and useful which did not exist before.
.Ransom v. .Iayor, I Fish. Pat. Cas. 252. A contrivance which
does not require the exercise of inventive power is not patentable. The Corn-PlanterPatent,23 Wall. 181. Enlargement of
the organization of a machine does not afford any ground, in
the sense of the patent law, for a patent. -Phillipsv. Page, 24
How. 164. The mere change of location of an old device is not
patentable, if the result is the same as before. MarsA v. -Dodge
et al., 6 Fish. Pat. Cas. 562. The mere transfer of a mode of
constructing wooden slides and metallic slides is not invention.
Carter v. 31essinger, 11 Blatchf. 34. There is nothing new in
the multiplication of parts. Wilbur v. Beecher, 2 id. 132.
The defendant's device does not infringe. Form, when of
the essence of the invention, is necessarily material; and if it be
inseparable from the successful operation of the machine, the
attainment of the same object by a machine different in form
is not an infringement. Werner v. Eing, 96 U. S. 218. Every
man has the right to make an improvement in a machine and
evade a previous patent, provided he does not invade the rights
of the patentee. Burr v. -Duryee, 1 Wall. 531; Seymour v.
Osborne, 11 id. 516 ; Johnson v. Root, 1 Fish. Pat. Cas. 351.
Where the defendant in constructing his machine omits
entirely one of the ingredients of the plaintiff's combination
without substituting any other, he does not infringe; and if he
substitutes another in the place of the one omitted, which is
new or which performs a substantially different function, or, if
old, was not known at the date of plaintiff's invention, as a
proper substitute for the omitted ingredient, then he does not
infringe. Gould v. Besse, 15 Wall. 187; Fuller v. Yentzer,
94 U. S. 288, 297; Carverv. Hyde, 16 Pet. 513; Brooks v. -iske,
15 How. 212.
Hr. J. Van Santvoord, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Equivalents may be claimed by a patentee of an invention
consisting of a combination of old elements or ingredients, as
well as of any other valid patented improvement, provided the

IMHAEUSER V. BUERK.

[Sup. Ct.

arrangement of the parts composing the invention is new, and
will produce a new and useful result.
Such a patentee may doubtless invoke the doctrine of
equivalents as against an infringer of the patent: but the term
"equivalent," as applied to such an invention, is special in
its signification,.and somewhat different from what is meant
when the term is applied to an invention consisting of a new
device or an entirely new machine.
Pressure in a machine may be produced by a spring or by a
weight; and where that is so, the one is a mechanical equivalent
of the other. Cases arise also where a rod and an endless
chain will produce the same effect in a machine; and where
that is so, the constructor in operating under the patent may
substitute the one for the other, and still claim the protection
which the patent confers. Exactly the same function in certain
cases may be accomplished by a lever or by a screw; and where
that is so, the substitution of the one for the other cannot be
regarded as invention.
Patentees of an invention consisting merely of a combination
of old ingredients are entitled to equivalents, by which is meant
that the patent in respect to each of the respective ingredients
comprising the invention covers every other ingredient which,
in the same arrangement of the parts, will perform the same
function, if it was well known as a proper substitute for the
one described in the specification at the date of the patent.
Hence it follows that a party who merely substitutes another
old ingredient for one of the ingredients of the patented combination is an infringer if the substitute performs the same
function as the ingredient for which it is so substituted, and it
appears that it was well known at the date of the patent that
it was adaptable to that use. Gill v. Wells, 22 Wall. 1, 28.
Due process was issued against the present respondent and
two others, to wit, Theodore Hahn and Charles Keinath, all of
whom were duly served, but the respondent last named never
filed an answer, and submitted to a decree pro confesso. Both
of the other respondents appeared and jointly answered, setting
up two principal defences: 1. That the complainant was not
the original and first inventor of the improvement. 2. They
deny in their answer that they have in any manner infringed

Oct. 1879.]

IMHAEUSER v. BUExRK

the patent of the complainant, or ever invaded any of his
rights, as alleged in the bill of complaint.
Proofs were taken, the parties heaid, and the Circuit Court
having overruled both defences, sent the cause to a master to
ascertain what amount the complainant was entitled to recover.
Hearing was had before the master, and he made a report, as
required by the decretal order. Exceptions were filed by the
respondents, who were again heard before the Circuit Court in
support of their motion to set aside the master's report. Modifications of an important character were made by the Circuit
Court in the r~port of the master, both in respect to the amount
adjudged to the complainant and in respect to the portions to
be paid by the respective respondents, the decree being that
the complainant do recover of the three respondents the sum
of $1,961; and also against the first two in the sum of
$3,748.28, with interest and costs, as therein specified.
Seasonable appeal was taken by the first-named respondenti
and since the appeal was entered here he has filed the following
assignment of errors: 1. That the Circuit Court erred in holding
that the patent of the complainant is good and valid. 2. That
the Circuit Court erred in holding that the respondents have
infringed the claims of the complainant's patent.
Patented time detectors for watchmen were known in the
art prior to the date of the patent described in the bill of complaint, and it appears that the complainant, at a certain period
anterior to that date, became the oivner of such a patent, and
that he surrendered the same, and that it was reissued in his
name for the then unexpired portion of the term. Certain
alterations were made in the specification of the reissue, and,
as there described, the invention provided a watch for the
watchman, which he carried with him in his rounds, so constructed that, by the insertion of a key kept at each of the
stations he was required to visit, he could make a record within
the watch indicating the several stations visited, with the precise time of each visit, and the order in which the respective
visits were made. Each watch was provided with a lock, so
that the watchman had no access to its interior, and as the
record of each station could only be made by the peculiar key
that belonged to such station, which was there made fast, the
VOL. XX.

42

IMHAEUSER V. BUERK.

-[Sup.QC.

watchman could not deceive his employers by making a false
record.
: All these'several functions were effected by using a watch or
small portable clock movement enclosed in a strong case, the
lid of which could be locked and the key kept by the employer.
Like a watch it had an arbor upon which the hour-band was
placed, and a drum was attached so as to revolve as the hourhand revolved, the purpose of which was to carry the roll of
paper to. receive the marks indicating the time of each visit.
By marks on the paper it was divided into spaces corresponding
in their position, relatively as respects the centreof the watch,
to the hours and minutes of the watch dial, and by lines drawn
lengthwise it was also divided into spaces corresponding in
number to the number of markers to be used in effecting the
patented result.
Exterior to the watch-movement, but within the case, there
were placed small steel bars or springs, terminating each in a
point bent at right angles, while the other end was fixed firmly
to the circular plate or frame of the watch-movement. These
springs were placed and held in a gang, one above another, so
that the points were in a row perpendicular to the watch face,
at and exterior to the point on the dial of the watch indicating
the hour of twelve, and each point was directly opposite one
of the longitudinal spaces in the strip of paper around the circumference of the drum.
What the inventor desired to accomplish was to show the
exact time of each visit of the watchman, and it is obvious that
if the point of one of the springs is pressed inward upon the
revolving drum it will perforate the paper within its proper
longitudinal division, and that the perforation will show the
hour and minute at which it was made; and in order to permit
such perforation without injuring the steel point the periphery
of the drum was channelled by narrow longitudinal grooves
beneath each of the spaces in the paper placed around the
drum to receive the marks. Keys were also provided varying
from each other in the location and width of the bit and in the
number of the bits, so that when one was inserted in the keyhole contiguous to the steel spring, and turned, it would press
one of the springs inward upon the paper and make the required

Oct. 1879.1

ITMHAEUSER v. BuERK.

perforation, while another would press two springs and make
two perforations, another three, and so on, as more fully set
forth in the specification. Buerk v. Falentine, 9 Blatchf. 479.
Since the term of that patent expired, the complainant has
obtained a patent for the invention in controversy in this case,
which, as he admits, is for the same purpose as the other, but
which he insists is a valuable improvement in accomplishing
the purpose for which both inventions were made. In its main
features the new improvement consists in dispensing with the
drum entirely and the paper wound around its circumference.
Instead of that it attaches a circular disk to the arbor of the
hour-hand to revolve therewith, and attaches thereto a circular
flat paper dial of larger diameter divided by vertical lines, corresponding with the hours and minutes of a watch dial, and
having a portion of its exterior divided into spaces by circular
lines drawn at uniform distances, and corresponding to the
location of certain steel points as the paper disk is revolved.
Beneath the circular plate forming the support or frame of the
watch-movement the gang of steel bars or springs is firmly
attached to the plate in such position that the points are in a
straight line radial to the centre, and over each point is a hole
in the plate so that each can be pushed upward, the point
thereof passing through the hole sufficiently to perforate the
paper dial in the space corresponding to the point of the spring.
Over the row of holes is placed a small strip of metal, called a
fixed index, which is fastened to the circular plate or frame of
the watch, and extends towards the centre of the disk, and is
raised sufficiently above the revolving disk to permit the paper
dial to revolve freely under it and over the holes through whichthe spring-points are to rise, and to prevent injury to these
points holes are made in its under surface opposite each point,
into which the points as they rise may enter, and then by the
power of the spring be withdrawn to their respective positions
below the plate. Devices, called keys, of a like character to
those used in the prior invention, are provided, to be inserted
in a key-hole so located that the bit of the keys when turned
iwill force the springs upwards instead of inwards, as in the
other apparatus previously explained. Perforations are made
by the combination in the .exterior portion of the revolving

"660

,IMHAEU

rt v. BUERpr.

I[Sup.at

.paper dial, which indicate the precise hour and minute when it
.was made, and the particular key that was employed, with all
the variations accomplished by the devices described in the
.specification of the prior patent.
I Attempt is made in argument to support the first assignment
:of error chiefly by reference to three exhibits introduced in
evidence by the, respondents, which were known and used by
the public prior to the date of the patent described in the bill
,of complaint. They are the patent of Schwilgue, the patent
of Rowbotham, and the patent of Nolet.
Before entering upon a separate examination of these several
patents, it is proper to remark that it is not pretended that any
-one of them embodies the entire invention secured to the com,plainant in his letters-patent. Nothing of the kind is pretended,
but it is insisted that each contains some feature, device, or
-partial mode of operation corresponding in that particular to
the corresponding feature, device, or partial mode of operation
exhibited in the complainant's patent.
Suppose that is so, still it is clear that such a concession cannot benefit the respondent, it being conceded that neither of
the exhibits given in evidence embodies the complainant's
,invention or the substance of the apparatus described and
claimed in his specification. Where the thing patented is an
entirety, consisting of a single device or combination of old
elements incapable of division or separate use, the respondent
cannot escape the charge of infringement by alleging or provihg that a part of the entire invention is found in one prior
-patent, printed publication, or machine, and another part in
another prior exhibit, and still another part in a third exhibit,
and from the three or any greater number of such exhibits
draw the conclusion that the patentee is not the original and
first inventor of the patented improvement. Bates v. Coe,
98 U. S. 31, 48.
Authority is given to a defendant in an action at law or to a
respondent in an equity suit to plead or set up in the answer
t hat the patentee is not the original or first inventor of the
improvement; but if the plaintiff or complainant introduces his
patent in evidence, the burden is cast upon the defending party
,to prove his defence, which he may do by showing that the

Oct. 1879.]

IHAEUSER

v.

BUERK.

thing patented had been invented or discovered by some other
person in this country prior to the alleged invention in the
pending suit, or that it had been patented or described in some
printed publication in this or any foreign country. Rev. Stat.,
sect. 4920.
Apply that rule to the facts of the case, and it is clear to a
demonstration that neither of the exhibits given in evidence by
the respondents constitutes any defence to the charge contained
in the bill of complaint. Curtis, Patents (4th ed.), sect. 98.
Similarities may doubtless be shown between certain features
of the apparatus invented by Schwilgue and the apparatus pat.
ented to the complainant, as contended by the respondents;
but they utterly fail to point out the differences, except in one
or two particulars. They differ not only in construction, but
in the mode of operation, and in almost every particular which
gives value to the device as a time detector for watchmen, the
foreign patent being much more cumbrous and inconvenient
than that of the complainant. Stationary detectors were
employed at an early period to secure fidelity in watchmen in
making the rounds of their beat in factories or other business
establishments. Detectors of the kind were soon followed by
portable watch-movements which were carried by the watchman, on which he stamped with ink or other coloring matter
the proof of his visit to the several rooms within his beat.
Enough appears to show that the patent of Rowbotham was
nothing more than an improved apparatus of that class, being
evidently so unlike that of the complainant as not to deserve
much examination.
Nor is it necessary to enter much into detail in disposing of
the other exhibit introduced by the respondents, as it evidently
belongs to the same class of detectors as the preceding, and
bears little or no relation to the apparatus of the complainant.
Argument to show that the present apparatus of the complainant is substantially different from that described in the
expired patent cannot be required, as the comparison already
given is amply sufficient to prove that difference to every one
not blinded by self-interest or prejudice. Tested by these considerations, it is plain that nothing remains for re-examination
but the question of infringement.

662

IMHAEUSER v. BUEK.

[Sup. CL

Persons seeking redress for the unlawful use of their inventions must allege and prove that they or those under whom
they claim are the original and first inventors of the improvement, and that the patent for the same has been infringed by
the party against whom the suit is brought. Where the patent
in suit is introduced in evidence it affords a prima facie presumption that the invention is new and useful; but the burden
to prove infringement never shifts if the charge is denied in
the plea or answer. Sufficient proof of infringement may be
derived from the comparison of that which is used by the
defending party with the description of the invention given in
the specification of the patent which constitutes the foundation
of the suit, and where the invention is embodied in a machine
or apparatus, that mode of conducting the examination is usually the most satisfactory. Sufficient explanations of the complainant's patent have already been given, which need not be
repeated.
None, it is presumed, will deny that the time detector sold
by the respondents is in appearance and general construction
similar to that described in the specification of the complainant.
Beyond all doubt, the respondents employ a watch-movement
with a series of keys and a single -hole, together with a revolving dial fastened to the watch arbor. Like the complainant
they dispense with the hour and minute hands of the watch,
and attach the false or paper revolving dial to the arbor of the
apparatus. Their stationary index is exactly the same as that
of the complainant, and they also employ a series of markers
arranged radially to the centre of the dial; but the markers are
unyielding, while the index is so constructed as to enable the
markers to perform the same function as those employed in the
complainant's apparatus. They arrange their markers under
the false dial, and place the yielding index over the back of
the false dial, so that the marks are made from the inside
instead of from the outside.
Expert testimony was taken ' by the complainant, and his
witness testified that the apparatus of the respondents is substantially the same in construction and mode of operation as
that described in the complainant's specification, and gave his
reasons for the conclusion in substance and effect as follows:

Oct. 1879.]

IMHAEUSER

v. BUERir.

That the arrangement of the markers is in a line radiating from'
the centre, the markers being made stationary, so that instead
of pressing against the keys while the index supports the paper,
the keys, supported by the stationary index, press the paper
against the markers; the faces of the markers, instead of being
simple points, form what is called small figures, and the divisions of the paper dial, by concentric circles, is omitted, it
appearing that the different figures are made to indicate the
different stations, but the arrangement of the gang of markers
is preserved. It is denied by the respondents that the index
in their apparatus yields; but the witness testifies that, by taking
a sight over the edge of the case parallel to the dial when the
watch is open, the stationary index is seen to yield, and, acts as
a spring. Taken as a whole, he regards the marking device as
substantially similar to that employed by the complainant.
Unless there is some yielding, either of the markers or the
index, it is not easy to see how the key could be turned without
tearing the paper or breaking the key, from which it must follow, as contended by the complainant, that the respondents,
have substituted for his series of yielding spring-points and
index a series of permanent or unyielding markers and a yielding index, retaining the other necessary elements of a false dial.
-which shall receive the impressions by the use of the described
keys.
Differences between the two arrangements undoubtedly exist,
as is usually the case where one is borrowed from the other
without consent. Most or all of those differences are well
described by the circuit judge in the case to which reference
has already been made. Speaking of the infringing apparatus,
he says that the gang of steel springs, instead of being placed
beneath the circular plate or frame of the watch-movement, is
attached to the lid of the case of the instrument, immediately
over the location of the gang of springs in the complainant's
detector. When closed, the line or row of points is in the same
straight line radially from the centre, and in order to perforate
the paper dial they must be pressed downward instead of
upward. To that end the key-hole is placed in tle side of the
lid over the gang of springs instead of being placed in the body
of the case below the springs. Instead of the fixed index placed

TABLE OF CASES.
Pago

Ellsworth, United States v ....
Empire v. Darlington .....
Essex Company, Durant v....
.Ex parte Railway Company ....
Finn, Babbitt v ........
Fleitas v. Cockrem.. .....
Flint, Hollingsworth v.....
"Florida," The ......
Foote v. County of Pike .....
Frisbie, Marquez v ......

.............
..............
.............
............
.................
...............
..............
................
.............
................

... 170
87
.
555
..
.711
7
... 301
.591
37
.
.688
473
...

.............
Gaillard, South Carolina v ....
............
Gas Company v. Pittsburgh .....
................
Gates v. Goodloe ......
................
Gay v. Parpart ......
................
Gegan, Duncan v......
................
Gibboney, Kain v ......
................
Gilbert, Phillips v.......
...............
Goddard v. Ordway .....
................
Goodloe, Gates v ......
.............
Goodrich, Greenleaf v.......
..............
Greenleaf v. Goodrich ......
..............
Grove, Bible Society v. ....
Guaranty and Indemnity Company, Jones v .........
...............
Gunton v. Carroll .......

433
.. 219
.612
.391
.810
.362
.721
...
745
.612
.278
.. 278
.610
622
..
426

.............
Hall, National Bank v ......
.................
Hall v. Russell ......
.........
Hamilton, County of, Litchfield v .....
...............
Harris, Phelps v .......
................
Hatch v. Dana ......
..............
Hickling v. Sherman .....
............
Hoffinan, Market Company v ....
..............
Hollingsworth v. Flint .....
................
Hornby, Meyer v......
...........
Howard v. Railway Company ...
........
Hubbard, Steam-Engine Company v....
...............
Humphrey, Baker v .....

43
..
...
503
.. 781
.370
.205
.403
.. 112
.591
.728
.837
.188
494
...

Imhaeuser v. Buerk .....
Insurance Company, Moulor v ....

...............
............

..

...
647
.708

