OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW, CALIFORNIA LABOR
COMMISSIONER
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 92-1920.

Argued April 26, 1994-Decided June 13, 1994

California law requires employers to pay all wages due immediately upon
an employee's discharge, Labor Code §201; imposes a penalty for refusal
to pay promptly, §203; and places responsibility for enforcing these provisions on the Commissioner of Labor. After petitioner Livadas's employer refused to pay her the wages owed upon her discharge, but paid
them a few days later, she filed a penalty claim. The Commissioner
replied with a form letter construing Labor Code §229 as barring him
from enforcing such claims on behalf of individuals like Livadas, whose
employment terms and conditions are governed by a collectivebargaining agreement containing an arbitration clause. Livadas
brought this action under 42 U. S. C. § 1983, alleging that the nonenforcement policy was pre-empted by federal law because it abridged
her rights under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA). The District Court granted her summary judgment, rejecting the Commissioner's defense that the claim was pre-empted by §301 of the Labor-

Management Relations Act, 1947 (LMRA). Although acknowledging
that the NLRA gives Livadas a right to bargain collectively and that
§1983 would supply a remedy for official deprivation of that right, the
Court of Appeals reversed, concluding that no federal right had been
infringed because Livadas's case reduced to an assertion that the Commissioner had misinterpreted state law, namely §229.
Held:
1. The Commissioner's policy is pre-empted by federal law.
Pp. 116-132.
(a) This case is fundamentally no different from Nash v. Florida
Industrial Comm'n, 389 U. S. 235, 239, in which the Court held that a
state rule predicating benefits on refraining from conduct protected by
federal labor law was pre-empted because it interfered with congressional purpose. The Commissioner's policy, which requires Livadas to
choose between Labor Code and NLRA rights, cannot be reconciled
with a federal statutory scheme premised on the centrality of collective
bargaining and the desirability of arbitration. Pp. 116-118.
(b) The Commissioner's answers to the foregoing conclusion flow
from two significant misunderstandings of law. First, the assertion
that the nonenforcement policy must be valid because §229 is consistent

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Syllabus
with federal law is premised on irrelevant relationships and leads to the
wrong question: Pre-emption analysis turns on the policy's actual content and its real effect on federal rights, not on whether §229 is valid
under the Federal Constitution or whether the policy is, as a matter of
state law, a proper interpretation of §229. Second, the argument that
a "rational basis" supports the distinction the policy draws between employees represented by unions and those who are not mistakes a validity
standard under the Equal Protection and Due Process Clauses for what
the Supremacy Clause requires: a determination whether the state rule
conflicts with the federal law. Pp. 118-121.
(c) This Court's decisions according pre-emptive effect to LMRA
§301 foreclose even a colorable argument that a claim under Labor Code
§203 was pre-empted here, since they establish that the section does
not broadly pre-empt nonnegotiable employee rights conferred by state
law; that it is a claim's legal character, as independent of rights under
the collective-bargaining agreement, that decides whether a state cause
of action may go forward; and that when liability is governed by independent state law and the meaning of contract terms is not in dispute,
the bare fact that a collective-bargaining agreement is consulted for
damage computation is no reason to extinguish the state-law claim.
See, e. g., Allis-Chalmers Corp. v. Lueck, 471 U. S. 202, and Lingle v.
Norge Div. of Magic Chef, Inc., 486 U. S. 899. Here, the primary text
for deciding whether Livadas was entitled to a penalty was not the
collective-bargaining agreement, but a calendar. The only issue raised
by her claim, whether her employer willfully failed to pay her wages
promptly upon severance, was a question of state law entirely independent of the agreement. Absent any indication that there was a dispute
over the penalty amount, the simple need to refer to bargained-for wage

rates in computing the penalty is irrelevant. Pp. 121-125.
(d) The Commissioner's attempt before this Court to recast the
nonenforcement policy as expressing a "conscious decision" to keep the
State's "hands off" the claims of employees protected by collectivebargaining agreements, either because the Commissioner's efforts and
resources are more urgently needed by others or because official restraint will actually encourage the collective-bargaining and arbitral
processes favored by federal law, is rejected. If the policy were in fact
animated by the first of these late-blooming rationales, the Commissioner's emphasis on the need to avoid "interpret[ing]" or "apply[ing]"
collective-bargaining agreements would be entirely misplaced. Nor is
the second asserted rationale convincing, since enforcement under the
policy does not turn on the bargain struck by the contracting parties or
on whether the contractual wage rate is even arbitrable, but simply on
the fact that the parties have consented to arbitration. The suggestion
that the policy is meant to stimulate freewheeling bargaining over

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)

Syllabus
wage payments to discharged workers contradicts Labor Code § 219,
which expressly and categorically prohibits the modification of rules
under the Code by "private agreement." Even at face value, however,
the "hands off" label poses special dangers that advantages conferred
by federal law will be canceled out and its objectives undermined, and
those dangers are not laid to rest by professions of the need for governmental neutrality in labor disputes. Similarly, the vague assertions
that the policy advances federal interests are not persuasive, since this
Court has never suggested that the federal bias toward bargaining is to
be served by forcing employees and employers to bargain for what they
would otherwise be entitled to under state law. Fort Halifax Packing
Co. v. Coyne, 482 U. S. 1, and the federal and state "opt-out" laws cited
by the Commissioner, distinguished. Pp. 126-132.
2. Livadas is entitled to seek relief under § 1983 for the Commissioner's abridgment of her NLRA right to complete the collectivebargaining process and agree to an arbitration clause. That right is at
least immanent in the NLRA's structure, if it is not provided in so many
words by the statutory text, and the obligation to respect it on the part
of those acting under color of law is not vague or amorphous. Moreover, Congress has given no indication of any intent to foreclose actions
like Livadas's, and there is no cause for special caution here. See
Golden State Transit Corp. v. Los Angeles, 493 U. S. 103, 108-112.
Pp. 132-135.
987 F. 2d 552, reversed.
SOUTER,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Richard G. McCracken argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs was Michael T Anderson.
Malcolm L. Stewart argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on the
brief were Solicitor General Days, Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, Amy L. Wax, Linda Sher, and Norton J. Come.
H. Thomas Cadell, Jr., argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondent.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Allied Educational Foundation by BertramR. Gelfand and Jeffrey C. Dannenberg;and
for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations by Mark Schneider, Marsha S. Berzon, Laurence Gold, and
Walter Kamiat.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Chamber
of Commerce of the United States et al. by Marshall B. Babson, Stanley

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

JUSTICE SOUTER delivered the opinion of the Court.
California law requires employers to pay all wages due
immediately upon an employee's discharge, imposes a penalty for refusal to pay promptly, precludes any private contractual waiver of these minimum labor standards, and
places responsibility for enforcing these provisions on the
State Commissioner of Labor (Commissioner or Labor Commissioner), ostensibly for the benefit of all employees. Respondent, the Labor Commissioner,' has construed a further
provision of state law as barring enforcement of these wage
and penalty claims on behalf of individuals like petitioner,
whose terms and conditions of employment are governed by
a collective-bargaining agreement containing an arbitration
clause. We hold that federal law pre-empts this policy, as
abridging the exercise of such employees' rights under the
National Labor Relations Act (NLRA or Act), 29 U. S. C.
§151 et seq., and that redress for this unlawful refusal to
enforce may be had under 42 U. S. C. § 1983.
I
Until her discharge on January 2, 1990, petitioner Karen
Livadas worked as a grocery clerk in a Vallejo, California,
Safeway supermarket. The terms and conditions of her employment were subject to a collective-bargaining agreement
between Safeway and Livadas's union, Local 373 of the
United Food and Commercial Workers, AFL-CIO. Unexceptionally, the agreement provided that "[d]isputes as to the
interpretation or application of the agreement," including
grievances arising from allegedly unjust discharge or suspension, would be subject to binding arbitration. See Food
R. Strauss, Stephen A Bokat, Mona C. Zeiberg, Jan Amundson, and

Quentin Riegel; and for the Employers Group et al. by Steven G. Drapkin.
IRespondent Bradshaw has succeeded Lloyd Aubry, the original named

defendant in this action, as Labor Commissioner and has been substituted
as a party before this Court. See this Court's Rule 35.3.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Store Contract, United Food & Commercial Workers Union,
Local 373, AFL-CIO, Solano and Napa Counties §§ 18.2, 18.3
(Mar. 1, 1989-Feb. 29, 1992) (Food Store Contract). When
notified of her discharge, Livadas demanded immediate payment of wages owed her, as guaranteed to all California
workers by state law, see Cal. Lab. Code Ann. § 201 (West

1989),3 but her store manager refused, referring to the company practice of making such payments by check mailed from
a central corporate payroll office. On January 5, 1990, Livadas received a check from Safeway, in the full amount owed
for her work through January 2.
On January 9, 1990, Livadas filed a claim against Safeway
with the California Division of Labor Standards Enforcement (DLSE or Division), asserting that under §203 of the
Labor Code the company was liable to her for a sum equal
to three days' wages, as a penalty for the delay between
discharge and the date when payment was in fact re2

Section 18.1 of the collective-bargaining agreement defines a "grievance" as a "dispute ... involving or arising out of the meaning, interpretation, application or alleged violation" of the agreement.
Section 18.8 provides that "[iln the case of a direct wage claim ...
which does not involve an interpretation of any of the provisions of this
Agreement, either party may submit such claim for settlement to either
the grievance procedure provided for herein or to any other tribunal or
agency which is authorized and empowered to effect such a settlement."
8California Labor Code § 201 provides in pertinent part: "If an employer
discharges an employee, the wages earned and unpaid at the time of discharge are due and payable immediately." It draws no distinction between union-represented employees and others.
Under another provision of California law, Labor Code §219, the protections of § 201 (and of other rules governing the frequency and form of
wage payments) "can [not] in any way be contravened or set aside by
private agreement, whether written, oral, or implied," although employers
are free to pay wages more frequently, in greater amounts, or at an earlier
date than ordained by these state rules; cE §204.2 (executive, administrative, and professional employees may negotiate through collective bargaining for pay periods different from those required by state law).

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

ceived. 4 Livadas requested the Commissioner to enforce
the claim.5
By an apparently standard form letter dated February 7,
1990, the Division notified Livadas that it would take no
action on her complaint:
"It is our understanding that the employees working for Safeway are covered by a collective bargaining
agreement which contains an arbitration clause. The
provisions of Labor Code Section 229 preclude this Division from adjudicating any dispute eoneerning tho interpretation or application of any collective bargaining
agreement containing an arbitration clause.
"Labor Code Section 203 requires that the wages continue at the 'same rate' until paid. In order to establish
what the 'same rate' was, it is necessary to look to the
4That section provides that when an employer "willfully fails" to comply

with the strictures of §201 and fails to pay "any wages" owed discharged
employees, "the wages of such employees shall continue as a penalty from
the due date thereof at the same rate until paid or until an action therefor
is commenced; but such wages shall not continue for more than 30 days."
Cal. Lab. Code Ann. §203 (West 1989).
In her DLSE claim form, Livadas made plain that she did iot dispute
Safeway's calculation of the wages owed, but sought only the penalty for
the employer's late tender. App. 18.
r Under state law, the Commissioner of Labor is the Division Chief of
the DLSE, see Cal. Lab. Code Ann. §§ 79, 82(b) (West 1989), and is authorized either directly to prosecute a wage or penalty claim on an employee's
behalf in state court, §98.3(a), or, in the alternative, to initiate informal
hearings under DLSE auspices, see § 98(a), in which full relief may be
awarded, §98.1. The Commissioner's policy with respect to claims by employees covered by collective-bargaining agreements appears not to distinguish between these two modes of proceeding, and, accordingly, we will
refer, as the parties largely do, to her policy as a categorical refusal to
"enforce" such claims. Although Labor Code §218 states that "[n]othing
in this article shall limit the right of any wage claimant to sue ... for any
wages or penalty due him," another provision, §218.5, authorizes attorney's fee awards to prevailing parties in wage and penalty disputes, making individual litigation a somewhat risky prospect, and DLSE enforcement remains in any event the more realistic avenue for modest claims.

Cite as; 612 U.S. 107 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

collective bargaining agreement and 'apply' that agreement. The courts have pointed out that such an application is exactly what the provisions of Labor Code §229
prohibit."' 6 App. 16.

The letter made no reference to any particular aspect of
Livadas's claim making it unfit for enforcement, and the
Commissioner's position is fairly taken to be that DLSE enforcement of § 203 claims, as well as other claims for which
relief is pegged to an employee's wage rate, is generally
unavailable to employees covered by collective-bargaining
agreements.
Livadas brought this action in the United States District
Court under Rev. Stat. § 1979, 42 U. S. C. § 1983, alleging that
the nonenforcement policy, reflecting the Commissioner's
reading of Labor Code § 229, was pre-empted as conflicting
with Livadas's rights under § 7 of the NLRA, 49 Stat. 452,
as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 157, because the policy placed a
6

Labor Code §229 provides: "Actions to enforce the provisions of this
article [Labor Code §§ 200-243] for the collection of due and unpaid wages
claimed by an individual may be maintained without regard to the existence of any private agreement to arbitrate. This section shall not apply
to claims involving any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of any collective bargaining agreement containing such an arbitration agreement." Cf. Perry v. Thomas, 482 U. S. 483 (1987) (§229 bar to
waiver defeated by Federal Arbitration Act policy).
All concerned identify the allusion to what "courts" have said to be a
reference to a 1975 decision of the California Court of Appeal, Plumbing,
Heating and Piping Employers Council v. Howard, 53 Cal. App. 3d 828,
126 Cal. Rptr. 406, where the Commissioner was held barred by the statute from enforcing an "unpaid" wage claim arising from an employee's
assertion that he was entitled, under collective-bargaining agreements
then in force, to receive a foreman's rate of pay and not a journeyman's.
'The Commissioner notes that a small minority of collective-bargaining
agreements lack provisions either setting wage rates or mandating arbitration (and therefore might potentially be enforced under the challenged
policy). But see n. 13, infra; Lingle v. Norge Div. of Magic Chef, Inc.,
486 U. S. 399, 411, n. 11 (1988) (noting that 99% of sampled collectivebargaining agreements include arbitration clauses).

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

penalty on the exercise of her statutory right to bargain collectively with her employer. She stressed that there was
no dispute about the amount owed and that neither she nor
Safeway had begun any grievance proceeding over the penalty. Livadas sought a declaration that the Commissioner's
interpretation of §229 was pre-empted, an injunction against
adherence to the allegedly impermissible policy, and an order
requiring the Commissioner either to process her penalty
claim or (if it would be time barred under state law) pay
her damages in the amount the Commissioner would have
obtained if the Commissioner had moved against the employer in time.
The District Court granted summary judgment for Livadas, holding the labor pre-emption claim cognizable under
§ 1983, see Golden State Transit Corp. v. Los Angeles, 493
U. S. 103 (1989) (Golden State II), and the Commissioner's
policy pre-empted as interfering with her § 7 right, see, e. g.,
Golden State Transit Corp. v. Los Angeles, 475 U. S. 608
(1986) (Golden State I), by denying her the benefit of a minimum labor standard, namely, the right to timely payment of
final wages secured by Labor Code §§201 and 203. 749
F. Supp. 1526 (ND Cal. 1990). The District Court treated
as irrelevant the Commissioner's assertion that the policy
was consistent with state law (e. g., Labor Code §229) and
rejected the defense that it was required by federal law,
namely, § 301 of the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947
(LMRA), 61 Stat. 156, 29 U. S. C. § 185(a), which has been
read to pre-empt state-court resolution of disputes turning
on the rights of parties under collective-bargaining agree8 Livadas

did file a grievance claiming that the discharge had been improper under the collective-bargaining agreement, ultimately obtaining
reinstatement with backpay. While the parties dispute what effect, as a
matter of state law, that recovery would have on Livadas's right under
§ 203, neither the pertinent California statutes nor the Commissioner's
policy at issue here depend on whether a claimant's termination was for
just cause.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

ments. The District Court explained that resolution of the
claim under § 203 "requires reference only to a calendar, not
to the [collective-bargaining agreement]," 749 F. Supp.,
at 1536, and granted petitioner all requested relief. Id., at
1540. 9

A divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. 987 F. 2d 552 (1993). The court acknowledged that federal law gives Livadas a right to engage in
collective bargaining and that § 1983 would supply a remedy
for official deprivation of that right, but the panel majority
concluded that no federal right had been infringed. The
court reasoned that the policy was based on the Commissioner's reading of Labor Code § 229, whose function of keeping
state tribunals from adjudicating claims in a way that would
interfere with the operation of federal labor policy is, by
definition, consistent with the dictates of federal law. Noting that Livadas did not assert pre-emption of § 229 itself or
object to the California courts' interpretation of it, the majority concluded that her case reduced to an assertion that
the Commissioner had misinterpreted state law, an error for
which relief could be obtained in California courts.
Livadas could not claim to be "penalized," the Appeals
panel then observed, for she stood "in the same position as
every other employee in the state when it comes to seeking
the Commissioner's enforcement.

Every employee . . . is

subject to an eligibility determination, and every employee
• ..is subject to the risk that the Commissioner will get
it wrong." 987 F. 2d, at 559. The Ninth Circuit majority
concluded by invoking the "general policies of federal labor
law" strongly favoring the arbitration of disputes and reasoning that, "Congress would not want state officials erring
9Inthe Court of Appeals, Livadas acknowledged that the portion of the
District Court's order awarding monetary relief against the Commissioner
in her official capacity was likely barred by the Eleventh Amendment, see
Brief for Petitioner 43, n. 20. This and other issues arising from the scope
of the remedy are better left for the courts below on remand.

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

on the side of adjudicating state law disputes whenever it is
a close call as to whether a claim is preempted." Id., at
560.10 We granted certiorari, 510 U. S. 1083 (1994), to address the important questions of federal labor law implicated
by the Commissioner's policy, and we now reverse.
II
A
A state rule predicating benefits on refraining from conduct protected by federal labor law poses special dangers of
interference with congressional purpose. In Nash v. Florida Industrial Comm'n, 389 U. S. 235 (1967), a unanimous
Court held that a state policy of withholding unemployment
benefits solely because an employee had filed an unfair labor
practice charge with the National Labor Relations Board
had a "direct tendency to frustrate the purpose of Congress"
and, if not pre-empted, would "defeat or handicap a valid
national objective by ... withdraw[ing] state benefits ...

simply because" an employee engages in conduct protected
10Indissent,

Judge Kozinski countered that by focusing on whether Livadas was entitled to a correct application of state law, the majority had
explored the wrong question. The proper enquiry, the dissent maintained, was not whether the Commissioner has discretion under state law
not to enforce wage and penalty claims (which she plainly does) or whether
she need enforce claims if doing so would actually be pre-empted by
federal law (she plainly need not), but whether she may draw the line
for enforcement purposes between individuals covered by collectivebargaining agreements containing arbitration clauses (whose claims will
sometimes but not always be pre-empted under §301) and those not so
covered. Underscoring that Livadas's claim would not, in fact, have been
pre-empted had the federal rule been given its proper scope, the dissent
found wanting the majority's "quasi-pre-emption" rationale, 987 F. 2d, at
562. Judge Kozinski concluded that the Commissioner's policy, based on
an "honest (though flagrant) mistake of law," id., at 563, could not be
squared with the requirements of federal labor law, because the burdened
class was defined by the exercise of federal rights and because the burden
on collective-bargaining rights, justified only by a mistaken understanding
of what §301 requires, served no "legitimate state purpose" at all. Ibid.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

and encouraged by the NLRA. Id., at 239; see also Golden
State I, supra, at 618 (city may not condition franchise renewal on settlement of labor dispute). This case is fundamentally no different from Nash." Just as the respondent
state commission in that case offered an employee the choice
of pursuing her unfair labor practice claim or receiving unemployment compensation, the Commissioner has presented
Livadas and others like her with the choice of having statelaw rights under §§201 and 203 enforced or exercising the
right to enter into a collective-bargaining agreement with an
arbitration clause. This unappetizing choice, we conclude,
was not intended by Congress, see infra, at 130, and cannot
ultimately be reconciled with a statutory scheme premised
on the centrality of the right to bargain collectively and the
desirability of resolving contract disputes through arbitra"While the NLRA does not expressly recognize a right to be covered
by a collective-bargaining agreement, in that no duty is imposed on an
employer actually to readh agreement with represented employees, see 29
U. S. C. § 158(d), a State's penalty on those who complete the collectivebargaining process works an interference with the operation of the Act,
much as does a penalty on those who participate in the process. Cf. Hill
v. Florida ex rel. Watson, 325 U. S. 538 (1945) (State may not enforce
licensing requirement on collective-bargaining agents).
We understand the difference between the position of petitioner (who
would place this case within our "Machinists" line of labor pre-emption
cases, see Machinists v. Wisconsin Employment Relations Comm'n, 427
U. S. 132 (1976)) and that of her amicus, the Solicitor General (who describes it as a case of "conflict" pre-emption, see Brief for United States
as Amicus Curiae 14-15, and n. 4) to be entirely semantic, depending on
whether Livadas's right is characterized as implicit in the structure of the
Act (as was the right to self-help upheld in Machinists)or as rooted in the
text of § 7. See generally Golden State II, 493 U. S. 103, 110-112 (1989)
(emphasizing fundamental similarity between enumerated NLRA rights
and "Machinists" rights). Neither party here argues for application of
the rule of San Diego Building Trades Council v. Garmon, 359 U. S. 236
(1959), which safeguards the primary jurisdiction of the National Labor
Relations Board to pass judgment on certain conduct, such as labor picketing, which might be held protected by §7 of the Act but which might also
be prohibited by §8 of the Act.

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

tion. Cf. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts, 471
U. S. 724, 755 (1985) (state law held not pre-empted because
it "neither encourage[s] nor discourage[s] the collectivebargaining processes").12
B

1
The Commissioner's answers to this pre-emption conclusion flow from two significant misunderstandings of law.
First, the Commissioner conflates the policy that Livadas
challenges with the state law on which it purports to rest,
Labor Code § 229, assuming that if the statutory provision
is consistent with federal law, her policy must be also. But
12

Despite certain similarities, the question whether federal labor law
permits a State to grant or withhold unemployment insurance benefits
from striking workers requires consideration of the policies underlying a
distinct federal statute, Title IX of the Social Security Act, see 26 U. S. C.
§ 3301 (1988 ed. and Supp. IV); 42 U. S. C. §501 et seq.; 42 U. S. C. § 1101
et seq. Thus, straightforward NLRA pre-emption analysis has been held
inappropriate. See New York Telephone Co. v. New York State Dept. of
Labor, 440 U. S. 519, 536-540 (1979) (plurality opinion); see also id., at 549
(BLACKMUN, J., concurring in judgment).
Noting that Nash v. Florida IndustrialComm'n, 389 U. S. 235 (1967),
held state action pre-empted that was "like the coercive actions which
employers and unions are forbidden to engage in," see id., at 239, it is
argued here, see Brief for Employers Group as Amicus Curiae 7-12, that
the NLRA prohibits only state action closely analogous to conduct that
would support an unfair labor practice charge if engaged in by a private
employer. Our cases, however, teach that parallelism is not dispositive
and that the Act sometimes demands a more scrupulous evenhandedness
from the States. See generally Wisconsin Dept. of Industry v. Gould,
Inc., 475 U. S. 282, 290 (1986) (State may not debar employers with multiple NLRA violations from government contracting); compare Golden
State I, 475 U. S. 608 (1986), with NLRB v. Servette, Inc., 377 U. S. 46,
49-54 (1964) (private actor may refuse to deal with employer based on
impending strike); but cf. Building & Constr. Trades Council v. Associated Builders & Contractors of Mass.IR. L, Inc., 507 U.S. 218, 227228 (1993) (the Act does not always preclude a State, functioning as an
employer or a purchaser of labor services, from behaving as a private

employer would be entitled to do).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

on this logic, a policy of issuing general search warrants
would be justified if it were adopted to implement a state
statute codifying word-for-word the "good-faith" exception
to the valid warrant requirement recognized in United
States v. Leon, 468 U. S. 897 (1984). The relationship between policy and state statute and between the statute and
federal law is, in any event, irrelevant. The question presented by this case is not whether Labor Code §229 is valid
under the Federal Constitution or whether the Commissioner's policy is, as a matter of state law, a proper interpretation of §229. Pre-emption analysis, rather, turns on the actual content of respondent's policy and its real effect on federal rights. See Nash v. Florida Industrial Comm'n, 389
U. S. 235 (1967) (holding pre-empted an administrative policy
interpreting presumably valid state unemployment insurance law exception for "labor disputes" to include proceedings under NLRB complaints); see also 987 F. 2d, at 561
13
(Kozinski, J., dissenting).
Having sought to lead us to the wrong question, the Commissioner proposes the wrong approach for answering it, defending the distinction drawn in the challenged statutory interpretation, between employees represented by unions and
those who are not, as supported by a "rational basis," see,
IsSee also Rum Creek Coal Salem, Inc. v. Caperton, 971 F. 2d 1148,

1154 (CA4 1992) (State may not, consistently with the NLRA, withhold
protections of state antitrespass law from employer involved in labor dispute, in an effort to apply a facially valid "neutrality statute"). Thus,
while the "misinterpretation of a perfectly valid state statute... does not
[in itself] provide grounds for federal relief," 987 F. 2d, at 559, it does not
follow that no federal relief may be had when such misinterpretation results in conflict with federal law. Nor does the opportunity to seek redress in a nonfederal forum determine the existence of a federal right, see
ibid. See, e. g., Monroe v. Pape, 365 U. S. 167, 183 (1961). Of course, the
extent to which a course of conduct has deviated from "clearly established"
federal law remains crucial to deciding whether an official will be entitled
to immunity from individual damage liability, see, e. g., Davis v. Scherer,
468 U. S. 183, 197 (1984).

120

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

e. g., Brief for Respondent 17. But such reasoning mistakes
a standard for validity under the Equal Protection and Due
Process Clauses for what the Supremacy Clause requires.
The power to tax is no less the power to destroy, McCulloch
v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316 (1819), merely because a state
legislature has an undoubtedly rational and "legitimate" interest in raising revenue. In labor pre-emption cases, as in
others under the Supremacy Clause, our office is not to pass
judgment on the reasonableness of state policy, see, e. g.,
Golden State I, 475 U. S. 608 (1986) (city's desire to remain
"neutral" in labor dispute does not determine pre-emption).
It is instead to decide if a state rule conflicts with or otherwise "stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives" of the federal law.
Brown v. Hotel Employees, 468 U. S.491, 501 (1984) (internal
14
quotation marks and citation omitted).
That is not to say, of course, that the several rationales for
the policy urged on the Court by the Commissioner and
amici are beside the point here. If, most obviously, the
Commissioner's policy were actually compelled by federal
law, as she argues it is, we could hardly say that it was,
simultaneously, pre-empted; at the least, our task would then
be one of harmonizing statutory law. But we entertain this
and other justifications claimed, not because constitutional
analysis under the Supremacy Clause is an open-ended balancing act, simply weighing the federal interest against the
intensity of local feeling, see id., at 503, but because claims of

justification can sometimes help us to discern congressional
purpose, the "ultimate touchstone" of our enquiry. Malone
14 Similarly, because our analysis here turns not on the "rationality" of
the governmental classification, but rather on its effect on federal objectives, the Commissioner's policy is not saved merely because it happens,
at the margins, to be "under-" and "over-inclusive," i. e., burdening certain
employees who are not protected by the NLRA and allowing employees
covered by highly unusual collective-bargaining agreements the benefit of
enforcement of §§ 201 and 203 claims.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

v. White Motor Corp., 435 U. S. 497, 504 (1978) (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted); see also New York
Telephone Co. v. New York State Dept. of Labor, 440 U. S.
519, 533 (1979) (plurality opinion).

2
We begin with the most complete of the defenses mounted
by the Commissioner, one that seems (or seemed until recently, at least) to be at the heart of her position: that the
challenged policy, far from being pre-empted by federal law,
is positively compelled by it, and that even if the Commissioner had been so inclined, the LMRA §301 would have precluded enforcement of Livadas's penalty claim. The nonenforcement policy, she suggests, is a necessary emanation
from this Court's §301 pre-emption jurisprudence, marked

as it has been by repeated admonitions that courts should
steer clear of collective-bargaining disputes between parties who have provided for arbitration. See, e. g., AllisChalmers Corp. v. Lueck, 471 U. S. 202 (1985). Because, this
argument runs (and Livadas was told in the DLSE no-action
letter), disposition of a union-represented employee's penalty claim entails the "interpretation or application" of
a collective-bargaining agreement (since determining the
amount owed turns on the contractual rate of pay agreed)
resort to a state tribunal would lead it into territory that
Congress, in enacting §301, meant to be covered exclusively
by arbitrators.
This reasoning, however, mistakes both the functions §301
serves in our national labor law and our prior decisions according that provision pre-emptive effect. To be sure, we
have read the text of § 30115 not only to grant federal courts
jurisdiction over claims asserting breach of collective" Section 301 states that

"[s]uits for violation of contracts between an

employer and a labor organization representing employees .

.

. may be

brought in any district court of the United States having jurisdiction of
the parties . . . ." 29 U. S. C. § 185(a).

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

bargaining agreements but also to authorize the development of federal common-law rules of decision, in large part
to assure that agreements to arbitrate grievances would be
enforced, regardless of the vagaries of state law and lingering hostility toward extrajudicial dispute resolution, see Textile Workers v. Lincoln Mills of Ala., 353 U. S. 448, 455-456
(1957); see also Steelworkers v. Warrior & Gulf Nay. Co., 363
U. S. 574 (1960); Avco Corp. v. Machinists, 390 U. S. 557, 559
(1968) ("§ 301 ... was fashioned by Congress to place sanctions behind agreements to arbitrate grievance disputes").
And in Teamsters v. Lucas Flour Co., 369 U. S. 95 (1962), we
recognized an important corollary to the Lincoln Mills rule:
while §301 does not preclude state courts from taking jurisdiction over cases arising from disputes over the interpretation of collective-bargaining agreements, state contract law
must yield to the developing federal common law, lest common terms in bargaining agreements be given different and
potentially inconsistent interpretations in different jurisdictions. See 369 U. S., at 103-104.16
And while this sensible "acorn" of §301 pre-emption recognized in Lucas Flourhas sprouted modestly in more recent
decisions of this Court, see, e. g., Lueck, supra, at 210 ("[I]f
the policies that animate §301 are to be given their proper
range.., the pre-emptive effect of § 301 must extend beyond
suits alleging contract violations"), it has not yet become,
nor may it, a sufficiently "mighty oak," see Golden State I,
475 U. S., at 622 (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting), to supply the
cover the Commissioner seeks here. To the contrary, the
pre-emption rule has been applied only to assure that the
18Within its proper sphere, § 301 has been accorded unusual pre-emptive

power.

In Avco Corp. v. Machinists,390 U. S. 557 (1968), for example, we

recognized that an action for breach of a collective-bargaining agreement
"ar[ose] under" § 301 (and therefore was subject to federal removal, see 28
U. S. C. § 1441 (1988 ed. and Supp. IV)), despite the fact that the petitioner's complaint did not mention the federal provision and appeared to plead
an adequate claim for relief under state contract law.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

purposes animating § 301 will be frustrated neither by state
laws purporting to determine "questions relating to what the
parties to a labor agreement agreed, and what legal consequences were intended to flow from breaches of that agreement," Lueck, 471 U. S., at 211, nor by parties' efforts to
renege on their arbitration promises by "relabeling" as tort
suits actions simply alleging breaches of duties assumed in
collective-bargaining agreements, id., at 219; see Republic
Steel Corp. v. Maddox, 379 U. S. 650, 652 (1965) ("[F]ederal
labor policy requires that individual employees wishing to
assert contract grievances must attempt use of the contract
grievance procedure agreed upon by employer and union as
the mode of redress") (emphasis deleted).
In Lueck and in Lingle v. Norge Div. of Magic Chef, Inc.,
486 U. S. 399 (1988), we underscored the point that §301 cannot be read broadly to pre-empt nonnegotiable rights con17
ferred on individual employees as a matter of state law,
and we stressed that it is the legal character of a claim, as
"independent" of rights under the collective-bargaining
agreement, Lueck, supra, at 213 (and not whether a grievance arising from "precisely the same set of facts" could be
pursued, Lingle, supra, at 410) that decides whether a state
17 That is so, we explained, both because Congress is understood to have
legislated against a backdrop of generally applicable labor standards, see,
e. g., Lingle, 486 U. S., at 411-412, and because the scope of the arbitral
promise is not itself unlimited, see Steelworkers v. Warrior & Gulf Nay.
Co., 363 U. S. 574, 582 (1960) ("[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a
party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he
has not agreed so to submit"). And while contract-interpretation disputes must be resolved in the bargained-for arbitral realm, see Republic
Steel Corp. v. Maddox, 379 U. S. 650 (1965), §301 does not disable state
courts from interpreting the terms of collective-bargaining agreements in
resolving non-pre-empted claims, see Charles Dowd Box Co. v. Courtney,
368 U.S. 502 (1962) (state courts have jurisdiction over § 301 suits but
must apply federal common law); NLRB v. C & C Plywood Corp., 385 U. S.
421 (1967).

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

cause of action may go forward. 18 Finally, we were clear
that when the meaning of contract terms is not the subject
of dispute, the bare fact that a collective-bargaining agreement will be consulted in the course of state-law litigation
plainly does not require the claim to be extinguished, see
Lingle, supra, at 413, n. 12 ("A collective-bargaining agreement may, of course, contain information such as rate of pay
• . . that might be helpful in determining the damages to
which a worker prevailing in a state-law suit is entitled").
These principles foreclose even a colorable argument that
a claim under Labor Code § 203 was pre-empted here. As
the District Court aptly observed, the primary text for deciding whether Livadas was entitled to a penalty was not the
Food Store Contract, but a calendar. The only issue raised
by Livadas's claim, whether Safeway "willfully fail[ed] to
pay" her wages promptly upon severance, Cal. Lab. Code
8We are aware, as an amicus brief makes clear, see Brief for AFL-CIO
as Amicus Curiae, that the Courts of Appeals have not been entirely
uniform in their understanding and application of the principles set down
in Lingle and Lueck. But this case, in which non-pre-emption under §301
is clear beyond peradventure, see infra this page and 125, is not a fit
occasion for us to resolve disagreements that have arisen over the proper
scope of our earlier decisions. We do note in this regard that while our
cases tend to speak broadly in terms of §301 "pre-emption," defendants
invoke that provision in diverse situations and for different reasons: sometimes their assertion is that a plaintiff's cause of action itself derives from
the collective-bargaining agreement (and, by that agreement, belongs before an arbitrator); in other instances, the argument is different, that a
plaintiff's claim cannot be "resolved" absent collective-bargaining agreement interpretation, i e., that a term of the agreement may or does confer
a defense on the employer (perhaps because the employee or his union has
negotiated away the state-law right), cf CaterpillarInc. v. Williams, 482
U. S. 386, 398-399 (1987); and in other cases still, concededly "independent" state-law litigation may nonetheless entail some collective-bargaining
agreement application. Holding the plaintiff's cause of action substantively extinguished may not, as amicus AFL-CIO observes, always be the
only means of vindicating the arbitrator's primacy as the bargained-for
contract interpreter. Cf Collyer Insulated Wire, Gulf & Western Systems Co., 192 N. L. R. B. 837 (1971).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Ann. §203 (West 1989), was a question of state law, entirely independent of any understanding embodied in the
collective-bargaining agreement between the union and the
employer. There is no indication that there was a "dispute"
in this case over the amount of the penalty to which Livadas
would be entitled, and Lingle makes plain in so many words
that when liability is governed by independent state law, the
mere need to "look to" the collective-bargaining agreement
for damages computation is no reasonto hold the state-law
claim defeated by § 301. See 486 U. S., at 413,.n. 12.19
Beyond the simple need to refer to bargained-for wage
rates in computing the penalty, the collective-bargaining
agreement is irrelevant to the dispute (if any) between Livadas and Safeway. There is no suggestion here that Livadas's union sought or purported to bargain away her protections under § 201 or § 203, a waiver that we have said would
(especially in view of Labor Code § 219) have to be "'clear
and unmistakable,"' see Lingle, supra,at 409-410, n. 9 (quoting Metropolitan Edison Co. v. NLRB, 460 U. S. 693, 708
(1983)), for a court even to consider whether it could be given
effect, nor is there any indication that the parties to the
collective-bargaining agreement understood their arbitration
pledge to cover these state-law claims. •See generally Gilmer v. Interstate/JohnsonLane Corp., 500 U. S.20, 35 (1991);
cf. Food Store Contract § 18.8. But even if such suggestions
or indications were to be found, the Commissioner could not
invoke them to defend her policy, which makes no effort to
take such factors into account before denying enforcement.2 °
19This is not to say, of course, that a §203 penalty claim could never be
pre-empted by §301.
20In holding the challenged policy pre-empted, we note that there is no
equally obvious conflict between what §301 requires and the text of Labor
Code §229 (as against what respondent has read it to mean). The California provision, which concerns whether a promise to arbitrate a claim will

be enforced to defeat a direct action under the Labor Code, does not purport generally to deny union-represented employees their rights under
88 201 and 203. Rather, it confines its preclusive focus only to 'dispute[s]

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

C
1

Before this Court, however, the Commissioner doea not
confine herself to the assertion that Livadas's claim would
have been pre-empted by LMRA § 301. Indeed, largely putting aside that position, she has sought here to cast the policy in different terms, as expressing a "conscious decision,"
see Brief for Respondent 14, to keep the State's "hands off"
the claims of employees protected by collective-bargaining
agreements, either because the Division's efforts and resources are more urgently needed by others or because
official restraint will actually encourage the collectivebargaining and arbitral processes favored by federal law.
The latter, more ambitious defense has been vigorously
taken up by the Commissioner's amici,who warn that invalidation of the disputed policy would sound the death knell
for other, more common governmental measures that take
account of collective-bargaining processes or treat workers
represented by unions differently from others in any respect.
Although there surely is no bar to our considering these
alternative explanations, cf. Dandridge v. Williams, 397
U. S. 471, 475, n. 6 (1970) (party may defend judgment on
basis not relied upon below), we note, as is often the case
with such late-blooming rationales, that the overlap between
what the Commissioner now claims to be state policy and
what the state legislature has enacted into law is awkwardly
inexact. First, if the Commissioner's policy (or California
concerning the interpretation or application of any collective-bargaining
agreement," in which event an "agreement to arbitrate" such disputes is
to be given effect. Nor does the Howard decision, the apparent font of
the Commissioner's policy, appear untrue to §301 teachings: there, an employee sought to have an "unpaid wage" claim do the office of a claim that
a collective-bargaining agreement entitled him to a higher wage; that sort
of claim, however, derives its existence from the collective-bargaining
agreement and, accordingly, falls within any customary understanding of
arbitral jurisdiction. See 53 Cal. App. 3d, at 836, 126 Cal. Rptr., at 411.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

law) were animated simply by the frugal desire to conserve
the State's money for the protection of employees not covered by collective-bargaining agreements, the Commissioner's emphasis, in the letter to Livadas and in this litigation,
on the need to "interpret" or "apply" terms of a collectivebargaining agreement would be entirely misplaced.
Nor is the nonenforcement policy convincingly defended
as giving parties to a collective-bargaining agreement the
"benefit of their bargain," see Brief for Respondent 18, n. 13,
by assuring them that their promise to arbitrate is kept and
not circumvented. Under the Commissioner's policy, enforcement does not turn on what disputes the parties agreed
would be resolved by arbitration (the bargain struck), see
Gilmer, 500 U. S., at 26, or on whether the contractual wage
rate is even subject to (arbitrable) dispute. Rather, enforcement turns exclusively on the fact that the contracting parties consented to any arbitration at all. Even if the Commissioner could permissibly presume that state-law claims
are generally intended to be arbitrated, but cf. id., at 35 (employees in prior cases "had not agreed to arbitrate their statutory claims, and the labor arbitrators were not authorized
to resolve such claims"),21 her policy goes still further. Even
in cases when it could be said with "positive assurance,"
21

In holding that an agreement to arbitrate an Age Discrimination in
Employment Act claim is enforceable under the Federal Arbitration Act,
Gilmer emphasized its basic consistency with our unanimous decision in
Alezander v. Gardner-DenverCo., 415 U. S. 36 (1974), permitting a discharged employee to bring a Title VII claim, notwithstanding his having
already grieved the dismissal under a collective-bargaining agreement.
Gilmer distinguished Gardner-Denveras relying, inter alia, on: the "distinctly separate nature of... contractual and statutory rights" (even when
both were "violated as a result of the same factual occurrence"), 415 U. S.,
at 50; the fact that a labor "arbitrator has authority to resolve only questions of contractual rights," id., at 53-54; and the concern that in
collective-bargaining arbitration, "the interests of the individual employee
may be subordinated to the collective interests of all employees in the
bargaining unit," id., at 58, rL 19.

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

Warrior & Gulf, 363 U. S., at 582, that the parties did not
intend that state-law claims be subject to arbitration, cf.
Food Store Contract § 18.8 (direct wage claim not involving
interpretation of agreement may be submitted "to any other
tribunal or agency which is authorized and empowered" to
enforce it), the Commissioner would still deny enforcement,
on the stated basis that the collective-bargaining agreement
nonetheless contained "an arbitration clause" and because
the claim would, on her view, entail "interpretation," of the
agreement's terms. Such an irrebuttable presumption is not
easily described as the benefit of the parties' "bargain."
The Commissioner and amici finally suggest that denying
enforcement to union-represented employees' claims under
§§201 and 203 (and other Labor Code provisions) is meant
to encourage parties to bargain collectively for their own
rules about the payment of wages to discharged workers.
But with this suggestion, the State's position simply slips
any tether to California law. If California's goal really were
to stimulate such freewheeling bargaining on these subjects,
the enactment of Labor Code §219, expressly and categorically prohibiting the modification of these Labor Code rules
by22"private agreement," would be a very odd way to pursue
it.
Cf. Cal. Lab. Code Ann. §227.3 (West 1989) (allowing
parties to collective-bargaining agreement to arrive at different rule for vacation pay). In short, the policy, the rationales, and the state law are not coherent.
2
Even at face value, however, neither the "hands off" labels
nor the vague assertions that general labor law policies are
thereby advanced much support the Commissioner's defense
here. The former merely takes the position discussed and
rejected earlier, that a distinction between claimants represented 'by unions and those who are not is "rational," the
22 The Commissioner avoids such complications simply by omitting any
reference to Labor Code § 219.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

former being less "in need" than the latter. While we
hardly suggest here that every distinction between unionrepresented employees and others is invalid under the
NLRA, see infra, at 131-132, the assertion that represented
employees are less "in need" precisely because they have
exercised federal rights poses special dangers that advantages conferred by federal law will be canceled out and its
objectives undermined. Cf. MetropolitanLife, 471 U. S., at
756 ("It would turn the policy that animated the Wagner Act
on its head to understand it to have penalized workers who
have chosen to join a union by preventing them from benefiting from state labor regulations imposing minimal standards
on nonunion employers"). Accordingly, as we observed in
MetropolitanLife, the widespread practice in Congress and
in state legislatures has assumed the contrary, bestowing
basic employment guarantees and protections on individual
employees without singling out members of labor unions (or
those represented by them) for disability; see id., at 755;23
accord, Lingle, 486 U. S., at 411-412.
Nor do professions of "neutrality" lay the dangers to rest.
The pre-empted action in Golden State I could easily have
been redescribed as following a "hands-off" policy, in that
the' city sought to avoid endorsing either side in the course
of a labor dispute, see 475 U. S., at 622 (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting) (city did not seek "to place its weight on one side or
the other of the scales of economic warfare"), and the respondent commission in Nash may have understood its policy
as expressing neutrality between the parties in a yet-to-be, We noted that "Congress [has never] seen fit to exclude unionized
workers and employers from laws establishing federal minimum employment standards. We see no reason to believe that for this purpose
Congress intended state minimum labor standards to be treated differently ....
Minimum state labor standards affect union and nonunion
employees equally and neither encourage nor discourage the collectivebargaining processes that are the subject of the NLRA." Metropolitan

Life, 471 U.S., at 755.

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

decided unfair labor practice dispute. See also Rum Creek
Coal Sales, Inc. v. Caperton, 971 F. 2d 1148, 1154 (CA4 1992)
(NLRA forbids state policy, under state law barring "aid or
assistance" to either party to a labor dispute, of not arresting
picketers who violated state trespass laws). Nor need we
pause long over the assertion that nonenforcement of valid
state-law claims is consistent with federal labor law by
"encouraging" the operation of collective bargaining and
arbitration process. Denying represented employees basic
safety protections might "encourage" collective bargaining
over that subject, and denying union employers the protection of generally applicable state trespass law might lead to
increased bargaining over the rights of labor pickets, cf.
Rum Creek, supra, but we have never suggested that labor
law's bias toward bargaining is to be served by forcing employees or employers to bargain for what they would otherwise be entitled to as a matter of course. See generally
MetropolitanLife, supra, at 757 (Congress did not intend to
"remove the backdrop of state law ... and thereby artificially
create a no-law area") (emphasis deleted and internal quotation marks omitted).2
The precedent cited by the Commissioner and amici
as supporting the broadest "hands off" view, Fort Halifax
Packing Co. v. Coyne, 482 U. S. 1 (1987), is not in point. In
that case we held that there was no federal pre-emption of a
Maine statute that allowed employees and employers to contract for plant-closing severance payments different from
those otherwise mandated by state law. That decision, however, does not even purport to address the question supposedly presented here: while there was mention of state lati2 Were it enough simply to point to a general labor policy advanced by
particular state action, the city in Golden State could have claimed to be

encouraging the "friendly adjustment of industrial disputes," 29 U. S. C.
§ 151, and the State in Gould, the entirely "laudable," 475 U. S., at 291,
purpose of "deter[ring] labor law violations and ... reward[ing] 'fidelity
to the law,"' id., at 287.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

tude to "balance the desirability of a particular substantive
labor standard against the right of self-determination regarding the terms and conditions of employment," see id., at
22, the policy challenged here differs in two crucial respects
from the "unexceptional exercise of the [State's] police
power," ibid. (internal quotation marks and citation omitted), defended in those terms in our earlier case. Most fundamentally, the Maine law treated all employees equally,
whether or not represented by a labor organization. All
were entitled to the statutory severance payment, and all
were allowed to negotiate agreements providing for different benefits. See id., at 4, n. 1. Second, the minimum
protections of Maine's plant-closing law were relinquished
not by the mere act of signing an employment contract
(or collective-bargaining agreement), but only by the parties'
express agreement on different terms, see id., at 21.2
While the Commissioner and her amici call our attention
to a number of state and federal laws that draw distinctions
between union and nonunion represented employees, see,
e.g., D. C. Code Ann. §36-103 (1993) ("Unless otherwise
specified in a collective agreement . . . [w]henever an employer discharges an employee, the employer shall pay the
employee's wages earned not later than the working day
following such discharge"); 29 U. S. C. § 203(o) ("Hours
[w]orked" for Fair Labor Standards Act measured according
to "express terms of . . . or practice under bona fide
collective-bargaining agreement"), virtually all share the
important second feature observed in Coyne, that unionrepresented employees have the full protection of the

minimum standard, absent any agreement for something
different. These "opt out" statutes are thus manifestly different in their operation (and their effect on federal rights)
2

It bears mention that the law in Fort Halifax pegged the benefit pay-

ment to an employee's wages, meaning that the State Labor Commissioner
would "look to" the collective-bargaining agreement in enforcing claims in
precisely the same manner that respondent would here.

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

from the Commissioner's rule that an employee forfeits his
state-law rights the moment a collective-bargaining agreement with an arbitration clause is entered into. But cf. Metropolitan Edison, 460 U. S., at 708. Hence, our holding that
the Commissioner's unusual policy is irreconcilable with the
structure and purposes of the Act should cast no shadow on
the validity6 of these familiar and narrowly drawn opt-out
2
provisions.
III

Having determined that the Commissioner's policy is in
fact pre-empted by federal law, we find strong support in our
precedents for the position taken by both courts below that
Livadas is entitled to seek relief under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 for
the Commissioner's abridgment of her NLRA rights. Section 1983 provides a federal cause of action for the deprivation, under color of law, of a citizen's "rights, privileges, or
immunities secured by the Constitution and laws" of the
United States, and we have given that provision the effect
its terms require, as affording redress for violations of federal statutes, as well as of constitutional norms. Maine v.
Thiboutot, 448 U. S. 1, 4 (1980). We have, it is true, recognized that even the broad statutory text does not authorize a
suit for every alleged violation of federal law. A particular
statutory provision, for example, may be so manifestly precatory that it could not fairly be read to impose a "binding
obligatio[n]" on a governmental unit, PennhurstState School
and Hospital v. Halderman, 451 U. S. 1, 27 (1981), or its
terms may be so "vague and amorphous" that determining
whether a "deprivation" might have occurred would strain
judicial competence. See Wright v. Roanoke RedevelopONor does it seem plausible to suggest that Congress meant to preempt such opt-out laws, as "burdening" the statutory right of employees
not to join unions by denying nonrepresented employees the "benefit" of
being able to "contract out" of such standards.

Cf. Addendum B to Brief

for Employers Group as Amicus Curiae (collecting state statutes containing similar provisions).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

ment and Housing Authority, 479 U. S. 418, 431-432 (1987).
And Congress itself might make it clear that violation of a
statute will not give rise to liability under § 1983, either by
express words or by providing a comprehensive alternative
enforcement scheme. See Middlesex County Sewerage Authority v. National Sea Clammers Assn., 453 U. S. 1 (1981).
But apart from these exceptional cases, § 1983 remains a
generally and presumptively available remedy for claimed
violations of federal law. See also Dennis v. Higgins, 498
U. S. 439, 443 (1991).
Our conclusion that Livadas is entitled to seek redress
under § 1983 is, if not controlled outright, at least heavily
foreshadowed by our decision in Golden State I. We began
there with the recognition that not every instance of federal
pre-emption gives rise to a § 1983 cause of action, see 493
U. S., at 108, and we explained that to decide the availability
of § 1983 relief a court must look to the nature of the federal
law accorded pre-emptive effect and the character of the interest claimed under it, ibid.2 1 We had no difficulty concluding, however, as we had often before, see, e. g., Hill v. Florida ex rel. Watson, 325 U. S. 538 (1945), that the NLRA

protects interests of employees and employers against
abridgment by a State, as well as by private actors; that
the obligations it imposes on governmental actors are not so
"vague and amorphous" as to exceed judicial competence to
decide; and that Congress had not meant to foreclose relief
under § 1983. In so concluding, we contrasted the intricate
scheme provided to remedy violations by private actors to
the complete absence of provision for relief from governmen2 Thus, Golden State II observed that an NLRA pre-emption claim
grounded in the need to vindicate the primary jurisdiction of the National
Labor Relations Board, see San Diego Building Trades Council v. Gar-

mon, 359 U. S. 236 (1959), see n. 10, supra, is "fundamentally different"
from one stemming from state abridgment of a protected individual interest, see 493 U. S., at 110, a difference that might prove relevant to cognizability under § 1983.

LIVADAS v. BRADSHAW
Opinion of the Court

tal interference, see 493 U. S., at 108-109. Indeed, the only
issue seriously in dispute in Golden State II was whether
the freedom to resort to "peaceful methods of ... economic
pressure," id., at 112 (internal quotation marks omitted),
which we had recognized as implicit in the structure of the
Act, could support § 1983 liability in the same manner as official abridgment of those rights enumerated in the text
would do. Ibid. The Court majority said yes, explaining
that "[a] rule of law that is the product of judicial interpretation of a vague, ambiguous, or incomplete statutory provision
is no less binding than a rule that is based on the plain meaning of a statute." Ibid.
The right Livadas asserts, to complete the collectivebargaining process and agree to an arbitration clause, is, if
not provided in so many words in the NLRA, see n. 10,
supra, at least as immanent in its structure as the right of
the cab company in Golden State II. And the obligation to
respect it on the part of the Commissioner and others acting
under color of law is no more "vague and amorphous" than
the obligation in Golden State. Congress, of course, has
given no more indication of any intent to foreclose actions
like Livadas's than the sort brought by the cab company.
Finding no cause for special caution here, we hold that Livadas's claim is properly brought under § 1983.

IV
In an effort to give wide berth to federal labor law
and policy, the Commissioner declines to enforce unionrepresented employees' claims rooted in nonwaivable rights
ostensibly secured by state law to all employees, without regard to whether the claims are valid under state law or preempted by LMRA §301. Federal labor law does not require
such a heavy-handed policy, and, indeed, cannot permit it.
We do not suggest here that the NLRA automatically defeats all state action taking any account of the collectivebargaining process or every state law distinguishing union-

Cite as: 512 U. S. 107 (1994)

135

Opinion of the Court

represented employees from others. It is enough that we
find the Commissioner's policy to have such direct and detrimental effects on the federal statutory rights of employees
that it must be pre-empted. The judgment of the Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is accordingly
Reversed.

