OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF
NEW YORK ET AL. v. MILHELM ATTEA
& BROS., INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK

No. 93-377. Argued March 23, 1994-Decided June 13, 1994
Enrolled tribal members purchasing cigarettes on Indian reservations are
exempt from a New York cigarette tax, but non-Indians making such
purchases are not. Licensed agents precollect the tax by purchasing
stamps and affixing them to cigarette packs in advance of their first sale.
Determining that a large volume of unstamped cigarettes was being
purchased by non-Indians on reservations, petitioner tax department
enacted regulations imposing recordkeeping requirements and quantity
limitations on cigarette wholesalers selling untaxed cigarettes to reservation Indians. As relevant here, the regulations set quotas on the
quantity of untaxed cigarettes that wholesalers may sell to tribes and
tribal retailers, and petitioner tax department must approve each such
sale. Wholesalers must also ensure that a buyer holds a valid state tax
exemption certificate, and must keep records of their tax-exempt sales,
make monthly reports to petitioners, and, as licensed agents, precollect
taxes on nonexempt sales. Respondent wholesalers are licensed by the
Bureau of Indian Affairs to sell cigarettes to reservation Indians. They
filed separate suits in state court alleging that the regulations were
pre-empted by the federal Indian Trader Statutes. The trial court issued an injunction. Ultimately, the Appellate Division upheld the regulations, but the Court of Appeals reversed, distinguishing this Court's
decisions upholding taxes imposed on non-Indian purchasers of cigarettes, see Moe v. ConfederatedSalish and Kootenai Tribes of Flathead
Reservation, 425 U. S. 463; Washington v. Confederated Tribes of Colville Reservation, 447 U. S. 134, on the ground that they involved regulating sales to non-Indian consumers whereas New York's regulations
applied to sales by non-Indian wholesalers to reservation Indians. The
court concluded that the Indian Trader Statutes, as construed in Warren
Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, 380 U. S. 685, deprived the
States of all power to impose regulatory burdens on licensed Indian
traders, and, alternatively, that if States could impose minimal burdens
on the traders, New York's regulations were invalid because the burdens were significant.
Held. New York's regulations do not, on their face, violate the Indian
Trader Statutes. Pp. 69-78.

62

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y. v.
MILHELM ATTEA & BROS.
Syllabus

(a) Because respondents have made essentially a facial challenge, this
case is confined to those alleged defects that inhere in the regulations
as written, and the Court need not assess for all purposes each feature
of the tax scheme that might affect tribal self-government or federal
authority over Indian affairs. Pp. 69-70.
(b) Indian traders are not wholly immune from state regulation that
is reasonably necessary to the assessment or collection of lawful state
taxes. Although broad language in Warren Trading Post suggests such
immunity, that proposition has been undermined by subsequent decisions in Moe (upholding a state law requiring Indian retailers on tribal
land to collect a state cigarette tax imposed on sales to non-Indians),
Colville (upholding in relevant part a state law requiring tribal retailers
on reservations to collect cigarette taxes on sales to nonmembers and
to keep extensive records), and Oklahoma Tax Comm'n v. Citizen Band
of Potawatomi Tribe of Okla., 498 U. S. 505. These cases have made
clear that the States have a valid interest in ensuring compliance with
lawful taxes that might easily be evaded through purchases of taxexempt cigarettes on reservations; that interest outweighs tribes' modest interest in offering a tax exemption to customers who would ordinarily shop elsewhere. Thus, there is more room for state regulation
in this area. In particular, these cases have decided that States may
impose on reservation retailers minimal burdens reasonably tailored to
the collection of valid taxes from non-Indians. It would be anomalous
to hold that a State could impose tax collection and bookkeeping burdens on reservation retailers who are enrolled tribal members but not
on wholesalers, who often are not. Pp. 70-75.
(c) New York's scheme does not impose excessive burdens on Indian
traders. Respondents' objections to the regulations setting quotas and
requiring that petitioners preapprove deliveries provide no basis for a
facial challenge, although the possibility of inadequate quotas may provide a basis for a future challenge to the regulations' application. The
requirements that wholesalers sell untaxed cigarettes only to persons
with valid exemption certificates and keep detailed records are no more
demanding than comparable measures approved in Colville. Moreover, the precollection obligation placed on wholesalers is the same as
the obligation that, under Moe and Colville, may be imposed on reservation retailers. The United States' arguments supporting its position
that the scheme improperly burdens Indian trading are also rejected.
Pp. 75-78.
81 N. Y. 2d 417, 615 N. E. 2d 994, reversed.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 61 (1994)
Counsel

G. Oliver Koppell, Attorney General of New York, argued
the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs were Robert Abrams, former Attorney General, Jerry Boone, Solicitor
General, Peter H. Schiff, Deputy Solicitor General, and Lew
A. Millenbach, Assistant Attorney General.
Joseph E. Zdarsky argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Hans Walker, Jr., Michael Roy,
Guy J. Agostinelli, and Gerald T Walsh.
Beth S. Brinkmann argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With her on the
brief were Solicitor General Days, Acting Assistant Attorney General Schiffer, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler,
Edward J. Shawaker, and Vicki L. Plaut.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Connecticut by Richard Blumenthal, Attorney General, and David H. Wrinn,
Assistant Attorney General; for the State of Washington et al. by Christine 0. Gregoire, Attorney General of Washington, and by the Attorneys
General for their respective States as follows: Grant Woods of Arizona,
Daniel E. Lungren of California, Robert A Butterworth of Florida, Bonnie J Campbell of Iowa, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, FrankieSue Del
Papa of Nevada, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, Susan B. Loving of
Oklahoma, Theodore R. Kulongoski of Oregon, Jeffrey B. Pine of Rhode
Island, Mark Barnett of South Dakota, Jan Graham of Utah, and James
E. Doyle of Wisconsin; for the Empire State Petroleum Association, Inc.,
et al. by Emilio A F. Petroccioneand Usher Fogel; for the National Association of Convenience Stores et al. by Mark L. Austrian; for the National
Governors' Association et al. by Richard Ruda; and for the New York
State Association of Tobacco and Candy Distributors, Inc., by Thomas
G. Jackson.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the CheyenneArapaho Tribes of Oklahoma et al. by Melody L. McCoy, Yvonne Teresa
Knight, Kim Jerome Gottschalk, Bertram E. Hirsch, Patrick L. Smith,
Michael E. Taylor, Jeanne S. Whiteing, and Robert S. Thompson III; for
the Muscogee (Creek) Nation by Michael Minnis, F. Browning Pipestem,
and Leah Harjo Ware; for the Oneida Indian Nation of New York by William W Taylor III and Michael R. Smith; for the Saint Regis Mohawk
Tribe et al. by Bradley S. Waterman and Samuel M. Maruca;and for the
Seneca Nation of Indians by Timothy B. Dyk and Beth Heifetz.

64

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y. v.
MILHELM ATTEA & BROS.
Opinion of the Court

delivered the opinion of the Court.
Cigarette consumers in New York are subject to a state
tax of 56 cents per pack. Enrolled tribal members who purchase cigarettes on Indian reservations are exempt from this
tax, but non-Indians making purchases on reservations must
pay it. To prevent non-Indians from escaping the tax, New
York has enacted a regulatory scheme that imposes recordkeeping requirements and quantity limitations on cigarette
wholesalers who sell untaxed cigarettes to reservation Indians. The question presented is whether New York's program is pre-empted by federal statutes governing trade
with Indians.
I
Article 20 of the New York Tax Law imposes a tax on all
cigarettes possessed in the State except those that New York
is "without power" to tax. N. Y Tax Law § 471(1) (McKinney 1987 and Supp. 1994). The State collects the cigarette
tax through licensed agents who purchase tax stamps and
affix them to cigarette packs in advance of the first sale
within the State. The full amount of the tax is part of the
price of stamped cigarettes at all subsequent steps in the
distribution stream. Accordingly, the "ultimate incidence of
and liability for the tax [is] upon the consumer." §471(2).
Any person who "willfully attempts in any manner to evade
or defeat" the cigarette tax commits a misdemeanor. N. Y.
Tax Law § 1814(a) (McKinney 1987).
Because New York lacks authority to tax cigarettes sold
to tribal members for their own consumption, see Moe v.
Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of FlatheadReservation, 425 U. S. 463, 475-481 (1976), cigarettes to be consumed on the reservation by enrolled tribal members are tax
exempt and need not be stamped. On-reservation cigarette
sales to persons other than reservation Indians, however, are
legitimately subject to state taxation. See Washington v.
Confederated Tribes of Colville Reservation, 447 U. S. 134,
160-161 (1980). In 1988, New York's Department of TaxaJUSTICE STEVENS

Cite as: 512 U. S. 61 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

tion and Finance 1 determined that a large volume of unstamped cigarettes wasbeing purchased by non-Indians from
reservation retailers. According to an affidavit submitted
by an official in the Department's Audit Division, the volume
of tax-exempt cigarettes sold on New York reservations in
1987-1988 would, if consumed exclusively by tax-immune Indians, correspond to a consumption rate 20 times higher than
that of the average New York resident; in 1988-1989, putative reservation consumption was 32 times the statewide average. See Record 244-246 (Affidavit of Jamie Woodward).
Because unlawful purchases of unstamped cigarettes deprived New York of substantial tax revenues-now estimated at more than $65 million per year-the Department
adopted the regulations at issue in this case.2
The regulations recognize the right of "exempt Indian
nations or tribes, qualified Indian consumers and registered
dealers" to "purchase, on qualified reservations, cigarettes
upon which the seller has not prepaid and precollected the
cigarette tax imposed pursuant to article 20 of the Tax Law."
20 N. Y. C. R. R. §336.6(a) (1992). To ensure that nonexempt purchasers do not likewise escape taxation, the regulations limit the quantity of untaxed cigarettes that wholesalers may sell to tribes and tribal retailers. The limitations
may be established and enforced in alternative ways. A
tribe may enter into an agreement with the Department "to
regulate, license, or control the sale and distribution within
its qualified reservation of an agreed upon amount of [un'The petitioners in this case are the Department of Taxation and Finance of the State of New York, its Commissioner James W. Wetzler, and
the Tax Appeals Tribunal of the State of New York. For convenience we
refer to petitioners collectively as the Department.
2The cigarette regulations are similar to regulations New York adopted
in an effort to prevent sales of untaxed gasoline to non-Indians on reservations. See Herzog Bros. Trucking, Inc. v. State Tax Comm'n, 69 N. Y. 2d
536, 508 N. E. 2d 914 (1987) (finding regulations pre-empted by federal
law), vacated and remanded, 487 U. S.1212 (1988), on remand 72 N. Y.2d
720, 533 N. E. 2d 255 (1988).

66

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y v.
MILHELM ATTEA & BROS.
Opinion of the Court

taxed] cigarettes," in which case wholesalers must obtain the
tribe's approval for each delivery of untaxed cigarettes to a
reservation retailer. § 336.7(c)(1). In the absence of such
an agreement-and apparently there have been none to
date-the Department itself limits the permitted quantity of
untaxed cigarettes based on the "probable demand" of
tax-exempt Indian consumers. §336.7(d)(1).
The Department calculates "probable demand" in either of
two ways. If a tribe "regulates, licenses or controls the sale
and distribution of cigarettes within its reservation," the Department will rely upon evidence submitted by that tribe
concerning local demand for cigarettes. § 336.7(d)(2)(i).
Otherwise, the Department fixes the untaxed cigarette limit
for a tribe by multiplying the "New York average [cigarette]
consumption per capita" by the number of enrolled members
of the affected tribe. §§ 336.7(d)(1), (d)(2)(ii). Each sale of
untaxed cigarettes by a wholesaler to a tribe or reservation
retailer must be approved by the Department; approval is
"based upon evidence of valid purchase orders received by
the agent [i. e., wholesaler] of quantities of cigarettes reasonably related to the probable demand of qualified Indian consumers in the trade territory" of the tribe. Ibid.4 Retailers are sent "Tax Exemption Coupons" entitling them to
their monthly allotment of tax-exempt cigarettes. The retailer gives copies of its coupons to the wholesaler upon delivery, and the wholesaler forwards one to the Department.
See Brief for Petitioners 12-13; App. 44-45. The Department may withhold approval of deliveries to tribes or re"The regulation cites as examples of such evidence "records of previous sales to qualified Indian consumers, records relating to the average
consumption of qualified Indian consumers on and near its reservation,
tribal enrollment, or other statistical evidence, etc." 20 N. Y. C. R. R.
§336.7(d)(2)(i) (1992).
4The Department determines the "trade territory" in consultation with
the tribe if the tribe has undertaken to regulate the sale and distribution
of cigarettes; otherwise, the Department determines the trade territory
"based upon the information at its disposal." § 336.7(d)(3)(ii).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 61 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

tailers who "are or have been" violating the regulations,
§336.7(d)(6), and may cancel the exemption certificates of
noncomplying tribes or retailers. See §§336.6(d)(3), (e)(5).
Wholesalers who wish to sell tax-free cigarettes to Indian
tribes or reservation retailers must ensure that the buyer
intends to distribute the cigarettes to tax-exempt consumers,
takes delivery on the reservation, and holds a valid state
tax exemption certificate. 6 Reservation retailers may sell
unstamped cigarettes only to "qualified Indian consumers,"
who at the time of first purchase must provide the retailer
with a "certificate of individual Indian exemption" and provide written evidence of their identity for subsequent purchases.

6
§§ 336.6(e)(2), (g)(1).

Wholesale distributors of tax-exempt cigarettes must hold
state licenses authorizing them to purchase and affix New
York cigarette tax stamps, and must collect taxes on nonexempt sales. §§ 336.7(b)(2), (e). They must also keep records reflecting the identity of the buyer in each tax-exempt
sale and make monthly reports to the Department on all such
sales. §§ 336.6(g)(3)-(4). New York's regulatory scheme,
unsurprisingly, imposes no restrictions on the sale of
stamped cigarettes-i. e., those on which taxes have been
precollected by wholesalers.
II
Respondents are wholesalers licensed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the United States Department of the Interior
(BIA) to sell cigarettes to reservation Indians. Before New
5 See

§§ 336.6(d)(1), (f)(1); §336.7(b)(I). The purchasing tribe or retailer
must display its exemption certificate at the time of first purchase, and
must sign an invoice for subsequent purchases. § 336.6(g)(1).
6A "qualified Indian consumer" is an enrolled member of one of New
York's exempt Indian nations or tribes "who purchases or intends to purchase cigarettes within the boundaries of a qualified reservation for such
Indian's own use or consumption (i. e., other than for resale) within such
reservation." §336.6(b)(1)(ii).

68

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y v.
MILHELM ATTEA & BROS.
Opinion of the Court

York's cigarette tax enforcement scheme went into effect,
they filed separate suits in the Supreme Court in Albany
County alleging that the regulations were pre-empted by the
federal Indian Trader Statutes, 25 U. S. C. § 261 et seq. The
trial court agreed and issued an injunction. After the Appellate Division affirmed, Milhelm Attea & Bros., Inc. v.
Dept. of Taxation and Finance of New York, 164 App. Div.
2d 300, 564 N. Y. S. 2d 491 (1990), and the New York Court
of Appeals denied review, we granted certiorari, vacated the
judgment of the Appellate Division, and remanded for further consideration in the light of our decision in Oklahoma
Tax Comm'n v. Citizen Band of Potawatomi Tribe of Okla.,
498 U. S. 505 (1991). 502 U. S. 1053 (1992). On remand, the
Appellate Division upheld the regulations, 181 App. Div. 2d
210, 585 N. Y. S. 2d 847 (1992), but the Court of Appeals
reversed, 81 N. Y. 2d 417, 615 N. E. 2d 994 (1993).
The Court of Appeals distinguished our decisions holding
that a State may require Indian retailers to collect a tax
imposed on non-Indian purchasers of cigarettes, see Moe v.
Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of Flathead Reservation, 425 U. S. 463 (1976); Washington v. Confederated
Tribes of Colville Reservation, 447 U. S. 134 (1980), on the
ground that those cases involved the regulation of sales
to non-Indian consumers. 81 N. Y. 2d, at 425, 615 N. E. 2d,
at 997. In the Court of Appeals' view, this case was significantly different because New York's regulations apply
to sales by non-Indian wholesalers to reservation Indians.
Ibid. The court concluded that the Indian Trader Statutes,
as construed in Warren Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax
Comm'n, 380 U. S. 685 (1965), deprived the States of all
power to impose regulatory burdens on licensed Indian traders. 81 N. Y. 2d, at 426-427, 615 N. E. 2d, at 997-998. Even
if States could impose minimal burdens on Indian traders,
the Court of Appeals alternatively held, New York's regulations are nevertheless invalid because they "impose significant burdens on the wholesaler." Id., at 427, 615 N. E. 2d,

Cite as: 512 U. S. 61 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

at 998. In particular, the regulations "dictate to Indian
traders the number of unstamped cigarettes they can sell to
reservation Indians and direct with whom they may trade."
Ibid. Moreover, New York's scheme "requires wholesale
distributors to prepay taxes on all cigarettes delivered on
the reservations in excess of the predetermined maximum
amount and, with respect to those cigarettes, imposes a sales
tax on Indian retailers." Ibid.
We granted certiorari, 510 U. S. 943 (1993), and now
reverse.
III
Respondents' challenge to New York's regulatory scheme
is essentially a facial one. In reviewing a challenge of this
kind, we do not rest our decision on consequences that, while
possible, are by no means predictable. For example, respondents do not contest the factual accuracy of the Department's initial calculations of "probable demand" for taxexempt cigarettes at particular reservations, see Record
244-248; rather, they challenge the Department's authority
to impose such limits at all. Therefore, for present purposes
we must assume that the allocations for each reservation will
be sufficiently generous to satisfy the legitimate demands of
those reservation Indians who smoke cigarettes. In: other
respects as well, we confine ourselves to those alleged defects that inhere in the regulations as written.
A second limitation on our review flows from the nature
of respondents' challenge. Their claim is that the New York
scheme interferes with their federally protected activities as
Indian traders who sell goods at wholesale to reservation
Indians. While the effect of the New York scheme on Indian
retailers and consumers may be relevant to that inquiry, see
Warren Trading Post, 380 U. S., at 691, this case does not
require us to assess for all purposes each feature of New
York's tax enforcement scheme that might affect tribal selfgovernment or federal authority over Indian affairs. Here

70

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y. v.
MILHELM ATTEA & BROS.
Opinion of the Court

we confront the narrower question whether the New York
scheme is inconsistent with the Indian Trader Statutes.
IV
Throughout this Nation's history, Congress has authorized
"sweeping" and "comprehensive federal regulation" over
persons who wish to trade with Indians and Indian tribes.
Warren Trading Post, 380 U. S., at 687-689. An exercise of
Congress' power to "regulate Commerce... with the Indian
Tribes," see U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 3, the Indian Trader
Statutes were enacted to prevent fraud and other abuses by
persons trading with Indians. See Central Machinery Co.
v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, 448 U. S.160, 163-164 (1980). The
provision principally relied upon by respondents and by the
Court of Appeals, enacted in 1876 and captioned "Power to
appoint traders with Indians," states:
"The Commissioner of Indian Affairs shall have the sole
power and authority to appoint traders to the Indian
tribes and to make such rules and regulations as he may
deem just and proper specifying the kind and quantity
'of goods and the prices at which such goods shall be sold
to the Indians." 19 Stat. 200, 25 U. S. C. §261. 7
In Warren Trading Post, we held that this provision prevented Arizona from imposing a tax on the income or gross
sales proceeds of licensed Indian traders dealing with reservation Indians. The Indian Trader Statutes and the "apparently all-inclusive regulations" under them, we stated,
"would seem in themselves sufficient to show that Congress
has taken the business of Indian trading on reservations so
7The other Indian trader provisions state that persons who establish
their fitness to trade with Indians to the BIA's satisfaction shall be permitted to do so, 25 U. S. C. §262, authorize the President to prohibit the introduction of goods into Indian country and to revoke licenses, §263, and
impose penalties for unauthorized trading, §264. BIA regulations under
the statutes are codified at 25 CFR H 140.1-140.26 (1993).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 61 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

fully in hand that no room remains for state laws imposing
additional burdens upon traders." 380 U. S., at 690. Therefore, Arizona's tax "would to a substantial extent frustrate
the evident congressional purpose of ensuring that no burden
shall be imposed upon Indian traders for trading with Indians on reservations except as authorized by Acts of Congress
or by valid regulations promulgated under those Acts." Id.,
at 691. See also Central Machinery Co., 448 U. S., at 163166 (tax on proceeds of sale of farm machinery to tribe preempted by §261).
Although language in Warren Trading Post suggests that
no state regulation of Indian traders can be valid, our subsequent decisions have "undermine[d]" that proposition. See
Central Machinery, 448 U. S., at 172 (Powell, J., dissenting).
Thus, in Moe, we upheld a Montana law that required Indian
retailers on tribal land to collect a state cigarette tax imposed on sales to non-Indian consumers. We noted that the
Indian smokeshop proprietor's competitive advantage over
other retailers depended "on the extent to which the nonIndian purchaser is willing to flout his legal obligation to pay
the tax. Without the simple expedient of having the retailer collect the sales tax from non-Indian purchasers, it is
clear that wholesale violations of the law by the latter class
will go virtually unchecked." 425 U. S., at 482. In contrast
to the tax in Warren Trading Post, which fell directly upon
an Indian trader, the cigarette tax in Moe fell upon a classnon-Indians-whom the State had power to tax. 425 U. S.,
at 483. We approved Montana's "requirement that the Indian tribal seller collect a tax validly imposed on nonIndians" as a "minimal burden designed to avoid the likelihood that in its absence non-Indians purchasing from the
tribal seller will avoid payment of a concededly lawful tax."
Ibid.
In Colville, we upheld in relevant part a more comprehensive Washington State cigarette tax enforcement scheme
that required tribal retailers selling goods on the reservation

72

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y v.
MILHELM ATTEA & BROS.
Opinion of the Court

to collect taxes on sales to nonmembers and to keep extensive records concerning these transactions. We rejected the
proposition that "principles of federal Indian law, whether
stated in terms of pre-emption, tribal self-government, or
otherwise, authorize Indian tribes thus to market an exemption from state taxation to persons who would normally do
their business elsewhere." 447 U. S., at 155. Moreover, the
Tribes had failed to meet their burden of showing that the
recordkeeping requirements imposed on tribal retailers were
"not reasonably necessary as a means of preventing fraudulent transactions." Id., at 160.8 See also California Bd.
of Equalization v. Chemehuevi Tribe, 474 U. S. 9, 11-12
(1985) (per curiam).
In Potawatomi, we held that sovereign immunity barred
the State of Oklahoma's suit against a Tribe to recover cigarette taxes owed for sales to non-Indians at a convenience
store owned by the Tribe. In response to the State's protest
that the Tribe's immunity from suit made the State's recognized authority to tax cigarette sales to non-Indians a "right
without any remedy," 498 U. S., at 514, we explained that
alternative remedies existed for state tax collectors, such as
damages actions against individual tribal officers or agreements with the tribes. Ibid. We added that "States may
of course collect the sales tax from cigarette wholesalers,
either by seizing unstamped cigarettes off the reservation,
Colville, [447 U. S.,] at 161-162, or by assessing wholesalers
"We described the recordkeeping requirements as follows:
"The state sales tax scheme requires smokeshop operators to keep detailed records of both taxable and nontaxable transactions. The operator
must record the number and dollar volume of taxable sales to nonmembers
of the Tribe. With respect to nontaxable sales, the operator must record
and retain for state inspection the names of all Indian purchasers, their
tribal affiliations, the Indian reservations within which sales are made,
and the dollar amount and dates of sales. In addition, unless the Indian
purchaser is personally known to the operator he must present a tribal
identification card." Colville, 447 U. S., at 159.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 61 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

who supplied unstamped cigarettes to the tribal stores."
Ibid.
V
This is another case in which we must "reconcile the plenary power of the States over residents within their borders
with the semi-autonomous status of Indians living on tribal
reservations." McClanahan v. Arizona Tax Comm'n, 411
U. S. 164, 165 (1973). Resolution of conflicts of this kind
does not depend on "rigid rule[s]" or on "mechanical or absolute conceptions of state or tribal sovereignty," but instead
on "a particularized inquiry into the nature of the state, federal, and tribal interests at stake, an inquiry designed to
determine whether, in the specific context, the exercise of
state authority would violate federal law." White Mountain Apache Tribe v. Bracker, 448 U. S. 136, 142, 145 (1980).
See also Cotton Petroleum Corp. v. New Mexico, 490 U. S.
163, 176 (1989).
The specific kind of state tax obligation that New York's
regulations are designed to enforce-which falls on nonIndian purchasers of goods that are merely retailed on a reservation-stands on a markedly different footing from a tax
imposed directly on Indian traders, on enrolled tribal members or tribal organizations, or on "value generated on the
reservation by activities involving the Tribes," Colville, 447
U. S., at 156-157. Moe, Colville, and Potawatomi make
clear that the States have a valid interest in ensuring compliance with lawful taxes that might easily be evaded through
purchases of tax-exempt cigarettes on reservations; that interest outweighs tribes' modest interest in offering a tax exemption to customers who would ordinarily shop elsewhere.
The "balance of state, federal, and tribal interests," Rice v.
Rehner, 463 U. S. 713, 720 (1983), in this area thus leaves
more room for state regulation than in others. In particular, these cases have decided that States may impose on reservation retailers minimal burdens reasonably tailored to the
collection of valid taxes from non-Indians.

74

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y. v.
MILHELM ATTEA & BROS.
Opinion of the Court

Although Moe and Colville dealt most directly with claims
of interference with tribal sovereignty, 9 the reasoning of
those decisions requires rejection of the submission that 25
U. S. C. § 261 bars any and all state-imposed burdens on Indian traders. It would be anomalous to hold that a State
could impose tax collection and bookkeeping burdens on reservation retailers who are themselves enrolled tribal members, including stores operated by the tribes themselves, but
that similar burdens could not be imposed on wholesalers,
who often (as in this case) are not. 10 Such a ruling might
well have the perverse consequence of casting greater state
tax enforcement burdens on the very reservation Indians
whom the Indian Trader Statutes were enacted to protect.
Just as tribal sovereignty does not completely preclude
States from enlisting tribal retailers to assist enforcement of
valid state taxes, the Indian Trader Statutes do not bar the
States from imposing reasonable regulatory burdens upon
Indian traders for the same purpose. A regulation designed
to prevent non-Indians from evading taxes may well burden
Indian traders in the sense that it reduces the competitive
advantage offered by trading unlimited quantities of tax-free
goods; but that consideration is no more weighty in the case
of Indian traders engaged in wholesale transactions than it
was in the case of reservation retailers.
The state law we found pre-empted in Warren Trading
Post was a tax directly "imposed upon Indian traders for
trading with Indians." 380 U. S., at 691. See also Central
Machinery, 448 U. S., at 164. That characterization does
9In fact, in Colville, the tribal retailers obligated to collect state taxes
on cigarette sales to non-Indians and keep detailed sales records were
licensed Indian traders. See Confederated Tribes of Colville v. State of
Wash., 446 F. Supp. 1339, 1347 (ED Wash. 1978).
'0 According to the Federal Government, there are approximately 125
federally licensed Indian traders in New York, of whom the 64 wholesalers
are all non-Indians and the 61 retailers are all Indians. See Brief for
United States as Amicus Curiae 2, n. 1.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 61 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

not apply to regulations designed to prevent circumvention
of "concededly lawful" taxes owed by non-Indians. See
Moe, 425 U. S., at 482-483. Although broad language in our
opinion in Warren Trading Post lends support to a contrary
conclusion, we now hold that Indian traders are not wholly
immune from state regulation that is reasonably necessary
to the assessment or collection of lawful state taxes. That
conclusion does not, of course, answer the Court of Appeals'
alternative basis for striking down the New York schemenamely, that it imposes excessive burdens on Indian traders.
VI
Respondents vigorously object to the limitation of wholesaler's tax-exempt cigarette sales through the "probable demand" mechanism. We are persuaded, however, that New
York's decision to stanch the illicit flow of tax-free cigarettes
early in the distribution stream is a "reasonably necessary"
method of "preventing fraudulent transactions," one that
"polices against wholesale evasion of [New York's] own valid
taxes without unnecessarily intruding on core tribal interests." Colville, 447 U. S., at 160, 162. The sole purpose
and justification for the quotas on untaxed cigarettes is the
State's legitimate interest in avoiding tax evasion by nonIndian consumers. By imposing a quota on tax-free cigarettes, New York has not sought to dictate "the kind and
quantity of goods and the prices at which such goods shall
be sold to the Indians." 25 U. S. C. § 261. Indian traders
remain free to sell Indian tribes and retailers as many cigarettes as they wish, of any kind and at whatever price. If
the Department's "probable demand" calculations are adequate, tax-immune Indians will not have to pay New York
cigarette taxes and neither wholesalers nor retailers will
have to precollect taxes on cigarettes destined for their consumption. While the possibility of an inadequate quota may
provide the basis for a future challenge to the applicationof
the regulations, we are unwilling to assume, in the absence

76

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y. v.
MILHELM ATTEA & BROS.
Opinion of the Court

of any such showing by respondents, that New York will underestimate the legitimate demand for tax-free cigarettes.
The associated requirement that the Department preapprove
deliveries of tax-exempt cigarettes in order to ensure compliance with the quotas does not render the scheme facially
invalid. This procedure should not prove unduly 'burdensome absent wrongful withholding or delay of approvalproblems that can be addressed if and when they arise. See
Colville, 447 U. S., at 160 (burden of showing that tax enforcement scheme imposes excessive regulatory burdens is
on challenger).
New York's requirements that wholesalers sell untaxed
cigarettes only to persons who can produce valid exemption
certificates and that wholesalers maintain detailed records
on tax-exempt transactions likewise do not unduly interfere
with Indian trading. The recordkeeping requirements and
eligible buyer restrictions in the New York scheme are no
more demanding than the comparable measures we approved
in Colville. See n. 8, supra. Indeed, because wholesale
trade typically involves a comparatively small number of
large-volume sales, the transactional recordkeeping requirements imposed on Indian traders in this case are probably
less onerous than those imposed on retailers in Moe and Colville. By requiring wholesalers to precollect taxes on, and
affix stamps to, cigarettes destined for nonexempt consumers, New York has simply imposed on the wholesaler the
same precollection obligation that, under Moe and Colville,
may be imposed on reservation retailers. We therefore disagree with the Court of Appeals' conclusion that New York
has in this way "impose[d] a sales tax on Indian retailers."
81 N. Y. 2d, at 427, 615 N. E. 2d, at 998 (emphasis added).
Again assuming that the "probable demand" calculations
leave ample room for legitimately tax-exempt sales, the precollection regime will not require prepayment of any tax to
which New York is not entitled.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 61 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

The United States, as amicus supporting affirmance,
agrees with the Court of Appeals' alternative holding that
the New York scheme improperly burdens Indian trading.
In addition to the provisions disapproved by the Court of
Appeals, the United States attacks the requirement that reservation retailers obtain state tax exemption certificates on
the ground that it invades the BIA's "sole power and authority" to appoint Indian traders. We do not, however, understand the regulations to do anything more than establish a
method of identifying those retailers who are already engaged in the business of selling cigarettes. At this stage,
we will not assume that the Department would refuse certification to any federally authorized trader or stultify tribal
economies by refusing certification to new reservation retailers. Indeed, the Department assures us that certification
is "virtually automatic" upon submission of an application.
Reply Brief for Petitioners 5 (citing 20 N. Y. C. R. R.
§ 336.6(f)(1) (1992)).
The United States also objects to the provisions for establishing "trade territories" and allocating each reservation's
overall quota among its retail outlets. Depending upon how
they are applied in particular circumstances, these provisions may present significant problems to be addressed in
some future proceeding. However, the record before us furnishes no basis for identifying or evaluating any such problem. Agreements between the Department and individual
tribes might avoid or resolve problems that are now purely
hypothetical. 1 Possible problems involving the allocation of
"Amicus the Seneca Nation argues that New York's cigarette tax regulations violate treaties between it and the United States insofar as the
regulations allow New York to tax any transactions occurring on Seneca
tribal lands. See Brief for Seneca Nation of Indians as Amicus Curiae
18-26; but see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 21-24. We do
not address this contention, which differs markedly from respondents'
position and which was not addressed by the Court of Appeals. See
United Parcel Service, Inc. v. Mitchell, 451 U. S. 56, 60, n. 2 (1981).

78

DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND FINANCE OF N. Y. v.
MILHELM ATIEA & BROS.
Opinion of the Court

cigarettes among reservation retailers would not necessarily
threaten any harm to respondent wholesalers, whose main
interest lies in selling the maximum number of cigarettes,
however ultimately allocated.
Because we conclude that New York's cigarette tax enforcement regulations do not, on their face, violate the Indian
Trader Statutes, the judgment of the New York Court of
Appeals is reversed.
It is so ordered.

