OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC., ET AL. v. HEALY,
COMMISSIONER OF MASSACHUSETTS DEPARTMENT OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF
MASSACHUSETTS
No. 93-141. Argued March 2, 1994-Decided June 17, 1994
A Massachusetts pricing order subjects all fluid milk sold by dealers to
Massachusetts retailers to an assessment. Although most of that milk
is produced out of State, the entire assessment is distributed to Massachusetts dairy farmers. Petitioners-licensed dealers who purchase
milk produced by out-of-state farmers and sell it within Massachusetts-sued to enjoin enforcement of the order on the ground that it
violated the Federal Commerce Clause, but the state court denied relief
The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts affirmed, concluding that
the order was not facially discriminatory, applied evenhandedly, and only
incidentally burdened interstate commerce, and that such burden was
outweighed by the "local benefits" to the dairy industry.
Held: The pricing order unconstitutionally discriminates against interstate commerce. Pp. 192-207.
(a) The order is clearly unconstitutional under this Court's decisions
invalidating state laws designed to benefit local producers of goods by
creating tariff-like barriers that neutralized the competitive and economic advantages possessed by lower cost out-of-state producers. See,
e. g., Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias,468 U. S. 263. The "premium payments" are effectively a tax making milk produced out of State more
expensive. Although that tax also applies to milk produced in Massachusetts, its effect on Massachusetts producers is entirely (indeed more
than) offset by the subsidy provided exclusively to Massachusetts dairy
farmers, who are thereby empowered to sell at or below the price
charged by lower cost out-of-state producers. Pp. 192-197.
(b) Respondent's principal argument-that, because both the localsubsidy and nondiscriminatory-tax components of the order are valid,
the combination of the two is equally valid-is rejected. Even granting
respondent's assertion that both components of the pricing order would
be constitutional standing alone, the order must still fall because it is
funded principally from taxes on the sale of milk produced in other
States and therefore burdens interstate commerce. More fundamentally, the argument is logically flawed in its assumption that the lawfulness of each of two acts establishes the legality of their combination.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Syllabus
Indeed, by conjoining a tax and a subsidy, Massachusetts has created a
program more dangerous to interstate commerce than either part alone:
The Commonwealth's political processes cannot be relied on to prevent
legislative abuse where dairy farmers, one of the powerful in-state interests that would ordinarily be expected to lobby against the order
premium as a tax raising milk prices, have been mollified by the subsidy. Pp. 198-202.
(c) Respondent's second argument-that the order is not discriminatory because the dealers who pay premiums are not competitors of the
farmers who receive disbursements-cannot withstand scrutiny. The
imposition of a differential burden on any part of the stream of commerce-from wholesaler to retailer to consumer-is invalid because a
burden placed at any point will result in a disadvantage to the out-ofstate producer. Pp. 202-203.
(d) If accepted, respondent's third argument-that the order is not
protectionist because the program's costs are borne only by Massachusetts dealers and consumers and its benefits are distributed exclusively
to Massachusetts farmers-would undermine almost every discriminatory tax case. State taxes are ordinarily paid by in-state businesses
and consumers, yet if they discriminate against out-of-state products
they are unconstitutional. More fundamentally, the argument ignores
the fact that Massachusetts dairy farmers are part of an integrated interstate market. The obvious impact of the order on out-of-state production demonstrates that it is simply wrong to assume that it burdens
only in-state consumers and dealers. Pp. 203-204.
(e) Acceptance of respondent's final argument-that the order's incidental burden on commerce is justified by the local benefit of saving the
financially distressed dairy industry-would make a virtue of the vice
that the rule against discrimination condemns. Preservation of local
industry by protecting it from the rigors of interstate competition is
the hallmark of the economic protectionism that the Commerce Clause
prohibits. Pp. 204-207.
415 Mass. 8, 611 N. E. 2d 239, reversed.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which O'CONNOR,
SOUTER, and GINSBURG, JJ., joined. SCALIA, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which THoMAs, J., joined, post, p. 207.
REHNQUIST, C. J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which BLACKMUN, J.,
joined, post, p. 212.
KENNEDY,

Steven J. Rosenbaum argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were Michael L. Altman and Robert
A. Long, Jr.

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

Douglas H. Wilkins, Assistant Attorney General of Massachusetts, argued the cause for respondent. With him on
the brief were Scott Harshbarger,Attorney General, and
Eric E. Smith, Assistant Attorney General.*
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.
A Massachusetts pricing order imposes an assessment on
all fluid milk sold by dealers to Massachusetts retailers.
About two-thirds of that milk is produced out of State. The
entire assessment, however, is distributed to Massachusetts
dairy farmers. The question presented is whether the pricing order unconstitutionally discriminates against interstate
commerce. We hold that it does.

Petitioner West Lynn Creamery, Inc., is a milk dealer licensed to do business in Massachusetts. It purchases raw
milk, which it processes, packages, and sells to wholesalers,
retailers, and other milk dealers. About 97% of the raw
milk it purchases is produced by out-of-state farmers. Petitioner LeComte's Dairy, Inc., is also a licensed Massachusetts
milk dealer. It purchases all of its milk from West Lynn and
distributes it to retail outlets in Massachusetts.
Since 1937, the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act, 50
Stat. 246, as amended, 7 U. S. C. §601 et seq., has authorized
the Secretary of Agriculture to regulate the minimum prices
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Cumberland
Farms, Inc., by Allan Afrow; and for the Milk Industry Foundation et al.
by Steven J. Rosenbaum and Robert A. Long, Jr.

Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of New
Jersey by Fred DeVesa, Acting Attorney General, Mary Carol Jacobson,
Assistant Attorney General, and Gregory Romano, Deputy Attorney
General; and for the Massachusetts Association of Dairy Farmers et al.
by Erwin N. Griswold, Gregory A Castanias,and Allen Tupper Brown.

Jeffrey L. Amestoy, Attorney General of Vermont, and Eileen I. Elliott,
Assistant Attorney General, filed a brief of amicus curiae for the State
of Vermont.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

paid to producers of raw milk by issuing marketing orders
for particular geographic areas.' While the Federal. Government sets minimum prices based on local conditions,
those prices have not been so high as to prevent substantial competition among producers in different States. In the
1980's and early 1990's, Massachusetts dairy farmers began
to lose market share to lower cost producers in neighboring
States. In response, the Governor of Massachusetts appointed a Special Commission to study the dairy industry.
The commission found that many producers had sold their
dairy farms during the past decade and that if prices paid
to farmers for their milk were not significantly increased, a
majority of the remaining farmers in Massachusetts would
be "forced out of business within the year." App. 13. On
January 28, 1992, relying on the commission's report, the
Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Food and
Agriculture (respondent) declared a State of Emergency.
'The minimum price is a "blend price" that is determined, in part, by
the ultimate use of the raw milk. See 7 CFR § 1001.1 et seq. (1993). Raw
milk used to produce fluid milk products has the highest price and is characterized in the federal order as "Class I" milk. Milk used for other products, such as eggnog, sour cream, and hard cheese, bears a lower price and
is characterized as "Class II" and "Class III' milk. Each dealer is required to fie a monthly report of its raw milk purchases and the use to
which that milk is put. In computing the monthly blend price, the Federal Market Administrator calculates the weighted average price of the
various classes of milk. If Class I milk predominates in the dealer reports, the blend price is high; if other classes predominate, the blend price
is lower. Although all of the farmers are paid the same minimum blend
price regardless of the use to which their milk is put, dealers who sell
more than an average amount of Class I products pay a higher per unit
price than those with relatively lower Class I sales. The federal marketing order thus provides a uniform blend price for sellers of raw milk while
imposing nonuniform payment obligations on the dealers purchasing that
milk. The federal order does not prohibit the*payment of prices higher
than the established minima. Like the federal order, the Massachusetts
order requires dealers to make payments into a fund that is disbursed to
farmers on a monthly basis. The assessments, however, are only on Class
I sales and the distributions are only to Massachusetts farmers.

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

In his declaration he noted that the average federal blend
price2 had declined from $14.67 per hundred pounds (cwt)
of raw milk in 1990 to $12.64/cwt in 1991, while costs of production for Massachusetts farmers had risen to an estimated
average of $15.50/cwt. Id., at 27. He concluded:
"Regionally, the industry is in serious trouble and ultimately, a federal solution will be required. In the
meantime, we must act on the state level to preserve
our local industry, maintain reasonable minimum prices
for the dairy farmers, thereby ensure a continuous and
adequate supply of fresh milk for our market, and protect the public health." Id., at 31.
Promptly after his declaration of emergency, respondent issued the pricing order that is challenged in this proceeding. 3
The order requires every "dealer"' 4 in Massachusetts to
make a monthly "premium payment" into the "Massachusetts Dairy Equalization Fund." The amount of those payments is computed in two steps. First, the monthly "order
premium" is determined by subtracting the federal blend
price for that month from $15 and dividing the difference by
three; thus if the federal price is $12/cwt, the order premium
is $1/cwt. 5 Second, the premium is multiplied by the amount
2For an

explanation of the term "blend price," see the previous footnote.
gThe order was first issued on February 18, 1992, and amended on
February 26, 1992. App. 32-40; Brief for Respondent 4-5. Only the

amended order is at issue in this case.

4
A "dealer" is defined as "any person who is engaged within the Commonwealth in the business of receiving, purchasing, pasteurizing, bottling,
processing, distributing, or otherwise handling milk, purchases or receives
milk for sale as the consignee or agent of a producer, and shall include a
producer-dealer, dealer-retailer, and sub-dealer." App. 32-33.
5 App. 35-36; West Lynn
Creamery, Inc. v. Commissioner of Dept. of
Food and Agriculture, 415 Mass. 8, 11, n. 10, 611 N. E. 2d 239, 241, n. 10
(1993). The commissioner appears to have set the order premium at only
a third of the difference between the federal price and $15 because Massachusetts farmers produce only about one-third of the milk sold as fluid
milk in the State. App. 21. Since Massachusetts dairy farmers produce

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

(in pounds) of the dealer's Class 16 sales in Massachusetts.
Each month the fund is distributed to Massachusetts producers.7 Each Massachusetts producer receives a share of the
total fund equal to his proportionate
contribution to the
8
State's total production of raw milk.
Petitioners West Lynn and LeComte's complied with the
pricing order for two months, paying almost $200,000 into
the Massachusetts Dairy Equalization Fund. Id., at 100,
105. Starting in July 1992, however, petitioners refused to
make the premium payments, and respondent commenced license revocation proceedings. Petitioners then filed an action in state court seeking an injunction against enforcement
of the order on the ground that it violated the Commerce
Clause of the Federal Constitution. The state court denied
relief and respondent conditionally revoked their licenses.
The parties agreed to an expedited appellate procedure,
and the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts transferred the cases to its own docket. It affirmed, because it
concluded that "the pricing order does not discriminate on its
face, is evenhanded in its application, and only incidentally
one-third of the milk, an assessment of one-third the difference between
$15 and the federal minimum price generates enough revenue to give Massachusetts dairy farmers the entire difference between $15 and the federal
minimum price without leaving any surplus. By paying Massachusetts
dairy farmers the entire difference between $15 and the federal minimum
price, the order premium allows Massachusetts farmers whose cost of production is $15/cwt to sell their milk without loss at the federal minimum
price.
6 For an explanation of the term "Class I," see n. 1, supra.
A "producer" is defined as "any person producing milk from dairy
cattle." App. 33.
SThe disbursement is subject to two qualifications. First, any farmer
who produced more than 200,000 pounds of milk is considered to have
produced only 200,000 pounds. Second, no producer may receive payments that make its net price per cwt (including both the federal minimum
price and payments from the Equalization Fund) higher than $15/cwt. If
these limitations lead to a surplus in the Dairy Equalization Fund, the
surplus is returned to the dealers. Id., at 36-38.

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

burdens interstate commerce." West Lynn Creamery, Inc.
v. Commissioner of Dept. of Food and Agriculture, 415
Mass. 8, 15, 611 N. E. 2d 239, 243 (1993). The court noted
that the "pricing order was designed to aid only Massachusetts producers." Id., at 16, 611 N. E. 2d, at 244. It conceded that "[c]ommon sense" indicated that the plan has an
"adverse impact on interstate commerce" and that "[t]he
fund distribution scheme does burden out-of-State producers." Id., at 17, 611 N. E. 2d, at 244. Nevertheless, the
court asserted that "the burden is incidental given the purpose and design of the program." Id., at 18, 611 N. E. 2d,
at 244. Because it found that the "local benefits" provided
to the Commonwealth's dairy industry "outweigh any incidental burden on interstate commerce," it sustained the constitutionality of the pricing order. Id., at 19, 611 N. E. 2d,
at 245. We granted certiorari, 510 U. S. 811 (1993), and
now reverse.
II
The Commerce Clause vests Congress with ample power
to enact legislation providing for the regulation of prices
paid to farmers for their products. United States v. Darby,
312 U. S. 100 (1941); Wickard v. Filburn,317 U. S. 111 (1942);
Mandeville Island Farms, Inc. v. American Crystal Sugar
Co., 334 U. S. 219 (1948). An affirmative exercise of that
power led to the promulgation of the federal order setting
minimum milk prices. The Commerce Clause also limits
the power of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to adopt
regulations that discriminate against interstate commerce.
"This 'negative' aspect of the Commerce Clause prohibits
economic protectionism-that is, regulatory measures designed to benefit in-state economic interests by burdening
out-of-state competitors.... Thus, state statutes that clearly
discriminate against interstate commerce are routinely
struck down ... unless the discrimination is demonstrably
justified by a valid factor unrelated to economic protection-

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

ism...." New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, 486 U. S.
269, 273-274 (1988). 9
The paradigmatic example of a law discriminating against
interstate commerce is the protective tariff or customs duty,
which taxes goods imported from other States, but does not
tax similar products produced in State. A tariff is an attractive measure because it simultaneously raises revenue and
benefits local producers by burdening their out-of-state competitors. Nevertheless, it violates the principle of the unitary national market by handicapping out-of-state competitors, thus artificially encouraging in-state production even
when the same goods could be produced at lower cost in
other States.
Because of their distorting effects on the geography of
production, tariffs have long been recognized as violative of
the Commerce Clause. In fact, tariffs against the products
of other States are so patently unconstitutional that our
cases reveal not a single attempt by any State to enact one.
Instead, the cases are filled with state laws that aspire to
reap some of the benefits of tariffs by other means. In
Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S.511 (1935), the
State of New York attempted to protect its dairy farmers
from the adverse effects of Vermont competition by establishing a single minimum price for all milk, whether
produced in New York or elsewhere. This Court did not
hesitate, however, to strike it down. Writing for a unanimous Court, Justice Cardozo reasoned:
9The "negative" aspect of the Commerce Clause was considered the
more important by the "father of the Constitution," James Madison. In

one of his letters, Madison wrote that the Commerce Clause "grew out of
the abuse of the power by the importing States in taxing the nonimporting, and was intended as a negative and preventive provision
against injustice among the States themselves, rather than as a power to
be used for the positive purposes of the General Government." 3 M. Farrand, Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, p. 478 (1911).

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

"Neither the power to tax nor the police power may be
used by the state of destination with the aim and effect
of establishing an economic barrier against competition
with the products of another state or the labor of its
residents. Restrictions so contrived are an unreasonable clog upon the mobility of commerce. They set up
what is equivalent to a rampart of customs duties designed to neutralize advantages belonging to the place
of origin." Id., at 527.
Thus, because the minimum price regulation had the same
effect as a tariff or customs duty-neutralizing the advantage possessed by lower cost out-of-state producers-it was

held uneongtitutional. Similarly, in Bacchus Imports, Ltd.
v. Dias, 468 U. S. 263 (1984), this Court invalidated a law
which advantaged local production by granting a tax exemption to certain liquors produced in Hawaii. Other cases of
this kind are legion. Welton v. Missouri,91 U. S. 275 (1876);
Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434 (1880); Toomer v. Witsell,
334 U. S. 385 (1948); Polar Ice Cream & Creamery Co. v.
Andrews, 375 U. S. 361 (1964); Chemical Waste Management,
Inc. v. Hunt, 504 U. S. 334 (1992); see also Hunt v. Washington State Apple Advertising Comm'n, 432 U. S. 333, 351
(1977) (invalidating statute, because it "has the effect of
stripping away from the Washington apple industry the competitive and economic advantages it has earned").
Under these cases, Massachusetts' pricing order is clearly
unconstitutional. Its avowed purpose and its undisputed effect are to enable higher cost Massachusetts dairy farmers
to compete with lower cost dairy farmers in other States.
The "premium payments" are effectively a tax which makes
milk produced out of State more expensive. Although the
tax also applies to milk produced in Massachusetts, its effect
on Massachusetts producers is entirely (indeed more than)
offset by the subsidy provided exclusively to Massachusetts
dairy farmers. Like an ordinary tariff, the tax is thus effectively imposed only on out-of-state products. The pricing

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

order thus allows Massachusetts dairy farmers who produce
at higher cost to sell at or below the price charged by lower
cost out-of-state producers.' 0 If there were no federal minimum prices for milk, out-of-state producers might still be
able to retain their market share by lowering their prices.
Nevertheless, out-of-staters' ability to remain competitive by
lowering their prices would not immunize a discriminatory
measure. New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, 486 U. S., at
275.1" In this case, because the Federal Government sets
"'Anumerical example may make this effect clearer. Suppose the federal minimum price is $12/cwt, that out-of-state producers can sell milk
profitably at that price, but that in-state producers need a price of $15/cwt
in order to break even. Under the pricing order, the tax or "order premium" will be $1/cwt (one-third the difference between the $15/cwt target
price and the $12/cwt federal minimum price). Assuming the tax generates sufficient funds (which will be the case as long as two-thirds of the
milk is produced out of State, which appears to be the case), the Massachusetts farmers will receive a subsidy of $3/cwt. This subsidy will allow
them to lower their prices from $15/cwt to $12/cwt while still breaking
even. Selling at $12/cwt, Massachusetts dairy farmers will now be able
to compete with out-of-state producers. The net effect of the tax and
subsidy, like that of a tariff, is to raise the after-tax price paid by the
dealers. If exactly two-thirds of the milk sold in Massachusetts is
produced out of State, net prices will rise by $1/cwt. If out-of-state farmers produce more than two-thirds of the raw milk, the Dairy Equalization
Fund will have a surplus, which will be refunded to the milk dealers.
This refund will mitigate the price increase, although it will have no effect
on the ability of the program to enable higher cost Massachusetts dairy
farmers to compete with lower cost out-of-staters.
1 In New Energy, 486 U. S., at 275, we noted: "It is true that in [Great
Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Cottrell, 424 U. S.366 (1976),] and Sporhase
[v. Nebraska ex rel. Douglas, 458 U. S. 941 (1982),] the effect of a State's
refusal to accept the offered reciprocity was total elimination of all transport of the subject product into or out of the offering State; whereas in
the present case the only effect of refusal is that the out-of-state product
is placed at a substantial commercial disadvantage through discriminatory
tax treatment. That makes no difference for purposes of Commerce
Clause analysis. In the leading case of Baldwin v. G. A F. Seelig, Inc.,
294 U. S.511 (1935), the New York law excluding out-of-state milk did not
impose an absolute ban, but rather allowed importation and sale so long

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

minimum prices, out-of-state producers may not even have
the option of reducing prices in order to retain market share.
The Massachusetts pricing order thus will almost certainly

iicause local gooda to eongtituta a larger share, and goods

with an out-of-state source to constitute a smaller share, of
the total sales in the market." 12 Exxon Corp. v. Governor
of Maryland, 437 U. S. 117, 126, n. 16 (1978). In fact, this
effect was the motive behind the promulgation of the pricing
order. This effect renders the program unconstitutional, because it, like a tariff, "neutraliz[es] advantages belonging to
the place of origin." Baldwin, 294 U. S., at 527.
In some ways, the Massachusetts pricing order is most
similar to the law at issue in Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias,
468 U. S. 263 (1984). Both involve a broad-based tax on a
single kind of good and special provisions for in-state producas the initial purchase from the dairy farmer was made at or above the
New York State-mandated price. In other words, just as the appellant
here, in order to sell its product in Ohio, only has to cut its profits by
reducing its sales price below the market price sufficiently to compensate
the Ohio purchaser-retailer for the forgone tax credit, so also the milk
wholesaler-distributor in Baldwin, in order to sell its product in New
York, only had to cut its profits by increasing its purchase price above the
market price sufficiently to meet the New York-prescribed premium. We
viewed the New York law as 'an economic barrier against competition'
that was 'equivalent to a rampart of customs duties.' Id., at 527."
12 That is not to say that the Massachusetts dairy industry may not continue to shrink and that the market share of Massachusetts dairy producers may not continue its fall. It may be the case that Massachusetts producers' costs are so high that, even with the pricing order, many of them
will be unable to compete. Nevertheless, the pricing order will certainly
allow more Massachusetts dairy farmers to remain in business than would
have had the pricing order not been imposed. For Commerce Clause
purposes, it does not matter whether the challenged regulation actually
increases the market share of local producers or whether it merely mitigates a projected decline. See Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias, 468 U. S.
263, 272 (1984) ("[W]e perceive no principle of Commerce Clause jurisprudence supporting a distinction between thriving and struggling
enterprises.. ."); Baldwin v. G. A F Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S., at 523.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

ers. Bacchus involved a 20% excise tax on all liquor sales,
coupled with an exemption for fruit wine manufactured in
Hawaii and for okolehao, a brandy distilled from the root of
a shrub indigenous to Hawaii. The Court held that Hawaii's
law was unconstitutional because it "had both the purpose
and effect of discriminating in favor of local products." Id.,
at 273. See also I. M. Darnell & Son Co. v. Memphis, 208
U. S. 113 (1908) (invalidating property tax exemption favoring local manufacturers). By granting a tax exemption for
local products, Hawaii in effect created a protective tariff.
Goods produced out of State were taxed, but those produced
in State were subject to no net tax. It is obvious that the
result in Bacchus would have been the same if instead of
exempting certain Hawaiian liquors from tax, Hawaii had
rebated the amount of tax collected from the sale of those
liquors. See New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, 486 U. S.
269 (1988) (discriminatory tax credit). And if a discriminatory tax rebate is unconstitutional, Massachusetts' pricing
order is surely invalid; for Massachusetts not only rebates to
domestic milk producers the tax paid on the sale of Massachusetts milk, but also the tax paid on the sale of 'milk
produced elsewhere. 3 The additional rebate of the tax paid
on the sale of milk produced elsewhere in no way reduces
the danger to the national market posed by tariff-like barriers, but instead exacerbates the danger by giving domestic
producers an additional tool with which to shore up their
14
competitive position.
Is Indeed, it is this aspect of the pricing order which allows it to give
Massachusetts farmers a benefit three times as valuable per cwt as the
tax (order premium) imposed. See n. 5, supra.
14One might attempt to distinguish Bacchus by noting that the rebate
in this case goes not to the entity which pays the tax (milk dealers) but to

the dairy farmers themselves. Rebating the taxes-directly to producers
rather than to the dealers, however, merely reinforces the conclusion that
the pricing order will favor local producers. If the taxes were refunded
only to the dealers, there might be no impact on interstate commerce,

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

III
Respondent advances four arguments against the conclusion that its pricing order imposes an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce: (A) Because each component of
the program-a local subsidy and a nondiscriminatory taxis valid, the combination of the two is equally valid; (B) The
dealers who pay the order premiums (the tax) are not competitors of the farmers who receive disbursements from the
Dairy Equalization Fund, so the pricing order is not discriminatory; (C) The pricing order is not protectionist, because
the costs of the program are borne only by Massachusetts
dealers and consumers, and the benefits are distributed exclusively to Massachusetts farmers; and (D) The order's incidental burden on commerce is justified by the local benefit
of saving the dairy industry from collapse. We discuss each
of these arguments in turn.
A
Respondent's principal argument is that, because "the
milk order achieves its goals through lawful means," the
order as a whole is constitutional. Brief for Respondent 20.
He argues that the payments to Massachusetts dairy farmers
from the Dairy Equalization Fund are valid, because subsidies are constitutional exercises of state power, and that the
order premium which provides money for the fund is valid,
because it is a nondiscriminatory tax. Therefore the pricing
order is constitutional, because it is merely the combination
of two independently lawful regulations. In effect, respondent argues, if the State may impose a valid tax on dealers,
it is free to use the proceeds of the tax as it chooses; and
because the dealers might not use the funds to increase the price or quantity of milk purchased from Massachusetts dairy farmers. The refund to
the dealers might, therefore, result in no advantage to in-state producers.
On the other hand, by refunding moneys directly to the dairy farmers, the
pricing order ensures that Massachusetts producers will benefit.

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

if it may independently subsidize its farmers, it is free to
finance the subsidy by means of any legitimate tax.
Even granting respondent's assertion that both components of the pricing order would be constitutional standing
alone, 15 the pricing order nevertheless must fall. A pure
subsidy funded out of general revenue ordinarily imposes no
burden on interstate commerce, but merely assists local business. The pricing order in this case, however, is funded
principally from taxes on the sale of milk produced in other
States. 16 By so funding the subsidy, respondent not only assists local farmers, but burdens interstate commerce. The
pricing order thus violates the cardinal principle that a State
may not "benefit in-state economic interests by burdening
out-of-state competitors." New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, 486 U. S., at 273-274; see also Bacchus Imports, Ltd.
v. Dias, 468 U. S., at 272; Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S., at 443.
More fundamentally, respondent errs in assuming that the
constitutionality of the pricing order follows logically from
the constitutionality of its component parts. By conjoining
16 We have never squarely confronted the constitutionality of subsidies,
and we need not do so now. We have, however, noted that "[d]irect subsidization of domestic industry does not ordinarily run afoul" of the negative
Commerce Clause. New Energy Co. of Ind.v. Limbach, 486 U. S. 269, 278
(1988); see also Hughes v. Alexandria Scrap Corp., 426 U. S. 794, 815
(1976) (STEVENS, J., concurring). In addition, it is undisputed that States
may try to attract business by creating an environment conducive to economic activity, as by maintaining good roads, sound public education, or
low taxes. Zobel v. Williams, 457 U. S. 55, 67 (1982) (Brennan, J., concurring); Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias, 468 U. S., at 271; MetropolitanLife
Ins.
Co. v. Ward, 470 U. S.869, 876-878 (1985).
16
Itis undisputed that an overwhelming majority of the milk sold in
Massachusetts is produced elsewhere. Thus, even though the tax is applied evenhandedly to milk produced in State and out of State, most of the
tax collected comes from taxes on milk from other States. In addition,
the tax on in-state milk, unlike that imposed on out-of-state milk, does not
impose any burden on in-state producers, because in-state dairy farmers
can be confident that the taxes paid on their milk will be returned to them
via the Dairy Equalization Fund.

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

a tax and a subsidy, Massachusetts has created a program
more dangerous to interstate commerce than either part
alone. Nondiscriminatory measures, like the evenhanded
tax at issue here, are generally upheld, in spite of any adverse effects on interstate commerce, in part because "[tihe
existence of major in-state interests adversely affected ...
is a powerful safeguard against legislative abuse." Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Co., 449 U. S. 456, 473, n. 17
(1981); see also Raymond Motor Transp., Inc. v. Rice, 434
U. S. 429, 444, n. 18 (1978) (special deference to state highway
regulations because "their burden usually falls on local economic interests as well as other States' economic interests,
thus insuring that a State's own political processes will serve
as a check against unduly burdensome regulations"); South
Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Brothers, Inc., 303
U. S. 177, 187 (1938); Goldberg v. Sweet, 488 U. S. 252, 266
(1989).17 However, when a nondiscriminatory tax is coupled
with a subsidy to one of the groups hurt by the tax, a State's
political processes can no longer be relied upon to prevent
legislative abuse, because one of the in-state interests which
would otherwise lobby against the tax has been mollified by
the subsidy. So, in this case, one would ordinarily have expected at least three groups to lobby against the order premium, which, as a tax, raises the price (and hence lowers
demand) for milk: dairy farmers, milk dealers, and consumers. But because the tax was coupled with a subsidy, one
of the most powerful of these groups, Massachusetts dairy
17The same principle is recognized in the conceptually similar field of
intergovernmental taxation, where nondiscrimination also plays a central
role in setting the boundary between the permissible and the impermissible. Washington v. United States, 460 U. S. 536, 545 (1983) ("A 'political
check' is provided when a state tax falls on a significant group of state
citizens who can be counted upon to use their votes to keep the State from
raising the tax excessively, and thus placing an unfair burden on the Federal Government"); South Carolinav. Baker, 485 U. S. 505, 525-526, n. 15
(1988); United States v. County of Fresno, 429 U. S. 452, 462-464 (1977).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

farmers, instead of exerting their influence against the tax,
were in fact its primary supporters. 8
Respondent's argument would require us to analyze separately two parts of an integrated regulation, but we cannot
divorce the premium payments from the use to which the
payments are put. It is the entire program-not just the
contributions to the fund or the distributions from that
fund-that simultaneously burdens interstate commerce and
discriminates in favor of local producers. The choice of
constitutional means-nondiscriminatory tax and local subsidy-cannot guarantee the constitutionality of the program
as a whole. New York's minimum price order also used constitutional means-a State's power to regulate prices-but
was held unconstitutional because of its deleterious effects.
Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511 (1935). Similarly, the law held unconstitutional in Bacchus Imports, Ltd.
v. Dias,468 U. S. 263 (1984), involved the exercise of Hawaii's
undisputed power to tax and to grant tax exemptions.
Our Commerce Clause jurisprudence is not so rigid as to
be controlled by the form by which a State erects barriers
to commerce. Rather our cases have eschewed formalism
for a sensitive, case-by-case analysis of purposes and effects.
As the Court declared over 50 years ago: "The commerce
clause forbids discrimination, whether forthright or ingenious. In each case it is our duty to determine whether the
statute under attack, whatever its name may be, will in
its practical operation work discrimination against interstate commerce." Best & Co. v. Maxwell, 311 U. S. 454, 455456 (1940); Maryland v. Louisiana,451 U. S. 725, 756 (1981);
the Governor's Special Commission Relative to the Establishment
of a Dairy Stabilization Fund realized, consumers would be unlikely to
organize effectively to oppose the pricing order. The commission's report
remarked, "the estimated two cent increase per quart of milk would not
be noticed by the consuming public," App. 18, because the price of milk
varies so often and for so many reasons that consumers would be unlikely
to feel the price increases or to attribute them to the pricing order.
18As

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY

Opinion of the Court

Exxon Corp. v. Governor of Maryland, 437 U. S., at 147;
see also Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S., at 443 (invalidating discriminatory wharfage fees which were "mere expedient or device to accomplish, by indirection, what the State
could not accomplish by a direct tax, viz., build up its domestic commerce by means of unequal and oppressive burdens
upon the industry and business of other States"); Baldwin
v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S., at 527 ("What is ultimate
is the principle that one state in its dealings with another
may not put itself in a position of economic isolation. Formulas and catchwords are subordinate to this overmastering requirement"); Dean Milk Co. v. Madison, 340 U. S.
349, 354 (1951); New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, 486 U. S.,
at 275, 276 (invalidating reciprocal tax credit because it,
"in effect, tax[es] a product made by [Indiana] manufacturers at a rate higher than the same product made by Ohio
manufacturers").
B
Respondent also argues that since the Massachusetts milk
dealers who pay the order premiums are not competitors of
the Massachusetts farmers, the pricing order imposes no discriminatory burden on commerce. Brief for Respondent 2829. This argument cannot withstand scrutiny. Is it possible to doubt that if Massachusetts imposed a higher sales tax
on milk produced in Maine than milk produced in Massachusetts that the tax would be struck down, in spite of the fact
that the sales tax was imposed on consumers, and consumers
-do not compete with dairy farmers? For over 150 years, our
cases have rightly concluded that the imposition of a differential burden on any part of the stream of commerce-from
wholesaler to retailer to consumer-is invalid, because a burden placed at any point will result in a disadvantage to the
out-of-state producer. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419,
444, 448 (1827) ("So, a tax on the occupation of an importer
is, in like manner, a tax on importation. It must add to the
price of the article, and be paid by the consumer, or by the

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

importer himself, in like manner as a direct duty on the article itself would be made." "The distinction between a tax
on the thing imported, and on the person of the importer,
can have no influence on this part of the subject. It is too
obvious for controversy, that they interfere equally with the
power to regulate commerce"); I. M. Darnell & Son Co. v.
Memphis, 208 U. S. 113 (1908) (differential burden on intermediate stage manufacturer); Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias,
468 U. S. 263 (1984) (differential burden on wholesaler); Webber v. Virginia, 103 U. S.344, 350 (1881) (differential burden
on sales agent); New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, 486
U. S., at 273-274 (differential burden on retailer).
C
Respondent also argues that "the operation of the Order
disproves any claim of protectionism," because "only in-state
consumers feel the effect of any retail price increase . ..
[and] [t]he dealers themselves ... have a substantial in-state

presence." Brief for Respondent 17 (emphasis in original).
This argument, if accepted, would undermine almost every
discriminatory tax case. State taxes are ordinarily paid by
in-state businesses and consumers, yet if they discriminate
against out-of-state products, they are unconstitutional.
The idea that a discriminatory tax does not interfere with
interstate commerce "merely because the burden of the tax
was borne by consumers" in the taxing State was thoroughly
repudiated in Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias, 468 U. S., at
272. The cost of a tariff is also borne primarily by local
consumers, yet a tariff is the paradigmatic Commerce
Clause violation.
More fundamentally, respondent ignores the fact that
Massachusetts dairy farmers are part of an integrated interstate market. As noted supra, at 194-196, the purpose
and effect of the pricing order are to divert market share
to Massachusetts dairy farmers. This diversion necessarily
injures the dairy farmers in neighboring States. Further-

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

more, the Massachusetts order regulates a portion of the
same interstate market in milk that is more broadly regulated by a federal milk marketing order which covers most of
New England. 7 CFR § 1001.2 (1993). The Massachusetts
producers who deliver milk to dealers in that regulated market are participants in the same interstate milk market as
the out-of-state producers who sell in the same market and
are guaranteed the same minimum blend price by the federal
order. The fact that the Massachusetts order imposes assessments only on Massachusetts sales and distributes them
only to Massachusetts producers does not exclude either the
assessments or the payments from the interstate market.
To the extent that those assessments affect the relative volume of Class I milk products sold in the marketing area as
compared to other classes of milk products, they necessarily
affect the blend price payable even to out-of-state producers
who sell only in non-Massachusetts markets. 19 The obvious
impact of the order on out-of-state production demonstrates
that it is simply wrong to assume that the pricing order burdens only Massachusetts consumers and dealers.
D
Finally, respondent argues that any incidental burden on
interstate commerce "isoutweighed by the 'local benefits' of
preserving the Massachusetts dairy industry." 2° Brief for
'9On the way changing the demand for Class I milk products changes
the blend price for producers in the entire area covered by the marketing
order, see n. 1, supra.

20Among the "local benefits" that respondent identifies is "protecting
unique open space and related benefits." Brief for Respondent 40. As
the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court recognized by relegating the
"open space" point to a single footnote, West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v. Commissioner of Dept. of Food and Agriculture, 415 Mass. 8, 10, n. 6, 611
N. E. 2d 239, 240, n. 6 (1993), the argument that environmental benefits
were central and the enhancement of the market share of Massachusetts
dairy farmers merely "incidental" turns the pricing order on its head.

In

addition, even if environmental preservation were the central purpose of

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

Respondent 42. In a closely related argument, respondent
urges that "the purpose of the order, to save an industry
from collapse, is not protectionist." Id., at 16. If we were
to accept these arguments, we would make a virtue of the
vice that the rule against discrimination condemns. Preservation of local industry by protecting it from the rigors of
interstate competition is the hallmark of the economic protectionism that the Commerce Clause prohibits. In Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias, 468 U. S., at 272, we explicitly
rejected any distinction "between thriving and struggling
enterprises." Whether a State is attempting to "'enhance
thriving and substantial business enterprises"' or to "'subsidize.., financially troubled"' ones is irrelevant to Commerce
Clause analysis. Ibid. With his characteristic eloquence,
Justice Cardozo responded to an argument that respondent
echoes today:
"The argument is pressed upon us, however, that the
end to be served by the Milk Control Act is something
more than the economic welfare of the farmers or of any
other class or classes. The end to be served is the maintenance of a regular and adequate supply of pure and
wholesome milk, the supply being put in jeopardy when
the pricing order, that would not be sufficient to uphold a discriminatory
regulation. See Philadelphia v. New Jersey, 437 U. S. 617, 626-627
(1978). Finally, the suggestion that the collapse of the dairy industry endangers open space is not self-evident. Dairy farms are enclosed by
fences, and the decline of farming may well lead to less, rather than more,
intensive land use. As one scholar noted: "Many people assume that...
land lost from agriculture is now in urban uses. It is true that some
agricultural land has been urbanized, especially since World War II, but
the major portion of the land moving out of agriculture over the years has
been abandoned to natural forest growth." J. Foster & W. MacConnell,
Agricultural Land Use Change in Massachusetts 1951-1971, p. 5 (Research
Bulletin No. 640, Jan. 1977); see also Department of Agriculture, A.
Daugherty, Major Uses of Land in the United States: 1987, pp. 4, 13 (Agricultural Economic Rep. No. 643, 1991) (decline in grazing and pasture
land offset by increased wilderness, wildlife, and park areas).

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
Opinion of the Court

the farmers of the state are unable to earn a living income. Nebbia v. New York, [291 U. S. 502 (1934)] ...
Let such an exception be admitted, and all that a state
will have to do in times of stress and strain is to say
that its farmers and merchants and workmen must be
protected against competition from without, lest they go
upon the poor relief lists or perish altogether. To give
entrance to that excuse would be to invite a speedy end
of our national solidarity. The Constitution was framed
under the dominion of a political philosophy less parochial in range. It was framed upon the theory that the
peoples of the several states must sink or swim together,
and that in the long run prosperity and salvation are in
union and not division." Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig,
Inc., 294 U. S., at 522-523.21
In a later case, also involving the welfare of Massachusetts
dairy farmers,2 Justice Jackson described the same overriding interest in the free flow of commerce across state lines:
"Our system, fostered by the Commerce Clause, is that
every farmer and every craftsman shall be encouraged
21

"This distinction between the power of the State to shelter its people
from menaces to their health or safety and from fraud, even when those
dangers emanate from interstate commerce, and its lack of power to retard, burden or constrict the flow of such commerce for their economic
advantage, is one deeply rooted in both our history and bur law."
H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc. v. Du Mond, 336 U. S. 525, 533 (1949); see also
Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias,468 U. S., at 272-273.
2 A surprisingly large number of our Commerce Clause cases arose out
of attempts to protect local dairy farmers. Schollenbergerv. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1 (1898); Baldwin v. G. A F Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511 (1935);
H. P Hood & Sons, Inc. v. Du Mond, 336 U. S., at 539; Dean Milk Co. v.
Madison, 340 U. S. 349, 354 (1951); Polar Ice Cream & Creamery Co. v.
Andrews, 375 U. S. 361 (1964); Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Cottrell,
424 U. S. 366 (1976). The reasons for the political effectiveness of milk
producers are explored in G. Miller, The Industrial Organization of Political Production: A Case Study, 149 J. Institutional & Theoretical Economics
769 (1993).

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment

to produce by the certainty that he will have free access
to every market in the Nation, that no home embargoes
will withhold his exports, and no foreign state will by
customs duties or regulations exclude them. Likewise,
every consumer may look to the free competition from
every producing area in the Nation to protect him from
exploitation by any. Such was the vision of the Founders; such has been the doctrine of this Court which has
given it reality." H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc. v. Du Mond,
336 U. S. 525, 539 (1949).
The judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts is reversed.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE SCALIA, with whom JUSTICE THOMAS joins,
concurring in the judgment.
In my view the challenged Massachusetts pricing order is
invalid under our negative-Commerce-Clause jurisprudence,
for the reasons explained in Part II below. I do not agree
with the reasons assigned by the Court, which seem to me,
as explained in Part I, a broad expansion of current law.
Accordingly, I concur only in the judgment of the Court.

I
The purpose of the negative Commerce Clause, we have
often said, is to create a national market. It does not follow
from that, however, and we have never held, that every state
law which obstructs a national market violates the Commerce Clause. Yet that is what the Court says today. It
seems to have canvassed the entire corpus of negativeCommerce-Clause opinions, culled out every free-market
snippet of reasoning, and melded them into the sweeping
principle that the Constitution is violated by any state law or
regulation that "artificially encourag[es] in-state production
even when the same goods could be produced at lower cost
in other States." Ante, at 193. See also ante, at 194 (the

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
SCALIA, J.,

concurring in judgment

law here is unconstitutional because it "neutraliz[es] the advantage possessed by lower cost out-of-state producers");
ante, at 195 (price order is unconstitutional because it allows
in-state producers "who produce at higher cost to sell at or
below the price charged by lower cost out-of-state producers"); ante, at 196 (a state program is unconstitutional where
it "'neutralizes advantages belonging to the place of origin' ") (quoting Baldwin v. G. A. F. Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511,
527 (1935)); ante, at 205 ("Preservation of local industry by

protecting it from the rigors of interstate competition is the
hallmark of the economic protectionism that the Commerce
Clause prohibits").
As the Court seems to. appreciate by its eagerness expressly to reserve the question of the constitutionality of
subsidies for in-state industry, ante, at 199, and n. 15, this
expansive view of the Commerce Clause calls into question
a wide variety of state laws that have hitherto been thought
permissible. It seems to me that a state subsidy would
clearly be invalid under any formulation of the Court's guiding principle identified above. The Court guardedly asserts
that a "pure subsidy funded out of general revenue ordinarily imposes no burden on interstate commerce, but
merely assists local business," ante, at 199 (emphasis added),
but under its analysis that must be taken to be true only
because most local businesses (e. g., the local hardware store)
are not competing with businesses out of State. The Court
notes that, in funding this subsidy, Massachusetts has taxed
milk produced in other States, and thus "not only assists
local farmers, but burdens interstate commerce." Ibid.
But the same could be said of almost all subsidies funded
from general state revenues, which almost invariably include
moneys from use taxes on out-of-state products. And even
where the funding does not come in any part from taxes on
out-of-state goods, "merely assist[ing]" in-state businesses,
ibid., unquestionably neutralizes advantages possessed by
out-of-state enterprises. Such subsidies, particularly where

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
SCALIA, J.,

concurring in judgment

they are in the form of cash or (what comeg to the rame
thing) tax forgiveness, are often admitted to have as their
purpose-indeed, are nationally advertised as having as
their purpose-making it more profitable to conduct business in State than elsewhere, i. e., distorting normal market
incentives.
The Court's guiding principle also appears to call into
question many garden-variety state laws heretofore permissible under the negative Commerce Clause. A state law, for
example, which requires, contrary to the industry practice,
the use, of recyclable packaging materials, favors local nonexporting producers, who do not have to establish an additional, separate packaging operation for in-state sales. If
the Court's analysis is to be believed, such a law would be
unconstitutional without regard to whether disruption of the
"national market" is the real purpose of the restriction, and
without the need to "balance" the importance of the state
interests thereby pursued, see Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc.,
397 U. S. 137 (1970). These results would greatly extend the
negative Commerce Clause beyond its current scope. If the
Court does not intend these consequences, and does not want
to foster needless litigation concerning_ them, it should not
have adopted its expansive rationale. Another basis for
deciding the case is available, which I proceed to discuss.
II
"The historical record provides no grounds for reading the
Commerce Clause to be other than what it says-an authorization for Congress to regulate commerce." Tyler Pipe Industries, Inc. v. Washington State Dept. of Revenue, 483
U. S. 232, 263 (1987) (SCALIA, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). Nonetheless, we formally adopted the doctrine of the negative Commerce Clause 121 years ago, see
Case of the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232 (1873), and since
then have decided a vast number of negative-CommerceClause cases, engendering considerable reliance interests.

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
SCALIA, J.,

concurring in judgment

As a result, I will, on stare decisis grounds, enforce a selfexecuting "negative" Commerce Clause in two situations:
(1) against a state law that facially discriminates against

intorstate commeree, and (2) against a state law that is
indistinguishable from a type of law previously held unconstitutional by this Court. See Itel ContainersInt'l Corp. v.
Huddleston, 507 U. S. 60, 78-79, and nn. 1, 2 (1993) (SCALIA,
J., concurring in judgment) (collecting cases). Applying this
approach-or at least the second part of it-is not always
easy, since once one gets beyond facial discrimination
our negative-Commerce-Clause jurisprudence becomes (and
long has been) a "quagmire." Northwestern States Portland Cement Co. v. Minnesota, 358 U. S. 450, 458 (1959).
See generally D. Currie, The Constitution in the Supreme
Court: The First Hundred Years 1789-1888, pp. 168-181,
222-236, 330-342, 403-416 (1985). The object should be,
however, to produce a clear rule that honors the holdings
of our past decisions but declines to extend the rationale
that produced those decisions any further. See American
Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Scheiner, 483 U. S. 266, 305-306
(1987) (SCALIA, J., dissenting).
There are at least four possible devices that would enable
a State to produce the economic effect that Massachusetts
has produced here: (1) a discriminatory tax upon the industry, imposing a higher liability on out-of-state members than
on their in-state competitors; (2) a tax upon the industry that
is nondiscriminatory in its assessment, but that has an "exemption" or "credit" for in-state members; (3) a nondiscriminatory tax upon the industry, the revenues from which are
placed into a segregated fund, which fund is disbursed as
"rebates" or "subsidies" to in-state members of the industry
(the situation at issue in this case); and (4) with or without
nondiscriminatory taxation of the industry, a subsidy for the
in-state members of the industry, funded from the State's
general revenues. It is long settled that the first of these
methodologies is unconstitutional under the negative Coin-

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
SCALIA, J.,

concurring in judgment

merce Clause. See, e. g., Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434,
443 (1880). The second of them, "exemption" from or
"credit" against a "neutral" tax, is no different in principle
from the first, and has likewise been held invalid. See
Maryland v. Louisiana, 451 U. S. 725, 756 (1981); Westinghouse Elec. Corp. v. Tully, 466 U. S. 388, 399-400, and,
n. 9 (1984). The fourth methodology, application of a state
subsidy from general revenues, is so far removed from what
we have hitherto held to be unconstitutional, that prohibiting it must be regarded as an extension of our negativeCommerce-Clause jurisprudence and therefore, to me, unacceptable. See New Energy Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, 486
U. S. 269, 278 (1988). Indeed, in my view our negativeCommerce-Clause cases have already approved the use of
such subsidies. See Hughes v. Alexandria Scrap Corp., 426
U. S. 794, 809-810 (1976).
The issue before us in the present case is whether the
third of these methodologies must fall. Although the question is close, I conclude it would not be a principled point
at which to disembark from the negative-Commerce-Clause
train. The only difference between methodology (2) (discriminatory "exemption" from nondiscriminatory tax) and
methodology (3) (discriminatory refund of nondiscriminatory
tax) is that the money is taken and returned rather than
simply left with the favored in-state taxpayer in the first
place. The difference between (3) and (4), on the other hand,
is the difference between assisting in-state industry through
discriminatory taxation and assisting in-state industry by
other means.
I would therefore allow a State to subsidize its domestic
industry so long as it does so from nondiscriminatory taxes
that go into the State's general revenue fund. Perhaps,
as some commentators contend, that line comports with
an important economic reality: A State is less likely to maintain a subsidy when its citizens perceive that the money (in
the general fund) is available for any number of competing,

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
REHNQUIST, C. J.,

dissenting

nonprotectionist, purposes. See Coenen, Untangling the
Market-Participant Exemption to the Dormant Commerce
Clause, 88 Mich. L. Rev. 395, 479 (1989); Collins, Economic
Union as a Constitutional Value, 63 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 43, 103
(1988); Gergen, The Selfish State and the Market, 66 Texas
L. Rev. 1097, 1138 (1988); see also ante, at 200, and n. 17.
That is not, however, the basis for my position, for as THE
CHIEF JUSTICE explains, "[a]nalysis of interest group participation in the political process may serve many useful purposes, but serving as a basis for interpreting the dormant
Commerce Clause is not one of them." Post, at 215 (dissenting opinion). Instead, I draw the line where I do because it
is a clear, rational line at the limits of our extant negativeCommerce-Clause jurisprudence.
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

with whom JUSTICE BLACK-

joins, dissenting.
The Court is less than just in its description of the reasons
which lay behind the Massachusetts law which it strikes
down. The law undoubtedly sought to aid struggling Massachusetts dairy farmers, beset by steady or declining prices
and escalating costs. This situation is apparently not unique
to Massachusetts; New Jersey has filed an amicus brief in
support of respondent because New Jersey has enacted a
similar law. Both States lie in the northeastern metropolitan corridor, which is the most urbanized area in the United
States, and has every prospect of becoming more so. The
value of agricultural land located near metropolitan areas is
driven up by the demand for housing and similar urban uses;
distressed farmers eventually sell out to developers. Not
merely farm produce is lost, as is the milk production in this
case, but, as the Massachusetts Special Commission whose
report was the basis for the order in question here found:
MUN

"Without the continued existence of dairy farmers, the
Commonwealth will lose its supply of locally produced
fresh milk, together with the open lands that are used as

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

wildlife refuges, for recreation, hunting, fishing, tourism,
and education." App. 13.
Massachusetts has dealt with this problem by providing a
subsidy to aid its beleaguered dairy farmers. In case after
case, we have approved the validity under the Commerce
Clause of such enactments. "No one disputes that a State
may enact laws pursuant to its police powers that have the
purpose and effect of encouraging domestic industry." Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias, 468 U. S. 263, 271 (1984). "Direct subsidization of domestic industry does not ordinarily
run afoul of [the dormant Commerce Clause]; discriminatory
taxation of out-of-state manufacturers does." New Energy
Co. of Ind. v. Limbach, 486 U. S. 269, 278 (1988). But today
the Court relegates these well-established principles to a
footnote and, at the same time, gratuitously casts doubt on
the validity of state subsidies, observing that "[w]e have
never squarely confronted" their constitutionality. Ante, at
199, n. 15.
But in Milk Control Rd. v. Eisenberg Farm Products,806
U. S. 346 (1939), the Court upheld a Pennsylvania statute establishing minimum prices to be paid to Pennsylvania dairy
farmers against a Commerce Clause challenge by a Pennsylvania milk dealer that shipped all of its milk purchased in
Pennsylvania to New York to be sold there. The Court observed that "[t]he purpose of the statute ... is to reach a
domestic situation in the interest of the welfare of the producers and consumers of milk in Pennsylvania." Id., at 352.
It went on to say:
"One of the commonest forms of state action is the exercise of the police power directed to the control of local
conditions and exerted in the interest of the welfare of
the state's citizens. Every state police statute necessarily will affect interstate commerce in some degree,
but such a statute does not run counter to the grant of
Congressional power merely because it incidentally or

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

indirectly involves or burdens interstate commerce....
These principles have guided judicial decision for more
than a century." Id., at 351-352.
The Massachusetts subsidy under consideration is similar
in many respects to the Pennsylvania statute described in
Eisenberg, supra. Massachusetts taxes all dealers of milk
within its borders. The tax is evenhanded on its face, i. e.,
it affects all dealers regardless of the point of origin of the
milk. Ante, at 194 ("the tax also applies to milk produced in
Massachusetts"); ante, at 200 ("the evenhanded tax at issue
here"). The State has not acted to strong-arm sister States
as in Limbach; rather, its motives are purely local. As the
Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts aptly described it:
"[T]he premiums represent one of the costs of doing business
in the Commonwealth, a cost all milk dealers must pay."
West Lynn Creamery,Inc. v. Commissionerof Dept. of Food
and Agriculture,415 Mass. 8,19, 611 N. E. 2d 239,245 (1993).
Consistent with precedent, the Court observes: "A pure
subsidy funded out of general revenue ordinarily imposes no
burden on interstate commerce, but merely assists local business." Ante, at 199. And the Court correctly recognizes
that "[n]ondiscriminatory measures, like the evenhanded tax

at issue here, are generally upheld" due to the deference normally accorded to a State's political process in passing legislation in light of various competing interest groups. Ante,
at 200, citing Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Co., 449
U. S.456, 473, n. 17 (1981), and Raymond Motor Transp.,
Inc. v. Rice, 434 U. S.429, 444, n. 18 (1978). But the Court
strikes down this method of state subsidization because the
nondiscriminatory tax levied against all milk dealers is coupled with a subsidy to milk producers. Ante, at 200-201.
The Court does this because of its view that the method of
imposing the tax and subsidy distorts the State's political
process: The dairy farmers, who would otherwise lobby
against the tax, have been mollified by the subsidy. Ibid.
But as the Court itself points out, there are still at least two

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
REHNQUIST, C. J., dissenting

strong interest groups opposed to the milk order-consumers and milk dealers. More importantly, nothing in the
dormant Commerce Clause suggests that the fate of state
regulation should turn upon the particular lawful manner in
which the state subsidy is enacted or promulgated. Analysis of interest group participation in the political process
may serve many useful purposes, but serving as a basis for
interpreting the dormant Commerce Clause is not one of
them.
The Court concludes that the combined effect of the milk
order "simultaneously burdens interstate commerce and
discriminatea in favor of local producers." Ante, at 201. In
support of this conclusion, the Court cites Baldwin v. G.A. F.
Seelig, Inc., 294 U. S. 511 (1935), and Bacchus Imports, Ltd.
v. Dias, supra, as two examples in which constitutional
means were held to have unconstitutional effects on interstate commerce. But both Baldwin and Bacchus are a far
cry from this case.
In Baldwin, supra, in order to sell bottled milk in New
York, milk dealers were required to pay a minimum price
for milk, even though they could have purchased milk from
Vermont farmers at a lower price. This scheme was found
to be an effort to prevent Vermont milk producers from
selling to New York dealers at their lower market price.
As Justice Cardozo explained, under the New York statute,
"the importer... may keep his milk or drink it, but sell it he
may not." 294 U. S., at 521. Such a scheme clearly made it
less attractive for New York dealers to purchase milk from
Vermont farmers, for the disputed law negated any economic
advantage in so doing. Under the Massachusetts milk
order, there is no such adverse effect. Milk dealers have
the same incentives to purchase lower priced milk from outof-state farmers; dealers of all milk are taxed equally. To
borrow Justice Cardozo's description, milk dealers in Massachusetts are free to keep their milk, drink their milk, and
sell it-on equal terms as local milk.

WEST LYNN CREAMERY, INC. v. HEALY
REHNQUIST,

C. J., dissenting

In Bacchus, the State of Hawaii combined its undisputed
power to tax and grant exemptions in a manner that the
Court found violative of the Commerce Clause. There, the
State exempted a local wine from the burdens of an excise
tax levied on all other liquor sales. Despite the Court's
strained attempt to compare the scheme in Bacchus to the
milk order in this case, ante, at 196-197, it is clear that the
milk order does not produce the same effect on interstate
commerce as the tax exemption in Bacchus. I agree with
the Court's statement that Bacchus can be distinguished "by
noting that the rebate in this case goes not to the entity
which pays the tax (milk dealers) but to the dairy farmers
themselves." Ante, at 197, n. 14. This is not only a distinction, but a significant difference. No decided case supports
the Court's conclusion that the negative Commerce Clause
prohibits the State from using money that it has lawfully
obtained through a neutral tax on milk dealers and distributing it as a subsidy to dairy farmers. Indeed, the case which
comes closest to supporting the result the Court reaches is
the ill-starred opinion in United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1
(1936), in which the Court held unconstitutional what would
have been an otherwise valid tax on the processing of agricultural products because of the use to which the revenue
raised by the tax was put.
More than half a century ago, Justice Brandeis said in his
dissenting opinion in New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285
U. S. 262, 311 (1932):
"To stay experimentation in things social and economic is a grave responsibility. Denial of the right to
experiment may be fraught with serious consequences
to the Nation. It is one of the happy incidents of the
federal system that a single courageous State may, if its
citizens choose, serve as a laboratory; and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest
of the country."

Cite as: 512 U. S. 186 (1994)
REHNQUIST,

217

C. J., dissenting

Justice Brandeis' statement has been cited more than once
in subsequent majority opinions of the Court. See, e. g.,
Reeves, Inc. v. Stake, 447 U. S. 429, 441 (1980). His observation bears heeding today, as it did when he made it. The
wisdom of a messianic insistence on a grim sink-or-swim policy of laissez-faire economics would be debatable had Congress chosen to enact it; but Congress has done nothing of
the kind. It is the Court which has imposed the policy
under the dormant Commerce Clause, a policy which bodes
ill for the values of federalism which have long animated our
constitutional jurisprudence.

