SCHLESINGER v. HOLTZMAN
Opinion in Chambers

SCHLESINGER ET AL. V. HOLTZMAN ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-175.

Decided August 4, 1973

Application for stay of District Court's order enjoining Defense
Department officials from "participating in any way in military
activities in or over Cambodia or releasing any bombs which may
fall in Cambodia," the only order extant in this litigation in view
of MR. JUSTICE DouGLAS' order vacating Court of Appeals' stay
of District Court- order, ante, p. 1316, granted by MR. JUSTICE
MARSHALL, pending further order of this Court. BURGER, C. J.,
and. BRENNAN, STEWART, WHITE, BLACKMUN, -PowELL,
REHNQUIsT, JJ., agree with this, action.

and

MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, Circuit Justice.

On August 1, 1973, I, as Circuit Justice for the Second
Circuit, denied an application to vacate a stay entered
by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit on July 27, 1973, staying the order of the District
Court for the Eastern District of New York dated July 25,
1973.
On August 2, Elizabeth Holtzman and others, plaintiffs in the original action, presented an application to
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS. A hearing was then set in
Yakima, Washington, on Friday, August 3. On August 3,
an order was issued by MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS vacating
the stay entered by the Court of Appeals on July 27, 1973,
and thereby reinstating the order of the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
On August 4, the Solicitor General presented an appli-,
cation for a stay of the order of the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Since the action of -the Court of Appeals in granting
.a stay is set aside, the only order extant in this case is

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

414 U. S.

the order of the District Court dated July 25, 1973. The
instant application calls on me to deal directly with that
order of the District Court.
In the ordinary course, a Justice acting as a Circuit
Justice would defer acting with respect to a District Court
order until the Court of Appeals had acted, but in the
present circumstances the Court of Appeals has already
acted and the consequence of the order of Mr. JUSTICE
DOUGLAS is to set aside the Court of'Appeals order.
The consequence of the Court of Appeals' stay order of
August 1, 1973, was to preserve the status quo until it
could act on the merits. The Court of Appeals, having
originally expedited a hearing on the merits to August 13,
1973, has since further expedited the hearing on the
merits to August 8, 1973.
Now therefore, the order of the District Court dated
July 25, 1973, is hereby stayed pending further order by
this Court.
I have been in communication with the other Members
of, the Court and THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE
BRENNAN; MR. 'JuSTICE STEWART, MR. JUSTICE WHITE,
MR. JUSTICE- BLACKMUN,

MR. JUSTIGE REHNQUIST
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

MR. JUSTICE POWELL,

and

agree with this action.
dissenting.

The order I entered August 3, 1973, in Holtzman v.
Schlesinger not only vacated the stay of the Court of
Appeals but also reinstated the judgment of the District
Court. I mailed it on August 3, 1973, and reported its
contents to the Clerk's office. My order of August 3,
1973, reads as follows:
"ORDER
"On application of petitioners and after oral argument it is ordered:
"(1) that the stay of the District Court's order

SCHLESINGER v: HOLTZMAN
1321

DoUGTwS, J., dissenting

entered by the Court of Appeals on July 27, 1973 is
vacated and
"(2) that the order of the District Court of July
25, 1973 enjoining Defendants from participating in
any way in military activities in or over Cambodia
or releasing any bombs which may fall on-Cambodia
is hereby restored.
"W. 0. DouglasU'August 3, 1973."
My Brother IMIARHm A in his opinion of August 4,
1973, misstates the facts when he says that "the only
order extant in this case is the order of the District Court."
A correct statement would be that the most recent order
in this case was my order of August 3, 1973, reinstating
the order of the District Court, which would *thus leave
the Court of Appeals free to act on the merits and give
full relief or, alternatively, permit this Court to reverse
me. Under my Brother MARsHALL'S order of August 4,
1973, only this.Court can act to give injunctive relief.'
The Court has unquestioned power to reverse me.; and
although I disagree with the Court's action on the merits,
that is not the point of this dissent. If we who impose
law and order are ourselves to be bound by law and order,
we can act as a Court-only when at least six'of us are
present. That is the requirement of the Act of Congress; 2 and heretofore it has been the practice to summon
the Court to Special Term. Seriatim telephone calls cannot, with all respect, be a lawful substitute. A ConThe Court takes a bite out 'of the merits, for the order of August 4, 1973, bars the Court of Appeals from reinstating the judgment of the District Court until and unless this Court acts, as the
order states that the order of the District Court "is hereby stayed
pending further order by this Court."
2
"The Supreme Court of the United States shall consist of a
Chief Justice -of the United States and eight associate justices, any
six of whom shall constitute a quorum." 28 U. S. C. ยง 1.

1324

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
DOUGLAtS. J., dissenting

414 U. S.

ference-brings us all together; views are exchanged; briefs
are studied; oral argument by counsel for each side is
customarily required. But even without participation
the Court always acts in Conference and therefore
responsibly.
Those of the Brethren out of Washington, D. C., on
August 4, 1973., could not possibly have studied my
opinion in this case. For, although I wrote it late on
August 3. it was not released until 9:30 a. m. on August 4;
and before 3 p. in.. August 4, I was advised by telephone
that eight Members of the Court disagreed with me.
The issue tendered in the case was not frivolous; the
Government on oral argument conceded as much. It involved a new point of law never yet resolved by the
Court. I have participated for enough years in Conferences to realize that profound changes are made among
the Brethren once their minds are allowed to explore a
problem in depth. Yet there were only a few of the
Brethren who saw my opinion before they took contrary
action.
Whatever may be said on the merits, I am firmly convinced that the telephonic disposition of this grave and
crucial constitutional issue is not permissible. I do not
speak of social propriety. It is a matter of law and order
involving high principles. The principles are. that the
Court is a deliberative body that acts only on reasoned
bases after full consideration, and that it is as much
bound by the law of the land as is he who lives in the
ghetto or in the big white house on the hill. With all
respect, I think the Court has slighted that law. The
shortcut it has taken today surely flouts an Act of
Congress providing for a necessary quorum. A Gallup
Poll type of inquiry of widely scattered Justices is, I think,
a subversion of the regime under which I thought we lived.
One Justice who grants bail, issues a stay of a mandate,
or issues a certificate of probable cause cannot under the

SCHLESINGER v. HOLTZMAN

1321

DOUGLAS,

1325

J., dissenting

statutory regime desigied by Congress vacate, modify, or
reverse what another Justice does. - The Court, of course,
can do so-and only the Court '-but when the Court acts
it must have six Members present.
3 The statutes authorizing individual Justices of this Court to
affirmatively grant applications for such actions do not authorize
them to rescind affirmative action taken by another Justice. See,
e. g., 28 U. S. C. ยง 2101 (f) (stays of mandate); 28 U. S. C. ยง 2241 (a)
(writs of habeas corpus); 18 U. S. C. ยง 3141 and Fed. Rule Crini.
Proc. 46 (a) (2) (granting of bail).
4 This. requirement of collegial action is confirmed by the Rules
of this Court and by this Court's prior decisions and practices.
Rules 50 and 51 govern the in-chambers practices of the Court.
Rule 50 (5) provides that, when one Justice denies an application
made to him, the party who has made the unsuccessful application
may renew it to any other Justice. It was pursuant to this Rule
That application for the stay in this case was made to me. But
neither Rule 50 nor Rule 51 authorizes a party, once a stay has
been granted, to contest that action before another individual Justice.
The Court has previously deemed it necessary and proper to meet
together in Special Term before stays granted by "an individual
Justice out of Term could be overturned. -In Rosenberg v. United
States, 346 U. S.273, the full Court felt constrained to consider its
power to vacate a stay issued by an individual Justice, finally-resting
that power on the Court's position-as a body-as final interpreter
of the law:
"We turn next to a consideration of our power to decide, in this
proceeding, the question preserved by the stay. It is true that the
full Court has made no practice of vacating stays issued by single
Justices, although it has entertained motions for such relief. But
reference to this practice does not prove the nonexistence of the
power; it only demonstrates that the circumstances must be unusual
before the Court, in its discretion, will exercise.its power.
"The power which we exercised in this case derives from this Court's
role as the final forum to fender the ultimate answer to the question
which was preserved by the stay.

[T]he reasons for refusing, as a matter of practice, to yacate
stays issued by single Justices are obvious enough. Ordinarily the
stays of individual Justices -should stand until 'the grounds upon

1326

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting

414 U. S.

Under the law as it is written, the order of MR. JUSTICE

of August 4, 1973, will in time be reversed by
that Higher Court which invariably sits in judgment on
the decisions of this Court. The-order of August 4, 1973,
in this case would be valid only if we had the power to
agree by telephone that the rules framed by Congress to
govern our procedures should be altered. We have no
such power. What Members of the Court told Brother
MARSHALL

to do on August 4, 1973, does not, with- all
respect, conform with our ground rules. It may have
MARSHALL

been done inadvertently, but it is nonetheless not a lawful
order. Therefore, I respectfully dissent.

which they have issued can be reviewed through regular appellate processes.
"In this case, however, we deemed it proper and necessary to convene the Court to consider the Attorney General's urgent application."
Id., at 286-287 (footnote omitted).
Finally, it is our procedure during a Term of Court to take an
application that has already been denied or acted upon by one of the
Justices to the entire Court upon an application made by the opposing side, so that the entire Court can act and thus prevent "shopping
around." That course is not possible-during recess when the Justices
are scattered around the country and throughout the world. Therefore it has been my practice if I grant a stay during recess to make
that stay effective only until the Court convenes in October. This
course could not be followed in the instant case because after August 15, 1973, the case will be moot.

