EX PARTE HAYES

Opinion in Chambers
EX PARTE HAYES
ON APPLICATION FOR 'WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS

No. A-283.

Decided October 26, 1973

Habeas corpus application by a serviceman stationed in Germany,
alleging that he is being unlawfully retained in the Army, is
transferred to the District Court for the District of Columbia
pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2241 (b), since, although the respondent

commanding officer is also in Germany, others in the chain of
command, a'weUl as the other named -respondents-the Chief of
Per3onnel Actions and the Secretary of the Army-are in the
District of Columbia.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS.

This is an application for habeas corpus presented
to me.
The applicant is a United States Army private on
active duty stationed in Mannheim, Germany.; He contends that the Army has. failed to fulfill an enlistment
commitment made to him and that his continued retention by the Army is therefore in violation of law
and army regulations. It is alleged that the applicant's
immediate. commanding officer, in Mannheim, approved
his application for discharge, but that the Chief of Personnel Actions in Washington denied the application.
Named as respondents are these two officers and the
Secretary of the Array, Howard Calloway.
In making his application here the applicant invokes
this Court's original habeas jurisdiction, 28 U. S. C.
§ 2241, in the belief .that' jurisdiction in the district
court nay be questionable because both the applicant
-and his commanding officer are located in Germany,
outside the territorial jurisdiction of any district court.
The Solicitor General in response suggests that juris•dicti6n may be had in the District Court for the District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1973

Opinion in Chambers

414 U.S.

Columbia, or alternatively that the application be transferred to that court pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 2241 (b). 1
I intimate no views on the question or on the merits
of applicant's claim.
We have previously upheld the jurisdiction of a district
court over a habeas application when the person confined is moved out of the district after the application
is filed. Jones v. Cunningham, 371 U. S. 236 (1963);
Ex parte Endo, 323 U. S. 283 (1944).
In Ahrens v.
Clark, 335 U. S. 188 (1948), we reserved the question now
here. Id., at 192 n. 4.
We noted in Endo, supra, at 306, that the more fundamental jurisdictional requirement was not the location
in the district of the. person confined but the presence
of the person with custody over the habeas applicant.
In Schlanger v. Seamans, 401 U. S. 487 (1971), we found
that the District Court did. not have jurisdiction over
the habeas application of an Air Force enlisted man
because neither his commanding officer nor anyone "in
his chain of command" was-a resident of the district.
Id., at 489. Here, as previously noted, the applicant's
commanding officer is in Germany, outside the territorial
limits of any district court. But others in the chain of
command, as well as both of the other named respondents,
are inthe District of Columbia.
The District Court for the District of Columbia in
Rothstein v. Secretary of the Air Force, Civil Action
No. 1565-73, took jurisdiction in a like case on August 30, 1973. It has been suggested that our prior
decisions in Burns v. Wilson, 346 U. S. 137 (1953), and
Toth v. Quarles,350 U. S. 11 '(1955), decided "sub silentio
'"The Supreme Court, any 4ustice thereof, and any circuit judge
may decline to entertain an application for a writ of hs.beas corpus
and may transfer the application for hearing and determination to
the district court having jurisdiction to entertain it." -

EX PARTE HAYES

1327

Opifion in Chambers

and by fiat, that at least a citizen held abroad by federal
authorities.has access to the'writ in the District of Columbia." 2 On that basis I transfer the application to the
District Court for the District of Columbia, recognizing,
of course, that the District Court has jurisdiction to determine the question of its jurisdiction.

,So ordered.

2H. Hat & H. Wechsler, The Federal Courts and The Federal
System 359 n. 52 (2d ed. 1973).

