LAU v. NICHOIS,
Syllabus

LAU t.TAL. v. NICHOLS

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT

No. 72-6520.

Argued December 10, 1973-Decided January 21, 1974

The failure of the San Francisco school system to provide English
,language instruction to approximately 1,800 students of CHnese
ancestry ivho do not speak English, or to provide them with other
adequate instructional procedures, denies their, a meaningful
opportunity to participate in the public -educational program and
thus violates § 601 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which bans
discrimination based "on the ground of race, color, or national
origin," in "any program or aetivity receiving Federal fimancial
assistance," and the implementing regulations of the Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare. Pp. 565-569.
483 F. 2d 791, reversed and remanded.
DouGLAs, J., delivered.the opinion of the Court, in which BRENNAN, MARsHALL, PoWELL, and PEHNQUIST, JJ., joined. STEWART,
J., filed an opinion concurring in the result, in which BURGER, C. J.,

and BI~oxmuN, J., joined, post, p. 569. Wirrm, J., concurred iii,
the result. BrcmuN, J., filed an opinion concurring in the result,
in which BURGER, C. J., joined, post, p. 571.

Edward H. Steinman argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were Kenneth Hecht and David
0. Moon.
Thomas M. O'Connor argued the cause for respondents. With him on the brief were George E. Krueger
and Burk E. Delventhal.
Assistant Attorney GeneralPottinger argued the cause
for the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal.
With him on the b'rief were Solicitor General Bork,
Deputy Solicitor General Wallace, Mark L. Evans, and
Brian K. Landsberg.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed by Stephen J.
Pollak, Ralph J. Moore, Jr., David Rubin, and Peter T. Galiano for

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

414 U. S.

MR. JusTicE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The San Francisco, California, school system was integrated in 1971 as a result of a federal court decree,
339 F. Supp. 1315. See Lee v. Johnson, 404 U. S. 1215.
The District Court found that there are 2,856 students
of Chinese ancestry in the school system who do not.
speak English. Of those who have that language deficiency, about 1,000 are given supplemental courses in
the English language. 1 About 1,800, however, do not
receive that instruction.
This class suit brought by non-English-speaking
Chinese students against officials. responsible for the.
operation of the San Francisco Unified School District
seeks relief against the unequal educational opportunities, which are alleged to violate, inter alia, the Fourteenth
Amendment. No specific remedy is urged upon us.
the National Education Assn. et al.; by W. Reece Bader and James
R. Madison for the San Francisco Lawyers' Committee for Urban
Affairs; by J. Harold Flannery for the Center for Law and Education, Harvard University; by Herbert Teitelbaum for the Puerto
Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, Inc.; by Mario G. Obledo,
Sanford J. Rosen, Michael Mendelson, and Alan Bxelrod for the
Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund et al.; by
Samuel Rabinove, Joseph B. Robison, Arnold Forster,and Elliot C.
Rothenberg for the American Jewish Committee et al.; by F. Raymond Marks for the Childhood and Government Project; by Martin
Glick for Efrain Tostado et al.; and by the Chinese Consolidated
Benevolent Assn. et al.
"A report adopted by the Human Rights Commission of San
Francisco and submitteZl to the Court by respondents after oral
argument shows that, as of April 19.73, there were 3,457 Chinese
students in the school system who spoke little or no English.: The
document further showed 2,136 students enrolled in Chinese special
instruction classes, but at least 429 of the enrollees were not Chinese
but were included for ethnic balance. Thus, as of April 1973, no
more than 1,707 of the 3,457 Chinese students needing special English
imruction were receiving it.

LAU -v. NICHOL55
563

.565

Opinion -of the Court

Teaching English to the students of Chinese ancestry
who do not speak the language is one 'choice. Giving
instructions to this group in Chinese is another. There
may be others. . Petitioners ask only that the Board
of Education be directed to apply its expertise to the
problem and rectify the situation.
The District Court denied relief. The Court of
Appeals affirmed, holding that there was no violation of
-the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment or-'of § 601 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
78 Stat. 252, 42 U. S. C. § 2000d, which excludes- from
participation in federal financial assistance, recipients of
aid which. discriminate against racial groups, 483 F. 2d
791. One judge dissented. A hearing en banc was
denied, two -judges dissenting. Id., at 805.
We granted the petition for certiorari because of the
public importance of the question presented; 412 U. S.
938.
The Court of Appeals reasoned that "[e]very student
•brings to the starting line of his educational career different advantages and disadvantages caused in part by
social, economic and cultural background, created and
continued completely apart from any contribution by
the school system," 483 F. 2d, at 797. Yet in our view
the case may not be.so easily decided. This is a public
school system of California' and § 71 of the California
Education Code states that "English shall be the basic
language of instruction in all schools." That section permits a school district to determine "when and under what
circumstances instruction may be given bilingually.'That section also states as "the'policy .of the state" to
insure "the mastery of English by all pupils in the
schools." And bilingual instruction is authorized "to
the extent that it does not interfere with the systematic, sequential, and regular instruction of all pupils
in the English language.'"

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

414 U. S.

Moreover, § 8573 of the Education Code provides that
no pupil shall ieceive a diploma of graduation from grade
-12 who has not met the standards-of proficiency in "English," as well as other prescribed subjects. Moreover, by
§ 12101 of the Education Code (Supp. 1973) children between the ages of six and 16 years are (with exceptions
not material here) "subject to compulsory full-time
education."
Under these state-imposed standards there is no equality of treatment merely by providing students with the
same facilities, textbooks, teachers, and curriculum; for
students who do not understand English are effectively
foreclosed from any meaningful education.
Basic Ehglish -skills are at the very core of what these
public schools teach. Imposition of a requirement that,
*before a child can effectively participate in the educa•.tional program, he must already -have acquired those-basic
skills is to make a - mockery 'of public education.
We know that those who do not understand -English
are certain to find their classroom experiences wholly incomprehensible and in no way meaningful.
We do not reach the Equal Protection Clause argument which has been advanced but rely solely on § 601
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C. § 200d,
to reverse the Curt of Appeals.
That section bans discrimination based "on the ground
of race, colot, or national origin," in "any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance." The school
district involved in this litigation receives large amounts
of federal- financial assistance. The Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW), which has authority to promulgate, regulations prohibiting discrimination in federally assisted. school systems, 42 U. S. C.
§.2000d-1, in 1968,-issued one guideline that "[s]chool
Systems are responsible for assuring that students of a
particular race, color, or national origin are not denied the
-

LAU v. lXICHOIS

563

' 567
5

Opinion of the Court

opportunity to .obtain the education generally obtained by
other students in the system.". 33 Fed. Reg. 4956. In
1970 HEW made t4e guidelines' more specific, requiring
school districts that were federally funded "to rectify thelanguage deficiency in order, to open" the instruction to
studentsi who had "linguistic deficiencies," 35 Fed. Reg.
11595.
By § 602 of the Act HEW is authorized to issue rules,
regulations, and orders 2 to make sure*that recipients of
federal aid under its jurisdiction conduct, any federally
financed projects consistently with § 601. 'HEW's regulations, 45 CFR § 80.3 (b) (1.), specify that the recipients
may not
"(ii) Provide any service, financial aid, or other.
benefit to an individual which is different, oris provided in a different manner, from that provided to
others under the program;
"(iv) Restrict an individual in any way in the enjoyment of any advantage or privilege enjoyed by
others receiving any service, ,financial aid, or other
*benefit under the program."
Discrimination among students on account of race or
national origin that is prohibited- includes "discrimination.., in the availability or use. of any academic ... or
2 Section

602 -provides:

"Each Federal department and agency which is empowered to

extend Federal financial assistance, to any 'program or activity, by
way of grant, loan, or contract other than a contract of insurance
or guaranty, is authorized and directed to effectuate the provisions
of section 2000d of this title with respect to such program or activity
by issuing rules, regulations, or orders of general applicability which
shall be consistent with achievement of the objectives of the statute
authorizing the financial assistance in 'connection with which the
acti6n is taken ....
" 42 U. S. C. § 2000d-1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Opinion of the Court

414 U. S

other facilities of the grantee or other recipient." Id.,
§ 80.5 (b).
Discriminaticn is barred which has that effect even
though no purposeful design is present: a recipient "may
not .. , utilize criteria or methods of administration which
have the effect of subjecting individuals to discrimination" or have "the effect of defeating or substantially
impairing accomplishment of the objectives of the program as respect -individuals of a particular race, color,
or national origin." Id., § 80.3 (b) (2).
It seems obvious that the Chinese-speaking minority
receive fewer benefits than the English-speaking majority from respondents' school system which denies them a
meaningful opportunity to participate in the educational
program-all earmarks of the discrimination banned by
the regulations. 3 In 1970 HEW issued clarifying guidelines, 35 Fed. Reg. 11595, which include the following:
"Where inability to speak and understand the English
language excludes national origin-minority group children
from effective participation in the educational program
offered by a school district, the district must take affirmative steps to rectify the language deficiency in order to
open its instructional program to these students."
"Any ability groupihg or tracking system employed
by the school system to deal with the special language
skill needs of national origin-minority group children
must be designed to meet, such language skill needs as
soon as possible and must not operate as an educational
deadend or permanent track."
Respondent. school district contractually agreed to
"comply with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.. .
and all requirements imposed by or pursuant to the
3 And see Report of the Human Rights Commission of San Francisco, Bilingual Education in the San Francisco Public Schools
.Ang. 9, 1973.

LAU v. NICHOLS

563

SmWART,

J., concurring in result

Regulation" of HEW (45 CFR pt. 80) which are
"issued pursuant to that title.. ." and also immediately
to "take, any measures necessary to effectuate this agreement." The Federal Government has power to fix the
terms on which its money allotments to the States shall
be disbursed. Oklahoma v. CSC,330 U. S.127, 142-143.
Whatever may be the limits of that power, Steward
Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548, 590 et seq., they
have not been reached here. Senator Humphrey, during
the floor debates-:on the Civil Rights Act of 1964, said:
"Simple justice requires that public funds, to which
all taxpayers of all races contribute, not be spent in any
fashion which encourages, entrenches, subsidizes, or
results in racial discrimination."
We accordingly reverse the judgment of the Court of
Appeals and remand the case for the fashioning of appropriate relief.
Reversed and remanded.
MR.JusicE WH ITE concurs in the result.
MR. JusTicE STFwART,

with whom TnE

CHIEF JuSTIcE

and MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN join, concurring in the
result.
It is uncontested that more than 2,800 schoolchildren
of Chinese ancestry attend school in the San Francisco
Unified School District system even though they do not
speak, understand, read, or write the English language,
and that as to some 1,800 of thpse pupils the res-iondent
school authorities havd taken no significant steps to deal
with this language deficiency. The petitioners do not
contend, however, that the respondents have affirmatively
or intentionally contributed to this inadequacy, but only
S110 Cong. Ree; 6543 (Sen. Humphrey; quoting from President
Kennedy's message to Congress, June 19, 1963).

QOTOBER TERM.. 1973
SmwART, J., concurring in result

414 U.S.

that they have failed to act in the face of changing
social and linguistic patterns. Because of this laissezfaire attitude on the part of the school administrators,
it is not entirely clear that § 601 of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, 42 U. S.- C. § 2000d, standing alone, wwould render

illegal the expenditure of federal funds on these schools.
For that section provides that," [n] o person in the United
States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national
origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the
benefits of,' or be subjected to discrimination under
any program or activity receiving Federal financial
assistance."

On the other hand, the interpretive guidelines published by the Office for Civil Rights of the Department

of Health, Education, and Welfare in 19,70, 35 Fed. Reg.
11595, clearly indicate that affirmative efforts to give
special training for non-English-speaking pupils are required by Tit. VI as a condition to receipt of federal aid
to public schools:
'Where inability to speak and understand the English language excludes national origin-minority group
children from effective participation in the educational program offered by a school district, the district must take affirmative steps to rectify thelanguage deficiency in order to open its instructional
program to these students."'
'These guidelines were issued in further clarification of the
Department's position as stated in its regulations issued to implement
Tit. VI, 45 CFR pt. 80. The regulations provide in part that
no recipient of federal financial assistance administered by HEW may
"Provide any service, financial aid, or other benefit to an individual
which is different, or is provided in a different manner, from that
provided to others under the program; [or]
"Restrict an individual in any way in the enjoyment of any
advantage or privilege enjoyed by others receiving any service,
financial aid, or other benefit under the program." 45 CFR

§ 80.3 (b) (1) (ii), (iv).

TAU v. NICHOLS
563

BLACKmUN, J., concurring in result

The critical question is, therefore, whether the regulations and guidelines promulgated by HEW go beyond
the authority of § 601.2 Last Term, in Mourning v.
Family Publications Service, Inc., 411 U. S. 356, 369,
we held that the validity of a regulation promulgated
under a general authorization provision 'such as § 602
of Tit. VI 3 "will be sustained so long as it is 'reasonably related to the purposes of the enabling legislation.'
Thorpe v. Housing Authority of the City of Durham,
393 U. S,.268, 280-281 (1969)." I think the guidelines
here fairly meet that test. Moreover, in assessing the
purposes- of remedial legislation we have found that departmental regulations and "consistent administrative
construction" are "entitled to great weight." Trafficante
v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 409 U. S. 205; 210;
Griggs v. Duke Power Co., 401 U. S. 424, 433-434; Udall
v. Tallman, 380 U. S. 1. The Department has reasonably and consistently interpreted § 601 to require. affirmative*remedial efforts to give special attention to linguistically deprived children.
.For these reasons I concur in the resuli., reached by the
Court.
MR.

JUsTIcE

BLACKMUN,

with whom

THE

CHIEF

joins, concurring in the result.
I join MR. JusTicE STEWART'S opinion and thus I, too,

JusTIcE

concur in the result. Against the possibility, that the
Court's judgment may be interpreted too broadly, I
2The respondents do not contest the standing bf the retitioners
to sue as beneficiaries of the federal funding contract between the
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and ihe San FraA.cisco Unified School District.
3
Section 602, 42 U. S. C. § 2000d-1, provides in pertinent part:
"Each Federal department and agency which is empowered to extend Federal financial assistane to any program or activity, by way

.572

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
BLAcKmuN, J., concurring in result

414 U. S.

stress the fact that the children with whom we are concerned here number about 1,800. This is a very substantial group that is being deprived of any meaningful
schooling because the children cannot understand the
language of the classroom. We may only guess as to why
they have had no exposure to English in their preschool
years. Earlier generations of American ethnic groups
have overcone the language barrier by earnest parental
endeavor or by the hard fact of being pushed out of the
family or community nest and into the realities of broader
experience.
I merely wish to make plain that when, in another
case, we are concerned with a very few youngsters, or
with just a single child who speaks only. German or
Polish or Spanish or any language other than English,
I would not regard today's decision, or the separate concurrence, as conclusive upon the issue whether the statute
and the guidelines require the funded school district to
provide special instruction. For me, numbers are at the
heart of this case and my concurrence is to be understood
accordingly.

of grant, loan, or contract other than a contract of insurance or
guaranty, is authorized and directed to effectuate the provisions of
section 2000d of this title with respect to such program or activity
by issuing rules, regulations, or orders of general applicability which
shall be consistent with .achievement of the objectives of the statute
authorizing the finanzial, assistance in connection with which the
action is taken. ...
The United States as amicus curiae asserts in its brief, and the
respondents appear to concede, that the guidelines were issued pursuant to § 602.

