OCTOBER TERM, 1973
Per Curiam

414 U. S.

VACHON v. NEW HAMPSHIRE
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

No. 73-573.

Decided January 14, 1974

On the basis of evidence that a 14-year-old girl bought a button
inscribed "Copulation Not Masturbation" at a store operated by
him, appellant was convicted of "wilfully" contributing to the
delinquency of a minr in violation of a New Hampshire statute.
The New Hampshire Supreme Court affirmed. Held: An independent examination of the trial record pursuant to Supreme Court
Rule 40 (1) (d) (2) discloses that evidence is completely lacking that
appellant personally sold the girl the button or that he was
aware of the sale or present in the store at the time, a fatal void
in the State's case that was not filled by appellant's concession at
trial that he "controlled the premises" at the time. A conviction
based on a record completely lackihg any relevant evidence as to a
crucial element of the offense charged violates due process.
113 N. H. 239, 306 A. 2d 781, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

A 14-year-old girl bought a button inscribed
"Copulation Not Masturbation" at the Head Shop in
Manchester, New Hampshire. In consequence, ,appellant, operator of the shop, was sentenced to 30 days
in jail and fined $100 after conviction upon a charge
of "wilfully" contributing to the delinquency of a minor
in violation of New Hampshire's Rev. Stat. Ann. § 169:32
(Supp. 1972). 1 In affirming the conviction, the New
Hampshire Supreme Court held that the "wilfully" component of the offense required that the State prove that
the accused acted "'voluntarily and intentionally and not
'The statute provides in pertinent part:
"[A]nyone . . .who . . . has knowingly or wilfully done any act
to . . . contribute to the delinquency of [a] child, may' be
punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by
imprisonment for not more than one year or.both."

VACHON v. NEW "HAMPSHIRE
478

Per Curiam

because of mistake or accident or other innocent reason.'"

113 N. H. 239, 242, 306 A. 2d 781, 784 (1973).

Thus, the

State was required to produce evidence that appellant,
knowing the girl to be a minor, personally sold her the
button, or personally caused another to sell it to her.
Appellant unsuccessflly sought dismissal of the charge
at the close of the State's case on the ground that the

State had produced no evidence to meet this requirement,
and unsuccessfully urged the same ground as a reason for
reversal in the State Supreme Court. We have reviewed

the transcript of the trial on this issue, pursuant to Rule
40 (1) (d) (2) of the Rules of this Court.3

Our independent .examination of the trial record discloses that evidence is completely lacking that, appellant
personally sold the girl the button or even that he was
aware of the sale or present in ,the store at the time.
The girl was the State's only witness to the sale. She
testified that she and a girl friend entered the store and
looked around until they saw "a velvet display card on

a counter" from which they "picked out [the] pin."

She

went to some person in the store with the button "cupped
in [her] hand" and paid that person 25 cents for the
button. She did not say that appellant was that person,
2The complaint charged that appellant "did wilfully contribute to
the delinquency of a minor by selling or causing to be sold a button
with obscene material with slogan on same, to wit, 'Copulation Not
Masturbation' to ... a minor child of the age of 14.years, knowing
the said child was a minor . -..."
3 The Rule provides, in pertinent part, that- "Questions not presented, according to [the requirements of this rule]' will be disregarded, save as the court, at its option, may notice a plain error
not presented." This discretion has been long acknowledged, see
Columbia Heights Realty Co. v. RuQaph, 217 U; S. 547 (1910)',
recently affirmed in Blonder-Tongue Laboratories, Inc. v. University of Illinois Foundation,402 U. S. 313, 320 n. 6 (1971), and extends
to review of the trial court record, see Sibbach v. Wilson & Co., 312
U. S. 1 (1941). See also Terminiello v. Chicago, 337 U. S. 1 (1949).

480

bc 0OOm TERM, 1973
"

REENQUIST,

J., dissenting

414 U. S.

or even that she saw himoin the store. Rather, she testified that she could not identify who the person was. -We
therefore, agree with Justice Grimes, dissenting, that
"there is no evidence whatever thaf the defendant sold
the button, that he knew it had been sold to a minor,
that he authorized such sales to minors or that he was
even in the store at the time of the sale." 113 N. H., at
244, 306 A. 2d, at 785. This fatal void-in the State's
case was not filled by appellant's concession at trial that
he "controlled the premises on July 26." That concession
was evidence at most that he operated the shop; it was in
no way probative of the crucial element of the crime that
Le personally sold the minor the button or personally
caused it to be sold to her.
In these circumstances, the conviction must 'be
reversed. ' "It is beyond question, of course, that a conviction based on a record lacking any relevant evidence
as to a crucial element of the offense charged ... vio-

late[s] due process." Harris v. United States, 404
U. S. 1232, 1233 (1971). (DouGrLAs, J., in chambers);
Thompson v. Louisville, 362 U. S. 199 (1960); Johnsonv.
Florida, 391 U. S. 596 (1968); see also Adderley v.
Florida, 385 U. S.39, 44 (1966).
The judgment is reversed and the case is remanded to
the New Hampshire Supreme Court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JusTIcE

REHNQuIsT,

with whom THE.

CHIEF

and MR. JusTicE. WHirTs join, dissenting.
Appellant Denis M. Vachon operates the Head Shop
in Manchester, New Hampshire, where he sells various
beads, dresses, posters, and the like. In July 1969, a
14-year-old girl, accompanied by her girl friend, went
to the shop seeking to purchase a button or pin like the

JusTIE

VACHON v. NEW HAMPSHIRE
478

481

REHNQuisT, J., dissenting

one purchased by her friend the previous week. She
found the button, inscribed "Copulation Not Masturbation," and purchased it from i salesperson in the store.
It was conceded in the New Hampshire courtsthat appellant was in control of the premises where the sale was
made. At a jury-waived trial, appellant was convicted
of contributing to the delinquency of a minor, a statutory
offense proscribed in these words:
"[A].nyone .... who shall knowingly or- wilfully
encourage, aid, cause, or abet, or connive eat, or
has knowingly or wilfully done any act to produce,.
promote, or contribute to the delinquency of [a]
.child, may be punished .... " N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann.
§ 169:32 (Supp. 1972).
The Supreme Court of New Hampshire affirmed appellant's conviction. 113 N. H. 239, 306 A.'.2d 781 (1973).
The Court decides that appellant's conviction under
this statute violates rights secured to him by the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, concluding on the basis of its "independent examination of the
trial record" that. "evidence is completely lacking that
.appellant personally sold the girl the button or even that
he was aware of the sale or present in the store at the
time."
In one sense there can be no doubt that the Court's
.conclusion -is based upon an "independent examination
of the trial record," since the claim sustained here was
neither made in constitutional- form to the Supreme
Court of*New Hampshire, nor even presented by appellant in his jurisdictional statement in this Court.*
*Appell int makes two contentions in his jurisdictional statement:
First, that the New Hampshire statutes defining contributing to the
delinquency of a minor and sale and delivery of obscene matbrial
(N I. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§ 571-A:1, 571-A.2 (Supp. 1972)) hpve.been
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
PRnHNQUIST, J., dissenting

414 U. S.

A litigant_ seeking to preserve a constitutional claim
for review in this Court must not only make clear to the
lower courts the nature of his claim, but he must also
make it clear that the claim is constitutionally grounded.
Bailey v. Anderson, 326 U. S. 203 (1945). The clos6t that
appellant came in his brief -on appeal to the Supreme
Court of New Hampshire to discussing the issue on which
this Court's opinion turns is in the sixth section (at
17-18), which is headed: "The State's failure to introduce any evidence of scienter should have resulted in
dismissal of the charge following the presentation of the
State's case." Appellant in that section makes the cus-'
tomary appellate arguments of insufficiency of the evidence and does not so much as mention either the United
States Constitution or a single case decided by this Court.
The Supreme Court of New Hampshire treated these.
arguments as raising a classic state law claim of insufficient evidence of scienter; nothing in that court's opinion remotely suggests that it was treating the claim as
haying a basis other than in state -law.
The Court purports to decide the scienter question
on the basis of Rule 40 (1) (d) (2) of the Rules of this
Court, which provides:,
"1. Briefs of an appellant or petitioner on the
merits shall be printed as prescribed in Rule 39, and
shall contain in the order here indicated"(d) (2) The phrasing 'of the questions presented
need not be identical with that set forth in the
jurisdictional statement or the petition for certiorari,
applied to the sale of the button by appellant in a way that infringes
upon his First and Fourteenth Amendment rights; and, second, that
the New Hampshire statute defining contributing to the delinquency
of a minor is unconstitutionally vague. There is simply nothing else
presented by the jurisdictional statement.

VACHON v. NEW HAMPSHIRE
478

RHNQUTiST, J., dissenting

but the brief may not raise additional questions or
change the substance of the questions already presented in those documents.. Questions not presented
according to this paragraph will ie disregarded, save,
as the court, at its option, may notice a plain error
not presented."
The very language of this rule makes it clear that it
applies to this Court's review of cases in which it has
previously either noted probable jurisdiction or granted
certiorari. The cases cited by the Court in support of
what it does here are therefore necessarily cases in which
review had lieen granted and which had been orally
argued; in addition, each of those cases arose in the
federal courts. See Columbia Heights Realty Co. v.
Rudolph, 217 U. S. 547 (1010); Sibbach v. Wilson & Co.,
312 U. S.1 (1941); Blonder-Tongue Laboratories,Inc. v.
University of Illinois Foundation,402 U. S.313 (1971).
Whatever the import of Rule 40 (1) (d) (2) in cases
arising in the federal courts, it surely does not give this
Court the power to simply ignore the limitations placed
by 28 U. S. C. § 1257 on our jurisdiction to review final
judgments of the highest court of a State. That jurisdiction permits review in this Court by appeal where a
state statute has been upheld against a federal constitutional challenge, or-by writ of certiorari where a federal
constitutional challenge is "specifically set up or claimed"
in state court. Our prior cases establish that we will
CCnot decide federal constitutional issues raised here for
the first time on review of state court decisions."
Cardinale v. Louisiana,394 U. S. 437, 438 (1969). See Crowell
v. Randell, 10 Pet. 368 (1836). Since the Supreme
Court of New Hampshire was not presented with a
federal conititutional challenge to the sufficieney of
the evidence, resolution of this question by the Court
is inconsistent with the congressional limitation on our

OCTOBER TER.M. 1973
REENQUIST,

J., dissenting

414 U. S.

jurisdiction to review the final judgment of the highest
court of a State..
II
Even if appellant's sufficiency-of-the-evidence contention in the Supreme Court of New Hampshire could be
said to have been presented as a federal constitutional
claim based on Thompson v. Louisville, 362 U. S. 199
(1960),. I would nonetheless be unable to join in the
Court's disposition of it. In Thompson, the only state
court proceedings. reaching the merits of the case were
in the Louisville Police Court from which there was no
right of appeal to any -higher state court, and there was
therefore no state court opinion written which construed
the statute under which Thdmpson was convicted. This
Court therefore had no choice but to engage in its. own
construction. of the statute and upon doing so it concluded that the record was "entirely lacking in evidence
to support any of the charges." Id., at 204. Thompson
was obviously an extraordinary case, and up until now
has been saved for extraordinary situations; it has not
heretofore been broadened so as to make lack of evidentiary support for only one of several elements of an
offense a constitutional-infirmity in a state conviction.
Here, however, the Supreme Court of New Hampshire.
construed the state statute defining contributing to the
delinquency of a minor, and held that the evidence
adduced at the trial was sufficient to support
a finding
on each element of that offense. While the Supreme.
Court of New Hampshire did say, as the Court indicates.
that the State was required to prove that the accusedacted "'voluntarily and intentionally and not because of
mistake or accident or other innocent.reason,'" 113 N; H.,
at 242, 306 A. 2d, at 784, it said this in a context of several
paragraphs of treatment of the elements of the offense'
Just as those reading and relying upon our opinions would

VACHON v. NEW HAMPSHIRE
478

REHNQUIST, J:, uissenemg

be ill-advised to seize one phrase. out of context, I think
we are ill-advised to so treat the opinion of the Supreme
Court of New Hampshire. That court had several observations to make about the statutory offense which bear
on the issue of "wilfulness" upon which this Court
focuses:
"It is uncontested that the defendant. was in control of the premises where the sale was made. There
was evidence that a girl friend of this minor had
previously purchased there a pin 'like that.' These
pins were displayed on 'a card on a counter. The
trial court saw the minor and had an opportunity
to conclude whether her minority should have been
apparent to whoever -sold the pin. The court could
find that the defendant was aware of the character
of the pins which, were being offered for sale and
sold in his establishment.
"Defendant is charged with wilfully contributing
to the delinquency of a minor by selling or causing
to be sold to her the button in question. To act
-wilfully is 'to act voluntarily and intentionally and
not because of mistake or. accident or other innocent
reason.' [Citations omitted.] The trial court could
properly find and rule that the sale of this button to
the minor was intentional. The trial *court could
further conclude that the seller of. this type of
button should have realized that it would tend to
-beharmful to the morals of the purchaser or others.
R.S.A. 169:32 (Supp. 1972).- This would warrant
a finding and ruling that. the defendant, wilfully
contributed .to the -delinquency of 'this minor as
charged in the complaint. [Citations. omitted.]"
Id., at -242, 306 A. 2d, at 784.
The Court simply casts aside this authoritative construction of New Hampshire law, seizes one phrase out

OCTOBER TERM, 1973
RSHxQUIST, J., dissenting

414 U. S.

of context, and concludes that there was no evidence to
establish that the appellant "[knew] the girl to be a
minor, personally sold her the button, or personally
caused another to sell it to her." The word "personally"
is the contribution of this Court to the New Hampshire
statute; it is not contained in the statute, and is not once
used by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire in its
opinion dealing with the facts of this very case. Indeed,
the entire thrust of the opinion of the Supreme Court of
New Hampshire is that appellant need not personally
have sold the button to the minor nor personally have
authorized its sale to a minor in order to be guilty of the
statutory offense. The only fair reading of the abovequoted language from the Supfeme Court of New Hampshire is that the word "wilfully" in the statute does not
mean "personally," and the facts that the appellant controlled and operated the shop, that the same type of pin
had been previously purchased at the shop, and that the
pins were prominently offered for sale were sufficient
evidence on the issue of willfulness.
This may seem to us a somewhat broad construction
of the language "wilfully" or "knowingly," though our
own cases make it clear that )weare dealing with words
which may be given a variety of meanings by their
context:
"The difference between willful failure to pay a tax
when due, which is made a misdemeanor, and willful
attempt to defeat and evade one, which is made a
felony, is not easy to detect or define. Both must,
be willful, and willful, as we have said, is a word of
many meanings, its construction often being influenced by its context. United States v. Murdock,
290 U. S. 389. It may well mean something more
as applied to nonpayment of a tax than when applied
to failure to make a return. Mere voluntary and

VACHON v. NEW HAMPSHI
478

RuHNQuiST, J.,

E

487

dissenting

purposeful, as distinguished from accidental, omission to make a timely return might meet the test of
willfulness." Spies v. United States, 317 U. S. 492,
497-498 (1943).
But since our authority to review state court conyictions is limited to the vindication of claims of federal
rights, we must take the meaning of the statute,, and of
the words "wilfully" and "knowingly" which it-uses, as
given to us by the Supreme Court of New Hampshire.
I would have thought such a proposition well settled by
our prior decisions:
"We of course are bound by a State's interpretation
of its own statute and will not substitute our judgment foithat of the State's when it becomes necessary to analyze the evidence for the purpose of
determining whether that* evidence supports the
findings of a state .court." Garner v. Louisiana, 368
U. S. 157, 166 (1961)..
We do have constitutional authority in appropriate cases.
-to hold that the State's construction of its statute is such
that the statutory language did not give a criminal
defendant fair warning of the conduct which is construed
to be embraced within it. Cole'v.Arkansas, 333 U. S. 196
(1948); Bouie v. City of Columbia, 378 U. S. 347 (1964):
But this is a far cry from our own rewriting of a state
statute in order to'make it require a highly specific intent,
and then turning around and saying that there was no
evidence- before the state c ourts to ptove the kind of
intent which we have said the statute requires. I would
at least note probable jurisdiction over therappeal and
st the case for oral argument. Since the Court instead
chooses, without ever having heard argument, to rewrite
the New Hampshire statute aid substitute its interpretation for that of the Supreme Court of New Hampshire,

I d"sent.

