OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS FROM JULY 29 THROUGH
DECEMBER 31, 1974
TIMES-PICAYUNE PUBLISHING CORP.
v. SCHULINGKAMP
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-1305.

Decided July 29, 1974

Application for stay of Louisiana trial court's order restricting
media. coverage of trials of defendants accused of committing
highly publicized rape and murder is granted pending the timely
filing and disposition of a petition for certiorari in this Court,
where the order imposed pervasive restraints of uncertain duration, and where alternative means for protecting the defendants'
rights to a fair trial appear to have been available to the trial
court.

MR. JUsTICE POWELL, Circuit Justice.
This is an application for stay of an order of the Louisiana Criminal District Court for the Parish of Orleans
restricting media coverage of the trials of two defendants
accused of committing a highly publicized rape and murder in the city of New Orleans. The applicant, a Louisiana corporation that owns and publishes two of the city's
daily newspapers, has asked that I stay that order pending filing and disposition of a petition for a writ of certiorari in this Court. Respondent, the Honorable Oliver
P. Schulingkamp, has at my request filed a memorandum
in opposition to the application. The record before me
indicates a substantial possibility that the state court's
order is inconsistent with this Court's decisions governing
prior restraint of the news media and that continuance of
the order pending consideration of a petition for a writ
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

of certiorari would inflict irreparable harm. I therefore
have granted the requested stay.
In April 1973, a young white nursing student was
raped and murdered following her visit to an elderly
patient living in one of the city's public housing projects.
Shortly thereafter, two Negro suspects were arrested and
charged with the crime. The case immediately became
the focal point in the media for a number of more generalized concerns. The state university program that
prompted the student's unescorted visit to the housing
project was called into sharp question, as was the sufficiency of law enforcement efforts in high-crime areas of
New Orleans. The case also occasioned criticism of the
criminal and juvenile justice systems.
Much of the initial publicity was directed toward one
defendant, a 17-year-old with an apparently extensive history of juvenile offenses. Newspaper stories recounted
in some detail the circumstances leading to his arrest and
his subsequent alleged disclosure of the location where the
victim's body was recovered. Additionally, stories dwelt
on his prior juvenile offenses. Almost all of the many
newspaper references characterized him as a youth with a
history of 43 juvenile arrests, the accuracy of which has
since been disputed. Some newspaper accounts referred
to his previous arrest on charges of murder and armed
robbery without simultaneously revealing that those
charges had been dropped for insufficient evidence.
Others reported a psychiatric diagnosis of this defendant
made several years earlier and apparently contained in
the records of the juvenile probation officer.
Within a few days reports concerning the crime, the
accused, and other related concerns ceased to be of banner
importance. Stories became shorter and began to move
from the first page to less prominent positions in the
papers. Newspaper coverage appears to have ceased

TIMIES-PICAYUNE PUB. CORP. v. SCHULINGKAMP
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

within some 10 days of the arrest and the papers apparently published no stories about the defendants from the
latter part of April until late January of the following
year, when one subdued story announced the anticipated
initiation of pretrial motions in the case.'
Some of the newspaper reporting that occurred in April
can hardly be characterized as responsible journalism.
Like many States, Louisiana maintains the confidentiality
of the records of juvenile offenders. La. Rev. Stat. Ann.
ยง 13:1586.3 (Supp. 1974). The record does not indicate
how reporters came into possession of some of their information. Additionally, there appear to be inaccuracies or
partial truths in matters that are of obvious importance.
'Stories from the applicant's newspapers were included in the
defendant's motion to restrict media coverage and have been made
part of this application. They reveal that the crime obtained immediate first-page banner coverage. On April 10, 1973, stories
appeared that reported discovery of the victim's body and the
arrest of a juvenile in connection with the crime. By the next day,
this defendant had been identified and front-page stories began to
portray his history of juvenile arrests. The arrest of the second
defendant received banner coverage on April 12, as did a report
that allegedly linked property stolen from the victim to the possession of the first defendant. The following day first-page banner
stories appeared purportedly detailing the first defendant's juvenile
record and his psychiatric diagnosis. One newspaper also ran a picture of him being escorted to arraignment with his hands cuffed
behind his back. During that same period other stories dealt with
more general topics, and many mentioned this defendant and his
juvenile record.
Publicity began to subside around April 15 and ended a few
days thereafter. The record does not disclose any subsequent
newspaper accounts mentioning the defendants until the appearance
on January 12, 1974, of a story reporting the expected initiation of
routine pretrial motions in the case.
The record does not specifically reveal the nature and extent of
radio and television reporting. I assume that its timing and intensity
more or less paralleled that of the newspaper reporting.

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

In March 1974, some 11 months after the crime
and attendant extensive publicity, counsel for the defendant who had received the most journalistic attention
moved that the Criminal District Court for the Parish
of Orleans impose restrictions on reporting of the case.
The court granted the motion on June 17, 1974. The
court's order imposes a total ban on reporting of testimony given in hearings on pretrial motions until after
the selection of a jury and also places other selective
restrictions on reporting before and during trial.
At the time the order was issued, the court apparently contemplated only one trial. By its terms the
order was to remain in effect until termination of the
trial. The court later severed the defendants' cases and
ordered separate trials of the rape and murder charges
against each. It made no modification of its media
coverage order to reflect this changed circumstance.
The applicant has represented that the court stated
that the order would remain in effect until the termination of the last trial. Respondent has not contradicted
this representation, and I assume it to be correct.
The applicant sought relief from both the lower federal courts and the state court system prior to addressing
this application to me. After failing to obtain immediate injunctive relief from the federal courts, 2 the applicant asked the state court to vacate its order. That
request was denied, as was a request that the court
stay its order pending submission of application for
2 The United States District Court conducted a hearing at which
it heard argument of counsel and the testimony of the respondent

herein. Thereafter, the court determined that it should abstain
from interfering with the state proceedings at that stage. The
applicant noted an appeal from that decision and requested that the

United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit stay the state
court order pending appeal. A panel of the Fifth Circuit denied
the request for a stay. Neither of these decisions is before me today.

TIMES-PICAYUNE PUB. CORP. v. SCHULINGKAMP
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

supervisory and remedial writs in the Louisiana Supreme
Court. On July 9, 1974, the applicant sought writs of
certiorari, review, prohibition, and mandamus, and a stay
of the state trial court's order in the Louisiana Supreme
Court. That same day the Louisiana Supreme Court
denied relief by a vote of four to three, stating that the
"[sihowing made does not justify the relief demanded."
Following one more unsuccessful attempt to obtain an
injunction in the United States District Court, the applicant has requested that I, as Circuit Justice for the
Fifth Circuit, stay the state court's order pending this
Court's consideration of a petition for a writ of certiorari.
I have previously expressed my reluctance, in considering in-chambers stay applications, to substitute my
view for that of other courts that are closer to the relevant factual considerations that so often are critical to
the proper resolution of these questions. Graves v.
Barnes,405 U. S. 1201, 1203 (1972). In my in-chambers
opinion in that case, I articulated the general standards
governing the grant of a stay application: there must
be a reasonable probability that four members of the
Court would consider the underlying issue sufficiently
meritorious for the grant of certiorari or the notation
of probable jurisdiction; there must be a significant possibility of reversal of the lower court's decision; and
there must be a likelihood that irreparable harm will
result if that decision is not stayed. Ibid.
The question of the possibility of irreparable harm is
particularly troublesome in this case. It presents a fundamental confrontation between the competing values of
free press and fair trial, with significant public and private
interests balanced on both sides. If the order is not
stayed, the press is subjected to substantial prior restraint
with respect to a case of widespread concern in the community. If, on the other hand, the order is stayed and

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U.S.

the press fails to act with scrupulous responsibility,
the defendants' constitutional right to a fair trial may
be seriously endangered.
The challenged portions of the order of the Criminal
District Court for the Parish of Orleans impose a total
prohibition on publication of testimony adduced in pretrial hearings until after selection of a jury. Noting
that extensive testimony would be required in considering the many pretrial motions, including motions to suppress an alleged confession and other evidence, the court
specifically ordered "that the reporting of such testimony
be deferred until after the jury has been selected in order
to preclude the possibility of such testimony influencing,
in any way, prospective jurors yet to be selected, and
rendering more difficult the task of selecting said jurors."
In addition, the state court order imposes other selective
restrictions on what may be published both before and
during trial. These restrictions are aimed at the content of news reporting. The order requires that the
media avoid publication of interviews with subpoenaed
witnesses. It also prohibits publication of any of the
defendants' criminal records or discreditable acts or of
any possible confessions or inculpatory statements unless
made part of the evidence in the court record. The order
forbids publication of any testimony stricken by the
court unless identified as having been stricken and bars
publication of any leaks, statements, or conclusions of
guilt or innocence that might be expressed or implied
by statements of the police, prosecuting attorneys, or
defense counsel. Finally, the order prohibits any editorial comment preceding or during trial "which tends
to influence the Court, jury, or witnesses." By its terms,
the order remains in effect "until the conclusion of the
trial." The court's decision to continue the order during pendency of all of the trials ensures that it will

TIMES-PICAYUNE PUB. CORP. v. SCHULINGKAMAP 1307
1301

Opinion in Chambers

extend over an indefinite and possibly lengthy period
of time.
The court's order imposes significant prior restraints
on media publication. As such, it would come to this
Court "'bearing a heavy presumption against its constitutional validity."' New York Times Co. v. UnitedStates,
403 U. S. 713, 714 (1971); Organization for a Better
Austin v. Keefe, 402 U. S. 415, 419 (1971); Bantam
Books, Inc. v. Sullivan, 372 U. S. 58, 70 (1963); Near v.
Minnesota ex rel. Olson, 283 U. S. 697 (1931). Decisions
of this Court repeatedly have recognized that trials are
public events. See, e. g., Sheppard v. Maxwell, 384 U. S.
333, 349-350 (1966); Estes v. Texas, 381 U. S. 532, 541
(1965); Craigv. Harney, 331 U. S. 367, 374 (1947). And
"reporters ... are plainly free to report whatever occurs
in open court through their respective media." Estes v.
Texas, supra, at 541-542.
This Court also has shown a special solicitude for preserving fairness in a criminal trial. "Legal trials are not
like elections, to be won through the use of the meetinghall, the radio, and the newspaper." Bridges v. California, 314 U. S. 252, 271 (1941). See also Rideau v.
Louisiana,373 U. S. 723, 726 (1963); Irvin v. Dowd, 366
U. S. 717 (1961). The task of reconciling First Amendment rights with the defendant's right to a fair trial
before an impartial jury is not an easy one. This Court
has observed in dictum that newsmen might be prohibited from publishing information about trials if such
restrictions were necessary to assure a defendant a fair
trial. Branzburg v. Hayes, 408 U. S. 665, 685 (1972).
There was no indication in that opinion, however, that
the standards for determining the propriety of resort to
such action would materially differ from those applied
in other decisions involving prior restraints of speech and
publication.

OCTOBER TERM, 1974
Opinion in Chambers

419 U. S.

I need only consider this question in the limited context of an application for a stay. On the record before
me, and certainly in the absence of any showing of an
imminent threat to fair trial, I cannot say that the order
of the state court would withstand the limitations that
this Court has applied in determining the propriety of
prior restraints on publication. Cf. United States v.
Dickinson, 465 F. 2d 496 (CA5 1972). The state court
was properly concerned that the type of news coverage
described above might be resumed and might threaten
the defendants' rights to a fair trial. But the restraints
it has imposed are both pervasive and of uncertain duration. They include limitations on the timing as well as
the content of media publication, cf. Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo, 418 U. S. 241 (1974). Moreover, the court has available alternative means for protecting the defendants' rights to a fair trial.3
- The court has already invoked several of these procedures. For
example, portions of the court's order prohibit members of the bar
and other persons under the court's supervision and control from
making extrajudicial statements prior to the termination of trial.
These prohibitions are not challenged here. Additionally, respondent

has indicated his intention to sequester the juries. This will protect
against many of the hazards that the selective restrictions on reporting during trial are designed to prevent.
Some other options may yet be used to protect the defendants'
rights. The defendant who sought the order apparently did not request that the pretrial hearings be closed to the public and press,
and the court does not seem to have contemplated that possibility.
As an initial matter, the court's power to take such action is a question governed by state law. Unlike some States, Louisiana does not
appear to have a specific provision authorizing such action. Cf. Cal.
Penal Code ยง 868 (1970); Iowa Code ยง 761.13 (1973); Mont.
Rev. Codes Ann. ยง 95-1202 (c) (1969). This Court has not been
called upon to determine whether these provisions are constitutional, and I express no view on that question. Of course, the
court must conduct voir dire of the prospective jurors in these cases
with particular care. Finally, the court retains the power to hold

TIMES-PICAYUNE PUB. CORP. v. SCHULINGKAMP
1301

1309

Opinion in Chambers

The issues underlying this case are important and difficult. Without anticipating my views on the merits, I
have concluded that this application satisfies the standards for the grant of a stay. Accordingly, I have decided
to stay that portion of the order of the Louisiana Criminal District Court that imposes direct limitations on
media reporting pending the timely filing and disposition
4
of a petition for a writ of certiorari in this Court.

persons, including members
limited circumstances. See
Pennekamp v. Florida, 328
314 U. S. 252 (1941).
4The applicant has not

of the media, in contempt in particular
Craig v. Harney, 331 U. S. 367 (1947);
U. S. 331 (1946); Bridges v. California,
questioned the portions of the court's

order that relate to the conduct of other persons, and this stay
order does not affect them.

My order is limited to the portion of

the respondent's order directed specifically to the news media. It
does not, however, stay the portion of the court's order prohibiting
the use of electronic or mechanical equipment within the court
during the trial or related proceedings.
The Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press and the
Vieux Carre Courier Publishing Co., as amici curiae, have requested
additionally that I enjoin any court proceeding about which the
press is prohibited from reporting pending final disposition of this
case on the merits. I find that action to be unwarranted and unwise.

