SEYMOUR v. SLIDE & SPUR GOLD MINES.

523

Syllabus.

parties of its meaning, it will be seen that all that it asserts is
that the corporation transfers to Haldeman the shares in full
payment for the property. Or, in other words, that it leaves
to him the perfecting of the title free from incumbrances,
and in consideration therefor issues the 375,000 shares. It
contains no assertion, directly or by implication, that the
plaintiffs either take these shares in payment or accept them
as the only security for payment. It recites that they are
transferred to the trustee, not for the plaintiffs, but for beboof
of all concerned, thus plainly implying that they are to be
used by Haldeman with the assent of the plaintiffs as a means
of obtaining money for the purpose of completing the payment to them; but there is in none of these recitals, either in
terms or by fair implication, an agreement or a statement on
the part of the plaintiffs that they forego their vendor's lien,
and that they intend to look thereafter simply to those shares
and to the good faith of the trustee and the depositary for
the payment of the purchase price. There surely is in all this
nothing to convince that the plaintiffs intended to abandon
the lien upon the property which existed when they executed
the deed to the company and which the agreement for a
retention of control by their agent directly asserted.
We see, therefore, no reason to question the conclusions
reached by the Circuit Court, and its decree is

Affirmed.

SEYMOUR v. SLIDE AND SPUR GOLD MINES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 263. Argued March 15, 1894. -Decided

May 14,1894.

One who holds possession of real estate as manager for or under another
cannot, when sued in ejectment by his principal, dispute the principal's
title.
When such agent admits the relation and the title of his principal, there is
no impropriety in the court's directing a verdict for the plaintiff.
The State only can challenge the right of a foreign corporation to take and
hold real estate within its limits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

THIS was an action in the nature of an action of ejectment,
commenced October 18, 1889, by the Slide and Spur Gold
Mines, (Limited,) in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Colorado, to recover the possession of the
mining properties which were the subject of the controversy
in the case just decided, wherein said company was appellant,
and Ellen R. Seymour, the wife of defendant, and William G.
Fell, were appellees. The complaint was in the ordinary
form, alleging that the plaintiff was seized in fee of the
premises, and that the possession was wrongfully detained by
the defendant. The answer, besides a general denial of the
allegations of the complaint, set forth at length the transactions between IMrs. Seymour and Mr. Fell, the prior owners
of the properties, and the plaintiff, which were noted in the
opinion in the former case. A reply having been filed, the
case, on June 28, 1890, went to trial before a jury. Under
direct instructions from the court, the jury returned a verdict
for the plaintiff. Judgment having been entered thereon,
defendant sued out this writ of error.
Ar. Villard Teller, (with whom

was -Mrk. Harper -M.

Oraiwod on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Harvey Riddell for defendant in error.
Mm. JUsTi-. BR.EwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The pleadings put in issue all questions of fact. Outside of
the pleadings the only matter before the jury was a deposition
of the defendant, taken in a prior litigation between the same
parties. In that deposition he admitted that he had been in
possession of the property as a managing director; that he at
no time denied the right of the company to the possession of
the property, and that. his term as managing director had
expired. There was nothing in the deposition to qualify this
admission. There was, therefore, no impropriety in the court's
directing a verdict for the plaintiff. Jackson v. Dennison, 4

LUXTO

v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE CO.
Statement of the Case.

Wend. 558. One who holds possession of real estate as
manager for or under another cannot dispute that other's title.
Johnson v. Baytup, 3 Ad. & El. 188; Phelan v. Felky, 25
Wend. 389, 393. The estoppel is like to that which arises in
the case of landlord and tenant, and comes within the scope
of the general rule that an agent in possession cannot deny
the title of his principal.
Neither is it necessary to inquire into the right of the
plaintiff as a foreign corporation to take and hold title to real
estate in Colorado, a question which, in some of its aspects,
was before this court in the case of Fis
v. Palmer, 132
U. S. 282; for if, by so doing, any laws of the State are
violated, the State is the one to challenge the act, (Devlin on
Deeds, ยง 127, and cases cited in note,) and it does not lie in
the mouth of the agent of the corporation to raise the question.
The judgment is, therefore,
.Affimned.

LUXTON v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE cIRCurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THCE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 1040. Submitted January 5, 1894. -Decided

May 14, 1894.

Congress, under the power to regulate commerce among the States, may
create a corporation to build a bridge across navigable water between
two States, and to take private lands for the purpose, making just compensation.
The act of July 11, 1890, c. 669, to incorporate the North River Bridge Company, and to authorize the construction of a bridge across the Hudson
River between the States of New York and New Jersey, is constitutional.

THIs was a petition by the North River Bridge Company,
incorporated by the act of Congress of July 11, 1890, c. 669,
(the material part qf which is copied in the margin,' ) for the
1 Ax act to incorporate the North River Bridge Company, and to authorize

the construction of a bridge and approaches at New York City across

