OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Names of Counsel.

courts rather than in the Federal courts, as secured to them
by the Constitution, or their own citizens to do so if they had
causes of action arising under the Constitution and laws of
the United States. We do not entertain the least idea that
the legislature was actuated by any such disposition, and are
persuaded that the language of the act of 1858 produced no
such result.
We are of opinion that the ten-year bar constituted no
defence to the action of plaintiff, and, therefore, the judgment is
Reversed, and the cause remanded,with a direction to enter
judgment for plaintiff on the fmndings.

McKANE v. DURSTON.
APPEA

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORX.
No. 1185.

Submitted April 23, 1894.-Decided May 14, 1894.

In the State of New York the committal to prison of a person convicted of
crime, without giving him an opportunity, pending an appeal, to furnish
bail, is in conformity with the laws of that State when no certificate is
furnished by the judge who presided at the trial or by a Justice of the
Supreme Court of the State, that in his opinion there is reasonable doubt
whether the judgment should stand; and such committal under such
circumstances violates no provision of the Constitution of the United
States.
An appeal to a higher court from a judgment of conviction is not a matter
of absolute right, independently of constitutional or statutory provisions
allowing it, and a State may accord it to a person convicted of crime
upon such terms as it thinks proper.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Lr. Thomas A. Atchison and .Afr. Robert H. Griffln for
appellant.
.Afr. Benjamin F. Tracy and Mr,. Edward X. Shepard for
appellee.

MlcKANE v. DURSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUsTIcE lLALf delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon the trial in one of the courts of New York of an
indictment charging John Y. McKane, the present appellant,
with having wilfully violated certain provisions of the law of
that. State relating to elections and to the registration of
voters, the accused was found guilty and was adjudged, February 19, 1894, to be imprisoned in the State prison at Sing
Sing at hard labor for the term of six years. It was further
ordered by the court that the convict be forthwith conveyed
to that prison in execution of the sentence. That order was
complied with, and he was delivered by the sheriff to the
agent and warden of the prison to be therein confined in
conformity with the sentence against him.
From the judgment ordering his imprisonment in Sing Sing,
McKane prayed and was allowed an appeal to the General
Term of the Supreme Court of New York.
On the 15th day of March, 1894, his counsel presented to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York an application for a writ of habeas corpus,
directed to the agent and warden of Sing Sing prison, and
requiring him to produce the body of the petitioner before
the court, and there abide such order as may be made in the
premises. The petitioner represented that he was deprived
of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
Under the statutes of the United States an appeal may be
taken to this court from the final decision upon habeas corpus
of a Circuit Court of the United States, in the case of any
person alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation of
the Constitution or any law or treaty of the United States.
In re Shibuya Jugiro, 140 U. S. 291, 294, 295; Rev. Stat.
% 751, 752, 753, 761, 762, 763 to 765; Act of March 3, 1885,
c. 353, 23 Stat. 437. Section 766 provides: "Pending the proceedings or appeal in the cases mentioned in the three preceding sections, and until final judgment therein, and after
final judgment of discharge, any proceeding against the person so imprisoned or confined, or restrained of his liberty,

OCTOBER TBRM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

in any state court, or by or under the authority of any State,
for any matter so heard and determined, or in process of being
heard and determined, under such writ of habeas cowus, shall
be deemed null and void."
The object of this statute, as was said in In re Shibuya
Jugiro, above cited, was, in cases where the applicant for the
writ was held in custody under the authority of a state
court, or by the authority of a State, to stay the hands of
such court or State, while the question whether his detention
was in violation of the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the
United States was being examined by the courts of the Union
having jurisdiction in the premises.
When McKane applied for the writ of habeas corpus he
was an inmate of Sing Sing prison pursuant to the judgment
of the court in which he was indicted and found guilty. His
appeal to the General Term of the Supreme Court, so far as
the statutes of New York are concerned, did not prevent his
being committed to that prison in execution of the sentence
pronounced against him. For, by section 527 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure of New York, it is provided that "an
appeal to the Supreme Court from a judgment of conviction,
or other determination from which an appeal can be taken,
stays the execution of the judgment or determination upon
filing, with the notice of appeal, a certificate of the judge who
presided at the trial, or of a Justice of the Supreme Court, that
in his opinion there is reasonable doubt whether the judgment
should stand."
As the accused does not claim to have filed with his notice
of appeal the required certificate of reasonable doubt, his committal to prison pending his appeal to a higher court of the
State was in conformity with the laws of New York.
But it is contended that the Constitution of the United
States secured to him the right to give bail, pending his appeal
to the General Term of the Supreme Court of New York.
By the law of New York, "after the conviction of a crime
not punishable with death, a defendant who has appealed, and
when there is a stay of proceedings, but not otherwise, may
be admitted to bail: 1. As a matter of right, when the appeal

McKANE v. DURSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

is from a judgment imposing a fine only; 2. As a matter of
discretion in all other cases." N. Y. Code of Crim. Pro. ยง 555.
There was no stay of proceedings on the judgment of conviction of McKane, and, therefore, under the statutes of the
State, he was not entitled of right, to be admitted to bail
pending his appeal. If he applied for bail, and bail was
denied, the action of the court was not the subject of review,
because the granting or refusing bail was made by the
statute matter of discretion. Cl0awson v. United States, 113
U. S. 143.
It is, however, insisted, in effect, that these statutory regulations of the State are repugnant to section 2 of article IV of
the Constitution of the United States, which provides that
"the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States." The only
reason suggested in support of this position is, that in most of the
States of the Union a defendant convicted of a criminal charge
other than murder has the right, as a matter of law, upon the
granting of an appeal from the judgment of conviction, to
give bail pending such appeal. Whatever may be the scope
of section 2 of article IV - and we need not, in this case
enter upon a consideration of the general question - the Constitution of the United States does not make the privileges,
and immunities enjoyed by the citizens of one State under
the constitution and laws of that State, the measure of the
privileges and immunities to be enjoyed, as of right, by a citizen of another State under its constitution and laws. An appeal from a judgment of conviction is not a matter of absolute
right, independently of constitutional or statutory provisions
allowing such appeal. A review by an appellate court of the
final judgmnent in a criminal case, however grave the offence
of which the accused is convicted, was not at common law
and is not now a necessary element of due process of law. It
is wholly within the discretion of the State to allow or not to
allow such a review. A citation of authorities upon the point
is unnecessary.
It is, therefore, clear that the right of appeal may be
accorded by the State to the accused upon such terms as in its

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

wisdom may be deemed proper. In a large number of the
States an appeal from a judgment of conviction operates as a
stay of execution only upon conditions similar to tb~se prescribed in the New York Code of Criminal Procedure; in
others, a defendant, convicted of felony, is entitled of right to
a stay pending an appeal by him. But, as already suggested,
whether an appeal should be allowed, and if so, under what
circumstances or on what conditions, are matters for each
State to determine for itself.
Another provision of the Constitution of the United States
invoked by the accused in support of his appeal is that part
of the Fifth Amendment prohibiting the deprivation of
liberty without due process of law. We assume that counsel
who prepared the application for a writ of habeas corpus
intended to refer to that clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which declares that no State shall deprive any person
within its jurisdiction of his liberty without due process of
law. What has been said is sufficient to indicate that, in our
judgment, there is nothing of merit in this contention. It
need not be further noticed.
Our attention has been called to that section of the iNew
York Code of Criminal Procedure which provides that if,
before the granting of a certificate of reasonable doubt by the
judge who presided at the trial, or by a justice of the Supreme
Court, "the execution of the judgment have commenced, the
further execution thereof is suspended, and the defendant
must be restored by the officer in whose custody he is, to his
original custody," which, in this case, would be to the sheriff
of Kings County. ยง 531. The point here made, if we do
not misapprehend counsel for the accused, is that a suspension of proceedings in the state court when it occurs under
the circumstances stated in section 766 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, has the same effect as a certificate of reasonable doubt given by a state judge, under the
state law, after the execution of the judgment of conviction
has commenced. This contention cannot be sustained. The
only purpose of the Federal statute was to prevent the state
court, or the State, pending proceedings on appeal to this

N. Y. & N. E. RAILROAD CO. v. WOODRUFF.

689

Syllabus.

court, from changing, to the prejudice of the accused, the
situation as it was at the time the appeal was taken from the
judgment of a Circuit Court disallowing an application for a
writ of habeas corpus based upon grounds of which, under
the statutes of the United States, the courts of the Union
could take cognizance. The warden of the prison in which
MIcKane is confined is not authorized or directed -even if
be could legally be authorized or directed -by the statutes of
the United States to return the accused to the custody of the
sheriff to await the final action of this court. The appeal to
this court had no effect whatever upon the confinement of the
accused, in conformity with the laws of the State, in Sing
Sing prison before such appeal was taken from the judgment of the Circuit Court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

CONNECTICUT ex rel. NEW YORK & NEW ENGLAND RAILROAD COMPANY v. WOODRUFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF ERRORS OF THE STATE OF
CONNECTICUT.

No. 058. Submitted April 50, 1S94. -Decided

May 14,1894.

New York & New .EnglandRailroad Co. v. Bristol, 151 U. S. 556, affirmed
and followed.
Insurance Company v. The Treasurer,11 Wall. 201, affirmed and followed
to the point that in order to give this court jurisdiction by writ of error
to a state court, it must appear by the record that a Federal question
was raised.
Delaware Navigqation Company v. Reybold, 142 U. S. 636; Hammond v.
Johnston, 142 U. S. 73; and New Orleans v. New Orleans Water Works
Co., 142 U. S. 79, followed to the point that even if a Federal question
was raised in a state court, yet, if the case was decided on grounds
broad enough in themselves to sustain the judgment, without reference
to the Federal question, this court will not entertain jurisdiction.
Baltimore & Potomar-Railroad Co. v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210, affirmed and
followed.
VOL. cLI--44

