OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

dred counts of an indictment, I do not think that public justice
will suffer if the indictment be dismissed.
My conclusion is that the indictments on all the counts retained are insufficient to hold the defendant, and that the judgment below thereon should be reversed in both cases and
judgment entered upon the demurrers in each case for the
defendant, and that he be discharged therefrom.

EVANS v. UNITED STATES (No. 2).
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 923. Submitted April 17,18,1891.-Decided May 14,1894.

Evans v. United States, No. 922, ante, 584, followed.

Tins case was argued with No. 922, ante, 684. It was also
an indictment against Evans for a wilful misapplication of the
funds of the Spring Garden National Bank. The indictment
originally contained 152 counts, upon all of which except 57 a
,nolle pros. was entered. The same proceedings were had as in
the former case. The defendant was convicted upon all the
counts, and sentenced to imprisonment for two years at and
from the expiration of such imprisonment as he might undergo
by reason of the sentence in the prior case. He subsequently
sued out this writ of error. A reargument was ordered upon
the fifth to the eleventh counts inclusive, and upon the fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, and twentieth counts.
X&. Hampton L. Carson, (with whom were Mr. J. Levering
Jones and Mr. Rufus . Shopley on the brief,) for plaintiff in
error.
-M'. Assistant Attorney General Conrad for defendants in
error.
Mr. TUSTIcE BRowN delivered the opinion of tho court.

SEEBERGER v. SOHWEYER.
Opinion of the Court.

As the verdict of guilty was rendered upon all the counts,
and the sentence did not exceed that which might properly
have been imposed upon conviction under any single count,
such sentence is good if any such count is found to be sufficient.
As the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth counts of this
indictment are the same as the eighth, ninth, and tenth of the
other indictment, which were held to be good, except that the
defendant is charged with aiding and, abetting the president
instead of the cashier in the fraudulent misapplication of the
Nettleton notes, and the twentieth bears the same resemblance
to the fourteefith of the other, it follows that these counts are
also good, and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.
Min. JUSTICE FIELD dissented for the reasons stated in his
dissenting opinion in Evans v. United States, ante, 584.

SEEBERGER v. SOHWEYER.

ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

E

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 295. Submitted Mareb 19, 1894.- Decided May 14, 1894.

The words "date of original importation," as used in Rev. Stat. ยง 2970,
refer to the exterior port of first arrival of the merchandise, and not to
the interior port of destination.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE SHmAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the

United States for the Northern District of Illinois by John
VOL. Clm-39

