LYONS v. WOODS.
Statement of the Case.

The case of NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE, AND WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY V. COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA, No. 75, and that
of NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE, AND WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY V.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENN-SYLVANIA, No. 79, each upon writ of
error to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, involved the same
questions as were presented and have been determined in the above
case. For the reasons stated, the judgment in No. 75 and the judgment in No. 79 are each reversed, and those cases are remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion in case No. 591.

LYONS v. WOODS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.

No. 26T. Submitted March 13, 1894.-Decided May 14, 1894.
Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, would seem to be decisive of this case.
The council- of the legislature of the Territory of New Mexico which took
part in the passage of the act approved March 14, 1884, authorizing the
building of a penitentiary, and of the act approved March 29, 1884, to
provide for the building of a capitol, having been recognized by the governor of the Territory, and by the secretary of the Territory, and by the
House of Representatives of the Territory, and it further appearing that
the objections to its organization now made were brought to the attention of Congress, and that that body took no action on the subject, and
the courts of the Territory having adjudged that those statutes were
duly enacted; Held, That considerations of public policy forbid this
mode of attacking the validity of officers de facto, whatever defects there
may have been in tie legality of their appointment or election.
The allegations of this bill make no such case for interposition as would
justify the courts in going behind the enrolled bills, as deposited with
the secretary of the Territory, and declaring them invalid because some
of the members of the council were seated without certificates of election.

THIs was a bill filed by James Lyons and others in the
District Court of the Third Judicial District of the Territory
of New Mexico for the county of Grant, August 27, 1885,
against Woods and others, being the collector of taxes, the
assessor, and the county commissioners for that county, aver-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ring that complainants were taxpayers within said county,
whose property was referred to and described in the tax list
and assessment roll in the hands of defendant Woods, collector, which list and roll were prepared from assessments
made by the assessor of Grant County, compiled under the
direction of the board of county commissioners, and approved
by that board, and received by Woods, as collector, August
13, 1885, said list and roll being, under the laws of the Territory, the warrant under and by virtue of which the collector
was about to collect and was collecting the various sums of
money making up the several items of taxation as therein set
forth. That among the items of taxation in said tax list and
assessment roll for 1885, and upon which each of complainants
was therein noted as being taxed, were two items respectively
described in said list as penitentiary taxes and capitol building
taxes, set down in columns, headed "penitentiary bonds" and
"capitol building bonds," and levied as taxes upon complainants, and each of them, for the purposes described by said
column heading.
The bill then set forth the several assessments of complainants' property respectively and the amounts severally taxed
thereon, and alleged that the items described went to make up
the sums total which the collector was about to collect from
complainants respectively as the amount of taxes due "from
each for various purposes pretended to be warranted by law
and pretended to be due and payable for and during the year
1885; that the amounts of money thus in said list pretended
to be due and payable upon account of penitentiary bonds
and upon account of capitol building bonds and as taxation
so levied for and on account of said items are so claimed and
levied and included in said list by virtue and under authority
of pretended acts of the legislative assembly of said Territory
pretended to have been approved by the governor of said Territory, which said pretended acts so pretended to have been
approved are entitled and described respectively as follows:
'An act authorizing the building of a penitentiary in the Territory of New Mexico, and regulating its management,' approved March 14, 1884, and ' An act to provide for the erection

LYONS v. WOODS.
Statement of the Case.

of a capitol building in the city of Santa F6,' approved March
29, 1881."
The bill then continued: "Your orators further representthat said pretended taxes under the pretended acts of the said
legislative assembly aforesaid, and by the terms thereof, are
to be assessed and levied in the same manner as other territorial taxes are levied and collected. Your orators further represent that the said pretended special taxes provided for under
said pretended acts of the legislative assembly have been assessed by the tax assessor of the said county of Grant, passed
upon by the board of county commissioners of said county sitting as a board of equalization as required by law, and are now
on the tax lists in the hands of said defendant Woods, as collector of the county of Grant, which said tax lists in the hands
of said collector have attached to them the warrant provided by.
law requiring said collector to collect the taxes by said lists or
rolls shown to have been levied, and that copies of said lists
or rolls are now on file in the probate clerk's office of said
county of Grant, and that all the steps required by law for
the proper levy of taxes with reference thereto have been
taken, so that the said lists and rolls in the hands of said
defendant, the collector as aforesaid of said county of Grant,
and the copies thereof in the said probate clerk's office on their
face and by virtue of said pretended acts of the said legislative
assembly aforesaid and the general revenue law of the Territory are a lien upon the real and personal property of your
orators in said county of Grant, and are a cloud upon the title
of your orators to their property, and that said taxation pretended to have been assessed under invalid and pretended laws
of said Territory, as hereinafter alleged, have the force and
effect of personal judgment against your orators and are liens
upon their property as aforesaid, and said lists or rolls are by
law given the effect of executions against the property of your
orators so assessed.
"Your orators further represent that said pretended acts
of the legislative assembly entitled, as aforesaid, ' An act
authorizing the building of a penitentiary in the Territory
of New Mexico and regulating its management,' approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

March 14, 1881, and ' An act to provide for the erection of a
capitol building in the city of Santa F6,' approved M 'arch29,
1881, under which said assessment of taxation is made, and
by virtue of which said pretended liens against your orators'
property are asserted, and by virtue of which said pretended
assessment rolls are claimed to have the effect of executions
in the hands of the said defendant as sheriff and ex offlcio collector of said county of Grant, are not and never have become
valid laws of said Territory of New Mexico, for the reason
that the same never were introduced and passed through the
council of said legislative assembly when a legal quorum of
said council was present and participating in the proceedings
thereof, and for the reason that a majority of a legal quorum
of said council never voted in favor of said pretended laws so
as to legally pass the same through said body; and your
orators charge the facts to be that an act of Congress of the
United States of America was passed and approved on the
14th day of February, 1884, and thereby became a law, which
said act of Congress, among other things, provided that a
session of the legislative assembly of said Territory should
be held, and said assembly convene on the third Monday of
February, A.D. 1884; and said act of Congress declared that
the members elected to the territorial legislature of said
Territory in November, 1882, and all vacancies legally filled
since that time, if any, should be the legal members of the
legislature by said act authorized, subject to all valid contest.
"Your orators further state that in accordance with said act
of Congress a pretended session of said legislative assembly
was held, commencing on the third Monday of February, A.D.
1884.
"Your orators further state the fact to be, and that the
same so appears by the published journal of the proceedings
of said pretended sessions of the council of said legislative
assembly, that upon the convening of said council on the
said third Monday in February, A.D. 1884, only five members
appeared who had regularly received certificates of election
and were so shown to be elected by the election returns of
the said election held in November, A.D. 1882, to have been

LYONS v. WOODS.
Statement of the Case.

elected members of said council; to wit, Jos6 Armijo y Vigil,
of Socorro County; P.ablo Gallegos, of Rio Arribi County;
W. H. Keller and Andrew Sena, of San Miguel County; and
John A. Miller, of Dofia Ana, Lincoln, and Grant Counties,
and that thereupon the said five persons qualified as members
of said council by taking the oath of office required by law
and signing the roll of members.
"Your orators further allege that by law the said council
is composed of twelve members, and that seven thereof are
necessary to constitute a legal quorum for the transaction of
business.
" Your orators further allege that after said five members
had been sworn in, as aforesaid, a motion was unanimously
adopted by the vote of said five members only, and no more,
that Thomas B. Catron, of Santa F6 County, be declared
entitled prlmza facie to the seat from Saute F& County, and
that thereupon the said Thomas B. Catron took the oath of
office as a member of said council, signed its roll, and thereafter acted as a member thereof.
"And your orators further allege that said Catron's seat was
claimed by Henry L. Warren, of Santa F6 County, and that
said Warren held a certificate of election as a member of
said council from Santa F6 County; which said certificate was
the first certificate of election issued by the county commissioners as evidence of the election of members of said council
from said county at said election held in said month of November, A.D. 1882, but that afterwards said county commissioners, acting under protest and compelled by an order of the
District Court in said county of Santa F6, issued a certificate
of election to said Thomas B. Catron.
"Your orators further allege that they are not informed as
to whom the election returns on file in the office of the secretary of the Territory show to have been elected as a member
of said council from the said county of Santa FA at said
election.
"Your orators further allege that afterwards, while said
council was composed of the said five persons as aforesaid
and the said Thomas B. Catron and no others, a motion was

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

therein introduced by the said John A. Miller to the effect
that Charles C. McComas and Jos6 Manuel Montoya, be
declared entitled primai

facie to the seats from Bernalillo

County, subject to the right of contest, and that said motion
was unanimously adopted by the vote of the said six members
and no more, who were then acting, as aforesaid, as members
,of said council.
"Your orators further allege that said Charles C. McComas
-and Jos6 Manuel Montoya held no certificates of election
-whatever as members of said body, but, on the contrary,
Charles Montaldo and Francisco Perea held the certificates of
.election to the seats therein of the members from said county
.of Bernalillo, and that all the election returns of the election
held in said month of November, A.D. 1882, both in the office
-of the county commissioners, and in that of the secretary of
-said Territory, showed and still show that said Charles Montaldo and Francisco Perea received a majority of the votes
cast in said county at said election for members of the council
from said county, and that said Charles C. McComas and Jos6
M. Montoya did not receive a majority of said votes so cast
and were not duly elected members of said council.
"Your orators further allege that the said Charles C.
McComas after the said election in November, A.D. 1882, had
commenced proceedings as a contestant for the seat of said
Charles Montaldo as a member in said council from Bernalillo
County, and served his notice of contest on said Montaldo and
taken testimony under said notice of contest, and that said Jos6
M. Montoya had so commenced contest proceedings against
the said Francisco Perea for the other seat of the member
from said county of Bernalillo, and that said notice of contest
so served and testimony so taken were duly filed with the
secretary of the Territory, and by him were transmitted and
delivered to the said pretended council so organized as aforesaid, and at the time of the proceedings aforesaid the said
papers relating to said contest were in possession of the said
secretary, and that long afterwards, to wit, on the 3d day of
April, A.D. 1884, the committee on elections of said pretended
council reported to said body that the said contested election

LYONS v. WOODS.
Statement of the Case.

cases had been referred to them, and that they found that
said McComas and Montoya were entitled to the seats then
held by them in said body, which said reports are stated by
the journal published by said body to have been on said day
adopted.
"Your orators further allege that the said six persons
aforesaid and the said McComas and Montoya constituted said
,council until on or about the 25th day of March, A.D. 1884,
when the said W. H. Kellar absented himself from said body
and never afterwards participated in its proceedings.
"And your orators further allege that after the said Kellar
had ceased to act with said body J. Innocente Valdez, who
was elected a member of the council from Colfax and Mora
Counties, took the oath of office and participated in the proceedings ; but your orators allege that at no time during the
pretended session of said body did more than six persons,
including the said Thomas B. Catron, take part in its proceedings, except the said Charles C. McComas and J. M. M,ontoya,
unlawfully and arbitrarily seated as aforesaid.
"And your orators further allege that, including the said
McComas, Montoya, and Catron, there were just eight members of said body present and voting when the said bill aforesaid, entitled 'An act authorizing the building of a penitentiary in the Territory of New Mexico and regulating the
management,' was introduced and passed through its several
readings in said body; that said last-mentioned bill by the
journal of said pretended council is alleged to have passed,
under a suspension of the rules of said council, on the 14th
day of March, A.D. 1881, and which said journal shows that
there were present on said day the said Jose Armijo y Vigil,
T. B. Catron, Pablo Gallegos, W. I. Kellar, and McComas,
Miller, Montoya, and Sena, and no more, and that said journal
does not show that said last-mentioned bill was ever passed
on any other day, and that on said day it had never been
determined by any legal quorum or by any other way except
by the illegal and arbitrary action of the said six persons
aforesaid that said McComas and Montoya were entitled to
.said seats in said body.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"And your orators further allege that, including the said
McComas, Montoya and Catron, there were just eight members of said body present and voting when said bill aforesaid,
entitled ' An act to provide for the erection of a capitol building in the" city of Santa F6,' was introduced and passed
through its several readings in said body; that said lastmentioned bill, by the journal of 'said body, is alleged to have
passed, under a suspension of the rules, on the 26th day of
March, A.D. 1884-, and which said journal shows there were
present on said day the said Jose Armijo y Vigil, T. B. Catron,
and McComas, Montoya, Gallegos, Sena, Miller, and Valdez,
and no more, and that of these Messrs. Catron, McComas,
Montoya, Gallegos, Sena, and Armijo y Vigil voted in favor
of the passage of said last-mentioned bill, while Messrs. Miller
and Valdez voted against the passage of the same; and that
said journal does not show that said last-mentioned bill was
ever passed on any other day, and that on said day it had
never been determined by any legal quorum or by any other
way, except by the illegal and arbitrary action of th6 six
persons aforesaid, that said McComas and 11ontoya were lawfully entitled to seats in said body.
" Your orators further represent that said pretended acts
of the legislative assembly aforesaid, having been approved
by the governor's signature attached thereto and filed in the
office of the secretary of the Territory and certified by said
secretary as valid laws, legally passed by the legislative
assembly of the Territory, and that said acts have been incorporated and published in volumes of the laws of the Territory,
so that on their face they seem to be valid laws, so as to give
apparent validity to the assessment of said taxation and to
the lien on the property of your orators aforesaid, when in
truth and fact the said pretended acts of the said legislative
assembly were never legally pasged by said legislative assembly and are absolutely null and void, and that by reason of
the premises the said defendant, collector as aforesaid, has
acquired and can acquire no authority in law whatever for
exacting and collecting the said pretended taxes from your
orators, either by virtue of said pretended acts of the legislative assembly or the steps taken as aforesaid thereunder."

LYONS v. WOODS.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill then set up various grounds of equity interposition,
-not necessary to be repeated, and prayed an injunction and
for general relief. To this bill a general demurrer was filed
by the defendants and sustained, and the complainants declining to plead further, the bill was dismissed for want of equity
with costs, December 4, 1885, whereupon complainants prayed
an appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, by which
the decree was affirmed on the authority of Chavez v. Luna,
21 Pac. fRep. 344, Brinker, J., dissenting, Id. 345. The case
was thereupon brought by appeal to this court.
21r. IF. B. Childers for appellants.
The court will look at the journals of legislative bodies to
see if legislation has been constitutionally and legally enacted:
South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S.260; Gardinerv. Collector,
6 Wall. 499 ; Brown v. 2ash,1 Wyoming, 85 ; Post v. Supervisors, 105 U. S. 667; Gregg v. _Forsythe, 24 How. 179; The
Rail'oad Tax Case, 8 Sawyer, 238; Green v. Wgeller, 32
Mississippi, (3 George,) 650; pangler v. Jacoby, 14 Illinois,
297; . C. 58 Am. Dec. 571; Barnes v. Starne, 35 Illinois,
121; Ryan v. Lynch, 68 Illinois, 160; Pacific Railroad v.
Governor, 23 Missouri, 353; S. C. 66 Am. Dec. 673; Burnham
v. .orissey, 14 Gray, 226; S.C. 74 Am. Dec. 676 ; Southwark
Bank v. Commonwealth, 2 Penn. St. 446; DeBow v. People,
1 Denio, 9.
As to what constitutes a quorum, and what is meant by
,' House" in the organic act, see Southworth v. Palmyra &
JTackson Railroad,2 Michigan, 287; In re The Executive Session, 12 Florida, 653.
There can be no such thing as de facto legislation. The
rule that the acts of de facto officers are upheld applies to
purely ministerial officers.
Constitutional restrictions upon legislative bodies would be
entirely nugatory if any rule can be applied to sustain acts
of a body of usurpers claiming to be a legislature.
No appearance for appellees.
M

.CHIEF Jusr oE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
VOL. CLI--42

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

By § 3 of the organic act of the Territory of New Mexico,
act of September 9, 1850, c. 49, 9 Stat. 446, the executive
power and authority in and over that Territory was vested
in a governor, whose duty was, among others, to "approve
the laws passed by the legislative assembly before they shall
take effect." By the fourth section it was provided that
there should be a secretary of the Territory, who shall " h old
his office for four years unless sooner removed by the President
of the United States," and that "he shall record and preserve
all the laws and proceedings of the legislative assembly hereinafter constituted, and all the acts and proceedings of the
governor in his executive department; he shall transmit one
copy of the laws and one copy of the executive proceedings,
on or before the first day of December in each year, to the
President of the United States, and, at the same time, two
copies of the laws to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate, for the use of Congress."
By § 5 "the legislative power and authority of said Territory
shall be vested in a governor and a legislative assembly. The
legislative assembly shall' consist of a council and house of
representatives. The council shall consist of thirteen members, having the qualification of voters hereinafter prescribed,
whose term of service shall continue two years. The house of
representatives shall consist of twenty-six members, possessing
the same qualifications as prescribed for members of the council, and whose term of service shall continue one year." By
§ 7 it was enacted "that the legislative power of the Territory
shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with
the Constitution of the United States and the provisions of this
act. . . . All the laws passed by the legislative assembly
and governor shall be submitted to the Congress of the United
States, and, if disapproved, shall be null and of no effect."
By chapter 1 of title XXIII of the Revised Statutes, provisions were made "common to all the Territories;" and most
of those in*the organic act of New Mexico were there reproduced, with the addition of certain matters of detail.
By § 1842, it was provided in nearly the identical words,
mutatis mutandi , of paragraph two of section seven of article

LYONS v. WOODS.
Opinion of the Court.

I of the Constitution of the United States, that every bill
which had passed the legislative assembly of any Territory
should, before it became a law, be presented to the governor;
if he approved it, he should sign it, but if not, he should return it, with his objections, to the house in which it originated,
and that house should enter the same on its journals and proceed to reconsider it. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds
agreed to pass it, it should be sent, together with the objections, to the other house, where it should likewise be reconsidered, and, if approved by two-thirds of that house, should
become a law. "But in all such cases the votes of both houses
shall be determined by yeas and nays, and the names of the
persons voting for or against the bill shall be entered on the
journal of each house." The section then provided for a bill
becoming a law in like manner, as if signed by the governor,
if not returned by him within three days, Sundays excluded,
(or five days in Washington and Wyoming,) after it had been
presented, unless the legislative assembly, by adjourning sine
die, should prevent its return, in which case it should not become a law.
By § 1844 it was provided that the secretary of such Territory should record and preserve all the laws of the legislative
assembly and all the acts and proceedings of the governor in
the executive department, "and transmit one copy of the
laws and journals of the legislative assembly, within thirty
days after the end of each session thereof, to the President,"
as well as two copies of the laws to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House for the use of Congress.
And it was further provided that "he shall prepare the acts
passed by the legislative assembly for publication, and furnish
a copy hereof to the public printer of the Territory, within ten
days after the passage qf each act."
By the act of July 27, 1868, c. 272, 15 Stat. 239, 240, the
organic act was amended, and that amendment was carried
forward into § 1921 of the Revised Statutes, which reads:
"The secretary of the Territory of New Mexico, upon the
convening of the legislature thereof, shall administer the oath
of office to the members elect of the two houses and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

officers thereof, when chosen; and no other person shall be
competent to administer such oath save in the absence of the
secretary; in which case, any one member of either house may
administer the oath to the presiding officer elected, and he
shall administer the same to the members and other officers."
The acts of the legislative assembly of the Territory of New
Mexico at its twenty-sixth session, which convened at the
capitol at the city of Sante F6 on Monday, the 18th day of
February, 1884, and adjourned on Thursday, the 3d day of
April, 1884, were duly certified to by the secretary of the
Territory as having been compared with the enrolled originals
and original translations thereof, respectively, on file in his
office, and that the same were true and correct copies thereof,
and published by authority.
Among these acts, as so published, appear "An act authorizing the building of a penitentiary in the Territory of New
Mexico and regulating its management," approved March 14,
1884; and an act entitled "An act to amend an act authorizing the building of a penitentiary and regulating its management, approved March 14, 1884," approved March 26, 1884;
and "An act to provide for the erection of a capitol building
in the city of Sante Fg," approved March 29, 1884. Laws of
New Mexico, c. 58, 59, 60.
The legislative journals for that year, to which reference
-will hereafter be made, show that each of these acts was
signed by the president of the council and the speaker of the
house, and its approval by the governor reported to the house
in which the act originated in each instance.
The question in this case is whether the territorial courts
should have gone behind the enrolled bills whose passage was
thus duly attested, and which were duly approved, placed in
the proper depository, and duly certified to and published,
and held them void upon the ground that certain members of
the quorum of one of the two bodies by which they were
passed were seated without having certificates of election.
And this notwithstanding the fact that "all the laws passed by
the general assembly and governor" were, as must be assumed,
duly submitted to Congress, and that body did not see fit to

,LYONS v. WOODS.
Opinion of the Court.

disapprove any of them under the power reserved by section
seven of the organic act, a power which had been exercised
affirmatively in some instances. Act of April 10, 1869, c. 21,
16 Stat. 44; act of July 14, 1870, c. 270, 16 Stat. 278; act of
February 3, 1879, c. 41, 20 Stat. 280.
In -liners' Bank. v. Iowa, 12 How. 1, 7, a question arose
whether the validity of a certain act of the Territory of Iowa
could be brought before this court under the 25th section of
the judiciary act, and it was held it could not, the court
saying : "It seems to us, that the control of these territorial
governments properly appertains to that branch of the government which creates and can change or modify them to meet
its views of public policy, viz., the Congress of the United
States. That control certainly has not been vested in this
court, either in mode or in substance, by the 25th section of
the judiciary act. It has been argued in this case, that as
Congress, in creating the territorial governments of Wisconsin
and Iowa, reserved to themselves the power of disapproving
and thereby annulling the acts of those governments, and had,
in the exercise of that power, stricken out several of the
provisions of the charter of the Bank of Dubuque, enacted by
the legislature of Wisconsin, assenting to the residue; that
therefore the charter of this bank should be regarded as an
act of Congress, rather than of the territorial government;
and consequently the decision of the state court, in favor of
the repealing law of Iowa, must be held to be one in which
was drawn in question and overruled the validity of a statute
of or an authority exercised under the United States, and as a
decision also against a right, title, or privilege set up under a
statute of the United States. The fallacy of this argument is
easily detected. Congress, in creating the territorial governments, and in conferring upon them powers of general legislation, did not, from obvious principles of policy and necessity,
ordain a suspension of all acts proceeding from those powers,
until expressly sanctioned by themselves, whilst for considerations equally strong they reserved the power of disapproving
or annulling such acts of territorial legislation as might be
deemed detrimental."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In Chavez v. Luna, 21 Pao. Rep. 344, the Supreme Court of
New Mexico held, upon a bill of complaint setting up in substance the same matters as alleged here, that where the constitution of a State prescribed the mode to be observed by the
legislature in passing bills, there was no doubt whatever about
the power of a court to inquire into the question as to whether
the constitution had been violated or not, but that that rule
of law did not apply to the state of facts presented in that
case, in which the only question was one of the organization
of the body; and People v. .Aahaney, 13 Michigan, 481, was
cited to the point that courts cannot entertain a bill to review
the action of a legislature in the manner of its organization,
or the election or qualification of its members. Referring to
section seven of the organic act of the Territory, the court
declined to decide whether, in the general terms therein used,
conferring legislative power upon the legislative assembly of
New Mexico, it was intended to confer the usual and ordinarily
incidental power to determine finally the election, qualification,
and return of the members, but concluded that as by that section all laws passed by the legislative assembly and governor
had to be submitted to Congress, and, if disapproved,. were
null and void and of no effect, it must be presumed that these
acts were so submitted, and, there being nothing to show that
they were disapproved, that they had received the passive
assent of the Congress, and had been in that way approved,
and that, therefore, there was nothing upon which to ground
the jurisdiction of the court over the subject sought to be
reviewed. In the present case the decree below was affirmed
on the authority of Chavez v. Luna, and the dissent was placed
upon the ground that mere non-action by Congress was not
to be taken as an approval of the acts of the legislature so as
to preclude judicial investigation.
We need not consider this difference of opinion further than
to say that the fact that resort to Congress was open to those
who objected to the legality of the acts passed by this legislative assembly is not without significance in inquiring into the
jurisdiction of the courts in the premises.
In Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, it was held by this court,

LYONS v. WOODS.
Opinion of the Court.

upon great consideration, that the signing by the Speaker of
the House of Representatives and by the President of the
Senate in open session of an enrolled bill is an official attestation of such bill as one that has passed Congress; and that
when the bill thus attested receives the approval of the President and is deposited in the Department of State according
to law, its authentication as a bill that has passed Congress is
complete and unimpeachable. That conclusion was reached
in view of the clauses of the Constitution of the United States
bearing upon the subject, and would seem to be decisive of
this case.
It is true that the courts of many of the States under constitutional or statutory provisions of a peculiar character,
which, expressly or by necessary implication, required or
authorized the court to go behind the enrolled act, when the
question was whether the act, when authenticated and deposited in the proper office, was duly passed by the legislature, have announced a different conclusion. These cases are
given in the notes to Field v. Clark, and some of them are
referred to and considered in the opinion in that case. But
as the organic act of New Mexico, taken with the Revised
Statutes, conforms quite closely to the provisions of the Federal Constitution, the rule laid down in Field v. Clark governs the case before us.
Perhaps, however, it would be proper to extend our examination somewhat further. The question whether a seeming
act of a legislature has become a law in accordance with the
fundamental law is a judicial one to be tested by the courts
and judges, and not a question of fact to be tried by a jury.
South Ottawa v. Perkins, 94 U. S. 260, 267; Post v. Supervi.sors, 105 U. S. 667. In the first case Gardnerv. The Qolleetor, 6 Wall. 499, 511, was cited with approval, in which the
court laid down the proposition: "That whenever a question
arises in a court of law of the existence of a statute, or of the
time when a statute took effect, or of the precise terms of
a statute, the judges who are called upon to decide it have a
right to resort to any source of information which in its
nature is capable of conveying to the judicial mind a clear

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and satisfactory answer to such question; always seeking
first for that which in its nature is most appropriate, unless
the positive law has enacted a different rule." And see In re
Duncan, 139 U. S. 449; Jones v. U'nited States, 137 U. S. 202,
216; Field v. Clark, supra.
The bill alleged that the council consisted of twelve members, seven constituting a quorum. By the organic act it was
provided that the council shall consist of thirteen members,
Act of September 9, 1850, c. 49, § 5; 9 Stat. 446, 448. The
act of June 19, 1878, c. 329, 20 Stat. 193, limited the number to twelve and directed the legislative assembly to divide
the Territory into representative and council districts. An
act of June 27, 1879, c. 40, 21 Stat. 35, referred to the act of
June 19, 1878, and to "the twelve members of the council."
In the sessions of 1880 and 1882 there appear to have been
thirteen members of the council, Acts New M,exico, 1880, 11 ;
Acts 1882, 7. By an act of December 21, 1881, the election
held for members of the legislature on the second day of
November, 1880, was declared to be valid, and all the acts
of the legislature, the members of which were chosen at that
election, were validated, and the legislature directed to apportion the representative and council districts, but it was provided that if they failed to do so the apportionment should
be made in accordance with an act referring to the legislatures of Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming, approved June 3,
1880, c. 119, 21 Stat. 1541, Act of December 21, 1881, c. 3, 22
Stat. 1. By an act of February 14, 1884:, c. 6, it was provided
"that the members elected to the territorial legislature of
New M exico in November, anno Domini eighteen hundred
and eighty-two, and all vacancies legally filled since that time,
if any, are hereby declared to be the legal members of the
legislature hereby authorized, subject to all valid contests."
And the legislature was directed to convene on the third
Monday of February, 1884. 23 Stat. 3. But whether composed of twelve or thirteen members, there can be no doubt
that seven constituted a quorum authorized to do business.
It was the duty of the secretary of the Territory, under
section 1921, to administer the oath of office to the members

tLYONS u WOODS.
Opinion of the Court.

elect of the two houses, and there is nothing in this bill to
exclude the presumption that he did so, and if so, it is difficult
to see why persons so sworn in did not thereby become entitled
in the first instance to take their seats, or why the council
thus organized was not at least a council defacto.
The charges of the bill relate to three out of eight members,
but as to one of these, Mr. Catron, the bill states that while
he did not originally have a certificate of election from the
board of county commissioners, which was exo oficio the canvassing board, he did have a certificate issued by that board,
under the order of the district court, in respect of which
adjudication no further question appears to have been made.
Neither as to him nor the two other members, (Mr. McComas
and Mr. Montoya,) whose title to their seats is questioned,
was it alleged that they were not elected to the council, but
the averment as to the latter is that the election returns of
the election held in November, 1882, showed and still show
that two other persons received a majority of the votes cast
in Bernalillo County at the election of members of the council
for that county, and that the two sitting members did not
receive a majority of the votes so cast and were not duly
elected members of said council.
Reference is made in the bill to the journals of the council
andehouse of the legislative assembly of New Mexico for its
twenty-sixth session, and we have examined them as published
by authority. That of the council, after stating that the
legislative council assembled February 18, 1884, in conformity
with the act of Congress, (23 Stat. 3,) recites that the secretary of the Territory being present, "proceeded to call the
names of the councilmen elected from the different counties,
respectively, for the purpose of swearing them in as such.
The following gentlemen answered and were duly sworn, and
signed the official register, to wit." Then follow the names
of eight persons, including those whose title to seats is questioned in this proceeding. The record shows that the election
of officers thereupon ensued, who being duly sworn in by the
secretary, that officer retired. A committee was then appointed to wait upon the governor and inform him that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

council was duly organized and ready to receive any communication which he might be pleased to make them, which
committee having retired in the discharge of the duty assigned
them, after a short absence returned, and reported that they
had done so and that the governor "recognized this body as
legally organized, and would be ready to deliver his message
to both houses in joint session on the next day." But this
record of the proceedings of February 18, 1884, is preceded
by a prefatory statement headed "organization." This states
that the secretary of the Territory appeared at the council
chamber at noon "for the purpose of swearing in the members
of the council, (all as a question of fact being present;) he was
met with a degree of confusion, which, being long continued,"
the secretary retired and proceeded to the house, where organization was effected. Subsequently, and on the same day,
the secretary of the Territory called the members of the council to order and made some remarks, stating among other
things, "the seats of members from Bernalillo County are disputed. It appears from the judgment of the district court
presented, it has passed upon the question involved in the case
of county officers elected at the same election that the members of the legislature were, from that county; and decided
adversely to those elected upon the face of the returns, and
that a large number of fraudulent votes were cast. AVl it
appearing that the application of the same facts would change
the result as to members claiming to have been elected upon
the same ticket, and it likewise appearing that the question of
fraud in said election has become one of public notoriety, and
it also appearing that the seat of the member from Santa F6
County is involved in a similar contest, it therefore seems to
me proper and just that at this time, the members only who
are not involved in the contest should be sworn." Whereupon
five members signed the oath and were sworn in. The secretary thereupon further remarked: "In view of the situation it
seems to me just, in the absence of law to the contrary, that
the members sworn in and not involved in contest should express their judgment as to who of the contestants are _prima
faie entitled to be sworn in. For this purpose, and this pur-

LYONS v. WOODS.
Opinion of the Court.

pose alone, I will consider a motion to be submitted without
debate." A motion was then made that Thomas B. Catron
be declared entitled prima facie to the seat from Santa F
County, subject to the right of contest, which motion was carried by unanimous vote. The name of Mr. Catrbn was then
called by the secretary, and he appeared, signed the oath, and
was sworn in. A similar motion was made as to Messrs.
McComas and Montoya, which being adopted by unanimous
vote, their names were called by the secretary and the*y appeared, signed the oath, and were sworn in as members from
Bernalillo. Mr. Jos6 Armijo y Vigil was then elected president of the council and sworn in by the secretary, and "the
latter then retired." We understand the object of this preface
to be to explain that the three persons, in respect of whom it
was claimed that they were improperly admitted to seats to
the council, did not take their seats in virtue of the vote of the
five members, whose right to act as members of the council
was not disputed, but that the vote of those five was simply
taken by the secretary as advisory, he himself determining
upon his own responsibility who were entitled to be sworn in.
So far as the record proper is concerned, irrespective of this
prefatory matter, nothing appears upon the journals to show
that this was otherwise.
The journal of the house discloses similar proceedings as to
certain members from Bernalillo County. It further appears
therefrom that two bodies had organized, each claiming to be
the territorial council, one presided over by J.F. Chavez and
the other by J.Armijo y Vigil, and each had sent a communication to that effect to the house. The house thereupon appointed a committee to ascertain which of the two councils
was legally organized, a majority of which reported that,
according to the law of the United States, the secretary of
the Territory was "the only authorized person to administer
the oath to the members of either body of the legislature;
that no body can legally be organized until first being sworn
in by said officer;" "that the body represented and presided
over by Hon. Jos6 Armijo y Vigil have been duly sworn in
by the secretary of the Territory and recognized by the gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ernor of the Territory, as the regularly organized and legal
legislative council;" and recommended that the house recognize such council accordingly. The majority report was
adopted, the sitting members from Bernalillo County voting
in the affirmative, but there being a majority without them.
On the other hand, among the joint resolutions passed and
approved at the session of the legislative assembly in question
and to be found in the laws for 1884 as published, is one approved April 3, 1884, reciting that whereas the chairman of
the Committee on Territories of the United States Senate had
advised the governor of the purpose of the committee "1to
investigate the questions at issue in connection with the
memorial of J. Francisco Chavez and others, referred to said
committee," and having requested certain record evidence
bearing upon the issues aforesaid, it was resolved that the
secretary be authorized and directed to turn over for the use
of that committee "all poll books of the said precincts of the
counties of Bernalillo and Santa F6,of the election held on
the 7th day of November, 1882, and all other record evidence
concerning and touching said election in said counties now in
his possession." Laws New Mexico, 1884, 241. The memorial thus referred to will be found in the Congressional Record
for the first session of the Forty-eighth Congress, p. 1549,
where it appears that a memorial signed by Mr. Chavez and
six others, holding, as they state, the proper legal evidences of
election to the twenty-sixth legislative assembly of New Mexico, was presented to the Senate of the United States on March
3, 1884, and was referred to the Committee on Territories.
This memorial refers to the provisions of the territorial
laws that "each branch of the legislative assembly shall decide and determine the election and qualifications of their
own members under the rules and restrictions that may he
respectively adopted by each branch for that purpose." That
"if a .contested election be pending, the person holding the
certificate of election shall take possession and discharge the
duties of the office until the contest shall be decided." Comp.
Laws New Mexico, 1865, c. 63, §§ 35, 50. And that the board
of county commissioners shall act as boards of canvassers of

LYONS v. WOODS.
Opinion of the Court.

the elections within their respective counties; "and shall
immediately issue a certificate of election, under their hands,
to the person that may have received the highest number of
votes for any office." Laws lNew Mexico 1876, c. 1, § 14, par. 9.
The proceedings of February 18, 1884, are then related
at length, and it is insisted that the conduct of the secretary
was unlawful, arbitrary, and in defiance of right, justice, and
the plain provisions of the law. We are not advised as to
what became of the investigation based on the memorial and
referred to in the joint resolution, but it would appear that
Congress took no action whatever in the premises, although
its attention was thus called to the condition of affairs.
It is undisputed, therefore, that the council which participated in the enactment of these laws was recognized by the
governor and the secretary of the Territory and by the house,
nor is there any suggestion in the bill of the existence of any
other council than the one thus recognized; and the courts of
the Territory have adjudged that these acts were duly enacted.
In the meantime, it must be presumed that bonds have
been issued to provide funds for the erection of a penitentiary
and a capitol, and that these public works have gone forward.
Considerations of public policy and necessity for the protection of the public and individuals whose interests may be
affected thereby forbid this mode of attacking the validity
of acts of officers de facto, if this council were no more than
that, whatever defects there may be in the legality of their
appointment or election. fforton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S.
441.
Under these circumstances we think it clear that the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory must be
affirmed.
In Clough v. Curtis, 134 U. S. 361, 371, petitions for mandamus to compel the secretary of the Territory of Idaho to
record certain proceedings as part of the proceedings of a
session of the legislature of the Territory, and to compel
the clerk of the territorial house to bring his minutes and
journals into court to be there corrected, came under review, and this court said: "It is not one of the functions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

a court to make up the records of the proceedings of legislative bodies. Nor can it be required, in a case not involving the private interests of parties, to determine whether
particular bodies assuming to exercise legislative functions,
constitute a lawful legislative assembly. Such a question
might indeed arise in a suit depending upon an enactment
passed by such an assembly. And it might be that, in a
case of that character, and under some circumstances, the
court would be compelled to decide whether such an enactment was passed by a legislature having legal authority to
enact laws. How far in the decision of such a question the
judiciary would be concluded by the record of the proceedings
of those bodies, deposited by the person whose duty it was
to keep it, with the officer designated by law as its custodian,
are questions we have no occasion at this time to consider."
Without undertaking to consider under what circumstances
which of two legislative bodies may be judicially determined
to be the lawful and true body, or when or how the lawful
organization of a legislative body may be judicially drawn
in question, we are of opinion that the allegations of this bill
made no such case for interposition as would have justified
the courts in going behind the enrolled bills as deposited with
the secretary of the Territory, and declaring them invalid
because some of the members of the council were seated without certificates of election.
We may add that, by an act passed by the legislative
assembly in question, approved April 3, 1884, (Laws New
Mexico, 1884, c. 66,) a compilation of the laws of the Territory was provided for, which compilation was duly made and
published by authority, (Compiled Laws New Mexico, 1884;)
that an official index to these compiled laws was adopted;
the compiled laws amended in many particulars; and other
acts of 1884 amended or repealed, by the succeeding, the 27th
legislative assembly, (Laws New M exico, 1886, 1887, c. 49,
and passim ;) and an act was also passtd for the issue of bonds
"for the purpose of paying the present and current indebtedness of the capitol building," (Laws 1886-7, c. 45,) which
latter act was approved by Congress on June 23, 1888, c. 693,
25 Stat. 340.
Decree affirmed.

