BRASS va. STOESER.
Statement of the Case.

BRASS v. NORTH DAKOTA, ex rel.
ERROR TO THE

SECOND

JUDICIAL

STOESER.

DISTRICT COURT OF RAMSEY

COUNTY, STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 768. Argued April 26, 1894.-Decided May 14,1894.
The act of March 7, 1891, c. 126, of North Dakota, "regulating grain warehouses and weighing and handling of grain," declaring elevators, etc., to
be public warehouses, and their owners to be public warehousemen, and
requiring them to give bond conditioned for the faithful performance
of their duty as such, fixing rates of storage, and requiring them to keep
insured for the benefit of the owners all grain stored with them, does not
apply to elevators built by a person only for the purpose of storing his
own grain, and not to receive and store the grain of others, and being so
construed it does not deny the equal protection of the laws to the owner
of an elevator made a public warehouse by it, does not deprive him of his
property without due process of law, does not amount to a regulation of
commerce between the States, and is not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
This case differs in no substantial respect from Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.
113, and Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517, and an adherence to the rulings in those cases requires the affirmance of the judgment of the court
below.

THIS case was submitted on the 15th day of December, 1892.
On the 16th of October, 1893, the court ordered it to be
restored to the docket, for argument before a full bench, and
argument was had accordingly April 26, 1894. The case then
made is stated by the court.as follows:
Norman Brass, the plaintiff in error, owns and operates a
grain elevator in the village of Grand Harbor, in the State of
North Dakota. The defendant in error, Louis W. Stoeser,
owns a farm adjoining the village, on which in the year 1891
he raised about four thousand bushels of wheat. On Septembet 30, 1891, Stoeser applied to store a part of his wheat-crop
for the compensation fixed by section eleven of chapter 126 of
the Laws of North Dakota for the year 1891, which Brass
refused to do unless paid therefor at a rate in excess of that
fixed by the statute. On this refusal Stoeser filed in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

District Court of Ramsey County, North Dakota, a petition

for an alternative writ of mandamus. The District Court
granted an alternative writ of mandamus as follows:
"The State of North Dakota to Norman Brass, respondent:
Whereas the following facts have been made to appear to
this court by the verified petition of the above-named relator,
to wit: 1. That he is the relator in the above-entitled matter;
that he owns and operates a farm containing 540 acres in the
vicinity of the railroad station of Grand Harbor, in the county
and State aforesaid, and during the year 1891 has raised on
said farm about 4000 bushels of grain, principally wheat.
2. That the relator has not sufficient storage capacity on his
farm or elsewhere for said grain so raised as aforesaid, but is
dependent almost wholly upon the grain elevators and warehouses in the vicinity of said farm for storage capacity.
3. That fully fifty per cent of the grain raised in said Ramsey
County, North Dakota, is dependent for storage capacity
upon the grain elevators and warehouses at the various towns,
villages, and railroad stations in said Ramsey County. 4. That
the respondent, Norman Brass, is now and at all the time
herein stated has owned and operated a grain elevator at the
railroad station of Grand Harbor aforesaid for the purpose of
buying, selling, storing, and shipping grain for profit. 5. That
the relator on the 30th day of September, 1891, hauled fiftyeight bushels of wheat to the grain elevator of respondent,
INorman Brass, at Grand Harbor aforesaid, and tendered the
same at said elevator of said Norman Brass for storage, and
requested said Norman Brass to.receive, elevate, insure, and
store said grain for twenty days, and at the time tendered to
said Brass two cents per bushel for compensation for receiving,
elevating, insuring, and storing said grain for twenty days;
that said grain when so tendered as aforesaid was dry and in
a suitable condition for storage, and there was in said grain
elevator of said Brass at Grand Harbor aforesaid at said time
storage capacity for over twenty-five thousand bushels of grain
not in use and wholly unoccupied. 6. That said Brass then
and there refused to receive said grain for the purpose aforesaid and wholly refused to store said grain at said price.

BRASS v. STOESER.
Statement of the Case.

7. That the relator endeavored to secure storage for said grain
at the only other elevator in operation at said railroad station
of Grand Harbor aforesaid, but said elevator refused to receive
relator's grain upon the same ground as respondent. 8. That
the relator is informed and believes that the owners of grain
elevators and warehouses within a radius of fifty miles of
Grand Harbor aforesaid refuse to receive grain for storage at
said price: Now, therefore, this court, in order that justice
may be done in this behalf to him, Louis W. Stoeser, relator,
does hereby command and enjoin you that immediately upon
receipt of this writ you do receive from relator, while your
storage capacity at your elevator herein mentioned is sufficient
for that purpose, all grain that may be tendered you by the
relator in a dry and suitable condition for storage at a rate of
compensation not exceeding the following schedule, viz., for
receiving, elevating, insuring, delivering, and twenty days'
storage, two cents per bushel; storage rates after the first
twenty days, one-half cent per bushel for each fifteen days or
fraction thereof, and shall not exceed five cents for six months,
or that you show cause to the contrary before this court at
the court-house, in the city of Devil's Lake, Ramsey County,
North Dakota, on the 5th day of October, 1891, at ten o'clock
in the forenoon of said. day, or as soon thereafter as counsel
can be heard; and how you have executed this writ make
known to this court at the time and place aforesaid, and have
you then and there this writ.
"Dated Sept. 30th, 1891."
To which writ appellant made return by answer as follows:
"The return of the respondent to the alternate writ of
mandamus issued in the above-entitled proceeding shows to
the court "1. That the respondent admits the truth of the facts
pleaded in said alternative writ.
"12. For a further return to the said alternative writ the
respondent alleges that he owns and operates only one grain
elevator in North Dakota or elsewhere; that the said elevator
is the elevator mentioned in said alternative writ, and is
situated at Grand Harbor, a small way station on the line of

OCTOBER TERI,

1893.

Statement of the Case.

the Great Northern Railroad, containing a population of less
than one hundred people; that there are two other elevators
owned and operated by different owners independently of and
in competition with each other; that there are about six hundred grain elevators, flat-houses, and warehouses in said State
of North Dakota at which grain is bought and shipped for
profit, which said elevators, warehouses, and fiat-houses are
owned and operated by over one hundred and twenty-five
different owners independent of and in competition with each
other; that the owners of said elevators, warehouses, and fiathouses are individuals engaged in buying and shipping grain,
millers who use their elevators to supply their mills with
grain, farmers' shipping associations, elevator corporations,
and individual farmers; that said elevators, fiat-houses, and
warehouses vary in cost of construction from five hundred
dollars to five thousand dollars, and vary in capacity from
five thousand to fifty thousand bushels; that there are from
two to ten elevators, warehouses, and flat-houses operated and
owned each by different owners and operators at every station
in North Dakota at which grain is marketed; that land upon,
which it is practicable to erect other elevators at every station
in North Dakota at which grain is marketed is unlimited in
area and can be readily purchased at prices varying from one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre to forty dollars per acre;
that respondent's said elevator cost, when constructed and
fully equipped, about three thousand dollars; that the capacity
of the same is about 30,000 bushels.
"That respondent's principal business is that of buying
wheat at Grand Harbor, North Dakota, and shipping the
same to and selling it at Minneapolis and Duluth, Minnesota,
to which business that of storing grain for third persons has
been a mere incident.
"That all grain purchased by respondent at his said elevator
is purchased for the sole purpose of being shipped to and sold
at and is shipped to and sold at Minneapolis and Duluth,
Minnesota.
"That respondent in the conduct of his said business contracts with hailers and other purchasers of grain at said

BRASS v. STOESER.
Statement of the Case.

Minneapolis and Duluth to sell and deliver to said persons at
a future and fixed date certain quantities of wheat, and
operates and maintains his said elevator for the exclusive
purpose of purchasing grain to fill said contract.
"That in seasons when the grain yield is light and railroad
facilities are such as to enable grain to be moved rapidly there
is space and storage capacity in respondent's elevator in excess
of that used by respondent's grain, and particularly when
respondent's contracts for the sale of grain are small, while
at other times, when the yield is enormous, as in the present
year, respondent's contracts are large, and the quantities of
grain presented for shipment are beyond the capacity of the
railroads to move, there is not sufficient storage capacity in
respondent's elevator to hold and store the grain purchased
by respondent in the conduct of his said business.
"That there are located in Minneapolis and Duluth, Minnesota, a great many corporations, persons, and copartnerships
engaged in a business known as the 'grain commission'
business.
"That those grain commission houses have swarms of agents
travelling throughout the State of North Dakota, going from
town to town and farm to farm, purchasing grain from farmers
in some instances and in others soliciting farmers to ship their
grain to said houses at Minneapolis or Duluth, Minnesota, to
be by the latter sold on commission.
"That none of said grain commission houses have or own
any storage capacity in North Dakota.
"That if chapter 126 of the Laws of 1891 is valid and its
effect is to compel respondent to receive all grain that may be
tendered to him for storage by grain commission men, farmers,
grain speculators, and others, without reference to the necessities or condition of respondent's business at any particular
time, the entire storage capacity of respondent's elevator will
be exhausted in storing grain for third persons, and the principal business of the respondent, to conduct which his capital
was invested in said elevator, will be utterly ruined and annihilated for want of storage capacity to contain wheat purchased by him to fill contracts made by him in the conduct

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

of his said business, and respondent subjected to suits for damages for non-fulfilment of his said contracts.
"That the relator only offered to pay respondent for the
service which he requested him to perform at the rate fixed
by chapter 126 of the Laws of 1891 -that is, two centsper
bushel; that respondent refused to perform the service for less
than two and one-half cents per bushel.
"That respondent refuses to comply with the provisions of
said chapter 126 on the ground that it abridges his privileges
and immunities as a citizen of the United States; that it deprives him of his liberty and property without due process of
law, and denies to him the equal protection of the laws, and
amounts to a regulation of commerce among the States.
"That for thirteen years last past the rate charged for the
storage of grain has been uniform at all elevators, flat-houses,
and warehouses in North Dakota, and during that time did not
exceed the following schedule: For receiving, elevating, insuring, delivering, and fifteen days' storage, two and one-half
cents per bushel; after the first fifteen days, one-half cent per
bushel for each fifteen days or part thereof, but not to exceed
five cents per bushel for six months.
"That the average farm in North Dakota does not exceed
in area 160 acres; that the average yield in grain of a quarter
section of land in North Dakota does not exceed twenty-five
hundred bushels; that a granary sufficient in size to safely and
securely store twenty-five hundred bushels of grain can be
erected on any farm in North Dakota at a cost not exceeding
one hundred and fifty dollars.
"That the business of respondent and all other persons,
firms, and corporations engaged in the business of operating
grain elevators, warehouses, and flat-houses in North Dakota,
and the manner in which said business is conducted is not in
any manner unwholesome or deleterious to the health, morals,
welfare, or safety of the community or society.
"That the railroad and warehouse commissioners of North
Dakota, on page 33 of their annual report to the governor for
1890, said: ' In view of the fact that after thorough investigation the board deem the charges allowed by section 22, chap-

BRASS v. STOESER.
Statement of the Case.

ter 187, (Laws 1890,) and also section 10 of said chapter, as
unreasonable, the following rules of storage are recommended:
1, for receiving, elevating, insuring, delivering, and fifteen
days' storage, two and one-half cents per bushel; 2, after fifteen days, one-half cent per bushel for each fifteen days or
part thereof, but not to exceed five cents for six months.'
"That the rates referred to by said commissioners as unreasonable were less than the rate recommended by said board.
"That the respondent denies that the legislature has any
power whatever to say whether he shall rent the bins in his
elevator or not, and wholly denies the power of the legislature
to say what he shall charge for the use of his said elevator or
the bins therein.
"That since the enactment of section 9 of chapter 126 of
the Laws of 1885 the amount of grain shipped directly by
farmers without the intervention of elevators, warehouses, or
fiat-houses has been increasing, and in 1890, as respondent is
informed, and believes, nearly fifty per cent of the entire grain
product of North Dakota was shipped to Minneapolis and Duluth, Minnesota, by farmers; that the amount of grain shipped
in that manner is steadily increasing from year to year.
"That pursuant to section 7 of chapter 122, Laws of 1890,
the railroad commissioners adopted and published the following rules to govern the distribution of cars and other freight,
which rules are now in operation in said State of North
Dakota, to wit:
"' STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA,

"'OFFIcE OF CoMissIoN-Rs OF RAILROADS.

"'Rules for the distribution of cars between stations and
shippers.
" 11. In distributing cars to stations for grain loading they
shall be distributed according to the daily average shipments
from such stations.
"'2. In distributing cars to shippers for grain loading at
stations agents shall first fill each shipper's order for one car
to each. After this is done the balance of the cars shall be
distributed among shippers according to the amount of grain
in sight offered for shipment by each shipper.

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"'3. Parties desiring to load grain on track shall be furnished
cars and shall be allowed for loading time twenty-four hours
from the time the car is set on the side track to complete
loading and furnish shipping directions. In case shipper fails
to complete loading or furnish shipping directions within
twenty-four hours, then, in such case, the railway company
may collect upon such cars $3.00 rental for each and every
day or part of a day which such cars are delayed after
twenty-four hours.
"'The above rule as to time and rental charges shall also
apply to grain delayed in unloading on track.'
"In connection with said rules in said report said commissioners said: 'We believe that the railroads have labored faithfully to supply cars to shippers, in accordance with these
rules, and, so far as their ability to supply the demand permitted, cars have been distributed in conformity therewith.
From September 15 to December 15 the demand for cars is
double the ability of the roads to supply, and as a necessary
consequence delay in supplying cars must ensue. In all cases
of complaint as to failure to get cars investigated this year
this has been the case, and cars have been supplied as soon as
possible by the railroad companies.
"' The liberal policy of the railroads in the distribution of
cars adopted this year has been of great benefit to the farmers
of North Dakota.'
"1Wherefore respondent demands judgment quashing the
alternative writ of mandamus, dismissing this proceeding, and
for his costs and disbursements laid out and expended in
this action."
To this return Stoeser interposed a general demurrer, which
was sustained, and Brass electing in open court to stand on his
return, a peremptory writ of mandamus was allowed. From
this judgment an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of
Dakota, which court affirmed the order and judgment of the
District Court, and remitted the record to that court. On
May 28, 1892, final judgment was entered in the District
Court, making the judgment of the Supreme Court the judgment of the District Court, and awarding a peremptory writ

BRASS v. STOESER.
Opinion of the Court.

of mandamus to execute that judgment. Whereupon Brass
sued out a writ of error to this court.
.Mfr. A. B. Browne, (with whom was Mr. A. T. Britton and
Xr. J. F. .Ak Gee on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
-M'. Halbert E. Paine for defendant in error.
AXr. C. D. O'Brien filed a brief for defendant in error.
Mr.

JUSTIOE SHIRAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the 13th article of the constitution of the State of Illinois,
adopted in 1870, all elevators or storehouses where grain or
other property is stored for a compensation, whether the
property stored be kept separate or not, were declared to be
public warehouses, and it was made the duty of the general
assembly to pass all necessary laws to give full effect to that
article of the constitution. 1 Const. & Char. 490. By an act
approved April 25, 1871, and entitled "An act to regulate
public warehouses and the warehousing and inspection of
grain, and to give effect to article 13 of the constitution of the
State," the legislature of Illinois provided that those who
conducted such public warehouses located in cities containing
not less than one hundred thousand inhabitants should procure
licenses and should give bond conditioned for compliance with
the law; prescribed maximum rates for storing and handling
grain; and declared certain penalties for the failure to procure
licenses.
The validity of this law was upheld by the Supreme Court
of Illinois, -Munnv. People, 68 Illinois, 80; and that judgment
was affirmed by this court. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113.
In June, 1888, the legislature of the State of New York
passed an act entitled "An act to regulate the fees and
charges for elevating, trimming, receiving, weighing, and discharging grain by means of floating and stationary elevators
and warehouses in this State," Act of June 9, 1888, c. 581,
whereby maximum charges were fixed for elevating, receiving,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

weighing, and discharging grain, when the business was carried on in a city containing 130,000 inhabitants or upwards,
and penalties imposed for disregard of the provisions of the
statute. The owner of an elevator in the city of Buffalo was
indicted, found guilty, and sentenced, in the Superior Court of
Buffalo, for exacting charges for elevating grain in excess of
the statutory rates. An appeal was taken to the Court of
Appeals of the State of New York, which affirmed the judgment of the Superior Court of Buffalo. Budd v. New York,
117 N. Y. 1. A writ of error brought the case to this court,
where the judgment of the Court of Appeals was affirmed.
Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517.
The legislature of the State of North Dakota, by an act
approved March 7, 1891, c. 126, Laws of 1891, p. 321, and entitled "An act to regulate grain warehouses and the weighing and handling of grain, and defining the duties of the
railroad commissioners in relation thereto," enacted, in the
fourth section thereof, that "all buildings, elevators, or warehouses in this State, erected and operated, or which may hereafter be erected and operated by any person or persons, association, copartnership, corporation, or trust, for the purpose
of buying, selling, storing, shipping, or handling grain for
profit, are hereby declared public warehouses, and the person
or persons, association, copartnership, or trust owning or
operating said building or buildings, elevator or elevators,
warehouse or warehouses, which are now or may hereafter be
located or doing business within this State, as above described,
whether said owners or operators reside within this State or
not, are public warehousemen within the meaning of this act,
and none of the provisions of this act shall be construed so as
to permit discrimination with reference to the buying, receiving, and handling of grain of standard grades, or in regard to
parties offering such grain for sale, storage, or handling at
such public warehouses, while the same are in operation;"
and in the fifth section, "that the proprietor, lessee, or manager of any public warehouse or elevator in this State shall
file with the railroad commissioners of the State a bond to
the State of North Dakota, with good and sufficient sureties,

BRASS v. STOESEIR.
Opinion of the Court.

to be approved by said commissioners of railroads, in the
penal sum of not less than $5000 nor more than $75,000, in

the discretion of said commissioners, conditioned for the faithful performance of duty as public warehousemen, and a compliance with all the laws of the State in relation thereto ;"
and in the eleventh section thereof, "the charges for storing
and handling of grain shall not be greater than the following
schedule: For receiving, elevating, insuring, delivering, and
twenty days' storage, two cents per bushel. Storage rates,
after the first twenty days, one-half cent for each fifteen days
or fraction thereof, and shall not exceed five cents for six
months. The grain shall be kept insured at the expense of
the warehousemen for the benefit'of the owner;" and by the
twelfth section it is provided that "any person, firm, or association, or any representative thereof, who shall fail to do and
keep the requirements as herein provided, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of not less than two hundred dollars nor
more than one thousand dollars, and be liable in addition
thereto to imprisonment for not more than one year in the
state penitentiary, at the discretion of the court."
In October, 1891, in the District Court of the Second
Judicial District of the State of North Dakota, in proceedings
the nature of which sufficiently appears in the previous statement of facts, the validity of this statute was sustained, and
the judgment of that court was, on error, duly affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State. Brass v. .ortk Dakota, 52
N. W. Rep. 408.
In the cases thus brought to this court from the States of
Illinois and New York, we were asked to declare void statutes
regulating the affairs of grain warehouses and elevators within
those States, and held valid by their highest courts, because it
was claimed that such legislation was repugnant to that clause
of the eighth section of article 1 of the Constitution of the
United States, which confers upon Congress power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several States,
and to the Fourteenth Amendment, which ordains that no
State shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property
VOL. cuur-26

OCTOBER TERMi, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

without due process of law, nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
In the case now before us the same contentions are made,
but we are not asked to review our decisions made in the
previous cases. Indeed, their soundness is tacitly admitted in
the briefs and argument of the counsel of the plaintiff in error.
But it is said that those cases arose out of facts so peculiar and
exceptional, and so different from those of the present case,
as to render the reasoning there used, and the conclusions
reached, now inapplicable.
The concession, then, is that, upon the facts found to exist
by the legislatures of Illinois and New York, their enactments
were by the courts properlr declared valid, and the contention
is that the facts upon which the legislature of North Dakota
proceeded, and of which we can take notice in the present case,
are so different as to call for the application of other principles, and to render an opposite conclusion necessary.
The differences in the facts of the respective cases, to which
we are pointed, are mainly as follows: In the first place, what
may be called a geographical difference is suggested, in that
the operation of the Illinois and New York statutes is said to
be restricted to the city of Chicago in the one case, and to the
cities of Buffalo, New York, and Brooklyn in the other, while
the North Dakota statute is applicable to the territory of the
entire State.
It is, indeed, true that while the terms of the Illinois and
New York statutes embrace in both cases the entire State, yet
their behests are restricted to cities having not less than a
prescribed number of inhabitants, and that there is no such
restriction in the North Dakota law.
Upon this it is argued that the statutes of Illinois and New
York are intended to operate in great trade centres, where, on
account of the business being localized in the hands of a few
persons in close proximity to each other, great opportunities
for combinations to raise and control elevating and storage
charges are afforded, while the wide extent of the State of
North Dakota and the small population of its country towns
and villages are said to present no such opportunities.

BRASS v. STOESER.
Opinion of the Court.

The considerations mentioned are obviously addressed to the
legislative discretion. It can scarcely be meant to contend
that the statutes of Illinois and New York, valid in their present
form, would become illegal if the law makers thought fit to
repeal the clauses limiting their operation to cities of a certain
size, or that the statute of North Dakota would at once be
validated if one or more of her towns were to reach a population of one hundred thousand, and her legislature were to
restrict the operation of the statute to such cities.
Again, it is said that the modes of carrying on the business
of elevating and storing grain in North Dakota are not similar to those pursued in the Eastern cities; that the great elevators used in transshipping grain from the Lakes to the
railroads are essential; and that those who own them, if uncontrolled by law, could extort such charges as they pleased;
and great stress is laid upon expressions used in our previous
opinions, in which this business, as carried on at Chicago
and Buffalo, is spoken of as a practical monopoly, to which
shippers and owners of grain are compelled to resort. The
surroundings in an agricultural State, where land is cheap
in price and limitless in quantity, are thought to be widely
different, and to demand different regulations.
These arguments are disposed of, as we think, by the simple
observation, already made, that the facts rehearsed are matters for those who make, not for those who interpret, the laws.
When it is once admitted, as it is admitted here, that it is
competent for the legislative power to control the business of
elevating and storing grain, whether carried on by individuals
or associations, in cities of one size and in some circumstances,
it follows that such power may be legally exerted over the
same business when carried on in smaller cities and in other
circumstances. It may be conceded that that would not be
wise legislation which provided the same regulations in every
case, and overlooked differences in the facts that called for
regulations. But, as we have no right to revise the wisdom
or expediency of the law in question, so we would not be
justified in imputing an improper exercise of discretion to the
legislature of North Dakota. It may be true that, in the

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

cases cited, the judges who expressed the conclusions of
the court entered, at some length, into a defence of the propriety of the laws which they were considering, and that
some of the reasons given for sustaining them went rather to
their expediency than to their validity. Such efforts, on the
part of judges, to justify to citizens the ways of legislatures
are not without value, though they are liable to be met by
the assertion of opposite views as to the practical wisdom of
the law, and thus the real question at issue, namely, the
power of the legislature to act at all, is obscured. Still, in
the present instance, the obvious aim of the reasoning that
prevailed was to show that the subject-matter of these enactinents fell within the legitimate sphere of legislative power,
and that, so far as the laws and Constitution of the United
States were concerned, the legislation in question deprived no
person of his property without due process of law, and did not
interfere with Federal jurisdiction over interstate commerce.
Another argument advanced is based on the admitted allegation that the principal business of the plaintiff in error, in
connection with his warehouse, is in storing his own grain,
and that the storage of the grain of other persons is and
always has been a mere incident, and it is said that the effect
of this law will be to compel him to renounce his principal
business and become a mere warehouseman for others. We
do not understand this law to require the owner of a warehouse, built and used by him only to store his own grain, to receive and store the grain of others. Such a duty only arises
when he chooses to enter upon the business of elevating and
storing the grain of other persons for profit. Then he becomes subject to the statutory regulations, and he cannot
escape them by asserting that he also elevates and stores his
own grain in the same warehouse. As well might a person
accused of selling liquor without a license urge that the larger
part of his liquors were designed for his own consumption,
and that he only sold the surplus as a mere incident.
Another objection to the law is found in its provision that
the warehouseman shall insure the grain of others at his own
expense. This may be burdensome, but it affects alike all

BRASS v. STOESER.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Jackson, White, JJ.

engaged in the business, and, if it be regarded as contrary to
sound public policy, those affected must instruct their representatives in general assembly met to provide a remedy.
The plaintiff in error, in his answer to the writ of mandamus, based his defence wholly upon grounds arising under the
constitution of the State and of the United States. We are
limited by this record to the questions whether the legislature
of North Dakota, in regulating by a general law the business
and charges of public warehousemen engaged in elevating and
storing grain for profit, denies to the plaintiff in error the
equal protection of the laws or deprives him of his property
without due process of law, and whether such statutory regulations amount to a regulation of commerce between the
States. The allegations and arguments of the plaintiff in
error have failed to satisfy us that any solid distinction can
be found between the cases in which those questions have
been heretofore determined by this court and the present one.
The judgment of the court below is accordingly
Aflrmed.
M R. JusTIoE BREWER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE

FIELD, MR. JusTron JACKSON, and Mm. JUSTICE WHITE, dissenting.

I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in
this case. Reliance is placed in that opinion on -Munn v.
Ilinois, 94 U. S. 113, and Budd v. New York, 143 U. S.
517. In the dissenting opinion I filed in the latter case, I
expressed, so far as was necessary, my views in reference to
the general propositions laid down in the two cases, and I do
not desire to repeat what I there said. It is a significant fact
that in S&nking Fund Cmaes, 99 U. S.700, 747, and in Walasv,
St. Zouis & Pacific Railway v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, 569,
Mr. Justice Bradley and Mr. Justice Miller, who concurred in
the judgment in 3lunn v. Illinois, each sought to limit and
qualify the scope of the language used by the Chief Justice in
that case. These are the words of Mr. Justice Bradley:
"The inquiry there was as to the extent of the police power

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Jackson, White, JJ.

in cases where the public interest is affected; and we held that
when an employment or business becomes a matter of such
public interest and importance as to create a common charge
or burden upon the citizen; in other words, when it becomes
a practical monopoly, to which the citizen is compelled to
resort, and by means of which a tribute can be exacted from
the community, it is subject to regulation by the legislative
power."
And this is the language of Mr. Justice liller, delivering
the opinion of the court:
"And in that case the court was presented with the question, which it decided, whether any one engaged in a public
business, in which all the public had a right to require his
service, could be regulated by acts of the legislature in the
exercise of this public function and public duty, so far as
to limit the amount of charges that should be made for such
services."
I desire, however, specially to notice the facts disclosed by
this record, and to point out to what extent the decision of
this court now goes. The case, coming, from the Supreme
Court of the State of North Dakota, must be determined upon
the record as it is presented. Nothing can be added to or
taken from the facts as established by that record. The case
was heard and determined upon a demurrer to the return
made by the defendant to the petition and writ of mandamus,
and of course upon such demurrer the facts stated in the return
are to be taken as true. From that return it appears that
along the line of the Great Northern Railroad in the State of
North Dakota there are about six hundred grain elevators;
that at Grand Harbor, a small way station on the line of that
road, there are three elevators, one of them being that ovned
by the defendant; that defendant's elevator is a small one,
with a capacity of 30,000 bushels, and costing about $3000.
For aught that appears, the elevator was on the private property of the defendant, though contiguous to the railroad, and
at the railroad station. It is further admitted:
"That respondent's principal business is that of buying
wheat at Grind Harbor, North Dakota, and shipping the

BRASS v. STOESER.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Jackson, White, JJ.

same to and selling it at Minneapolis and Duluth, Minnesota,
to which the business of storing grain for third persons is and
always has been a mere incident.
"That all grain purchased by respondent at his said elevator
is purchased for the sole purpose of being shipped to and sold
at and is shipped to and sold at Minneapolis and Duluth, Minnesota.
"'
That respondent in the conduct of his said business contracts with millers and other purchasers of grain at said Minneapolis and Duluth to sell and deliver to said persons at a
future and fixed date certain quantities of wheat, and operates
and maintains his said elevator for the exclusive purpose of
purchasing grain to fill said contracts.
"That in seasons when the grain yield is light and railroad
facilities are such as to enable grain to be moved rapidly there
is space and storage capacity in respondent's elevator in excess
of that used by respondent's grain, and particularly when respondent's contracts for the sale of grain are small, while at
other times, when the yield is enormous, as in the present
year, respondent's contracts large, and the quantities of grain
presented for shipment are beyond the capacity of the railroads to move, there is not sufficient storage capacity in respondent's elevator to hold and store the grain purchased by
respondent in the conduct of his said business.
"That if chapter 126 of the Laws of 1891 is valid, and its
effect is to compel respondent to receive all grain that may be
tendered to him for storage by grain commission men, farmers,
grain speculators, and others, without reference to the necessities or condition of respondent's business at any particular time,
the entire storage capacity of respondent's elevator will be exhausted in storing grain for third persons, and the principal
business of respondent, to conduct which his capital was invested in said elevator, will be utterly ruined and annihilated
for want of storage capacity to contain wheat purchased by
him to fill contracts made by him in the conduct of his said
business, and respondent subjected to suits for damages for
non-fulfilment of his said contracts."
The rates which were established by law were as follows:

OCTOBER TERMN, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Jackson, White, JJ.

"I. For receiving, elevating, insuring, delivering, and twenty
days' storage, two cents per bushel.
"2. After twenty days, one-half cent per bushel for each
fifteen days or part thereof, but not to exceed five cents for
six months."
It appears from these admissions that the principal business
of defendant was that of buying wheat and shipping it to
Minneapolis and Duluth for sale, and that he operated and
maintained his elevator for the exclusive purpose of purchasing grain to fill his contracts; and while at the time the
elevator was not full and there was room for the storage of
the grain tendered by the petitioner, and the defendant had
at times used vacant space in his elevator for the storage of
grain of others, yet such use was a mere incident to and subordinate to his principal business of buying and selling grain,
for which principal business he exclusively maintained and
operated his elevator.
Now, my first objection is that by this decision a party is
compelled by the mandate of the court to engage in a business which he never intended to engage in, and which he does
not desire to engage in, to wit, the business of maintaining a
public elevator. His business is that of buying and selling
grain, and he operates and maintains the elevator, which he
owns, for the exclusive purpose of carrying on that business.
That he may have sometimes accommodated his neighbors
by the use of his elevator for the storage of their grain, and
thus to a limited extent engaged in that business, does not
change the fact, as admitted, that his principal business was
that of buying and selling, and that he operated and maintained that elevator exclusively for the carrying on of that
business, or the other admitted fact that, if he is compelled,
as he is compelled by this mandate, to receive grain as tendered so long as he has storage capacity unoccupied in his
elevator, his principal business and that for which he built
the elevator will be utterly ruined and destroyed.
The question is not whether, if he should receive and store
in his elevator grain for others, he might not so far bring himself within the scope of the law as to be deemed for that

BRASS v. STOESER.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Jackson, White, JJ.

transaction engaged in the business of maintaining a public
elevator, and thus bound by the charges fixed by statute; but
whether, when he maintains an elevator exclusively for his
own business, the fact that at times he has used vacant room
in it for the storage of the grain of other persons, compels
him to receive grain when tendered irrespective of the injury
which it does to his own business. And it is admitted that,
at the time of this tender, there was not sufficient storage
capacity in his elevator to hold and store the grain purchased
by him in the conduct of his business. And this is a matter
of no trifling moment to one engaged in the business of buying and selling grain. He cannot know in advance when grain
will be tendered at a price which will justify his purchase
with a view to profit. The fact that to-day there may be
storage capacity does not prove that to-morrow he may not
need the entire capacity of his elevator. And yet, if, because
to-day there is room in his elevator, he is bound to receive any
grain that shall be tendered, he may to-morrow be unable to
make purchase of the offered grain. It is a matter of common
knowledge that grain is not put into and taken out of an
elevator in an instant. And if once deposited the owner cannot be compelled to remove it, merely for the accommodation
of the warehouseman, but may leave it there indefinitely so
long as he pays the legal charges. The petition was for a writ
of mandamus commanding the defendant "so long as the
capacity of his said elevator is sufficient for the purpose, to
store such grain as may be tendered to him by the relator,"
and the decree of the court was that the "writ issue as prayed
for," and that is the decision which is affirmed by this court.
I dissent in the second place because the facts show, in the
words of Mr. Justice Bradley, no "practical monopoly, to
which the citizen is compelled to resort, and by means of
which a tribute can be exacted from the community." Along
the line of this single road within the limits of this State there
are about six hundred of these elevators, owned and operated
by over one hundred and twenty-five different persons, varying in cost of construction from $500 to $5000; at every station there is land purchasable by any one at prices varying

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Field, Jackson, White, JJ.

from $1.25 to $40 per acre, and a granary sufficient to store theaverage product of an ordinary Dakota farm can be erected at
a cost of not exceeding $150. So it is that when any farmer or
other individual can at a cost of less than $200 provide himself
with all the facilities for storing and shipping the entire product.
of an ordinary farm, when along the line of a single railroad
there are six hundred elevators already constructed, owned,.
and operated by one hundred and twenty-five different persons, when at every station at which grain is marketed there
are from two to ten such elevators, it is held that there exists
a monopoly such as justifies control by the public of the prices.
at which grain shall be stored in any one of these many elevators. If this be a monopoly, justifying public control of
prices for service, I am at a loss to perceive at what point thefact of monopoly will cease and freedom of business commence.
For obviously elevators along the line of that road were as plentiful as other institutions of industry, and as easily and cheaply
constructed, and therefore savoring no more of monopoly.
I dissent in the third place because by this law the elevator
man is bound not merely to receive, store, and discharge thegrain which is tendered to him, but also to insure and pay the
cost of insurance, it matters not what that cost may be, whethermore or less than he receives for the whole service. I do not
care to enlarge upon this matter. If the legislature can compel a party, though confessedly to the disadvantage, injury,
and even destruction of his own special business of buying and
selling grain, to receive and store grain for whoever may demand it in an elevator which he is maintaining and operating
for the exclusive carrying on of his own business at any price
which it sees fit to allow, and at the same time compel him to
advance the money to insure the property thus forced upon
him, I can only say that it seems to me that the country is
rapidly travelling the road which leads to that point where all
freedom of contract and conduct will be lost. For these reasons, thus briefly stated, I am constrained to dissent from this
opinion and judgment.
I am authorized to say that Mr.. JUSTICE FIELD, MR. JUSTICE
JACKSON, and MR.JUSTICE WHITE concur in this dissent.

