OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ASHLEY v. RYAN.
ERROR To THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 888. Argued and submitted April 26, 1894. - Decided May 14, 1894.

If several railroad corporations, each existing under the laws of separate
States, consolidate into one corporation, a statute of one of the States,
imposing a charge upon the new consolidated company of a percentage
on its entire authorized stock as the fee to the State for the filing of the
articles of consolidation in the office of the Secretary of State of the
State, without which filing it could not possess the powers, immunities,
and privileges which appertain to a corporation in that State, is not a
tax on interstate commerce, or the right to carry on the same, or the
instruments thereof; and its enforcement involves no attempt on the
part of the State to extend its taxing power beyond its territorial
limits.
A State, in permitting a foreign corporation to become one of the constituent elements of a consolidated corporation, organized under its laws,
may impose such conditions as it deems proper, and the acceptance of
the franchise implies a submission to the conditions without which the
franchise could not have been obtained.

THE Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railroad Company,
which owned and operated lines running through the States
of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, and Michigan, having defaulted in the payment of interest on its bonds, foreclosure
proceedings were commenced in the Federal courts for the
sale of its property. Subsequently a committee was entrusted
with the duty of buying in the property. After purchase by
the committee the property in the several States was transferred to companies incorporated in those States. The following were the companies thus organized, and to whom the
necessary transfers were respectively made:
In Ohio: The Toledo and Western; capital stock, $700,000.
In Michigan: The Detroit and State Line Wabash; capital
stock, $300,000.
In Indiana: The Wabash Eastern, of Indiana; capital stock,
$9,000,000.

ASHLEY v. RYAN.
Statement of the Case.

In Illinois: The Wabash Eastern, of Illinois; capital stock,
$12,000,000.
In Missouri: The Wabash Western; capital stock, $30,000,000.
Thereafter these several companies were consolidated into
one. Section 148a of the Revised Statutes of Ohio contains,
among other provisions, the following:
"The Secretary of State shall hereafter charge and collect
the following fees for official services:
"1. For filing the articles of incorporation of any corporation whose capital stock is ten thousand dollars or under, ten
dollars ; of a corporation whose capital stock is over ten thousand dollars, one-tenth of one per cent upon the authorized
capital stock of such corporation.
"2. For filing a certificate of increase of the capital stock
of any corporation having a capital stock where the amount
of the increase is ten thousand dollars or under, ten dollars;
where the amount of increase is over ten thousand dollars,
one-tenth of one per cent. upon the proposed amount of increased capital.
"3. For filing articles of agreements of consolidation of
corporations having a capital stock, the following fees shall
be collected by the Secretary of State: Said articles or agreements of consolidation shall be treated as the articles of incorporation of the new consolidated corporations created by
such articles or agreements of consolidation, and the fees for
filing such articles or agreements of consolidation shall be
the same in each case as is hereinbefore set forth for the filing
of articles of incorporation of a corporation having the same
amount of capital stock, as is provided for by the articles or
agreements of consolidation for the new consolidated corporation, created by any such articles or agreement of consolidation; and in fixing the amount of such fees, no credit shall
be all'owed for fees previously paid by any of the constituent
corporations, parties to such consolidation, but the same shall
be determined solely by the amount of capital stock of the
new corporation created by such articles or agreements of
consolidation."
By another provision of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

fees to be collected under the foregoing law were required
to be paid by the Secretary of State into the Treasury.
The plaintiffs in error presented their articles of consolidation, for filing, to the Secretary of State, and tendered $700,
that being one-tenth of one per cent on the capital stock of
the Toledo and Western Railroad, the only Ohio corporation
which had entered into the consolidation. The secretary
refused to file the proffered articles for that amount, and demanded $52,000, or one-tenth of one per cent of the par value
of the entire stock of the consolidated corporation. This
amount was paid under protest, and suit was at once brought
to recover all the excess paid over and above the $700
originally tendered, upon the ground that such excess had
been collected without warrant of law; that it constituted a
tax for the general purposes of revenue, and, therefore, its
exaction was contrary to the constitution and laws of the
State of Ohio; and, moreover, that its enforcement would
violate the Constitution of the United States, because it
would be an attempt on the part of the State of Ohio to lay
a burden on interstate commerce, or the instruments of such
commerce, and to give an extra-territorial force to its taxing
power.
Pending the controversy, an injunction issued restraining
the Secretary of State from covering into the state Treasury
the sum which had been paid him under protest. The cause
was ultimately taken to the Supreme Court of the State of
Ohio, and by that court the judgment which maintained the
validity of the charge was affirmed. The plaintiffs in error
thereupon brought the cause here for review.
-Mr. Hen y Crawford for plaintiffs in error submitted on his
brief.
I. No technical objections prevent recovery.
II. The law under which the charge was exacted is not a
police regulation, but an attempted exercise of the taxing
power of the State, and its construction and validity must be
adjudged exclusively on that theory.
III. This court should limit the scope of the law and con-

ASHLEY v. RYAN.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

strue it not to authorize the imposition of a unit franchise or
organization tax, rated upon the aggregate capital stocks of
combined domestic and foreign corporations.
When local courts interpret state laws so as to injuriously
affect interests lying outside its boundaries, the courts of the
United States are not compelled to accept such construction,
but are at liberty to fix their own interpretation on the
statute. Pennoyer v. Yef, 95 U. S. 714; Pana v. Bowler,
107 U. S. 529; Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S. 338; Wilson v.
Seligman, 144 U. S. 41.
In considering the true meaning of a Virginia statute taxing railways, this court held: "The terms of the act, indeed,
include every railroad and canal company not exempt from
taxation by virtue of its charter, but that language, according
to a general rule .of interpretation, must be confined to corporations deriving their authority from the laws of Virginia."
Xlarye v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,127 U. S.117.
IV. Under the law as construed by the state court the tax
under challenge is in part illegal because it is a unit charge
mainly laid upon incorporations and franchises not created or
granted by Ohio, or upon business operations carried on outside its boundaries.
"If the legislature of a State should enact that the citizens or property of another State or country should be
taxed in the same manner as the persons and property within
its own limits and subject to its authority, or in any other
manner whatsoever, such a law would be as much a nullity as
if in conflict with the most explicit constitutional inhibition.
Jurisdiction is as necessary to valid legislation as to valid
judicial action." St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, 430.
Recognizing that in such cases the taxing jurisdiction of a
State is not exclusive, but concurrent with other States, the
assessment of public charges against this class of corporations
has always been levied only upon the State's proportional
share of the whole property, franchise, stock, or earnings.
Delawar'e Railroad Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206; Erie Railway
v. Pennsylvania, 21 Wall. 492; State Railro'ad Tax Cases,
92 U. S. 575, 610; Telegraph Oo. v. Texas, 105 U. S.460;

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

WTest. Un. Tel. Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530; Pullman
Palace Ca Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Horn Silver
.Mining Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305; Jfaine v. Grand
T'unk Railway, 142 U. S. 217.
V. Upon the theory that the entire organization tax of
$52,000 was assessed only upon the Ohio constituent of the
interstate copartnership, the exaction plainly imp 6 ses an unequal and discriminating burden in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Mr. J. K. Richards, Attorney General of the State of
Ohio, for defendant in error.
M,. JuswicE WEirrE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
With the question whether the sum paid was authorized by
the Ohio statutes, or constituted a fee, a license, or a tax, under
the Ohio laws and constitution, we are not concerned. The
writ of error brings before us only the Federal question.
Watson, v. fercer, 8 Pet. 88; Bavrier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.
27. Nor does the determination of the Federal question
render it necessary to define the nature of the charge imposed; for, whether this charge be viewed as a tax, a license,
or a fee, if its exaction violated the interstate commerce clause
of the Constitution of the United States, or involved the assertion
of the right of a State to exercise its powers of taxation beyond
its geographical limits, it was void, whatever might be the
technical character affixed to the exaction.
The purpose of the tender of the articles of consolidation to
the Secretary of State was to secure to the consolidated company certain powers, immunities, and privileges which appertain to a corporation under the laws of Ohio. The rights
thus sought could only be acquired by the grant of the State
of Ohio, and depended for their existence upon the provisions
of its laws. Without that State's consent they could not have
been procured.
Revised Statutes of Ohio, sections 3239,
3382, and 3381 b, amended by act of April 11, 1890, 87 Ohio

ASHLEY- v. RYAN.
Opinion of the Court.

Laws, 183, 184. Hence, in seeking to file its articles of incorporation, the company was applying for privileges, immunities,
and powers which it could by no means possess, save by the
grace and favor of the constitution of the State of Ohio and
the statutory provisions passed in accordance therewith. At
the time the articles were presented for filing, the statute law
of the State charged the parties with notice that the benefits
which it was sought to procure could not be obtained without
payment of the sum which the Secretary of State exacted.
As it was within the discretion of the State to withhold or
grant the privilege of exercising corporate existence, it was,
as a necessary resultant, also within its power to impose whatever conditions it might deem fit as prerequisite to corporate
life. The act of filing, constituting, as it did, a claim of a
right to the franchise granted by the 'state law, carried with
it a voluntary assumption of any burden with which the privi.
lege was accompanied, and without which the right of corpo.
rate existence could not have been procured. We say voluntary
assumption, because, as the claim to the franchise was volun
tary, the assumption of the privilege which resulted from it
partook necessarily of the nature of the claim for corporate
existence. Having thus accepted the act of grace of the
State and taken the- advantages which sprang from it, the
company cannot be permitted to bold on to the privilege or
right granted, and at the same time repudiate the condition
by the performance of which it could alone obtain the privilege which it sought.
That the right to be a state corporation depends solely
upon the grace of the State, and is not a right inherent in
the parties is settled. Thus, in Californiav. Pacifc Railroad
Co., 127 U. S. 1, 40, speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley,
the court said: "A franchise is a right, privilege, or power of
public concern, which ought not to be exercised by private
individuals at their mere will and pleasure, but should be reserved for public control and administration. .
.
Under
our system, their existence and disposal are under the control
of the legislative department of the government, and they
cannot be assumed or exercised without legislative authority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

No private person can take another's property, even,
for public use, without such authority; which is the same as.
to say, that the right of eminent domain can only be exercised
by virtue of a legislative grant. This is a franchise. No persons can make themselves a body corporate and politic without
legislative authority. Corporate capacity is a franchise. The
list might be continued indefinitely."
In Home Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594, 599,.
through Mr. Justice Field, we said: "The right or privilegeto be a corporation, or to do business as such body, is one generally deemed of value to the corporators, or it would not besought in such numbers as at present. It is a right or privilege
by which several individuals may unite themselves under a
common name, and act as a single person with a succession of
members, without dissolution or suspension of business and
with a limited individual liability. The granting of such
right or privilege rests entirely in the discretion of the
State."
These citations only, reiterate principles established beyond
controversy by a series of decisions. Bank of Augusta v.
E qle, 13 Pet. 519; -Lafayette Insuravce Co. v. French, 1&
How. 404; Paul y. Virginia,8 Wall. 168; -Ducatv. Ohicago,
10 Wall. 410..
Nor is the question at issue affected by the fact that someof the constituent elements which entered into the consolidated
company were corporations owning and operating property in
another State. The power of corporations of other States to.
become corporations, or to constitute themselves a consolidated
corporation under the Ohio statutes, and thus avail of therights given thereby, is as completely dependent on the will
of that State as is the power of its individual citizens to become
a corporate body, or the power of corporations of its own creation to consolidate under its laws. Bank of Augusta v. Earle,
supra; Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French, supra; Paul v.
Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 181.
In the latter case, speaking through Mr. Justice Field, we
observed: "Now a grant of a corporate existence is a grant
of special privileges to the corporators, enabling them to act

ASHLEY v. RYAN.

443

Opinion of the Court.

for certain designated purposes as a single individual, and
exempting them (unless otherwise specially provided) from
individual liability. The corporation, being the mere creation
of local law, can have no legal existence beyond the limits of
the sovereignty where created. As said by this court in Bank
of Augusta v. Earle, ' It must dwell in the place of its creation, and cannot migrate to another sovereignty.' The recognition of its existence, even, by other States, and the
enforcement of its contracts made therein depend purely
upon the comity of these States - a comity which is never
extended where the existence of the corporation or the exercise of its powers are prejudicial to their interests or repugnant to their policy.

.

.

At the present day corporations

are multipled to an almost indefinite extent. There is scarcely
a business pursued requiring the expenditure of large capital,
or the union of large numbers, that is not carried on by corporations. It is not too much to say that the wealth and
business of the country are to a great extent controlled by
them. And if, when composed of citizens of one State, their
corporate powers and franchises could be exercised in other
States without restriction, it is easy to see that, with the
advantages thus possessed, the most important business of
those States would soon pass into their hands. The principal
business of every State would, in fact, be controlled by corporations created by other States."
It follows from these principles that a State, in granting a
corporate privilege to its own citizens, or, what is equivalent
thereto, in permitting a foreign corporation to become one of
the constituent elements of a consolidated corporation organized
under its laws, may impose such conditions as it deems proper,
and that the acceptance of the franchise in either case implies
a submission to the conditions without which the franchise
could not have been obtained. In Paul v. Virginia, supra,
the court said, p. 181: "Having no absolute right of recognition in other States, but depending for such recognition and
the enforcement of its contracts upon their assent, it follows,
as a matter of course, that such assent may be granted upon
such terms and conditions as those States may think proper

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to impose. They may exclude the foreign corporation entirely;
they may restrict its business to particular localities, or they
may exact such security for the performance of its contracts
with their citizens as in their judgment will best promote the
public interest."
In the case of the Railroad Co. v. Maryland, 21 Wall. 456,
472, considering a grant by the State of Maryland to a rail"road company of a right to build a branch from Baltimore to
Washington, upon condition that the company should pay
semi-annually to the State one-fifth of the amount received
from the transportation of passengers over the road authorized,
the court spoke as follows: "The State could have built the
road itself and charged any rate it chose, and could thus have
filled the coffers of its treasury without being questioned
therefor. How does the case differ, in a constitutional point
of view, when it authorizes its private citizens to build the
road and reserves for its own use a portion of the earnings?
We are unable to see any distinction between the two cases.
In our judgment there is no solid distinction. If the State,
as a consideration of the franchise, had stipulated that it
should have all the passenger-money, and the corporation
should have only the freight for the transportation of merchandise, and the corporation had agreed to those terms, it
would have been the same thing. It was simply the exercise
by the State of absolute control over its own property and
prerogatives." And the contention that the charge imposed
a burden upon interstate commerce was thus answered: "It
may, incidentally, affect transportation, it is true; but so does
every burden or tax imposed on corporations or persons
engaged in that business. Such burdens, however, are imposed diverso intuitu, and in the exercise of an undoubted
power. The State is conceded to possess the power to tax its
corporations, and yet every tax imposed on a carrier corporation affects more or less the charges it is compelled to make
upon its customers. So, the State has an undoubted power to
exact a bonus for the grant of a franchise, payable in advance
or in futu'ro; and yet that bonus will necessarily affect the
charge upon the public which the donee of the franchise will

ASHLEY v. RYAN.
Opinion of the Court.

be obliged to impose. The stipulated payment in this case,
indeed, is nothing more or less than a bonus."
In J ucat v. Chicago, supra, the court said: "The only difference between the statute of Virginia and that of Illinois is
that the latter is more onerous to the companies than the former. The difference is in degree, not in principle." That
was a case in which an insurance company was not only required to comply with the general law of the State of Illinois,
but also to pay a portion of its premium to the city of Ohicago
as a condition of doing business therein.
The case of Philadelphia Fire Association v. lNew 1"ork,
119 U. S. 110, 119, involved the validity of a tax imposed by
the State of New York on an insurance company which had
been incorporated in Pennsylvania. Mr. Justice Blatchford,
in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "This Pennsylvania corporation came into the State of New York to do
business by the consent of the State under this act of 1853,
with a license granted for a year, and has received such license
annually, to run for a year. It is within the State for any
given year under such license, and subject to the conditions
prescribed by statute. The State, having the power to exclude entirely, has the power to change the conditions ol
admission at any time, for the future, and to impose as a condition the payment of a new tax or a further tax as a license
fee. If it imposes such license fee as a prerequisite for the
future, the foreign corporation, until it pays such license fee, is
not admitted within the State or within its jurisdiction. It is
outside, at the threshold, seeking admission, with consent not
yet given."
Indeed, the cases illustrating this doctrine are too numerous
for review, and need only be referred to. Societyfor Savings
v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Provident Institution v. .Massachusetts,
6 Wall. 611; Harmilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 632;
State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Railroad
Co. v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; Delaware Railroad Tax Case, 18
Wall. 206 ; State RailroadTax Cases, 92 U. S. 575 ; Philadelphia & Southerz Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S.
326; California v. Pacifc Railroad Co., 127 U. S. 1; Home

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

.

Statement of the Case.

Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; jMaine v. Grand
Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217.
The question here is not the power of the State of Ohio to
lay a charge on interstate commerce, or to prevent a foreign
corporation from engaging in interstate commerce within its
confines, but simply the right of the State to determine upon
what conditions its laws as to the consolidation of corporations
may be availed of.
Considering, as we do, that the payment of the charge was
a condition imposed by the State of Ohio upon the taking of
corporate being or the exercise of corporate franchises, the
right to which depended solely on the will of that State, and
hence that liability for the charge was entirely optional, we
conclude that the exaction constituted no tax upon interstate
commerce, or the right to carry on the same, or the instruments thereof, and that its enforcement involved no attempt
on the part of the State to extend its taxing power beyond its
Jugment afflrmed.
territorial limits.

EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY v. OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 1051.

Argued April 20, 1894. -Decided

May14, 1804.

A state statute, requiring insurance companies to make full and specified
returns to the proper state officers of their business condition, liabilities,
losses, premiums, taxes, dividends, expenses, etc., is an exercise of the
police power of the State, and may be enforced against a company
organized under a special charter from the legislature of the State, which
does not in terms require it to make such return, without thereby depriving it of any of its rights under the Constitution of the United States.

THE Insurance Company, plaintiff in error, was incorporated
on March 22, 1850, by an act of the General Assembly of
Ohio,1 48 Ohio Laws, 498. Sections 3654 and 3655 of the
Revised Statutes of Ohio read as follows:
"

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CrNCINNATI.

"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio, That
George Crawford, Timothy Griffith, Isaac C. Copelen, William Wood, Henry

