ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1044. Submitted April 23, 1894. -- Decided May 14,1894.

Under a will, by which the testator devises and bequeathes to his wife
"all my estate, real and personal, of which I may die seized, the same
to be and remain hers, with full power, right and authority to dispose of
the same as to her shall seem most meet and proper, so long as she shall
remain my widow, upon the express condition, however, that if she
should marry again, then it is my will that all of the estate herein bequeathed, or whatever may remain, should go to my surviving children,
share and share alike," the widow has power during widowhood to convey to third persons an estate in fee simple in his lands.
Giles v. Little, 104 U. S. 291, overruled; and Little v. Giles, 25 Nebraska,
313, followed.

THIs was an action of ejectment, brought June 11, 1881, by
Walter F. Lewis against Artemas Roberts, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Nebraska, to recover possession of six lots in the town of South Lincoln, in
the county of Lancaster and State of Nebraska. The Circuit
Court gave judgment for the plaintiff, and the case was taken
by writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, which certified to this court the following
facts :
On May 10, 1869, Jacob Dawson duly made his last will,
which was duly admitted to probate in 1869 after his death,
.and which, omitting the formal parts, was as follows:
"After all my lawful debts are paid and discharged, the
residue of my estate, real and personal, I give and bequeath
and dispose of as follows, to wit: To my beloved wife, Editha
J. Dawson, I give and bequeath all my estate, real and personal, of which I may die seized, the same to be and remain
hers, with full power, right and authority to dispose of the
same as to her shall seem most meet and proper, so long as
.she shall remain my widow, upon the express condition, how-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ever, that if she should marry again, then it is my will that
all of the estate herein bequeathed, or whatever may remain,
should go to my surviving children, share and share alike,
and in case any of my children should have deceased leaving
issue, then the issue so left to receive the share to which said
child would be entitled. I likewise make, constitute and
appoint my said wife, Editha J., to be executrix of this my
last will and testament, hereby revoking all former wills made
by me."
At the time of his death, he had a perfect title to the lots
in controversy in this suit. On March 15, 1870, Editha J.
Dawson conveyed these lots by warranty deed to Paran England, who, on December 15, 1871, conveyed them by warranty
deed to Roberts, the plaintiff in error. On December 11, 1879,
Editha J. Dawson married Henry M. Pickering. On September 15, 1879, the children of Jacob Dawson made a warranty
deed of these lots to Hiland H. Wheeler and Lionel C. Burr;
and Wheeler and Burr afterufards made a warranty deed
thereof to Ezekiel Giles, who, in May, 1887, conveyed them by
warranty deed to Lewis, the defendant in error.
While the title in these lots was vested in Giles as aforesaid,
he brought an action claiming under that title to recover another lot in the same county, which had belonged to Jacob
Dawson at the time of his death, against one Little, who
claimed under a deed executed by Editha J. Dawson during
her widowhood. That case was brought by writ of error to
this court, which held at October term, 1881, that under the
will of Jacob Dawson his widow only took "an estate for
life in the testator's lands, subject to be divested on her
ceasing to be his widow, with power to convey her qualified
life estate only," and that "her estate in the land and that of
her grantees determined on her marriage with Pickering."
Giles v. Little, 104 U. S. 291.
After that decision, but whether before or after the aforesaid deed from Giles to Lewis did not appear, a suit was
brought in the district court of Lancaster county by various
grantees of the widow against Giles to quiet their title against
the title claimed by Giles under the aforesaid deed from the

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
Counsel for Parties.

children of Jacob Dawson; and was taken by appeal to the
Supreme Court of Nebraska, which held that the will of Jacob
Dawson, under the statutes of the State of Nebraska, enabled
his widow, prior to her remarriage, to convey an estate in fee
simple in any of the lands whereof her deceased husband had
died seized. Little v. Giles, 25 Nebraska, 313.
Upon these facts, the Circuit Court of Appeals duly certified to this court the following questions or propositions of
law:
"First. In determining the nature of the estate that be-came vested in said Editha J. Dawson under said will of her
deceased husband, Jacob Dawson, in and to lands situated in
the State of Nebraska, whereof said Jacob Dawson died
seized and possessed, should the Circuit Court of Appeals be
governed by the decision of the Supreme Court of the United
States in Giles v. Little, 104 U. S. 291, 300, or by the subse,quent decision of the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska
in Little v. Giles, 25 Nebraska, 313, 334?
"Second. Did the aforesaid will of Jacob Dawson vest his
widow with such an estate in lands whereof the testator died
seized, situated in the State of Nebraska, that during her
widowhood she could convey to third parties an estate in fee
simple therein?
"Third. Should the construction of the will of Jacob Dawson, deceased, which was adopted by the Supreme Court of
the United States in Giles v. Little, 104 U. S. 291, be adhered
to by the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit in determining the right of Walter F. Lewis
in and to the property heretofore described, in view of the
fact that said Walter F. Lewis purchased said property subse•quently to the promulgation of said decision in Giles v. Little,
and prior to the decision of the Supreme Court of the State
of Nebraska in the case of Little v. Giles, 25 Nebraska, 313 ?"
Mr. /.
-error.
.M'.
error.

. tHarwood and -Mr. John

. Ames for plaintiff in

31. Woolworth and 3fr. 1. C. Burr for defendant in
VOL. oCmi-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

The general rule is that the laws of the several States shall
be regarded as rules of decision in the Federal courts in cases
to which they apply, except where the Constitution, treaties,
or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide.
In trials at common law this is prescribed by statute. In
suits in equity and admiralty, it has been established by a
long course of decisions. It is of equal force and application
in all the jurisdictions of the Federal courts.
But stated in these general terms, the rule leaves many
interesting questions. One, and a radical one, is what are the
laws of the several States which shall be rules of decision in
the Federal courts. The cases do not show that this court
has ever yielded its judgment to that of a state court when
it has deliberately spoken first. The question always being
what is the local law, this court always, in obedience to the
spirit of the general rule, accepts the exposition of it by the
local court, if such exposition has been given. But if this
court is, by the exigencies of an orderly litigation, first called
on to determine the local law and it does so, it does not yield
its judgment to that of a local court afterwards pronounced,
save only when, as in all othdr cases, it becomes satisfied upon
its own independent examination that it has fallen into error.
Groves v. Slaughter', 15 Pet. 449; Rowan v. Runnels, 5 How.
134. In the latter case Chief Justice Taney, after examining
the decision in the former case, said: "It now appears, however, that the question has since been brought before the
courts of the State, and it has been settled by its highest
tribunals that the clause in the constitution above referred to
did of itself, and without any legislative enactment, prohibit
the introduction of slaves as merchandise and for sale, and
render all contracts for the sale of such slaves made after
May 1, 1833, illegal and void. And it is argued that inasmuch as this court adopts the construction given by the state
courts to their own constitution and laws, we ought to follow
the decisions in Mississippi, and declare the case before us to
be void, notwithstanding the case of Groves v. Slaughter. But
we are not aware of any decision in this court which presses
the rule so far, or that would justify this court in declaring

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

contracts to be void upon this ground, which, upon the fullest
consideration, it has so recently held to be good."
In Pease v. Pecle, 18 How. 595, Mr. Justice Grier, delivering the opinion of the court, discussed somewhat at large this
question, and at pages 598, 599, said: "But when this court
has first decided a question arising under state laws, we do
not feel bound to surrender our convictions, on account of a
contrary subsequent decision of a state court, as in the case of
.Rowan v. Rtunnes, 5 How. 139." See also -Morgan v. Curtenius, 20 How. 1.
The case which must always be considered as concluding
this question is Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S.20, 35. It has
been cited with approval in every case which has since been
before the Federal Supreme Court, and in which, in any of its
phases, the question has been presented. The opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Bradley was the unanimous judgment of
the court. That great judge brought his best powers to the
subject. His examination of the decisions was exhaustive, as
is shown by the citation in the margin of almost every previous case; his discrimination was characteristic, and his expressions were as exact and pregnant and strong as in any of his
judicial writings.
Upon the point now under discussion the opinion is familiar
to the court, and need not be quoted at length. The explication of it concludes with these words: "In the present
case, as already observed, when the transaction in question
took place, and when the decision of the Circuit Court was
rendered, not only was there no settled construction of the
statute on the point under consideration, but the Missouri
cases referred to arose upon the identical transaction which
the Circuit Court was called upon and which we are now
called upon to consider. It can hardly be contended that the
Federal court was to wait for the state courts to decide the
merits of the controversy and then simply register their decision; or that the Circuit Court should be reversed merely because the state court has since adopted a different view. If
we could see fair and reasonable ground to acquiesce in that
view, we should gladly do so; but in the exercise of that inde-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

pendent judgment which it is our duty to apply to the case,
we are enforced to a different conclusion. Pease v. Peck, 18
How. 595, and Morgan v. Curtenius, 20 How. 1, in which the
opinions of the court were delivered by Mr. Justice Grier, are
precisely in point."
It would serve no useful purpose to cite other cases to the
same effect,' or to seek to support by any reasoning what may
be now considered one of the institutes of the law. There are
cases which are sometimes cited as holding another doctrine,
but an examination of their facts will show that they are
entirely consistent with the judgments cited above.
The controversy in the case of Williamson v. Suydam,
20 How. 427, was before the Federal court several times, and
an account of it will be useful. In 1802 Mary Clark died
seized of the lands in dispute, leaving a will devising the same
to Benjamin Moore and his wife, who was the daughter of
the testatrix, and Mrs. Maunsell in trust to receive the rents
and pay them to Thomas B. Clark, a grandson of the testatrix,,
during his lifetime, and at his death to his issue then living
in fee; and if he died without issue, then to Clement C. Moore
in fee. In 1814 the legislature of New York by an act discharged the trustees, on account of their inability to act from
infirmity of health and other causes, and empowered the court
of chancery to appoint others in their places, who should
divide the land into two equal parts, one of which they should
hold upon the trusts declared in the will, and to sell the other
and invest the proceeds, holding the principal for the same
uses and paying the interest to Thomas B. Clark. This
measure proving ineffectual for the purposes for which that
act was passed, in 1815 another was enacted authorizing him
to act as trustee and providing that no sale by him should be
effectual without the Chancellor's approval. Afterwards, in
that year, Chancellor Kent authorized Clark to sell the eastern
moiety. In 1816 another act was passed authorizing Clark,
under the Chancellor's order, to mortgage or sell the southern
moiety, applying the proceeds for the purposes required by the
Chancellor under the former acts. In 1817 the Chancellor
made an order accordingly authorizing Clark to convey any

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

part of the southern moiety in satisfaction of debts, upon a
valuation to be made as therein provided. In 1818 Clark conveyed the premises to McIntyre, under whom Suydam held.
During this time Clark had infant children. The legislation
and orders mentioned were obtained at his instance, with the
consent of all concerned except these infants. In 1826 Clark
died, leaving .these children. They sought to recover these
premises, claiming among other things that the act was unconstitutional, and the Chancellor's orders were void for that
reason, and because the orders were unauthorized by these
acts. This controversy was first raised in the state courts.
The action was ejectment. The lessor of the plaintiff, Moses
Field, claimed upon a mortgage made by Clark, and a decree
of foreclosure sale and master's deed; the defendant claimed
under a lease made by the original trustees. The validity of
the acts of the legislature and the orders of the Chancellor
was thus drawn in question, and the judgment was for the
plaintiff. The case was then taken to the court of errors and
is reported under the name of Sinclkr v. Jackson, in 8 Cowen,
543. The court declined to express an opinion upon the validity of the legislation and the judicial proceedings, deciding
the case on other grounds. This was in December, 1826.
The next case was Clark v. YanSurlay, 15 Wend. 436
(1836). This was also an ejectment brought by one of the
children of Thomas B. Clark. The defendant claimed under
the latter, acting under the acts and orders above mentioned.
The Supreme Court held the acts constitutional and valid, and
that the children could not question the validity of the Chancellor's orders in ejectment on the ground of excess of authority; and that they not being void, the remedy was in equity
or a court of review. The case was then carried to the court
of errors, where it is reported under the style of Cochran v.
JT anSurlay, in 20 Wend. 365; S. C. 32 Am. Dec. 570; (1838,)
the original plaintiff having married Cochran. Chancellor
Walworth delivered an opinion in favor of affirmance, and
Senator Verplanck against the same. Upon the vote seven
voted to reverse and twelve to affirm the judgment.
An action in ejectment was then brought in the New York

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

circuit by Mrs. Williamson, one of the children of Thomas 13.
Clark, against Barry, who claimed under the legislation and
orders and proceedings above mentioned and Clark's action
thereunder. The judges were divided in opinion, and the case
came to the Supreme Court on certificate made in 1846. Because of the difference between the members of the Court of
Errors, that court did not think itself concluded by opinion
of the latter, examined the question as an original one, and
found that the orders of the Chancellor were without jurisdiction, and that what was done under them was void. The
opinion of the court was delivered by Mr. Justice Wayne, in
the course of which he said that Judge Bronson, delivering
the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State in 15 Wend.,
said that the acts of the legislature did not give the Chancellor power to make the order; and that this may be gathered
from the opinion of Chancellor Walworth in the Court of
Error in 20 Wend., and is intimated by Senator Verplauck as
his strong impression. And then the learned judge states a
point of difference between this court and the state court, and
says: "Our conclusion, however, contrary to theirs, will be put
upon grounds not suggested when they acted upon this case."
The state court had held that a decree in chancery could not
be looked into in a collateral way for the purpose of setting aside rights growing out of it. Admitting the rule, it
was held that the jurisdiction of any court exercising authority over a subject may be inquired into in every other court.
Afterwards an action was brought in the Superior Court of
New York, presenting the same questions, and was carried to
the Court of Appeals. Towle v. Forney, 14 N. Y. 423 (1856).
The court, speaking by Denio, C. J., reviewed the judgments
reported in 15 Wend. and 20 Wend., and found that they settled the rule and refused to follow the judgment of the Federal court.
The case reported in 8 How. went back for a new trial,
which resulted in a judgment for the plaintiff. It was again
brought to the Supreme Court, and is reported under the title
of Suydam v. Willioamson, 24 How. 427 (1860). Mr. Justice
Campbell delivered the opinion. He showed that the state

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

court held that the rule was settled by the judgments reported
in 15 and 20 Wend., and it was bound to follow them instead
of that of this court. Because the state court had thus settled
the question, he held that under the circumstances this court
was bound to follow it.
The case came there again, and is reported in 6 Wall., but
what was then ruled is not material here.
In a long series of cases of various circumstances, this court,
in a jealous care of rights derived from contracts, has uniformly held that if the state courts have held a certain view
of the law upon which contracts have been made and rights
have been acquired, and afterwards they have changed their
decisions, they will not be followed in the Federal courts, in
cases to enforce those contracts, but the law of the State at
the time those rights were acquired will be rigidly applied.
.Mercer County v. Hacket, 1 Wall. 83; Gelpoke v. Dubuue, 1
Wall. 175 ;.Ilavemeyer v. Iowa County, 3 Wall. 294; Thornson v. Lee County, 3 Wall. 327; Jitchell v. Burlington, 4 Wall.
270; Lee County v. Rogers, 7 Wall. 181; City v. Lamson, 9
Wall. 477; Olcott v. The Supervisors, 16 Wall. 678; Douglass
v. County of Pike, 101 U. S. 677; Thompson v. Perrine, 103
U. S. 806; S.C. 106 U. S. 589; Pleasant Township v. tna
Ins. Co., 138 U. S. 67; Clark v. Bever, 139 U. S.96.
Counsel then contended that the construction given to the
will by this court in Giles v. Little, 104: U. S. 291, was correct;
citing, among other cases, Smith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68; Brant v.
VTirginia Coal Co., 93 U. S.326.
Mi .

JUSTicE

GuAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This certificate distinctly presents for decision the question
(argued, but not decided, when this case was before this court
at a former term, reported in 144 U. S.653) of the construction
of the will of Jacob Dawson, the material part of which was
as follows:
"To my beloved wife, Editha J. Dawson, I give and bequeath all my estate, real and personal, of which I may die

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

seized, the same to be and remain hers, with full power, right.,
and authority to dispose of the same as to her shall seem
most meet and proper, so long as she shall remain my widow,
upon the express condition, however, that if she should marry
again, then it is my will that all of the estate herein bequeathed,
or whatever may remain, should go to my surviving children,
share and share alike."
By the statutes of Nebraska, "every devise of land in any
will hereafter made shall be construed to convey all the
estate of the devisor therein, which he could lawfully devise,
unless it shall clearly appear by the will that the devisor intended to convey a less estate;" and "the term 'heirs,' or
other technical words of inheritance, shall not be necessary to
create or convey an estate in fee simple." Nebraska Comp.
Stat. c. 23, § 124; c. 73, § 49.
In the opinion delivered by this court in a former case
between different parties, and concerning other land, the second of those sections was not referred to, and the first was
before
imperfectly quoted (omitting the word "clearly"
"appear") and was treated as of no weight; and it was
held, reversing the decision of Judge Mc~rary in 2 McCrary,
370, that by the true construction of the will the widow
"took under it an estate for life in the testator's lands, subject to be divested on her ceasing to be his widow, with power
to convey her qualified life estate only;" and that "her
estate in the land and that of her grantees determined on her
Giles v. Iittle, 104 U. S. 299, 300.
marriage with Pickering"
The Supreme Court of Nebraska, in a subsequent case, considered those sections of the statute as controlling the construction of the will, and making it clear that the widow took
an estate in fee. Little v. Giles, 25 Nebraska, 321, 322.
That court was also of opinion that the gift over to the
children passed only that portion of the estate, real or personal, not disposed of by the widow during her widowhood;
and upon the whole case concluded "that the intention of the
testator was to empower his widow to convey all of his real
and personal estate, if she saw fit to do so, and, as she had
exercised this right and power before her remarriage, the

ROBERTS v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

grantees under her deeds acquired all the title of the testator
to such lands." 25 Nebraska, 327, 328, 334.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of the State appears to
have been formed upon full consideration of the difficulties of
the case; ana is entitled to great weight, especially upon the
construction of the statute of the State. Suydarm v. Williamson, 24: How. 427. And this court, on reconsideration of the
whole matter, with the aid of the various judicial opinions
upon the subject, and of the learned briefs of counsel, is of
opinion that the sound construction of this will, as to the
extent of the power conferred on the widow, is in accordance
with the conclusion of the state cburt, and not with the
former decision of this court, which must, therefore, be considered as overruled.
The testator's primary object manifestly was to provide for
his widow. He begins by giving her "all my estate, real and
personal," which of itself would carry a fee, unless restricted by
other words. Larmert v. Paine, 3 Cranch, 97. He then says
"to be and remain hers," which, upon any possible constructioh, secures to her the full use and enjoyment of the estate,
while she holds it. She is also vested, in the most comprehensive terms, "with full power, right and authority to dispose of
the same" (which, as no less title has yet been mentioned,
naturally means the whole estate) "as to her shall seem most
meet and proper, so long as she shall remain my widow."
This last clause, so far as it controls the previous words, has
full effect if construed as limiting the time during which the
widow may have the use and enjoyment of the estate, and the
power to dispose of it, and not restricting the subject to be
disposed of. The power thus conferred, therefore, in its own
terms, as well as by the general intent of the testator, gives
her during widowhood the right to sell and convey an absolute title in any part of the estate; for it would be difficult,
if not impossible, to obtain an adequate price for a title liable
to be defeated in the hands of the purchaser by the widow's
marrying again.
That the power was intended to be unlimited in this respect
appears, even more distinctly, by the terms of the next clause,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

by which, if she should marry again, the testator declares it
to be his will that "all of the estate herein bequeathed, or
whatever may remain, should go" to his surviving children.
By not using the technical word "remainder," or making the
devise over include the entire estate at all events, but carefully adding, after the words "all the estate herein bequeathed," the alternative "or whatever may remain" (which
would otherwise have no meaning) he clearly manifests his
intention to restrict the estate given to the children to whatever has not been disposed of by the widow; and there is
nothing upon the face of the will, nor are there any extrinsic
facts in this record, haiing any tendency to show that the
power of the widow is less absolute over the real estate than
over the personal property.
The cases of Smith v. Bell, 6 Pet. 68, and Brant v. Virginia
Coal Co., 93 U. S. 326, relied on in support of the opposite
conclusion, involved the construction of wills expressed in
different language from that now before the court.
In Smith v. Bell, the testator bequeathed "all his personal
estate," consisting principally of slaves, to his wife, "to and
for her own use and benefit and disposal absolutely, the remainder of said estate, after her decease, to be for the use
of" his son; and the decision was that the wife took a life
estate only, and the son a vested remainder. The wife bad
made no conveyance of the property; the words of the gift
over were the technical ones "the remainder of my estate,"
appropriately designating the whole estate after the wife's
death; and the court distinctly intimated that, if the will were
construed as giving the wife "the power to sell or consume
the whole personal estate during her life," a gift over of
"what remains at her death" would be "totally incompatible"
and "void for uncertainty." 6 Pet. 78. But in the case at
bar, the gift over is in express terms of "whatever may remain." If the intent expressed by these words can be carried
out, the children take only what has not been disposed of. If
the clause containing them is repugnant and void, the view
of the Supreme Court of Nebraska that the widow took an
estate in fee is fortified. See Howard v. Carusi, 109 U. S.
725; Potter v. Couch, 141 U. S. 296, 315, 316.

IOBERTS v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

In Brant v. Firginia Coal Co., the bequest which was held
to give a life estate, and no power to convey a fee, was only
of the testator's estate, real and personal, to his wife, "to have
and to hold during her life, and to do with as she sees proper
before her death." 93 U. S. 327.
The numerous cases cited in the briefs have been examined,
and show that the general current of authority in other courts
is in favor of our present conclusion; but, as they largely depend upon the phraseology of particular wills, it would serve
no useful purpose to discuss them in detail.
It is unnecessary to express a positive opinion upon the
question whether, under this will, the widow took an estate
in fee; for if she took a less estate with power to convey in
fee, the result of the case, and the answers to the questions
certified, must be the same as if she took an estate in fee
herself.
For the reasons above stated, this court is of opinion that
the will of Tacob Dawson did give his widow such an estate
in lands in Nebraska of which he died seized, that she could
during her widowhood convey to third persons an estate in
fee simple therein; and that the Circuit Court of Appeals, in
determining the nature of the estate vested in her by the will
insuch lands, should be governed, not by the former decision
of this court in Giles v. Little, 104: U. S.. 291, but by the decision of the Supreme Court of Nebraska in Little v. Giles, 25
Nebraska, 313.
The result is, that the first question certified must be
answered accordingly; that the second question must be answered in the affirmative; and that the third question must
be answered in the negative; and that these answers be
Oertifted to the Cirouit Court of Appeals.

