OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE COMPANY v.
CHARLESTON.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 1009. Submitted January 22, 1894. -Decided

May 14, 1894.

A city ordinance, made under power conferred by a state statute, imposing
a license of five hundred dollars upon a telegraph company which had
accepted the provisions of the act of July 24, 1866, c. 230, 14 Stat. 221,
upon business done exclusively within the city and not including any
business done to or from points without the State, and not including any
business done for the government of the United States, its officers or
agents, is an exercise of the police power and is not an interference
with interstate commerce.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr.1. S. Guernsey and -Mr.
T.Xl. ]ifordecai for appellant.
JMr. Charlme I glesby for appellees.
MM. JUSTICE SHIRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the first day of July, 1892, the Postal Telegraph Cable
Company, a corporation of the State -of New York, filed in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
South Carolina a bill of complaint against the city of Charleston, a municipal corporation of the State of South Carolina,
and William L. Campbell and Glenn E. Davis, citizens of the
State of South Carolina, and respectively sheriff and treasurer
of said city, seeking to restrain the collection of a license
imposed upon the said Postal Telegraph Cable Company by
an ordinance of the city council of Charleston. A preliminary
injunction was granted enjoining the defendants from proceeding to collect said license until the hearing of the cause
on its merits. Answers were filed by the city and by the
city treasurer and city sheriff, and issue was joined by repli-

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. CHARLESTON.

693

Opinion of the Court.

cations. The complainant put in evidence tending to sustain
the allegations of the bill.
The facts, as disclosed by the bill, answers, and evidence,
were substantially these:
The Postal Telegraph Cable Company, a corporation of the
State of :New York, has an office in the city of Charleston;
is engaged in sending and receiving messages by wire to and
from points inside and outside of the State of South Carolina;
and has its lines over the post roads, highways and railroads
in the city of Charleston, and in several of the States. The
company has accepted the provisions of the act of Congress
approved July 24-, 1866, c. 230, 14 Stat. 221, [now Rev. Stat.
§ 5263,] whereby it has put its lines at the service of the United
States for postal, military, and other purposes, and given
precedence to its business. The company has offices in other
cities and towns in South Carolina, several of which have
adopted ordinances exacting licenses from the company. During the year commencing January 1, 1892, and for several
years prior to that time, the company has been engaged in
the business of receiving and sending telegrams for private
persons and for the public between the city of Charleston
and other places within the State of South Carolina, and also
in sending telegraphic communications between the governmental departments of the United States, and was and is engaged in the telegraph business for the purpose of interstate
commerce. By an act approved December 17, 1881, the general assembly of the State of South Carolina authorized the
city council of Charleston to impose a license tax, not exceeding five hundred dollars, on all persons engaged in any business, trade, or profession in the city of Charleston. By an
ordinance, entitled "An ordinance to regulate licenses for the
year 1892," the city council enacted that every person, firm,
company, or corporation engaged in any trade, business, or
profession within the city of Charleston should obtain, on
or before the 20th day of January, 1892, a license therefor.
The provision relating to telegraph companies is as follows:
"Telegraph companies or agencies, each, for business done
exclusively within the city of Charleston, and not including

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

any business done to or from points without the State, and
not including any business done for the government of the
United States, its officers or agents, $500." A penalty, for
failure to take out the license, of fifty per cent of the amount
of the tax was provided for, and a continuing penalty of fifty
per cent for each day's business done without taking out such
license. The Postal Telegraph Cable Company, after notification, declined and failed to take out and pay for such
license, and, on -May 28, 1892, in pursuance of the terms of
the ordinance, the license' tax of $500, with penalty of fifty
per cent, was assessed against the company and put in the
hands of the city treasurer for collection, who issued execution therefor, addressed to the city sheriff, requiring him to
proceed to collect said license tax and penalty by distress
and sale.
At the final hearing, on June 21, 1893, the temporary injunction was dissolved, and the bill dismissed with costs.
From this decree the present appeal was taken.
We do not deem it necessary to discuss the contention that
the ordinance imposing the license tax in question is invalid
by reason of its disregard of provisions of the constitution of
South Carolina. The Supreme Court of that State has, in
several cases, judicially settled that the power to raise revenue
by a license tax on business, given by statute to the city council of Charleston, does not violate any provision of the state
constitution. State v. Ilayne, 4 S. C. 403, 413; 1nformationv
v. Jager,29 S. C. 438, 443.
It is claimed that the license required by the ordinance is a
tax upon the telegraph company for the privilege of exercising
its franchise within the city of Charleston, and not an exercise
of the police power granted to the city by the State; that the
Postal Telegraph Cable Company, having constructed its lines
along post roads in the city of Charleston and elsewhere, no
State or municipal authority can exact a license for the privilege of conducting its business, thus restraining the powers
possessed by it under its franchises and under the acts of Congress; and that the ordinance in question is an interference
with interstate commerce and therefore void.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v.CHARLESTON.

695

Opinion of the Court.

The questions thus suggested have been so frequently and so
recently considered and decided by this court, in well-known
cases, that our duty will be sufficiently performed by briefly
citing and applying those cases.
That this license is not a condition upon which the right to
do business depends, but is a tax, is shown by the case of
Home Insurance Company v. City Council, 93 U. S. 116, 122.
There the city council of the city of Augusta passed an ordinance which imposed a license tax of $250 "on each and every
fire, marine, or accidental insurance company located, having
an office, or doing business within the city of Augusta." The
Home Insurance Company, a corporation of the State of New
York, and having an agency in the city of Augusta, refused to
recognize the obligation of the ordinance, and filed a bill in
the Superior Court of Richmond County in the State of
Georgia, to enjoin the city council from collecting the license
tax. That court, having refused the injunction prayed for, and
having dismissed the bill, the case went to the Supreme Court
of Georgia, which affirmed the decree of the Superior Court,
and the case was then brought to this court.
It was argued on behalf of the insurance company that, as
it had complied with the provisions of the laws of Georgia
which authorized foreign insurance companies to do business
in that State, it was not competent for a municipal corporation of the State to impose an additional condition on the
right of the company to do business. But it was held, citing
The License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, that the license in question
must be regarded as nothing more than a tax; that the penalty
provided was a mode of enforcing its payment; and that the
license, when issued, was only a receipt for the tax, and not a
grant of an authority to conduct business on condition of paying the license.
In TIrggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S.365, 376,
where a ferry company, authorized by an act of assembly of
the State of Illinois to carry on its business and paying state
taxes prescribed in its charter, was called upon by a city ordinance to pay a license tax, it was held by this court that the
exaction of a license fee is an ordinary exercise of police

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Oplinion of the Court.

power .by municipal corporations; that the power of the
State to authorize any city within its limits to enforce a
license tax on trades or callings generally, especially those
which are quasi public, cannot be disputed; and that whether
a license fee is exacted under the power to regulate or the
power to tax, is a matter of indifference if the power to do
either exists.
It was held, in West. Union Tel. Co. v. . assaokusetts, 125
U. S. 530, that a tax imposed by the laws of Massachusetts
upon the Western Union Telegraph Company, a corporation
of the State of :New York, on account of the property owned
and used by it within Massachusetts, was valid.
But it is contended that, while a State can prohibit a foreign corporation from doing business within its territory, or
can impose conditions upon the exercise of its franchises, such
power does not exist when such corporations are engaged in
interstate commerce or are agents of the United States government, and reliance is placed on the case of lelou2o v. Port
of .Mobile, 127 U. S. 640. There it was held that where a
telegraph company is doing the business of transmitting messages between different States, and has accepted and is acting
under the telegraph law passed by Congress July 24, 1866,
no State within which it sees fit to establish an office can
impose upon it a license tax, or require it to take out a license
for the transaction of such business; that telegraphic communications are commerce, as well as in the nature of postal
service, and if carried on between different States, they are
interstate commerce, and within the power of regulation conferred upon Congress, free from the control of state regulations, except such as are strictly of a police character; and
that any state regulatious by way of tax on the occupation
or business, or requiring a license to transact such business,
are unconstitutional and void. Accordingly, a judgment of
the Supreme Court of Alabama, which sustained the validity
of an ordinance of a municipal corporation of that State imposing a license tax upon the Western Union Telegraph
Company, engaged in the business of transmitting telegrams
from and to points within the State of Alabama and between

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. CHARLESTON.

697

Opinion of the Court.

private individuals of the State of Alabama, as well as between citizens of said State and citizens of other States, was
reversed. But it was said, in the course of the discussion in
that case, that "it is urged that a portion of the telegraph
company's business is internal to the State of Alabama, and
therefore taxable by the State. But that fact does not
remove the difficulty. This tax affects the whole business
without discrimination. There are sufficient modes in which
the internal business, if not already taxed in some other way,
may be subjected to taxation, without the imposition of a tax
which covers the entire operations of the company."
In Telegraph Company v. Texas, 105 U. S. 460, in error to
the Supreme Court of Texas, it was held that, in respect to its
foreign and interstate business, a telegraph company is, as an
instrument of commerce, subject to the regulating power of
Congress, and, if it accepts the provisions of act of the July
24, 1866, (Revised Statutes, §§ 5263, 5268,) it becomes an agent
of the United States, so far as the business of the government
is concerned; and that the state laws, so far as they impose
upon such company a specific tax on each message which it
transmits beyond the State, or which an officer of the United
States sends over its lines on public business, are unconstitutional; but it was said that "any tax which the State may put
on messages by private parties, and not by agents of the
United States, from one place to another exclusively within
its own jurisdiction, will not be repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States."
The case, in Raterman v. IMestern Union Telegraph Co.,
127 U. S. 411, was one where the telegraph company, a corporation of the State of New York, filed a bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio,
against Ratterman, treasurer of Hamilton County, Ohio, seeking to restrain the collection of a tax on the gross receipts of
the company, which were principally, but not wholly, derived
from business between points within and points without the
State of Ohio. The complainant, in its bill, expressed its
willingness to pay and offered to pay taxes chargeable against
its property and business within the State, but alleged that

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of -the Court.

the defendant refused to accept such partial payment, and
demanded payment for the total assessment on all the gross
receipts. The District and Circuit Judges certified a division
of opinion to this court, as to whether a single tax upon the
receipts of a telegraph company, which receipts were derived
partly from interstate commerce and partly from commerce
-within the State, but which were returned and assessed in
gross and without separation or apportionment, was wholly
invalid, or invalid only in proportion and to the extent that
said receipts were derived from interstate commerce. Mr.
Justice Miller delivered the unanimous opinion of this court.
The case of The State F7'reight Tax, 15 Wall. 232, was cited as
ruling that where the subjects of taxation can be separated
so that that which arises from interstate commerce can be
distinguished from that which arises from commerce wholly
within the State, the court will act upon this distinction, and
will restrain the tax on interstate commerce while permitting
the State to collect that arising upon commerce wholly within
its own territory. Accordingly the decree of the court below,
following the opinion of the circuit judge, enjoining the collection of the taxes on that portion of the receipts derived
from interstate commerce, and permitting the treasurer to collect the other tax upon property of the company and upon
receipts derived from commerce entirely within the limits of
the State, was affirmed.
The question arose, and was determined in the same way, in
the case of WVest. Union Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472.
It there appeared that a statute of Alabama imposed a tax "on
the gross amount of the receipts by any and every telegraph
company derived from the business done by it in this State."
The Western Union Telegraph Company reported to the board
of assessors only its gross receipts received from business wholly
transacted within the State. The board required of the company a further return of its gross receipts from messages carried partly within and partly without the State. The company
made such further return, and the tax was imposed on the
gross receipts as shown by the two returns. This mode of
assessment was sustained by the Supreme Court of Alabama,

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. CHARLESTOn.

699

Opinion of the Court.

but this court held that the statute of Alabama, thus construed, was a regulation of commerce, and that the tax uinposed upon the messages comprised in the second return was
unconstitutional. In the discussion of the case, Mr. Justice
Miller expressed himself as follows: "The principle is, in
regard to telegraph companies which have accepted the provisions of the act of Congress of July 24, 1866, (Rev. Stat.
§ 5263 to § 5268,) that they shall not be taxed by the authorities of a State for any messages, or receipts arising from messages, from points within the State to points without, or from
points without the State to points within, but that such taxes
may be levied upon all messages carried and delivered exclusively within the State. The foundation of this principle is
that messages of the former class are elements of commerce
between the States and not subject to legislative control of
the States, while the latter class are elements of internal commerce solely within the limits and jurisdiction of the State,
and, therefore, subject to its taxing power." See, likewise,
PaciRe Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S.339.
The reasoning of these cases needs no reinforcement, and
their conclusions are readily applied to the case in hand.
The express terms of the ordinance restrict the tax to
"business done exclusively within the city of Charleston, and
ndt including any business done to or from points without the
State, and not including any business done for the government
of the United States, its officers or agents."
It is claimed that the Postal Telegraph Cable Company is
not within the terms of this ordinance, because it does not do
any business exclusively within the city of Charleston; that
its city offices are merely initial points for sending and
receiving messages, and that, irrespective of the messages sent
or received outside of the State, the interstate messages are
not between points within the city; and that, if license
exactions were allowed to and made by the various cities in
the State, great injury and wrong would be done to the telegraph company.
But this is a hardship, if such exists, that it is not within our
province to redress. If business done wholly within a State is

OCTOBER TERMN,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

within the taxing power of the State, the courts of the United
States cannot review or correct the action of the State in the
exercise of that power.
It is further contended that the ruling of the cited cases
does not cover the case of a telegraph company which has
constructed its lines along the post roads in the city of
Charleston, and elsewhere, and which is exercising its functions under the act of Congress as an agency of the government
of the United States. It is obvious that the advantages or
privileges that are conferred upon the company by the act
of July 21, 1866, (Rev. Stat. §§ 5263-5268,) are in the line of
authority to construct and maintain its lines as a means or
instrument of interstate commerce, and are not necessarily
inconsistent with a right on the part of the State in which
business is done and property acquired to tax the same, within
the limitations pointed out in the cases heretofore cited.
It was upon the doctrine of these cases that the court below
acted in refusing the injunction and dismissing the bill, and its
decree is, therefore,
Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLxff, MR. JUSTICE BRowN and MR. JUsTICE
JAcKsoN, dissented.

