GROVES v. SENTELL.
Syllabus.

GROVES v. SENTELL.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 278. Argued and submitted March 13, 1894.- Decided May 14, 1894.

The Stephen M3organ, 94 U. S. 599, affirmed to the point that a party who
does not appeal from the final decree of a Circuit Court cannot be heard
in opposition thereto, when the case is properly brought here by the
appeal of the adverse party.
A note by which three parties, signing it, promise to pay to the order of
the payee at a bank in New Orleans the sum named therein with interest,
not negotiable, is a joint obligation under the law of Louisiana, and binds
the several parties thereto only for their proportion of the debt; since,
to make it a solidary obligation, binding each of the promisors for the
whole debt, the solidarity must, under the law of that State, be expressly
stipulated, and is never presumed.
The promisors on that note, in order to secure it, mortgaged real estate in
Louisiana, which they then held in common, undivided. They thereby
severally declared that they were indebted to the mortgagee, etc., and
that they did thereby mortgage to the .mortgagee the property described
in the deed. There was no stipulation showing an intention to mortgage
separately an undivided part of the property for an undivided pat t of the
debt. Held, that it was the intention of the parties that the security
for the purchase money should rest upon the entire entity.
A mortgagor has the power, under the laws of Louisiana, to exclude indivisibility in contracting the mortgage, and, if he fails to do so, indivisibility applies, not alone as a result of his silence, but also because,
being the general rule and of the nature of the contract, it exists unless
excluded by its express terms or by a plain implication deducible from it.
The divisibility of a debt secured by a mortgage does not necessarily
import the divisibility of the mortgage securing it.
The voluntary partition by the mortgagees of the property covered by the
mortgage did not operate to prevent the mortgage creditor from enforcing his security against either part.
A subsequent mortgage creditor, who became such after the division of the
property, and only as to one undivided part, is entitled to be subrogated
to the rights of the first mortgage creditor, as they existed at the time
of the subrogation.
If a party interested in the result of the suit, claiming under the subsequent mortgage, files a bill in the nature of a bill of interpleader, he
cannot be allowed a solicitor's fee, to be paid from the fund dedicated
to the payment of the mortgage.
VOL. CLI-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

FANNY B. Lambeth and Dora Lambeth, as heirs to their
deceased father, were the owners, in equal undivided proportions, of certain parcels of real estate situated in the parish of
Avoyelles in Louisiana. Two of these parcels were known,
respectively, as the "Leinster Plantation" and the "Lucky
Hit Plantation." Fanny B. Lambeth was married in April,
1865, to Christopher M. Randolph. The Leinster plantation
was leased during 1865, '66, and '67 to John Rhea, who died
in October, 1867, pending the lease.
On the 15th day of January, 1868, Fanny B. Lambeth, wife
of Christopher M. Randolph, (whom we shall. hereafter refer
to as Mrs. Randolph,) and Miss Dora Lambeth appeared before
Generes, a notary in the parish of Avoyelles, and acknowledged themselves indebted to Mrs. Rosetta Rhea, widow of
John Rhea, of Madison County, Indiana, in the sum of
$8970.12, which they declared was a balance due by them for
the purchase price of certain movable property - mules,
cane, implements, etc.- which belonged to Rhea at the time
of his death, and which had been placed on the Leinster
plantation by him, for use in its cultivation. The act declared
that the movable property which they bought belonged to
Mrs. Rhea, who was the widow of John Rhea, and as such
was, under the laws of Indiana, where Rhea was domiciled,
his sole heir, as he died intestate and left no ascendants or
descendants. To evidence the indebtedness, Mrs. Randolph,
authorized by her husband, and Miss Lambeth drew their joint
note, as follows:
C

"$8970.12.

AVOYELLES,

LA.,

anuary 1st, 1868.
"Two years after date we promise to pay to the order of
Mistress Rosetta Rhea, at the Citizens' Bank of Louisiana, in
the city of New Orleans, eight thousand nine hundred and
seventy and 2 dollars, for value received, with interest at
the rate of eight per cent per annum from date until paid.
Not negotiable.
"FANNY B. RANDOLPH.
"C . M. RANDOLPH.
" LENSTER PLANTATION,

"DORA LmN

TrH."

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Statement of the Case.

Mrs. Rhea bound herself to obtain a judicial recognition
from the courts of Indiana of her right of inheritance to her
husband's estate before enforcing payment of the note.
To secure this note, Mrs. Randolph and M iss Lambeth, by
the same act, mortgaged, 1st, the Leinster plantation; 2d, a
tract of land adjoining the Leinster plantation, known as the
"Faulkland tract." This act of mortgage was duly inscribed.
In September, 1868, Christopher M. Randolph, the husband
of Fanny B. Lambeth, died. In December, 1868, Dora Lambeth married T. 0. Stark. We refer to her hereafter as Mrs.
Stark.
In December, 1868, "In the matter of the estate of John
Rhea, deceased, in the Court of Common Pleas of Jefferson
County, Indiana," Rosetta Rhea was recognized as his sole
heir, and as such was decreed to be entitled to the promissory
note set forth above, and all the rights securing the same.
On the 9th of January, 1873, Mrs. Randolph and Mrs.
Stark made between them, by voluntary and private agreement, a partial partition of their father's estate. Mrs. Randolph took a portion of the Leinster plantation and other
lands, and Mrs. Stark took the remaining portion of that
plantation, also with other lands. Thus, by the terms of the
partition, a portion of the land which had been mortgaged to
secure the debt due to Mrs. Rhea was allotted to Mrs. Randolph.and a portion to Mrs. Stark. Nothing was said in the
partition as to the then existing mortgage in favor of Mrs.
Rhea.
On the 23d of April, 1873, Mrs. Randolph and Mrs. Stark
constituted T. 0. Stark their "true and lawful attorney in
fact, for us and in our names, to settle and establish the payments made and amounts still due by them on a mortgage
note of eight thousand nine hundred and seventy 12 dollars,
($8970.12), dated January 1,1868, held by Mrs. Rosetta Rhea;
to endorse on said note the amount paid thereon; to interrupt
prescription; to consent to any subrogation in favor of any
person or persons or commercial firm who may pay a portion
of their said indebtedness on said note, and thus divide their
said indebtedness, and to appear and sign, in their name, any

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

agreement, document, or notarial act carrying out said subrogation, with any clauses or conditions which said attorney
may, in his discretion, deem fit; to enter into said arrangements with said Mrs. Rhea, her agents or attorneys, to obtain
an extension of time for the payment of the balance due on
said promissory note, said extension of time to be granted and
accepted upon such terms and conditions as to our said attorney
may seem fit; to sign a notarial act for that purpose and to
acknowledge therein, in their name, that they recognize said
Mrs. Rosetta Rhea as the rightful owner of said note, in her
quality of sole heir of her deceased husband, the late John
Rhea, of Madison County, Indiana, recognized as such by the
court of Jefferson County, Indiana, in the matter of the estate
of John Rhea, deceased, and alone entitled to claim payment
of said note, with full power of substitution, and generally to
do everything necessary to carry out the premises as fully as
if done by us in person, hereby ratifying all and whatsoever
our said attorney may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof."
On the 28th day of April, 1873, by act before Trist, a notary
public in New Orleans, Stark, as agent of Mrs. Randolph and
of his wife, and Victor Olivier, Esq., as agent of Mrs. Rhea,
declared that the note which had been given Mrs. Rhea, and
secured by the mortgage as aforesaid, had been reduced by
partial payments, all arrears in interest having been paid, to
the sum of $7577.34, and the time for the payment of this
balance was extended by Olivier, as agent for Mrs. Rhea, to
the 1st day of March, 1874, interest thereon to be paid at the
rate of eight per cent from the 28th day of April, 1873.' Both
Stark and Olivier, on behalf of their respective principals, declared that "after a careful computation of interest and deduction of partial payments made at different times to Mrs. Rosetta
Rhea by the drawers of said note," the aforesaid sum was due.
In May, 1875, Mrs. Randolph acknowledged herself indebted
to Johnson & Goodrich, a commercial firm of the city of New
Orleans, in the sum of $8000, evidencing her debt by her notes,
secured by a mortgage of the portion of the Leinster plantation which had been allotted to her in the partition, and also

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Statement of the Case.

of her interest in an undivided tract of land which she had
inherited from her father's estate, and which had not been
included in the partition. In June, 1875, Johnson & Goodrich transferred this note to G. W. Sentell & Co., in liquidation.
In October, 1883, G. W. Sentell and W. B. McLean as executor of B. Conyers, a deceased partner of the former firm of
G. W. Sentell & Co., both representing the interest of the firm
in liquidation, sued in the District Court of the parish of Avoyelles to foreclose the mortgage which the firm in liquidation
had, as stated, acquired by subrogation from Johnson & Goodrich. On the 24th of December, 1883, judgment was rendered
in favor of Sentell & Co. in liquidation and against Mrs. Randolph, accompanied by a decree for a sale of the mortgaged
property. Under this decree, on the 1st of March, 1884-, the
sheriff of the parish of Avoyelles sold the portion of the Leinster plantation which had been allotted to Mrs. Randolph, and
the undivided interest in the tract of land, both of which had
been included in her mortgage to Johnson & Goodrich. The
property had been adjudicated to G. W. Sentell for $12,002.
The mortgage in favor of Mrs. Rhea, being on record and
ranking the Johnson & Goodrich mortgage, Sentell, the purchaser, retained in his hands from the amount of his bid, to
pay the sameFor principal ......................
$4873 00
For interest up to date of sale ....... 1164 12
Total .......................

$6037 12

The sum thus retained by Sentell to pay the principal of the
note was the actual amount due. At the time of the sale
the principal had been reduced from $7577.34, as stated in the
notarial act of 1873, to $4873, as mentioned in a writing on
the reverse of the note. The payments which brought about
this reduction were numerous, and made at brief intervals.
Some of them were evidenced by notarial acknowledgments
between Stark and Olivier, agents; some merely by endorse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ments upon the back of the note. Some had been made by
.Sentell, who took subrogations; these last, however, being
made subordinate in rank of mortgage to the amounts due on
the original note.
All of these payments were made on the entire note, without any indication that they were imputed particularly to any
portion of the debt due by either of the paities. Hence, all
the payments were credited at the times they were made on
the entire debt. The last credit on the principal of the note
is as follows:
"The principal of the within note has been reduced by payment on the same to $4873.00, with interest thereon to March
5, 1881, to which date the payment of said sum has been postponed.
VICToR OLIVIER, JR.,
"New Orleans, April 28, 1880.
"Agent for 3f'2rs. Rosetta .Rhea.
"T. 0. STARx,
"Agentfor iMs. Randolph and Aks. Stark."
There are two additional credits of payments of interest, the
first up to March, 1882, and the second up to March 5, 1884,
one of these interest credits being accompanied by a repetition
of the statement that the principal of the note was at the time
$4873.00.
In April, 1886, Martha Groves, of Indiana, and William J.
Groves, of Ohio, sister and brother of Mrs. Rosetta Rhea, were
duly recognized by the Circuit Court of Jefferson County,
Indiana, as her sole heirs and distributees, and, as such, entitled to all the rights of Rosetta Rhea in and to the note
to which we have referred.
In April, 1886, Martha Groves, and William J. Groves, and
Pogue, administrator of Rhea, sued in the United States
Circuit Court G. W. Sentell for $4873, with interest thereon
at eight per cent from March 5, 1884, until paid. The object
of this suit was to compel Sentell to pay the balance thus
stated to be due on the note out of the sum which he had
retained. Sentell thereupon filed in the Circuit Court of the

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Statement of the Case.

United States a bill of interpleader, in which he averred the
fact of his purchase, and his retaining the amount in his hands,
and that there were conflicting claims to the fund. He
alleged, Ist, that he had been notified by Mrs. Randolph not
to pay over the amount apparently remaining due on the note,
as the same was not due; 2d, that he had also been notified
by W. B. McLean, as liquidator of G. W. Sentell & Co., and
also as executor of B. Conyers, a deceased member of the firm
of G. W. Sentell & Co., that such firm in liquidation was
entitled to the fund retained. He averred that he had always
been ready and willing to pay over the fund, and prayed that
the defendants might be decreed to interplead and adjust
between themselves their rights and interests in the money
due and payable under the mortgage. Re made defendants
to the bill Mrs. Martha Groves, William J. Groves, Fanny B.
Randolph, and William B. McLean, as liquidator of the firm
of G. W. Sentell & Co., and as testamentary executor of B.
Conyers. Upon this bill an injunction was issued, restraining
Martha Groves and William J. Groves from prosecuting their
suit. Sentell deposited in the registry of the court $5743.46,
to abide the result of the litigation. Mrs. Randolph answered
and charged the nullity of the note on the ground, (1st,) that
it had been given for a debt of her husband, for which she
was incompetent to bind herself; and, (2d,) that the note, if it
was originally binding, which she denied, represented nothing
due by her, since it had been extinguished, so far as she was
concerned, by payment. She charged that this extinction
would result from the proper credit to her of the amounts
which had been paid; and that many payments had been
erroneously credited to the note generally which should have
been imputed to her portion of the debt. McLean, liquidator
and executor, practically joined in the claim set up by Mrs.
Randolph. He charged the nullity of the note because it was
given by Mrs. Randolph for a debt of her husband. He
further alleged that, as the second mortgage creditor on the
property sold, the firm of G. W. Sentell & Co. in liquidation
was entitled to the entire balance of the fund, to be applied
to the payment of their junior mortgage. He, in addition,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

averred that, if any portion of the note was payable out of
the proceeds of the property allotted in the partition to Mrs.
Randolph, the holders of the note could not exercise theirright against such proceeds, without previously exhausting
their remedy against that portion of the mortgaged property
which bad been allotted to Mrs. Stark; that, as junior mortgage creditor on the portion of the property allotted to Mrs.
Randolph, he had a right to compel the creditor to exhaust
Mrs. Stark's property, before proceeding against the proceeds.
of Mrs. Randolph's property; and, finally, that the holder of
the note was not entitled to be paid the amount due on MrsRandolph's half of the debt from the proceeds of her property,
unless the holder gave to the second mortgage creditor a subrogation to the rights of the holder against Mrs. Stark's share
of the property- which subrogation, be averred, the note
holder was unable to give because the proportion of the debt
due by Mrs. Stark had become prescribed. During the course
of the proceedings below, Mrs. Stark was, by order of the
court, made aparty defendant to the bill. She demurred, on
the ground that she was not a necessary party to the cause.
On these issues the case was tried. The court below held
that Mrs. Randolph, having frequently ratified the debt after
the death of her husband, was estopped from claiming that
she was not bound therefor, and hence rejected the claim of
Mrs. Randolph and Sentell & Co. in liquidation as to the
nullity of the note. After reference to a master, to examine
and report as to the payments, it appeared that the full
amount of the payments had been applied and that the application of them all did not reduce the amount due on the note
below the sum of $4873, with interest from March 5, 1884, as
stated in the last credit on the note. The court, however,
concluded that, as many of the payments had been in fact
made from Mrs. Randolph's individual funds, they should
have been imputed to her share of the obligation, instead of
to the debt as a whole. It held that the correction of the
imputations of payments in accordance with this finding reduced the sum remaining due by Mrs. Randolph, on her share
of the note, to $601, and this amount is decreed to be paid

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Argument for McLean, Appellee.

from the proceeds deposited by Sentell. Deducting this $601
from the total amount due on the note - $4873 - left $4273

due by Mrs. Stark, as her portion of the original obligation.
Treating this sum due by Mrs. Stark as not secured by mortgage on that portion of the property which had been allotted
to Mrs. Randolph by the partition, the court decreed the
payment of the entire remaining proceeds to Sentell & Co. in
liquidation, as the junior mortgage creditor. It allowed to
the solicitor of the complainant a fee of $250, to be paid from
the fund deposited. It dismissed the bill as to Mrs. Stark
on the ground that, as she had been made a party solely for
the purpose of charging her with notice of the accounting
and distribution, and this purpose had been subserved by her
appearance, her demurrer must be sustained.
From the decree of the lower court Martha Groves, William
J. Groves, and Pogue, administrator of Rosetta Rhea, appealed,
citing on the appeal G. W. Sentell, Mrs. Fanny B. Randolph,
Mrs. Dora Stark, and W. B. McLean, executor of Benjamin
Conyers, deceased, and liquidator of the firm of G. W. Sentell
& Co.
Xr'. George A. Zing, (with whom were .Mr. Charles If.
Hornor and Ab'. William S. Benedict on the brief,) for appellants.
JIh'. . T. .AZerriek, Senr., for Mrs. Randolph, appellee, submitted on his brief.
.Mrb. E. -i. H'udson, for Sentell, complainant in the bill of
interpleader and appellee, submitted on his brief.
2 1r. Edgai H. Farrar,Atr. Benjamin F. Jonao, and XIrr.
Ernest B. Eruttschnitt, for McLean, liquidator and appellee,
submitted on their brief in which they contended:
I. There was nothing in the circumstances under which the
note of January 1, 1868, to Mrs. Rhea was given, to create
anything but a joint liability. The note on its face, by the
principles of commercial law as applied in Louisiana, is not a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for McLean, Appellee.

joint and several note but a joint one. .2fayor of - t ew Orleans v. 1?ipley, 5 La. 120; 8. C. 25 Am. Dec. 175. The terms
of the mortgage given to secure this note do not extend the
obligation from a joint to a joint and several one. A mortgage being a mere accessory to the debt, each person mortgaged his interest in the plantation to cover his liability, and
no more. There is nothing in the mortgage, or in the circumstances under which it was given, from which any suretyship
for each other could be presumed, and nothing by which Mrs.
Randolph bound herself or her property for Mrs. Stark's share
of the debt, or Mrs. Stark bound herself and her property for
Mrs. Randolph's share of the debt. Therefore, the mortgage
given by Mrs. Randolph, though stipulated in the same act as
the mortgage given by Mrs. Stark, bears, only so far as her
share of the indebtedness is concerned, upon her share of the
property.
On this point the cases of Walton & Jemp v. Lizardi, 15
La. 588, and Erwin v. Greene, 5 Rob. (La.) 70, are absolutely
conclusive.
II. By the effect of the partition made between Mrs.
Randolph and Mrs. Stark, of the plantation, to secure the
Rhea note, Mrs. Randolph's mortgage was confined to her
half of the property, and Mrs. Stark's note was confined to
her half of the property, and all payments made by Mrs. Randolph upon the note reduced, pro tanto, her liability thereon.
The master, in his report, has given in detail the payments
made by Mrs. Randolph on this note, showing that there remained, at the date when the bill of interpleader was filed
and the fund was deposited in court, the sum of six hundred
and two -6 dollars, and for this sum the court below entered
a decree in favor of the appellants. There was not any
attempt made in the court below to attack the computation
of the master, and none can successfully be made, as every
item of payment, stated in his report, is confirmed by the
evidence, and the evidence on that subject is not in any
manner conflicting.
III. The claim of the appellant that G. W. Sentell, who
filed the bill of interpleader, had assumed the plaintiff's debt

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Opinion of the Court.

to the extent of the amount retained in his hand, is utterly
without any foundation in law, or in fact. He was obliged to
pay the amount which he retained in his hand to whoever
was entitled. Article No. 207 of the Code of Practice required
him, as the purchaser at a public sale, to retain in his hands
the price bid by him at the sale to recover all liens, privileges,
and mortgages upon the property which were prior in rank of
registry to the claim under which the property was sold;
that is all Sentell did. He and the sheriff were required to
go by the record in the Mortgage Office, showing what liens
were recorded against the property. None of those lienholders were a party to the suit of Sentell & Co. against
Mrs. Randolph, or to the execution under which the property
of Mrs. Randolph was sold. The fund in Sentell's hands was
retained by him as purchaser to hold him harmless from such
claim of lien; and by the payment into court of the sum so
retained by him, he was relieved of any obligation whatever
by virtue of his purchase; and the lien-holders and the
debtor of the claims secured by lien, together with other
creditors of that debtor, who had a right to contest the
amount and validity of liens which were claimed to be prior
to theirs, had a right to come in and be heard as to whom the
fund should go to. This was the theory upon which the bill
of interpleader was filed and allowed, and upon which the
court below entered a decree. It would be inequitable to
hold that Sentell had bound himself to pay the full amount
of the Rhea debt, when that debt had already been paid,
except a small balance, so far as Mrs. Randolph was concerned. Sentell knew nothing of what was due on the debt,
and could not make Mrs. Randolph owe more than she did
owe, and could not consent to pay her money to an alleged
creditor of hers to whom she really owed a very small sum.
The decree is entirely in accordance with equity, the law, and
the facts, and should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

WHITE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As Martha Groves and W. J. Groves and Pogue, adminis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

trator, are the only appellants, the corlectness of the decree
in their favor and against Mrs. Randolph and Sentell is not
before us. In this regard that decree is final. [The Stephem
3lorgan,94 U. S. 599.
The first apparent question is the correctness of the decree,
holding that certain payments which were made on the note
should have been imputed to Mrs. Randolph's portion, instead
of to the note as a whole. The payments which were thus
imputed by the lower court were those made subsequent to
the notarial act of 1873, in which the parties fixed the principal of the note at $7577.34. As to the payments made prior
to this date there is no dispute in the record, as they are all admitted to have been made in equal proportions from the funds
belonging to Mrs. Stark and to M rs. Randolph.
The first question necessary to be determined is, was the
note, under the Louisiana law, a joint or a solidary obligation.
A joint obligation under the law of Louisiana binds the
parties thereto only for their proportion of the debt, (Civil
Code, Arts. 2080, 2086,) whilst a solidary obligation, on the
contrary, binds each of the obligors for the whole debt. The
note was clearly a joint note, and not a solidary one. Solidarity, under the law of Louisiana, must be expressly stipulated, and is never presumed. La. Civil Code, Art. 2093.
We consider it unnecessary, however, to pass upon the question of imputatioi of payments, because of our conclusions
upon another branch of the case. The issue between the
parties is not as to the amount of the payments, but as to the
manner in which the payments should be applied. It follows,
therefore, that the controversy involves, not the sum due, but
the person by whom it is due. As we conclude that the
whole debt, irrespective of the question of whether it is due
by Mrs. Randolph or by Mrs. Stark, is payable out of the
fund, it is useless to determine how much is due by one or by
the other.
Whether the whole debt was payable out of the whole
property, or any part thereof, depends on whether the mortgage was divisible or indivisible under the law of Louisiana.
Says the Louisiana Civil .Code: "The mortgage is a real

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Opinion of the Court.

charge on the property bound for the discharge of the obligation. It is in its nature indivisible, and prevails over all
the immovables subjected to it, and over each and every
portion. It follows them into whatever hands they pass."
Art. 3282.
This provision of the Louisiana Code was derived from the
Code 'Napoleon, where its identical language is found, Code
Napoleon, Art. 2114. The mortgage in this case contains
nothing on its face which takes it out of the general rule.
The parties "severally declare" that 'they are indebted, etc.,
and that they do "hereby mortgage to and in favor of the
said Rosetta Rhea, represented herein by her attorney in fact,
the property described in the deed." There is no stipulation
in the act showing in the remotest degree an intention to
mortgage separately an undivided half of the property for an
undivided half of the debt. Thus, on the face of the act, it is
a mortgage of the whole property for the whole debt. It
was in the power of the contracting parties to have stipulated
against indivisibility, and that they failed to do so is selfevident. The provision of the Code is that indivisibility is
"in the nature of a mortgage," therefore not of its essence.
The commentators on the Code Napoleon agree that indivisibility can be avoided, even where the parties join in a common
act of mortgage by stipulating that the mortgage is to be
divisible. Laurent, in his Principes de Droit Civil Frangais,
thus states the rule: "All the authorities teach the doctrine
that the law, in saying that a mortgage is indivisible by its
nature, intends simply thereby to declare that it is not so
indivisible in its essence. From this it is concluded that parties may by their conventions stipulate to the contrary. The
right of the parties to make such agreements in relation to
the divisibility of the mortgage as they deem proper cannot be
denied, because indivisibility rests upon intention." (Vol. 30,
page 159; see also RodiAre On Indivisibility, paragraph
466.) Paul Pont, in his treatise On Privileges and Mortgages, thus states it: "The words ' in the nature of' have a
significance which is applied to them sometimes in other
provisions of the law. Thus, the law says that indivisibility

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

is in the nature of a mortgage, in the same way that it is
provided that warranty is in the nature, not in the essence, of
contract of sale. And because indivisibility is purely a matter
of intention, it can be controlled by the will of the parties."
(Vol. 1, page 321, paragraphs 331 and 332.)
These expositions of the civil law writers are persuasive as
to the proper construction of the Louisiana Code. Virterbo v.
Friedlawnder, 120 U. S. 707, 728. Indeed, by the strongest
possible analogy, they have been adopted by the Louisiana
courts. Thus, a vendo's privilege, under the law of Louisiana, is "in the nature" of the contract of sale. The rule there
as to this privilege is that, where a sale is made and the privilege is not excluded by express agreement or by implications
clearly deducible from the language of the parties, it is implied
to exist, as it is of the "nature of the contract." Boner v.
Ma/e, 3 L . Ann. 600.
The parties, then, having had the power, in contracting the
mortgage, to exclude indivisibility, and not having done so,
indivisibility applies, not alone as a result of their silence, but
also because, being the general rule and of the nature of the
contract, it exists unless excluded by the express terms or by
plain "implication deducible from the contract." It is urged,
however, that, as the obligation secured by the mortgage was
joint, therefore the mortgage itself must necessarily have
been joint. The proposition confounds the nature of the principal obligation with that of the accessory contract of mortgage. That the divisibility of a debt does not necessarily
import the divisibility of the mortgage securing it, is unanimously held by the civil law writers. "Under the theory of
the law the indivisibility of the mortgage has no reference to
the nature of the principal obligation. Thus, there may be a
division of the obligation either between joint creditors or joint
debtors, or between the heirs of joint creditors and joint
debtors." (Paul Pont, vol. 1, page 33.) Laurent, in speaking
on the same subject, says: "Thus, if the debt is discharged in
part, or is divisible, it has no influence whatever upon the
mortgage. This will subsist in its entirety, although the
debt may be extinguished in part, and although a third

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Opinion of the Court.

possessor of the immovable mortgage may be liable only personally for a portion of the debt. We thus see that the indivisibility of the mortgage does not render the obligation itself
indivisible. Where the obligations are joint they may be
divided, actively or passively, between the heirs of the creditor
and the heirs of the debtor." (Laurent, vol. 30, page 151;
same page, paragraph 177.) (See also Rodi~re, page 167 et
seq.)
The whole subject was at an early date considered by the
French Court of Cassation. Certain persons gave a power of
attorney to an agent, authorizing him to contract a debt and
consent a mortgage. The agent borrowed the money and gave
the mortgage. When the mortgage came to be enforced the
debtors defended on the ground that the agent had consented
a solidary debt when he had only the power to consent a joint
one; that, therefore, not only was the debt joint, but the mortgage securing it divisible. The court found that the power
only authorized the contracting of a joint debt; but it held
that as the power authorized the agent to consent a mortgage,
and the mortgage was in its nature indivisible, the debt was
joint; but the indivisible mortgage securing it remained and
was in force. (Cassation, May 6, 1818, referred to and quoted
in Paul Pont, vol. 1, p. 328.)
It has been contended that a different rule has been established in Louisiana. We are referred, in support of this proposition, to Ufralton & Kemp v. Lizardi, 15 La. 292, and Erwin
v. G6reene, 5 Rob. (La.) 70. These cases, instead of supporting the contention, we think refute it. In the Walton case
several persons had bought separate undivided portions of a
square of ground. To evidence their obligations to pay the
purchase price, they issued their separate notes for their
respective shares, and secured them by one act of mortgage
upon the property. Some of the purchasers paid their notes,
and others did not. Foreclosure proceedings were commenced
upon the unpaid notes, against the whole property, and the
issue presented was whether the mortgage was divisible or indivisible. The court held, after a critical examination of the
contract, that upon its face it stipulated that the mortgage

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

should be divisible, and not indivisible. It said that each of
the parties had given his separate notes for his separate obligation, and that the agreement between them and the vendor
was that the notes should be secured by a special mortgage on
"each of the lots for which the same should be given in payment." The language of the mortgage in that case was as
follows: "We, in order to secure the following described notes,
jointly effect, mortgage, and hypothecate;" again, "and the
said purchasers, each in proportion of their respective shares
and interest in said property, do hereby confess judgment in
favor of said parties ;" again, "now the said parties do hereby
agree that a sale of said ground shall be made in favor of
. and in the following proportions." The facts clearly
justified the court in saying "from the particular care which
the parties appear to have taken to distinguish their proportionate interest in the property, as well as in the payments for
which they respectively gave their separate obligations," their
intention was clear to create a divisible and not an indivisible
mortgage.
The facts in Erwin v. Greene were very similar to those
just referred to. There the court said: "Each of the obligors
promised to pay his portion of the price for which he gave
his separate notes, and each took care to distinguish and
designate the proportion of their respective interests in the
property."
These cases, by "converse reasoning, confirm the rule of
indivisibility as applied to the contract with which we are
dealing. Indeed, we think this contract is controlled not by
the foregoing cases but by Potts v. Blan chard, 19 La. Ann.
167, 168, and Stewart, Hyde & Co. v. Biuard, 23 La. Ann.
411, 415.
In the first case, certain heirs sold their undivided interests
in land and the vendees gave their notes as evidence of their
obligation to pay the purchase price, and secured the same by
mortgage upon the property. The question was whether the
mortgage thus given covered the whole of the property or a
part. The court said: "The question presented is one of the
construction of the act of mortgage given by the purchasing

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Opinion of the Court.

heirs to the vendors. It is, whether or not the whole property
described in the act of sale and mortgage is covered by the
mortgage or only the proportion of interest sold. We think
there can be no doubt that the mortgage was intended to
actually cover the whole property subject to the mortgage."
Referring to the act of mortgage, it further said: "The
property was fully described in the act;

.

.

.

it does not

say pro,ortion sold, but the property is described and the
description is of the wholeproperty."
In the latter case, (23 La. Ann.,) separate notes were given
to evidence the price of undivided interests. These notes
were secured by mortgage upon the whole property, and the
court held the mortgage to be indivisible. It is contended
that even although indivisibility of mortgage is the rule, as
the parties have the power to stipulate for divisibility, therefore we must not confine our view to the act of mortgage, but
must look beyond its terms to ascertain the intention of the
parties. If in so doing we find their intention was to make
a divisible mortgage, such intention should be enforced.
Whether intention can be arrived at beyond the act of mortgage itself, where the party seeking to enforce the mortgage
is the innocent third holder of negotiable paper, is a question upon which we express no opinion. The paper here
is in the bands of the original holder. If we resort to the
intention of the parties as derived from their situation in order
to interpret the mortgage, we could reach no different conclusion. We have seen that the joint nature of the obligation
does not negative the indivisibility of the mortgage by which
the obligation is secured. The very purpose for which the
mortgage was given in this case furnishes a cogent reason
why the mortgage should have been indivisible. The consideration of the debt which it secured was the purchase price
of movable property-mules, cane, and agricultural implements - situated, at the time of sale, on the leinster plantation. By the very fact of the purchase of these things by
the owners of the plantation they became incorporated with
the plantation and constituted an integral part thereof. The
Louisiana Code declares that "things which the owner of a
VOL. CLM-31

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tract of land has placed upon it for its service and improvement are immovable by destination,"

.

.

.

and among

the things enumerated are "cattle intended for cultivation,
implements of husbandry, seeds, plants, etc." La. Civil Code,
Art. 468. It follows, then, from the nature of the things
purchased, they became incorporated with the whole plantation upon which they were situated. Being thus indivisibly
united with the whole thing, it is reasonable to draw the conclusion that the intention of the parties was that the security
given for the purchase price would rest upon the entire entity,
of which the thing-s sold became a part by operation oflaw. If the parties to the contract did not intend such contingency, it could have been readily provided against by a
stipulation in the act of mortgage. All the conduct of the
parties subsequent to the granting of the mortgage during the
long term of years over which its payment was extended
indicate that they considered the mortgage covered the whole
property indivisibly.
Concluding that the mortgage was indivisible, the only remaining question is, did the fact of the voluntary partition of
the property covered by the mortgage operate to prevent the
mortgage creditor from enforcing his mortgage against either
part thereof. The negative of this proposition necessarily
results from the doctrine of indivisibility. The writers on the
French Code, which is in this regard identical with the Louisiana Code, are unanimous on the subject. Says Laurent (vol.
30, p. 157): "Our code and our law of mortgages have borrowed from Dumoulin the formula which characterizes the
effects of indivisibility. 'The mortgage subsists in its entirety
upon all the properties affected, upon each of them and upon
each portion of them.'" Pont says: "It is, then, admitted
that a creditor, having a mortgage upon several pieces of immovable property, can, in consequence of indivisibility, exercise the whole sum of his rights against any particular piece
thereof without giving rise to a right on the part of a special
mortgage creditor subsequently inscribed to compel him to do
otherwise." (Vol. 1, p. 330.) These principles taught by the
civil law commentators are settled in the jurisprudence of

GROVES v. SENTELL.
Opinion of the Court.

France. See Cassation, March 4, 1833; Dalloz, 1833, vol. 1, p.
35; Cassation, December 24, 1844; Journal du Palais, 1844, vol.
1, p. 98; idem, 1846, vol. 2, p. 427. See also authorities quoted
by Paul Pont in his treatise on mortgages, vol. 1, p. 330, in
footnote. A like rule is the settled law of Louisiana. Pepper v. Dunlap, 16 La. 163; Adams v. Lear, 3 La. Ann. 144;
Freret v. Freret, 31 La. Ann. 506; Bagley v. Tate, 10 Rob.
(La.) 45; Powell v. Hayes, 31 La. Ann. 789, 793, 794. In
Powell v. Hayes, the issue involved not only the right on the
part of the second mortgage creditor or third possessor to
compel the holder of the first mortgage to proceed against the
whole property, but also the question of subrogation. The
first mortgage creditor had released a portion of the property,
and sought to hold the remainder for the entire amount of his
claim. To this the third possessor objected, not alone upon
the ground that the proceeding must be against the whole
property, but also on the ground that he was entitled to subrogation to all the rights of the first mortgage creditor, which
he could not have by reason of the partial release of the first
mortgage. Both these positions were held to be unsound.
As to the first, the court said: "In Bagley v. Tate, (10 Rob.
45,) it was held that the plea of discussion cannot be opposed
to a creditor holding a special mortgage (C. P. 73, C.0. 3367);
nor can a third possessor of property specially mortgaged for
a debt for which other property is also bound require that it
shall be liable only for apro rata portion of the debt. Each
and every part of the property mortgaged is liable for each
and every portion of the debt." Considering the claim of subrogation, the court said: "It may be that the third possessor,
having an interest in discharging the debt will, upon payment
thereof, be entitled to subrogation to the then existing rights
of the mortgage creditor.

.

.

.

He" (the third possessor)

"is under no obligation to pay the creditor, and when he does
pay, he must be satisfied with a subrogation to these 'ights as
they exist. We cannot see how the rights of a mortgagee may
be affected, or put in duriori easy, by the circumstance of
there being a second mortgage or a sale of the mortgaged
premises," etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Applying these principles, it is evident that the entire proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property or a part thereof
were stricken with the entire mortgage, and that the creditor
could not be compelled to divide his security in consequence of
the voluntary partition of the property made after the mortgage was inscribed. Nor does it affect this question that
Sentell & Co. in liquidation were junior mortgage creditors
on that part of the mortgaged property which belonged to
Mrs. Randolph. As the second mortgage creditor, or third
possessor, of the property, Sentell could not lawfully complain
of the exercise by the first mortgage creditor of his rights
against a part of the property mortgaged, and was only entitled by subrogation to the rights of the first mortgage creditor as they existed at the time of the foreclosure proceedings.
The Louisiana Code provides that subrogation takes place of
right "1st. For the benefit of him, who, being himself a creditor,
pays another creditor whose claim is preferable to his by reason
of his privileges and mortgage.
"2d. For the benefit of the purchaser of any immovable
property who employs the price of his purchase in paying the
creditor to whom this property was mortgaged.
"3d. For the benefit of him, who, being bound with others
or for others for the payment of the debt, had an interest in
discharging it." (Article 2161.)
Of course, nothing in this opinion affects any rights of subrogation to which either Sentell & Co. or Mrs. Randolph may
be entitled under the laws of Louisiana, as a consequence of
the payment of the amount due on the mortgage note out of
the fund.
It is true, as the junior mortgage creditor interested in the
fund, Sentell & Co. had the right to plead prescription as to
the principal obligation, in order thereby to defeat the rights
of the first mortgage creditor. "Creditors and also other persons who may have an interest in the acquiring of an estate or
the extinguishment of an obligation by prescription, shall have
the right to plead it, even in case the person claiming such
estate or bound by such obligation renounces such right of

GROVES v. SENTELL.

485 "

Opinion of the Court.

prescription." (La. Civil Code, article 3466.) The same code,
however, (article 3463,) provides that courts shall not supply
the plea of prescription. There is no plea of prescription in
the record, unless we hold that such a plea results from the
general answer of Sentell & Co. in liquidation that they were
entitled to a subrogation, which they could not obtain because
the portion of the debt due by Mrs. Stark was prescribed. If
this be treated as a technical plea, the record contains abundant evidence showing such interruptions of prescription as
prevent the operation of the statute of limitations. It is
immaterial whether the payments made by Stark, as the
agent of Mrs. Stark and of Mrs. Randolph, were made with
the money of Mrs. Randolph or with the money of Mrs. Stark.
At the time these payments took place such acknowledgments
were made as conclusively interrupted prescription. "Prescription," says the Louisiana Code, article 5320, "ceases likewise to run whenever a possessor makes an acknowledgment
of the right of a person whose title they prescribe."
We conclude by considering the decree of the court below
allowing the solicitor of Sentell & Co. in liquidation a fee from
the fund. The general rule is that a party who has an interest
in the subject-matter of the suit cannot file a bill of interpleader, strictly so called. In fact, the assertion of perfect
disinterestedness is an essential ingredient of such a bill.
Killian v. -b73inghaws, 110 U. S. 568, 572; .Mitchell v. Hayn,
2 Sim. & Stn. 63; Bedell v. Horman, 2 Paige, 199; Atknon
v. _Yanks, 1 Cowen, 691.
Sentell was a member of the firm of Sentell & Co. in liquidation. That firm was practically the real claimant of the
fund, and would necessarily be a beneficiary from the successful issue of the controversy in favor of Mrs. Randolph.
True, in Louisiana, the civil law regards a partnership as a
different juridical entity from the members who compose it.
There is, however, no averment in the bill or proof in the
record that the firm in liquidation was insolvent or that
Sentell had no residuary interest in its assets. The presumption of interest resulting from the partnership remains until
rebutted by averment or proof. Sentell was therefore in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

position where he must be presumed to have a substantial,
although not direct interest in the result of the litigation.
Though it was allowable when so situated to file a bill in the
nature of a bill of interpleader, (Bedell v. Hffman, supra,)
we think it clear that his ultimate interest prevents him from
being allowed his solicitor's fee from the fund dedicated to the
payment of the mortgage, thereby diminishing the security of
the mortgage creditor.
The decree is reversed, and a decree is rendered in favor of
Martha Groves and William J. Groves, directing the payment
out of the fund of $4873, with interest at eight per cent from
March 5, 1884, until paid, and costs of this and the court
1eversed.
below.
JACxSON, not having been present at the argument, took no part in the decision of this case.
MR. JuSTICE

MOBILE

AND

OHIO RAILROAD
TENNESSEE.

COMPANY

v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.

No. 1004.

Argued April 24, 1894.-

Decided May 14, 1894.

This court has jurisdiction to revise the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee in this case, deciding that the provision in the eleventh section
of the Tennessee charter of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company that
no tax shall ever be laid on said road or its fixtures which shall reduce
the dividends below eight per cent does not forbid the assessment and
collection of taxes under the acts of the legislature of Tennessee referred
to in the opinion of that court; that " the said eight per cent clause is
invalid," " null and void," and that the said legislation "does not violate
or impair the obligation of any contract with the Mobile and Ohio Company."
In 1848 the legislature of Tennessee had, under the constitution of the State
of 1834, then in force, power to grant to the Mobile and Ohio Railroad
Company the exemption from taxation which was granted to it by the
eleventh section of the act of January 28, 1848, incorporating it in Tennessee, in the following terms: "That the capital stock of said company
shall be forever exempt from taxation, and the road, with all its fixtures

