ERHARDT v. STEINHARDT.
Syllabus.

Pocomoke.

The objection to the jurisdiction of the courts of

Virginia to try the appellant for the offence charged does not
find any support in the tenth section of the compact of 1785.
That section only provides for the trial of citizens of Maryland
in that State where offences are committed by them in Virginia upon citizens of that State. It was so held by the Court
of Appeals of Virginia in Hendricks v. Commonwealth, above
cited. The offence charged against the appellant, and for
whibh he was tried and convicted, was one against the State
of Virginia, and not one against any of her individual citizens.
It was for catching and taking oysters in her waters, which
were the property of the State, against her prohibitions, he
being a citizen of Maryland.
The objections of the appellant to the jurisdiction of the
county court of Accomack, in rendering judgment against him,
being untenable, the judgment of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia in refusing
to discharge him from imprisonment for failure to pay the
fine imposed upon him for a violation of the laws of Virginia
.Afirmed.
and the costs of his prosecution, must be
MR. JusTICE HARLAN

and Mr. JusTioE GRAY concur in the

result.

ERHARDT v. STEINHARDT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT
SOUTHERN

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued March Z0, April 2,1894. -Decided

April 23, 1894.

Whether Boonekamp bitters, imported in September, 1889, were so similar
to absinthe as to be susceptible of being assessed under the clause applicable to it, was a question of fact properly left to the jury.
The jury having determined that fact adversely to the government, it follows that such bitters were at that time to be classified under the proprietary preparation clause of Schedule A of the act of Mlarch 3, 1883,
c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 494.

The rate of duty on the bottles was dependent upon the rate of duty on the
contents.
VOL. CLUi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

THIS was an action to recover duties paid under protest
on certain goods imported in September, 1889, and invoiced as
Boonekamp Bitters. The collector rated them under the paragraph in Schedule H of section 2502, (act of March 3, 1883,
c. 121, amending Rev. Stat. Title 33, 22 Stat. 120, 505,) reading: "Cordials, liquors, [liqueurs,] arrack, absinthe, kirschwasser, ratafia, and other similar spirituous beverages or bitters,
containing spirits, and not specially enumerated or provided
for in this act, two dollars per proof gallon;" and assessed the
bottles in which the bitters were imported at three cents apiece
under the paragraph of the same schedule, reading: "Wines,
brandy, and other spirituous liquors imported in bottles, shall
be packed in packages containing not less than one dozen
bottles in each package ; and all such bottles, except as specially
enumerated or provided for in this act, shall pay an additional
duty of three cents for each bottle."
The importers claimed by their protest that the articles
should have been assessed under the paragraph of Schedule A
of said act, (22 Stat. 494,) which provided as follows: "Proprietary preparations, to wit: All cosmetics, pills, powders,
troches, or lozenges, sirups, cordials, bitters, anodynes, tonics,
plasters, liniments, salves, ointments, pastes, drops, waters,
essences, spirits, oils or preparations or compositions recommended to the public as proprietary articles, or prepared
according to some private formula, as remedies or specifics for
any disease or diseases, or affections whatever, affecting the
human or animal body, including all toilet preparations whatever, used as applications to the hair, mouth, teeth, or skin,
not specially enumerated or provided for in this act, fifty per
centum ad valorem;" and that the bottles should have been
subjected to thirty per cent ad valorem under the paragraph
of Schedule B, (22 Stat. 495,) reading: "Green and colored
glass bottles, vials, demijohns, and carboys, (covered or uncovered,) pickle or preserve jars, and other plain, moulded, or
pressed green and colored bottle glass, not cut, engraved, or
painted, and not specially enumerated or provided for in this
act, one cent per pound; if filled, and hot otherwise in this act
provided for, said articles shall pay thirty per centum ad
valorem in addition to the duty on the contents."

ERHARDT v. STEINHAR DT.
Statement of the Case.

It appeared that the bitters in question are made in Antwerp and advertised as a proprietary preparation compounded
according to a private formula. The wrapper represented the
enclosed articles as "fine stomachic bitters known as ' Boonekamp,' the outcome of a fortunate discovery made by Mr. A.
E. Boonekamp, of Antwerp, Belgium, in the year 1815."
That they possessed valuable properties "as an appetizer and
as a regulator to the human system;" and as having "aperient
and digestive qualities;" that "as a preventative against all
forms of epidemic disease they are invaluable," while "taken in
doses of one spoonful before each meal, they aid digestion and
impart a healthy and vigorous action to the system. They
also make a pleasant refreshing beverage taken with water,
gin, or aniseed cordial."
A certified copy of the Flemish label, as registered in the
Patent Office, and the invoice in French were put in evidence.
Testimony was given tending to show that the bitters were
prepared by a secret formula; that they were claimed to be
valuable for aperient, digestive, and tonic qualities, and used
for the -cure or relief of cramps, dyspepsia, dysentery, and
sick stomach; that they were called patent medicines; and
sold by dealers in such medicines and by grocers. It was admitted by plaintiffs that their principal trade in the article
was with liquor dealers, and evidence was adduced that they
were sold by liquor firms and in the wine and spirit department of wholesale groceries, and generally dealt out from
retail bars. One bartender testified that he dispensed these
bitters to his customers, and "that some liked it in whiskey,
some in gin, and some liked it straight." Another witness
said they were not made to please the palate, as cordials were,
and that "people will shake themselves when they drink
them." It further appeared that the bitters were below
proof, containing only about 47 per cent of alcohol by
weight, while "proof spirits" require 49.- per cent, and that
they contained rhubarb, orange peel, turmeric, and an essential oil, supposed to be oil of anise.
Samples of these bitters were before the jury for examination and comparison, and there was evidence to the effect that

OCTOBER TERI,

1893.

Counsel for Parties.

substantially all bitters contained more or less alcohol; that
absinthe contained wormwood and anisette, and was bitter;
that neither absinthe, nor kirschwasser, nor arrack, nor curagoa, was a proprietary preparation ; and that cordials, liqueurs,
and the like, did not contain drugs. Testimony was given as
to the value and character of the bottles, but it was not returned in the bill of exceptions. The court charged the jury
as follows: "It is unnecessary for me to detain you, except
to state the question which it will be for you to answer in
this case, affirmatively or negatively: Is plaintiffs' bitters substantially similar to either cordials, liqueurs, arrack, absinthe,
kirschwasser, or ratafia? In determining the question of substantial similarity you may take into consideration any or all
of these compositions; the appearance presented to the senses;
its adaptability for use; the uses for which it is sold; and the
effect that it produces. Looking at the question of similarity
or dissimilarity on those various grounds, you will determine
whether it does or does not present any substantial similarity
to those enumerated articles."
The defendant excepted "to the ruling of the court in sending the specific question to the jury, as embodied in the
charge."
The jury, after deliberation, answered the question submitted by the court in the negative. Defendant's counsel
then moved the court for the direction of a verdict for the
defendant on the ground that the articles, although proprietary, were also bitters, containing spirits; that the articles
being equally provided for in both sections, the collector was
entitled to assess the higher rate of duty under the last paragraph of section 2499 of the Revised Statutes as amended.
This motion was denied, and defendant excepted. The jury
thereupon rendered a verdict, under the direction of the
court, for the plaintiffs, and, judgment having been rendered
thereon, this writ of error was sued out.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.

Mr. Edward Hartley for defendant in error.

ERlHARDT v. STEINHARDT.
Opinion of the Court.

Mi1. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Counsel for plaintiff in error concedes that the bitters in
question are proprietary preparations, and would be dutiable
as such if there were no other governing clause; but contends that, as between the paragraph relating to proprietary
preparations, and the paragraph relating to cordials, liqueurs,
and other similar spirituous beverages, or bitters containing
spirits, the latter should control; that the familiar rule that
the more specific designation governs cannot be applied, because neither of the two paragraphs is more specific than the
other; and that the beverage rate should -be applied under
the last clause of section 2499 of the :Revised Statutes as
amended in 1883, (22 Stat. 491,) providing that "if two or
more rates of duty should be applicable to any imported
article, it shall be classified for duty under the highest of such
rates."
But we are of opinion that this contention cannot be sustained on the ground simply that Boonekamp bitters were
a proprietary bitters, and also a bitters containing spirits.
The proprietary paragraph has such enumerating force that
a proprietary bitters, having a special character and value as
such, protected by trade-mark and recommended as a refmedy,
although it contains spirits, as bitters generally do, cannot be
treated as non-enumerated, or as so falling within two separate
clauses as to involve the same result, unless that conclusion be
compelled by other facts and circumstances disclosed in regard
to it. The real inquiry here was whether the article, though
confessedly dutiable as a proprietary preparation within the
statute, was so similar to cordials, liqueurs, arrack, absinthe,
kirschwasser, or ratafia as to be also susceptible of being
assessed under the clause applicable to the latter. This was
a question of fact, and we think properly left to the jury, if
there was any evidence upon which a verdict for defendant
in error could be justified. The question was, indeed, reduced
to a very narrow compass, for it was admitted that absinthe
was the only article named in the cordials' clause, to which

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the government could claim that Boonekamp bitters bore substantial similarity, a concession based on the view that absinthe
was the only "bitters" specified in the clause.
Absinthe, according to the Century Dictionary, is "the
common name of a highly aromatic liqueur of an opalinegreen color and bitter taste," and is prepared by "steeping in
alcohol or strong spirit bitter herbs," the chief of them being
wormwood. It was not denied that it is bitter; that it is
used as a beverage; and is not a proprietary preparation. It
appeared that the wormwood "has a medicinal effect upon
the human system as a tonic," and that the article contains
anisette, a cordial. On the other hand, Boonekamp bitters is
a proprietary prephration, recommended to the public as such,
and is prepared according to a private formula, as a remedy
for certain specific maladies. The label is duly registered at
the Patent Office. There was evidence tending to show that
it contains rhubarb, orange peel, turmeric, and an essential
oil, probably oil of anise; that it is bitter; that it is not
attractive as a beverage, and hardly used distinctively as
such; and that while it is sold largely by liquor dealers, and
used at bars, it is chiefly sold for use and used in water, wines,
or spirits, as a bitter, and for its cathartic, as well as tonic,
qualities. A bottle of the bitters was produced for the inspection and consideration of the jury. Both articles contain
alcohol in about the same proportion.
We are unable to conclude otherwise than that there was
evidence tending to show that Boonekamp bitters were not
substantially similar to absinthe, and that there was, therefore,
no ground for taking the case away from the jury. The verdict that there was no such similarity determined that these
bitters were properly classified under the proprietary preparation clause and this excluded them from all other provisions.
The rate of duty on the bottles was dependent on the rate of
duty on the contents, and the determination as to the latter
controlled.
Judgment afimned.

