OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

turned out, and nothing in the directions we gave prevented
the Circuit Court from holding the bank to a liability to pay
interest thereon if, in its judgment, it was justified in so doing
by the facts disclosed on the hearing. Ellis was the agent of
the bank and the money was kept and used by the bank,
being carried on the books to the credit of the "Dawson bond
account," subject to the determination of this suit. The language of the stipulation that the amount collected was deposited by Ellis as a "general deposit," and used "as other
general deposits," "as other of its funds," does not change
the legal effect of the transaction so far as Hunter & Co.
were concerned, who had nothing to do with the agreement
of the bank to indemnify Dawson's sureties on the replevin
bond. The use of their part of the money under the circumstances may have induced the Circuit Court to arrive at the
result complained of. We are not, however, called on to say
whether the allowance of the interest was or was not correct,
as the only question is whether that court disobeyed the mandate, which we do not think it did.
As to the costs, we are also clear that the action of- the
Circuit Court was not precluded by the former decision.
Leave to file the petition must, therefore, be
Denied.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
CLARK.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1045. Argued April 12,1894. -Decided

April 30, 1894.

No one can be permitted to go into a court of equity to enjoin the collection
of a tax, until he has shown himself entitled to the aid of the court by
paying so much of the tax assessed against him as it can be plainly seen
he ought to pay.
State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, and Arational Bank v. Kimball, 103
U. S. 732, affirmed and followed on this point.
The Northern Pacific Railroad Company, having accepted the provisions of
the act of Dakota of March 7, 1889, c. 107, became liable thereby to pay

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.

253

Statement of the Case.
the designated percentage of its gross earnings in lieu of taxes for the
year 1889, which liability was not discharged by the subsequent repeal of

the gross earnings act of 1889; and, having failed to make that payment,
or to make a tender of what was due under one or the other modes of
taxation, it is not entitled to relief in equity to enjoin the enforcement
of a tax upon its property as upon the property of individuals in the
counties in which the property is situated.

Tuis case, under the style of the Yortterm Pacific Railroad
Comany v. T-alker, 148 U. S. 391, was before this court at
October term, 1892, and the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
not appearing upon the face of the record, it was remanded
with leave to amend. The appellant accordingly, on June 6,
1893, filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of North Dakota its amended bill of complaint, in
which, after setting forth its creation and organization under
and by virtue of an act of Congress approved July 2, 1864,
c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, entitled, "An act granting lands to aid in
the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from Lake
Superior to Puget's Sound on the Pacific Coast by the northern route," and certain acts and joint resolutions of Congress
supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof, it was alleged
that for the purposes of laying out, locating, constructing, furnishing, and maintaining a railroad and the telegraph line between the points indicated there was granted to it by Congress
every alternate section of public land, not mineral, designated
by odd numbers, to the amount of twenty alternate sections
per mile on each side of the railroad line as the company
might adopt, through the Territories of the United States, and
ten alternate sections of land per mile on each side of the railroad line whenever it passed through any State, to which the
United States had full title, not reserved, sold, granted, or
otherwise appropriated, free from preemption or all other
claims at the time the line of the railroad should be definitely
fixed, and the plat thereof be filed with the Commissioner of
the General Land Office; that the railroad company duly accepted the terms, conditions, and impositions of said act of
Congress, and that on the respective dates of M ay 26, 1873,
and July 20, 1880, it definitely fixed the line of its, railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

through certain counties in the Territory of Dakota, (now the
State of North Dakota,) and filed plats thereof in the office of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office; that the line
of railroad so fixed extends opposite to and past the lands set
forth and described in the schedules made a part of the bill;
that prior to December 20, 1880, it had completed that portion of the railroad and telegraph line extending on, over,
and along the line of definite location of the railroad, and that
the President of the United States, from time to time, after the
same bad been examined by commissioners, had accepted the
railroad and telegraph line as having been constructed and
completed in all respects as required by the act of July 2,
1864, and the acts and joint resolutions supplementary and
amendatory thereof.
The bill further alleged that the lands on each side of the
railroad, and every portion thereof, were within forty miles of
the company's line of road so definitely fixed; that they were
public lands to which the United States had full title, not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and no entry
or application to make entry for the lands was made or was
pending when the lists of definite location were filed in the
office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office on May
26, 1873, and July 20, 1880; that the described lands had been
surveyed by United States surveyors, and had been reported
to be agricultural in their character and non-mineral; and
that the lands were not, on July 2, 1864, or May 26, 1873, and
July 20, 1880, known as mineral lands, etc.; that the company
had prior to the year 1889, in accordance with the direction of
the Secretary of the Interior, duly prepared and filed lists in
the United States land offices in the land districts in which
the lands were situated respectively, describing the lands and
claiming them as a portion enuring to it under and by virtue
of the act of Congress approved July 2, 1864, which lists were
duly allowed and approved by the United States district land
officers, to whom the fees prescribed by law were paid by the
company, and which were retained by the United States; that
the lists of lands so filed were duly transmitted by the district
land officers to the Commissioner of the General Land Office

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.

255

Statement of the Case.

for his approval; that since the lists were filed and transmitted
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the Commissioner, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior,
had required the company to file in the office of the Commissioner, or in the office of the land office districts in which the
lands were respectively situated, an affidavit made by some
person acquainted with the character of the lands, setting
forth and showing that the same were non-mineral, and that
until such affidavits had been filed the Commissioner refused
to approve the lists; that the company had not, nor had any
one in its behalf, filed affidavits of persons having knowledge
of the mineral or non-mineral character of the lands set out in
the lists.
The bill then proceeds to state that none of the lands described had ever been certified or patented to the railroad
company, and that neither the United States, nor any of its
officers or agents, had ever ascertained and determined what
specific lands in the State of North Dakota passed to the railroad company by virtue of the act of July 2, 1861, although
the railroad company had repeatedly petitioned to have this
done; that the United States and its officers had refused to
certify to the company the lands described in the schedules of
the bill, but held the lists suspended and unapproved upon the
claim that the lands may be mineral in character, and as such
excepted from the grant to the company, or that the lands
may not have been free from claims or rights reserved in the
grant, or that the question as to whether title to the lands had
passed to the railroad company under and by virtue of the
granting act, and acts amendatory thereof; that said matters
were still in controversy, and pending before the commissioner
of the General Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior.
It is further alleged that the railroad company had no other
right, title, claim, interest, property, or possession in or to any
of the lands or premises described in the bill except such right,
title, claim, interest, property, or possession as it may have
obtained under and by virtue of the acts and resolutions of
Congress, and its compliance with the conditions thereof.
It is then averred that on March 7, 1889, the legislature of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the Territory of Dakota passed an act, which was duly
approved by the governor of the Territory, entitled "An act
providing for the levy and collection of taxes upon the property of railroad companies in this Territory," in and by which
it was, among other things, enacted and provided: "In lieu of
any and all other taxes upon any railroads, except railroads
operated by horse power, within this Territory, or upon the
equipment, appurtenances, or appendages thereof, or upon any
other property situated within this Territory belonging to the
corporation owning or operating such railroads, upon the
capital stock, or business transactions of said railroad company,
there shall hereafter be paid into the treasury of this Territory
an amount equal to a percentage of all the gross earnings of
the corporation owning or operating such railroad arising from
the operation of such railroad as shall be situated within this
Territory, both upon territorial and interstate traffic, in case
the railroad company owning or operating such line shall
accept and become subject to this act as hereinafter provided,"
Laws of Dakota, 1889, c. 107, p. 134; that the railroad company did, within thirty days after the passage of this act, by
resolution of its board of directors, attested by its secretary,
filed with the secretary of the Territory of Dakota, accept and
become subject to the provisions of the act of M arch 7, 1889;
that within thirty days of its passage the railroad company,
as required by the act, prepared and filed with the treasurer
of the Territory, in the manner required by the provisions of
chapter 99 of the Session Laws of the Territory for the year
1883, an account of the gross earnings of the company, both
territorial and interstate, for the years 1886 and 1887, and
paid into the treasury the entire amount of taxes claimed by
the Territory on local and interstate earnings remaining
unpaid at the time of filing such account for said years, such
payment being as follows, to wit: For the last half of the year
1886, $38,095.31; for the year 1887, $65,585.46. Such sums
so paid, as provided for in the territorial act of March 7, 1889,
were percentages computed entirely upon gross earnings of the
company derived from domestic business, the percentage for
the same years computed upon the gross earnings derived from

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.
Statement of the Case.

interstate business having been previously paid by the company
as required by the provisions of the territorial act of 1883.
It was also alleged that, at the same time, the company paid
into the treasury of the Territory one-half of the entire amount
due for the year 1888, amounting to $46,937.09, and that
before August 15, 1889, it had paid the remainder of the
amount due for the year 1888; that the sums so paid into the
treasury for the year 1888 were percentages computed upon
the gross earnings of the company for that year, derived from
both domestic and interstate business, the former amounting
to 811,446.78 and the latter to $82,427.40, and it was alleged
that all the percentages derived from interstate business so
paid into the treasury were not due from the company, except
by virtue of the act of March 7, 1889, and the company's
acceptance thereof, and that they were paid as a consideration
for the exemption from taxation provided for by that act, and
for no other reason.
It is then charged that, notwithstanding the premises, in
the year 1889 the county auditors for the counties of Kidder,
Stutsman, Richland, and McLean, under the authority of the
laws of the Territory of Dakota, had assessed the company's
lands situate in their respective counties for purposes of county
taxation, and that they had advertised the lands as described
in the schedules to the bill, for sale, and were about to wrongfully sell the same for the non-payment of taxes so levied,
together with penalties and costs, and to issue certificates of
sale for the same in the form prescribed by the laws of North
Dakota, and unless restrained by the order of the court they
would sell the lands, and issue certificates of sale thereafter,
whereby the rights of the railroad company in and to the lands
would be irreparably injured, and lead to a multiplicity of suits
concerning the title thereto.
It was further claimed on the part of the railroad company
that the taxes so assessed and levied upon the lands were a
cloud upon the title of the railroad company thereto; that if
sold and certificates were issued to the purchaser, such certificates would constitute a cloud upon the title of the company
in and to the lands so sold; that the counties were bankrupt,
VOL. CLM-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

and that if the railroad company should pay the taxes and
then bring an action against them to recover the amount
thereof, it would require a multiplicity of suits, and such judgments as might be recovered would be worthless.
The bill further averred that the amount of the taxes levied
upon the lands, together with the costs and penalties claimed
by the county auditors to have accrued thereon, and for
which the lands had been advertised for sale, and were about
to be sold, were as follows: Upon the lands in Kidder County,
$12,820.67; upon the lands in Stutsman County, $8863.39;
upon the lands in Richland County, $4094.37; and upon the
the amount of such tax,
lands in McLean County, $048.17penalty, and cost upon each tract of land being particularly
shown in the schedules attached to the bill.
The prayer of the bill was to the effect that the county
assessments and taxes so levied upon the lands of the railroad
company might be declared illegal and void, and a cloud upon
the title of the company, and that the defendants, and each
of them, their deputies and successors in office, be restrained
from selling or attempting to sell the lands or any portion
thereof, or from issuing tax certificates therefor.
The defendants appeared and demurred to the amended bill
on the ground that, according to the showing made therein,
the plaintiff was not entitled to the relief sought. The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill on
the ground that the act of 1889 was void, because it violated
the organic act, which provided that the legislative assembly
of the Territory shall not make any discrimination in taxing
different kinds of property, but all property subject to taxation shall be taxed in proportion to its value; secondly, that
the bill was without equity in failing to allege payment or
tender of the gross earnings tax for the year 1889. 47 Fed.
Rep. 681.
From this judgment the railroad company appealed to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and that court, desiring instructions upon certain questions presented by the assignments of error filed in the cause,
certified to this court various propositions of law, as to

NORTHERN PAOIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.

259

Argument for Appellant.

whether the railroad company acquired such title to the oddnumbered sections of land within the place limits of the grant
of July 2, 1864, which were not mineral, and which, at the
dates of the grant and of the filing of the map of definite
location in the office of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, were not reserved, sold, granted, or otherwise
appropriated, as to render them taxable before being patented
and certified to the railroad company; whether the company
was taxable on such lands by the Territories after the filing
of the map of definite location of its railroad, and full compliance with the terms and conditions of the granting act,
while the United States refused to patent and certify such
lands to the company; whether chapter 107 of the Laws of
Dakota for 1889, being an act entitled "An act providing for
the levying and collection of taxes upon the properties of
railroad companies in this Territory," approved M,arch 7,
1889, was void as a regulation of interstate commerce;
whether the act of March 7, 1889, was in conflict with the
Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments of the Constitution of the
United States, and with the organic law of the Territory, as
an attempt to exempt from taxation the lands granted by the
act of July 2, 1864; whether the act of March 7, 1889, should
be construed as granting an exemption for the year 1889, or
to be in force and effect only after the year 1890. The
eighth and remaining question certified is as follows: "Is
said bill without equity because of the failure to aver that
the complainant has tendered or paid the 'gross earnings
tax' for the year 1889; and is said complainant entitled to
the equitable relief prayed without first tendering or paying
such tax ?"

.M ..F. I. Dudley, for appellant, with regard to this eighth
question said:
Is said bill without equity because of the failure to aver
that the complainant has tendered or paid the "gross earnings tax" for the year 1889 ; and is said complainant entitled
to the equitable relief prayed without first tendering or paying such tax ?

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

I. In the discussion of the propositions arising under this
question, the constitutionality of the "gross earnings law"
is, necessarily, conceded, but while admitting the constitutionality of the exemption, appellees deny the right of the
company to claim the benefit thereof until the gross earnings
percentage money is paid. It is an attempt to apply the
familiar rule that he who seeks equity must do equity.
The limitation of the rule is that the amount to be paid as
a condition precedent to invoking the aid of a court of equity
is the amount conceded to be due, or what can be seen to be
due on the face of the bill, or be shown by affidavits, whether
conceded or not. The State is not to be tied up as to that of
which there is no contest, by lumping it with that which is
really contested. State )ailroad Tama Cases, 92 U. S. 575,
617.
II. The exemption from assessment and levy of taxes in
the ordinary manner, made by the "gross earnings law," did
not depend upon the payment of the three per centum of the
gross earnings in the first instance, but upon the filing with
the secretary of the Territory of a resolution adopted by the
railroad company and attested by its secretary, accepting the
provisions of the act and subjecting the corporation to its
terms. Immediately upon such action being taken by a railroad company which had qualified itself to accept the act by
filing an account of the earnings under the act of 1883, and
paying all percentages then due upon both interstate and territorial earnings as claimed by the Territory, the exemption
became effective. The liability of the railroad company to
pay the percentage upon its gross earnings, by virtue of its
acceptance of the act, rather than the actual payment, was
the consideration upon which the exemption became effective.
By the "gross earnings act" the Territory was given a lien
upon the railroad of the company, and upon all property,
estate, or effects of the company, real or mixed, to secure the
payment of the per centum, and such lien took precedence of
all demands, decrees, and judgments against said company.
By the fourth section of the act, the territorial treasurer was

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.

261

Argument for Appellant.

authorized to distrain and sell sufficient property to pay the
amount due from the corporation in case of its failure to pay
such amount when due, or within thirty days thereafter. This
remedy, given in the "gross earnings act" itself, was an exclusive remedy. And since the exemption by the "gross earnings
act" is necessarily perfect upon the acceptance of the act,
and nearly a year prior to the time when the first payment of
the per centum is required, and is founded, not upon the actual
payment, but upon the liability to pay, it is evident that the
failure to make such payment cannot be a more material
factor in considering appellant's equitable right to an injunction restraining the sale than it would where the ground of
exemption is the interest of the government in the lands. The
material question is the exemption. If that exist the ground
upon which it is founded, so long as it is not the actual payment of the per centum, is immaterial. Conceding the exemption, the right to the equitable relief cannot be questioned.
Since the failure to pay the "gross earnings" per centum
would not give the counties the right to tax these lands as
other lands are taxed, it is not essential to negative such failure
in the bill of complaint; and no inference can be drawn from
the absence of an averment, that no such payment has been
made ; and that portion of the opinion of the Circuit Court,
holding that there is no equity in complainant's bill, is founded
upon an assumed fact that is not in the record.
HI. There was, and is, no "gross earnings" percentage
due, and there is no one authorized to receive such money.
Long prior to the time any payments became due under the
act for the year 1889, it was repealed. No part of the "gross
earnings" percentage for 1889 became payable until 1890, as
prior to that time no report of the gross earnings of the company for that year could be made. Prior to that time, and
on October 1, 1889, the constitution of the State of North
Dakota was adopted. Under this constitution, November 2,
1889, North Dakota was declared admitted to the Union by
proclamation of the President. 26 Stat. 1548.
It is apparent from the provisions of this constitution which

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

are printed in the margin 1 that the power to pass a gross
earnings law exempting the lands granted to the company was
withheld from the legislature. The gross earnings law of
1889 was therefore repealed by the adoption of the constitution, as repugnant to it.
The law is well settled that when a statute is repealed it
must be considered (except as to transactions passed and
closed) as if it had never existed. The authority of an officer
to act thereunder terminates with the repeal, unless the
right so to act is especially saved in the repealing act.
Where a statute requires a certain tax to be collected and
the act is repealed before the collection is made, or the tax
due, the right to make such collection is gone. Bleidor'n v.
Abel, 6 Iowa, 5; Tan Inwage, v. Chicago, 61 Illinois, 31;
The .&ariom Township Road Co. v. Sleeth, 53 Indiana, 35;
Commonwealth v. Standafrd Oil Co., 101 Penn. St. 119; St.
1 Section 2 of the schedule of the constitution provides: "All laws now
in force in the Territory of Dakota which are not repugnant to this constitution, shall remain in force until they expire by their own limitations or be
altered or repealed."
Section 176 of article XI. thereof provides: " . . . But the legislative assembly may, by law, provide for the payment of a per centum of
gross earnings of railroad companies to be paid in lieu of all state, county,
township and school taxes on property exclusively used in and about the
prosecution of the business of such companies as common carriers, but no
real estate of such corporation shall be exempted from taxation in the
same manner, and on the same basis as other real estate is taked, except
road-bed, right of way, shops and buildings used exclusively in their business as common carriers, and whenever and so long as such law providing
for the payment of a per centum on earnings shall be in force, that part of
section 179 of this article relating to assessment of railroad property shall
cease to be in force."
Section 179 of said article is as follows: "All property, except as hereinafter in this section provided, shall be assessed in the county, city,
township, town, village or district in which it is situated, in the manner
prescribed by law. The franchise, roadway, road-bed, rails and rolling
stock of all railroads operated in this State shall be assessed by the state
board of equalization at their actual value, and such assessed valuation
shall be apportioned to the counties, cities, towns, townships and districts
in which said roads are located, as a basis for taxation of such property in
proportion to the number of miles of railway laid in such counties, cities,
towns, townships, and districts."

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD 'v. CLARK.

263

Opinion of the Court.

Joseph's County v. Rueckman, 57 Indiana, 96; Bennet v.
Hargus, 1 Nebraska, 419; Butler v. Palmer, 1 Hill. 324.
IV. A valuable consideration for the exemption from taxation was, in fact, given by the railroad company and accepted
and retained by the State.
The gross earnings law of 1889 is an offer on the part
of the Territory to make a contract with any railroad company by the terms of which the company obligates itself to
pay to the Territory a certain percentage of the company's
gross earnings, and the Territory, in consideration of such
obligation, agrees to exempt from any and all other taxation
the property of the company. The tax law of 1883, which
was in force prior to that, was accepted by the Northern
Pacific Company, and taxes were paid in accordance with it
up to 1887. By the second section of the act of Congress of
July 2, 1864, incorporating complainant, it is provided that
"the right of way shall be exempt from taxation within the
Territories of the United States." This exemption from taxation includes all buildings, superstructures, etc., that were attached to the soil of such right of way. .Northern Pacifhe
Railroad v. Carland, 5 Montana, 146. Under the provisions of the act of Congress approved July 15, 1870, 16 Stat.
291, the lands granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company could not be taxed until the company had paid "into
the treasury of the United States the cost of surveying, selecting and conveying" the lands granted to the company. The
railroad company did not, prior to 1887, pay such fees upon
lands owned by it, and hence its lands were not taxable.
.Jorthern Pacijo Railroad v. Traill County, 115 U. S. 600.
In 1887 its lands became taxable, under the operation of the
act of July 10, 1886, c. 764, 24 Stat. 143.
Mr. Edgar W. Camp, (with whom was Mr. S. L. Glaspell
on the brief,) for appellees. Xr. TV. -H. Standish filed a brief
for the county auditor of Kidder County, appellee.
MR. JusTiCE J.AKsox, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In the view we take of the case, the answer to the last
question will dispose of the suit, and render it unnecessary to
enter upon the consideration and determination of the other
propdsitions of law on which instructions are asked.
By an act of the legislature of' the -Territory, approved
March 9, 1883, c. 99, Laws of 1883, it was provided that all
railroad companies, except railroads operated by horse power,
owned and operated within the Territory, should pay two per
centum on the gross earnings of their railroads for a period
of five years, and thereafter three per centum on the gross
earnings, in lieu of all other taxes upon said railroads and the
capital stock and business thereof. The payment of this percentage was to be made at designated dates in each year, and
penalties were imposed upon the companies failing to comply
with the provisions of the law as to the making of returns of
earnings and paying the percentages imposed by the act.
The moneys so received and collected were to be apportioned
between the Territory and the several counties through which
the railroads respectively ran.
This act of 1883 left the railroad companies no choice as to
whether they would pay the designated percentage on their
gross earnings, or remain subject to taxation upon their property in the ordinary method. It was compulsory upon them.
It is not material to the present case to consider whether this
act was constitutional or not; it was repealed by the act of the
legislature approved January 29, 1889. Now, it is shown by
the bill that at the time the act of 1883 was repealed the
appellant was in default of the payment of the percentages
due upon its gross earnings for the years 1886, 1887, and 1888.
On March 7, 1889, the legislature of the Territory of Dakota passed the act, entitled "An act providing for the levy
and collection of taxes upon property of railroad companies
in this Territory," I which went into force and effect immediately after its passage.
1 Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Dakota:
1. Percentage qf gross earningsto be paid in lieu of other taxes.- In lieu
of any and all other taxes upon any railroads, except railroads operated by
horse power, within this Territory, or upon the equipment, appurtenances,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.

265

Opinion of the Court.

This act is by its terms nothing but a tax law, and while it
adopted the same rule of percentages on the gross earnings as
or appendages thereof, or upon any other property situated in this Territory belonging to the corporation owning or operating such railroads, upon
the capital stock or business transactions of said railroad company, there
shall hereafter be paid into the treasury of this Territory an amount equal
to a percentage of all the gross earnings of the corporation owning or
operating such railroad, arising from the operating of such railroad, as
shall be situated within this Territory, both upon territorial and interstate
traffic, in case the railroad company owning or 6perating such line shall
accept and become subject to this act as hereinafter provided.
Every such railroad corporation or person owning or operating or that
may hereafter own or operate any line of railroad in this Territory which
shall have accepted this act shall pay to said treasurer each year "for the
first five years "after the approval of this act an amount equal to three per
centum of such gross earnings, "and for and in each and every year after
the expiration of such five years an amount equal to two per cent of said
gross earnings," and the payment of such amount annually as aforesaid
shall be and is in full of any and all other taxation and assessment whatever upon the property aforesaid.
Said payments shall be made, except as hereinafter provided, one-half
on or before the 15th day of February, and one-half on or before the first
day of August in each year. And for the purpose of ascertaining the
gross earnings aforesaid, an accurate account of such earnings shall be
kept by said company. An abstract shall be furnished by said company to
the treasurer of this Territory on or before the first day of February in
each year, the truth of which abstract shall be verified by the affidavits Of
the treasurer and secretary of such company, and for the purpose of ascertaining the truth of such affidavits and the correctness of such abstracts,
full power is hereby vested in the governor of this Territory, or any other
person appointed by law, to examine under oath the officers, employds of
said company, or other persons, and if any person so examined by the governor or other authorized person shall knowingly or wilfully swear falsely,
concerning the matter aforesaid, every such person is declared to have
committed perjury; and for the purpose of securing to the Territory the
payment of the aforesaid per centnm it is hereby declared that the Territory shall have a lien upon the railroad of said company, and upon all ,
property, estate, or effects of said company whatsoever, personal, real, or
mixed, and the lien hereby secured to the Territory shall have and take
precedence of all demands, decrees, and judgments against said company.
2. When company shall fail to make return. - If any such railroad company having accepted this act shall fail to make return of its gross earnings
as aforesaid, or of any part thereof, at the time and in the manner provided
by law, and such default shall continue during the period of thirty days,
sucb company shall be subject to a penalty of an amount equal to ten per
0

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

is provided in the act of 1883, it differed from that act in not
being compulsory upon the railroad companies, for it left to
cent of the tax imposed upon such company by this act, and the treasurer
of the Territory shall forthwith ascertain the amount of such percentage
justly due from such company, as near as may be, from such evidence as
may be available, and shall thereupon collect such amount so ascertained,
together with the said penalty thereon.
The amount so ascertained by the territorial treasurer as in this section
provided shall, together with the said penalty thereon, be by him entered in
the books of his office, and such entry when so made shall stand in the place
of the report required by law to be made by such company, and shall in all
courts within this Territory be evidence of the amount of such tax and penalty and of the other facts stated therein in pursuance of this act.
3. Neglect to pay taxes. - In case any railroad company which shall have
accepted the provisions of this act shall fail or neglect to pay the amount
reported at the time and in the manner hereinafter provided, for a period
of thirty days after the same shall have become due by the terms thereof,
in such case there shall be added to the amount of such tax ten per centum
thereof as a penalty for such failure or neglect to pay.
4. Territorialtreasurerto distrain.- At any time after the expiration of
the period of thirty days after the amount as above provided has become
due and payable under the provisions of this act, the territorial treasurer or
his deputy shall distrain sufficient goods, chattels, or other movable property, if found within this Territory, to pay the said amount due from such
corporation, together with the penalty thereon as hereinafter provided, and
'shall immediately advertise the sale of the same in at least three newspapers
published within this Territory, stating the time when and the place where
such property shall be sold; such sale shall take place at some point on the
railroad of such delinquent company, and at least four weeks' notice of the
time and place of such sale shall be given; such delinquent company, its
successors or assigns, may pay in such amount and penalty at any time
before the sale of the property distrained as herein provided, and thereupon
further proceedings in connection with such distress shall cease, and the
property distrained shall be delivared to the owner thereof.
5. Land subject to taxation. -The lands of any railroad company shall
become subject to taxation in the same manner as other similar property
as soon as the same are sold, leased, contracted to be sold or leased; and
on or before the first day of April of each year each railroad company
having lands within this Territory shall return to the county clerk of each
county within this Territory full and complete lists, verified by the affidavit
of such officers of the company having knowledge of the facts, of all lands
of such company situated within such county, sold, or contracted to be
sold, or leased, during the year ending the last day of December preceding,
and the list furnished on or before the first day of April, A.D. 1889, in compliance with the terms of this section, shall include a complete list of all
lands sold or leased, prior to the last day of December, 1888.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.

267

Opinion of the Court.

them the election as to which of two modes of taxation they
should accept or submit to. It practically gave to the rail6. How taxes apportioned.- The moneys received and collected by the
territorial treasurer in pursuance to this act shall be disposed of by him as
follows: In case the railroad company paying such tax owns no land
granted in aid of the construction of its railroad, one-third of the same
shall be retained in the territorial treasury for the use of the Territory, and
the remainder shall be apportioned among the several counties into or
through which the railroad or railroads of such companies run, in proportion to the number of miles of main track situated in such counties respectively. In case the railroad company paying such tax owns land granted
in aid of the construction of its railroad, then thirty per cent of the tax
paid by such company shall be retained in the territorial treasury for the
use of the Territory, and forty per cent shall be apportioned among the
several counties into or through which the railroad or railroads of such
company run, in proportion to the number of miles of main track situated
in such counties, respectively, and thirty per cent shall be apportioned
among the several counties in which lands forming a part of its land grant
are situated, in proportion to the number of acres of surveyed and unsold
lands in said counties.
7. Any railroad company. - Which, at the date of the passage of this
act owns or is engaged in operating any line or lines of railroad in this
Territory, may at any time within thirty days after the passage of this act,
by resolution of its board of directors, attested by its secretary, and fed
with the secretary of the Territory, accept and become subject to the
provisions of this act, and provided that any railroad company which is
now in arrears in the payment of taxes assessed under chapter 99 of the
Laws of 1883 shall, within thirty days after the passage of this act, pay
into the territorial treasury the full amount of the taxes and interest due
under the assessments under said laws of 1883 before they can avail themselves of the provisions of this act, by accepting its terms, including taxes
on both territorial and interstate earnings. It is further expressly provided
that any company failing to strictly comply with the provisions of this act
within the term herein provided shall be immediately subject to assessment
and taxation in the manner provided for the assessment and taxation of
the property of individuals of this Territory, and said taxes shall be
collected in the same manner as is now provided in cases of the property
of individuals. Any company which has not complied with the provisions
of chapter 99 of the Session Laws of 1883, by paying all taxes claimed on
gross earnings both territorial .and interstate, or by filing an account of
gross earnings both territorial and interstate, shall prepare and file such
account in the manner therein provided within thirty days from the passage
hereof, and pay one-half of the entire amount due under the agreement
and acceptance herein referred to, for the current year, and also the entire
amount of taxes heretofore claimed by the Territory on local and interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

road companies the choice of having their property taxed as
other property in the Territory, by assessment and levy, or of
taking the benefits of the act upon the terms and conditions
provided therein. It was, by section 7, made a condition of
earnings of such companies, but remaining unpaid at the time of filing said
account and within thirty days after the passage of this act, or the same
shall not apply to such company or companies. The balance of said taxes
due for the current year shall be paid to the territorial treasurer on or
before the 15th day of August, 1889. Any railroad company that may be
hereafter organized in this Territory, or that shall hereafter become the
owner of or engaged in operating any lines of railroad in this Territory,
may accept and become subject to the provisions of this act by filing a
resolution of its board of directors in the manner as hereinbefore provided.
In case any such railroad company shall accept and become subject to
the provisions of this act, it shall at the time of filing such acceptance
render an account of gross earnings both territorial and interstate, in the
manner as hereinbefore provided, and shall pay at the time of rendering
such account, all amounts claimed by the territorial auditor as taxes due on
the local and interstate earnings of such company for the current or any
preceding year, and shall thereafter pay an amount equal to 3 per centum
of such account, as follows: If such acceptance is filed on or before the
fifteenth day of February in any year, such company shall pay one-half of
said amount on said fifteenth day of February, and the balance on the fifteenth day of August following. Should such acceptance be filed before
the fifteenth day of August and after the fifteenth day of February in any
year, then an amount equal to 3 per centum of such account shall be paid
in full on or before the fifteenth day of August in each year. Thereafter
accounts shall be rendered and payment made in the manner provided in
this act; provided, that any company failing to promptly and strictly comply with the provisions herein set forth and to pay all sums herein provide'd to be paid shall be subject to assessment and taxation in the same
manner as individuals.
8. In case of non-acceptance. - The railroads and property of all railroad
companies owning or operating lines of railway in this Territory, which
companies shall not accept and become subject to the provisions of this act,
shall not be entitled to the exemption in this act contained, but shall be
subject to taxation in such manner as shall be provided by law.
9. Bepeal or amendment. - This act shall be subject to repeal or amendment by any future legislature, and nothing herein contained shall be construed as a repeal of any revenue law now in existence, as applicable to
any railroad company which shall not accept the provisions of this act as
herein provided.
10. Effect when. - This action shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage.
Approved March 7, 1889.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.

269

Opinion of the Court.

the acceptance of the act that "any railroad company assessed
under chapter 99 of the Laws of 1883 shall, within thirty days
after the passage of this act, pay into the territorial treasury
the full amount of the taxes and interest due under the assessments under said laws of 1883, including taxes on both territorial and interstate earnings," "before they can avail themselves of the provisions of this act." It was further provided
that any company failing to strictly comply with the provisions
of the act within the time provided should be immediately
subject to assessment and taxation upon its property in the
same manner as the property of individuals was assessed and
taxed.
The companies accepting the benefits of the act were not
only to pay arrearages under the law of 1883, but were also
to pay a percentage of gross earnings for the current year of
1889, it being provided that "if such acceptance was filed on
or before the 15th day of February in any year such companies
should pay one-half of said amount on said 15th day of
February and the balance on the 15th day of August next
following. Should acceptance be filed before the 15th day
of August and after the 15th day of February in any year,
then an amount equal to three per centum of such account
shall be paid in full on or before the 15th day of August in
each year."
It is shown by the bill that the appellant accepted the
provisions and benefits of the act within thirty days after
March 7, 1889, and it thereby became liable to pay the required percentage on its gross earnings on or before the 15th
day of August, 1889. It is also shown by the bill that within
thirty days after the passage of the act it paid the arrearages
of percentages on its gross earnings accruing under the act of
1883, for the years 1886, 1887, and 1888; but it is not alleged
that it made payment, or tender of payment, of the percentage
on its gross earnings for the year 1889, or any portion thereof,
although by the express provisions of the act a percentage on
a portion of such gross earnings was due and payable on the
15th day of August, 1889.
The moneys to be received and collected by the territorial

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

treasurer under this act from the railroad companies which
accepted its provisions were to be apportioned between the
Territory and the several counties, respectively, through which
the railroads run, or in which the companies had lands subject
to taxation, in the manner pointed out in section 6 of the act.
The several counties, whose auditors are made defendants in
the present case, were therefore interested in the gross earnings tax, which the appellant was required to pay for the year
1889 in lieu of all other ordinary taxes upon its property.
The gross earnings act remained in force until November
.2, 1889, when it was repealed by the repugnant provisions
contained in the constitution of the State of North Dakota,
as adopted and approved by Congress, and the claim is now
made by the appellant that this repeal relieves it from liability to pay any percentage on its gross earnings for the year
1889, or any part thereof, because the same was not payable
until after 1890; and that it was not liable to assessment and
taxation on its property because it had accepted the provisions
.of the gross earnings act of 1889.
This contention, if correct, would relieve the appellant from
.any burden in the way of taxation for the year 1889, but such
.a claim as this cannot possibly be sustained. The act of
March 7, 1889, clearly intended that the gross earnings tax,
therein provided for, as to all companies which would accept
.its provisions, should supply revenue for the Territory and
the counties for the year 1889. It is equally clear from the
whole act, as a tax law, that the railroad company had to
pay the required percentage on its gross earnings for that
year, and that such percentage was payable in part on the 15th
day of August in that year. It is not therefore correct to
-say that no part of the gross earnings were payable until
1890; but, if that were not the case, having accepted the
provisions of that act and thus becoming liable to pay the designated percentage of its gross earnings in lieu of taxes for the
year 1889, that liability would not be discharged by the sub-sequent repeal of the gross earnings act of 1889. If the company was released from the gross earnings tax by the repeal of
:the act its property immediately became subject to assessment

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. CLARK.

271

Opinion of the Court.

and taxation in the manner provided for the assessment and
taxation of property of individuals in the Territory, and it would
not vitiate any such assessment made on the part of the counties
that happened to be made prior to the repeal of the act of
1889. Such assessment would remain in full force and effect
after the repeal of the act, and until satisfied.
It is next contended by the appellant that its payment of
arrearages, claimed to be due under the act of 1883, was a
consideration for the exemption of its property from taxation
for the year 1889. This position cannot be sustained, for, by
the terms of the act of 1889, the payment of those arrearages
was simply a condition upon which the railroad company was
allowed to accept the benefits of that act, which was not an
act exempting the property of the railroad company from
taxation, but merely substituted one mode of taxation for
another upon the terms and conditions specified. One of the
terms on which the railroad was allowed to accept the gross
earnings tax, in lieu of the ordinary tax upon its property,
was that it should pay the arrearages which the Territory
claimed under the act of 1883. No exemption from taxation
for the year 1889 was contemplated. The railroads accepting
the act were required to pay the gross earnings tax for that
year in addition to such arrearages. It cannot, therefore, be
properly claimed that the payment of these arrearages constituted a consideration for any exemption from taxation, or
that such payment raised any equity on the part. of the appellant against the payment of taxes for 1889, whether
such taxes were imposed in the shape of a percentage on the
gross earnings for that year, or in the shape of the ordinary
assessment upon its property.
There is nothing in the allegations of the bill showing
affirmatively that the company did not possess the equitabletitle or ownership in the lands described and assessed. Nor
do the averments of the bill negative the fact that the appel]ant was properly chargeable with taxes on the lands coming
within the grant of July 2, 1864, and within the limits of the
line of definite location of its road. Payment of the gross
,earnings tax, imposed by the act of 1889, would have dis-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ctiarged all claims for taxes upon the company's lands for that
year, but no ground is shown by the bill for releasing the appellant from the payment of either the percentage tax on its
gross earnings, or from the payment of the assessments upon
its lands made by the county auditors. By section 7 of the
act of 1889, its failure to promptly and strictly comply with
the provisions thereof, and pay all sums therein provided to
be paid, subjected the company to assessment and taxation in
the same manner as individuals. It did not comply with the
provisions of the act in paying the percentage of gross earnings due on the 15th day of August, 1889, and thereupon its
property became liable to assessment and taxation as the property of individuals in the several counties.
Being liable to pay either the percentage on gross earnings
in accordance with the provisions of the act of 1889, or the
tax upon its lands, as other property of like character was
assessed, the appellant was not entitled to any relief in a court
of equity by injunction without payment or tender of what
was due under one or the other of these modes of taxation.
In State Railroad Tao Cases, 92 U. S. 5*75, 616, 617, the
rule is established that before an injunction will be granted in
such cases as the present, a party must pay or tender what
can be seen to be due on the face of the bill, and, speaking
for the court in that case,.]Mr. Justice Miller said that the duty
of making such a tender or payment before any injunction
will be allowed is laid down "as a rule to govern the courts of
the United States in their action in such cases." This rule
was repeated in .Y1ational Banko v. Kimball, 103 U. S. 732,733,
where it was treated as a fatal objection to the bill that there
was no offer to pay any sum as a tax which the party ought
to pay, and, again speaking for this court, Mr. Justice Miller
'there said: "We have announced more than once that it is
the established rule of this court that no one can be permitted
to go into a court of equity to enjoin the collection of a tax,
until he has shown himself entitled to the aid of the court by
paying so much of the tax assessed against him as it can be
plainly seen he ought to pay," etc.
Applying this rule to the present case, it is clear that the

MANN

v. TACOMTA LAND COMAPANY.
Statement of the Case.

appellant's bill was properly dismissed for failing to pay, or
tender to pay, taxes which he ought to have paid on its property, or, in lieu thereof, a percentage of its gross earnings.
Our response, therefore, to the eighth question certified is,
that the bill was without equity, because of the failure to aver
that the plaintiff had tendered or paid the gross earnings percentage for the year 1889, (or the tax assessed by the county
auditors,) and was not entitled to the equitable relief prayed
without first tendering or paying such taxes.
The answer of the court to that question will accordingly be
certified to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.
Mr. JusTicE BREWER dissented.

MANN v. TACOMA LAND COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
TEE DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 375. Argued April 18, 19, 1894.-Decided April 30, 1894.

Scrip or certificates for public land,
c. 89, 17 Stat. 649, "for the relief
located on tide land in the State of
by the flow and ebb of the tide.
The general legislation of Congress
extend to tide lands.

issued under the act of April 5, 1872,
of Thomas B. Valentine," cannot be
Washington, covered and uncovered
in respect to public lands does not

ON July 12, 1890, appellant as plaintiff filed his bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Washington to restrain the defendant from entering and trespassing
upon certain premises. Subsequently, by leave of the court,
an amended bill was filed. In that, plaintiff claimed title to
three separate tracts. The allegations as to one were as
follows:
"2. That on the 29th day of October, 1889, the followingVOL. CLin-18

