OCTOBER TERME, 1893.
Syllabus.

In answering this third question we have not considered it
either necessary or proper to express any opinion as to what
would have been the proper action of the Circuit Court in
dealing with the petitioner's application. Whether the writ
of habeas corpus should have been denied, and the petitioner
put to his writ of error, or whether, after the allowance of the
writ of habeascorpus, he should have been committed to the
custody of the warden of the Ohio penitentiary, with directions to carry out and enforce only that portion of the sentence
imposing imprisonment for five years, according to the rules,
regulations, and discipline of the institution. These are
matters which the Circuit Court of Appeals should settle and
dispose of under the appeal of the United States from the
judgment of the Circuit Court discharging the prisoner.
We accordingly direct that each of the three questions certifedfrom the United States Circuit Court of Ajpealsfor
the Sixth Circuit be answered in the negative, and be so
certified to that court.

THE AMARTELLO.
APPEAT

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF T1E UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 293. Argued March 15, 16, 1894.-Decided April 16, 1894.

A steamship, entering or leaving the port of New York in a fog through
which vessels cannot be seen when distant more than a quarter of a
mile, should reduce its speed to the lowest point consistent with good
steerage way.
It is the duty of a steamship, hearing a blast from a fog-horn on its starboard bow, indicating that a vessel is approaching from a direction which
may take it across the steamer's bow, to stop at once until she can assure
herself of the bearing, speed, and course of the approaching vessel.
It is within the discretion of the court below to refuse to find a fact asked
for several months after the disposal of the case on other issues, but if
such finding is made it is binding on this court.
The requirement in article 12 of the International rules and regulations for
preventing collisions at sea, that sailing vessels shall be provided with
an efficient fog-horn, to be sounded by a bellows, or other mechanical

THE MARTELLO.
Statement of the Case.
means, is so far obligatory, as to throw upon the sailing vessel in fault
the burden of proof, in case of collision, that the want of a mechanical
fog-horn could not have contributed to it.

Tuis was a libel and cross-libel for a collision between the
American barkentine Freda A. Wiley and the British steamship Martello, which occurred on the 8th day of May, 1887, at
8 o'clock in the morning, about two miles to the northward
and eastward of the Sandy Hook lightship, in a fog, and
resulted in the sinking of the barkentine.
The District Court found both vessels to have been in fault
for excessive speed, and entered a decree dividing the damages
and costs. On appeal to the Circuit Court this decree was
reversed, and the Martello adjudged to have been wholly in
fault, and a decree entered for the original libellants in the
sum of $23,943.43, from which decree the owners of the Martelo appealed.
Pursuant to the statute, the Circuit Court, on July 31, 1889,
made and filed the following findings of fact and conclusions
of law, viz.:
"1. The Martello is a British steamship of 2439 tons net
register, 370 feet in length, 43 feet beam, and 28 feet in depth,
owned by the respondents and appellants, Charles Henry
Wilson and Arthur Wilson, and is one of the Wilson line of
steamers plying between New York and Hull and other
foreign ports.
"2. The Martello left her dock in Jersey City on Saturday
afternoon, May 7, 1887, laden with a miscellaneous cargo of
merchandise, bound for Hull, England. The weather was so
foggy that she could not go down the channel, but anchored
for the night in Gravesend Bay.
"3. The Martello got under way from Gravesend Bay about
'6A.M. Sunday, May 8, 1887, and started for sea in command
of Captain Francis E.Jenkins, the senior captain of the New
York service of the line, and in charge of Pilot Joseph Henderson. The weather was thick, but sufficiently clear to enable
the buoys marking the channel to be seen. She proceeded
down the swash channel and thence through Gedney's channel
to sea.
VOL. CLM-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

"4. When about half a mile to the westward of the perchand-ball buoy, i.e. about north from the black buoy No. 1,
her engine was stopped for the purpose of slowing the vessel
until the pilot could be discharged; that being done, the
engines were at 7.10 A.M. moved slow ahead.
"5. About 40 minutes after discharging the pilot the horn,
one blast of a sailing vessel, was heard on the starboard bow.
At that time the captain and third officer were on the bridge,
a competent lookout was in the cro'nest, about 100 feet abaft
the stern, [?] the first officer was on the lookout on the forecastle, and the quartermaster was at the wheel.
"6. At that time the steamer was heading E. S. E.; the
wind was about E. by N., blowing a five to six knot -breeze;
the fog had grown denser and vessels could not be seen over
a quarter of a mile away; the whistle of the steamer had
been blown regularly at intervals of thirty seconds or less, and
her speed was about 54 to 6 knots an hour; three knots an
hour would give her good steerage-way.
"7. About a minute or two after hearing the horn the officers of the Martello saw the barkentine Freda A. Willey
looming in sight through the fog.
"8. On April 24, 1887, the barkentine Freda A. Willey left
Pensacola, bound through Long Island Sound for New Haven,
with a cargo of yellow-pine lumber, and on Sunday, May 8,
about 8 o'clock A.M., she was bound into the harbor of New
York.
"9. The Willey, with all her sails set, can make ten knots
an hour; with the wind, as found in the sixth finding, the
Willey, if going at less than four knots an hour, would not
have steerage-way sufficient to give her master thorough control of her to tack, wear, or manage her as occasion might
require.
"10. About 4 &.3. of May 8 she was sailing with her mainsail, spanker, main-staysail, upper and lower fore-topsails,
fore-topgallant sail, and three jibs; at 5 A.M. the wind freshened
and she took in her royal; at 7 A.M., the wind freshening, her
fore-sail was hauled up.
"11. There was on deck of the Willey, before the collision,

THE ATARTELLO.
Statement of the Case.

Cobb, able seaman; on the lookout, Mlathlin, able seaman; at
the wheel, Ludvinger, second mate, and Willey, captain, about
her deck; the rest of the crew were below; she was heading
north, close-hauled on the starboard tack, sounding her horn
at intervals of one or two minutes, and making about four
knots an hour.
"12. While thus proceeding she thrice heard the steam
whistle of a steamer, answering promptly each time with a
single blast of her horn; at this last signal the 74artello
appeared in sight, bearing about four points on the port bow
and a quarter of a mile away.
"13. As soon as the Wiley loomed in sight of those on the
Martello, as indicated in the seventh finding, the first officer
4f the steamship called out 'hard-a-port,' and the lookout
reported a vessel on the starboard bow; the captain immediately ordered the helm hard-a-port and the engines reversed
full speed.
"14. The speed of the Martello under a hard-a-port helm
and with engines reversed at full speed became gradually
reduced, and at the time of the collision was about two knots
an hour.
"15. The place of collision was about 11 miles about N. by
E. from Sandy Hook lightship.
"16. As the vessels neared each other the first officer of
the Martello called out to the barkentine, 'Luff, luff all you
can,' but his call was not heard by those on board the Willey.
"17.From the time of the hearing of the first whistle
down to the time of the collision, the steamer, except as
stated in the sixteenth finding, gave no.signal or indication
showing whether her intention was to go ahead of the barkentine or astern, or even whether she had reversed her
engines. In consequence the Willey held her course as she
was bound to do, but the steamer ran into her with great
violence, the steamer's stem running into the port bow of the
barkentine, cutting its way into her keel, knocking her stem
over to starboard and driving her bow round to eastward.
"18. Had the steamer been going at three knots an hour,
had she stopped her engines as soon as she heard the Willey's

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

horn and reversed when she sighted the barkentine, she would
have stopped out of the Willey's course.
"19. The master of the barkentine was on deck; he had
his vessel under control. If, when the steamer first sighted
the barkentine, the master of the latter had been advised that
the steamer was starboarding her wheel, he could have ported
and avoided the collision. If, at that time, the steamer had
ported her wheel, the barkentine, keeping her course, would
have crossed the steamer's bow in safety. If, at that time,
the master of the barkentine had been advised that the
steamer was reversing, he could have ported and avoided the
collision.
" Conclusions of Law.
"1. The Freda A. Willey was free from fault.
"2. The Martello was in fault for proceeding at an exces,sive rate of speed in a fog, and is solely responsible for the
collision.
"3. There should be a decree for the Freda A. Willey and
against the Martello in each case, with costs of the District
and Circuit Courts."
Subsequently, on September 6, and upon request of counsel
for the Martello, the Circuit Court made the following additional findings of fact:
"16. Captain Jenkins has held a master's certificate since
1856. Pilot Henderson has been a New York and Sandy
Hook pilot for nearly forty-two years.
"30. Article XIII of the International Rules and Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea is as follows: ' Every
ship, whether sailing ship or steamship, shall, in a fog, mist,
or falling snow, go at a moderate speed.'
"31. The moderate speed required by this article is not a
fixed rate of knots per hour, but something materially less
than the vessel's full speed.
"32. The Willey at four o'clock on the morning of the
collision was some twenty miles to the southward of the
Sandy Hook lightship.
"35. The Willey at the time of the collision was carrying
not less than 2191 square yards of canvas.

THE MARTELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

"44. The ordinary course of outward bound European
steamers after leaving Gedney's channel is about E. S. E., and
therefore across the course pursued by the barkentine.
"48. Article XIX of the International Rules and Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea is as follows: ' In taking
any course authorized or required by these regulations, a
steamship under way may indicate that course to any other
ship which she has in sight by the following signals on her
steam whistle, viz.: one short blast to mean I am directing my
course to starboard; two short blasts to mean I am directing
my course to port; three short blasts to mean I am going full
speed astern. The use of these signals is optional, but if they
are used, the course of the ship must be in accordance with
the signal made.'
"51. It was the duty of the barkentine, under the circumstances, and with danger imminent, to use all the means
reasonably within her power to avert the collision.
"56. The crew of the barkentine consists of a captain,
mate, second mate, five men before the mast, and the steward;
nine in all."
Upon the further request of counsel for the Martello, the
following additional finding was made and filed July 30, 1890:
"104. The horn of the Willey on board of her and sounded
at the time of the collision, was not a horn sounded, or to be
sounded by mechanical means, but was a tin fog-horn."
But the court refused to find, as a conclusion of law therefrom, that "the Willey was in fault for not having and using
a horn sounded by mechanical means, as required by article
12 of the international rules for preventing collisions at sea."
Xr.J. Hubley Ashton, (with whom was

2. David Thom-

son on the brief,) for appellants.
Mr.William, TV. Goodrich for appellees.
Mr. JusTicE BiowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
(1) The Circuit and District Courts agreed in holding the

I
OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Martello to have been in fault for too great speed. In this
conclusion we concur.
By the finding of the Circuit Court, that, at the time the
horn of the barkentine was heard upon the steamer, the latter
was proceeding at a speed of from five and a half to six knots
an hour, we are relieved from the necessity of examining the
somewhat conflicting testimony upon the question of the
steamer's speed. While it is possible that a speed of six miles
an hour, even in a dense fog, may not be excessive upon the
open ocean and off the frequented paths of commerce, a different rule applies to a steamer just emerging from the harbor
of the largest port on the Atlantic coast, and in a neighborhood where she is likely to meet vessels approaching the
harbor from at least a dozen points of the compass. Under
such circumstances, and in such a fog that vessels could not be
seen more than a quarter of a mile away, it.is not unreasonable to require that she reduce her speed to the lowest point
consistent with a good steerage way, which the court finds in
this case to be three miles an hour. The Southern Belle,
(Culbertson v. Shaw,) 18 How. 584; The Bay State, (Mo cready
v. Goldsmith,) 18 How. 89.
Further than this, however, the court found (7)that "about
a minute or two after hearing the horn, the officers of the
M artello saw the barkentine, Freda A. Willey, looming in
sight through the fog," and that (13) "as soon as the Willey
loomed in sight of those on the Martello, as indicated in the
seventh finding, the first officer of the steamship called out
'Hard-a-port,' and the lookout reported a vessel on the starboard bow; the captain immediately ordered the helm harda-port and the engines reversed full speed." These findings,
taken together, indicate that the Mfartello took no action to
avoid the collision until after she saw the Willey looming up
in the fog, which was a minute or two after hearing the horn.
Under the circumstances, we think the steamer did not act
with sufficient promptness. By article 12, subdivision (b) of
the "Revised International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea," prescribed by act of Congress of March 3,
1885, c. 354, 23 Stat. 438, 440, "a sailing ship under way

THE MARTELL0.
Opinion of the Court.

shall make with her fog-horn, at intervals of not more than
two minutes, when on the starboard tack one blast, when on
the port tack two blasts in succession, and when with the
wind abaft the beam three blasts in succession." The wind
at this time was E. by N. and blowing a five to six knot
breeze. One blast of the horn, heard upon the steamer's starboard bow, indicated that the sailing vessel was approaching
upon her starboard tack, from a direction which would unavoidably take her across the bow of the steamer, unless the
speed of the latter were sufficient to carry her beyond the
point at which the courses of the two vessels intersected,
before the sailing vessel reached that point. The steamship,
however, had no right to speculate upon this contingency.
Hearing the horn as she did, and being thus apprised of the
bearing and course of the approaching vessel, being, as she
must necessarily have been, in doubt as to her distance from
the steamship, it was the duty of the latter at once to stop,
until, by repeated blasts of the horn, she could assure herself
of the exact bearing, speed, and course of the approaching
vessel. The necessity of instantly stopping, or at least of a
reduction of speed to the lowest point consistent with the
maintenance of steerage way, in the presence of an unknown
danger, is one which the masters of steam vessels are slow to
appreciate; but the courts have had occasion to enforce it so
often, it can, as a matter of law, be no longer considered
doubtful. The sound of a fog-horn upon either bow, if the
blast be such as to indicate that the approaching vessel is
upon a course crossing that of the steamer, is obviously such a
danger. As we had occasion to observe of a somewhat similar collision in The City of New York, 147 U. S. 72, 84:
"Upon hearing the fog-horn of the barque only one point on
her starboard bow, the officer in charge should at once have
checked her speed, and, if the sound indicated that the approaching vessel was near, should have stopped or reversed
until the sound was definitely located, or the vessels came in
sight of each other.

.

.

.

There is no such certainty of

the exact position of a horn blown in a fog as will justify a
steamer in speculating upon the probability of avoiding it by

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

a change of the helm, without taking the additional precaution
of stopping until its location is definitely ascertained. The
Hypodame, 6 Wall. 216; The Sea Gull, 23 Wall. 165, 177 ;
The Kirby Hall, 8 P. D. 71; The Ceto, 6 Asp. Mar. Law Cas.
479; S. C. 14 App. Gas. 670."
Indeed, the American and English courts are in perfect
accord with rgard to the duty of the steamer under such
circumstances, and we are simply applying to the Martello the
law of her own flag as well as ours in holding her to have
beenguilty of negligence. Thus in The .Kirby Hall, 8 P. D.
71, it was held to be the duty of a steamship, hearing the
steam whistle of another steamship in close proximity, in a
dense fog, but unable to ascertain her course and position, to
stop and reverse her engines so as to take all way off of her,
and bring her to a standstill. So, in The John Mclnatyre, 9 P.
D. 135, it was held that while the master of a steamship was
not at once bound the moment he heard a whistle, wherever
it might be, to stop and reverse his engines; yet, if, in a dense
fog, he hears the whistle or fog-horn of another vessel more
than once on either bow and in the vicinity from such a direction as to indicate that the other vessel is nearing him, it is
his duty to at once stop and reverse, so as to bring his vessel
to a standstill. In The Dordogne, 10 P. D. 6, it was said to
be the duty of a steamer, on hearing the first whistle, to
reduce her speed, and as the vessels get nearer, to bring the
ship to as complete a standstill as is possible without putting
her out of command, and when the other vessel has come close
to, even though not in sight, to stop and reverse the engines.
See also The Frankland,L. R. 4 P. 0. 529; The Ceto, 14 App.
Gas. 670; The bor, 11 P. D. 25; The Lancashire, App. Cas.
(1894:) 1.
This case is much like that of The Colorado, 91 U. S. 692,
-a collision in Lake Huron, in a dense fog, between a propeller and a barque, -in which the propeller, though moving
only at the rate of from five to six miles an hour, was held to
have been in fault in not bringing down her speed to a slower
rate, and in giving conflicting orders to the wheel before the
position and course of the barque had been ascertained.

THE 'MARTELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

(2) The Willey is also charged to have been in fault, not
only for excess of speed, as to which we express no opinion,
but for a failure to provide herself with a mechanical fog-horn,
as required by article 12 of the Revised International Regulations, which reads as follows: "A steamship shall be provided
with a steam-whistle or other efficient steam sound signals, so
placed that the sound may not be intercepted by any obstructions, and with an efficient fog-horn, to be sounded by a bellows or other mechanical means, and also with an efficient
bell.

.

.

.

A sailing ship shall be provided with a similar

fog-horn and bell."
The finding of the Circuit Court that the Willey was not
provided with a mechanical fog-horn was made under somewhat peculiar circumstances. The opinion of the court was
delivered, and the usual findings of fact filed on July 31, 1889.
On the 6th of September, upon request of counsel for the
Martello, the court made certain additional findings; but
neither in the findings originally requested by the Martello,
nor in the findings actually made by the court, nor in the
request for additional findings to the number of nearly one
hundred was any allusion made to the failure of the Willey
to provide herself with a mechanical fog-horn; but nine
months after the last findings had been made, and in July,
1890, the court made an additional finding that "the horn of
the Willey on board of her and sounded at the time of the
collision was not a horn sounded or to be sounded by mechanical means, but was a tin fog-horn," refusing, however, to find
as a conclusion of law therefrom that the Willey was in fault.
In view of this lapse of time, and of the fact that the case
had been tried upon the theory that the Willey had carried a
sufficient horn, we think it was within the discretion of the
court to have refused this finding; but as it appears upon this
record as a fact in the case, we are compelled to accord it its
proper weight.
Some question was made with regard to the meaning of the
words, "similar fog-horn," required upon sailing vessels; but,
if steamships must be provided with a horn "sounded by a
bellows or other mechanical, means" and sailing ships with a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"similar fog-horn," it follows necessarily that it must be
sounded in a similar manner. Indeed, as the horn of a steam
vessel is usually sounded by steam, we think it is probable that
in the use of the word "bellows" sailing vessels were contemplated. Such has been the construction given to the
statute, both in this country and in England. The Zove Bird,
6 P. D. 80; The Iyanoke, 40 Fed. Rep. 702; The Catalonia,
43 Fed. Rep. 396; The Bolivia, 1 U. S. App. 26; . C. 49
Fed. Rep. 169.
There can be no doubt that the Willey was guilty of a
statutory fault in the failure to provide herself with the foghorn prescribed by the international regulations, and the
presumption is that this fault contributed to the collision.
This is a presumption which attends every fault connected
with the management of the vessel, and every omission to
comply with a statutory requirement, or with any regulation
deemed essential to good seamanship. In The Pennsylvania,
19 Wall. 125, 136, it was said that "in such a case the burden
rests upon the ship of showing not merely that her fault
might not have been one of the causes, or that it probably
was not, but that it could not have been." In this case a
barque was condemned for ringing a bell as a fog signal while
under way, although in a case arising out of the same collision
the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council held that, inasmuch as it appeared that the fog-horn would not have been
heard a sufficient distance to have enabled the steamer to
avoid the danger, the barque should not be condemned for a
technical failure to comply with the statute. 3 Mar. Law
Cas. (0. S.) 477; S. C. 23 Law Times, 55. In other words,
both courts proceeded upon the same legal principle; but in
the English court the evidence was considered sufficient to
show that the sounding of a bell instead of a fog-horn could
not have contributed to the collision. To the same effect are
Richelieu 2avigation Conpany v. Boston Insurance Company, 136 TU. S. 408, 422 ; Belden v. Chase, 150 U. S. 674, 699 ;
The Fanny M. Carvill, 13 App. Cas. 455 n., in which the
Court of Appeals observed that "if you can show that there
is a defect in the lights, that vessel must be held to blame,

THE MARTELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

unless she can show that the defect which exists in her lights
could not by any possibility have contributed to the collision."
See also The Duke of Buccleuch, 15 P. D. 86; S. C. 1 App.
Cas. (1891) 310.
While no case appears to have arisen in the highest court,
either of this country or of England, where this presumption
was applied to the absence of a mechanical fog-horn, several
cases have come before the lower courts in which the requirement has been held to be obligatory and a non-compliance to
create a presumption of fault. Tie Love Bird, 6 P. D. 80;
The Bolivia, 49 Fed. Rep. 169, 170; The Trave, 55 Fed. Rep.
117; The lyanoke, 40 Fed. Rep. 702; The Catalonia,43 Fed.
Rep. 396; The Energy, 42 Fed. Rep. 301.
Can it be said in this case that the absence of a mechanical
fog-horn could not by any possibility have contributed to the
collision? We think not. Upon the contrary, it seems to us
not improbable that it did. It is apparent that the reason the
regulations prescribed a horn blown by mechanical means is
that a louder and more prolonged blast can be blown by that
method than by the power of the lungs. The evidence is
undisputed that the officers of the Martello heard but one blast
of the Willey's fog-horn before she hove in sight, and that
this (her appearance) was only a minute or two after hearing
the horn. The finding is that "about forty minutes after
discharging the pilot the horn, one blast of a sailing vessel,
was heard on the starboard bow. At that time the captain
and third officer were on the bridge, a competent lookout was
in the cro'nest about 100 feet abaft the stern, [stem,] the first
officer was on the lookout on the forecastle, and the quartermaster was at the wheel."
6. "At that time the steamer was heading E. S. E. ; the
wind was about E. by N., blowing about a five to six knot
breeze," etc.
11. "She (the Willey) was heading north, close-hauled on
the starboard tack, sounding her horn at intervals of one or
two minutes, and making about four knots an hour."
12. "While thus proceeding she thrice heard the steamer
whistle of a steamer, answering promptly each time with a

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

single blast of her horn; at this last signal the Martello
appeared in sight, bearing about four points on the port bow
and a quarter of a mile away."
The gist of this is that while the horn was sounded at
intervals of from one to two minutes, and the steamer was
to the leeward of the barkentine, but one blast was heard,
while three signals of the Martello's whistle were heard upon
the barkentine. Now, if the barkentine had been provided
with a more powerful horn, it appears to us not only possible
but probable that more than one blast would have been heard,
and the steamer thus apprised of the course and distance of
the barque, and of the fact that she was approaching her
upon a course that would carry her across the bows of the
steamer.
While we hold it to have been a fault upon the part of the
steamer not to have stopped when she heard the horn, there
was certainly some excuse for her failure to do so, and the
master might not unreasonably have supposed that he would
hear a second blast before the vessel hove in sight, and thus
be able to gauge more accurately her course and distance.
Had the officer of the Martello, however, failed to stop or
check her speed after hearing two or three blasts of the horn
gradually drawing nearer, his neglect would have been so
much grosser than it actually was, that we cannot presume
he would have been guilty of it.
In this particular The Love Bird, 6 P. D. 80, which was
a case of collision between the barque Pansewitz and the
screw steamship Love Bird, is directly in point. Two blasts
of the fog-horn were admitted to have been heard upon the
steamer. Counsel for the barque argued that, if the steamer
had stopped when she first heard the trumpet, there would
have been no collision, and hence that the absence of a
mechanical fog-horn did not contribute to the disaster. On
the other hand, it was argued for the steamer that, when she
first heard the trumpet of the barque, she was so near to her
that it was impossible to avoid her. Sir Robert Phillimore
held that the testimony showed there were three blasts heard
on board the steamer nearly ahead; that she proceeded on

THE BJARTELLO.
Opinion of the Court.

her course, neither stopping nor reversing her engines, which
it was clearly her duty under the circumstances to have done.
He found, however, that the barque had not sustained the
burden of showing "that by no possibility could the presence
of a fog-horn have prevented the collision, for it might
possibly have given more warning to the other vessel." He,
therefore, condemned the barque, although the collision
occurred within three days after the act requiring a mechanical fog-horn came into operation, and although the barque
had left her port of departure (Dieppe) before the act took
effect. It is true that this case was decided by a single judge,
and does not seem to have been appealed, but the opinion
seems to us to be founded upon sound legal principles.
After these vessels came in sight of each other they were
so far in extremis that it would probably be unjust to impute
fault to either of them. The action of the Martello. in reversing her engines at full speed was obviously a proper one.
Perhaps if, instead of putting her helm hard-a-port she had
put it hard-a-starboard and the barkentine had at the same
time luffed and come into the wind, the vessels might have
escaped each other, or have come together with a glancing
blow which would not have proved disastrous. But we
impute no fault to the barkentine for her non-action in that
particular, as she was entitled to hold her course, at least
until she received a signal from the steamer to luff.
But as we think the barque has failed to sustain the burden
of proving that the want of a mechanical fog-horn could not
have contributed to the collision, the decree of the court
below must be
Reversed, and the ease eremanded for further proceedings in
conformity with this opiniorn.

