OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

more than ten acres in 1867. I don't think I planted more
than ten acres in 1868."
In other words, all that he claims is that he had an implied
license from the State, but such license (if one existed) was
subject to revocation, and was revoked by the notice served
upon him by the plaintiff, to whom the State had ceded all its
rights.
These are the material questions in the case, and in the
decision of them there was no error. Therefore the judgment is
Affi med.
MR.JUSTICE WHrE was not a member of the court when
this case was argued, and took no part in its decision.

SEEBERGER v. CASTRO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 296. Submitted March 19, 1594. -Decided

April 16, 1894.

The purchaser of an imported article in bond, pending an appeal from the
assessment of duties upon it which is subsequently overruled, can, on
paying the duties as assessed, maintain an action in his own name against
the collector to recover an excess in the payment exacted.
Hager v. Swayne, 149 U. S. 241, distinguished.
Tobacco scrap, consisting of "clippings from the ends of cigars and pieces
broken from the tobacco, of which cigars are manufactured in the process of such manufacture," "not being fitfor any use in the condition
in which the same are imported, and their only use being to be manufactured into cigarettes and smoking tobacco," was, under the tariff act of
March 3, 1883, c. 121, subject to a duty of 30 per cent ad valorem as unmanufactured tobacco, and not to a duty of 40 cents per pound as
manufactured tobacco.

THE defendant in error (plaintiff below) sued to recover
duties which, he claimed, had been illegally exacted on certain
importations of tobacco. The case, by stipulation, was submitted without the intervention of a jury. The court found

SEEBERGER v. CASTRO.
Counsel for Parties.

the facts to be as follows: The Rayner & Baxter Cigar
Company imported the tobacco in question, which consisted of
"clippings from the ends of cigars and pieces broken from the
tobacco of which cigars are manufactured in the process of
such manufacture, the said clippings and pieces not being fit
for any use in the condition in which the same are imported,
and their only use being to be manufactured into cigarettes
and smoking tobacco." The collector assessed upon the
tobacco a duty of forty cents per pound, under Rev. Stat. §
2502 as amended by the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat.
488, 491, 503, which took effect on March 3, 1883, including it
within the terms of the fifth paragraph of Schedule F of that
act, which reads as follows: "Tobacco, manufactured, of all
descriptions, and stem tobacco, not specially enumerated or
provided for in this act, forty cents per pound."
The importer seasonably protested, contending that the
tobacco was not dutiable under the above paragraph of Schedule F, but was so under the seventh paragraph of the same,
which reads as follows: "Tobacco, unmanufactured, not
specially enumerated or provided for in this act, thirty per
centum ad valorem."
From an adverse ruling of the collector an appeal was duly
brought to the Secretary of the Treasury. Pending this appeal, the importer sold the tobacco, in bond, to the plaintiff
below, who, upon the affirmance of the collector's ruling by
the Secretary, paid the duties, and in due time brought this
suit to recover.
Upon the facts thus found the defendant asked the court to
rule, first, that the plaintiff, as purchaser pending the decision
of the Secretary, could not maintain the suit; second, that the
defendant was, as a matter of law, entitled to a judgment.
Reserving these questions, which were adversely decided, the
defendant brought the case here.
JIb,. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
VOL. CLM-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTicE WH TE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
That a stranger, suing solely on an assignment of a claim
from those who did not see fit to prosecute it themselves, cannot recover duties averred to have been illegally assessed, is
settled by Hager v. Swayne, 149 U. S. 242. That case, however, has no application to the present one because the facts of
the two are different. Indeed, in Hager v. Swayne, reference
was made to this case as then reported, 40 Fed. Rep. 531, and
we said: "Castro had purchased the merchandise of the importer while it was in bond, and pending an appeal, and after
the decision of the appeal paid the duties assessed in order to
obtain possession of the property, and thereupon brought the
suit,

the purchaser obtained an interest in the thing

itself" - thus plainly distinguishing between the case of an
assignment of a claim, as exemplified in Eager v. Swayne,
and the case of an assignment of the thing, such as is here
involved.
Whether such tobacco as that with which we are here concerned is manufactured, in the sense of the word as used in the
tariff act of 1883, it a question which has given rise to some
contrariety of opinion. Attorney General Brewster, on January 25, 1884, held that it was, reaching his conclusion by a
comparison of the provisions of the tariff act with those of
certain internal revenue laws, holding that the two were in
Jpari rmateria, and hence that the classification of tobacco
scraps as manufactured tobacco in the internal revenue laws
must be taken to indicate the intention of Congress to include
them under the head of manufactured tobacco in the tariff
law. 16 Ops. Attys. Gen. 646. On the other hand, in Cohn
v. Salding, 24 Fed. Rep. 19, decided May 26, 1885, the Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois decided that
scrap tobacco was not manufactured within the meaning of
the tariff act of 1883. And in' a still later case, which arose
under the provisions of the tariff act of 1890, Sheldocn v.
United States, 55 Fed. Rep. 818, it was held by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit that scraps like those

SEEBERGER v. CASTRO.
Opinion of the Court.

now in question were manufactured tobacco within the meaning of that act, the court calling attention to the fact that
these scraps had a commercial value, and were the subjects of
importation in the way of business.
It seems to us, however, that both the meaning of the word
"manufactured" and the analogy of the internal revenue provisions require us to hold that these scraps are not manufactured tobacco. The court below found in this case that the
scraps were "clippings from the ends of cigars and pieces
broken from the tobacco of which cigars are manufactured
in the process of such manufacture; that said clippings and
pieces are not fit for any use in the condition in which the
same are imported, and that their only use is to be manufactured into cigarettes and smoking tobacco." It is thus evident that the clippings are the mere waste resulting from a
process of manufacture, and not in themselves manufactured
articles. In Lawrence v. Allen, 7 How. 785, 791, the process
of manufacturing was defined to be "making an article either
by hand or machinery into a new form, capable of being used
and designed to be used in ordinary life." A like view of
what constitutes an article of manufacture had been previously announced by the Court of King's Bench: "The word
'manufacture' has been generally understood to denote either
a thing made which is useful for its own sake and vendable as
such," etc. 1?exo v. MV]eeler, 2 B. & Ald. 349. In B'olden v.
Olanwy, 58 Barb. 590, the test of whether an article was manufactured is thus defined: "A manufacture is defined as the
process of making anything by art, or of reducing materials into
a form fit for use by the hand or by machinery; and it seems
to imply a proceeding wherein the object or intention of the
process is to produce the article in question. The residuum or
refuse of various kinds of manufactories is more or less valuable for certain purposes, and may be, and often is, the subject
of sale; but it is not expected that the skill and attention of
the manufacturer is to be devoted to the quality of the refuse
material. This is not the object of the process, and its quality
is wholly subordinate and disregarded, when attention to it
would interfere with the most profitable mode or material to

OCTOBER TERAI,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

be used in the process which is the main object of the manufacturer." Tested by either of these definitions, the tobacco in
-question is unmanufactured. To speak of it as "partly manufactured," and deduce a contention therefrom, is simply to
assume the question at issue. It is equally unsound to divide
the finding of fact so as to make it designate two distinct
kinds of tobacco, thus: "First, 'clippings from the ends of
cigars;' and, second, 'pieces broken from the tobacco of
which cigars are manufactured in the process of such manufacture.'"
The words "in process of such manufacture"
qualify the whole sentence.
Resort to the provisions of the internal revenue laws regarding tobacco seems to us to strengthen rather than to militate against our conclusion. Various provisions of these laws
have been brought to our attention: Revised Statutes, § 3244
(ninth) and § 3368; and the act of March 1, 1879, c. 125,
§ 14, 20 Stat. 327, 345, providing a substitute for Rev. Stat.
§ 3362. These are asserted to be in par materia, and to
show that the tobacco in question was manufactured, within
the meaning of the tariff statute, without regard to the general understanding of the word "manufacture."
We think
the position unsound. The internal revenue laws referred to
sought to accomplish two objects: First, the taxation of all
forms of manufactured tobacco, including also the waste or
scrap arising therefrom; and, second, the complete accounting
by the manufacturer for all the product of his factory, including the waste. As waste was necessarily embraced in both
objects, it was included in the provisions of the laws relied on.
A detailed examination of the statutes will accentuate these
views. The first of these provisions is that of section 61 of
the act of July 20, 1868, c. 186, 15 Stat. 125, 153, which
reads as follows: "That upon tobacco and snuff which shall
be manufactured and sold, or removed for consumption or
use, there shall be assessed and collected the following taxes:
S.

.On

all refuse, scraps, and sweepings of tobacco, a tax

of sixteen cents per pound." Here is an obvious distinction
taken between tobacco, etc., "manufactured and sold" on the
one hand, and "refuse, scraps, and sweepings" on the other,

SEEBERGER v. CASTRO.
Opinion of the Court.

albeit the tax is the same on both. Its object, too, is plainly
to taxtobacco of the various kinds named, in connection with
their sale and removal "for consumption and use." The context of the section enforces this view. The tax is upon all
tobacco manufactured, sold, or removed from the factory;
and the provision as to refuse, scraps, etc., necessarily contemplates the regulation of the business of the factory, and
not the grading of the tobacco.
The next section relied upon is section 62 of the same act,
which is as follows: "That . . . all manufactured tobacco shall be put up and prepared by the manufacturer for
sale, or removal for sale or consumption, in packages of the
following description, and in no other manner:

.

.

.

all

smoking tobacco, all fine cut shorts which is passed through
a riddle of thirty-six meshes to the square inch, and all refuse
scraps and sweepings of tobacco, in packages containing two,
four, eight and sixteen ounces each." 15 Stat. 152-3. This
section evidently has the same object as the first. The fact
that it directs the manner in which the scraps and refuse shall
be put up in the factory affords no evidence of a legislative
determination that the scraps themselves are manufactured
articles. Nor does section 59 of the same act justify the interpretation which is sought to be placed upon it. On the
contrary, it distinguishes scraps by fair implication from both
manufactured and partially manufactured tobacco. Its language is:
"Every person whose business it is to manufacture tobacco
or snuff for himself, or who shall employ others to manufacture tobacco or snuff, whether such manufacture shall be
by cutting, pressing, grinding, crushing, or rubbing of any leaf
or raw tobacco, or otherwise preparing raw or leaf tobacco or
manufactured or partially manufactured tobacco, or snuff, or
the putting up for use or consumption of scraps, waste, clippings, stems, or deposits of tobacco, resulting from any process
of handling tobacco, shall be regarded as a manufacturer of
tobacco."
The interpretation of this section, which would hold that
scraps were manufactured tobacco, would render the provision

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

of the section which relates to them absolutely useless. It
would be a construction which would read out of the section
by necessary implication, as unnecessary, the provision as to
the waste or scrap tobacco found therein. Manufactured
tobacco and partially manufactured tobacco had been already
provided for. The waste or clippings must have been considered neither manufactured nor partially manufactured, since
they were specially provided for after the manufactured and
partially manufactured tobacco had already been regulated by
the terms of the section. It follows, therefore, that if, under
the rule of pari m cteria, we interpret the provision of the
tariff act of 1883 along with the provision of the internal
revenue acts, thus quoted, we could not hold the scraps or
waste to be a manufactured article, unless we said that that
which is neither manufactured nor partially manufactured was
yet a manufactured article. We think the context of these
sections makes it clear that their general purpose and object
was to regulate the manufacture and disposition of all classes
of tobacco, and that they conform by a fair construction and
interpretation to the view that the scraps are neither a manufactured nor a partially manufactured article. We are here
dealing with the waste or the scraps not from the internal
revenue point of view, but as an article of commerce, separate
from the manufacturer and the factory.
The judgment below is

4ffrred.

SPALDING v. CASTRO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 297. Submitted March 19,1894. -Decided

April 16,1894.

Seebergerv. Castro, ante, 32, followed.
A ruling by the court below, correct when applied to this case, is sustained
without regard to its correctness as a general proposition.

