OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

tion which the law put upon the circumstances of the transaction as stated in the previous findings, and, as such, open to
our revision. Sun Mfutual Insurance Co. v. Ocean Insurance
Co., 107 U. S. 485 ; United States v. Pugh, 99 T. S. 265 ; The

Britannia, ante, 130; Gilroy v. Price, App. Cas. (1893) 56,
61.
In our judgment these deductions were incorrect, and the
specific conclusions of law did not follow.

The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the cause
remanded with a' direction to enter a decree for libellant&

for the amount found due by the District Court with interest and costs.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER, not having heard the argument, and
MR. JUSTICE WriTE, not being a member of the court when
the hearing was had, took no part in the consideration and
decision of the case.

RUNKLE v. BURNHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 266. Argued March 12, 13, 1894. -Decided April 30, 1894.

A contract for a loan and water works in Havana having been awarded to
R., G., L. and M., a deposit was required as a guarantee. N. was employed by R. to raise the money. He borrowed it from B. R. became
the assignee of the interests of his co-contractors, and then failed to
perform the contract. In order to procure a general release from the
liabilities arising from such failure, he gave a power of attorney to Q.,
who thereupon, in his name and as attorney in fact, entered into an
agreement in writing with B. by which it was, among other things,
agreed that R. should pay to B. an agreed balance of $19,087.36 in three
months from date, with interest at 9 per cent. That sum not being paid
when due, B. sued R. to recover it. Held,
(1) That the power granted by R. to Q. was outstanding when the agreement was executed;
(2) That the agreement made by Q. with B. was authorized by the
power;

IRUNKLE v. BURNHAM.
Statement of the Case.
(3)

That R., having taken an assignment of the respective interests of
his co-contractors, stood in their shoes, and that evidence touching the transaction, admissible against an assigning co-contractor,
was admissible against him.
The rejection of evidence immaterial to the result did not constitute reversible error.
A witness may be asked as to the relations of the parties at the time of the
execution of a written power of attorney, although his answers may
have a bearing upon their obligations arising under a written contract
made under the power.
Findings of fact made by the court below are binding here when there is
any evidence to support them.
A defendant who, after denial of his motion for a nonsuit made at the close
of plaintiff's evidence in chief, offers evidence in his own behalf, thereby
waives his motion and an exception to the denial of it.

THE defendant here, who was plaintiff below, brought an

action of assumpsit against Daniel Runkle to recover the sum
of $19,087.36, with interest at the rate of nine per cent from
the 4th of August, 1884, to the time of entering suit.
After issue joined the case was by stipulation submitted to
the court without the intervention of a jury.
The contract in issue purported to have been "subscribed"
by one Mestre as "attorney in fact of the defendant."
At the close of the plaintiff's case, the defendant moved for
judgment in his favor, which motion was overruled, and this
action of the court was excepted to. Defendant did not thereupon rest, but proceeded to offer evidence on his own behalf.
After both parties had concluded, the defendant requested the
court to find: 1st, that it does not appear that Mestre had any
authority to assume an obligation in the name of the defendant; and, 2d, that the contract of August 4, 1884, does not
place any liability on the defendant. These requests were
refused, and the defendant duly excepted to their refusal.
The court then proceeded to find the facts as follows:
"First. That on the eighteenth day of March, eighteen
hundred and eighty-two, contracts for a loan and water works
were awarded by the city of Havana to David Runkle, the
defendant, Walter H. Gilson, Joseph HI. Lyles, and Maddison
& Co., of London, and on the 27th of the same March, Lino
Martinez deposited the sum of $64,000 in Spanish gold in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

municipal treasury of Havana as a guarantee for the proposition which Messrs. Gilson, Runkle, Lyles, and Maddison &
Co., of London, had presented to the municipality of Havana
for the loan of $5,600,000.
"Second. That Martinez had been employed by Runkle,
who was acting for himself and his co-contractors, to raise the
amount required to be deposited as a guarantee for the fulfilment of a contract, and in pursuance of this employment Martinez had borrowed the sum of $64,000 from the plaintiff Burnham.
"Third. Runkle, Gilson, and Lyles undertook to repay this
sum of $64,000 to Martinez at any time he should ask for the
same, if it should be demanded by the city in consequence of
their not having carried out the contract for the water works,
or for any cause for which the city might retain the deposit,
and as a remuneration and for the payment of interest to
Martinez they assigned to him the amount of $25,000, payable
per cent from the
monthly, at the rate of one and -v
amounts they should receive for the works. This undertaking
fell through in consequence of the final abandonment of the
contract, but the fact remains that it was the understanding
of all the parties that Martinez was to be repaid the sum of
$64,000, with interest, and also to be remunerated for his
services or expenses.
"Fourth. Subsequently to these proceedings Runkle became
the assignee of all the rights and interests of his co-contractors
under their contract with the city of Havana, and thenceforward was solely entitled to all the profits that might accrue
from its performance and liable for the consequences of its
non-performance.
"Fifth. Runkle failed to perform the contract for the water
works, and by reason of his default the sum deposited with the
city of Havana as a guarantee was forfeited, and he became
liable for such damages as were sustained by the city on
account of his failure. He also became responsible to Martinez for the repayment of the guarantee deposited, with
interest, and expenses incurred in effecting the loan from
Burnham, amounting in all to the sum of $83,087.36, as per

RUNKLE v. BURNHAM.
Statement of the Case.

account stated between Burnham and Martinez on the 4th of
August, 1884.
"Sixth. Runkle, being desirous of procuring a full and
general release from all liability on account of his connection
with the contract for the loan and water works, executed in
due form on the 25th of June, 1884, a letter of attorney to
Jos6 M. Mestre, who was in the city of Havana, authorizing
him 'to demand, collect, and receive such sum or sums of
money and property of any kind' belonging to Runkle, ' under
or in connection with the contracts for the loan and water
works, made in consequence of the public bid therefor on the
18th of March, 1882, and which loan and contract were
awarded to me (him) together with Walter H. Gilson and
Maddison & Co., and also Joseph H. Lyles,'
'and to
do all things necessary in the judgment of my said attorney
and to obtain my release from all liability as one of the contractors in' connection with the said loan and water works,
giving and granting unto my said attorney full power and
authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or
could do if personally present,' etc.
"Seventh. By virtue of the authority conferred on him by
the aforesaid power of attorney, Mestre, on the fourth day of
August, 1884, acting for and in the name of Runkle, entered
into a written agreement of stipulation in the Spanish language
with Burnham, of which the following is a translation:
"'This present is to certify, to which I desire to give all the
force of a public instrument, that I, Mr. S. J. BurnhW, having
received from Mr. Lino Martinez the sum of sixty-four thousand dollars, gold, on account of the sum of $83,087.36, which
results in my favor from the account that under this date has
been presented to Mr. Lino Martinez in relation to the drafts
drawn on the 24th of March, 1882, by Mr.. H. J. Overman
upon Mr. E. 0. Maddison, of London, and endorsed to my
order by the said Mr. Lino Martinez, the which were protested
for non-payment and protected in due course by Messrs. Baring

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Brothers and Company, of London, as the representatives of
the Messrs. J. C. Burnham and Company, have agreed in
regard to the balance of $19,087.36 that still remains unpaid
as follows:
"'Recognizing, as I recognize, Mr. Daniel Runkle as the
assignee of Mr. Walter Gilson, who in his turn was the assignee of Mr. E. C. Maddison, for himself and for the firm of
Maddison and Company, I bind myself to place at the disposal
of said M r. iRunkle the shares of the Charnwood Forest Railway Company, of the nominal value of fourteen thousand
pounds sterling, which the aforesaid Messrs. Maddison & Company deposited in my hands and transferred to me as guarantee
-for the reimbursement of the amount of the aforesaid drafts
and the expenses and interest relating thereto so soon as such
balance of $19,087.36 shall be satisfied by the aforesaid Mr.
Runkle, which it is to be done within the period of three
months counting from the date hereof, it being left to his discretion either to do so directly or to direct that if the said
shares deposited there be sold (in accordance with such instructions that for such purpose he may give) such portion as may
be necessary for the reimbursement of such balance of
$19,087.36, which being covered, the remaining shares shall
remain all at the free disposal of Mr. Runkle, as well as any
balance in cash that may arise on the partial sale of such
shares.
"' The sum owing shall carry interest at nine per cent per
annum until its complete payment.
"'Mr. Jos6 M anuel Mestre, as the attorney-in-fact of Mr.
Runkle, subscribes this present stipulation by way of assent
in the n~ne of his principal.
"'That in order that it may have all its due effect this is
done and signed in triplicate of the same tenor, one for each
party, at Havana, the 4th of August, 1884.
"Kfemorandum as to Corrections.
"'NoTA.-At the moment of signing Mr. S. J. Burnham
stated that he assigns and transfers to Mr. Candido Zabarte y
Paris all the rights and rights of action that belong to him

RUNKLE v. BURNHAM.
Statement of the Case.

under the foregoing instrument, subrogating him in his place
and stead by reason of having received from him the aforesaid balance of $19,087.36, but on the understanding that said
Burnham remains always bounden to sell the shares of stock
in question to the order of Nfr. Runkle, as set forth, and to
deliver to the latter the balance of the proceeds of the sale
and the shares remaining. Dated as above.
JOSE MAN'L MESTRE.
"'(Signed)
'L. MARTiNEz.
"'S. J. BURNHAM.
CANDO ZABARTE PARIS.

"'As witnesses:
"E. COScALLUOLA.
ANTONIO PAIS.'

"Eighth. IRunkle had no property or debts belonging to
him in the city of Havana, and the letter of attorney was
executed for the sole purpose of authorizing IMestre to procure his release from any and all liability as a contractor in
connection with the water works, and there is no proof that
Mestre received notice of the revocation of the letter before
he signed the agreement with Burnham.
"Ninth. Martinez exerted himself to obtain from the
authorities of Havana the release of Runkle and the return
of the deposit money in consideration of Runlde entering
into the agreement with Burnham.
"Tenth. The right of action accruing to Burnham under
the agreement was assigned by him to Gandido Zabarte y
Paris, and by the latter to Francisco G. Mediavilla."
From the facts thus found the court then drew the following legal conclusions:
That the agreement of August 4, 1884, was assented to by
Runkle through Mestre, who had full power under the letter
of attorney to bind his principal. The consideration of the
agreement on the part of Runkle was his release from all
liability under his contract with the city of Havana, and the
return of the deposit money, both of which purposes were
accomplished through the instrumentality of Martinez.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Judgment was entered for the plaintiff for $19,087.36 with
interest at the rate of nine per cent from August 4, 1884, to
date of entry thereof.
Defendant excepted to the findings of fact and to the conclusions of law deduced therefrom, and brought the case, by
error, here.
Afr. Hamilton Tfallis and .Ar. William D. Edwards for
plaintiff in error.
.Mr. FPredericP. Coudert, (with whom were .lr. Robert 0.
Babbitt and .Mr. Chkarles Frederio Adams on the brief,) for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
1. By not resting on his motion for a non-suit, and by
thereafter offering his own evidence, the defendant waived
his motion, and the overruling thereof cannot be assigned for
error here. Union PacicRailway v. Daniels,152 U. S. 684,
and authorities there cited.
2. The exceptions taken during the progress of the trial
are numerous. We will content ourselves with examining the
merits of those which have been specifically assigned as error.
The plaintiff offered in evidence an account, growing out
of the purchase and protest of the draft, and kept between
Martinez and Burnham, which was objected to, on the ground
that it was res inter alios.
Runkle, Gilson, Lyles, and Maddison & Co. were parties to
the water works contract. In order to furnish the $64,000,
which was to be deposited with the city of Havana, Martinez
bought a draft drawn by an agent of Maddison & Co. on that
firm in London. This draft, on being endorsed and guaranteed
by Martinez, was discounted by Burnham, who forwarded it
to London for collection. There it was protested for nonpayment. The result was that Burnham held Martinez and
Maddison & Co. on the draft, which was taken su2,pra protest,
by Baring Brothers, at the request of Burnham. Maddison &

RUNKLE v. BURiHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

Co. thereupon deposited with Burnham, as collateral to secure
their obligation on the draft, certain shares of the "Charnwood
Forest Railroad Company." "Inasmuch as IRunkle appears,
both in the contract sued upon and in the power of attorney
upon which the contract is predicated, as the assignee of
MXaddison & Co., and as standing in their place and stead,
we think it clear that the account was not 'es inter alios as
to him. He represented Maddison & Co., and held their
rights, and, therefore, the account was as much admissible
against him as it would have been against the firm.
3. For the purpose of showing that the power of attorney,
under which Mestre acted as the agent of Runkle, had been
revoked, the defendant offered a series of telegrams addressed
to Olcott, the attorney-at-law of IRunle in New York, which
read as follows:
"HvANA, July 23, 1884.
N. Y.:
"To Olcott, 35 Broadway,

"Telegraph if power is coming to-morrow steamer.
"MESRE.
"MARTINEZ."3

"RAVANA, July 18, 1884.
N. Y.:
"To Olcott, 35 Broadway,
"The powers received are insufficient. It is urgent to send
by to-morrow's steamer new Spanish power, in Spanish, from
Runkle, Lyles, Gilson, and Maddison & Co., to Martinez,
Mestre, confirming the power of March 6th and June 26th,
amplifying them specially, to cancel the contract to loan, to
accept return of deposit, giving common council liberty of
action, and to execute a general release; all well explained.
"[ESTRE.

"MARTINEZ."

"HAvAN, July 22, 1884.
"To Olcott, 35 Broadway, N. Y.:
"Send, anyhow, first steamer, power according telegram
eighteenth.
"MESTE.
MARTINEZ."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"To Runkle, Lyles, Gilson, care Olcott, 35 Broadway, N. Y.:
"I urge forward pending powers. *I protest against damage
delay.
dey.MARTINEZ."

These telegrams were rejected on the ground that they had
not been properly proved. Whether their rejection was
warranted is unnecessary to be considered. The telegrams
called for a confirmation of the existing power, and not for its
revocation. If they had been admitted, they could not have
affected the question of the revocation of the power. Their
rejection being immaterial to the result, no reversal for error
in this particular can be had. Cavazos v. Trevino, 6 Wall.
773 ; Railroad Co. v. Pratt, 22 Wall. 123; Home Insurance
Co. v. Baltimore Warehouse Go., 93 U. S. 527; .Mining Co. v.
Taylor, 100 U. S. 37.
4. Martinez was asked whether, pending the negotiations in
Havana for the settlement of the transactions out of which the
present contract grew, he had exacted from Mestre, agent of
the defendant, any agreement as to the debt due to Burnham,
as a part of the final adjustment. This question was objected
to, on the ground that it was an attempt to show the assumption by parol of an obligation, when such obligation, if it
existed, must result from the written contract. We think the
objection was untenable. The question was asked the witness
not for the purpose of proving a liability on the written contract, but in order to show the relations existing between the
parties at the time the authority given by the power of attorney was acted on. The obligation of course must result from
the text of the written contract, or by necessary implication
therefrom. Testimony, however, was admissible to show the
condition of affairs at the time the agent acted, not in order to
vary or change the written cofitract, but to throw light upon
the situation. Le Roy v. Beard, 8 How. 451.
5. The numerous other exceptions to the admissibility of
evidence found in the record are, we think, not well taken.
We have considered them all. The requests for findings made
by the defendant upon the whole case, as we have seen, were

RUNKLE v. BURNHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

as follows: "1st, that it does not appear that Mestre had any
authority to assume an obligation on the part of the defendant; 20, that the contract of August 4, 1884, does not impose
any liability upon the defendant." These requests involved
both questions of law and fact, and were refused, and exceptions were reserved to their refusal. The findings of fact
made by the court below are binding here, if there be any evidence to support them. St. Louis v. Rutz, 138 U. S. 226.
It is contended that there is no evidence to show that the
power of attorney, which is relied on, was an existing power
at the time the contract was signed by Mestre as Runkle's
agent. This position is not supported by the record. True,
there is'evidence tending to show that Mestre, the agent of
Runkle in Havana, requested enlarged powers from Runkle,
and there is also evidence tending to show the arrival at
Havana, on the day on which the contract was made, of an
instrument conferring the enlarged powers which Mestre
deemed desirable to justify him in dealing with the city of
Havana. There is, however, no evidence that the second
power, if received, revoked the power which is in evidence.
As to the letter which Runkle wrote to Mestre, and which, it
is contended, was a revocation of the power, its contents imply
the very reverse. There was certainly no reason why IRunkle
should have said to Mestre that he "would like" a particular
provision as to the Maddison & Co. liability inserted in the
contract, unless the agent had authority to deal with reference
to this matter. Indeed, although Runkle and Olcott, his attorney, were both examined, and although they both referred
to the alleged new power of attorney, their testimony seems
sedulously to avoid any statement that the new power revoked
the power of June 25. If the new power of attorney was
sent, and revoked the one relied on here, Runkle or his attorney could have dispelled all doubt by offering it in evidence,
or by testifying as to its contents. Their silence must necessarily make against them on the question of revocation.
Mansfield, J., in Holdane v. H'arney, 4 Burr. 2484, 2487. The
doctrine that the production of weaker evidence, when stronger
might have been produced, lays the producer open to the susVOL. OL-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

picion that the stronger evidence would have been to his prejudice was expressly adopted in the case of Clifton v. United
S&ates, 4 How. 242.
This leaves only for consideration the question of whether
the power authorized the contract with Burnham and whether
that contract bound Runkle for the debt sued on. It will be
observed that the power of attorney expressly designates
Runkle as the assignee of Lyles and Gilson and the "transferee" of Maddison and Co., and then authorizes the agent
"for me, and in my name, place, and stead, to ask, demand,
collect, and receive such sum or sums of money and property
of all or any kinds to which in any capacity aforesaid I have,
or may have, the right or claim or demand, under or in connection with the contracts for the loan and water works in
the Island of Cuba, *made in consequence of the public bidding
therefor in the city of Havana, in the Island of Cuba, on the
18th day of March, 1882, . . . to compound and coinpromise all such claims as I may have aforesaid,

.

.

.

and

to obtain my release from all liability as one of the contractors
in connection with the said loan and water works." The
contention is that this power, while it authorized the agent to
enforce any demands which Runkle may have had, did not
authorize him to assume an obligation on behalf of Runkle.
The finding below is that, at the time the power was exercised,
it was necessary that the agent, in order to obtain his principal's discharge by the city of Havana, should settle the
Martinez-Burnham liability.
In addition to these findings, the face of the power of
attorney indicates the necessity of the agent's action in order
to carry out the purposes of the power. The power itself
states that Runkle is the assignee or "transferee" of all those
who had been parties with him to the water works contract.
It represents him as the "transferee" of Maddison & Co., and
as entitled to all of Maddison & Co's rights. We have seen
that Maddison & Co. were bound, with Martinez, to Burnham
on the draft which Burnham had discounted and which was
protested, and that the stock of Maddison and Co. was pledged
to secure payment of the draft. A settlement of Runlde's

RUNKLE v. BURNHAM.
Opinion of the Court.

relations, as the assignee of Maddison & Co., necessarily
included an adjustment of the debt of Burnham under the
very terms of the power of attorney. This power was
evidently executed not alone for the purpose of adjusting the
water works contract with the city of Havana, but also with
the object of arranging the debt due to Burnham, back of
which was the stock which had been pledged by Maddison
& Co., and which belonged to Runkle as their assignee.
We now come to the consideration of the contract itself,
which, it is contended, did not justify the conclusion that
Runkle had assumed the indebtedness to Burnham. The
contract recites the drawing of the draft upon Maddison &
Co., the indorsement by Martinez, and the protest. It credits
the receipt from the city of Havana of the $64,000, which had
been deposited on account of the loan and water works contract, and states a balance due on the draft to Burnham. In
stating the balance thus due, it "recognizes" Runkle as the
assignee, binds Burnham to place the Charnwood Forest Railroad stock at the disposal of Runkle upon the payment of the
debt, and binds him also, in the event of the sale of the stock,
and the application of the proceeds thereof, to the debt, to
pay over to Runkle any balance that might remain. It is
insisted that this contract does not make Runkle ultimately
liable for any deficiency, and that, therefore, the contract
imports no debt on his part. This claim necessarily contradicts the finding of the court below, which is that Runkle had
assumed responsibility for the balance, and it also contradicts
the contract itself. The stock was not primarily Runkle's,
but Maddison & Co.'s. Any dealing with Runkle, and by
Runkle, as owner of the stock, and as assignee of Maddison
& Co., imported that IRunkle had succeeded to the claims of
Maddison & Co. and, by fair inference, to all their obligations
with reference to this part of the transaction. Indeed, the
careful manner in which the contract states the drawing of
the draft, its protest, and the transfer by Maddison & Co. to
Runkle, seems to have been intended to emphasize the fact
that Runkle, in acquiring the rights of Maddison & Co., had
put himself in their place and stead. That Runkle was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

general assignee of Maddison & Co., and considered himself
as not only entitled to their rights, but also as the representative of their obligations in connection with the loan and
water works contract, results from the terms of the power of
attorney, in which he authorizes the agent not only to acquire
Maddison & Co.'s rights, but to stipulate for the discharge of
their obligation. In other words, the contract, read in connection with the terms of the power of attorney, leaves no
doubt that Runkle was dealing and treating in the capacity
of a person who was not only entitled to the rights, but was
also subject to the liabilities of all the original parties to the
loan and water works contract. This view is strengthened by
the fact that, although Runkle testified on the trial, the assignment from Maddison & Co. to him was not offered in evidence, nor even referred to. The failure to produce it, or to
testify in reference to it, when its contents were peculiarly
within the knowledge of Runkle, justifies the presumption
that its provisions would have been unfavorable to Runkle's
position.
Judgment ifirmed.

BURKE v. DULANEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IEDAHO.
No. 326. Argued and submitted March 28, 1894. -Decided

April 23, 1894.

In an action by the payee of a negotiable promissory note against the
maker, evidence is admissible to show a parol agreement between the
parties, made at the time of the making of the note, that it should not
become operative as a note until the maker could examine the property.
for which it was to be given, and determine whether he would purchase it.

THIS action was brought by the testator of the appellees,
upon a writing purporting to be the promissory note of the
appellant for forty-three hundred and eight dollars and eighty
cents, dated Salt Lake City, Utah, August 10, 1883, and payable one year after date, for value received, at the bank of
Wells, Fargo & Co. in that city, with interest at the rate of
six per cent per annum from date until paid.

