OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

deniwe that the Live Stock Company paid this tax, or had any
money with which to pay it. The proof was that Haley borrowed of one Aicher the money to pay these taxes, giving him
his own notes for the amount, while Aicher gave to him a
cheque which he endorsed personally and handed to the
county treasurer. The name of the Live Stock Company was
not used in the transaction, and at this time it had opened no
books, had no money, and no account at a bank. In fact, the
Haley Live Stock Company seems to have been a mere alias
for Haley. The fact that Haley may have intended to sell
the cattle as the property of the company and pay his note to
Aicher from the proceeds, does not put the company in the
position of an original payer.
We think the court was in error in submitting to the jury
the question who paid these taxes, both because the pleadings
did not justify it and because there was no proper evidence
that plaintiff paid them. The judgment must, therefore, be
proceedings in
Reversed, and th-e case remanded for furtherp
conformity with this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
CERTIFICATE

FROM

THE

UNITED

STATES

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
1S94.
No.1070. Submitted March 13, 1891.-Decided April 168

On November 12, 1890, in the Indian country, within the boundaries of
Oklahoma Territory, as defined by the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26
Stat. 81, horse stealing was not a crime against the United States,
punishable under the act of February 15, 1888, c. 10, 25 Stat. 33; but as
to the Cherokee outlet, it remained Indian country after the passage of
the Act of May 2, 1890, and such an offence, committed there, continued
to be an offence against the ,United States.
An indictment in the District Court of the United States within and for
Logan County in Oklahoma Territory, and for the Indian country attached
thereto, charging the commission of the offence of horse stealing in
November, 1890, and laying the venue of the offence "at and within that

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the Court.
part of the Territory of Oklahoma attached for judicial purposes to
Logan County," with a description of territory which included part of
Oklahoma and part of the Cherokee Outlet not in Oklahoma, and which
averred the same to be "then and there Indian country, and a place then
and there under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States
of America," will not be held'to be fatally defective when attacked collaterally by writ of habeas corpus.
Under a writ of habeas corpus the inquiry is not addressed to errors, but to
the question whether the proceedings and judgment are nullities; and
unless it appears that the judgment or sentence under which the prisoner
is confined is void, he is not entitled to his discharge.
Where a court has jurisdiction of the person and the offence, the imposition
of a sentence in excess of what the law permits, does not render the
legal or authorized portion of the sentence void, but only leaves such
part of it as may be in excess open to question and attack.
In accordance with this principle the court answers the third question certified in the negative, without expressing an opinion as to what would have
been the proper action of the Circuit Court in dealing with the prisoner's
application.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
3ir.Solicitor General for the United States.
Air. D. K. Watson, Air. A. I. Johnson, and Mr. E. . Irvine
for Pridgeon.
M

.

JUSTIOE

JAOKSoN delivered the opinion of the court.

At the September term, 1890, of the District Court for the
First Judicial District of Logan County, Oklahoma Territory,
and for the Indian country attached thereto for judicial purposes, sitting with the powers of a District Court of the
United States of America, the appellee, Sidney S. Pridgeon,
was regularly indicted for horse stealing by the grand jurors
of the United States of America, within and for Logan County
and that part of the Indian country attached thereto for judicial purposes, after having been first duly sworn, empanelled,
and charged to inquire of offences against the laws of the
United States committed therein. He was thereafter tried
and convicted of the offence with which he was charged, and
the court thereupon, on February 12, 1891, entered judgment
upon the conviction as follows, that "the said Sidney S. PridVOL. Ciii-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

geon, for the said offence by him committed, be imprisoned
in the Ohio state penitentiary at Columbus (and confined at
hard labor) for the term of five years, said term to begin at
12 o'clock m. February 12, 1891, and to pay the costs of this
prosecution, amounting to the sum of two hundred and thirtytwo dollars and fifty-three cents, and to stand committed until
the amount of said costs shall have been fully paid."
In pursuance of this sentence Pridgeon was transported to
and confined in the Ohio state penitentiary, in which the
usual discipline for prisoners confined therein includes "hard
labor."
On July 7, 1893, Pridgeon applied to the United States
Circuit Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, for a writ of hahe" corpus to be discharged from the
custody of the warden of the state penitentiary, alleging in
his petition that he was wrongfully restrained of his liberty,
first, because the court which tried, convicted, and sentenced
him had no jurisdiction in the premises; and, second, that the
sentence imposed was beyond the power and jurisdiction of
the court, and therefore void. Upon the hearing of the petition, the Circuit Court, without passing upon the question of
jurisdiction of the court which imposed the sentence, held
that the prayer of the petitioner should be granted, for the
reason that the sentence should have been for imprisonment
alone, and that the imposition of "hard labor" as a part of
the punishment rendered the whole sentence void, and thereupon the petitioner was discharged. 57 Fed. Rep. 200. From
this decision the United States appealed the case to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
That court, in view of the important questions arising upon the
record, and the doubt which it entertained as to the correct
decision thereof, certified to this court the following questions:
"First. Was horse stealing on November 12, 1890, in the
Indian country, within the boundaries of Oklahoma Territory, as defined by the act of Congress passed May 2, 1890,
a crime against the United States, and punishable under the
act of Congress passed February 15, 1888, denouncing horse
stealing in the Indian Territory?

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the Court.

"Second. (Assuming the first question is answered in the
negative.) Was the indictment against Pridgeon fatally defective on collateral attack by writ of habeas corps in that
it lays the venue of the offence ' at and within that part of
the Territory of Oklahoma attached for judicial purposes to
Logan County,' with a description of territory which includes
part of Oklahoma and part of the Cherokee Outlet not in
Oklahoma, and avers the same to be 'then and there Indian
country, and a place then and there under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States of America ?'
"Third. Are the sentence of Pridgeon and his commitment in accordance therewith void by reason of the fact that
they included as part of his punishment during his imprisonment in the Ohio penitentiary confinement at hard labor? "
Assuming that the first question certified has reference to
such parts of the Indian country as were embraced within the
boundaries of Oklahoma Territory, and formed a part thereof,
as defined and established by the act of May 2, 1890, c. 182,
26 Stat. 81, it admits of little or no doubt that this question
must be answered in the negative. Indeed, the Solicitor General, on behalf of the United States, frankly and properly
concedes that the act of February 15, 1888, c. 10, 25 Stat. 33,
(the first section of which provides "that any person hereafter
convicted in the United States courts having jurisdiction over
the Indian Territory, or parts thereof, of stealing any horse,
mare, gelding, filly, foal, ass, or mule, when said theft is committed in the Indian Territory, shall be punished by a fine of
not more than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not
more than fifteen years, or by both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court,") was superseded by the
act of May 2, 1890, with respect to so much of the Indian
Territory as was included within the boundaries and made a
part of the Oklahoma Territory.
The act of May 2, 1890, which created the Territory of
Oklahoma out of part of the Indian Territory, after defining
the territorial limits of the new Territory, and vesting the executive power thereof in a governor; the legislative power in
the governor, and a legislative assembly; the judicial power in

OCTOBER TERII, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

a Supreme Court, district courts, probate courts, and justices
of the peace, provided, by the eleventh section thereof, that
certain named chapters and provisions of the Compiled Laws
of the State of Nebraska, in force November 1, 1889, including
part three, entitled the criminal code, "in so far as they are
locally applicable, and not in conflict with the laws of the
United States or with this act, are hereby extended to, and
put in force in, the Territory of Oklahoma until after the adjournment of the first session of the legislative assembly of
said Territory."
This provision of the act had the effect of establishing for
the Territory of Oklahoma, until the first meeting and adjournment of its legislature, the criminal code of Nebraska.
Among the criminal laws thus provisionally put in force in
Oklahoma until after the adjournment of the first session of
the legislature were sections 117 and 498 of the Nebraska
criminal code, which provide that the punishment for horse
stealing shall be imprisonment in the penitentiary for not
more than ten years and for not less than one year, and "in
all cases when any person shall be convicted of any offence,
by this code declared criminal and made punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary, the court shall declare in their
sentence for what period of time within the respective periods
prescribed by law such convict shall be imprisoned at hard
labor in the penitentiary."
This criminal code remained in force from May 2, 1890,
until December 24, 1890, when the first territorial legislature
of Oklahoma adjourned. It thus clearly appears that the only
law by which horse stealing within the territorial limits of
Oklahoma, as defined by the act of May' 2, 1890, could be
punished on November 4 and 12, 1890, the dates of the offence
for which Pridgeon was indicted, was the above criminal code
of Nebraska which Congress adopted for the Territory. Larceny being a crime of local nature, it can hardly be supposed
that Congress intended that the provisions of the act of February 15, 1888, prescribing punishment for horse stealing in
the Indian Territory, should remain in force in the Territory
of Oklahoma after the erection of the territorial government,

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the Court.

and the special adoption of the criminal code of Nebraska for the Territory until after the adjournment of its first
legislature; or that the general provision of Rev. Stat. ยง 5356,
relating to larceny "upon the high seas, or in any place under
the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States," should apply
to that Territory.
We are, therefore, clearly of opinion that the act of February 15, 1888, was not in force in the Territory of Oklahoma
on November 4 and 12, 1890, but had been superseded by the
provisions of section 11 of the act of May 2, 1890, adopting
the criminal code of Nebraska as a provisional code for the
Territory, and it follows that the first question certified by the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be answered in the negative.
But, it is suggested on behalf of the United States, that the
provisional and temporary adoption by Congress of the
Nebraska criminal code for the Territory of Oklahoma had
the effect of making larceny or horse stealing an offence
against the United States, punishable on the Federal side of
the courts of the Territory. The Supreme Court of the
Territory has held that the criminal code of Nebraska, established by Congress, was to be treated as if it had been
enacted by the territorial legislature, and was to be dealt with
as if the crimes, thereby declared, were crimes not against the
United States, but against the -Territory. Thus in Ex _parte
Larkhn, 1 Oklahoma, 53, 57, Green, C. J., says: "It was
intended by Congress that the laws of Nebraska should
constitute a TerritorialCode, as distinguished from the laws
of the United States in force in the Territory of Oklahoma.,
and that they should sustain the same relations to the courts
and to the people of the Territory and to the legislative
assembly as a code of laws enacted by the legislative assembly."
If, as suggested by counsel for the government, section 11
of the act of May 2, 1890, could be treated as establishing the
provisional criminal code therein mentioned, as a law of the
United States, and as creating offences against the Federal
government, pending the first session and adjournment of the
Oklahoma legislature, so as to make horse stealing during

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that time a crime, not against the territorial government, but
against the United States, the proceeding on the Federal side
of the court was entirely lawful, the sentence of five years, as
well as the imposition of "hard labor," being authorized by
the Nebraska criminal code as above quoted.
It was certainly competent for Congress to have adopted
the criminal code of Nebraska so as to make horse stealing a
crime against the United States in the Oklahoma Territory,
just as by section 5391, Revised Statutes, it has adopted the
penal code of the States in respect to offences committed
in forts, dock-yards, navy-yards, and other places ceded to
the United States, where the offence is not prohibited, or
the punishment thereof is not specially provided for by any
law of the United States.
But we are of opinion that the Supreme Court of the Territory in Ex parte Larkin has taken the proper view of the
effect of section 11 of the act of May 2, 1890, in holding that
the laws of Nebraska were adopted as a territorial code, and
this being so, a court of the United States did not have jurisdiction of the offence of horse stealing within the territorial
limits of Oklahoma under the act of May 2, 1890, or by virtue
of the Nebraska criminal code, provisionally adopted for the
Territory.
It is contended by the appellee that inasmuch as the act of
February 15, 1888, did not apply to the Territory of Oklahoma,
and inasmuch as section 11 of the act of May 2, 1890, did not
adopt the criminal code of Nebraska as a law of the United
States, so as to make horse stealing in the Territory an offence
against the United States, the District Court for the judicial
district within and for Logan County, Oklahoma Territory,
sitting as a court of the United States, had no jurisdiction
over the offence charged against Pridgeon. This position,
however, is not well taken. The boundaries of Oklahoma
Territory, as defined by the act of May 2, 1890, creating a
temporary government therefor, did not include the Cherokee
Outlet. The first section of that act provides that "whenever
the interest of the Cherokee Indians in the land known as the
Cherokee Outlet shall have been extinguished, and the Presi-

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the Court.

dent shall make proclamation thereof, said outlet shall thereupon and without further legislation become a part of the
Territory of Oldahoma." By the ninth section of the act,
after defining the judicial power, and creating the courts for
the Territory, and defining their jurisdiction, original and
appellate, it was provided that the Territory should be divided
into three judicial districts, and that a District Court should
be held in each county thereof by one of the justices of the
Supreme Court, at such time and place as may be prescribed
by law, and "the territory not embraced in organized counties
shall be attached for judicial purposes to such organized county
or counties as the Supreme Court may determine;

.

.

and

each of the said District Courts shall have and exercise, exclusive of any court heretofore established, the same jurisdiction
in all cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States as is vested in the Circuit and District Courts
of the United States."
In pursuance of the authority conferred upon it, of attaching territory not embraced in organized counties to organized
counties for judicial purposes, the Supreme Court of the Territory, on October 6, 1890, entered an order, of which the following only is material: "It is ordered by the court that all
of that part of the Cherokee Outlet which lies between the
line dividing ranges three (3) and four (4) west of the Indian
meridian, and the line dividing ranges six (6) and seven (7)east
of the Indian meridian, except township twenty (20) of ranges
one (1), two (2), three (3), and four (4) east of the Indian
meridian; and all of the lands occupied by the Kansas, Tonkawa, Ponca, Otoe, and Missouri tribes of Indians; and all of
that part of land occupied by the Osage Indians which lies
west of the line between ranges six (6) and seven (7) east of
the Indian meridian; and -allthat part of the Iowa and Kickapoo and Sac and Fox countries which lies north of the line
which divides townships fourteen (14) and fifteen (15) north of
ranges one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4), five (5), and six (6),
east of the Indian meridian, is hereby attached to county
number one (1), (Logan) for judicial purposes."
A comparison of the foregoing with the act of May 2, 1890,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

shows that of the territory attached to Logan County for
judicial purposes, by the order of the court, part was in Oklahoma, as established by the act creating the Territory, and
part was in the Cherokee Outlet, not embraced within the
boundaries of Oklahoma.
The part of the Cherokee Outlet so attached to Logan County
for judicial purposes being "all that part of Cherokee Outlet
which lies between the line dividing ranges three and four,
west of the Indian meridian, and the line dividing ranges six
and seven, east of the Indian meridian, except townships twenty
of ranges one, two, three, and four, east of the Indian meridian,"
which part is outside of the boundaries of Oklahoma Territory.
It was further provided by section 9 of the act of May 2,
1890, that "in addition to the jurisdiction otherwise conferred
by this act, said District Courts shall have and exercise exclusive original jurisdiction over all offences against the laws of
the United States committed within that portion of the Cherokee Outlet not embraced within the boundaries of said Territory as- herein defined;" and further, that "for all judicial
purposes, as herein defined, such portion of the Cherokee
Outlet not embraced within the boundaries of the Territory
of Oklahoma shall be attached to, and be a part of, one of the
judicial districts of said Territory as may be designated by
the Supreme Court." That section also provided that "all
acts and parts of acts heretofore enacted, conferring jurisdiction upon United States courts held beyond and outside the
limits of the Territory of Oklahoma as herein defined, as to
all causes of action or offences in said Territory, and in that
portion of the Cherokee Outlet hereinbefore referred to, are
hereby repealed, and such jurisdiction is hereby given to the
Supreme and District Courts in said Territory."
By section 10 of the act "all offences committed in said
Territory, if committed within any organized county, shall be
prosecuted and tried within said county, and if committed
within territory not embraced in any organized county, shall
be prosecuted and tried in the county to which such territory
shall be attached for judicial purposes."
It admits of no question that under these provisions the

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the Court.

District Court for the First Judicial District within and for
Logan County, Oklahoma Territory, and for the Indian country attached thereto for judicial purposes, sitting as a District
Court of the United States, had jurisdiction of offences committed against the laws of the United States in the Cherokee
Outlet, which by the statute and the action of the Supreme
Court was attached to Logan County, Oklahoma, for judicial
purposes. It is equally clear in respect to the Cherokee
Outlet so attached to Logan County, that it was at the passage
of the act of May 2, 1890, and continued to be, Indian country,
coming within the provisions of the act of February 15, 1888,
and that the offence of horse stealing committed therein on
November 4 and 12, 1890, was an offence against the United
States. The provision of the ninth section, already referred
to, clearly establishes the correctness of this conclusion, and
the contention on the part of the appellee that the act of
March 1, 1889, c. 333, 25 Stat. 783, establishing a United
States court for the Indian Territory, and extending the jurisdiction of the United States courts over the Indian Territory,
which was divided and annexed for judicial purposes to the
District of Kansas and to the Eastern Judicial District of
Texas, has no application to that portion of the Cherokee
Outlet referred to in the ninth section of the act of May 2,
1890, attached to Logan County for judicial purposes. Neither
is the Cherokee Outlet covered by section 29 of the act of
May 2, 1890, it being expressly declared by section 9 of that
act that "for all judicial purposes as herein defined such portion of the Cherokee Outlet not embraced within the boundaries of the Territory of Oklahoma shall be attached to, and
be a part of, one of the judicial districts of said Territory, as
may be designated by the Supreme Court;" aid further, that
"all acts and parts of acts heretofore enacted, conferring jurisdiction upon United States courts held beyond and outside
the limits of the Territory of Oklahoma as herein defined, as
to all causes of action or offences in said Territory, and in that
part of the Cherokee Outlet hereinbefore referred to, are
hereby repealed, and such jurisdiction is hereby given to the
Supreme and District Courts in said Territory."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

This language clearly shows that that portion of the Cherokee Outlet not embraced within the boundaries of the Territory of Oklahoma, but attached thereto for judicial purposes,
was Indian country within the provisions of the act of February 15, 1888, and the offence of horse stealing committed
therein was within the exclusive jurisdiction of the District
Court of the First Judicial District of Oklahoma Territory,
sitting as a court of the United States.
The courts created for the Territory of Oklahoma are
clearly dual in their nature. They sit as territorial courts
to administer the laws of the Territory and as courts of the
United States to administer the laws of the United States.
Exparte Crow -Dog,109 U. S. 556, 559; Exparte Gow-Shay-ee,
130 U. S. 343, 349.
The indictment charges the offence to have been committed in that part of Oklahoma attached to Logan County
for judicial purposes, and described as follows: "All that
part of the Cherokee Outlet which lies between the line
dividing ranges three and four, west of the Indian meridian,
and the line dividing ranges six and seven, east of the Indian
meridian, except townships twenty of ranges one, two, three,
and four, east of the Indian meridian, and all of the lands
occupied by the Kansas, Tonkawa, Oteo, and Missouri tribes
of Indians, and all that part of the land occupied by the
Osage Indians which lies west of the line between ranges six
afid seven, east of the Indian meridian, and all that part of
the Iowa and Kickapoo and Sac and Fox countries which
lies north of the line which divides townships fourteen and
fifteen north of ranges one, two, three, four, five, and six, east
of the Indian meridian, in said Territory."
This descrilftion .embraces that portion of the Cherokee
Outlet lying west of the Indian meridian, and also a. portion
of the Territory of Oklahoma, being the same as that attached to Logan County for judicial purposes by the order of
the Supreme Court of the Territory on October 6, 1890; so
that in this description we have partly Oklahoma Territory
and partly Indian Territory; but the indictment proceeds to
aver that the offence was committed "at and within that part

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Territory attached for judicial purposes to Logan
County as aforesaid, which said part of said Territory was
then and there I'ndi a country, and a place and district of
country then and there under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States of America."
This averment in the indictment has reference alone to the
Cherokee Outlet, for the Outlet was the only Indian country
not included in Oklahoma Territory, embraced within the
order of the Supreme Court, and was the only place and district of country attached to Logan County for judicial purposes that was under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States. The indictment may, therefore, be fairly construed as charging the offence as having been committed in
that portion of the Cherokee Outlet attached to Logan County
for judicial purposes.
But whether this be so or not, it is very clear that there is
nothing on the face of the indictment to show affirmatively
that the District Court for the First Judicial District, within
and for Logan County, Oklahoma Territory, and for the Indian country attached thereto for judicial purpoges, sitting
with the powers of a District Court of the United States, did
not have jurisdiction of the offence for which Pridgeon was
convicted, so as to render its sentence void on collateral attack. If the indictment does not fairly and sufficiently aver
that the offence in question was committed in the Cherokee
Outlet, it certainly does not show affirmatively upon its face
that it was committed elsewhere, and without the jurisdiction
of the court. It may be, that upon demurrer or writ of error,
the indictment might have been found defective in not alleging with greater certainty the particular locality in which the
offence was committed, within the rule laid down in .McBride
v. The State, 10 Humph. (Tenn.) 615, but it cannot be properly held that the indictment is "so fatally defective on its face
as to be open to collateral attack after trial and conviction, or
that the sentence of the court pronounced thereon was void.
The habeas eorpus proceeding being a collateral attack of a
civil nature, it must clearly and affirmatively appear that the
indictment charged an offence of which the court had no juris-

OCTOBER TERMI:, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

diction, so that its sentence was void. This does not appear
in the present case, and the second question certified must,
therefore, be answered in the negative.
It being established that the court which sentenced Pridgeon had jurisdiction of his person and of the offence under
the act of February 15, 1888, and that the indictment upon
which he was tried and convicted is not void upon its face, so
as to be open to collateral attack, is the sentence imposed,
and the commitment in accordance therewith, void by reason
of the fact that "hard labor" was included as a part of the
sentence during the term of imprisonment in the Ohio penitentiary ?
It admits of no question that the sentence, so far as it imposed imprisonment for the term of five years in the Ohio
penitentiary, was regular and proper, and open to no objection. The question, therefore, narrows itself down to this:
Was the sentence imposing that term of imprisonment rendered void by the addition of "hard labor" during his confinement?
M .-artendick, 93 _U. S. 396, 399, the claim
In Ex _pate
was made on behalf of the petitioner that "where the punishment provided for by the statute is imprisonment alone, a
sentence to confinement at a place where hard labor is imposed as a consequence of the imprisonment is in excess of the
power conferred." Mr. Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the
court, answered this contention by saying: "We have not
been able to arrive at this conclusion. In cases where the
statute makes hard labor a part of the punishment, it is imperative upon the court to include that in its sentence. But
where the statute requires imprisonment alone, the several
provisions which have been just referred to place it within the
power of the court, at its discretion to order execution of the
sentence at a place where labor is exacted as a part of the discipline and treatment of the institution or not, as it pleases.
Thus a wider range of punishment is given, and the courts are
left at liberty to graduate their sentences so as to meet the
ever-varying circumstances of the cases.which come before
them. If the offence is flagrant, the penitentiary, with its

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the Court.

discipline, may be called into requisition; but if slight, a corresponding punishment may be inflicted within the general
range of the law."
In the subsequent case of In 'e -Mills, 135 U. S. 263, 266,
Mr. Justice Harlan said: " An offence which the statute
imperatively requires to be punished by imprisonment 'at
hard labor,' and one that must be punished by 'imprisonment,'
but the sentence to which imprisonment the court may, in
certain cases and in its discretion, require to be executed in
a penitentiary where hard labor is prescribed for convicts,
are each Ipunishable' by imprisonment at hard labor. The
former offence certainly must be thus punished; and as the
latter may, in the discretion of the court, b6 so punished, it
may also, and not unreasonably, be held to be 'punishable'
by imprisonment at hard labor."
Under the rule announced in these cases, while the act of
February 15, 1888, does not specifically authorize the imposition of "hard labor" as a part of the sentence of imprisonment, still it was competent for the court to sentence the
party convicted to imprisonment in a penitentiary where
"hard labor" is a part of the usual discipline; so that the
provision for "bard labor" in the sentence is nothing more
or less than a sentence to simple imprisonment in the Ohio
penitentiary, subject to its rules, regulations, and discipline,
and if the sentence had been imposed in this form it could
not justify the release of the prisoner on habeas eopitus under
the rule above announced. It is doubtful whether upon a
writ of error the prisoner would have been entitled to a
modification of his sentence by striking out the "hard labor"
portion thereof. By section 5539, Rev. Stat., it is provided
that " whenever any criminal, convicted of any offence against
the United States, is imprisoned in the jail or penitentiary of
any State or Territory, such- criminal shall in all respects be
subject to the same discipline and treatment as convicts sentenced by the courts of the State and Territory in which such
jail or penitentiary is situated; and while so confined therein
shall be exclusively under the control of the officers having
charge of the same, under the laws of such State or Territory."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Suppose the five years sentence had embodied the provision of this section -which
it could lawfully have done would it have carried with it, in point of fact, "hard labor"
as a part of the discipline of the Ohio penitentiary? This
being so, it is difficult to see upon what principle it can be
held that the sentence of imprisonment is vitiated and rendered void for expressly including the element or feature of
"hard labor," which would have been otherwise implied in
the sentence of simple imprisonment.
In _n re Coy, 127 U. S. 731, 757, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court, said: "An imprisonment under a judgment
cannot be unlawful, unless that judgment is an absolute nullity;
and it is not a nullity if the court has general jurisdiction of
the subject, although it should be erroneous."
Without undertaking to review the authorities in this and
other courts, we think the principle is established that where
a court has jurisdiction of the person and of the offence, the
imposition of a sentence in excess of what the law permits
does not render the legal or authorized portion of the sentence void, but only leaves such portion of the sentence as
may be in excess open to question and attack. In other
words, the sound rule is that a sentence is legal so far as it is
within the provisions of law and the jurisdiction of the
court over the person and offence, and only void as to the
excess when such excess is separable, and may be dealt with
without disturbing the valid portion of the sentence.
Many well-considered authorities, in England as well as in
this country, hold that where there is jurisdiction of the
person and of the offence, the excess in the sentence of the
court beyond the provisions of law is only voidable in pro-.
ceeding upon a writ of error. Eo parte Lange, 18 Wall.
163; Sennott's Case, 146 Mass. 489, 493; Peop3 "v. .Kelly, 97
N. Y. 212; People v. .iscom b, 60 N. Y: 559; Peole v.
Jacobs, 66 N. Y. 8; Ex parte Sltaw, 7 Ohio St. 81; Ewx parte
]ran -Hagan,25 Ohio St. 426; -n re Graham, 74 Wisconsin,
450; E sner v. Shrigley, 80 Iowa, 30; Ex yarte Max, 44 California, 579.
Under a writ of habeas corpus the inquiry is addressed not

UNITED STATES v. PRIDGEO.
Opinion of the Court.

to errors, but to the question whether the proceedings and
the judgment rendered therein are, for any reason, nullities, and unless it is affirmatively shown that the judgment
or sentence, under which the petitioner is confined, is void,
he is not entitled to his discharge.
It may often occur that the sentence imposed may be valid
in part and void in part, but the void portion of the judgment
or sentence should not necessarily, or generally, vitiate the
valid portion. Rev. Stat. ยง 761, "the court, or justice, or
judge, shall proceed in a summary way to determine the facts
of the case [in habeas corpus] by hearing the testimony and
arguments, and thereupon to dispose of the party as law
and justice require." There is no law or justice in giving to
a prisoner relief under habeas corpus that is equivalent to
an acquittal, when, upon writ of error, he could only have
secured relief from that portion of the sentence which was
void. In the present case the five years term of imprisonment, to which Pridgeon was sentenced, cannot properly be
held void because of the additional imposition of "hard
labor" during his confinement.
Thus in In 'e Swan, 150 U. S. 637, 653, it is stated that,
"even if it was not within the power of the court to require
payment of costs, and its judgment to that extent exceeded
its authority, yet he chnnot be discharged on habeas corpus
until he has performed so much of the judgment, or served
out so much of the sentence as it was within the power of the
court to impose."
We have not deemed it necessary to review or to attempt
to reconcile the authorities on the question, for the reason that
while all concede that neither irregularities nor error, so far
as they were within the jurisdiction of the court, can be inquired into upon a writ of habeas corpus-becausea writ of
habeas corus cannot be made to perform the functions of a
writ of error in relation to proceedings of a court within its
jurisdiction -they differ widely as to what constitutes error,
and what should be regarded as rendering the judgment or
proceedings void.
We are clearly of opinion that the third question certified.
should be answered in the negative.

OCTOBER TERME, 1893.
Syllabus.

In answering this third question we have not considered it
either necessary or proper to express any opinion as to what
would have been the proper action of the Circuit Court in
dealing with the petitioner's application. Whether the writ
of habeas corpus should have been denied, and the petitioner
put to his writ of error, or whether, after the allowance of the
writ of habeascorpus, he should have been committed to the
custody of the warden of the Ohio penitentiary, with directions to carry out and enforce only that portion of the sentence
imposing imprisonment for five years, according to the rules,
regulations, and discipline of the institution. These are
matters which the Circuit Court of Appeals should settle and
dispose of under the appeal of the United States from the
judgment of the Circuit Court discharging the prisoner.
We accordingly direct that each of the three questions certifedfrom the United States Circuit Court of Ajpealsfor
the Sixth Circuit be answered in the negative, and be so
certified to that court.

THE AMARTELLO.
APPEAT

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF T1E UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 293. Argued March 15, 16, 1894.-Decided April 16, 1894.

A steamship, entering or leaving the port of New York in a fog through
which vessels cannot be seen when distant more than a quarter of a
mile, should reduce its speed to the lowest point consistent with good
steerage way.
It is the duty of a steamship, hearing a blast from a fog-horn on its starboard bow, indicating that a vessel is approaching from a direction which
may take it across the steamer's bow, to stop at once until she can assure
herself of the bearing, speed, and course of the approaching vessel.
It is within the discretion of the court below to refuse to find a fact asked
for several months after the disposal of the case on other issues, but if
such finding is made it is binding on this court.
The requirement in article 12 of the International rules and regulations for
preventing collisions at sea, that sailing vessels shall be provided with
an efficient fog-horn, to be sounded by a bellows, or other mechanical

