LUXTO

v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE CO.
Statement of the Case.

Wend. 558. One who holds possession of real estate as
manager for or under another cannot dispute that other's title.
Johnson v. Baytup, 3 Ad. & El. 188; Phelan v. Felky, 25
Wend. 389, 393. The estoppel is like to that which arises in
the case of landlord and tenant, and comes within the scope
of the general rule that an agent in possession cannot deny
the title of his principal.
Neither is it necessary to inquire into the right of the
plaintiff as a foreign corporation to take and hold title to real
estate in Colorado, a question which, in some of its aspects,
was before this court in the case of Fis
v. Palmer, 132
U. S. 282; for if, by so doing, any laws of the State are
violated, the State is the one to challenge the act, (Devlin on
Deeds, § 127, and cases cited in note,) and it does not lie in
the mouth of the agent of the corporation to raise the question.
The judgment is, therefore,
.Affimned.

LUXTON v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE cIRCurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THCE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 1040. Submitted January 5, 1894. -Decided

May 14, 1894.

Congress, under the power to regulate commerce among the States, may
create a corporation to build a bridge across navigable water between
two States, and to take private lands for the purpose, making just compensation.
The act of July 11, 1890, c. 669, to incorporate the North River Bridge Company, and to authorize the construction of a bridge across the Hudson
River between the States of New York and New Jersey, is constitutional.

THIs was a petition by the North River Bridge Company,
incorporated by the act of Congress of July 11, 1890, c. 669,
(the material part qf which is copied in the margin,' ) for the
1 Ax act to incorporate the North River Bridge Company, and to authorize

the construction of a bridge and approaches at New York City across

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

appointment under that act of commissioners to assess damages
for the appropriation and condemnation, for the approaches to
the Hudson River, to regulate commerce in and over such bridge between
the States of New York and New Jersey, and to establish such bridge
a military and post road.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That authorization is hereby
given to Jordan L. Mott, John King McLanahan, James Andrews, Thomas
F. Ryan, Garrett A. Hobart, F. W. Roebling, Charles J. Canda, Edward F.
C. Young, Henry Flad, Gustav Lindenthal, A. G. Dickinson, John H. Miller, William Brookfield, Samuel Rea, William F. Shunk, Philip E. Chapin,
and their associates, as a corporation as hereinafter provided, to locate,
build, maintain, equip and operate a bridge, proper approaches thereto, and
terminals, appurtenances and works connected therewith, across the Hudson River in and between the city of New York, in the State of New York,
and the State of New Jersey, and to lay tracks thereon for the connection
of the railroads on either side of said river, in order to facilitate interstate
commerce in the transportation of persons and property, and for vehicle,
pedestrian, postal, military and other purposes: Provided, that said bridge
shall have not less than six railroad tracks, with a capacity for four additional tracks for future enlargement, and shall be constructed with a
single span over the entire river between the towers, located between the
shore and the established pier head lines in either State, and at an elevation
above the river not less than that of the existing Brooklyn suspension
bridge over the East River, and which elevation may be increased by the
Secretary of War as hereinafter provided, and that no pier or other obstruction to navigation, either of a temporary or permanent character, shall
be constructed in the river between said towers.
SEc. 2. That the construction of said bridge shall be commenced within
three years after the passage of this act, and shall be completed within ten
years after the commencement of construction. But that the Secretary of
War is hereby authorized to extend the time for the commencement of construction for two additional years upon cause shown by the company, and
provided that the Secretary of War shall deem such cause sufficient and
satisfactory; and that, if the company fail to commence the construction
of said bridge within the time so extended, this act shall be null and void.
And the company, at least three months previous to commencing the erection of said bridge, shall submit to the Secretary of War a plan of the
bridge, with a detailed map of the river at the proposed site of the bridge,
and for the distance of one half of a mile above and below the site, with
such other information as the Secretary of War may require for a full and
satisfactory understanding of the subject. And the Secretary of War may,
upon receiving said plans and map and other information, order a hearing
before a board of engineers, appointed by him for taking testimony of persons interested in railroads and navigation, relative to the clear height of

LUXTON v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE CO.
Statement of the Case.

its bridge across the Hudson or North River, between the
States of New York and New Jersey, of land of Sarah Luxton
the superstructure above ordinary high water. Such clear height shall not
be less than that named in section one of this act, and the Secretary of War
may thereupon order such additional clear height as he shall deem necessary for the security of navigation. And he is hereby authorized and directed, upon being satisfied that a bridge built on such plan and at said
locality will conform to the conditions of this act, to notify the said company that he approves the plans therefor; whereupon said company may
proceed to the erection of said bridge. But until the Secretary of War
approve the plan and location of said bridge the erection of the same shall
not be commenced; and should any change be made in the plan of the
bridge during the progress of the work thereon, such change shall likewise
be subject to the approval of the Secretary of War.
SEC. 3. That the bridge, with its approaches and railroad thereover, constructed under the provisions of this act, shall be a lawful structure, and a
military and post road, but no toll charges shall be made for the transmission over the same of the mails of the United States, or for the right of
way for the United States postal telegraph purposes.
SEC. 4. That for the purpose of carrying into effect the objects stated in
this act, the persons named in the first section hereof, and their associates,
are hereby constituted and created a body corporate in law, to be known as
the North River Bridge Company, and by that name, style and title shall
have perpetual succession; may sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded,
complain and defend in all courts of law and equity, of record and otherwise; may make and have a common seal, and shall have and possess all
rights, powers, franchises and privileges incident to or usually possessed
by such companies. It may receive, purchase, and also acquire by lawful
appropriation and condemnation, upon making proper compensation therefor, to be ascertained according to the laws of the State within which the
same is located, real and personal property and rights of property, and may
mortgage, encumber, charge, pledge, grant, lease, sell, assign and convey
the same. And to aid in the construction of said bridge and approaches
thereto, and railroad terminals, appurtenances and works connected therewith, and to carry out the purposes of this act, the said North River Bridge
Company is hereby authorized to issue its bonds, and secure the same by
mortgage on its property and rights of property, of all kinds and descriptions, and its franchise to be a corporation. And generally and specially
for the fully carrying out of the purposes and intentions of this act, the
said North River Bridge Company, and its successors, shall have and
possess all such rights and powers to enter upon lands, and for the purchase,
acquisition, condemnation, appropriation, occupation, possession and use
of real estate and other property, and for the location, construction, operation and maintenance of said bridge with its approaches, terminals and
appurtenances, as are possessed by railroad or bridge companies in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Names of Counsel.

in the city of Hoboken and the county of Hudson in the latter
State. Upon the order of the Circuit Court, appointing commissioners, she sued out a writ of error, which was dismissed
by this court at the last term, because that order was not a
final judgment. 147 U. S. 337. The commissioners afterwards made an award and report, assessing her damages at the
sum of $2000, to the acceptance of which she objected, upon
the ground that the act of Congress was unconstitutional, and
particularly that Congress could not confer the right of eminent domain upon the company. But the court overruled the
objection, and adjudged that the award be approved and confirmed, and remain of record in the office of its clerk; and that,
upon payment or tender of the sum awarded, the company
might enter upon and take possession of the land for the purpose for which it was condemned. She thereupon sued out
this writ of error.
.Mr. Gilbert Collins for plaintiff in error.
-Mr. Joseph .D. Bedle, for defendant in error.
Mr.. Josiah M. Yale, by leave of court, filed a brief on
States of New York and New Jersey, respectively. That all persons, railroad and telegraph companies, respectively, desiring to use said bridge,
shall have and be entitled to equal rights and privileges in the passage over
and the use of the same, and the approaches thereto, for a reasonable
compensation, to be approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission as
hereinafter determined, and to be paid to the North River Bridge Company,
which is hereby duly empowered to collect the same. And sufficient
trackage and terminal facilities shall be provided for all railroads desiring
to use said bridge and appurtenances. In case any litigation arises out of
the construction, use or operation of said bridge or approaches thereto and
railroad thereon, or for the condemnation or the appropriation of property
in connection therewith under this act, the cause so arising shall be heard
and tried before the Circuit Court of the United States for the judicial
district in which the bridge or one of the approaches is located. Applications for condemnation or appropriation of property shall be made in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district in which such property is
situated, upon the petition of said company; and the hearing and trial of all
other proceedings thereon shall conform as nearly as may be to the practice
in the courts of the State, in which sfich district is situated, in the case of
condemnation or appropriation of property for railroads. 26 Stat. 268-270.

LUXTON v. IORTH RIVER BRIDGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

behalf of Orevier, a party in like interdst with the plaintiff
in error.
M . JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The validity of the act of Congress incorporating the North
River Bridge Company rests upon principles of constitutional
law, now established beyond dispute.
The Congress of the United States, being empowered by
the Constitution to regulate commerce among the several
States, and to pass all laws necessary or proper for carrying
into execution any of the powers specifically conferred, may
make use of any appropriate means for this end. As said
by Chief Justice Marshall, "The power of creating a corporation, though appertaining to sovereignty, is not, like the
power of making war, or levying taxes, or of regulating commerce, a great substantive and independent power, which
cannot be implied as incidental to other powers, or used as
a means of executing them. It is never the end for which
other powers are exercised, but a means by which other
objects are accomplished." Congress, therefore, may create
corporations as appropriate means of executing the powers
of government, as, for instance, a bank for the purpose of
carrying on the fiscal operations of the United States, or a
railroad corporation for the purpose of promoting commerce
among the States.
AeCullock v. .aryland, 4 Wheat. 316,
411, 422; Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. '738,
861, 873; Paciie Railroad Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1, 18;
California v. Paci% Railroad, 127 U. S. 1, 39. Congress
has likewise the power, exercised early in this century by
successive acts in the case of the Cumberland or National
Road from the Potomac across the Alleghenies to the Ohio,
to authorize the construction of a public highway connecting
several States. See Indiana v. United States, 148 U. S. 148.
And whenever it becomes necessary, for the accomplishment
of any object within the authority of Congress, to exercise
the right of eminent domain and take private lands, making
VOL. CLM-34

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

just compensation to the owners, Congress may do this, with
or without a concurrent act of the State in which the lands lie.
Fan Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, 154, and cases cited;
Cherokee Nation v. Fansas Railway, 135 U. S. 641, 656.
From these premises, the conclusion appears to be inevitable
that, although Congress may, if it sees fit and as it has often
done, recognize and approve bridges erected by authority of
two States across navigable waters between them, it may,
at its discretion, use its sovereign powers, directly or through
a corporation created for that object, to construct bridges for
the accommodation of interstate commerce by land, as it
undoubtedly may to improve the navigation of rivers for the
convenience of interstate commerce by water. 1 Hare's
Constitutional Law, 248, 249. See acts of July 14, 1862, c.
167; 12 Stat. 569; February 17, 1865, c. 38; 13 Stat. 431;
July 25, 1866, c. 246; 14 Stat. 244; March 3, 1871, c. 121,
§ 5; 16 Stat. 572, 573; June 16,1886, c. 417; 24 Stat. 78.
The judicial opinions cited in support of the opposite view
are not, having regard to the facts of the cases in which they
were uttered, of controlling weight.
Mr. Justice McLean, indeed, in an opinion delivered by him
in the Circuit Court, by which a bill by the United States to
restrain the construction of a bridge across the Mississippi
River was dismissed, no injury to property of the United
States and no substantial obstruction to navigation being
shown, and there having been no legislation by Congress upon
the subject, took occasion to remark that "neither under the
commercial power, nor under the power to establish post
roads, can Congress construct a bridge over a navigable
water; " that "if Congress can construct a bridge over a navigable water, under the power to regulate commerce or to
establish post roads, on the same principle it may make turnpike or railroads throughout the entire country;" and that
"the latter power has generally been considered as exhausted
in the designation of roads on which the mails are to be transported; and the former by the regulation of commerce upon
the high seas and upon our rivers and lakes."
United tates
v. RailroadBridge Co., 6 McLean, 517, 524, 525.

LUXTON v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The same learned justice repeated and enlarged upon that
idea in his dissenting opinion in Penrn&ylvania v. Wheeling
Bridge, 18 How. 421, 442, 443, where, after the Wheeling
Bridge, constructed across the Ohio River under an act of the
State of Virginia, had by a decree of this court, at the suit of
the State of Pennsylvania, been declared to be in its then condition an unlawful obstruction of the navigation of the river,
and in conflict with the acts of Congress regulating such
navigation, and therefore ordered to be elevated or abated,
Congress passed an act, declaring the bridge to be a lawful
structure in its then position and elevation, establishing it as
a post road for the passage of the mails of the United States,
authorizing the corporation to have and maintain the bridge
at that site and elevation, and requiring the captains and
crews of all vessels and boats navigating the river to regulate
the use thereof, and of any pipes or chimneys belonging
thereto, so as not to interfere with the elevation and construction of the bridge. Act of August 31, 1852, c. 111, §§ 6, 7; 10
Stat. 112.
But the majority of this court in that case held that "the
act of Congress afforded full authority to the defendants to
reconstruct the bridge." 18 How. 436. Mr. Justice Nelson,
in delivering its opinion, said: "We do not enter upon the
question, whether or not Congress possess the power, under
the authority of the Constitution to establish post offices and
post roads, to legalize this bridge; for, conceding that no such
powers can be derived from this clause, it must be admitted
that it is, at least, necessarily included in the power conferred
to regulate commerce among the several States. The regulation of commerce includes intercourse and navigation, and, of
course, the power to determine what shall or shall not be
deemed in judgment of law an obstruction to navigation;
and that power, as we have seen, has been exercised consistently with the continuance of the bridge." 18 How. 431.
And Mr. Justice Daniel, in a concurring opinion, sustaining
the validity of the act of Congress, said: "They have regulated this matter upon a scale by them conceived to be just
and impartial, with reference to that commerce which pursues

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the course of the river, and to that which traverses its channel, and is broadly diffused through the country. They have
at the same time, by what they have done, secured to the government, and to the public at large, the essential advantage
of a safe and certain transit over the Ohio." 18 Hlow. 458.
A similar decision was made in The Clinton Bridge, 10 Wall.
454. See also .Miller v. New York, 109 U. S. 385.
In the cases, cited at the bar, of The Passaic Bridges, 3
Wall. appx. 782, decided by Mr. Justice Grier in the Circuit
Court, and of Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713, and
WVright v. .ZVagle, 101 U. S. 791, in this court, the bridge in
question had been erected under authority of a State and was
-wholly within the State, and no question arose, or was considered, as to the power of Congress, in regulating interstate
commerce, to authorize the erection of bridges between two
States.
But in Stockton v. Baltimore & Vew York Railroad, 32
Fed. Rep. 9, Mr. Justice Bradley, sitting in the Circuit Court,
upheld the constitutionality of the act of Congress of June 16,
1886, c. 417, authorizing a corporation of New York and one
of New Jersey to build and maintain a bridge, as therein
directed, across the Staten Island Sound or Arthur Kill. 24
Stat. 78.
The reasons upon which the decision in that case rested
were, in substance, the same as were stated by that eminent
judge in two opinions afterwards delivered by him in behalf
of this court, in which the power of Congress, by its own
legislation, to confer original authority to erect bridges over
navigable waters, whenever Congress considers it necessary to
do so to meet the demands of interstate commerce by land, is
so clearly demonstrated, as to render further discussion of the
subject superfluous.
In Willamette Bridge v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1, in which it was
held that section 2 of the act of February 14, 1859, c. 33, (11
Stat. 383,) for the admission of Oregon into the Union, pr6viding that "all the navigable waters of the said State shall
be common highways, and forever free, as well to the inhabitants of said State as to all other citizens of the United States,"

LUXTON v. NORTH RIVER BRIDGE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

did not prevent the State, in the absence of legislation by
Congress, from authorizing the erection of a bridge over such
a river, Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the whole court,
said: "And although, until Congress acts, the States have the
plenary power supposed, yet, when Congress chooses to act, it
is not concluded by anything that the States, or that individuals by its authority or acquiescence, have done, from assuming entire control of the matter, and abating any erections that
may have been made, and preventing any others from being
made, except in conformity with such regulations as it may
impose. It is for this reason, namely, the ultimate (though
yet unexerted) power of Congress over the whole subjectmatter, that the consent of Congress is so frequently asked in
the erection of bridges over navigable streams. It might
itself give original authority for the erection of such bridges,
when called for by the demands of interstate commerce by
land; but in many, perhaps the majority of cases, its assent
only is asked, and the primary authority is sought at the
hands of the State." 125 U. S.12, 13.
In C alifornia v. Pacific Railroad, 127 U. S. 1, it was
directly adjudged that Congress has authority, in the exercise
of its power to regulate commerce among the several States,
to authorize corporations to construct railroads across the
States, as well as the Territories of the United States; and
Mr. Justice Bradley, again speaking for the court, and referring
to the acts of Congress establishing corporations to build
railroads across the continent, said: "It cannot at the present
day be doubted that Congress, under the power to regulate
commerce among the several States, as well as to provide for
postal accommodations and military exigencies, had authority
to pass these laws. The power to construct, or to authorize
individuals or corporations to construct, national highways
and bridges from State to State, is essential to the complete
control and regulation of interstate commerce. Without
authority in Congress to establish and maintain such highways and bridges, it would be without authority to regulate
one of the most important adjuncts of commerce. This power
in former times was exerted to a very limited extent, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Cumberland or National Road being the most notable instance.
Its exertion was but little called for, as commerce was then
mostly conducted by water, and many of our statesmen
entertained doubts as to the existence of the power to establish
ways of communication by land. But since, in consequence
of the expansion of the country, the multiplication of its
products, and the invention of railroads and locomotion by
steam, land transportation has so vastly increased, a sounder
consideration of the subject has prevailed, and led to the
conclusion ttlat Congress has plenary power over the whole
subject. Of course, the authority of Congress over the Territories of the United States, and its power to grant franchises
exercisible therein, are, and ever have been, undoubted. But
the wider power was very freely exercised, and much to the
general satisfaction, in the creation of the vast system of
railroads connecting the East with the Pacific, traversing
States as well as Territories, and employing the agency of
state as well as Federal corporations." 127 U. S. 39, 40.
The act of Congress now in question declares the construction of the North River Bridge between the States of New
York and New Jersey to be "in order to facilitate interstate
commerce;" and it makes due provision for the condemnation
of lands for the construction and maintenance of the bridge
and its approaches, and for just compensation to the owners,
which has been accordingly awarded to the plaintiff in error.
In the light of the foregoing principles and authorities, the
objection made to the constitutionality of this act cannot be
sustained.
Judgment affirmed.

