OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

.

Statement of the Case.

Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; jMaine v. Grand
Trunk Railway, 142 U. S. 217.
The question here is not the power of the State of Ohio to
lay a charge on interstate commerce, or to prevent a foreign
corporation from engaging in interstate commerce within its
confines, but simply the right of the State to determine upon
what conditions its laws as to the consolidation of corporations
may be availed of.
Considering, as we do, that the payment of the charge was
a condition imposed by the State of Ohio upon the taking of
corporate being or the exercise of corporate franchises, the
right to which depended solely on the will of that State, and
hence that liability for the charge was entirely optional, we
conclude that the exaction constituted no tax upon interstate
commerce, or the right to carry on the same, or the instruments thereof, and that its enforcement involved no attempt
on the part of the State to extend its taxing power beyond its
Jugment afflrmed.
territorial limits.

EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY v. OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 1051.

Argued April 20, 1894. -Decided

May14, 1804.

A state statute, requiring insurance companies to make full and specified
returns to the proper state officers of their business condition, liabilities,
losses, premiums, taxes, dividends, expenses, etc., is an exercise of the
police power of the State, and may be enforced against a company
organized under a special charter from the legislature of the State, which
does not in terms require it to make such return, without thereby depriving it of any of its rights under the Constitution of the United States.

THE Insurance Company, plaintiff in error, was incorporated
on March 22, 1850, by an act of the General Assembly of
Ohio,1 48 Ohio Laws, 498. Sections 3654 and 3655 of the
Revised Statutes of Ohio read as follows:
"

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CrNCINNATI.

"SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Ohio, That
George Crawford, Timothy Griffith, Isaac C. Copelen, William Wood, Henry

EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY v. OHIO.
Statement of the Case.

"SEC. 3654. The president or vice-president and secretary

Lof each insurance company organized under any law of this
Kessler, Henry Brachman, George M. Herincourt, and the subscribers of the
-stock of this association and their successors, shall be and are hereby
-declared to be a body politic and corporate, by the name and style of the
Eagle Insurance Company of Cincinnati, and in that name shall be capable,
in law, to sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, answer and be answered,
,defend and be defended, in all courts of law and equity and elsewhere, with
full authority to acquire, hold, possess, occupy, and enjoy, and the same to
.sell, convey, and dispose of all such real estate as shall be necessary and
convenient for the transaction of its business, or which may be conveyed
in said company for the security or in payment of any debt which may
become due and owing to the same, or in satisfaction of any judgment of a
,court of law, or any order or decree of a court of equity in their favor, and
to make and use a common seal, and the same to alter and renew at pleasure,
and generally to do and perform all things relative to the object of this
association.
" SEC. 2. That the capital stock of this company shall be one hundred
thousand dollars, which may be increased at the pleasure of the majority
of the stockholders to two hundred thousand dollars, divided into shares
of one hundred dollars each; at the time of subscribing there shall be paid
,on each share, twenty-five dollars, and the balance on each share shall be
subject to the call of the directors, and shall be secured by endorsed notes
payable on demand, or other property or stocks, to be approved by the
board of directors. Moreover, if at any time the directors shall deem any
-such security insufficient, it shall be their duty to require additional security on such notes or obligations by them held for the payment of stocks
.as they shall deem best; and any stockholder failing to pay at the time
and in the manner prescribed by the board, any portion of their stock remaining unpaid, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to give such additional
-securities as may be required of them, it shall be the duty of the directors
to sell such delinquent share or shares at auction for cash to the highest
bidder, after having given ten days' public notice of the time and place of
-sale, and the proceeds to be applied in payment of said stares; and,
-moreover, such delinquent stockholder shall be held liable in his individual capacity for any balance remaining unpaid on said shares, and in
case any excess shall arise from such sale after having paid up the delinquency and expenses of such sale, such excess shall be paid to said stockholder.
"SEc. 3. That so soon as four hundred shares are subscribed for and
paid, or secured to be paid, as required in the second section of this act,
the company shall be competent to transact all kinds of business for
which it was established.
" Sc. 4. That the affairs of the company shall be managed by seven
,directors, all of whom shall be stockholders, to be elected as follows: A

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

State shall, annually, on the first day of January, or within
thirty days thereafter, prepare, under oath, and deposit in the
majority of the stockholders composing this association, shall hold a
meeting for the first election of directors within one month after the
amount of four hundred shares of stock shall be subscribed, and on the
first Monday in May in each and every year thereafter, and choose by
ballot seven directors, who shall be stockholders, and each share of stock
shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote, and the directors so chosen
shall serve to the first Monday in May, 1851, and until others are chosen.
At their first meeting after every election, they shall choose by ballot a
president from their own number, and in case of the death or disability of
the president thus chosen, the directors shall fill the vacancy by ballot as
before, and in case of a vacancy in the board of directors, it shall be filled
by the remaining directors from the stockholders for the remainder of the
year, and the board of directors thus constituted, or a majority of them,
when convened at the office of the company, shall be competent to exercise
all the powers vested in the board by this act.
" SEC. 5. That it shall be lawful for said company to insure all kinds of
property against loss or damage by fire or any other cause or risk, in and
out of the State; to make all kinds of insurance on goods, merchandise, or
other property in the course of transportation, whether on land or water,
or any vessel or boats wherever they may be, to lend money upon bottomry
or respondentia to cause themselves to be insured against any loss or risk
they may have incurred in the course of their business, and against any
maritime or other risks, upon the interest which they may have in any
vessel, boat, goods, or merchandise, or other property, by means of any
loan or loans which they may make on mortgage, bottomry, or respondentia,
and generally to do and perform all other matters and things connected
with and proper to promote these objects.
"SEc. 6. It shall be lawful for said company to invest all or any part of
their capital stock, money, funds, or other property, in such a way as the
directors shall deem best for the safety of the capital and interest of the
stockholders, and may transfer, sell, and dispose of any or all interest
which the said company may have acquired by said investment, provided that it shall not be lawful for said corporation to use or employ any
part of their capital stock, money, or other funds in buying or selling
goods, wares, or merchandise, nor in the purchase of real estate, except as
provided in the first section of this act, nor shall the said company trade in
the business of exchange brokerage, nor issue or emit any bills of credit
as a circulating medium of trade or exchange, or in any manner engage in
the business or operation of banking.
"SaC. 7. That the president and directors shall declare such dividends
of the profits of the business of the company as shall not impair nor in
anywise lessen the capital stock of the same. The dividends shall be made
half yearly, on the first Monday in January and July, and shall be paid to

EAGLE INSURANCE COMTANY v. OHIO.
Statement of the Case.

office of the superintendent of insurance, a statement of the
condition of such company on the thirty-first day of ]Decemthe stockholders ten days thereafter, but no dividends shall be paid to any
stockholder whose stock is delinquent.
"SEC. 8. The transfers of stock may be made by any stockholder or his
legal representative, subject to such restrictions as the board of directors
shall from time to time make and establish.
"SEC. 9. That all policies. or contracts of insurance that may be made
or entered into by the said company, may be made either under or without
the seal thereof, and shall be subscribed by the president or by such other
officer as may be designated for that purpose by the board of directors, and
attested by the secretary, and being so subscribed and attested shall be
obligatory upon the said company according to the tenor, intent, and meaning of this act, and of such policies or contracts, and all such policies or
contracts so made, subscribed, attested, and executed, and the loans and
other business of the company may be made, conducted, and carried on
without the presence of the whole of the directors, but by such committee
or otherwise as the board may authorize, and the same shall be binding on
the company.
"SEC. 10. That the individuals named in the first section of this act, or
such committee as they shall appoint, shall receive the subscriptions to the
capital stock of this company, and open books for that purpose at the city
of Cincinnati aforesaid, upon two weeks' notice published in at least two
daily papers of said city, which books shall continue open from day to day
for ten days, unless the whole amount of the capital stock shall sooner be
subscribed, and shall receive all moneys paid at the time of subscribing to
said stock, and hold the same until the election of the first board of
directors, when they shall dispose of it as said board may direct.
"SEC. 11. That the president and directors shall have power and authority to appoint a secretary, and such other officers under them as shall be
necessary for transacting the business of said institution, and may allow
them such salaries as they shall judge reasonable; - to ordain and establish
such by-laws and regulations as shall appear to them necessary for regulating and conducting the concerns of said institution, not being contrary to
or inconsistent with this act, the constitution or laws of this State, and of
the United States; they shall keep full, fair, and correct entries of their
transactions, which shall be at all times open to the inspection of the stockholders.
"SEC. 12. That should it so happen from any cause whatsoever that the
annual election of directors should not take place in any year on the day
hereinbefore mentioned for that purpose, this corporation shall not be for
that reason dissolved, but such election may be lawfully held on such other
convenient day, within six months thereafter, as may for that purpose be
fixed by the president and directors, they causing ten days' notice thereof to
be given in one or more of the newspapers printed in the city of Cincinnati.
VOL. CLUI-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ber, then next preceding, exhibiting the following facts and
items, and in the following form, namely:
".First - The amount of the capital stock of the company,
specifying the amount paid and unpaid.
"Second- The property or assets held by the company,
specifying:
"1. The value of the real estate owned by such company,
where it is situated, and the value of buildings thereon.
"2. The amount of cash on hand and deposited in banks to
the credit of the company, specifying in what banks the same
is deposited.
"3. The amount of cash in the hands of agents and in
course of transmission.
"4. The amount of loans secured by bonds and mortgages,
which are the first lien on real estate, and on which there is
less than one year's interest due.
"5. The amount of loans on which interest has not been
paid within one year.
"6. The amount due the company on which judgments
have been obtained, and the cash value thereof.
"11. The amount of stocks in this State, the United States,
of any city of this State, and of any other stocks owned by
the company, specifying the amount, number of shares, and
the par and market value of each kind of stock.
"8. The amount of stock held as collateral security for
loans, with the amount loaned on, and the par and market
value of each kind of stock.
"9. The amount of unpaid assessments on stock, premium
notes, or contingent liabilities.
"10. The amount of interest due and unpaid, and the
amount of interest accrued, but not due.
"SEC. 13. That the president and directors may call a general meeting
of the stockholders for any purpose relative to the affairs of the company,
giving at least ten days' notice thereof in some newspaper printed In Cincinnati.
"BENJASxN F. LrATEn,
"Speaker of the House of Representatives.
"CnARLEs C. CoNvERS,
"MRcH 22, 1850.
" Speaker of the Senate."

EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY v. OHIO.
Statement of the Case.

"11.

The amount of premium notes or contingent liabilities

on which policies are issued.
"12. The number of policies in force.
"13. The amount insured under all policies in force.
"14. The amount of premiums received thereon. •
"15. The amount and a description of all other assets.
"ThirThe liabilities of the company, specifying:
"1. The amount of losses due and unpaid.
"2. The amount of claims for losses resisted by the company.
"3. The amount of losses incurred during the year, including those claimed and not due, and those reported to the
company upon which no action.has been taken.
"4. The amount of dividends declared and due, and remaining unpaid.
"5. The amount of dividends, either cash or scrip, declared
but not due.
"6. The amount of money borrowed, and the security given
for the payment thereof.
"7. The amount required for re-insurance, being in stock
companies a sum equal to fifty per cent of the whole amount
of premiums on unexpired risks and policies, and in mutual
companies a sum equal to fifty per cent of the cash premiums
received on unexpired risks and policies.
"8. The amount of all other existing claims against the company.
" Pou t - The income of the company during the preceding
year, specifying:
"1. The amount of cash premiums received.
"2. The amount of notes or contingent assets received for
premiums.
"3. The amount of interest money received.
"4. The amount of income received from other sources.
"Fifth - The expenditure during the preceding year, specifying:
"1. The amount of losses paid during the year, stating how
much of the same accrued prior, and how much subsequent to
the date of the preceding statement, and the amount at which
losses were estimated in each preceding statement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

"2. The amount of dividends paid during the year.
"3. The amount of expenses paid during the year, including commissions and fees to agents and officers of the company.
" 4. The amount paid for taxes.
"5. The amount of all payments and expenditures.
"6. Amount of scrip dividend declared.
"SEc. 3655. The statement of any such company, the capital
of which is composed in whole or in part of notes, shall, in
addition to the foregoing, exhibit the amount of notes which
originally formed the capital, and also what proportion of such
notes is still held by the company and considered capital; and
every company organized under any law of this State which
fails to make and deposit such statement, or to reply to any
inquiry of the superintendent with respect to such statement,
shall be subject to a penalty of five hundred dollars, and an
additional five hundred dollars for every month that it continues thereafter to transact any business of insurance, to be
recovered by action in the name of the State, and, on collection,
paid into the state treasury for the benefit of the State Common School fund; and the Attorney General, on the request
of the Superintendent of Insurance, shall.institute such action
against any company so delinquent, in the court of appropriate
jurisdiction in Franklin county, or in the court of appropriate
jurisdiction of the county in which said company is located or
has its principal place of business, as he prefers."
Under these sections proper blanks were furnished to the
company by the State Superintendent of Insurance, and on its
refusal to make the returns required by law, proceedings by
mandamus were begun, against it. The defence was that the
above provisions impaired the obligation of the contract which
grew out of its charter. Upon the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State making the writ peremptory, the case was
brought here by error.

-Mr. Thomas B1. Zelly, (with whom was -Mr.John F Follett
on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.

EAGLE INSURANCE COMPANY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. J. . Richard, Attorney General of the State of
Ohio, filed a brief for defendant in error, but the court declined to hear him.
MR. JUsTicE WHTrrE,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The only question presented is whether or not the charter
of the plaintiff in error exempted it from obligation to comply with the subsequently established police regulations of
the State, contained in sections 3654 and 3655 of the Revised
Statutes of Ohio. This subject was fully considered by this
court in the case of The Chicago Life Insurance Company v.
Needles, 113 U. S. 574. There the company had been chartered by the State of Illinois to carry on a life insurance
business, and the question was whether subsequently enacted
police regulations of that State for the inspection of such
business, and for the liquidation thereof, in the event of
insolvency, could be enforced against a corporation working
under a prior charter without impairing the obligation of the
contract. The statute considered in the Needles case authorized the Auditor, whenever the actual funds of any life insurance company doing business in the State were not of a
net value equal to the net value of its policies, according to
the "combined experience" or "actuaries '" rate of mortality,
with interest at four per cent, to give notice to such company and its agent to discontinue issuing policies in the. State
until such time as its funds should become equal to its liabilities, valuing its policies as aforesaid. The law, in addition,
required every life insurance company incorporated in Illinois
to transmit to the Auditor on or before the 1st day of March
in each year a sworn statement of its business, standing, and
affairs, in the form prescribed and authorized by law. It
also empowered the officer to address inquiries to any company in relation to its "doings and condition," and any other
matter connected with its transactions, which inquiries, it
provided, should be "promptly answered;" and it imposed
upon him the duty of making an examination of the condi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion and affairs of any company, whenever he deemed it expedient to do so, and had reason to suspect the correctness
of any annual statement, or that the company was in an
unsound condition. By another statute it was provided that
if, upon examination of the affairs of any insurance company,
the Auditor should conclude that it was insolvent, or that
its further continuance in business would be hazardous to the
insured or the public, he should apply by petition to the
judge of any Circuit Court for an injunction restraining the
company from proceeding with its business until further
hearing, etc. Upon the case as thus presented the court said:
"The case upon the merits, so far as they involve any
question of which this court may take cognizance, is within a
very narrow compass. The main proposition of the counsel
is that the obligation of the contract which the company had
with the State, in its original and amended charter, will be
impaired, if that company be held subject to the operation of
subsequent statutes regulating the business of life insurance
and authorizing the courts, in certain contingencies, to suspend, restrain, or prohibit insurance companies incorporated
in Illinois from further continuance in business. This position
cannot be sustained consistently with the power which the
State has, and, upon every ground of public policy, must
always have over corporations of her own creation. Nor is it
justified by any reasonable interpretation of the language of
the company's charter. The right of the plaintiff in error to
exist as a corporation, and its authority, in that capacity, to
conduct the particular business for which it was created were
granted, subject to the condition that the privileges and franchises conferred upon it should not be abused, or so employed
as to defeat the ends for which it was established, and that,
when so abused or misemployed, they might be withdrawn
or reclaimed by the State in such way and by such modes of
procedure as were consistent with law. Although no such
condition is expressed in the company's charter, it is necessarily
implied in every grant of corporate existence. Terrett v.
Taylqr, 9 Cranch, 43, 51; Angell & Ames on Corporations,
9th ed. paragraph 774, note.

EAGLE INSURANCE COMPARY v. OHIO.
Opinion of the Court.

"Equally implied, in our judgment, is the condition that
the corporation shall be subject to such reasonable regulations,
in respect to the general conduct of its affairs, as the legislature may from time to time prescribe, which do not materially
interfere with or obstruct the substantial enjoyment of the
privileges the State has granted, and serve only to secure the
ends for which the corporation was created. Sinking Fund
Cases, 99 U. S. 68,70; Commonwealth v. Farmers' & Xechanics
Bank, 21 Pick. 542; Commercial Bank v. .A[ississippi, 4 Sm.
& Marsh. 497, 503. If this condition be not necessarily
implied, then the creation of corporations, with rights and
franchises which do not belong to individual citizens, may
become dangerous to the public welfare through the ignorance,
or misconduct, or fraud of those to whose management their
affairs are entrusted. It would be extraordinary if the legislative department of a government, charged with the duty of
enacting such laws as may promote the health, the morals,
and the prosperity of the people, might not, when unrestrained
by constitutional limitations upon its authority, provide, by
reasonable regulations, against the misuse of special corporate
privileges which it has granted, and which could not, except
by its sanction, express or implied, have been exercised at all."
These views are decisive of the issue here. An attempt is
made to distinguish that case from this upon the ground that,
in the former, the proceedings were for the purpose of compelling the company to cease from business because of insolvency; while, in this case, the question is as to the obligation
of the company to make the statements required by the
statute. This distinction is without foundation. In the
Needles case, the duty was expressly imposed upon the corporation to make statements identical in form and substance
with those which insurance companies are required to make
under the Ohio statute we are here considering. Many additionial police powers were conferred by the Illinois law,
among them being the authority which, as stated above, was
given to the State Auditor to apply for an injunction restraining a company from continuing its business, whenever, by its
statement, it appeared to him to be insolvent. It is, indeed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

true that the relief there invoked was the restraint of the
corporation from doing business on the ground of insolvency.
But that case substantially involved not only the right to
compel the statement, but the greater right to prevent, in
case of insolvency, the continuance of the business of the corporation. Hence, as the greater includes the less, the N~eedles
case necessarily embraces every issue presented here.
Another contention is that compliance with the provisions
in regard to statements of its business would bring the company under the operation of the general law of the State
relating to corporations, and thus place it in the position of
voluntarily subjecting itself to many provisions which would,
if applied, impair the obligations of the charter. In March,
1892, (89 Ohio Laws, 73,) the General Assembly of Ohio
specifically enacted that any fire insurance company which
should comply with the requirements of sections 3654 and
3655, or any other police regulations contained in Chapter XI
of the title relating to corporations, and Chapter VIII, Title 3,
Part 1, of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, relating to the insurance department of the State, "shall not be deemed to have
consented to and shall not be affected by the provisions" of
the title relating to corporations.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio in the case
before us expressly finds that, under the operation of this last
provision, the plaintiff in error would not subject its charter
to any conditions or modifications by malting the statement
which it now refuses to submit.
Judgment afflrmed.

STEWART v. BARNES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
EASTERN

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
0

No. 316.

Submitted March 22, 1894. -Decided

May 14, 1894.

When a person from whom an internal revenue tax has been ilegally exacted accepts from the government, without objection, the payment of
the sum thus illegally exacted, he thereby gives up his right to sue for
interest as incidental damages.

