MASON v. PEWABIC MINING COMPANY.
Statement of the Case.

MASON v. PEWABIC MINING COMPANY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MtOHIGAN.
No. 1041. Argued April 26, 27, 1894.- Decided May 14,1894.

This court has no jurisdiction over an appeal from a judgment of a Circuit
Court denying the application of counsel for a solicitor's allowance out
of a fund realized from a sale made under direction of that court in
execution of a mandate of this court, the appeal being taken after July
1, 1891, and not being taken under the provisions of section 5 of the
Judiciary Act of Mlarch 3, 1891, c. 517.
When a mandate of this court has been misconstrued or disregarded by a
Circuit Court, the proper remedy now is by mandamus; but in this case
the Circuit Court was at liberty to consider the application for an
allowance, and its action in that regard was open to review in the
Circuit Court of Appeals.

ON March 31, 1881, some of the stockholders of the Pewabic
Mining Company, on behalf of themselves and all others who
might desire to join therein, filed their bill in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Michigan against that company, its directors, and a new corporation called the Pewabic Copper Company, formed for the
purpose of acquiring the property of the Mining Company,
seeking to have the property disposed of at public sale, and
an accounting by the directors. The Circuit Court decreed a
sale but denied the accounting. The case was brought to this
court on cross-appeals and the decree affirmed except in respect
of the accounting, as to which the decree was reversed and a
reference directed. .Atasonr v. Pewabic .Mining Co., 133 U. S.
50. The case was decided in this court January 13, 1890, and
the mandate having gone down, the'Circuit Court rendered a
decree May 6, 1890, ordering a reference, report, and sale by
auction. February 3, 1891, the special master filed his report
of sale, which was confirmed. On March 3 one Marcus filed
an intervening petition to set aside the confirmation and open
the sale, which was denied April 27, 1891, and the petition

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

dismissed, whereupon :Marcus appealed to this court, which
affirmed the order. .rarois v. .Mason, 145 U. S. 349.
February 28, 1893, counsel filed a petition for an allowance
out of the amount realized on the sale, to which an answer
was filed and the petition denied, whereupon an appeal was
prosecuted to this court. In the opinion of the Circuit Court,
appearing in the record, it is said:
"The other matter which remains to be disposed of is the
petition for an allowance out of the fund in favor of the
solicitors for the complainants upon the footing of what are
known as costs between solicitors and clients.
"A preliminary question arises in regard to the power of
the court, proceeding as it is under the mandate of the Supreme
Court, which contains the order of that court in regard to
costs. This was to the effect that the complainants should
recover their costs in the Circuit as well as in the Supreme
Court. These, of course, must be understood to be the usual
taxable costs.
"It would seem clear that this court has no authority to
supplement that order by awarding a sum, to be determined
by its discretion, as costs to be taxed as between party and
party, but which are really an indemnity for the expense of
carrying on the suit against a perverse and unreasonable defence, as was done in Perrinv. Lepper, 72 Michigan, 454, and
_Mackintosh v. Flint & P&re Afarquette Railroad, a case reported in 34 Fed. Rep. 582, (though not on this point, which
latter appears from the record,) cited in support of this petition.
"This court is not now proceeding upon its original authority in regard to any matters which were or might have been
dealt with by the Supreme Court on the appeal from the
original decree. The subject of costs was included in the
mandate, which we are now executing. Perkinsv. Fournigyet,
14 How. 328; In re Ifash lagton & Georgetown Railroad, 140
U. S. 91; Gaines v. Rugg, 148 U. S.228, 239.
"There is some analogy, though it is not complete, between
the equity for such costs and costs between solicitor and client,
which are paid out of a fund in court. I have some doubt
whether this court retains the power to award the latter

MASON v. PEWABIC MINING COMPANY.
Argument against the Motion.

species of costs; but I express no opinion upon this question,
as it seems to me clear that this is not a case in which they
could properly be allowed."
A motion, on behalf of the appellees, was made to dismiss
the appeal for want of jurisdiction.
.Mr. Thomas -H. Talbot for the motion.
b'r. Russell C. Ostrander and -Mr.Edward Cahill filed a
brief by leave of court on the part of intervening stockholders.
. .Dickinson, (with whom was M'. Ayfred
.11>. Don
1?assell on the brief,) opposing.
The question presented is, whether the act of :M]arch 3,
1891, creating the Court of Appeals, stands in the way of the
present appeal. This act may be found in 138 U. S. 709.
This involves the effect of the proviso in ยง 6 of that act.
Section 6 declares that in all cases other than those enumerated in section 5 (and this is not enumerated) the appeal shall
be to the new court, "unless otherwise provided by law."
We submit this case falls within the last named proviso,
precisely as the Marcus appeal (taken three months after the
new act) did. :Nobody suggested that that appeal should
have been to the new court; yet every reason put forward
why the present appeal should be to the new court, would
.Marcus v. Jfason, 145
apply to the appeal of M arcus.
U. S. 349.
The Court of Appeals act of March 3, 1891, went into
immediate operation three months before the Marcus appeal.
As to its immediate effect, see In re Claasen, 140 U. S. 200,
204 (near bottom); .31-eLish v. Rof, 141 U. S. 661, 664. So
that if counsel, now moving dismissal, is right, there was no
jurisdiction here in the Marcus appeal.
The present case concerns the distribution of a fund created
under the mandate of the Supreme Court, and (in the view of
the court below) involves the construction of the language of
the mandate of this court as to costs. Surely it is not for the
Court of Appeals to give a construction and final operation to

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Argument against the Motion.

the mandate of the Supreme Court. Perkins v. Fourniquet,
14 How. 328.
Moreover, by the joint resolution of March 3, 1891, the
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is not impaired where an
appeal was taken prior to the act concerning appeals. It may
well be held that the original appeal in the Pewabic case
vested this court with all future jurisdiction in the case, within
the meaning of that resolution.
This case concerns the administration of a fund in court,
and this court having itself created that fund by its mandate
before the Court of Appeals statute was enacted, and being
engaged in the exercise of such administration when that
statute was enacted, it is the "law" that this court will dispose of that fund, and that no other court dan. The framer
of the Court of Appeals act saw that there would be cases
like this, and inserted the proviso above referred to. Analogies of the application of the principle involved may be seen
in French v. Hay, 22 Wall. 250; Hudson v. .Detroit Superior
Court, 42 Michigan, 239; and Dietzsch v. Hidekooper, 103
U. S. 494.
The doctrine laid down in French v. Hay is directly in
point. See also the recent case of City Bank of Fort Worth
v. Hunter, 152 U. S. 512, where the court says, referring to
Perkinsv. Fourniquet,14 How. 328: "That case does not sustain the broad proposition that, without reference to the value
of the matter in dispute, an appeal will lie from a decree simply upon the ground that it is in violation of, or a departure
from, the mandate of this court. While compliance with a
mandate of this court, which leaves nothing to the judgment
or discretion of the court below, and simply requires the execution of our decree, may be enforced by mandamus, without
regard to the value of the matter in dispute, we cannot entertain an appeal if the value of the matter in dispute upon such
appeal is less than $5000. .AYashua & Lowell Railroad v.
Boston & Lowell Railroad%, 5 U. S. App. 97, 100."
The converse of this is, that an appeal does lie when a sufficient amount is involved.
"Provided by law," in section 6 of the Judiciary Act of

MHASON v. PEWABIC MINING CONIPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

1891, does not mean provided by statute law only. It means,
also, provided by the course and practice of the courts. See
In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1, 59.
Miz. CHIEF JusTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
By section 4 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
26 Stat. 826, 827, it was provided that the review, by appeal,
by writ of error, or otherwise, from the existing Circuit
Courts, shall be had only in the Supreme Court of the United
States, or in the Circuit Court of Appeals hereby established,
according to the provisions of this act regulating the same.
Section 5 enumerated the classes of cases in which appeals or
writs of error might be taken from the Circuit Courts direct
to this court; and section 6 provided that the Circuit Courts
of Appeals should exercise appellate jurisdiction to review by
appeal or by writ of error final decisions of the Circuit Courts
"in all cases other than those provided for in the preceding
section of this act, unless otherwise provided by law." By
section 14, "all acts and parts of acts relating to appeals or
writs of error inconsistent with the provisions for review by
appeals or writs of error in the preceding sections 5 and 6 of
this act" were repealed.
In Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 56, it was
held that "the words ' unless otherwise provided by law' were
manifestly inserted out of abundant caution, in order that any
qualification of the jurisdiction by contemporaneous or subsequent acts should not be construed as taking it away except
when expressly so provided. Implied repeals were thereby
intended to be guarded against. To hold that the words
referred to prior laws would defeat the purpose of the act and
be inconsistent with its context and its repealing clause."
By joint resolution of March 3, 1891, it was provided "that
nothing in said act shall be held or construed in anywise to
impair the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court or any Circuit
Court of the United States in any case now pending before
it," and it was added, "or in respect of any case wherein the
writ of error or the appeal shall have been sued out or taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to any of said courts before the first day of July, anno Do7nini eighteen hundred and ninety-one."
The act of March 3, 1891, went into immediate operation.
In re Claasen, 140 U. S. 200. But the jurisdiction of this
-court having been preserved in respect of writs of error or
appeals sued out or taken before July 1, 1891, by the joint
resolution, we had jurisdiction of the appeal of Marcus which
was taken June 12 of that year. This case does not come
within either of the classes of cases specified in section 5, and
the appeal was not prayed until August 20, 1893. It must
therefore be dismissed. Fational xEchange Bank v. Peters,
144 U. S. 570; Wauton v. De Wolf, 142 U. S. 138; Ogden v.
United States, 148 U. S. 390; Aspen Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S.
31 ; Voorhees v. lYoyes -YtanfgCo., 151 U. S. 135 ; 1Nashua &
Lowell Railroad v. Boston & Lowell Railroad,5 U. S. App.
07. It is said, however, that the disposition of the case involved the construction and application of the mandate of this
court as to costs. If it could be contended that our mandate
had been misconstrued or disregarded, this would not give
complainants the right of appeal after July 1, 1891, but the
remedy would be by mandamus. City Bank v. Hunter, 152
U. S. 512. Lest, however, appellants might unnecessarily seek
a review of the matter in that form of procedure, we deem it
-proper to sa.y that the Circuit Court was right in the view
taken of the mandate. The remedy of appellants lay in an
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
In Texas & Pacifto Railwayj v. Anderson, 149 U. S. 237,
the action of the Circuit Court conformed to the mandate, and
there were no proceedings subsequent thereto not settled by
the terms of the mandate itself, and we therefore held, upon
the authorities cited and for the reasons given, that, on the
facts appearing in that record, the Circuit Court of Appeals
could not review by writ of error the judgment of the Circuit
Court. But in this case the Circuit Court was at liberty to
consider, as it did, the application for an allowance out of the
fund on the footing of costs between solicitors and clients, and
its action in that regard was open to review in the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
Appeal dismigsed.

