BAER v. MORA.I

BROTHERS COMPANY.

Opinion of the Court.

BAER v. MORAN BROTHERS COMPA-NY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE

STATE OF WASHINGTON.

No. 633. Argued April 18, 19, 1894. - Decided April 20, 1894.

This court cannot take judicial notice of the nature and extent of tide
lands or mud fiats.
Land alternately covered and uncovered by the tide is strictly within the
description of tide lands, and is covered by the settled rule in respect to
such lands.
11ann v. Tacoma Land Company, ante, 273, followed.

Ti case is stated in the opinion. This case was argued
with -Mann v. Tacoma -LandCompany, ante, 273, where will
be found the argument of Mr'. XAitchell for the plaintiff in
error.
3/>. John H. Mitchell, (with whom were Ar.Beridh B iown,
J '., and -M..2.L. Baer on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
.Mr/. W. C. Jones, Attorney General of the State of Washington, filed a brief on behalf of the State, intervenor.
.21/>. Fg-edei'c D. Mcffenney for Dearborn, intervenor.
31r. John P. Fay filed a brief for same.
MR. JusTIOE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on error to the Supreme Court of
Washington. The questions are mainly similar to those in
the case of Mann v. Tacoma Land Company, just decided.
The plaintiff described the land in his complaint as "at the
time of its selection by said plaintiff unoccupied and unappropriated public land of the United States not mineral, in this,
that the said tract of land was situated in the Territory of
Washington, was a portion of the tide flats, covered and uncovered by the ebb and flow of the tide, was uncovered at

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ordinary low tide and was covered with water at ordinary
high tide, and had never been set apart by the United States
for any particular use." This shows that the land at the time
of its entry was, strictly speaking, tide lands, and, with this as
the sole description, there would be nothing to distinguish the
case from the one just decided. There is, however, this further description: "Beginning at a point 688 feet south and
660 feet west of the east one-fourth post of see. 6, t'p 24 N., R.
4 E., W. M., thence west 150 feet, thence south 210 feet, thence
east 150 feet, thence north 210 feet to place of beginning,
being the premises covered by Moran Brothers Company's
foundry and machine shops."
Upon this plaintiff contends that the premises are not to be
taken as a part of the shore or tide lands bordering on navigable water, inasmuch as they are shown to be devoted to
manufacturing uses; that this court will take judicial knowledge of what are known as "mud flats," lying on and adjacent to the waters of Puget Sound, and that the land in
dispute is -a part of a large tract of over 3000 acres of such
"mud flats," extending for a distance of from two and onehalf miles in length to three miles in width, on the outskirts
of a bay on Puget Sound, and near the city of Seattle, as
shown by the official maps of the United States Coast and
Geodetic Survey. But the averment of the complaint is that
the land was unoccupied at the time of its selection by the
plaintiff, and its condition as a part of the shore or tide lands
is not changed - by the magnitude of the surrounding tract
which, covered and uncovered by the flow and ebb of the tide,
exists between the upland and navigable waters, or the use to
which it may subsequently be put.
We do not understand that we can take judicial notice of
the nature -and extent of the tide lands or "mud flats" in the
vicinity of this particular tract. Even if we could, or if the
area thereof was shown to be as great as is stated by counsel
in the brief, it would not change the fact that the land thus
alternately covered and uncovered and between the dry upland and the navigable water is land which may be used in
facilitating approach to the navigable waters from the upland,

BRENNAN v. TITUSVILLE.
Statement of the Case.

and is strictly within the description of "tide lands," and covered by the rule in respect to such lands.
We see nothing to distinguish this case from the one just
decided, and, therefore, the judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Washington is

BRENNAN v. TITUSVILLE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 902. Submitted January 5,1894. '-Decided April 30,1894.

An ordinance requiring agents soliciting orders on behalf of manufacturers
of goods to tatke out a license and pay a tax therefor, made by a municipal corporation under authority conferred by a statute of the State,
granting to such corporations power to levy and collect license taxes on
hawkers, peddlers and merchants of all kinds, is an exercise, not of the
police power, but of the taxing power; and when it is enforced against
an agent, sent by a manufacturer of goods in another State to solicit
orders for the products of his manufactory, it imposes a tax upon interstate commerce, in violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States.
This court is not bound by the decision of the highest court of the State in
which such a tax is authorized and imposed, that its authorization and
imposition are an exercise of the police power, and not of the taxing
power.

ON May 12, 1890, plaintiff in error was convicted in the
court of the city recorder of the city of Titusville, Pennsylvania, of a violation of an ordinance, entitled "An ordinance
to provide for the levy and collection for general revenue
purposes of annual license taxes in the city of Titusville," and
sentenced to pay a fine of $25 and costs. From that sentence
he appealed to the Court of Common Pleas of Crawford
County. In that court the case was tried upon the following
agreed statement of facts:
"1. J. A. Shephard is a manufacturer of picture frames
and maker of portraits, residing in Chicago, in the State of
Illinois, of which State he is a citizen and in which city he
has his manufactory and place of business.
VOL. cLIII-19

