OCTOBER TERTIT, 1893.
Syllabus.

recovery of real property shall not apply to minors so far as
to prevent them from having at least one year after attaining
their majority within which to commence such actions."
There is no substantial difference between "at least one year
after attaining majority," and "within a year or so," and even
if the remark of the learned judge be regarded as an instruction, it would seem, by analogy to the statute of limitations, to have been well founded.
The record discloses several other exceptions, but they do
not seem to be relied on in the brief of the plaintiff in error.
It is said that the charge contained inconsistencies and must
have confused the jury. Such a statement is not entirely
without foundation, but we think that upon the whole the
case was fairly submitted. It is obvious that the case turned
upon the question as to the age of George Washington at the
time of the allotment and at the time of making the conveyance by him to Houston Nuckolls, under whom the plaintiff
claims, and that question is treated in the briefs of both parties as the controlling one in issue.
With the list furnished by the department for the use of
the agent out of the case, the weight of the evidence as to the
minority of the half-breed at the time of his conveyance to
Nuckolls was plainly with the defendants, and warranted the
verdict of the jury in their behilf.
The judgment of the court below is
Afflrmed.

MORGAN v. DANIELS.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

THE

UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRIOT OF MAsSAcHUsETTS.

No. 313. Argued March 21, 22, 1894.-Decided April 23, 1894.
When a question between contending parties, as to priority of invention, is
decided in the Patent Office, the decision there made must be accepted
as controlling, upon that question of fact, in any subsequent suit between
the same parties, unless the contrary is established by testimony which,
in character and amount, carries thorough conviction.

MORGAN v. DANIELS.
Statement of the Case.

ON October 30, 1889, the appellee, Fred HI. Daniels, commenced suit against the defendant in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts. In his bill,
he alleged that he was the original, sole, and first inventor of
an improvement in machines for coiling wire or wire rods;
that on June 26, 1886, he filed in the United States Patent
Office an application in due form for a patent; that on September 4, 1886, the Commissioner of Patents declared an
interference between his application, and one filed by the
defendant on June 24, 1886; that thereafter, testimony was
taken on such interference, and a decision rendered on March
22. 1889, adversely to his claim of a priority in invention;
that a rehearing was had, which rehearing resulted, on October 28, in affirming the original decision. The bill further
averred that the defendant was not, as decided by the Commissioner of Patents, the first inventor or discoverer, and
prayed for a decree that he, plaintiff, be entitled to receive a
patent for his invention, as specified in his claims, and that
defendant be enjoined from taking any steps to use or dispose
of letters patent for said invention, or any part thereof.
This suit was brought under the authority of section 4915,
Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
"Whenever a patent on application is refused, either by the
Commissioner of Patents or by the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia upon appeal from the Commissioner,
the applicant may have remedy by bill in equity; and the
court having cognizance thereof, on notice to adverse parties
and other due proceedings had, may adjudge that such applicant is entitled, according to law, to receive a patent for his
invention, as specified in his claim, or for any part thereof, as
the facts in the case may appear. And such adjudication, if
it be in favor of the right of the applicant, shall authorize the
Commissioner to issue such patent on the applicant filing in
the Patent Office a copy of the adjudication, and otherwise
complying with the requirements of law. In all cases, where
there is no opposing party, a copy of the bill shall be served
on the Commissioner; and all the expenses of the proceeding
shall be paid by the applicant, whether the final decision is in
his favor or not."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

To this bill, on January 10, 1890, the defendant filed an
answer, denying that plaintiff was the inventor, as alleged.
The case was submitted to the Circuit Court upon the testimony used in the interference proceedings, and upon such
testimony a decree was entered, finding that plaintiff was the
original inventor, and entitled to receive a patent for the
invention. From such decree, the defendant brings this
appeal.
-Yr. George S. Boutwell and Mr. Philip ._fauro, (with
whom was .Mr.Anthony Pollok on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. J. E. Maynadier for appellee.
Mr. JusTice. BRFwEER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

It is worthy of notice that hitherto in the progress of this
litigation upon the same testimony different persons have
reached different conclusions. Thus, in the opinion filed June
5, 1888, by the examiner of interferences and assistant examiner, it was found that the defendant was the original
inventor. On an appeal from that decision the examiners-inchief (two members being present) came to a different conclusion, and awarded priority to the plaintiff. On a further
appeal the Commissioner of Patents on March 22, 1889,
reversed the judgment of the examiners-in-chief, and sustained
that of the original examiners. A motion for rehearing was
brought before a succeeding Commissioner and overruled.
When this case was submitted, without any additional testimony, to the Circuit Court the conclusion finally reached
in the Patent Office was dissented from, and it was found that
the plaintiff was the original inventor. An examination of
the opinions filed by these different officers indicates that by
each of them the matter was carefully considered. Evidently,
therefore, the question as to which was the prior inventor is
not free from doubt. What, then, is the rule which should
control the court in the determination of this case? It is

MORGAN v. DANIELS.
Opinion of the Court.

insisted by counsel for the appellant that the decision of the
Patent Office should stand unless the testimony shows beyond
any reasonable doubt that the plaintiff was the first inventor,
and, in support of their contention, they cite the cases of
Coffln v. Ogden, 18 Wall. 120, 124, and Cantrell v. Walliek,
117 U. S. 689, 695. In the first of these cases, which was a,
suit for infringement, the defence was a prior invention, and
in respect to this defence the court observed: "The invention
or discovery relied upon as a defence must have been complete,
and capable of producing the result sought to be accomplished;
and this must be shown by the defendant. The burden of
proof rests upon him, and every reasonable doubt should be
resolved against him." In the other case the same defence in
a suit for infringement was set up, and there the court thus
stated the rule: "The burden of proof is upon the defendants
to establish this defence. For the grant of letters patent is
.pirnafaieevidence that the patentee is the first inventor of
the device described in the letters patent and of its novelty.
Smith v. Goodyear' Dental Vulcanite Co., 93 U. S. 486;
Lehnbeuter v. llolthaus, 105 U. S. 94. Not only is the burden
of proof to make good this defence upon the party setting it
up, but it has been held that 'every reasonable doubt should
be resolved against him.'
These two cases are closely in point. The plaintiff in this
case, like the defendant in those cases, is challenging the
priority awarded by the Patent Office, and should, we think,
be held to as strict proof. In the opinion of the court below
the rule is stated in these words: "The complainant, on the
issue here tendered, assumes the burden of proof, and must,
I think, as the evidence stands, maintain by a clear and undoubted preponderance of proof that he is the sole author of
that drawing." 42 Fed. Rep. 451. This language is not quite
so strong as that just quoted. The case as presented to, the
Circuit Court was not that of a mere appeal from a decision
of the Patent Office, nor subject to the rule which controls a
chancellor in examining a report of a master, or an appellate
court in reviewing findings of fact made by the trial court.
There is always a presumption in favor of that which has

OCTOBER TERIU, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

once been decided, and that presumption is often relied upon
to justify an appellate court in sustaining the decision below.
Thus, in Crawford v. Y7 eal, 144: U. S. 585, 596, it was said:
"The cause was referred to a master to take testimony therein,
' and to report to this court his findings of fact and his conclusions of law thereon.' This he did, and the court, after a
review of the evidence, concurred in his findings and conclusions. Clearly, then, they are to be taken as presumptively correct, and unless some obvious error has intervened
in the application of the law, or some serious or important
mistake has been made in the consideration of the evidence, the decree should be permitted to stand." See also
Camden v. Stuart, 144 U. S. 104, and Ffurrer v. Ferris, 145
U. S. 132.
But this is something more than a mere appeal. It is an
application to the court to set aside the action of one of the
executive departments of the government. The one charged
with the administration of the patent system had finished its
investigations and made its determination with respect to the
question of priority of invention. That determination gave
to the defendant the exclusive rights of a patentee. A new
proceeding is instituted in the courts- a proceeding to set
aside the conclusions reached by the administrative department, and to give to the plaintiff the rights there awarded to
the defendant. It is something in the nature of a suit to set
aside a judgment, and as such is not to be sustained by a mere
preponderance of evidence. Butler v. Shaw, 21 Fed. Rep. 321,
327. It is a controversy between two individuals over a question of fact which has once been settled by a special tribunal,
entrusted with full power in the premises. As such it might
be well argued, were it not for the terms of this statute, that
the decision of the Patent Office was a finality upon every
matter of fact. In Johnson v. Towzsley, 13 Wall. 72, 86, a
case involving a contest between two claimants for land
patented by the United States to one of them, it was said:
"It is fully conceded that when those officers (the local land
officers) decide controverted questions of fact, in the absence
of fraud, or imposition, or mistake, their decision on those

MORGAN v. DANIELS.
Opinion of the Court.

questions is final, except as they may be reversed on appeal
in that department."
Upon principle and authority, therefore, it must be laid
down as a rule that where the question decided in the Patent
Office is one between contesting parties as to priority of invention, the decision there made must be accepted as controlling upon that question of fact in any subsequent suit between
the same parties, unless the contrary is established by testimony
which in character and amount carries thorough conviction.
Tested by that rule the solution of this controversy is not
difficult. Indeed, the variety of opinion expressed by the
different officers who have examined this testimony is persuasive that the question of priority is doubtful, and if doubtful the decision of the Patent Office must control.
What was the invention which the parties each claim to
have made and in respect to which an interference was ordered
in the Patent Office ' It was thus stated by the examiner: "In
a device for coiling wire or wire rods, the combination with a
rotating coiling receptacle or reel for receiving and laying in
coils the rod as it is delivered from the rolls, of a spider or platform for supporting the coil mounted on a vertical shaft concentric with the reel-supporting shaft, and means for elevating
the platform shaft independently of the other."
Plaintiff claims to have conceived the idea of this combination in July, 1878, and to have made in that and the succeeding year sketches and drawings which fully disclosed it. It is
conceded that a machine embodying the invention was first
constructed and put into successful operation in the spring of
1886, and that this was done under the direction and superintendence of defendant.
During the years 1878 and 1879, the defendant, a man about
47 years of age, was, as he had been since 1864, the general
superintendent of the Washburn & Moen Manufacturing Company, a corporation engaged in the manufacture of iron and
steel wire; while the plaintiff, 24 years of age, was in the employ of the same company as a draughtsman, working under
the direction of the defendant. The business of the company
had, during the years of defendant's superintendency, grown

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

to be enormous. In the actual work of the mill,'as the finished wire came from the rolls it was coiled on reels. At first
this was done through the agency of an attendant seizing the
wire by a pair of tongs and engaging it with the reel, but this
-operation was attended with both danger and delay. To obviate this, the parties interested in this manufacture sought
the invention of machinery which should seize the finished
wire and engage it with the reel, and thereafter dislodge the
completed coil therefrom.
The defendant locates the time of his conception of the idea
embodied in this combination in October, 1878, and that which
enables him to locate it is a transaction with Daniel 0. Stover.
It appears that in October, 1878, Stover (who was a manufacturer and inventor) came to Worcester, Mass., and while
engaged in examining the machinery ip the mill had his
attention directed to the way in which the wire was coiled
on the reels, and thought that some device could be invented
for picking up the wire immediately after its leaving the rolls.
After some reflection he conceived the idea which he subsequently embodied in patent No. 219,124. He suggested his
idea to the defendant, who replied that it was not' new, and
that others were working at it. He prepared a model which
contained not only a device for picking up the wire, but also
one for discharging the completed coil, and exhibited it to
defendant, who, on his part, showed Stover a model which he
had prepared. It is not pretended that either the model of
Stover or that of defendant disclosed the exact combination
for which a patent was claimed in this case. Nor is it important to notice all the details of the transactions at the time
between Stover and the Washburn & Moen Company. It
appears that Stover sold and assigned a one-half interest in
his invention to the Washburn & Moen Company. The time
of Stover's visit is established by the date of that assignment
and the application which he made for a patent, and by other
writings. There is significance in the fact that although the
plaintiff was present when Stover's model was shown, it does
not appear that he made any suggestion that he had invented
anything of a similar character; and yet, if his present claim

MORGAN v. DANIELS.
Opinion of the Court.

is true, he had for months been considering the matter, and
had at least three months before conceived the very idea of
the combination now in dispute. But it is enough to say in
respect to this branch of the case that the story of the invention by defendant at the time stated is reasonable, probable,
and to a certain extent supported by the testimony of Stover.
As against this the plaintiff claims to have conceived the
idea of this combination in July, 1878, and relies mainly on.
the testimony of two witnesses, Lambert and Fowler. Though
he was a draughtsman he presented no sketch or drawing
made prior to November, 1878, which in any manner pictures
his invention. It is true he testifies to having made sketches
prior thereto, but none have been preserved. One of them he
claims to have shown to Lambert in July, 1878, and Lambert
was called as a witness to support this statement; but Lambert's testimony does not, it seems to us, carry the weight
which is claimed for it. He was a tinsmith by occupation,
employed at times by the Manufacturing Company, and testifies that in July, 1878, or about that time, very soon after
Daniels' return from Europe, he came to his shop and showed
him a sketch, and asked him to make a model of it. He declined, saying that he was too busy. Nothing more took place
at that time, but in the fall of 1886, at Daniels' request, he
made a model of the machine which, as he says, was disclosed
by that sketch. This model was in evidence. Now, it is possible that one seeing for a few minutes a sketch of a compli-cated machine can eight years thereafter remember the details
,of that sketch so clearly as to make an accurate model. But,
if it is possible, it surely is not probable. If the invention dis-closed in the sketch impressed either Daniels or Lambert as
something of great value, and, therefore, fixed itself firmly in
the mind, it is strange that neither seemed anxious to impress
it upon the attention of others, carry it into actual use, or derive profit from it. On the other hand, if it was one which
did not impress either as of any special value, it seems almost
morally certain that the details of the sketch and the precise
character of the invention would not have been accurately
.remembered through all those eight years. We must not be

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

understood as imputing to Lambert intentional falsehood. He
was familiar with the machinery actually in use in the wire
mill. He saw in the course of his acquaintance with that
machinery many models and many machines, and the machine
embodying this invention, as perfected, had been in actual use
in the mill several months before he made this model. He
may well have gotten some of these matters confused in his
mind, and introduced into this model elements and parts
which were not seen by him in the sketch displayed in 1878,
and which were in fact taken from other sketches and drawings, or from models, or machines. At any rate, when there
was nothing to specially arrest the attention, it taxes credulity
for one to claim that he bears in mind for over eight years the
details of a sketch of a complicated machine which is casually
shown to him, and which he sees but for a short time, and is
enabled to thereafter reproduce the details of that sketch in a
model.
Equally unreasonable is the testimony of Fowler, which is
to the effect that on July 20, 1878, (the date being fixed by a
memorandum in his diary,) Daniels came to visit him. This
diary notes the fact simply of the visit of Daniels, but contains
nothing in respect to the matters involved in this case. His
testimony as to this was in these words: "He explained by
rough sketches an arrangement he had for coiling the wire
after it was delivered from the rolls, which was a round box
mounted on an upright shaft, and in the bottom of the box
was a plate, perhaps I should say a movable plate, which
could be lifted for the purpose of raising the coil of wire.
That was his method of getting hold of the coil, to get it out
of the box." None of these rough sketches were preserved.
There was apparently nothing to impress the matter upon the
mind of Fowler, and his attention was not directed to it until
some time in the early part of 1887, nearly nine years thereafter, when Daniels called on him for the purpose of securing
his testimony in this case. Doubtless Fowler means to be
truthful. There is no reason to impugn his integrity, but his
testimony is subject to a criticism similar to that placed upon
the testimony of Lambert. As one of the matters which was

MORGAN v. DANIELS.
Opinion of the Court.

being considered and discussed by the Manufacturing Company
was how to do the work which is now being done by the machine finally constructed by defendant, it is not at all unlikely
that Daniels, one of the employ~s of that company, spoke of
the matter to Fowler at the time named; very likely he may
have drawn rough sketches to suggest the ideas which were
in his mind; but it is not probable that in the absence of some
special reason therefor the memory would carry for eight or
nine years the details of the plan or idea suggested by Daniels
and illustrated by these sketches. While, of course, it is possible, yet such testimony is not of a character to carry great
weight.
There is other testimony on both sides of this controversy.
It is unnecessary to notice it in detail. It is enough to say
that the testimony as a whole is not of a character or sufficient to produce a clear conviction that the Patent Office made
a mistake in awarding priority of invention to the defendant;
and because of that fact, and because of the rule that controls
suits of this kind in the courts,
Me reverse thejudgment and rema'nd the case, with instructions to dismiss the bill.
Mn. JusTIcE JAcxsoN did not hear the argument or take part
in the decision of this case.
VOL. CLI-9

