UNITED STATES v. KJLINGENBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. KLINGENBERG.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
N . 1066. Submitted lMarcb 26, 1894. -Decided

April 23, 1694.

The action of a collector of customs under ยง 2 of the act of June 10, 1890,
c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, in estimating the value of paper florins of AustriaHungary, in which the value of imported merchandise is expressed in the
invoices, and converting them into the currency of the United States, is
not the subject of appeal to and reversal by the board of general appraisers.
A Circuit Court of the United States has jurisdiction to review the action
of a board of general appraisers in entertaining such an appeal, and in
reversing the action of a collector in that respect.
THE case is

X.

stated in the opinion.

Solicitor General for appellants.

Mi,. W. Wickka

Smriti for appellee.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the court.

The question presented for our consideration by the record
in this case is whether the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York has jurisdiction to
review the decision of the board of general appraisers reversing the action of the collector of the port of New York in
estimating the value and converting paper florins into the currency of the United States on importations of merchandise,
the invoices of which were expressed in paper florins of Austria-Hungary, from which country the importations were
made.
The appellee, in July, 1892, imported certain merchandise,
consisting of china and glass ware, from Austria-Hungary,
which were entered for consumption at the port of New York
on July 23, 1892. The invoices of this merchandise were made

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.out in (paper) florins of Austria-Hungary, in accordance with
the provisions of section 2 of the Customs Administrative Act
,of June 10, 1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, which requires that "all

invoices of imported merchandise shall be made out in the
.currency of the place or country from whence the importation
shall be made." No consular certificate giving the value of
the paper florin accompanied the invoices or was produced
by the importer. In reducing the currency of the invoioes
into money of account of the United States the collector of
the port estimated the florin at $0.482, which was the value
of the gold florin as proclaimed by the Treasury Department
July 1, 1892. The importer duly protested against this action
of the collector, because the invoices accompanying the mer.chandise were not expressed in gold florins, and because in
estimating the value of the Austrian florin the collector should
have adopted the silver florin as the standard value, as last
proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury, which, was
$0.32; that the collector's adoption of the value of the gold
florin as the standard necessarily increased the amount of
.duties to be paid on the importations.
The protest of the importer having been made in due time
and form was transmitted by the collector to the board of
general appraisers at the port of New York, who, after hearing testimony, decided that the collector should have estimated
the florins of the invoices at $0.32 instead of at $0.482, and
.directed the reliquidation of the entry of the goods on that
basis.
Thereupon the collector, on behalf of the United States,
made application to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York for a review of this decision of the board of general appraisers. The petition set out
the facts already stated, and claimed that the beard of general.appraisers was in error in holding that the reduction of the
.currency of the invoice into money of account of the United
States should have been $0.32 to the florin, for the reasen
that by the estimate of the Director of the Mint, and the
proclamation of the Secretary of the Treasury, made July 1,
1892, in conformity with section 52 of the tariff act of Octo-

UNITED STATES v. KLINGENBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

ber 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 567, it appeared that silver was "the
nominal standard, paper the actual standard, the depreciation
of which is measured by the gold standard," which, under the
proclamation, was fixed at $0.482; that under the values fixed
by this proclamation the board erred in reversing the decision
of the collector, and in sustaining the protest of the importer
in the premises.
The importer moved to dismiss the application of the collector on the ground that the decision of the board of general
appraisers complained of could not be reviewed by the Circuit
Court under section 15 of the Customs Administrative Act,
because that decision related neither to the classification of
the merchandise, nor to the rate of duty thereon. The Circuit
Court being of opinion that it had no jurisdiction to enter
upon, hear, and decide the questions presented by the collector's petition, granted the motion, and dismissed the application. The United States being dissatisfied with this ruling,
the Circuit Court, under the provisions of section 5 of the act
of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 827, certified the question of
its jurisdiction in the premises to this court.
It is insisted on behalf of the United States that the collector's decision as to the value of the florin, under the provisions
of law and the proclamation of values made by the Secretary
of the Treasury on July 1, 1892, was conclusive and not subject to review by the board of general appraisers. This position is rested upon the rule laid down in the cases of The
Collector v. Richards, 23 Wall. 246, 259; Cramer v. Aithur,
102 U. S.612; and Hadden v. 3ferrite, 115 U. S.25, 27.
By section 1 of the act of March 3, 1873, 17 Stat. 602, it
was provided "that the value of foreign coin, as expressed in
the money of account of the United States, shall be that of the
pure .metal of such coin of standard value, and the values of
the standard coins in circulation of the various nations of the
world shall be estimated annually by the Director of the Mint,
and proclaimed on the first day of January by the Secretary
-of the Treasury." In pursuance of that act the Director of
the Mint having estimated the value of the franc of France at
nineteen cents and three mills, and the Secretary of the Treas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ury having on January 1, 1874, proclaimed it, the question
arose in the case of The Collector v. Richard, 23 Wall. 246,
259, whether goods invoiced in French francs and entered in a
custom-house here in March, 1873, were to be charged at this
new valuation of the franc. It was said by Mr. Justice Bradley, who delivered the opinion of the court in that case, that
"it seems to us . . . that the statute adopts the true
method of computing the value of. foreign money. The basis
of our dollar of account . . . is the standard gold dollar
of 25.8 grains, containing one-tenth alloy. The actual coinage
in circulation may be diminished in value by abrasion, and
this may have some effect on the dollar of account. But the
same thing is true in other countries, as the assays in the mint
have shown; and the true method of comparing their money
of account with ours, when both are based on actual coin, is to
compare the standard coins of the two countries in a perfect
state, and to ascertain the actual amount of pure metal in
each. This is the result at which Congress seems to have
arrived, and, as we think, wisely. In making the comparison
of the moneys of different countries, their gold coins, if they
have such, are employed for the purpose; gold having become
the general medium of international exchange, whilst silver
is regarded more as a domestic coin, and is usually made a
legal tender for only limited amounts. This practice, together
with the rejection of the alloy from the estimate, is in accordance with the rules laid down on the subject by the most
enlightened economists."
This first section of the act of March 3, 1873, was carried
into section 3564 of the Revised Statutes, and again came
under consideration in Cramer v. Arthur, 102 U. S. 612, 619,
in connection with section 2903, Revised Statutes, providing
for the case of invoices made out in a depreciated currency
issued and circulated under authority of any foreign government, and pursuant to which section regulations were established declaring that where the standard value of a foreign
currency has been proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury, in the manner provided by law, such value shall control
in estimating custom duties, unless collectors have been in-

UNITED STATES v. KLINGENBERO.
Opinion of the Court.

struoted otherwise, or unless a depreciation of the value of that
currency, "expressed in an invoice from the standard of that
currency, shall be shown by consular certificate thereto attached." There was a consular certificate in that case certifying the value of the Austrian florin, and the plaintiff sought
to go behind the valuation estimated by the Director of the
Mint, and proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury, but
this was not permitted, for the reason that the value of the
Austrian florin, as ascertained and fixed by the Director of
the Mint and the proclamation of the Secretary of the Treasury, was as conclusive as though fixed by the statute itself,
and all parties interested were conclusively bound thereby.
Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, said: "The proclamation of the Secretary, and the certificate of the consul,
must be regarded as conclusive. In the estimation of the
value of foreign moneys for the purpose of assessing duties,
there must be an end to controversy somewhere. When Congress fixes the value by general statute, parties must abide by
that. When it fixes it through the agency of official instrumentalities, devised for the purpose of making a near approximation to the actual state of things, they must abide by the
values so ascertained. If the currency is a standard one,
based on coin, the Secretary's proclamation fixes it; if it is
a depreciated currency, the parties may have the benefit of
a consular certificate. To go behind these and allow an
examination by affidavits in every case would put the assessment of duties at sea. It would create utter confusion and
uncertainty."
In the subsequent case of Hadden v. Merritt, 115 U. S.25,
27, construing sections 2838 and 3564, the former requiring all
invoices of merchandise subject to a duty ad valoren to be
made out in the currency of the place or country from whence
the importation shall be made, and that they shall contain a
true statement of the actual cost of such merchandise in such
foreign currency or currencies, without any respect to the
value of the coins of the United States, or of foreign coins, by
law, made current within the United States in such foreign
place or country, section 3564 was in the same language as
VOL. CLII-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

section 1 of the act of March 3, 1873, above referred to. It
was held in that case that "the value of foreign coins, as
ascertained by the estimate of the Director of the Mint and
proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury, is conclusive
upon custom-house officers and importers. No errors alleged
to exist in the estimate, resulting from any cause, can be
shown in a judicial proceeding to affect the rights of the government or individuals. There is no value, and can be none,
in such coins, except as thus ascertained; and the duty of
ascertaining and declaring their value, cast upon the Treasury
Department, is the performance of an executive function requiring skill and the exercise of judgment and discretion
which precludes judicial inquiry into the correctness of the
decision. If any error in adopting a wrong standard, rule, or
mode of computation, or in any other way, is alleged to have
been committed, there is but one method of correction, that
is, to appeal to the department itself. To permit judicial
inquiry in any case is to open a matter for repeated decision,
which the statute evidently intended should be annually settled by public authority; and there is not, as is assumed in
the argument of the plaintiff in error, any such positive and
peremptory rule of valuation prescribed in the statute as
serves to limit the discretion of the Treasury Department in
making its published estimate, or would enable a court to correct an alleged mistake or miscalculation. The whole subject
is confided by the law exclusively to the jurisdiction of the
executive officers charged with the duty, and their action cannot be otherwise questioned."
Section 2 of the Customs Administrative Act of June 10,
1890, c. 407, 26 Stat. 131, is a substantial reproduction of section 2838 of the Revised Statutes, in providing that all invoices
of imported merchandise shall be made out in the currency
of the place or country from whence the importations shall
be made, or if purchased in that currency shall be a true
statement of the amount actually paid therefor; and section
52 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, c. 1244, 26 Stat. 567,
is a reproduction of section 3564, with the exception that it
provides that the value of standard coins of foreign countries

UNITED STATES v. KJLINGENBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be estimated quarterly, instead of annually, by the Director of the Mint, and be proclaimed by the Secretary of the
Treasury on the first day of January, April, July, and October
of each year.
These provisions being substantially regnactments of former
laws, must, upon well-settled principles, be interpreted in the
light of the decisions already referred to, and the estimate
of the Director of the Mint, as proclaimed by the Secretary of
the Treasury, fixing the values of foreign coin or currency in
terms of the money of account of the United States, must
be held equally conclusive both upon the government and the
importer as under the former statutes.
In accordance with the provisions of section 52 of the tariff
act of 1890, after the Director of the Mint had made his
estimate of the value of foreign coins, the Secretary of the
Treasury on July 1, 1892, issued his proclamation as to
the "values of coins in terms of money of account of the
United States, to be followed in estimating the value of
foreign merchandise exported to the United States on and
after July 1, 1892, expressed in any such currencies." (Treas.
Synopsis, 13,003.) That portion of the proclamation relating
to Austria-Hungary gave the value of the gold florin at
$0.482, and of the silver florin at ,$0.32 in terms of the United
States gold dollar. In a foot-note to the proclamation is this
statement: "Silver, the nominal standard; paper, the actual
standard, the depreciation of which is measured by the gold
standard."
Under and in pursuance of this proclamation of the Secretary of the Treasury, fixing the value of the Austria-Hungary
silver and gold florins, and in the absence of a consular certificate as to the value of the paper florin, the question which
was presented for the collector's action and decision was
whether the paper florin of the invoices should be estimated
on the basis of the value of the gold or the silver florin. The
collector adopted the value of the gold florin as the proper
standard, while the importer insisted that the value of the
silver florin, as proclaimed, should have been adopted as the
standard.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the collector's action and ruling on
the question was correct, for the reason that in the proclamation and the foot-note attached thereto, silver was stated to
be only the nominal standard, while paper was the actual
standard, the depreciation of which was to be measured by
the gold standard. It was not shown, however, that the
paper florin of the invoices was actually depreciated, as compared with the gold standard, and the value was properly
taken as that of the gold florin, - the real standard with
which it was to be compared, -gold having become, as stated
in The Collector v. Rickards, 23 Wall. 259, 260, the general
medium of international exchange, while silver was regarded
more as a domestic coin. The collector was not authorized
to presume that the paper florin was so depreciated as to be
reduced to the value of the silver florin, which under the
proclamation of the Secretary of the Treasury was only
referred to as the nominal standard. If there had been a consular certificate with the invoices, showing that the paper
florin was simply and merely of the value of the silver florin,
the claim of the importer would have had some foundation
upon which to rest, but in the absence of such a certificate
the collector was clearly authorized in assuming that the currency of the invoices was equal in value to that of the real
standard, which was the gold florin.
Section 52 of the Customs Administrative Act provides that
the value of the foreign coin, as expressed in the money of
account of the United States, shall be that of the pure metal
of the coin of standard value, and the proper construction of
the proclamation, in the absence of a consular certificate as
to the value of the paper florin, required the collector to adopt
the gold florin as the pure metal and the better standard,
rather than the value of the silver florin, which was referred
to as only a "nominal standard."
This being the proper construction to be placed upon the
proclamation of July 1, 1892, we are of opinion that the collector's action in adopting the value of the gold florin at the
estimate fixed therein was not subject to review by the board
of general appraisers, under the principle laid down in the

UNITED STATES v. KLINGENBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

authorities already referred to. If the action of the collector
was conclusive, certainly the Circuit Court of the United States
had jurisdiction to pronounce the decision of the board reversing the collector's ruling null and void.
But suppose the collector's construction of the law and the
proclamation imposed on the importer a greater amount of
duties than he was properly chargeable with, and that he had
a ight, after protest, to have that question reviewed on appeal
by the board of general appraisers, is the decision of that
board, reversing the collector's action, conclusive on him and
on the United States, whom he represents? On the assumption
that an appeal did lie from the collector's action to the hoard
of general appraisers, the question as to the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court to review the adverse action of the board must
depend upon the proper construction to be placed on sections
13, 14, and 15 of the Customs Administrative Act of June 10,
1890.
The thirteenth section of the act relates solely to the appraisement of imported merchandise, and declares that the
decision of the board of general appraisers "shall be final and
conclusive as to the dutiable value of such merchandise," and
directs the collector to ascertain, fix, and liquidate the amount
of duties to be paid on such valuation.
Section 14 provides that the decision of the collector as to
the" rate and amount of duties,

.

.

.

including all dutiable

costs and charges, and as to all fees and exactions of whatever
character, except duties on tonnage, shall be final and conclusive," unless the importer appeals to the board of general
appraisers. This section clearly allows and provides for an
appeal by the importer from the decision of the collector, as to
both rate and amount of duties, as well as dutiable costs and
charges, and as to all fees and exactions.
By section 15, so far as it relates to the matter in question,
it is provided that "if the importer

.

.

or the collector

shall be dissatisfied with the decision of the board of
general appraisers as provided for in section 14 of this act, as
to the construction of the law and the facts respecting the
classification of such merchandise and the rate of duty imtposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

thereon under such elassifcation,they, or either of them, may
apply to the Circuit Court . . . for a review of
the questions of law and fact involved in such decision."
This section further provides for certifying all the evidence
taken before the general appraisers and their decision thereon,
(and for the taking of further testimony,) which is made to
constitute the record on which the Circuit Court is to hear
and determine the questions of law and fact involved in the
decision of the board of general appraisers. This section in
express terms provides that the Circuit Court shall have jurisdiction to review, not merely questions of law and fact respecting the classification of imported merchandise and the rate of
duty imposed. thereon under such classification, but such right
of review extends to the decision of the board upon all questions and matters in respect to which an appeal will lie
thereto under the provisions of section 14. In other words,
the right of review by the Circuit Court is coextensive with
the right of appeal to the board as to all matters except the
dutiable valve of the imported merchandise, as to which the
decision of the board of general appraisers is by section 13
made conclusive.
Now, by section 14 of the act, if the decision of the collector
imposes an excessive amount of duties, under an improper construction of the law, the importer may take an appeal to the
board of general appraisers, whose decision on such questions
is not made conclusive as it is in respect to the dutiable value
of the merchandise, and not being conclusive, it is subject to
review under the express provisions of section 15.
The action of the collector in the present case did not relate
either to the classification of the goods, or to the rate of duty
imposed thereon, but, as conceded by counsel for the appellee,
merely increased the amount of duties to be paid by the importer to the extent of the difference between $0.32, as the
value of the silver florin, and $0.482, as the value of the gold
florin, in the currency of account of the United States. This
involved no dispute between the parties as to either classification or rate of duty; or the dutiable value of the imported
merchandise. But it did involve the proper construction of

UNITED STATES v. KLINGENBERG.
Opinion of the Court.

the law, as embodied in section 52 of the tariff act of 1890,
and the estimate of the florin as made by the Director of the
Mint, and as proclaimed by the Secretary of the Treasury on
July 1, 1892, made in pursuance thereof.
Now, it is claimed on behalf of the appellee that the rule
laid down in In re .Fassett,142 U. S. 479, 487, and in Pa.savat v. United States, 148 U. S. 214, sustains the action of the
Circuit Court in declining to take jurisdiction for the purpose
of reviewing the decision of the board of general appraisers
in reversing the action of the collector. There is.
nothing in
JA r-e
Fassett even intimating that on the question here under
consideration the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction to review
the decision of the board of general appraisers. It was said in
that case that "the appeal provided for in section 15 brings
up for review in court only the decision of the board of general appraisers as to the construction of the law, and the facts
respecting classification of imported merchandise, and the rate
of duty imposed thereon under such classification." The question in that case was whether a British-built pleasure steamer
yacht, purchased in England by a citizen of the United States,
and entered at the port of New York, was liable to duty as
an imported article.. The case did not in any way involve the
question here under consideration.
In the subsequent case of Passavant v. United States, 145
U. S.214, the only question presented for the consideration
and determination of the court was whether the dutiable value
of imported merchandise, as fixed and ascertained by the
board of general appraisers, was subject to review in the Circuit Court. It was held. that it was not, for the reason that
by section 13 of the act of June 10, 1890, the decision of the
board of general appraisers was declared to be "final and conclusive" as to the dutiable value of such merchandise against
all parties interested therein. This clear and explicit language
of the statute left no room for construction, and the decision
in Passavantv. United States went only to the point of holding that the dutiable value of imported merchandise, as fixed
by the board of general appraisers, was conclusive, and not
subject to review by the Circuit Court.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Neither of these cases, in their facts nor in the principles
on which they proceed, is directly in point or controlling of
the present case.
Under a proper construction of sections 14 and 15 of the
act of June 10, 1890, it cannot be held that the right of review
by the Circuit Court is limited and confined, as contended by
the appellee, to the two subjects of classification and the rate
of duty. By section 14, the collector's decision on rate and
amount of duties, including all dutiable costs and charges, and
as to all fees and exactions of whatever character, (except
duties on tonnage,) may be the subject of appeal to the board
of general appraisers. The subjects of review by the Circuit
Court, provided for by section 15, extend to all questions
of law and fact in respect to which the board of general
appraisers have appellate jurisdiction, except the decision of
that board as to the dutiable value of merchandise, which is
provided for by section 13, and is made conclusive against
all parties interested.
We, therefore, are of opinion, first, that the collector's action
in estimating the value of the florin was not the subject of
appeal to and reversal by the board of general appraisers, and
if it was not it was proper for the Circuit Court to so declare,
and reverse the board; secondly, if the right of appeal to the
board did exist, then the Circuit Court of the United States
had undoubted jurisdiction to review that decision on the
application of the collector.
The action of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill for want
of jurisdiction is accordingly reversed, and the cause
remanded to be proceeded with. inm conformity with this
opinion.

