Dec. 1870.]

MEssENGER V. MASON.
Syllabus.

that if the lot, as thus described, came to the margin of the
stream, no title to the precise locality supposed to be dedicated ever passed from the United States.
Much, however, as we respect that court, we feel at liberty
to hold, as we do, that there is no valid dedication as the
case is presented to us.
On the whole we are of opinion that Sheparidson, as
riparian owner of a lot hounded by a navigable stream, had
a right to erect this whrf, afid that Yates, the appellant,
whether he be regarded as purchaser or as licensee, has the
same right; and that if the authorities of the city of Milwaukee deem its removal necessary in the prosecution of
any general scheme of widening the channel and improving
the navigation of the Milwaukee River, they must first make
him compensation for his property so taken for the public
use.
The d,,eree of the Circuit Court is therefore REVERSED,
with instructions to enter a decree enjoining the defendants
below from interfering with plaintiff's wharf, reserving,
however, the right of" the city to remove or change it so far
as may be necessary in the actual improvement of the navigability of the river, and
UPON DUE COMPENSATION MADE.

MESSENGER V.

MASON.

1. A certificate from the Supreme Court of Iowa (lately a Territory) that in
a case brought here from its final judgment, the validity of the Partition
Law of Iowa Territory, approved January 4th, 1839, was drawn in
question, on the ground that the same was in conflict with the Ordinance
of 1787, the Constitution of the United States, the treaties and laws
thereof, the objections thereto overruled, and the statute hold to be
valid against the rigfhts and interests of the defendant, as claimed by
them, presents the constitutional objection in too general a form to give
this court jurisdiction under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.

2. That section does ilot apply to the case where is drawn in question thc
validity of a statute of a Territory.

MESSENGER

V. MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
8. Where an ordinance of the United States, then existing, has been incorporated as organic law into the system of laws of a new Territory,
with a provision, however, that the ordinance should be subject to be
altered, modified, or repealed by its governor and legislature, the decision of the Supreme Court of the State (lately the Territory) cannot be
brought here under the 25th section, on the ground that in a suit before
it there was drawn in question the validity of a statute of the Territory
as being repugnant to a law of the United States.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Iowa. The case was thus:
Mason sued Messenger in one of the county courts of
Iowa, to recover the possession of certain land in that State.
He relied upon a judgment in partition of the tract, rendered
in the District Court of the Territory of Iowa, in April, 1841,
in pursuance of a law of that Territory.
The defendant objected to the admission of the record of
judgment on the ground that the law -under which the proceediigs were had was unconstitutional and void.
The objection was overruled, the record admitted, and a
verdict and judgment rendered for the plaintiff. On an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the Territory, by the defendant, the judgment was affirmed, and the case was
brought here as within the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act.
The certificate from the Supreme Court of Iowa certified:
"That on the final hearing, the validity of the partition law
of Iowa Territory, approved January 4th, 1839, was drawn in
question, on the ground that the same was in conflict with the
Ordinance of 1787, the Constitution of the United States, the
treatieo and laws thereof, that the objettions thereto were overruled, and the statute held to be valid."
The Territory of Iowa, it should be stated, was not a part
of that to which the Ordinance of 1787 originally applied,
but was a part of the Louisiana purchase. Prior to June
12th, 1838, it was part of the Territory of Wisconsin.* The
act, however, of the date just mentioned, which set it off and
* 5 Stat. at Large, 235.

Dec. 1870.]

MSSENGER V.

MASON.

Opinion of the court.

made its organic law, incorporated into its laws, indirectly,
many of the provisions of the ordinance by extendinig to its
inhabitants the rights and privileges theretofore secured to
the Territory of Wisconsin by its organic law, among which
were those found in the ordinance.* But the section that
conferred these rights and privileges upon the new Territory
of Iowa, provided that they should be subject "to be altered,
modified, or repealed" by its governor and legislative assembly.
Mr. Mason now moved to dismiss the case for want of
jurisdiction, submitting that the certificate did not present
any Federal question, and that the case was not within the
25th section.
Mr. Wills, contra,insisted that it was plain enough by the
certificate that a right set up under the Ordinance of 1787
had been denied to his clients in consequence of the partition law of Iowa; and as the Ordinance of 1787, made by
the Congress of the Confederation, was continued in force
by an act of the Congress of the United States,t that a
Federal question was thus raised.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It is insisted, on the part of the defendant in error, that
an examination of the record, will show that there is no
Federal question in the case of which this court can take
cognizance.
In the -case of Maxwell v. Newbold et al.T it was held the
objection that "the charge of the court, the verdict of the
jury, and the judgment below are each against, and in conflict-with the Constitution and laws of the United States,"
was not sufficiently specific to raise a question within the
provisions of this section. The Chief Justice in delivering
the opinion of the court observes, that "the clause in the
Constitution and the law of Congress should have been
specified by the plaintiffs in error in the State court, in order
Act of 7th August, 1789, 1 Stat. at Large, 50.
* 18 Howarl, 511.
*.

-

12.

MESSENGER V. MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that this court might see what was the right claimed by
them, and whether it was denied by the decision of the State
court." This court had previously held, in Lawler v. Walker
aud oihers,* that the statement in a certificate of the State
court that there was drawn in question the validity of statutes
of Ohio, without saying what statutes, was too indefinite,
and that the statutes complained of in the case should have
been specified. These decisions were reaffirmed in Hoyt v.
Shelden.t It is quite clear, upon these authorities, that the
constitutional objection taken in the present case is too general to be'noticed on a writ of error under this 25th section.
As to the effect of thecertificate from the court below,
see Commercial Bank v. Buckingh.am,T Lawler v. Walker,ยง and
Porter v. Foley.I
One difficulty in bringing the case Wuithin this 25th section
is, that it makes no provision for the re-examination of a
judgment in a State court which upholds the validity of a
statute of a Territory in contravention of the Constitution.
It applies only to the case where is drav"i in question the
validity of a statute of, or authority exercised under, any
State. The circumstance, therefore, that the court below
held the statute of the Territory providing for partition of
lands among tenants in common, valid, is of no importance
in the case.
It has been urged on the argument, however, in view of
the certificate of the court, that a right set up under the
Ordinance of 1787, by the defendants at the trial, had been
denied them, and that the construction of a law of Congress
had thus been drawn in question.
Although the organic law of the Territory of Iowa did
incorporate into its system of laws, indirectly, many of the
provisions of the Ordinance of 1787, by extending to its inhabitants the rights and privileges theretofore secured to
the Territory of Wisconsin by. its organic law, among which
were those found in the ordinance, yet the same section
14 Howard,*149.

II 24 Id.

413.

t 1 Black, 518.

65 Howard, 817.

Scott v.Jones, 6 Howard, 875.

14 Ib. 149.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. McCLURE.

511

Statement of the case.

that conferred these rights and privileges upon the Territory
of Iowa provided that they should be subject to be altered,
modified, or repealed by the governor and legislative assembly of the said Territory. If,therefore, anything is found
in this act of partition in conflict with these provisions, to
that extent they must be regarded as altered or modified,
which affbrds a complete answer to the ground relied upon
under the ordinance.
MOTION GRANTED.

Mr. Justice MILLER took no part in the decision, having
been counsel in the case.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MCCLURE.
1. No jurisdiction exists in this court under the 2.5th section of the Judiciary
Act, to review a decision of the highest court of the State, maintaining
the validity of a law which it has been set up "1impairs the obligation
of a contract," when the law set up as having this effect was in existence when the alleged contract was made, nd the highest State court
has only decided that there was no contract in the case.
2. A constitution of a State is in this case admitted to be a " law,'" within
the meaning of that clause of the Constitution of the United States,
which ordains that "no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts."
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Iowa; the case in its principal features being thus:

The District Court of Washington County, Iowa, on a bill
by the county to restrain the collection of taxes for the payment of certain county bonds issued to railroads in June and
July, 1858, and where the fact whether, at the tine the bonds
were issued, the then constitution of the State gave authority
to counties to issue such bonds, was one of the issues raised
by the pleadings, enjoined the collection; so apparently, in
effect, deciding that the bonds were void under the constitution of the State existing when they were issued. The

