'TEXAS V. IHARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

under the same head of Barbary States, at which consuls are
to be appointed to reside, and designates their compensation,
omitting, as in the act of 1855, the city of Algiers, and provides that consuls not thus enumerated shall be entitled, as
compensation for their services, to such fees as they may
collect, a provision which in effect declares, when read in
connection with the preceding clauses of the act, that they
shall receive no other compensation. And this latter act
repeals all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with its provisions.
We find no error in the judgment of the Court of Claims,
and it is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

TEXAS V. IJARDENBERG.
1. Under a bill by a State praying that a defendant may be enjoined from
asking payment of certain United States bonds belonging to it, unlawfully taken some time before from its treasury, and now redeemable,
and for such other andfurtherrelief as the court may deem proper, equity
will follow a substituted security (new bonds bearing interest) given by
the United States; the substitution having been made after the issue
of process under the bill, though before service, by agreement between
the holder of the bonds and the United States, in order that the party
properly entitled, whoever he might be finally under the bill decided
to be, should not lose interest; and the new bonds being held by a trustee for this purpose.
2. A party buying bonds of the United States with overdue and unpaid coupons, is to be taken as affected with knowledge of prior equities when
he purchases them after the date when they are redeemable, and for
which the coupons run, knowing that the government, paying promptly
all its bonds generally, objects at that time to redeeming these, and does
not in fact redeem them or the overdue coupons, and where notice has
been given in public papers of great circulation that payment of the
bonds was forbidden, and that there was difficulty about them.

Tiis case, which, in its principal aspect, has been already
reported,* was now here upon an additional part of it, and
* 7 Wallace, 700.

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS V. HARDENBERG.
Statement of the case.

under an order made when the main decree was given for
further hearing on that additional part, if such hearing
should be demanded. The case as presented by that parta presentation of which, in a full and consecutive way,
makes necessary a repetition of some parts of the original
case-was thus:
In 1851, the United States issued five thousand bonds for
$1000 each, and numbered successively from No. 1 to No.
5000, to the State of Texas. The bonds, which were dated
January 1st, 1851, were coupon bonds, payable, by their
terms, to the State of Texas or bearer, with interest at five
per cet, semi-annually, and "redeemable after the 31st day of
December, 1864." Each bond contained a statement on its
face that the debt was authorized by act of Congress, and
was "transferable on delivery," and to each were attached six mouth coupons, extending to December 31, 1864, but no
further.
In ptursuance of an act of the legislature of Texas, the
controller of public accounts of the State was authorized to
go to Washington, and to receive there the bonds; the
statute making it his duty to deposit them, when received,
in the treasury of the State of Texas, to be disposed of "as
may be provided by law;" and enacting further, that no bond,
issued as aforesaid and payable to bearer, should be "available in the hands of any holder until the same shall have

been indorsed, in the city of Austin, by the governor of the State
of Texas."
Most of the bonds were indorsed and sold according to
law, and purchased in or paid by the United States prior to
1860. A part of them, however, appropriated by act of
legislature as a school find, were still in the treasury of
Texas, in Jwnuary, 1861, i hen the late Southern rebellion
broke out. Texas was one of the rebel States; and the part
which she took in the rebellion is sufficiently known. In the
particular matter of this case, the legislature of the State,
immediately after its so-called "ordinance of secession" was
passed, directed the iebel military board of the State to dispose of any bonds and coupons which may be in the treasury

TEXAS V.' HARDENBEERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

on any account, and use such funds or their proceeds for the
defence of the State; and repealed the act which made an
indorsement of the bonds by the governor of Texas necessary to make them available in the hands of the holder.
Under these acts, the military board, on the 12th Janu&Ty,1865, a date at which the success of the Federal arms
seemed probable, agreed to sell to White & Chiles a large
number of these bonds, then in the treasury of Texas, and
the 'bonds were delivered to White & Chiles on the 15th
March following, none of them being indorsed by any governor
of Texas.
In February, 1862, after the rebellion had broken out, the
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States was informed
by the Hon. G. W. Paschal, a loyal citizen of the State of
Texas, that an effort would be made by the rebel authorities
of Texas to use the bonds remaining in the treasury in aid
of the rebellion; but that they could be identified, because
all that had been circulted before the war were indorsed by
different governors of Texas. The Secretary of the Treasury
acted on this information, and refused in general to paybonds
that had not been indorsed. On the 4th of October, 1865,
this same gentleman acting as an agent of the State of Texas,
caused to appear in the money report and editorial articles
of the New York Herald, a notice of the transaction between
the rebel government of Texas and White & Chiles, and a
statement that the treasury of the United States would not
pay the bonds transferred to them by such usurping government. In addition to this, on the 10th. October, 1865, the
provisional governor of the State published in the New York
Tribune, a " Caution to the Public," in which he recited that
the rebel government of Texas had, under a pretended contract, transferred to White & Chiles " one hundred and
thirty-five United States Texan indemnity bonds, issued
January 1, 1851, payable in fourteen years, of the denonination of $1000 each, and coupons attached thereto to the
amount of $1287.50, amounting in the aggregate, bonds and
coupons, to the sum of $156,287.50." His caution did not
specify, however, any particular bonds by number. The

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS

V.

I-ARDENBERG.

Statement of the case.

caution went on to say that the transfer was a conspiracy
between the rebel governor and White & Chiles to rob the
State treasury, that-White & Chiles had never paid the State
one farthing, that they had fled the State, and that these facts
had been made known to the Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States. And "a protest was filed with him by
Mr. Paschal, the agent of the State of Texas, against the
payment of the said bonds and coupons unless presented for
payment by proper authority." The substance of this notice
was published in money articles of various newspapers of
about that date, and men in New York and other places,
dealing in stocks, spoke to the agent who had caused it to
be inserted in the Tribune, about it. It'was testified also,
that after the commencement of the suit, White & Chiles
said that they had seen it.
The rebel forces being disbanded on the 25th May, 1865,
and the civil officers of the usurping government (f Texas
having fled from the country, the State of Texas, on the 15th
February, 1867, filed, with the leave of the court, a bill
against White & Chiles, one Hardeuberg, and some other
persons, as defendants, on account of these bonds.
The bill set forth the issue and delivery of the bonds to
the State, the fact that they were seized by a combination
of persons in armed hostility to the government of the United
States, sold by an organization styled the military botrd,
to White & Chiles, for the purpose of aiding the overthrow
of the Federal government; that White & Chiles bad not
performed what they agreed to do ; that they had transferred
such and such numbers, specifying them, to Ilardenberg,
and such and such others to different persons named; that
these transfers were not in good faith, but were with express
notice on the part of the transferees of the manner in which
the bonds had been obtained by White & Chiles; that the
bonds were overdue at the time of the transfer; and that
they l.ad never been indorsed by any governor of Texas;
that flmy w.Qre placed in the hands of the defendants holding them, for the purpose of collecting the proceeds from the
United States; and that the defen'dants designed to collect

TEXAS V. HARDENBERG.

.[Sup. or.

Statement of the case.

the proceeds and apply the same to their own use, in disregard of the just rights, and to the great loss and injury of
the complainant. And one of the interrogatories required
from each defendant, except White & Chiles, to whom somewhat different interrogatories were addressed, a statement
whether any other person was interested in any, and, if any,
in which of the bonds, or the proceeds thereof.
The prayer of the bill was for an injunction against the.
defendants or any of them askingior receiving payment of the
bonds from the United States, and that the bonds might be delivered to the State of Texas; and for other and further relief
as to the court should seem fit and proper. On the same 15th
of February, 1867, that the bill was filed, a motion for injunction was made, and it was ordered to be set down for
hearing on the 2d of May following, and that copies should
be served on the defendants at least ten days before. Process and subpcna were issued forthwith and served; the
service on Hardenberg being made February 27th. 'He
filed his f.nswer May 15th, and on the 16th, the motion for
an injunction wits granted with leave to the defendants to
move to dissolve it at December Term, 1868. The dates are
important, as will appear in connection with other dates hereafter stated.
The different defendants answered, and evidence having
been taken and the cause argued, a decree was entered
affirming the jurisdiction of the court (of which a denial had
been made, and which was a main point argued), and finding that the contract of the 12th of January, 1865, between
White & Chiles and the military board of Texas, was null
and void; and that the indemnity bonds, received by the
State from the United States, and transferred under that
contract to White & Chiles, remained the property of the
State notwithstanding that transfer.
The decree further found that the State of Texas was entitled to recover any of the bonds and coupons, or any proceeds thereof, which had come to the possession of any other
defendants than White & Chiles, with notice of the equity
of the complainant, and perpetually enjoined:Hardenberg,

Dec., 1869.]

TEXAS V.

HARDENBERG.

Statement of the case.

with other defendants, from setting up any claim or title to
any of the bonds and coupons, or proceeds, which had. come
into their possession and control with such notice.
It was further decreed that certain defendants were accountable to'make restitution of the bonds and the proceeds
received by them; but it appearing that Hardenberg, before
the commencement of this suit, had deposited thirty-four
bonds with the Secretary of the Treasury, and now alleged
that lie had received payment from the United States before the
service of process, it was ordered that the counsel of those parties should be farther heard in respect to such payment and the

effect of it.
It wjs this matter, therefore, a sequel, as already said, of
the main case, which made the chief subject of the present
hearing.; re-argument being also, in fact, allowed on a point
argued on the hearing of the main case,-how I'r Hardenberg was a holder bond fide, for value and without notice,
of the bonds held by him.
The case, as respects both these points, was thus:
1. As to the effect of the payment.-The answer of Hardenberg to the bill filed by the State of Texas, stated, that "on
the 16th of February, 1867, the Secretary of the Treasury
ordered the payment to the respondent of all said bonds and
coupons, and the same were paid on that day." That the
bonds had been taken up was true; and the books of the treasury showed them as among the redeemed bonds; and showed
nothing else. As a matter of fact, however, and as regarded
the matter of a payment, the case was not so clear. It appeared that the agents of Texas, on the one hand, had been
urging the government not to pay the bonds, and that Hardenberg, on the other (who had been advised by Mr. Tayler,
December 17th, 1866; that payment was delayed in order
that information might be got from Texas), was pressing
for payment; it being insisted by him, as also by other
bondholders who were pressing for payment, of their bonds,
that the, United States had no right to withhold the money,
now overdue, and ceasing to draw interest. The Controller
of the Treasury, Mr. Tayler, in this state of things, made a

TEXAS v. HARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

report, on the 29th of January, 1867, to the Secretary of the
Treasury, in which he mentioned, that it seemed to be agreed
by the agents of the State, that her case depended on her
ability to show a want of good fhith pn the part of the holders
of the bonds; and that he had stated to the agents, that as
considerable delay had already been incurred, he would, unless during the succeeding week they took proper legal steps
against the holders, feel it his duty to pay such bonds as were
unimpeached in title in the holders' hands. He accordingly
recommended to the secretary payment of Hardenberg's and
of some others. The agents, on the same day that the controller made his report, and after he had written most of it,
informed him that they would take legal proceedings on
behalf of the State; and were informed in turn that the
report would be made on that day, and would embrace Hardenberg's bonds. Two days afterwards (January 31st, 1867),
a personal adtion was commenced, in the name of the State
of Texas, against Mr. MeCulloch, the then Secretary of
the Treasury, to corppel the detention of the bonds of Hardenberg and others. On the 8th of February, Mr. Tayler
informed Hardenberg that his bonds had been reported to
the secretary, with a recommendation that they be paid; but
that while the clerk in the secretary's office, according to the
usual practice, was preparing a statement, the personal action
above referred to had been commenced against Mr. McCulloch for the detention of the bonds, and that "this of course
compelled the secretary to postpone the p~iyment." This personal action was dismissed February 19th. On the 15th of
this same February, as already stated, the present bill was
filed. On the 16th of the month, no process under the present
bill having then, nor until the 271h following, been served on Hardenberg, Mr. Tayler, Controller of the Treasury, and one
Cox, the agent of Hardenberg, entered into an arrangement, by which it was agreed that this agent should deposit
with Mr. Tayler government notes known as "seven-thirties," equivalent in value to the bonds and coupons held by
llardenberg. The seven-thirties were then delivered to Mr.
Tayler, and a check in coin for the amount of the bonds and

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS V. "IARDENBERG.
Statement of the case.

interest was delivered to Hardenberg's agent. The seventhirties were subsequently converted into the bonds called
"five-twenties," and these remained in the hands of Mr.
Tayler, being. registered in his name as .'trustee." The
books of thl treasury showed nothing in relation to this
tvrust; nor, as already said, anything more or other than
tne bonds were paid to Hardenberg or his agent. But
a correspondence, referred to in the opinion of the court
below, gave the particulars of the transaction. The correspondence was thus:
[TAYLER TO Cox.]
WASHINGTON,

February 19, 1867.

SIR: In accordance with the understanding between you
and me in relation to the Texan indemnity bonds presented for
payment by your client, Mr. Hardenberg, you deposited with
me $55,000, in 7-30 Treasury notes, and I advised the secretary
to pay you the bonds.
DEAR

You were accordingly paid 34 bonds,
170 coupons,

$34,000
4,250

.

.

Total in gold,

$38,250

The $55,000 7-30 notes were deposited with and are held by me
as indemnity for Mr. McCulloch against any personal damage, loss,
and expense in which he may be involved by reason of the payment
of the bonds.
I believe this states substantially the arrangement, and the
cause and condition of the deposit.
I am, very sincerely, yours,
R. W. TAYLER.
Ho.

S.S.

Cox, New York.
[TAYLER TO HUNTINGTON.]
WASHINGTON, February 26, 1867.

SIR:

Herewith I band you $55,000 dollars U. .S. 7-30 notes,

which were delivered to me by S. S. Cox for a purpose explained
in my letter to him of the 19th inst. In lieu of these 7-30's I
have received from you $55,000, 5-20 registered bonds of 1865,
which are taken, as advised by Mr. Cox, and are to be held for

TEXAS V. HARDRNBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
the purpose above referred to. The bonds are registered in my
name as trustee.
I am, very respectfully,
R. W. TAYLER.
W. S. HUNTINGTON,
Cashier of the First National Bank, Washington.

[TAYLER TO COX.]
WASHINGTON, March 2, 1867.

DEAR SIR: Referring to my letter of the 19th February, to yours

of the 20th, and to our conversation a few days since, I have to
inform you that W. S. Huntington, cashier of the First National
Bank, Washington, placed in my hands $50,000 registered 5-20
bonds of 1865, in lieu of te. 7-30's mentioned in my letter, and
that I handed the 7-30's to him. The bonds are registered in
my name as trustee, and carry interest from January 1, 1867.
I am, very respectfully,
R. W. TAYLER.
HON. S. S. Cox, New York.

Besides these letters, which were exhibits to depositions
of Tayler, a letter and memorandum were in the record,
being papers addressed by Mr. Tayler, the one to the Chief
Justice, in consequence of some inquiry from the Bench, at
an early stage of the case, whether the secretary had paid
bonds after a bill was filed on the order to prevent payment;
the other an explanatory memorandum to counsel. The
letter and memorandum were thus:
[TAYLER TO THE CHIEF JUSTICE.]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
WASHINGTON, January 22, 1868.

Sin: In the answer of Mr. Hardenberg, in the case of "The
State of Texas v. White et al.," it is stated that "on the 16th
day of February, 1867, the Secretary of the Treasury ordered
the payment to the respondent of.all said bonds and coupons,
and the same were paid on that day." I am told the court think
this action of the secretary disrespectful toward them; but I am
sure nothing disrespectihl was intended, and I know that no act
of the secretary in relation to these bonds disregarded any order
or decree of the court. In form the bonds were paid; in fact the

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS V. HARDENBERG.
Statement of the ease.

proceeds have been withheld from Mr. Hardenberg, because
of the legal proceedings, which the secretary did not desire to
defeat.
I am, very respectfully,
IR. W.

TAYLER.

HON. S. P. CHASE, Chief Justice.
[MEMORANDUM

GIVEN TO COUNSEL.]
WASHINGTON, January 24, 1868.

The particular form in which the matter of Hardenberg,
referred to in my letter of the 22d to the Chief Justice, was
arranged, is as follows: At the time, the agent, of Hardenberg
claimed that the personal action against the secretary having
been withdrawn, and the decree enjoining the collection of the
bonds not having been served upon Hardenberg, there was no
legal objection against the payment of the bonds. The secretary, however,. while not disputing this, was not inclined under
the circumstances to pay them. It was then insisted that the
United States had no right to withhold the money, thus depriving the holder of ihterest upon it; and upon this suggestion it
was arranged that 7-30 notes, equivalent in value to the bonds
and i nterest, should be deposited with an officer of the department to secure the Secretary against any claim growing out of
the litigation, in whatever shape it might come, and from any
censure in the matter. The 7-30's were accordingly deposited,
and then a check in coin, for the amount of the bonds and interest, was delivered. This arrangement was not made by
Hardenberg in person, but by a gentleman representing him.
The 7-30's were subsequently converted into 5-20 bods, which
are in the hands of the same officer.
R. W. TAYLER.

'As to the bonafides, &c., the case seemed much thus:
In the beginning of November, 1866, after the. date of the
notices given by the State of Texas and her ageits, and after
the date from. which the bonds by #Weir terms were "redeemable,"
and after which the coupons ran oul; some coupons then, of course,
overdue and unpaidbeing on the bonds, one Hennessey, residing
in New York, and carrying on an importing and commission
business, sold to Hardenberg thirty of these same bonds,

TEXAS V.. HARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

originally9ven to White & Chiles; and which thirty, a correspondent of his, long known to him, in Tennessee, had
sent to him for sale. llardenberg bought them "at the rate
of $1.20 for the dollar on their face," and paid for them.
Hennessy had "heard from somebody that there was some
difficulty about the.bonds being paid at the treasury, but
did not remember whether he heard that before or after the
sale."
Hardenberg also bought others of these bonds near the
same time, at 1.15 per cent., under circumstances thus testified to by Mr. C. T. Lewis, a lawyer of New York:
"In conversation with Mr. Hardenb6rg, I had learned that
he was interested in the Texan indemnity bonds, and meditated
purchasing same. I was informed in Wall Street that such
bonds were offered for sale by, Kimball & Co., at a certain price,
which price I cannot now recollect. I infbrmed Mr. Hardenberg

of this fact, and he requested me to secure the bonds for him at
that price. I went to C. H. Kimball & Co., and told them to
send the bonds to Mr. Hardenberg's office and get a check for
them, which I understand they did. I remember expressing to

Mr. Hiardenberg the opinion that these bonds, being on their face
negotiable by delivery, and payable in gold, must, at no distant day,
be redeemed according to their tenor, and.were, therefore, a good purchose at the price at which they were offered.
"My impression is, that before this negotiation I had read a
paragraph in some New York newspaper, stating that the payment of the whole issue of the Texas indemnity bonds was suspended until the history of a certain portion of the issue, supposed to have been negotiated for the benefit of the rebel
service, should be understood. I am not at all certain whether
I read this publication before or after the date of the transac-

tion. If the publication was made before this transaction I hid
probably read the article before the purchase was made. My impression is, that it was a paragraph in a money article, but I attributed no great importance to it. I acted in this matter simply
as the friend of Mr. Hardenberg. and received no commission

for my services. I am a lawyer by profession, and not a broker."
Kimball & Co. (the brokers thus above referred to by Mr.

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS V. IIARDENBERG.

Statement of the case.

Lewis), testified that they had received the bonds thus sold,
from a firm which they named, "in perfect good faith, and
sold them in likle good faith as we would any other lot of
bonds received from a reputable house." It appeared, however, that in sending the bonds to Kimball & Co., for sale,
the firm had requested that they might not be known in the
transaction.
Hardenborg's own account of the matter, as declared by
his answer, was thus:
"That he was a merchant in the city of New York; that he
purchased the bonds held by him in open market in said city;
that the parties from whom he purchased the same were responsible persons, residing and doing business in said city; that he
purchased of McKim, Brothers & Co., bankers in good standing
in Wall Street, one bond at 1.15 per cent., on the 6th of November, 1866, when gold was at the rate of $1.47f, and declinin(-; that when he purchased the same he made no inquiries of
McKim, Brothers & Co,, but took the bonds on his own observation of their plain tenor and effect at what he conceived to
be a good bargain ; that afterwards, and before the payment of
said bonds and coupons by the Secretary of the Treasury, and
at the request of the Controller, lIon. R. W. Tayler, he made
.inquiry of said firm of McKim, Brothers & Co., and they informed him that said bon'ds and coupons had been sent to them
to be sold by the First National Bank of Wilmington, North
Carolina; that he purchased on the 8thof November, 1866,
thirty of said bonds, amounting to the sum of $32,475, of J. S.
Hennessey, 29 Warren Street, New York city, doing business as
a commission merchant, who informed him that, in the way of
business, they were sent him by Hugh Douglas, of Nashville,
Tennessee; that he paid at the rate of 120 cents at a time, to wit,
the 8th of November, 1866, when gold was selling at 1.46 and

declining; that the three other bonds were purchased by him
on the 8th of November, 1866, of C. 11. Kimball & Co., 30 Broad
Street, brokers in goosl standing, who inibrmed him, on inquiry
afterwards, that said bonds were handed them to be sold by a
baniig house in New York of the highest respectability, who
owned the same, but whose names were not given, as the said
firm informed him they'coul~d 'see no reason for divulging pri-

80

TEXAs V. IIARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

vate transactions;' and that he paid for last-mentioned bonds at
the rate of 120 cents, on said 8th day of November, 1866, when
gold was selling at 1.46 and declining.
"Further answering he saith that he had no knowledge at the
time of said purchase', that the bonds were obtained from the
State of Texas, or were claimed by the said State; that he acted
on information obtained from the public report of the Secretary
of the Treasury, showing that a large portion of similar bonds
had been redeemed, and upon his own judgment of' the nature
of the obligation expressed by the bonds themselves, and upon
his own faith in the full redemption of said bonds; and he
averred' that he had no knowledge of the contract referred to
in the bill of complaint, nor -f the interest oir relation of White
& Chiles, nor of any connection which they had with said complainant, or said bonds, nor of the law of the State of Texas, requiring indorsement."
The answer of White mentioned, in regard to Iardenberg's bonds, that they were sold by his (White's) broker;
that he, White, had no knowledge of the name of the real
purchaser, who, however, paid 115 per cent. for them; "that
at the time of the sale, his (White's) broker inifbrined him
thatthe purchaser, or the person acting for the purchaser,
did not want any introduction to the respondent, arid required no history of the bonds proposed to be sold ; that he
only desired that they should come to him through the hands
of a loyal person, who had never been identified with the
rebellion."
It appeared .fArther, in regard to the whole of the Texas
bonds, the subject of this suit, that, in June, 1865, Chiles,
wanting to borrow money of one Barret, and lie, Barret,
knowing Mr. Hamilton, just then appointed provisional
governor of Texas, but not yet installed, into office, nor apparently as yet having the impressions which lie afterwards
by his caution made public, went to him, supposing him
well acquainted with thenature of these bonds, and sought
his opinion as to their value, and as to whether they would
be paid. Barret's testimony proceeded:
"He advised me to accept the proposition of Chiles, and gave

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS V.

I1ARDENBERG.

Argument for the holder of the bonds.

it as his opinion that the government would have to pay the
bonds. I afterwards had several conversations with him on the
subject, in all of which he gave the same opinion. Afterwards,

(I can't remember the exact timd), Mr. Chiles applied to Birch,
Murray & Co. for a loan of money, proposing to give sonie bonds

as collateral security; and at his request I went to Birch, Murray &Co., and informed them of my conversations with Governor
Hamilton, and of his opinion as expressed to me. They then
seemed willing to make a loan on the security offered. In order
to give them further assurance that I was not mistaken in my
report of" Governor Hamilton's opinion verbally expressed, I
obtained from him a letter [letter produced]. it reads thus:
"NEW YORb, June 25th, 1865.

"HoN. J. R1. BARRET."
"DEAR SiR: In reply to your question about Texas indemnity bonds

issued by the U. S., I can assure you that they are perfectly good,
and the gov't will certainly pay them to the holders.
'
"Yours truly,
A_. J. H AXILTON.
The witness "mentioned the conversationshad with Governor Hamilton, and also spoke of the letter, and sometimes
read it to various parties, some of whom were dealing in
these bonds," and, as.he stated, had "reason to believe that
Governor Hamilton's opini6n in regard to the bonds became
pretty generally known among dealers in such paper." The
witness, however, did not know Mr. Uardenberg.
Messrs. Eyvarts and Car'lisle,for Hardenberg:
1. As to the effect of the payments.-When the bill was prepared, and indeed when it was filed, a wholly different state
of facts existed from- that against which it is now sought to
have relief. The bonds were then in the hands of IIardenberg, and unpaid. Assuming that he was not a holder bona
fide, &c., a prayer for injunction against receiving payment
was proper, and the only prayer which was proper, or indeed possible. Before, however, any process was served
on us, or bound the parties in any way, th'e bonds were
paid and surrendered. A wholly new state of' facts arose,
and the case assumed by the bill is discovered to have no
VOL. x.

6

TExAs

V

HARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the holder of the bonds.

existence. And what is now wanted is a bill that shall set
forth, along with the former alleged facts of purchase, the
fact of payment, substitution, &c., and a prayer to have the
substituted securities. Some such bill, in some form, is indispensable, unless we are to violate all rules of equity proceeding. The prayer for general relief cannot be so interpreted as to apply to a state of things which is the reverse
of the true state of things, to the state of things alleged in
the bill, and to the only state of things which was in the
complainant's mind at all. The difficulty of the complainant's case is not that his-bill does not set forth his now case
directly and with distdnctness, and does not pray for the
proper relief in the most specific way; but that it does not
set forth his now case at all, nor pray, in any way, relief
suitable to it; though it does set out another case, and-assuming that case to be true pray proper relief for it.The reliance of the other side will have to be on M.r. Tayler's letter to the Chief Justice, and his memorandum to
counsel, after he thought that he had made a mistake; an
exculpatory paper and memorandum. le had no capacity,
when he wrote that letter and made that memorandum, to
say what the transaction was in fact as distinguished from
form. That is a point to be judged of as a question of law
on a view of the thing done.
2. As to the bonafides, O'c.-lardenberg knew nothing of
the bonds except what appeared on their face, and from the
published official treasury reports, that similar bonds, of the
same issue, had been paid and redeemed at the Treasury of
the United States, notwithstanding the secession of Texas,
and the civil war and rebellion, which had been suppressed,
in point of fact, long before his purchase. He had no knowledge or information that Texas had at any time assumed to
alter the teims of the contract of the United States, as expressed on the face of the bonds, so as to expunge from them
the express declaration that they were payable to " bearer,"
and the repeated declaration to the same effect, that the
bonds passed "by delivery." He, therefore, was not affected
'by the fict that the bonds were not indorsed by the governor

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS

v.

HARDENBERG.

Argument for the holder of the bonds.

of Texas (if that alteration of the tenor of the bonds had
any legal efficacy), and was wholly ignorant that such in,dorsement had been authorized or required by Texas, for
her security against fraud, or for any other purpose.
He had no knowledge or information that the bonds purchased by him had ever been held or claimed by White &
Chiles, or either of them; or that any such contract as that
set up by the bill had been made. In brief, he was a perfect
stranger to all and singular the matters alleged by the bill,
as affecting the title to the bonds.
He found them in open market, in the city of New York,
in the month of November, 1866, and bought them in good
faith, and for their full market value, of brokers and others
of high standing, in the usual and regular course of business,
not.only without knowledge or notice, but without suspicion,
or reason to know or suspect, that there was any infirmity in
the title of his respective vendors, or any of them.
All this appears by his answer. It is plainly stated, is
responsive to the bill, is uncontradicted, and is, therefore,
the case of ardenberg.
Against this case, in matter of fact, nothing can be opposed but an alleged constructive notice of the dishonor of
the bonds, derived from the language on the face of the instruments, that they were "redeemable after the 31st day
of December, 1864," which day had passed when be purchased; and the further fact that there were unpaid and overdue coupons attached to the bonds. This, it will no doubt
be insisted, for the complainant opens the bonds in the
hands of Hardenberg "to all equities," and lets in the complainant to the relief claimed by the bill.
That coupon bonds, payable to bearer, are negotiable
securities, passing by delivery, like bank notes, and that
the possession is sufficient evidence of title, and that nothing short of knowledge of the infirmity of title, even in
the case of stolen bonds of this description, will defeat the
title of a bonafide purchaser for value, is now settled.*
* Murray v. Lardner, 2 Wallace, 110.

TEXAS V. HtARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the holder of the bonds.

Will it be insisted for the complainant, that when Hardenberg, purchased these bonds they were overdue, and that
this circumstance defeats his title ?
Suppose they were, in all respects, like a promissory note,
indorsed after it was due? What would be the legal consequence? Such an instrument does not cease to be negotiable when it is past due and unpaid. It is now settled,*
both in England and in this court, as we have seen, that
circumstances which would have put a prudent man vipon
inquiry, are not enough to affect the title of a- bond fide
holder for value. And there is not, and cannot be, the
slightest imputation to Mr. Hardenberg of ialafides. The
most that can be said of the fact, apparent on the fhce of a
negotiable instrument, that it is overdue, is that it implies,
prirnifacie,that the bill or note has been dishonored; that.
the maker or acceptor (the party primarily liable) refuses
to pay.
In point of fact, in the case at bar, no such thing is pretended. On the contrary, the whole ground for the suit,
which is an invocation of the equity powers of the court, is
that the maker, the United States, will certainly pay the
bonds to the holder, according to the face and tenor thereof,
unless the court will interfere and forbid such payment. It
is not perceived bow such a fact could have any such significance upon the question, whether the holder is, as his possession imports, really the owner; and that is the principal
question made by the complainant her,, upon thefirst proposition above considered.
Nor can it have any significance as to their second proposition, which is in effect the want of consideration for the
transfer
At most, the fact of the transfer, when overdue,
of a bill or note,'is to subject it in the hands of the holder to
all its equities; to all the equities with which it is incumbered
at the time of the transfer.
An original absence of consideration is not one of those
equities which attach on the instrument, and defeat the title
* Murray v. Lardner, 2 Wallace, 110.

Dec. 1869.)

TEXAS V. HIARDENBERG.
Opinion of the court.

of an indorsee for value of an oveFdue bill, although with
notice of the fact.*
But it is a mistake to say that these bonds were "overdue." It is only necessary to read the bonds themselves, to-sed
that there is no analegy, in this respect, between them and
a promissory note, payable to order on a certain day. They
were issued as stock, no t-paable to bearer on any certain day,
but "redeein able after fourteen years from their date." They
certified that interest would be paid semi-annually for that
period; but thereafter the bonds might be redeemed by the
United States at its pleasure and convenience. The fact
that, the day had passed after which (he bonds might be redeemed, and that they had in fact not been redeemed, signified nothing inconsistent with the obligation on its face.
The bonds had never been called in. The fiscal condition
of the country, and its unsettled political relations with the
rebel States, sufficiently explained the fact that they had
not been redeemed at the earliest day, when, by their tenor,
they were redeemable.
Upon this question of bona fides, considerable weight is
due to the opinion and action of Mr. Controller Tayler, who
upon the whole case, which he necessarily examined, considered that the bonds held by Hardenberg ought to be paid,
and who in fact did paV thein.
Messrs. Paschalland Merrick, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is asserted, in behalf ot Hardenberg, that he can, in no
event, upon the pleadings in this suit,'be held to account
for the proceeds of the bonds which came to his pogsession,
because the bill prays only relief by injunction against receiving payment ofthe-bonds or coupons, and by decree for
delivery of them specifically to the State.
It is not denied that the bill also prays for such other and
Charles v. Marsden, 1 Taunton, 224; Sturtevant & Ford for Mnning &
Granger, 101; Lazarus v:Cowie, 3 Queen's Bench, 459; Stein v. Yglesias,
1 Compton, Mleesor & Roscoe, 565.

86

TEXAS V. HARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

further relief as to the court shall seem just and proper; but
it is insisted that there is nothing in the frame of the bill
which will support a claim for relief as to proceeds where
payment of the bonds and coupons had been actually received before service of process.
It is undoubtedly true that no relief can be granted under
the general prayer except such as is agreeable to the case
made by the bill.*
And it is plain enough that the principal object of the bill
in this case was to prevent the collection of the bonds by
the defendants, and to compel the surrender of them to the
State of Texas. But there are averments and interrogatories
which look to the proceeds as well as to the bonds themselves. For example, it is charged that the bonds were
placed in the hands of the defendants holding them, for the
purpose of collecting the proceeds from the United States;
and again, that the defendants design to collect the proceeds
and apply the same to their own use, in disregard of the
just rights, and to the great loss and injury of the complainant. And one of the interrogatories requires from each
defendant, except White and Chiles, to whom somewhat different interrogatories are addressed, a statement whether
any other person is interested in any, and, if any, in which
of the bonds, or the proceeds thereof
It may be admitted that these allegations and interrogatories do not assert the right of the complainant to the proceeds with absolute directness and distinctness. The bill
might have been better drawn.. But we think it would
savor of extreme technicality to refuse to see in the bill
enough in relation to the proceeds of the bonds to warrant
relief in this respect under the general prayer.
It is proper to observe here that this objection to relief, in
respect to the proceeds of the bonds, was not taken on the
former hearing, and that the decree heretofore made distinctly finds that the State of Texas is entitled to restitution
of such of the bonds, and coupons, and proceeds as have
Story's Equity Pleading,

40; English v. Foxall, 2 Peters, 595.

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS V. HARDENBERG.

87

Opinion of the court.

come into the possession or control of the defendantsamong whom Hardenberg is expressly named-with notice
of the equity of the State. It might well be held, therefore, that this question is concluded by the former decree;
but willing to allow this defendant the benefit of any defence consistent with the rules which govern proceedings in
equity, we have looked into the question as if it were still
open. Having thus looked into it, we find no sufficient
ground for altering the conclusion embodied in the decree.
We come then to the real question upon which further
hearing was allowed, namely, what was the nature and effect
of the payment received by Hardenberg from the Secretary
of the Treasury, before service of process in this suit?
The bill was filed on the 15th of February, 1867, in pursuance of leave granted by the court. On the same day a
motion for injunction was made, and it was ordered that this
motion be set down for heaPing on the 2d of May, 1867, and
that copies of the order be served on the defendants at least
ten days previously. Process was ordered, and subpenas
were issued on the same day, and copies of the subpoena and
of the motion for injunction were served on Hardenberg on
the 27th of February. The answer of Hardenberg was filed
May 15th, and on the following day the motion for injunction was allowed, with leave to defendants to move for its
dissolution at the next term.
In the interval between the filing of the bill and the service of process, as Hardejiberg avers in his answer, the
Secretary of the Treasury ordered the payment to him of all
his bonds and coupons deposited for redemption, being the
same bonds and coupons alleged in tlie bill to be the property of the State of Texas, and they were paid accordingly
on that day.
What was this payment? On the 17th of December, 1866,
Hardenberg had been advised by Controller Tayler that
payment was delayed for informatio.n from Texas.. On the
8th of February he was further advised by the same official
that the bonds and coupons had been reported to the See-

TEXAS v. HARDENBER.G.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

retary of the Treasury for payment, but that payment had
been postponed in consequence of a personal action in the
name of the State of Texas against the secretary for thei'
detention.
It is clear that llardenberg was now informed that the
bonds and coupons, deposited by him for redemption, were
claimed by the State of Texas.
Subsequently, on the 16th of February, thirty-eight thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, being the amount of the
bonds and coupons, was paid to the agent of I-ardenberg in
a coin check, and at the same time treasury 7-30 notes to
the amount of fifty-five thousand dollars were deposited with
Controller Tayler, according to his statement, made in a
letter to the agent, dated February 19th, "as indemnity for
Mr. McCulloch" (the Secretary of the Treasury) " against
any personal damage, loss, and expense in which he might
be involved by reason of the payment of the bonds."
This payment was made on the day after the bill of the
State was filed in this court and subponas issued. That the
institution of the suit, thus begun, was known to the secretary at the time is apparent from the letter of Mr. Tayler to
the Chief Justice, dated January 22d, 1868, in which he
says: 1'In form the bonds were paid; in fact the proceeds
have been withheld from Mr. Hardenberg because of the
legal proceedings, which the secretary did not desire to defeat."
And all this is still further apparent from a memorandum
statement made by Mr. Tayler on the 24th, and handed to.
one of the counsel in the cause.
These statements Mr. Tayler in his deposition reaffirms;
but for additional particulars refers to his lette'r to the agent,
already quoted, and to a letter addressed by him on the same
day to the cashier of the.First National Bank.
From these letters, this memorandum, and the deposition
of Mr. Tayler, we do not think it difficult to collect the substantial facts of the transaction. IHardenberg was naturally
solicitous to collect the amount of his bonds and coupons,
which had ceased to bear interest; or, at any rate, to make

Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS

V. HARDENBERG.

Opinion of the court.

some arrangement by which the loss 6f interest pending the
liquidation might be avoided. The controller seems to have
thought that he was entitled.to payment, and the secretary
was willing to order payment to be made, but not willing to
incur any risk of consequential loss or injury. It was his
duty, in any arrangement that might be made, to protect
the government, and, through the governmentr the parties
really entitled to the bonds, as well as himself. And the
statements of Mr. Tayler, taken togetl*er, satisfy us fully that
it was the intention of the secretary, and his own, that these
objects should be accomplished.
With these views it was arranged that Hardenberg Should
deposit with the controller the 7-30 treasury notes, and receive the amount of the bonds and coupons in. coin, as
already mentioned. And further, that on the deposit with
the controller of fifty-thousand dollars in registered 5-20
bonds upon the same trust, the 7-30 bonds should be delivered to him or his agent.
That this arrangement was carried into effect appears
from Mr. Tayler's letter of March 2d, 1867, addressed to
Iardenberg's agent at New York. The letter concludes
with these words: "The bonds are registered in my name
as trustee, and carry-interest from January 1, 1867."
Trustee for whom? Equity looks through forms to substance; and the substance of this transaction clearly was the
substitution of one set of securities in the hands of the Controller of the Treasury for another, for the benefit of the
parties really entitled. In no other way could the object
of the trust, namely, the security of the government and
the secretary against loss, be attained. At the "beginning,
he held bonds or coupons of the, United States issued as
indemnity to Texas. At the end, he held registered bonds
of the United States in their place.. And he held both for
Hardenberg5 subject to the same equities. The net result of
the transaction to Htardenberg was the putting of the debt in
a shape to bear interest. If the coin received fbr the indemnity bonds exceeded the amount invested in the 5-20 bonds
deposited in their stead, he may have also gained that excess.

TEXAS V. HARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In this view of the case, it is not important to inquire
whether the delivery of the coin check to IHa.rdenberg took
place before or after the service of process. That transaction was correctly described as "a payment in form," the
proceeds having been, in fact, withheld. It was not designed, on the part of the Secretary of the Treasury, to
defeat the legal proceedings already commenced by filing
the bill and issuing the subpconas in the cause. We will not
presume that any one else entertained such a design. Certainly no such effect, if designed, can be accomplished
through the aid of a court of equity. We are -obliged, therefore, to say that the delivery of the coin check to the agent
of Hardenberg was not payment. There was, indeed, no
real payment at all. There was a transaction beginning
with the delivery of the coin check, and ending with the
substitution of the 5-20 bonds in place of the indemnity
bonds, which was to be perfected into actual payment by
the delivery to Hardenberg of the substituted bonds whenever this could be safely done. During the progress of this
transaction, process in this suit was served on Hardenberg.
No real payment, therefore, was made before service of
process.
Our conclusion on this part of the case is, that the socalled payment on the 16th of February, 1867, did not affect
the equities of the complainant, except by transferring them
from the indemnity bonds to the 5-20 bonds substituted in
their place, so far as may be necessary to satisfy to the complainant the amount then due upon the former.
This conclusion leaves but one question for consideration,
namely, whether Hardenberg, at the time he-purchased the
bonds, had notice of the equity of the State of Texas? This
question was not concluded by the decree, but it was fully
considered by the court upon the fbrmer argument, and our,
conclusion was stated in the opinion then delivered, that
Hardenberg, as well as the other purchasers of indemnity
bonds about the same time, was affected by such notice.
We will not restate what we then said. It is only necessary

Dec. 1869.]

THE

SCHOOLS V. RISLEY.
Syllabus.

to say that we have reconsidered the grounds of that decision, and are still satisfied with it.
It follows that, upon the whole case, our decree must be
for the complainant as to the bonds claimed by llardenberg.
STRONG and BRADLEY, JJ., bad not yet taken their
seats when this case was adjudged.

THE

SCHOOLS v. RSLEY.

1. Calls for the Mississippi River in deeds or conveyances from one private
individual to another private individual for lots in-St. Louis do not
give or create riparian rights in the grantees.
2. The eastern boundary of the corporation of'St. Louis of 1809, and the
eastern' line of the out-boundary of December 8, 1840, both extend to
the middle of the main chaniel of the Mississippi River.
8. A street or tow-path or passway or other open space permanently established for public use between the river and the most easte~n row of lots
or blocks in the former town of St. Louis,.when it was first laid out, or,
established, or founded, would prevent the owners of such lots or blocks
from being riparian proprietors of the land between such lots or blocks
and the-river. But this would not be true of a passage-way or tow-path
kept up at the risk and charge of the proprietors of thQ lots, and following the changes of the river as it receded or encroached, and if the inclosure of the proprietor was advanced or set in with such recession or
encroachment.
4. The act of June 13, 1812, reserving certain lands for the benefit of the
public schools of St. Louis, does not reserve lands made by accretion to
lots on the river which were inhabited, cultivated, and possessed by
persons at the time of the cession of December, 1803, and till the already
mentioned act of June 13, 1812.
5. A concession which would have effect to bind a person when claiming
under it and when it relates to one. piece of property, has no efftct when
the person does not claim under it and when it relates to another.
6. Where the instructions given to the jury are sufficient to present the
whole controversy to their consideration, and they are framed in clear
and unambiguous terms, it is no cause for the reversal of a judgment to
show that one or more of the prayers'for instruction presented by the
losing party and not given by the court were correct in the abstract.
7. The map known as Chouteau's map in the office of the record of land
titles at St. Louis is not evidence conclusive upon questions of the extent
of lots in that town. But it may go to a jury with other evidence.

