Dec. 1870.]

JONES V.

ANDREWS.

Syllabus.

in any other way. The sale in question not only contravened
the policy and spirit of the statute, but violated its positive
provisions.
It appearing, then, that by the treaty and law in force at
the date of the deed, Victoria Smith had no capacity to
alienate her land, and the authority to sell being vested in
the Secretary of the Interior, and there being no evidence
that this officer ever authorized th6 sale, or in any manner
consented to it, it follows that the sale was void, and that
the deed conveys no title to the purchaser.
It is hardly necessary to say that a joint resolution passed
nearly two years after this transaction, removing the restriction on alienation, cannot relate back and give validity
to a conveyance which, when executed, was void, nor have
we any reason to suppose that Congress contemplated that
any such effect would be claimed for its legislation on the
subject.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

JONES V. ANDREWS.
1. Allegation of citizenship is sufficiently made when it appears fairly, and
in such a way as to leave no room for reasonable doubt, from the bill
or declaration, of what States the respective parties are citizens.
2. By the Judiciary Act of 1789, in a case whcrxe jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court depended on citizenship, every defendant must have resided, or
been served with process, in the district where the suit was brought;
but by the act of 1839 this is not necessary: a non-resident defendant
may either voluntarily appear, or, if not a necessary party, his appe .rance may be dispensed with.

3. Appearing by counsel and moving to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction and also for want of equity, is a waiver of a non-resident's
privilege, and amounts to a voluntary appearance.

4. A bill for injunction to restrain proceedings of garnishment against the
complainant's property instituted in the Circuit Court, and also praying

the benefit of a set-off against the garnishing creditor's deiland, is not
an original suit, but is a defensive or supplementary suit, in which the
jurisdiction of the court does not depend on the citizenship of the parties, but on the cognizance of the original case.

JONES V. ANDREWS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Tennessee; the case being thus:
The Judiciary Act of 1789* gives the Circuit Courts jurisdiction where the suit is between a citizen of the State where
the suit is brought and a citizen of another State; and enacts
that no civil suit shall be brought in them against an inhabitant of the United States by original process in any other
district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which
he may be found at the time of serving the writ.
By the act of February 28, 1839,t it is, however, enacted

"That where in any suit in law or equity, commenced in any
court of the United States, there shall be several defendants,
any one or more of whom shall not be inhabitants of, or found
within, the district where the suit is brought, or shall not voluntarily appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the court to enter.
tain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication of
such suit between the parties who may be properly before it;
but the judgment or decree rendered therein, shall not conclude
or prejudice other parties not regularly served with process or
not voluntarily appearing to'answer," &e.
These provisions as to jurisdiction being in force, one
Joseph J. Andrews, owner of a hotel in Memphis, leased it
for five years, from 1st of January, 1859, to P' Reed and
H. W. Bryson; these last giving their notes for the amount
of the rent. After Reed and Bryson had. possession for
some time, they sub-let it to a certain Stephen M. Jones, at
the same rent which they had paid, and took his notes to
themselves for the same sum that they were bound to pay
Andrews by their own. The troubles of the rebellion
coming on, matters got disarranged. Jones, according to his
own account, having left Memphis, temporarily got shut out
of the town by the Federal army, and during this enforced
absence was dispossessed of the hotel and greatly injured
by Andrews, who seized and sold very valuable personal
property of his left on the premises. However these facts
*See.

11.

t See. 1, 5 Stat. at Large, 321-2.

Dec. 1870.]

JONES

v.

ANDREWS.

Statement of the case.

(which Andrews denied) might have been, it was admitted
that the rent not being long paid in form, Andrews sued
Reed and Bryson on their notes given to him, and got judgment by default. On this judgment so got, he sued out a
writ of garnishment fbr the professed purpose of seizing in
their hands the notes of Jones. Hereupon Jones filed a bill
in the same court, the court below, alleging that Reed and
Brysoni had transferred his notes.(Jones's), given to them for
the sub-lease, to Andrews in payment of their own notes to
him for the lease in chief; that Andrews had thus no claim
against Reed and Bryson when he sued them; that the
judgment recovered by him against them was by collusion,
and was contrived for the purpose of garnisheeing his,
Jones's, nbtes, pretended to be in their hands, and that all
this was done to avoid on the part of Andrews a direct
suit against him, the complainant, Jones, by reason of the
fact that as against Andrews, he, the complainant, Jones,
had a good defence to the notes and a set-off (on account of
the seizure and sale of his furniture, and expulsion of him
from the premises), that would largely exceed the amount
of the notes. His bill accordingly prayed for an injuncion
against the garnishee proceedings, for the delivery up of
his notes, and for the establishment of his set-off against
Andrews.
The suit was entitled at the beginning,
"Stephen M. Jones, citizen and resident of Richmond
County, Georgia,
VS.
Joseph Andrews, citizen and resident of City and County and
State of New York; P. Reed and I1. W. Bryson, both citizsns
and residents of Shelby County, Tennessee."
And the prayer of the bill began thus:
"The premises considered, complainant prays that Joseph
Andrews, a resident and citizen of the city, county, and State oj
New York, and the said Reed and Bryson, both of whom are resi.
dents of Shelby County, in the State of Tennessee, be made parties
defbndant, by due process and publication," &c.

JoNES V. ANDREWS.

,[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

Andrews (the resident of Ncw York) was not served with
process; but, as the record stated,
"eComes and moves the court here to dismiss the bill of the
plaintiff for want of jurisdiction, apparent on the face of it)"
and for causes for such motion showed (among others),
(1.) The bill does not aver the citizenship of the plaintiff, nor
does it show such facts in regard to the citizenship or residence
of the defbndant as gives the court jurisdiction.
(2.) The plaintiff shows by his bill that he has an adequate
remedy at law.
The court below dismissed the bill for want ofjurisdiction
over the parties, as well as for want of equitable jurisdiction
over the subject-matter of the bill; but without prejudice to
the right of the complainant to institute proper proceedings
to assert his rights. And from the decree of dismissal, this
writ was taken.

Messrs. Albert _Pike and R. W. Johnson, in support of the
action of the court below, in dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction over the parties, contended on this point:
1st. That the cit;zensbip of the parties was not sufficiently
alleged in the bill. That a mere incidental and sidewise
mention of citizenship in a caption of the bill-the only
presentation of citizenship of all the parties here-was no
averment or allegation of citizenship; that it could not be
regarded as traversable, or an allegation for the falseness of
which the party thus incidentally mentioning it would be
responsible.
2d. That, if sufficiently alleged, the court had no jurisdiction over Andrews, the principal defendant, who was a citizen of New York, and not a citizen of Tennessee, where
the suit was brought. That under the Judiciary Act of
1789, it was certain that if there were more than one plaintiff, or more than one defendant, the Circuit Court could
not take jurisdiction unless each of the parties was competent to sue or liable to be sued there; and that the act of
February 28, 1889, wrought no change in the jurisdiction of

Dec. 1870.]

JONES V. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the court.

the court, as respects the character of parties; that it only
obviated the difficulties arising from inability to join or serve
those, of several defendants, who might not reside or be
found within the district, or should not choose voluntarily
to appear.
41'. P. Phillips, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
On the question of jurisdiction over the parties, the appellees contend, 1st. That the citizenship of the parties was not
sufficiently alleged in' the bill. 2d. That, if sufficiently alleged, the court had no jurisdiction over Andrews, the principal defendant, who was a citizen of New York, and not a
citizen of Tennessee, where the suit was brought.
Although the allegation of citizenship is not made in precise and technical form, we consider it sufficiently explicit
to sustain the jurisdiction of the court, if the citizenship
disclosed by the allegation does, not displace that jurisdiction. It is more explicit than the allegation in the case of
Express Company v. Kountze Brothers,* which was sustained
by the court. All that is necessary is, that it fairly appear
by the bill of what States the respective parties are citizens.
In this case the form of the allegations leaves no room for
reasonable doubt.
The other exception, that Andrews, the principal defendant, was not a citizen of the State where the suit was brought,
is entitled to more weight. Though the Constitution declares that the judicial power of the Federal government shall
extend to controversies between citizens of different States,
which would embrace the case before us (the plaintiff being
a citizen of Georgia, and Andrews a citizen of .New York),
yet Congress has not established any court, except the Circuit Court, to take cognizance of such cases; and, by the
Judiciary Act of 1789, which establishes that court, Congress
only invested it with jurisdiction of cases where the suit is
* 8 Wallace, 842.

JONES V. ANDREWS.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought, and
a citizen of another State,* and moreover declared that no
civil suit should be brought before said court against an inhabitant of the United States, by any original process, in
any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or
in which he shall be found at the time of serving the writ.
The case is certainly not within the purview of this statute.
The suit is brought in West Tennessee, and neither Jones,
the complainant, nor Andrews, the defendant, is a citizen
of that State. Besides, the suit is brought against Andrews
in a district of which he is not an inhabitant, and in which
he was not found at the time of serving the writ. Under
the act of 1789, and the ruling of the early cases, the court
would, primd facie, be without jurisdiction. According to
those cases the plaintiff, or each of the plaintiffs, if more
than one, must be able to sue each of the defendants, if
more than one.
But the act of February 28, 1839, by implication, conrers
jurisdiction over non-residents of the district where the suit
is brought, if they voluntarily appear therein. The suit can
proceed against them if they voluntarily appear, or without
them if they are not necessary parties. If, however, they
are necessary parties, and do not voluntarily appear, the
difficulty remains the same as before the act of 1839 was
passed.t In this case Andrews was a necessary party, and
he was not a resident of the district, and was not served with
process, but he did voluntarily appear. It is true that as
soon as he appeared, he moved a dismissal of the bill on two
grounds, (1.) That it did not show such facts in regard to
the citizenship or residence of the defendants as to give
the court jurisdiction. (2.) That it contained no equity.
Whether, if he had made the motion on the first ground
alone he would have waived his personal exemption, it is
not necessary to decide. His moving to dismiss for want of
equity was clearly a waiver; and he was properly required
to answer the bill. After this the question of jurisdiction

-

11.

t" Tobin v, Walkinshaw, I McAllister. 26.

Dec. 1870.]

JONES V. ANDREWS.
Opinion of the court.

over the person was at an end, and the decree of the Circuit
Court, dismissing the hill for want of jurisdiction, must be
reversed.
But the case is stronger than this. The jurisdiction of
the court did not depend on the residence or citizenship of
the parties. The suit is, in its nature, not an original but a
defensive or supplementary suit, like a cross-bill, or a bill
filed to enjoin a judgment of the same court. The bill is
filed for an injunction against the garnishee proceedings
under the suit at law for the delivery up of the complainant's notes, and fbr the establishment of his set-off against
Andrews. This is, in substance, its character, and if the
facts charged furnish a sufficient ground of equity fbr the
relief asked, as to which the court refrains from expressing
any.opinion, the complrainant had a right to file it against
the defendants, and the court lad a right to take cognizance
of it as a defensive or supplementary proceeding, growing
.out of, and having direct reference to, the proceedings of
the defendants in the same court against him. The case, in
this respect, as before said, is analogous to that of a crossbill or bill of review, or a bill for injunction against a judgment at law in the same court, of which the court has jurisdiction irrespective of the residence of the parties.* As to
bills for injunction against judgments at law rendered in the.
same court, Justice Stbry, in Dunlap v. Stetson, says: "I
.believe the general, if not universal, practice has been, to
consider bills of injunction upon judgments in the Circuit
Courts of the United States, not as original, but as auxiliary
and dependent suits, and properly sustainable in that court
which gave the original judgment, and has it completely
under its control. The court itself possesses a power over
its own judgments by staying execution thereon; and it
would be very inconvenient if it did not possess the means
of rendering such further redress, as equity and good conscience required."
Logan v. Patrick, 5 Cranch, 288; Simms v. Githrie, 9 Id. 25; Clarke
v. Mathewson, 12 Peters, 164; Dunlap v. Stetson, 4 Mason, 849.

THE FARRAGUT.

(Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

Let the decree of the Circuit Court be REVERSED, and the
cause remitted for further proceedings, each party to pay
DECREE ACCORDINGLY
his own costs on this appeal.

THE FARRAGUT.
The usually obligatory rule of navigation, which requires a special look-out,
does not apply to a case where the collision or loss could not have been
guarded against by a look-oat, and where it is clear that the absence of
a look-out had nothing to do in causing it.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of Illinois.
Clark libelled the steamer Farragut for causing the destruction of the canal-boat Ajax and her cargo on the 8th
of March, 1866. The Buckeye Mutual Insurance Company
having paid Clark $1500 insurance on the canal-boat, came
in
by petition, and were made parties libellant, and subrogated
to Clark's rights in the cause to the amount thus paid.
The principal charges of the libel were, that the steamer
Farragut, being engaged in running between Beardstown,
Illinois, and St. Louis, Missouri, on the Illinois and Mississippi Rivers, on the 7th of March, 1866, took the canal-boat
Ajax, loaded with wheat, corn, and oats, in tow at Beardstown; that the owner or master of the Farragut contracted
to tow the Ajax safely to St. Louis and return for $130, and
caused it to be lashed to the side of the steamer, and proceeded safely down the Illinois River until about four o'clock
in the morning of the 8th of March, when, in attempting to
pass through the railroad bridge at Meredosia, the steamer
was so carelessly and negligently managed that she caused
the Ajax to come in contact with the pier of the bridge,
whereby boat and cargo sank and became a total loss.
The answer alleged that the canal-boat was unsound and
rotten; that the only contract between the parties was a
verbal contract to tow the Ajax. to St. Louis for $65, made

