Dec. 1869.]

DEmiN'G'S A PPE4L.
Statement of the case.

libellant shows she was, when the Columbia was only one
hundred yards from pier No. 4. It seemsto be satisfactorily
established, therefore, that the Columbia was the followingo
vessel. Of course the fault of the collision was hers. She
had two courses before her, either of which would have
avoided the disaster. Had she put farther out from her
pier, where she had clear water, before heading down the
river, or if, after heading down, she had ported her helm, as
the regulations required, instead of starboarding, or even if
she had stopped when she, saw danger of collision, she would
have passed astern of the propellerand. no injury would have
been done. By so doing she wobld have pursued her most
direct course out to sea. But she did neither. She made
no attempt to slacken her speed'when the danger became
imminent, and by starboarding she precipitated herself
directly upon the libellant's vessel.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED, WITH INTEREST
AND COSTS.

DEMING'S APPEAL.

Motion to reinstate a supposed legal tender case denied on the ground
chiefly of laches; notwithstanding consent of the other side, the
United States.
LATHAM and Deming being entitled, each of them, to
recov.er a certain sum of money from the United States for
work done prior to the act of February 25th, 1862, known
as the first of the." Legal Tender Acts," appealed, after the
passage of the acts, to the Treasury for payment. They
demanded coin, but were offered and accepted paper; "protesting," when receiving the paper, against such miode of
payment. They then brought, each of them, a suit in the
Court of Claims against the government to recover the
difference in value between the coin Which t-hey had asked
for and the paper which they accepted. The Court of
Claims decided against them, and they both appealed to

DEMING'S APPEAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

this court. The cases were supposed to involve the question
of the constitutional validity of the paper circulation issued
by the United States under the acts of Congress named, and
known as legal tender notes. And as Mr. Hoar, then AttorneyGeneral, had asked for the argument of them in order expressly that the question adjudged against the notes in
ITepbarn v. Griswold* might he reconsidered, the argument
of them both was a inatter-t6 which pub)lic and professional
attention was largely directed.
On the 1st of April last, the argument was fixd for the
11th of that month. When the 11th came, the hearing,
owing to the engagement elsewhere of the appellants' couusel, was adjourned till the 18th, and on the 18th, another
case being then on, till the 20th. On the 20th, Wednesday,
Mr. Chatfield, of New York, counsel for Latham, and Mr.
Merryman, of Washington, D. C., counsel for Demitig, appeared, and "feeling no desire," as they stated in a paper
filed and signed by them, "to trouble this court any further
with the consideration of the cases, took the occasion to
withdraw them from the docket, and respectfully asked that
they might he dismissed." Mr. Hoar, who stated that he.
had come to the court all ready to argue the cases, opposed
the dismissal. But the court, after a short conference,
decided, unanimously, that an appellant had the right to
withdraw his own suit, and the appeals were accordingly
dismissed. The Chief Justice immediately afterwards, on
that Wednesday, 20th, announced that the court would not
hear arguments after the following-Tuesday (the 26th) ; that
motions for the only Friday (regular motion day) remaining
would be heard on that Tuesday, and, that the court would
adjourn on Saturday the 30th. All the proceedings were
published under the ordinary head of " The Courts," in the
Washington and some other newspapers of the next (lay.
On Tuesday, the 26th, the court adjourned till the 30th, and
then it met on the 30th, delivered opinions and adjourned
till Monday, October 31st.
8 Wallace, 603.

Dec. 1869.]

DEMING:S APPEAL.
Statement of the case.

On the 5th or May, the mandate issued to the Court of
Claims to carry the judgment into execution.
Tie court having met again on Monday, 31st of October,
Mr. Lander, new counsel in the matter', now, Friday, the
4th November, stated his desire to appear as counsel for the
purpose of moving to reinstate Deming's appeals, and asked
leave to appear for that purpose. The court held the motion under advisement until Monday, 7th. On that Monday
it gave him leave to appear; and having appeared, lie immediately moved the reinstatement. Mr. Merryman, the fbrmer
counsel, by note to Mr. Deming filed in the case, expressing
his unwillingness, " under the peculiar circumstances of the
case, to remain counsel any longer in the matter," suggesting the employment of Mr. Lander' and withdrawing personally from the case.
The ground of the motion now made by Mr. Lander to
reinstate was an affidavit cx parte by Deming to the effect
that his fbrmer counsel, Mr. Merryman, h ad bee) ill for
some time prior to the already mentioned 20th April; that
he went to court on that day in order to argue the case, but
was met by Latham and persuaded by him to sign the mtion to dismiss ; that Latham had a power of attorney from
him, Deming, to sell and assigni his (Deming's) claim, and
iniformed Mr. Merryman that rhis own (Latham's) counsel
had resolved to dismiss that claim, and desired Deming's to
be also dismissed, " saying that lie had made such arrangements as would secure a successful prosecution of the said
two claims in Congress," and that Deming's claim would
certainly be paid; that Mr. Merryman not being able to see
him (Deming), and believing that Latham friom his supposed
relations with the said claim of Deming also represented
his wishes ti the matter, signed the motion tbr disnissal
that while it was true that a power had been given to Latham
to sell and assign the claim, yet ' that the purpose for which
the same was given had fitiled," and that Latham had no
right o " dictate" as to the appeal then pending, and that
the order of dismissal was made without the knowledge or
consent of the affiant.

DEMING's APPEAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The affidavit further stated that the afflant was informed
of the dismissal "soon thereafter" by his attorney, who upon
hearing the true state of facts and the wishes of the affiant
to have a decision of this court on the case, made application
to the then Attorney-General, Mr. Hoar, for his consent to
an application to rescind the order of dismissal, which consent was obtained upon the proviso that the cause could then
be argued, but that as that was not practicable, by reason of
the close approach of the adjournment of the court for the
summer, the motion had been necessarily postponed till now.
The consent of the now Attorney-General, Mr. Akerman,
to the restoration was given by him in person, and also by
writing filed.

No depositions of Mr. Merryman, or of Latham, or of -Deming,
were taken, nor was the power of attorneyfrom Deming to Latham
produced, or evidence given that it had been inquiredfor.
Mr. Lander, in support of his motion, adverting to the questionable power of an attorney to dismiss in this way, under
any circumstances, and to the admitted power which every
court had over its own proceedings during the term, relied
on the facts set forth in the affidavit; and the fact (obvious
as he conceived by the minutes of the court), that Deming
was guilty of no laches; not a week having passed between
.thefiismissal (on the 20th), unknown to him until some time
afterwards, and the actual adjourninent; the adjournment for
business purposes (on the 26th), and he having proceeded
at this the adjourned session at the very earliest moment
practicable; Fridays being the only regular or proper motion days.
Even if there had been laches, the consent of the AttorneyGeneral to restore, given personally and by writing, cured
them. The party interested to set up laches, if there was
any, admitted that there was none; that there had been a
mistake. But there were no laches. On the contrary,
Deming had been as prompt as possible.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made o'i behalf' of'D.eiifig to reinstate

Dec. 1869.]

DEMING'S APPEAL.

Opinion of the court.

this case upon the calendar. The suit was originally instituted in the Court of Claims. A judgment was rendered in
favor of the United States, and the -plaintiff broughb the
case into this court by appeal. That cae and the case of
0. B. and 0. S. Latham v. The United -States, also brought
into this court by appeal from the judgment of the Court of
Claims, were supposed to-involve the qr-estibn of the constitutional validity of the paper circulation issued by tfe United
States, known as legal tender notes. On the 1st of April,
during this term, both these cases were set for argument on
the 11th of that month. On that day the argument was
postponed until the 18th of April. The hearing was further
postponed to the 20th of April. On .that day the counsel
for the Lathams and the counsel of Deming united in a
written motion that both appeals should be dismissed.
The court recognizing the right of the counsel to have
this done, thereupon dismissed the appeals. No reason was
given for this step, and no explanation was made by either
counsel, except the statement that they did not wish further
to trouble the court in relation to the cases. The court continued to sit -until the 30th of April. The long vacation
then commenced. No motion was made prior to that time
by Deming, to set aside the dismissal of his appeal. - On the
5th of May the mandate of this court was sent to the Ciurt
of Claims to carry the judgment into execution. This motion was filed on the 7th of November, instant. It appears
by the affidavit of Deming that he was aware of the dismissal very shortly after the order was made. This must
necessarily have been so. It was announced in the proceedings of the court published the next day. Nothing is
produced from his counsel who made the motion. Deming
states in his affidavit, that the counsel acted without, his
knowledge or consent. Granting this to be so, his silence
after the facts came to his knowledge, must be held to
amount to acquiescence and ratification. The dismissal of
the appeal left the judgment of the Court of Claims in favor
of the United States in full forde. They can sustain no

256

NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

prejudice by the overruling of this motion. We therefore
lay out of view, as an element to be considered, the consent
of the Attorney-General that the order of dismissal shall be
rescinded.
The motion is addressed to the discretion of the court.
Under the circumstances, we are all of the opinion that it
ought to be
DENIED.

NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.
The appellee filed his petition in the Circuit Court of the United States
averring that he was the holder of a large amount of bonds and coupons,
secured by mortgage executed by the appellant. He prayed for executory process. Execution was awarded, and the appellant was ordered
to pay the amount of said bonds and coupons.
The appellant failing to pay on demand, the railroad and its appurtenances
were sold by the marshal, and the appellee became the purchaser.
The appellant then filed his petition in the said court, in the nature of an
audit2 quereld-averring that the award of execution had been made
without notice; that the executory process, as recognized by the practice of Louisiana, could not be enforced in the courts of the United
States; and that the appellee's claim could only be enforced on the
equity side of the court.
The record showed the following entry:
"The court having duly considered the 'petition and exhibits submitted by
the petitioner in this cause, and being satisfied that the prayer thereof cannot

be granted, it is ordered and decreed that the said petition be dismissed with
costs.' Judgment rendered June 14th, 1869. Judgment signed June 18th,
1869.
E. H. DURELL, Judge."
On motion to dismiss the writ of error, held, that this was sufficiently formal
and that it was a final judgment to which a writ of error would lie.
ON motion

to dismiss writ of error.

The New Orleans, Opelousas, anId Great Western Railroad Company issued, on thd 1st April, 1859, two thousand
bonds, redeemable in 1889, for $1000 each, with interest,
payable semi-annually; and to secure the payments a mortgage was executed upon the road (eighty miles), together
with the depots and lands appertaining to them, &c.
On 23d -February, 1869, Charles Morgan filed his petition

