KIMBALL V.

THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

divorce suit against him was brought long after the publication of the slander and after Tappan had been sued for it;
and that for this purpose the record was admissible. But
this by no means establishes his right to bring before the
jury the entire merits of the divorce §uit, the (lepositions
taken in that suit which bear hardly upon Tappan, who was
no party to it, and the answer of Beardsley making charges
against Tappan, when the latter could make no reply to
them.
Upon this question the case of the Marine Insurance Co. v.
Hodgson,* Rutherford v. Geddes,t and Laybourn v. Crisp,t are
directly in point; and the authorities cited by Mr. Taylor in
his work on Evidence,§ fully sustain the proposition laid
down by him, that depositions in chancery can only be read
when the bill shows that the cause was against the same
parties, or those claiming in privity with them.
For this error the judgment of the Circuit Court is
REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL AWARDED.

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.
Under the proviso to the Act of March 3, 1867 (11 Stat. at Large, 192),
which act allows an importer to make additions to the value of goods
as given in the entry or invoice; and which proviso provides "that
under no cireumstanees shall the duty be assbssed upon an amount less than the
invoice or entered value, any law of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding ;"
and the act of the same day (1b. 199), which enacts that unmanufactured
sheep's wool above the value of 20 cents, shall pay an ad valorem duty
of 24 per cent., but if "of the value of 20 cents or less, at the place of exportation, shall be exempt from duty," the invoice and entered value
(which in this case was the actual cost), and not any lower market value
of the goods at the date and place of exportation, is the value upon

which the duty is to be assessed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for Massachusetts; the case
,being this:
6 Cranch, 206.
$ 4 Meeson and Welsby, 820.

t 4 Wallace, 220.
1418.

Dec. 1870.]

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

487

Statement of the case.

The fifth section of an act of March 8, 1857,* "reducing
the duties on importations and for other purposes," imposes
an ad valorem dut4 of 24 per cent. on unmanufactured wool,
but exempts from duty such wool (being sheep's) "of the
value of 20 cents per pound or less, at the place of exportation."
Another act of the same day, amendatbry of an act of
1846, allows the importer to make such addition in the entry
to the cost or value of the imports, given in the invoice, as
in his opinion may raise the same to the true market value
in the country whence exported. The collector is then to
have them appraised, and if the appraised value exceeds by
10 per cent. the value declared as above- on. entry, a duty
of 2.0 per cent. ail valorem, is to be added to the duty imposed
by law. And the act concludes:
" Provided, nevertheless, that under no circumstances shall the
duty be asseissed upon an amount less than the invoice or entered
value, any law of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding."
This enactment and this proviso being in force, Mr. Cobb,
then Secretary of the Treasury, made in September, 1857,
soon after the passage of them, a decision thus:
"In estimating the foreign value of wool, with reference to
its exemption from or liability to duty, the appraisers can determine such value independently of the invoice, by prices current
and other reliable means of information, of the value of the article in foreign markets, such as they employ in ascertaining the
foreign values of other staple articles of import."
In. this state of things, Kimball bought at Cape Town,
Africa, a quantity of wool of the sort above mentioned, at
10 pence sterling (somewhat more than 20 cents Federal
money) a pound. He did not, however, ship it at once, but
kept it on*hand at Cape Town. .Some months, afterwards,
that is to say in June, 1861, he shipped it to the United
States; the price of wool at the date of shipment having
11 Stat. at Large, 192, 199.

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

fallen to 8. pence per pound (less than 20 cents Federal
money). The wool, however, was invoiced in accordance
with the requirements of law, at its actual cost, 10 pence
sterling per pound, and was entered according to the invoice value, which, of course, made it dutiable at the rate
of 24 per cent. ad valorem.
The appraisers reported upon the iuvoice:
Value correet in English weight, April 25, 1861."

This report was in accordance with a custom prevailing
in their department to make invoices in this manner, in
which the price stated is high enough to,cover the market
value; and the duties, $15,651, were accordingly assessed
upon it at this value.
After the appraiser§ had made their report, and duties had
been estimated on the wool, hut before payment of them by
the importer, the collector requested the appraisers to make
a re-examination of this wool, and a foirmal appraisement of
Its value. The appraisers, in reply, declined to make any
appraisement of it at less than the invoice price, giving as
a reason that they could not do this by law"; but, at the collector's request, they made to him a statement,in writing,
which they expressly declared was not an official appraisement, in which they stated the market value of this wool in
the principal markets of the country from which it was exported, to have been at the time of its exportation, 8 pence
3 farthings per pound, less than 20 cents Federal money,
and a rate at which the wool would, of course, have been
duty free.
The decision of Mr. Cobb was not brought to the knowledge of the appraisers at t!ie time of theik appraisement of
this wool.
The importer having complied with all the technical and
formal requirements necessary to enable him to maintain in
action under the act of Congress, against the collector, for
the recovery of duties illegally exacted, brought the suit
below to recover these; it being agreed by the parties that
if, upon the case stated, the value of this wool, as far as the

Dec. 1870.]

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

489

Argument for the importer.

laws of the United States were concerned, could be considered as less than its invoice price, then judgment should be
for the importer; otherwise fbr the collector.
The court below gave judgment for-the collector, and the
importer brought the case here; the question, and the only
question, being whether, taking into consideration the language of the first statute of 1857, and also that of the proviso to the other act of the same day, the collector should
have allowed this wool tb be entered free, when the price
stated in the invoice was more than 20 cents, and 4s actual'
value was less.

Messrs. C. Cushing and W. E. Chandler, with a brief of Mr.
W. E. Ingalls, for the importer, plaintiff in error:
1. The statement in the invoice, of the cost of the wool,
was made as of course and in accordance with the law of
Congress, of which the importer is obliged to state in the
invoice the exact sum paid for the goods. But various other
acts of Congress would indicate that it was the intention
of that body that in determining Whether wool was free or
dutiable its actual value at the port and date of exportation
should govern.
The act of 1832* is as follows:
"Wdol unmanufactured, the value whereof at the place of exportation shall not exceed 8 cents per pound, shall be imported

free of duty."
That of 1857, under which this importation arQse, is to
the same effect.
A third, that of 1861,t is thus: it exempts"Wool unmanufactured, the value whereof at the last port or
place -from whence exported to the United States shall be 18
cents or under per pound."
This court, in Peaslee v. Sampson,j decide that the day of.
sailing is the date when the value is to be taken.
a4 Stat. at Large, 688.

t 12 Stat. at Large, 196.

$ 20 Howard, 571.

IKIMBALL

v.

THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sur:. Ct.

Argument for the importer.

2. Mr. Cobb's decision shows that the practice of the department under this very act was in harmony with this interpretation. Another decision, nct presented iy the case
as stated, was issued June 15th, 1857, thus:

"On a question submitted to the department, it is decided
that the time at which the value of wool at the vort of exportation is to be estimated with a view to its exemption from duty
under the tariff act of March 3d, 1857, is the date of exportation
from the foreign port for the United States, as provided by la~v
in reference to the appraisement of imports for the assessment
of duties."
Under these interpretations of the act by the Treasury
Department, this impo'rter acted, and the interpretation has
been sustained as a true one in the 2d circuit (by Smalley,
J.), in the case of Davison v. Draper.*
8. Is the intent of Congress, as expressed in the first act
of 1857, controlled by the proviso in the later act?
It being the rule in the construction of statutes, as declared by Lord Mansfield,t that all which relates to the same
subject must be taken to be one system and construed consistently-construed also, another well-known rule tells us,
ut res magis valeat quam pereat-no conflict is to be allowed
if it be possible to prevent a conflict. Now here no conflict
will exist if we interpret things under the guidance of these
rules, and reasonably.
The two statutes relate to entirely different matters. The
proviso is to the 2d statute, and operates only on the class of
cases which it embraces.
The first statute provides a way to determine whether an
article is free or dutiable. If it is found to be free when
tried by this test, then the proviso does not apply, for there
is no duty to be assessed. If, on the other hand, the wool
is found when tested by the Jirst statute to be dutiable, then
the last statute applies and says upon what that duty shall
be assessed.
Report, Concord, N. H., 1870, pp. 27.
Rex v. Loxdale, 1 Burrow, 447.

*Pamiphlet

Dec. 1870.]

KIMBALL V.

THE COLLECTOR.

441

Argument for the United States.

For instance, suppose this wool had been invoiced at 22
cents, and when examined its value at the port and period
of exportation had been found to be 21 cents. By this last
report it was dutiable, and then by the proviso the dutiable
value would be 22 cents, or the price stated in the invoice.
An opposite mode of interpretation involves us in great
difficulties.
First. If the proviso does control the pivious statute,
then it practically defeats 'its operation, for the intention of
Congress in the statute of 1857 is clear, as has been previously shown, that the value of the import shall govern.
The court must avoid, if possible, a construction which
makes Congress stultify itself.
Second. By holding that this proviso controls the previous
-statute you hold out an inducement to merchants to make
fraudulent sales to avoid the effect of such a construetion. If, for example, prices tall between the, date of purchase and the date of exportation so far as to exempt from
duty that which was charged with a heavy duty, the owner
will make a fictitious transfer at the lower price to some
friend, and the goods will be invoiced anew at the lower
price. The court must avoid a construction which makes
Congress guilty of legislation whose effect is to cause frauds
on the-revenue.
4. Every consideration of equity and justice is here upon
the side of the importer, and this should have great weight
when the law is doubtfal.
5. But if the proviso is irreconcilable with tne preceding
statute, the proviso it is which must give way, not the enactment. The enactment is the principal thing; the proviso subsiliary and adjectitious.*
Mr. Akerman, Attorney-General,and Mr. C. H. Hill,Assistant Attorney- General, contra:
1. It isnot well argued, as argued by opposing counsel,
that independently of the proviso, this wool should be assessed at its value -at the date when exported.
The language of the statute of 1857, exempting certain

KIMBALL V. TuE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

wool from duty, is almost identical with that of She statute
of 1832,* exempting from duty wool not exceeding in value
eight cents per pound. Under the statutes at that time in
force, goods imported from the country of their production
were appraised for the purpose of imposing duties at their
value in that country "at the time when purchased," and
this continued to be so until the statute of March 3d, 1851.t
By the statute of 1842,1 it was enacted "that in all cases
where there is or shall be imposed any ad valorem rate of
duty on any goods," &c., "imported, and in 'all cases where
the duty imposed shall by law be regulated by or directed to be
estimaltd or based upon the value of any specified quantity or
parcel of such goods," &c., "it shall be the duty of the collector,
to cause the adtual market value, or wholesale price thereof at the time when purchased in the principal
markets of tho country from which they shall -have been
imported1 . .
to be appraised, estimated, and ascertained," and th:3 value, With certain other charges specified,
is made "the true value at the port where the same may be
entered, pipon:which duties shall be assessed."
By the statute of 1857,§ it is enacted "that in all cases
where there is, or shall be imposed any ad valorem rate of duty
on any goods," &c., "imported into the United States, it shall
be 'the duty of the collector . . . to cause the actual
market value, or wholesale price thereof, at the period of the
exportation to the United States, in the principal markets of the
country from. which the same shall have been imported,
to be appraised, estimated, and ascertained," and
such value or pric'e, with certain other specified charges, is
made " the true value at the port Where the same may be
entered'upon which duties shall be assessed."
By this act, all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with its
prnovisions are repealed.
Thus the statute of 1857 only applies to the first class of
•

4 Stat. at'Large, 68s.

t- Chap. 38, 119 Stat at Large, 629; "Greely -v. Thompson, 10 Howard,
225.
Chap. 270, 16, 5 Star. at Larg6, 503.,
Chap. 88, ,1.

Dec. 1870.]

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.
Argument for the United States.

cases mentioned in the statute of 1842; namely, those cases
"where there is, or shall be imposed, any ad valorem rate of
duty," and omits all reference to the other class of cases;
namely, "those where the duty imposed shall by law be
regulated by, or directed to be regulated by, or based upon
the value of any specified quantity," &c., of the goods. This
omission is significant, and would seem to show that, as to
this latter class of cases (within which ours fhlls), the value
at the time when the goods were purchased is to be considered the true value at the port of importation, and not
the value at the time when they were exported.
2. But, however this may be, the invoice price must be
here regarded as conclusive evidence of the value.
Under the customs laws, the invoice is generally conclusive evidence of value as respects the importer, though not
as respects the government.
By the statute of 1823,* a true invoice,: containing a just
and faithful account of the cost of merchandise which has
been purchased, and supported by oath, is required when
goods are imported.
By section 17 of the tariff act of 1842,t a penalty of fifty
per cent. additional duty was imposed when the appraised
value exceeded by ten per cent. the invoice value; and it
was not until the statute of 18461 that the importer was
allowed "to make such addition in the entry to the cost of
the value given in the invoice as in his opinion may raise
the same to the true market value of such imports in the
principal markets of the country whence the importation
shall have been made: . .. . Provided, nevertheless, that
under no circumstances shall the duty be assessed upon an
amount less than the invoice value, any law of Congress to
the contrary notwithstanding."
This act was amended in certain respects immaterial to
the present discussion by the act of 1857, but the above
quoted proviso was re-enacted in the same language.
Chap. 21, 8 Stat. at Large, 727, et 8eq.
$ Chap. 74, 8, 9 lb. 43.

t 5 lb. 564.

]KIMBALL v. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup.
Ct.
[

Opinion of the court.

By our revenue law , therefore, the invoice is regarded,
not as a mere bill of parcels, but as a solemn statemert of
the importer, supported by oath. For a long time, an innocent difference between the invoice value and the true
value of imported goods, by which the latter exceeded the
formet- ten per cent., was made the occasion for imposing
a penalty of fifty per cent. additional duty, and the statutes.
which relieve the importer from this harsh burden expressly
provide that under no circumstances shall the duty be assessed upon an amount less than the invoice value:
There is no authority for the idea of the other side, of
making one appraisement for the purpose of determining if
merchandise be exempt from duty, and if it is found to bp
dutiable, then of making another appraisement for the purpose of determining the value upon which ad o.alorem duties
are to be assessed, and it would seem to follow that the invoice must be as binding in the one cqse as the other.
Revenue systems are largely artificial. The values in
reference to which duties are assessed are often arbitrary.
There is no hardship in enacting that particular imports of
such a value shall be duty free; provided, however, that
nothing less than what the party has deliberately sworn to
as their cost shall be taken to be such value. At all events
the hardship is no greater than it is in any case where the
invoice value exceeds the real value. But whether greater
or less, courts cannot remedy it.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Import duties, illegally exacted, if paid under written
protest "signed 'by the. claimant,' setting forth distinctly
and specifically the grounds of objection to the payment,
may be recovered back in an action of assumpsit against the
collector.*
Recent enactments have annexed cdrtain other conditions,
of a very important character, to the right of action in such,
cases, but it is not necessary to enter into those details as
5Stat. at Large, 727; The Assessor v. Osbornes, 9 Wallace, 671; Nichols
v. United States, 7 Id. 126; Philadelphia v. Collector, 6 Id. 731.

Dec. 1870.]

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

445

Opinion of the court.

none of the new provisions have any application in the case
before the court.*
Four hundred and ninety-one bales of wool were imported
in the month of June, 1861, into the port of Boston by the
plaintiff or.his intestate, and the agreed statement shows
that the wool was duly entered at that port for consumption.
Duties were assessed upon the same to the amount of fifteen
thousand six hundred and fifty-one dollars and eighty cents,
and the plaintiff or his intestate paid the same, having first
complied with all the formal conditions to enable him to
maintain the present action.
Wool unmanufactured, of the value of twenty cents per
pound or less at the port of exportation, was at that time
entitled to be admitteU to entry free of duty, but wool unmanufactured, "imported from abroad," of greater value
than twenty cents per pound at the port of exportation, was
subject to an ad valorem duty of twenty-four per cent., as imposed by the act reducing the duty on imports and for other
purposes.t
By the agreed statement it appears that the wool imported
in this case was shipped in the barque Vatella, which sailed
from Cape Town on the twenty-fifth of April prior to the
importation, but it also appears that the wool was purchased
by the shippers at that place several months before the
barqte sailed. They purchased it at ten pence sterling per
pound us stated in the invoice, and the parties agree that
the price given in the entry at the custom-house is the same
as that given in the invoice, and that both correspond with

the actual cost of the wool at.the place of exportation.
American ships bringing goods f!'omany foreign port into
the United States are required to have on board a manifest
signed by the master describing the goods and the vessel, and
giving,the name of the port where the goods were shipped,
and the name of the port to which they are consigned.1
On arriving within four leagues of our coast the master
13 Stat. at Large, 214.
1 Stat. at Large, 644.

11 Stat, at Large, 192, 194.

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of such ship is required, if the proper officer of the customs
comes on board, to produce such manifest to such officer for
his inspection, and he is also required, within twenty-four'
hours from the time the vessel arrives at a port of the United
States where an officer of the customs resides, to report that
fact to the collector or chi-ef-officer of the customs at that
port.*
Goods imported from any foreign port or place are required to be landed in open day, and the act of Congress
provides that such goods shall not be landed or delivered
from the ship without a permit from the collector and naval
officer, if any, for such unlading and delivery. Authority
to grant such a permit does not exist, if the goods are intended to be entered for consumption, until the duties are
paid or secured to be paid, and the duties are never paid
nor are they ever secured to be paid in such a case before
the importation is complete and the goods are entered at the
custom-house. Such an entry, that is, an entry for consumption, must be in writing, and must be made by the owner,
consignee, or agent, to the collector of the district, within
fifteen days from the time the master reports the arrival of
the vessel, and the person making the entry must also produce to the collector the original invoice or invoices, or other
documents received in lieu thereof, or concerning the same,
in the same state in which they were received, with the bills
of lading.
Examination of the entry, as presented by the owner,
coosignee, or agent, is usually made by the entry clerk, and
if found to be correct the collector proceeds to estimate the
duties "on the invoice value and quantity," and if the estimated
amount of the duties is paid or secured to be paid, as required
by law, the collector is then authorized to grant a permit
for the discharge and landing. of the cargo. Until those
acts are performed no one has any authority to grant a permit or to remove the hatches, but the inspector remains in
charge of the vessel.
* 1 Stat. at Large, 649.

Dec. 1870.]

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

447

Opinion of the court.

Import duties, it will be observed, ai'e estimated in the
first place, if they are ad valorem, on the invoice value and
quantity as shown in that document, unless additions are
made to the same by the owner, consignee, or agent, in the
entry at the custom-house, and in that state of the case the
duties. are estimated on the invoice value and quantity together with those additions to the same, but in either event
the duties are estimated at that stage of the proceedings
without any appraisal.
Evidently it must be so, as the estimated duties are required to be paid or to b'e secured to be paid before the
permit is granted to. rembve the hatches, and before the
goods are landed from the vessel.
Such duties so estimated may be paid at the time, or,
what is more usual, they may begsecured to be paid by depositing the amount in gold with the collector, subject to an
equitable adjustment when the duties are liquidated and the
correct amount of the same is ascertained by such subsequent proceedings as are prescribed by law for that purpose.
Subsequent proceedings are essential to the ends of justice, as computations based solely on the invoice value and
quantity will seldom prove to be correct, as the values expressed in the invoice may be less than the true market
value of such imports in the principal markets of the country
whence the importation was made, or articles imporlted may
have been omitted in the invoice, or articles contained in
the invoice may have been lost during the voyage, or the
actual quantities as ascertained by the weighers, gaugers; or
measurers may differ from those given in the invoice and
entry. Corrections of the kind are frequently necessary,
but they are never made until the goods are landed and appraised.
Collectors are required by law to cause the dutiable value
of imported goods subject to an ad radorem. rate or duty to be
appraised, estimated, and ascertained, and the provision is
that if the appraised value shall exceed by ten per centurn
the value so declared in the entry, the goods are subject to a
duty of twenty per cent. ad ralorem on such appraised value

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in addition to the rate imposed where no such under-valuation is shown.*
Penalties of the kind, however, may be avoided if the
under-valuation in the invoice is corrected in the entry at
the custom-house, as the same section provides that it shall
be lawful for the owner, consignee, or agent of imports
which have been actually purchased, or procured otherwise
than by purchase, on entry of the same to make such addition in the entry to the cost or value in the invoice as in his
opinion may raise the same to the true market value of such
imports in the principal markets of the country whence the
importation shall have been made.
Additions may be made to the cost or value of the goods
as given in the invoice to raise the same to the true market
value, but the additions, in order that they may have effect
to avoid the additional duty of twenty per cent., must be
made before or at the time of the entry, as no such corrections can be made afterwards, or, in other words, the additions, if any, must be made befbre the permit is granted and
they are not made
before the goods are landed, because if'
made to the
additions
the
are
pertbrmed
before those acts
cost or value given in the invoice would not become a part
of the dutiable value in estimating the duties prior to the
appraisal, and if the appraisers should report that the invoice value was correct the amount of the additions would
escape taxation altogether. Nothing remains to be done:
subsequent to the granti'ng of the permit and the landing of
the goods except such acts as are required by law to correct.
any errors in the invoice and to liquidate the duties, as the
express provision in the principal collection act is that all
the duties on. goods, wares, and merchandise shall be paid
or be secured to be paid before a permit shall be granted
for landing the same.t
Before the permit is granted, it is the duty of the owner,
consignee,-or-ugeut to present the invoice to the collector
and make the.entry in the form required by law, and there*1 Star. at Large, 673.

f11 Stat. at Large, 199.

Dec. 1870.].

]KIMBALL V. THE

COLLECTOR.

Opinion of the court.

upon the collector certifies the invoice and grants the permit
in due form for the discharge and landing of the cargo, first
designating the packages, at least one in ten, to be sent to
the public store, and marks the same on the entry, invoice,
and permit.*
Packages intended for examination by the appraisers are
usually sent to the public store for that purpose, but cumbrous articles may be examined on the wharf where they
were landed, and samples may, in certain cases, be used for
the same purpose instead of the packages from which they
were selected by the sampler.
: Pursuant to the usual practice the goods in this case were
entered for consumption according to the invoice value, to
wit, at ten pence sterling per pound, expressed in decimals,
which made the wool dutiable at the rate of twenty.four per
cent. ad valorem.
Tested by the facts of the case as given in the agreed
statement, it is clearly to be inferred that the preliminary
proceedings were correct; that the invoice was seasonably
presented to the collector; that the entry of the goods was
regularly made for consumption; that the duties were prop-

erly estimated on the iavoice value, and qul'ntity; that the
duties as thus estimated were duly paid or secured to be
-paid before the permit was granted; that the permit was
subsequently granted in due 'form for the landing of the
goods, and that one in ten of the packages was ordered to
the public store for the examination of the local appraisers.
Prior to that stage of the proceedings the appraisers have
no jurisdiction of the case, and they have no duty to perform in the premises.
Beyond: doubt, the collector may direct that all packages
shall be examined, but he is required to designate on the
invoice at least one package of the same, and. one package
at least of every ten packages of the importation, and the
direction is that he shall order the same to the public stores
to be opened, examined, and appraised. All those require*

Waring v. The Mayor, 8 Wallace, 119; Ien. Reg. 1857, 145.

.VOL. x.

29

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

merts having been fulfilled, the appraisers are furnished
with the original invoice which contains the marks of the
collector, designating the packages sent to the public stores
for their examination.
Briefly stated, their duty is to. appraise, estimate, and
ascertain the true market value of such imports in the principal markets of the country whence such importation was
made, and to report their doings to the collector. They
examined the packages sent to the public stores, and the
agreed statement shows that they reported upon the invoice
"value correct," in accordance with the prevailing custom
to mark invoices in that manner in cases where the price
given in the invoice was high enough to cover the market
value.
Complaint is made that the custom does not allow the appraisers to reduce the invoice value when it is greater than
the true market value, but the decisive answer to that complaintis, that the act of Congress authorizing the appraisal
of the importation expressly provides "that under no cir-

cumstances shall the -duty be assessed upon an amount less
than the invoice or entered value" of the importation.
Where the entered value is the same as the invoice value
the legal effect of the requirement is the same as it was in
the prior act which did not contain the words entered value,
but in cases where the owner, consignee, or agent makes
additions to the value expressed in the invoice to avoid the
penalty of twenty per cent., the words " entered value" have
a special application, and in those cases the duty cannot be
assessed upon an amount less than the entered value, which
includes the value expressed in the invoice and the additions
made thereto by the owner, consignee, or agent before or at
the time the goods were entered at the custom-house.
Ten pence sterling per pound was the actual cost of the
wool at the time it was purchased, and the price actually
paid fur the wool is the value expressed in'the invoice, and
the, same value is given in the entry made by the consignee,
and the agreed statement shows that the appraisers reported
that the invoice value was correct, and if the mattep had

Dec. 1870.]

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.

451

Opinion ofthe court.

stopped there the case would be too plain to admit of any
controversy, as it would show that every requirement of law
had been followed without the least departure, and that
nothing had been done to which the plaintiff or his intestate
objected at the time the act was performed, as he made the
entry and gave therein the value expressed in the invoice
as the true market value of the imports in the principal
markets of the country whence the importation was made.*
"Value correct," was the report of the appraisers when
they returned the invoice to the collector, and the duties
were liquidated and assessed upon that amount as the true
dutiable value of the goods, but before the duties were paid
by the consignee as liquidated, the collector requested the
appraisers to make a re-examination of the wool and "a
formal appraisement of its value," but they declined to make
any appraisement of it at less than the invoice price, giving
as a reason that they could not do so by law, evidently referring to the provision in the appraisement act that under
no circumstances shall the duty be assessed upon an amount
less than the invoice or entered value. At the collector's
request, however, they made a statement to him in writing,
"which they expressly declared was not an official appraisement, in which they stated" that the market value of the
wool at the time it was exported, in the principal markets
of the country where it was purchased, was eight pence and
three farthings per pohnd, at which rate the wool would
have been entitled to entry free of duty. Prices of wool had
declined at that port subsequent to the purchase in this case
and before the barque sailed, so that the wool might have
been purchased at the time it was exported at the reduced
price named by the appraisers.
Ad47'alorem duties were always estimated, prior to the act
of the-20th of April, 1818, by adding a prescribed percentage, including charges and commissions, to the actual cost of
the goods at the place where the same were purchased and.
exported, the actual cost being ascertained by the invoice.t
*11

Stat.'at Large, 199.

ta 1 Stat. at Large, 41, 673; 3 Id. 436.

KIMBALL

v. THE

COLLECTOR.

[S up. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Whenever, in the opinion of the collector, there was just
ground to suspect that goods subject to an ad valorem duty,
and imported into his district, had been invoiced below the
true value of the goods in their actual state of manufacture
at the place from which they were imported, 1the collector, by the act last cited; was authorized to direct that the
goods should be appraised in the manner prescribed in the
ninth section of that act, which was the first authority of the
kind conferred in the acts of Congress in cases where the
entry was accompanied by the invoice, as required by law.
Such duties were required to be estimated, by the act of the
first of March, 1823, by adding all charges except insurance
and a prescribed percentage to the actual cost of the goods
if the same were purchased, or by making the same additions to the actual value of the goods if they were procured
otherwise than by purchase, or by making the same additions to the appraised value of the goods if the same were
appraised, except in cases where the goods were subject to
a certain penalty, and the express provision was that the
rates of duties should be estimated on such aggregate
amount. Goods imported from foreign countries could not
be admitted to entry unless the invoice accompanied the
entry, nor unless the invoice was verified by oath, and
neither the act under consideration nor the first collection
act gave the collector or the appraisers any authority to
reduce the price or value of the goods as expressed in the
invoice.*
Dutiable values of imported goods, subject to an ad valorem
rate of duty, were required by the act of the thirtieth of
July, 1846, to be estimated and ascertained by appraisement, adding costs and charges as therein prescribed, but
the provision was that under no circumstances "shall the
duty be assessed upon an amount less than the invoice
value."t
Costs and charges, except insurance, were also required
to be added to the appraised value by the act of the third
3 Stat. at Large, 732.
9 Id, 43 ; Shelton et al. v. Austin, 1 Clifford, 389.

Dec. 1870.]

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.
Opinion of the court.

of March, 1851; but the act vested no authority either in
the collector or the appraisers to reduce the valuation of
the goods below the invoice or entered value, and no such
authority, applicable in this case, is found in any act of
Congress passed prior to the time when the entry before the
court'was made at the custom-house.*
On the contrary, the act of Congress under which the
appraisers acted in this case expressly provides, as before
explained, that under no circumstances shall the duty be
assessed upon an amount less than the invoice or entered
value, the substance of which provision has been in force
for a quarter of a century.t
Importers are required to make an entry of their importations, which should always be accompanied by the invoice,
duly verified by oath, and when the entry is made and the
permit granted the packages for appraisement are designated on the invoice by the collector who orders one in ten
of them to the public store for the purpose of appraisaL
Examination of the selected packages is then made by the
appraisers, who report their doings to the collector, and if
no appeal is taken from their appraisement, either to the
general appraisers or to the Secretary of the Tieasury, their
decision in the premises is final and conclusive as to the
dutiable value of the importation.1
Appraisers, it is said, are to appraise, estimate, and ascertain the true market value of such imports, whether of
greater or less value than that expressed in the invoice and
entry; but the decisive answer to that suggestion is that
their duties are regulated by the act of Congress under which
they act, and inasmuch as it is provided that the duties shall
not under any circumstances be assessed upon an amount
less than the invoice or entered value, it is clear that the
appraisers have no authority to make any such appraisement as that which they were requested to make by the collector. Redress for such a grievance, if it be one, must be
9 Stat. at Large, 630.
t 11 Id. 199.
: Belcher et al. v. Linn, 24 Howard, 621; Bartlett v. Kane, 16 Id. 272;
Rankin v. Hoyt, 4 Id. 327; Stairs v. Peaslee, 18 Id. 624.

454

THE

CLINTON BRIDGE..

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

sought in Congress, as Congress and not the courts possesses
the power to lay and co llect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, and to pass all laws Which shall be necessary and
proper to carry that power into execution.
Extended remarks respecting the case of .Rankin v. -Hoyt*
need not be made, as the statement of the fact shows that
the appraisers in that case added to the value expressed in
the invoice, and the decision was fbunded upon the. act of
the fourteenth of July, 1832, which did not contain the provision that the duties should not under any circumstances
be assessed upon an amount less than the invoice or entered
value, and consequently it is not an authority which controls the present case.
Comment upon the fifth section of the tariff act under
Which the goods were imported in this case may also be
omitted for reasons of a like character, as the section must
be construed in view of the proviso of the amendatory act
passed on the same day, which prohibits both the appraisers
and the collector from making any reduction in the invoice
or entered value in the assessment of ad valorem duties.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE

CLINTON BRIDGE.

1. An act of Congress enacting that a certain bridge, already built over a
river which divides two States, "shall be a lawful structure, and shall
be recognized and known as a post-route," means not only that the
bridge shall be a post-route, but also that, as built, with its abutments,
piers, superstructure draw, and height, it should have the sanction of

law, and be maintained'and used in that condition. This, although
the act was declared by its title to be simply an act declaring the bridge
"a~post-route."
2. A suit in chancery begun previously to the passage of the act, praying
injunction against building of the bridge as a nuisance, is abated by
such an act; though pleas and replication hdd been filed, proofs taken,
and the case ready for hearing.
8. The act is constitutional.
* 4 Howard, 327.

