THE FARRAGUT.

(Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

Let the decree of the Circuit Court be REVERSED, and the
cause remitted for further proceedings, each party to pay
DECREE ACCORDINGLY
his own costs on this appeal.

THE FARRAGUT.
The usually obligatory rule of navigation, which requires a special look-out,
does not apply to a case where the collision or loss could not have been
guarded against by a look-oat, and where it is clear that the absence of
a look-out had nothing to do in causing it.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District

of Illinois.
Clark libelled the steamer Farragut for causing the destruction of the canal-boat Ajax and her cargo on the 8th
of March, 1866. The Buckeye Mutual Insurance Company
having paid Clark $1500 insurance on the canal-boat, came
in
by petition, and were made parties libellant, and subrogated
to Clark's rights in the cause to the amount thus paid.
The principal charges of the libel were, that the steamer
Farragut, being engaged in running between Beardstown,
Illinois, and St. Louis, Missouri, on the Illinois and Mississippi Rivers, on the 7th of March, 1866, took the canal-boat
Ajax, loaded with wheat, corn, and oats, in tow at Beardstown; that the owner or master of the Farragut contracted
to tow the Ajax safely to St. Louis and return for $130, and
caused it to be lashed to the side of the steamer, and proceeded safely down the Illinois River until about four o'clock
in the morning of the 8th of March, when, in attempting to
pass through the railroad bridge at Meredosia, the steamer
was so carelessly and negligently managed that she caused
the Ajax to come in contact with the pier of the bridge,
whereby boat and cargo sank and became a total loss.
The answer alleged that the canal-boat was unsound and
rotten; that the only contract between the parties was a
verbal contract to tow the Ajax. to St. Louis for $65, made

Pe. 1870.]

TnE FARRAGUT.
Argument for the appellant.

with reference to the general usage on the Illinois and Mississippi Rivers, by which contracts for towing, in the absence
of special agreements, are contracts to tow safely, except the
usual dangers and hazards of river navigation, and do not
involve the liabilities of a common carrier. The answer
denied that the steamer was carelessly and negligently managed, or that the loss of the Ajax was attributable to the
unskilfulness, negligence, or fault of any person having
charge of her, and alleged that it was. due to the usual
dangers of river navigation; that the bridge in which the
loss occurred is located at a bend in the river, which there
changes its course from southeast to southwest; that this
bend rendered it difficult to pass the draw of the bridge at
any time without striking the eastern pier; that this difficulty was greatly enhanced at high water by a cross-current
which strikes it diagonally across the draw, and that at the
time of the loss complained of this current was at its worst;
that the captain of the steamer himself, one Ebaugh, who
was a skilful pilot of the river, took the helm on this occasion, and was steering the vessel when the accident occurred;
but that, by the strength of the diagonal current, she was
forced towards the piles protecting the east pier, with which
the canal-boat came into contact and was stove and sunk,
without any want of care or skill on the pa 't of the owner
or those in charge of the steamer. It was further alleged
that the said piles formerly yielded to pressure, so that a
sound boat rubbing against them received no serious damage
therefrom; but that, during the preceding winter, the piles
had been stiffened up with braces, so that when the unsound
and rotten timbers of the Ajax came in contact with them
they were crushed.
Both courts below were of opinion that the defence was
sustained by the evidence, and decreed against the libellant.
That party now brought the case here.
Mr. Laurence Proudfoot, for the appellant:
Captain Ebaugh was in the wheel-house, and acted in the
capacity of wheelsman and look-out. Now the law says that

TnFE

F-ARRAGUT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

there must be a man specially detailed, to have a trustworthy and constant look-out stationed at the part of the vessel

best adapted for that purpose, and whose whole business is to.
keep such look-out; that an omission in case of collision would
be primafacie evidence of fault; that the wheel-house is not
a proper place for such look-out, nor the hurricane-deck, and
that the captain of the watch is not such a look-out as is
required by law.*
These requirements of the law extend to all classes of
steamers and vessels, including especially those of steamers
engaged in towing.t
It is asserted by the steamer that, in order to recover, it
must be shown affirmatively by us (though the steamer violated the law in regard to a look-out) that the want of the
look-out was the cause of the collision. We look in vain in
any of the already quoted decisions for such a qualification
of the law. No such qualification can be found. Certainly,
we having made a primd facie case against the steamer, it
devolves on it to show by largely preponderating evidence,
that the neglect to have a look-out did not in the slightest
degree tend to the collision and loss.
The Ottawa,t one of the latest cases on this subject, goes
further in our favor. Clifford, J., there says, in giving the
court's opinion, what had been said many times before, as
follows:
Steamers are required to have constant and vigilant look-outs
* New York v. Rea, 18 Howard, 225; St. John v. Paine, 10 Id. 585;
Chamberlain v. Ward, 21 Id. 670; James Gray v. John Fraser, lb. 191 ;
Haney v. Ba'timore Packet Co., 23 Id. 287; New York and Baltimore
Trans. Co. v. Philadelphia and Savannah Steam Nav. Co., 22 Id. 471; The
Ottawa, 8 Wallace, 278.
T Sturgis v. Boyer, 24 Howard, 118, 120; Goslee ot al. v. Shute's Executor, 18 Id. 407; Culbertson v. Shaw et al., Ib. 687; New York v. Rea, 1b.
225; New York and Baltimore Trans. Co. v. Philadelphia and Savannah
Steam Nav. Co., 22 Id. 461 ; Fretz et al. v. Bull et al., 12 Id. 471 ; Pearce
v. Page, 24 Id. 228; Steamer New Philadelphia, I Black, 62, 74;, Wells V.
Steam N]avigation Co., 4 Selden, 875; Ashmore v. Penn. Trans. Co., 4
Dutcher, 180; Alexander v. Greene, 7 Hill, 533.
$ 8 Wallace, 273.

:Dec. 1870.]

THE FARRAGUT.
Opinion of the court.

stationed in proper places on the vessel, and they must be actually employed in the performance of the duty to which they are
assigned. Proper look-outs are competent persons other than
the master and helmsman, properly stationed foi" that purpose on
the forward part of the vessel.
After repeating the same idea several times, and citing
cases for each presentation of it, he says, in reference to
the particular case (where the question was, whether the
master, who was then engaged in navigating the vessel, was
a competent look-out):
It is clear that the propeller did not have any proper look-out.
And in reference to the cases cited:
We adhere to those decisions, without abatement or qualification.
If this is true, if the statement was correct that the court
would adhere, "without abatement or qualification," to the
decisions cited in that case, then the court decided that the
rule about look-outs was one so very important that they
would hold to it in all cases as a generial rule, and not regard
evidence to show that in the particular case the presence of
a special look-out would not have altered the result.
Mr. rumbull, contra,
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The District and Circuit Courts were both satisfied that
the evidence in the case fully supported the detence, and
this court concurs in that conclusion, unless the position
strenuously insisted on here by the appellants' counsel can
be maintained, to wit, that the absence or a special look-out
is evidence of negligence, which renders the.owners of the
steamer pr im.ficie liable.
It is undoubtedly true that the absence of a special lookout would, in many cases, perhaps in most cases, be regarded
as evidence of great negligence. The last rule prescribed
VOL. x.

22

THE F ARRAGUT.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

by Congress by the act of April 29, 1864,* declares that
"nothing in these rules shall exonerate any ship, or the
owner, or master, or crew thereof, from the consequences of
any neglect to carry lights or signals, or of any neglect to
keep a proper look-out," &c. ; thus intimating that "a proper
look-out" is one of the ordinary precautions which a careful
navigation involves. But it would be against all reason to
contepd that the master or owners of a vessel should be
made liable for the consequences of an accidenit by reason
of not having a special look-out where the collision or loss
could not have been guarded against by a look-out, or where
it is clear that the absence of a look-out had nothing to do
in causing it. Suppose that a sunken rock, dropped from a
cargo of quarried stone, and unknown to the navigators of
the channel, were the cause of the accident, could the presence of a look-out have the least tendency to guard against
it? A hundred such instances might be suggested where
the presence or absence of a look-out would have no influence whatever on the happening of the catastrophe. We
are not to shut our eyes and to accept blindly an artificial
rule which is to determine, in all cases, whether the navigator is liable to the charge of negligence in causing any
loss or damage that may happen. A look-out is only one
of the many precautions which a prudent navigator ought
to provide; but it is not indispensable where, from the circumstances of the case, a 16ok-out could not possibly be of
any 4ervice. The object of a look-out is to discover dangers
that a-re unknown, the advance of an approaching vessel,
the appearance of a light on the coast, the discovery of a
dangerous object, and many other things, the existence and
presence of which could not be so easily and quickly known
to the pilot as to a person whose sole business it was to
make and communicate such discoveries. The cases referred
to, taken' in connection with the particular circumstances of
each, cannot receive a different interpretation.
In the case before us no look-out could have been of any
* 18 Stat. at Large, 61.

Dec. 1870.]

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.

339

Syllabus.

possible advantage.

No look-out would have ventured, or

presumed, to interfere with the captain, who had the helm
at the time. It would probably have been rathier an interference and a hindrance to the safe management of the boat
for any third person in such an exigency to have diverted
his attention. The obstacle was there in plain sight. Its
position was better known to the captain than to any other
person. No look-out could have aided him in tile emergency. But, if a look-out were needed, we have the evidence of the mate that he was on the hurricane-de-ek watching the course of the steamer at the time; and, had it been
possible for any look-out to have been of any service, he
would have rendered it. Clark, the captain of the canalboat, was also on the watch as well as Nolte, the ship's carpenter, and one of the owners of the steamer. It is perfectly
.evident that the absence of a special look-out had uothing
at all to do with the happening of the accident, and therefore it can have nothing to do with fixing the liability of the
parties.
It is also evident that the loss was occasioned by the violence of the cross-current, which was due to the great height
of water prevailing at the time, and was therefore the result
of one of the ordinary dangers of river navigation.
DECREE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

MARBLE COMPANY V. RIPLEY.
1. Equity will enjoin one partner from violating the' rights of his copartner in partnership matters, although no dissolution of the partnership
be contemplated.
2. Where a person makes an entry on land owned by others jointly interested with him in working it, but which is held by these last subject to
a right of entry and possession in him, for fnilure or refusal by them
to fulfil certain conditions and stipulations about the products of the
land, which they have covenanted to fulfil, so that primd facie his
entry is a deforcement of the owners and an invasion of their rights

