Dec. 1870.1

TAPPAN V. BEARDSLEY.
Syllabus.

district attorney led to the necessity of a motion to the court
to amend the record, so as to make it appear thereon that
the proper steps had been taken in due time to secure av
appeal on the part of the government. The prayer for an
appeal in due time, although not granted then by the court,
secures this right, and no delay by the court in its allowance
can impair it. The order nune pro tune contains the allowance. It is true some considerable delay has taken place in
perfecting this appeal, but the court is of opinion that it has
been sufficiently accounted for from the facts and circumstances appearing on the face of the record. The governmient is obliged to trust the conduct of cases, in remote
parts of the country, to subordinate agents, and the distance
in the present instance is so great from the seat of government that a very considerable lapse of time is required to
communicate with the head of the departmeint. In such
cases some indulgence must be extended to the officers thus
engaged, and this difficulty of communication should be
taken into consideration in determining the question of
delay in conducting the legal proceediirgs of the government.
The want of a citation was mentioned on the argument as
another ground of dismissal, but the answer is, the appeal
was taken in open court at the term in which the judgment
was rendered. In such cases no citation is necessary.
MOTION DENIED,

TDAPPAN

v.

BEARDSLEY.

1. It seems that, to establish the fact that a certain suit was brought, or the
time of its comtnencement, the record of it may be used .against one who
was no party to it; but only so much as is necessary for that purpose is
admissible.
2. Depositions which are incorporated into such a record are not admissible
in another suit, where the witnesses are competbnt, and can be procured in the second suit.
8. The right and 'he opportunity in a person to cross-examine are essential
to the use of such depositions against him.

TAPPAN V. BEARDSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
4. Neither such depositions, nor the answer in chancery of the defendant,
can be read in evidence as proof of their contents, in another suit
against one who was neither party to the former suit nor privy to a
party.
IN

error to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of

New York; the case being this:
John Beardsley and Horace Beardsley, merchants of Norwalk, Huron County, Ohio, brought an action in the court
below against Lewis Tappan, of New York, for a libel.
. Tappan was the proprietor of what is now generally known
as a " Mercantile Agency," the purpose of which is to collect information of the standing, character, and credit of
merchants all over the country, and to communicate such
information for reward to the business houses who may need
it in their dealings with the former. And it was a communication made by Tappan to one of his customers concerning the plaintiffs, Beardsley & Co., that constituted the
alleged libel.
The substance of that communication was that Beardsley
& Co. had been sted, that J. Beardsley's wife was about to
sue him for a divorce and alimony, in consequence of which
he had put his property out of his hands, and that their store
would probably be closed at once if the suit was brought.
To a declaration setting this out as the foundation of the
action the defendant pleaded the general issue, and gave
notice under the practice in New York of special matter to
be offered in evidence. This special matter presented two
defences: 1st, an attempt to bring the publication of the
libellous words within the rule which protects privileged
communications; and 2d, an assertion of the truth of the
words published. This latter plea alone was the important
one in the case as finally here decided.
On the trial the plaintifts offered in evidence and proposed
to read the whole record of a suit for divorce, brought in the
name of John Beardsley's wife, against him, in Huron County,
Ohio; a suit, which it seemed had been commenced some
four or five months after the alleged publication of the libellous matter for which the suit below was brought, and some

*Dec.1870.]

TAPPAN V. BEARDSLEY.
Statement of the case.

time also after the commencement of the suit itself. The
petition of the wife in the record thus offered to be read,
alleged adultery. An answer of Beardsley (not sworn to)
followed, denying the adultery, and alleging that the suit
was not instituted by his wife or for her benefit, but that it
was instituted by Tappan himself and by his counsel (through
one Kennan, who, it was alleged, had been the secret informer and agent in Norwalk, of Tappan and his commercial agency) for the sole purpose of making good the slander
which Tappan had published against.Beardsley on thatsubject. With this petition and answer were the depositions
of several witnesses; most of the depositions tending to
show that Beardsley's wife was a woman of most violent,
jealous, and impracticable temper, partially insane, perhaps,
and, that there was no ground for her petition for divorce.
Finally, as part of the record, came the order of court dismissing the, petition.
The circumstances under which this dismissal was made,
were thus disclosed in one of he depositions certified with
the record in divorce, and offered with it:
"S. F. Taylor, the attorney for Mrs. Beardsley, moved a continuance of the cause on the'ground that some of his material
witnesses were not in attendance, and could not be found. The
motion was opposed by John Beardsley, and he then stated to
:the court, as also to Mr. Taylor, that all the witnesses named in
their subpcena, and particularly those Whom Mr. Taylor said
were absent, were then in court; that Beardsley said that he
had good reason to believe that the suit was not intended to be
brought to a hearing, and that at his own expense and trouble
he had procured the attendance of all Mrs. Beardsley's witnesses, to prevent a continuance.
" The court then overruled motion for continuance, and said
that if Mr. Taylor had no other reason for continuance, he must
proceed to a hearing. Whereupon Mr. Taylor abandoned the
suit, and it was ordered by the court to be discontinued."
Another of the depositions appended to this record in
divorce, and taken in that proceeding, was that of Mr. S. F.

TAPPAN

v. BEARDSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Taylor, the attorney for Mrs. Beardsley, above named, himself. It thus ran;
S. F. Taylor, of lawful age, being by me first duly sworn, as
hereinafter certified, deposes as follows:
Question. Have you ever seen the complainant?
Answer. I cannot answer if'it has any materialify in the case,
without revealing what belongs to me exclusively, as counsel for
complainant.
Question. I do not seek to draw out any confidential communications made to you as counsel; I simply Want to know
whether you have ever seen complainant?
Answer. I cannot answer without revealing such facts as might
lead to the inference of other facts, that belong to me as counsel.
Question. Do you refuse to answer the question, "Have you
ever seen the complainant ?"
Answer. I do, as her attorney.
Question. By whom were you retained as attorney for the
conplainant?
Answer. By the complainant, and by nobody else.
Question. Did she retain you in person, or by a third person?
Answer. I cannot answer that question without revealing facts
which I have no right to reveal, as counsel.
Question. Have you ever seen the complainant before or since,
or since the commencement of this suit?
Answer. I have seen her, or seen a person called Mrs. Beardsley.
Question. Where did you see her, and when?
Answer. I saw a lady that was called Mrs. Beardsley some
time ago, but cannot tell the time when.

Question. How long ago?
Answer. I think about two years ago.
Question. Did you speak to her?
Answer. I did not.
Question. Have you ever spoken to her?
Answer. I cannot say that I have.
Question. Do you now recollect to have ever seen her except
on the occasion above referred to?
Answer. I do not.
Question. Did you frame the bill in this case?

:Dec. 1870.]

TAPPAN

v. BEARDSLEY.

Statement of the case.

Answer. I did.
Question. Were you employed by her personally, or by some
other person for her as her agent ?
Answer. I cannot answer this question, in my opinion, without revealing facts that belong to me alone as counsel, and which
as an attorney I have no right to reveal.
Question. 1 do not ask you to reveal a single confidential communicati6n. I simply wish to know whether you are retained
by the complainant-in this case in person, or by some other
party having an interest therein ?
Answer. I have not seen the comnlainant in person, and I
know of no other person, and have heard of none other that
has any interest in this suit.
Question. Were you requested by any person to file the bill in
this case?
Answer. I was spoken to on that subject, and told that com'plainant wanted me to act as her attorney in this case. But I
was n evei *eouested to act in the matter for or on account of
any one else ?
Question. By whom were you spoken to?
Answer. From the course takeD in this examination, and from
the declarations of defendant, I do not believe I can answer it
without revealing facts that are my own property as counsel,
and that I have no right to reveal.
Question. You say you were spoken to to file a bill in this
case; was that request a verbal or a written one ?
Answer. It was verbal.
Question. Was the request made by a man or a woman?
Answer. It was a man.
Question. Where does he reside?
Answer. In Norwalk.
Question. What is his profession,?
Answer. I can'ans*er no question tending to show his identity without, in my opinion, revealing facts that I have no right
to reveal as attorney.
Question. Do you know whether the person who requested
you to file this bill is now or ever has been the reporter of Lewis
Tappan's Commercial Agency, or Cleveland's Commercial?
Answer. I do not know anything of either of these agencies.
Question. How do you know that the person was authorized
by the complainant to employ you to file a bill in this case?

TAMPAN

v.

BEARDSLEY.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

Answer. I have no positive knowledge that she did authorize
him.
Question. How then can you swear that you were retained by
the complainant?
Answer. I can only say from the facts that I have been retained by nobody else, except in doing an errand, as I supposed
that at my request the dates and circumstances necessary to file
the bill, and that I think could not have been supplied by anybody else since finished, and that I have since received the
names of witnesses and the facts to which they would attest in
handwriting said to be hers, as I believe.
When this record in divorce, with the answer, depositions,
&c., was offered in evidence on the part of plaintiff, the counsel of defendant objected on several grounds, which were
overruled; and then when the plaintiff's counsel proposed to
read the whole record the counsel of the defendant objected,
and insisted that only so much thereof as showed the nature
of the suit and the time of the commencement thereof
could be read, and especially that the answer of John
Beardsley, the defendant therein, could not'be read against
the defendant in this action. The objections were overruled,
and the whole of the record was read to the jury, to which
action of the court the defendant's counsel excepted.
In the suit below, also, the plaintiffs called as a witness
one of the clerks of Tappan's own Mercantile Agency, and
proposed to ask him whether Tappan had at the time of this
alleged libel an agent or correspondent in Norwalk, Ohio;
and if so, who he was. Tappan's counsel objected to the
question, on the ground of immateriality to the issue; but
the court overruling the objection, the question was put to
him. The witness now declined to answer, for the reason,
among others, "that his answer would tend to accuse or
criminate him [the correspondent?-Rrsp.] in a charge of
an indictable misdemeanor." The bill of exceptions proceeded:
"But the judge ruled that the witness was bound to answer
the question; and on his still declining so to do, he was adjudged
by the court to be guilty of a contempt of court in the face of

Dec. 1870.]

TAPPAN

v.

BEARDSLEY.

Opinion of the court.

the court, and was sentenced to be committed to prison for his
said offence, there to remain until discharged by due course of
law."
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs $10,000, and
judgment was entered accordingly. The case was now here;
the questions presented for review to this coiirt arising from
a bill of exceptions taken on the trial, and relating to the
objections taken by defendant to the admission of evidence,
and to the ruling of the court in instructing the jury.
Messrs. C. O'Connor and William Allen Butler, for the plaintiff in.
error; Messrs. Casey and Bartley, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
In the admission of evidence we are of opinion that the
court committed an error that must have contributed very
largely to swell the amount of the verdict, which, without
such testimony, was perhaps unusually and unjustifiably
large, and might possibly have been for the defendant.
The error referred to was in the introduction of the record
of the suit for divorce. The record thus read to the jury
consisted of the petition of the wife of Beardsley for divorce',
the answer of Beardsley, the depositions of several witnesses
taken by Beardsley in that suit, and the order of the court
dismissing the bill. The influence of this record on the
verdict of the jury will be at once understood by a slight
reference to its contents. It -seems that the suit was commenced some four or five months after the alleged publication of the libellous matter for which this suit was brought,
and some time after its commencement. Beardsley in his
answer alleged that the suit was not instituted by his wife
or for her benefit, but by Tappan, and by counsel employed
by him, for the sole ptqrpose of making good the slander
which he had published against Beardsley on that subject.
The testimony of S. F. Taylor, who was the attorney that
brought the divorce suit, is also a part of the record so read,
and having been taken by Beardsley is as artfully contrive.
VOL. X.

28

TAPPAN

v.

BEARDSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

as it could possibly be made, to confirm the truth of Beardsley's answer, that the suit was brought at Tappan's request
without the authority of the nominal plaintiff; and all this
is confirmed by his final appearance and dismissal of the
suit for want of prosecution.
In short, no one can read that record and believe it without being convinced that Tappan, having slandered Beardsley, and being called into account for it, entered into a still
more disgraceful conspiracy to establish the truth of what
he had said by using the name of Beardsley's wife in a suit
against him for divorce without her authority, and without
any shadow of justice.
The effbect of this in aggravating the damages to be recovered is too plain to require comment. And yet Tappan
was no party to that suit; had no right to control or influence the making of that record; could not cross-examine
the witnesses, all of whom were Beardsley's, nor take any
exceptions to or contradict Beardsley's answer. It is difficult to conceive upon what principle the record of that suit
was admissible for any purpose whatever in the trial of this
one. If the defendant had introduced any evidence to show
that a suit for divorce had actually been brought, in support
of his statement that there was a rumor that it would be
done, then it might have been competent for the plaintiff to
show when it was instituted, as some evidence that no such
rumor existed when Tappan so reported. But it does not
appear that Tappan attempted to show in this suit that the
divorce suit had ever been instituted. All that comes from
the plaintiff, and it is difficult to see what relevancy it had
to any issue before the court. If, however, a state of case
could possibly have existed to justify the introduction by
the defendant of that record for that purpose, it could be
used for no other, and the answer of -Beardsley and the
depositions of the witnesses were not only irrelevant to the
issue then being tried, but they were forbidden by other
well-established rules of evidence:
1. Beardsley's answer was not sworn to, and was made
with a probable view to its use against Tappan in this suit,

Dec. 1870.]

TAPPAN

v.

BEARDSLEY.

Opinion of the court.

and was made when Tappan could neither contradict his
statements nor cross-examine him.
2. As to Taylor's deposition, the fact that he was a competent witness in the present suit and could have been used
by the plaintiff as such, is sufficient to exclude his deposition
taken in another suit, even if Tappan had been a party to
that suit. Still more forcible is the objection when the
deposition was taken in a suit to which Tappan was no
party, and on an occasion of which he bad no notice, and
when he had no right to cross-examine him or to controvert
the truth of what he said.*
Two inconsistent reasons are given in support ,of the
ruling of the court on this point.
It is said first that the depositions do not constitute a part
of the record of the divorce suit, and were, therefore, not
read in the present suit. And it is true that such depositions not read on the trial of the divorce suit could in no
just sense constitute a part of the record. But it is clear
to us from examining the bill of exceptions of the present
case that the depositions were read to the jury as a part of
the record of the divorce suit, and were so read against the
objection of the defendant.
I It is said, on the other hand, that they should have been
read because they were a part of the record, and that when
one part of a record of a suit is read all must be read.
When one party introduces and reads from such a record
that which suits his purpose, the other party may read for
his own benefit all that relates to that subject, or require the
party introducing the record to do so. But we know of no
rule which, bedause a party may use a record or part of it
to establish a fact that can only be established by record,
authorizes the same party to use everything else which may
be found in the record, however irrelevant to the issue on
trial, or however it may violate other well-established principles of the law of evidence.
It is possible that the plaintiff had a right to show that the
Rutherford v. Geddes, 4 WalIaee, 220.

KIMBALL V.

THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

divorce suit against him was brought long after the publication of the slander and after Tappan had been sued for it;
and that for this purpose the record was admissible. But
this by no means establishes his right to bring before the
jury the entire merits of the divorce §uit, the (lepositions
taken in that suit which bear hardly upon Tappan, who was
no party to it, and the answer of Beardsley making charges
against Tappan, when the latter could make no reply to
them.
Upon this question the case of the Marine Insurance Co. v.
Hodgson,* Rutherford v. Geddes,t and Laybourn v. Crisp,t are
directly in point; and the authorities cited by Mr. Taylor in
his work on Evidence,§ fully sustain the proposition laid
down by him, that depositions in chancery can only be read
when the bill shows that the cause was against the same
parties, or those claiming in privity with them.
For this error the judgment of the Circuit Court is
REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL AWARDED.

KIMBALL V. THE COLLECTOR.
Under the proviso to the Act of March 3, 1867 (11 Stat. at Large, 192),
which act allows an importer to make additions to the value of goods
as given in the entry or invoice; and which proviso provides "that
under no cireumstanees shall the duty be assbssed upon an amount less than the
invoice or entered value, any law of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding ;"
and the act of the same day (1b. 199), which enacts that unmanufactured
sheep's wool above the value of 20 cents, shall pay an ad valorem duty
of 24 per cent., but if "of the value of 20 cents or less, at the place of exportation, shall be exempt from duty," the invoice and entered value
(which in this case was the actual cost), and not any lower market value
of the goods at the date and place of exportation, is the value upon

which the duty is to be assessed.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for Massachusetts; the case
,being this:
6 Cranch, 206.
$ 4 Meeson and Welsby, 820.

t 4 Wallace, 220.
1418.

