DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF TIlE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERMS, 1869, 1870.

THE BLACIWALL.
I A libel for salvage may be filed in the name of the master and owners
of the salving vessel, although the master may make no claim in his
own behalf, but, contrariwise, may disclaim.
2. A tug towing, under the direction of the fire department of a city, fire
engines commonly used on land, from a wharf, into a harbor where a
vessel is on fire, and laying alongside of the burning vessel while the
engines throw water upon her, is entitled to salvage, the fire being successfully ixtinguished.
3. The owners of the tug will not be deprived of salvage because the representatives of the fire department have not made a claim as co-salvors.
4. A vessel owned by a corporation may be entitled to salvage, the vessel'
being otherwise a salvor. The Camanche (8 Wallace, 476) affirmed on
this point.
5. One-twentieth part of the value of, the property saved allowed to a tug
carrying fire engines, and layi g beside a burning vessel while the
engines, under the management of the fire department of the town,
worked them and extinguished the fire. This reversed a decree which
had allowed a tenth for her salvage service ; the fire department having presented no claim ; no allowance having been made to it; and the
tenth allowed having apparently been an allowance for the whole salvage service.
6.
on-prosecution of their claim by one set of salvors, enures to the benefit
of the owners of the vessel, and not to that of other salvors who do
prosecute their claim.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
California; the case as it appeared from the opinion of the
District Court, from which it had been taken to the court
below was this:
VOL.

X.

1

T.HE

BLACKWALL'.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

About 4 o'clock on the morning of the 24th of August,
1867, the British ship B]ackwall, theti at anchor in the harbor of San Francisco, was discovered to be on fire. Shortly
afterwards the alarm was communicated to the shore, and
the fire department of the city called out. As soon as the
cause of the alarm was ascertained, the chief engineer of the
fire department, with an officer of the harbor police, proceeded to the steam-tug Goliah, then lying at one of the
city's wharves, and belonging to an incorporated towing
company of San Francisco, and having aroused the person in
charge, requested him to "fire up" without delay, in order
that the engines might be conveyed on the tug to the burning vessel. This, after a few moments' hesitation, arising
it was plain from reluctance to act without orders, he proceeded to do. Messengers were despatched to the captain
and engineer of the tug, who were asleep at their homes
on shore, and every efibrt made to get steam on the tug as
quickly as possible. The captain and engineer were aroused,
and at once repaired to the wharf. It being found impracticable for the tug to go into the slip where the fire engines
lay, two of the latter were brought around to the wharf
where the tug was, and taken across the deck of a steamboat which lay between the wharf and the tug, and so on to
the tug with promptitude and skill. About 6 o'clock the
tug, with two engines on board, together with the firemen,
&c., attached to them, moved from the wharf, and in a few
minutes were alongside the ship. The fire had by this time
made considerable progress. The house on deck between
the fore and mizzen masts was on fire, and the flames were
mounting nearly half way to the tops. The ship was also
burning between decks, where the fire first originated. The
officers and crew, though assisted by a party from the United
States ship Lawrence, havin9 found all attempts to subdue the
flanles (bortive, had desisted from, further efforts, and had a few
moments before the Goliah arrived, left the vessel with their ei'eets
in small boats. Without speedy assistance the total destruction of the ship and ca,rgo was inevitable. The measures of
the firemen and officers of the tug were taken 'with great

:Dec. 1869.]

THE B LACKWALL.
Statement of the case.

skill and energy. The hose of the engines was charged,
as the tug approached the vessel, and as soon as she was
near enough, four streams were directed upon her. The
tug, without hesitation or delay, was made fast alongside
the Blackwal. The firemen almost instantly mounted her
rails, went thence to her forecastle, and from thence to her
deck, sweeping the latter with four powerful streams, by
which the fire was speedily controlled. They then descended to her between decks, and in a little more than half an
hour the flames were entirely extinguished. Tier anchor
was then weighed by the advice of the captain of the tug,
and the vessel was towed to certain flats near one of the
city's wharves. The tug was then dismissed, and the engines
were taken to the shore and landed.
As to thd degree of danger incurred by the tug there was
some conflict of testimony. That she was promptly and
boldly laid alongside the burning vessel was undisputed.
That she caught fire once or twice was proved, although
this fire was instantly extinguished, and with the powerful
appliances she had oi board the danger from this cause was
perhaps not great.
The chief risk incurred by her was from the falling of the
masts or spars of the vessel. Au accident of this kind, had
it occurred, might have proved disastrous to the tug, and
perhaps to many on board. The danger was not supposed to
arise from the burning of the shrouds, for they were of wire,
but from the fact of the mast seeming consumed by the fire,
which had been burning between decks for several hours.
As a matter of fact, it was found on subsequent examination
that.the mast was but little burnt, and was in no danger of
falling. And the chief engineer of the fire department testilled that he became convinced very soon after getting on
board, that all fears of the masts falling were groundless.
These fears were, however, entertained and expressed, not
only by the officers of the tug, but by the pilot, and by the
mate of the ship, so much so that axes were got in readiness
to cut away the shrouds on the portside of the vessel, in
order that the mast might fall to the other side.

THE BLACKWALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the salving tug.

It is also to be observed that the tug encountered the risk
of the possible existence of explosive substances on board
the vessel, and also, though this risk was slight, that of her
own machinery or that of the fire engines becoming unserviceable, while she lay alongside the vessel.
The tug, however, was not the sole salvor. Without her
assistance indeed the fire engines would have been powerless to save the ship, but without these engines on the other
hand, the tug's aid would have been just as ineffectual.
In this state of facts the towing corporation, which was
owner of'the tug, and one Clark, her master, filed a libel
against the ship and cargo, in the District Court at San Francisco, for salvage. The libel alleged that the ship was on
fire; that the cargo as well as the ship was in great danger,
and that both would have been destroyed had itnot been
for the exertions of the steanitug, her master and crew; that
the master and crew went with the stearntug to the assistance
of the ship, and that they succeeded, after great trouble and
great risk to the tug, in quelling and subduing the flames,
and that they then towed the ship to a place of safety. The
fire department was no party to the,libel: and in his testimony
the master stated that his name was used in the libel only
for the company owning the tug, and that he himself claimed
no interest. The value of the ship and cargo, so far as saved,
Was $100,000; the value of the tug about $50,000. The District Court decreed "that libellants do have and recover of
the claimants $10,000 with their costs;" and this decree
having been affirmed in the Circuit Court, the owners of
the Blackwall now appealed to this court.
Mr. Goodrichfor the appellant:
1. Clark having no interest, and having in fact disclaimed,
cannot maintain suit for others, either in his own name or
jointly with those in whom the interest may be. There is
in fact a misjoinder; and the libel should be dismissed. The
general rule of law and equity about parties must apply to
admiralty cases.
2. The owners of the tug in their libel, aver that the boat,

Dec. 1869.]

THiE

BLACKWALL.

Argument for the salving tug.

its master and crew performed the entire salvage service.
They must prove this, or the libel, not having been amended
or reformed, should on this ground also be dismissed. But
they cannot prove it. The fire department did much more
than the tug. Even if the owners of the tug were co-salvors,
they do not aver themselves to have been so, and therefore,
they cannot recover as such. The issue presented by the
pleading is an entirety of service rendered by the libellants,
when in fact only a slight proportion thereof was rendered
by the steamtug; the value of this proportion is not distinctly
in issue, and there is nothing before the court by which it
can be apportioned.*
8. The service by which the fire was extinguished was performed by the fire department of San Francisco, in the discharge of its public official duties. The vessel was in a position to be under the surveillance of the harbor police, by one
of which the fire was discovered. The engineer of the fire
department seized upon the tug (no resistance or objection
being made), and used the same for the transportation of his
engines and men, with and by which the service and extinguishment of the fire was accomplished. No compensation
by way of salvage could be made to the fire department if it
made a claim for it. But it made none originally; and it
has never asked, nor does it now ask for a proportion of the
money in the registry. The reason for this is obvious. It
is that all persons who are under any legal obligation, express or implied, to render assistance, are not entitled to salvage.t The fire department of San Francisco is, of course,
paid by the city.
4. The decree of the distriot judge, affirmed by the Circuit
Court, is joint in favor of the master and owners of the tug,
and cannot be sustained, unless both make claim and are entitled to recover. The master disclaims. This objection is,
*Malcomson
v. Clayton, 13 Moore, Privy Council, 198, 206; Zugasti V.
Lamer, 12 Id. 331, 338; Orne v. Townsend, 4 Mason, 641; The Sarah Ann,
2 Sumner, 206; The Towan, 2 W. Robinson, 259; The Neptune, 1 Id. 302;
The Princess Alice, 3 Id. 142.
t Conkling, Admiralty Jurisdiction, 274.

THE B LACKWALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the vessel salved.

indeed, included in the first one, So far as to preliminary
objections.
But others remain.
A party not actually occupied in effecting a salvage service,
is not entitled to share in a salvage remuneration. There is
indeed an exception to this rule in favor of owners of vessels,
which, in rendering assistance, have either been diverted
from their proper employment or have experienced a special
mischief, occasioning to the owners some inconvenience and
loss, for which an equitable compensation may reasonably be
claimed.* But the libellants were incorporated for the purpose of owning and using boats for a towage service, and do
not come within the terms or reasons of the exception from
the general rule. The company is entitled to a fair compensation, a quantum meruit for its work and labor done. But
clearly the sum of ten thousand dollars exceeds an equitable
compensation for the service performed by the tug. Indeed
the sum has not been allowed as such; forIt is evident that the sum decreed as compensation for salvage includes the entire service, which was rendered by the
fire department, as well as the transportation service of the
tug.
Messrs. 11. A. and J S. Wise, contra:
1. Clark asserts his claim as a master and salvor. Whether
his claim, which he asserts as a salvor, is to enure eventually
to his benefit or not, is unimportant. It is asserted in the libel,
and the decrees support it, they being joint for company and
Clark. Opposite counsel need not exercise themselves as to
the proportion due respectively to company as owners, and
Clark as master. The decree is sufficiently certain to be
good, as against them. The counsel will settle the respective
proportions of company and Clark satisfactorily to the parties
concerned, or they can have the proportions ascertained by
the court. This disposes of the objection both to the form of
the libel and to that of the decree.* The Vine, 2 Hagghrd, 1, 2; The Charlotte, 8 W. Robinson, 72.

Dec. 1869.]

Tim BLACKWALL.
Argument for the vessel salved.

2. The allegation of the libel as to what the steamtug did
is in form; and is essentially true. The libellants were not
bound to allege all the subsidiary, collateral, and instrumental aids that assisted to produce the fortunate result.
3. The service by which the fire w:s extinguished, was not
performed by the fire department alone. How could landengines have got to the ship, if the tug had not taken them
there? How could they have been used'with effect if they
had not remained on the tug? The tug did a great share of
what wa, done, Indeed no towboat ever performed a more
novel, skilful, and efficient feat than did this towboat.
. 4. The only question then is, was the tug a salvor? A
salvor is one who, without any particular relation to a vessel
in distress, proffers useful service, and gives it as a volunteer
adventurer, without any pre-existing covenant that connected
him with the duty of employing himself for, the preservation of the vessel.* Now the tug performed this exact kind
of service. She was under no pre-eiisting contract, or in
any particular relation to the vessel which made it her duty
to risk her own safety in saving her. The engineer of the
fire department had nO right to seize her, nor did he seize
her. 11er service was voluntary and cheerful. It was 1old
also; and it was successful. Whether or not the fire department rendered any salvage service or not we need not inquire, for they make no claim.
5. The objection that the vessel was owned by a corporation, and that its owners rendered Do personal service, is the
same objection that-was made by Mr. Ward at the bar, in
The Camanche, conclusively answered by Mr. Casserly, opposing counsel, and overruled by this court.
6. As to the amount awarded. Plainly the decree is not
meant to enure in any way to the benefit of the fire department, which makes no claim, and never has rnade any, for the
reason (aniong others) stated on the other side, that it is paid
by the city.
Then was the amount excessive for the tug alone? The
The Wave,.2 Paine, 131.

Tim

]BLACKWALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of case in the opinion.

ship was derelict. That is an immense feature in every case.
The proportion for derelicts is from one-third to one-half.*
In The Baltimore,t £800 out of £1900 was awarded. This
would give us upwards of $40,000. In The Aid,T a tenth was
allowed to boats. In The Albion§ nearly a fourth, and costs.
A fifth in The Branken Moor,J a case in which the court said
that the underwriters would not have underwritten for 50
per cent. In our case they would not have underwritten for
75. See also The Medora, which was a case of mere towage,
where £600 was allowed. In the case of a derelict where a
claimant appears, generally from a third to a half is allowed.
The modern cases give about a third.** But in the case of
Jonge B3 asdiaan,tttwo-thirds were allowed. See also The Isabella,tt which is a strong case; and The T/itis,§§ where expenses, £29,000 out of £157,000 were allowed. These cases
make allowances far in excess of the allowance made below,
and that foo, where the destruction of the property was not
so certain.
In addition, this court declared in The Camanche,t1l that it
would not reverse a decree in salvage oil the matter of
amount, "unless for clear mistake br gross over-allowance."
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the cou rt.
Salvage is claimed by the libellants, as owners of the
steamtug Goliah, for services renderd by the steanitug, her
master and crew, on the twenty-fourth of August, 1867, in
saving the ship Blackwall and her cargo, then lying at anchor
in the harbor of San Francisco. They allege that the ship
was on fire; that the cargo as well as the ship was in great
danger, and 'hat both would have been destroyed had it not
been for the exertions of the steamtug, her master and crew;
thoit the master and crew went with the steamtug to the
, 1 Mason, 377; Hindry v. Priscilla, Bee,
Rowe and others v. Brig
1; L'Espcrance, I Dodson, 46.
3 Id. 256.
Id. 373.
I1
1 1 Haggard, 84.
- 2 Dodson, 136.
2 W. Robinson, 69. ** The Thetis, 2 Knapp, 410.
tj 2 Robinson, 43.
ft5 Robinson, 287.
1118 Wallace, 478.
3 Haggard, 14; 2 Knapp, 408.

Dec. 1869.]

THE BLACKWALL.
Restatement of case in the opinion.

assistance of the ship, and that they succeeded, after great
trouble and great risk to the tug, in quelling and subduing
the flames, and that they then towed the ship to a place of
safety.
Information that the ship was on fire was communicated
to the master of the steamtug by one of the deck-hands of
the tug, and he went immediately to the slip where she was.
lying, in order to give directions to the men on board to
kindle up the fires and put on steam; but he found, on arriving there, that one of the harbor police had been there before
him, and that he had made a similar request, and that the
firemen of the tug had started the fires for the purpose of
putting on steam.
Two persons were sent to the ship, which was lying at
anchor in the harbor, some seven or eight hundred yards
from the wharves, to see if there was any chance to extinguish the flames, and they reported that the ship might be
saved. She was an English ship of twelve hundred tons
burden, and she was ready to sail for her port of destination
with a cargo consisting of thirty'eight thousand five hundred
and one sacks of wheat, valued at sixty-thousand dollars, and
she was lying at anchor where the water was eight or ten
fathoms in depth. They discovered the fire at four o'clock
in the morning, and at six o'clock, or a quarter past that
hour, they proceeded to the ship in the steamtug, having
previously taken on board two steam fire-engines, each
weighing five tons, with the engineer and several firemen
belonging to each engine, and the chief engineer of the fire
department, making twenty persons, including the master
.and crew of the steamtug. Both engines were well supplied
with hose, and they had on board a considerable supply of
fresh water. When the stearntug reached the ship those on
board had become discouraged, and there were ten or twelve
boats around the ship taking off the crew, but the boats were
utterly unable to do anything towards extinguishing the lire.
Commanded, as all on board the stealatug were, by her
master, their first act, after running alongside, was to fasten
a stern-line to the main-chains of the ship, so as to lie across

10

Tim BLACKWALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the tide on the port side of the ship. At that time the fire
seemed to be between decks, but the houses of 'the ship on
deck were also on fire. Great apprehension was felt lest the
foremast should fall, as it was on fire between decks, and the
flames had extended to the deck and twenty feet up the
mast. Her bulwarks were also-on fire, and the master of
the tug deemed it necessary to cut away the port-rigging
attached to that mast to prevent it from falling across the
steamtug. They put the engines in operation promptly,
putting four streans of water on to the ship, and by those
means extinguished the fire in an hour, the firemen working the engines under the command of their respective engineers. Some of the persons present advised the master
of the steamtug to unshackle and slip the anchor; but he
insisted that it could be saved, aild it was hoisted on board
the ship by the windlass.
Promptness and efficiency characterized the conduct of all
engaged in performing the service throughout the transaction, and the steamtug, as soon as the fire was subdued and
extinguished, took the ship in tow and proceeded with her
to the adjacent flats, and left her there in safety in charge of
her master and crew.
I. Certain preliminary objections are made by the appellants to the maintenance of the suit, which will be first considered, before proceeding to examine the merits. Those
objections are as follows: (1.) That the master, having uo
interest in the claim, is improperly joined in the suit. (2.)
That the libellants have no just claim to compensation, as
the salvage service was performed by the nembers of the fire
department. (8.) That the service having been performed
by the members of the fire department, in pursuance of a
public duty, they are not entitled to any compensation a
salvage. (4.) That the decree, inasmuch as it is joint- in
favor of the master as well as the owners of the steamtug,
is erroneous, because the master makes no claim to recover
any compensation for his services.
1. Salvage suits are frequently promoted by the master

Dec. 1869.]

THE 3LACKWALL.
Opinion of the court.

alone, in behalf of himself and the owners and crew, or in
behalf of the owners and crew, or the owners alone, without
making any claim in his own behalf, and the practice has
never led to any practical difficulty, as the whole subject, in
case of controversy, is within the control of the court.
Much examination was given to the question as to proper
parties, in a salvage suit decided at the last term, in a case
where the owners of the steamer rendering the service were
an incorporated company, and by reference to the authorities cited in the opinion of the court in thaf case it will be
found that the suit is frequently promoted in the name of
the master, or of the companyand master, as in this case.*
Many other cases of like import might be referred to, but
it must suffice to say that the court is of the opinion that
the suit is well brought.t
2. Service undoubtedly was performed by the members of
the fire department; but it is a mistake to suppose that service was not also performed by the steamtug, as it is clear
that without the aid of the steamtug and the services of her
master and crew the members of the fire company would
never have been able to reach the ship with their engines
and necessary apparatus, or to have subdued the flames and
extinguished the fire. Useful services of any kind rendered
to a vessel or her cargo, exposed to any impending danger
and imiminent peril of loss or damage, may entitle those who
render such services to salvage reward.
Persons assisting to extinguish a fire on board a ship, or
assisting to tow a ship from a dock where she is in imminent
danger of catching fire, are as much entitled to salvage compensation as persons who render assistance to prevent a ship
from being wrecked, or in securing a wreck, or protecting
the cargo of a stranded vessel.t
* The Camanche, 8 Wallace, 470.
t The Commander-in-Chief, 1 Wallace, 51; iouseman v. The Schooner
North Carolina, 15 Peters, 49; The Propeller Commerce, 1 Black, 574;

McKinlay v. Morrish, 21 Howard, 343; 2 Parsons on Shipping, 370.
$ The Rosalie, 1 Spink, 188; Eastern Monarch, Lushington, 81; The
Tees, 1b. 505; Williams & Bruce, Admiralty Practice, 92.

THE BLACKWALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Salvage is the compensation allowed to persons by whose
assistance a ship or her cargo has been saved, in whole or in
part, from impending peril on the sea, or in recovering such
property from actual loss, as in cases of shipwreck, derelict,
or recapture. Success is essential to the claim; as if the
property is not saved, or if it perish, or in case of capture
if it is not retaken, no compensation can be allowed. More
than one set of salvors, however, may contribute to the
result, and in such cases all who engaged in the enterprise
and materially contributed to the saving of the property,
are entitled to share in the reward which the law allows for
such meritorious service, and in proportion to the nature,
duration, risk, and value of the service rendered.*
Salvors are not deprived of a remedy because another set
of salvors neglect or refuse to join -in the suit, nor will such
neglect or refusal benefit the libellants by giving them. any
claim to a larger compensation, as the non-prosecution by
one set of salvors enures, not to the libellants prosecuting
the claim, but to the owners of the property saved.t
Cases may also be found where co-salvors who neglected
to appear and become parties to the suit until the decree
was pronounced, were allowed to petition the court for such
compensation out of the fund in the registry of the court,
and where their claim received a favorable adjudication.T
3. Important service unquestionably was performed by the
members of the fire department, but as they are not parties
to this suit it is not necessary to determine whether they
would, under the circumstances of this case, be entitled to a
salvage reward. Pilots, under some circumstances, may
become salvors, and cases may be imagined where firemen
perhaps might come within the same rule, but the question
not being before the court no opinion is expressed upon the
subject.
* Norris v. Island City, 1 Clifford, 220; The Bartley, Swaboy, 198; Pride
of Canada, Browning & Lushington, 209; 2 Parsons on Shipping, 279.
j Ship Charles Newberry, 329; 2 Parsons on Shipping, 301.
: Henry Ewbank, 1 Sumner, 400; Roberts on Admiralty, 85; The Camanche, 8 Wallace, 476.

Dec. 1869.]

THE BLACKWALL.

13

Opinion of the court.

4. Comment upon the form of the decree is unnecessary,
as it has already been determined that the joinder of the
master with the owners of the ship was not error for which
the decree should be reverged, as the distribution of the fund
is within the control of the court. Exceptions of the kind,
if the claimant intends to rely on the same, should be. made
in the District Court, where the pleadings may be amnended.*
5. Objection is also made that the owners of a vessel cannot promote a salvage suit unless they participate in the
salvage service; or if they may promote such a suit, that
they cannot participate in the reward decreed for the salvage
service except for the risk and damage to which their property was exposed in rendering the salvage service. Such an
objection was made in the case of The (Jamanche, before
cited, but the court overruled the objection, and that ruling
is adopted and applied in this:case.
Be'yond doubt remune ration for salvage service is awarded
to the owners of vessels on account of the danger to which
the service exposes their property, and the risk which they
run of loss in suffering their vessels to engage in such peril
ous undertakings, but it is not admitted that the amount of
the allowance must be reduced on that ground. Corporations, as the owners of vessels, whether sail-vessels or steamers, may promote a salvage suit, and it makes no difference
in that respect whether they were present or absent, provided it appears that the vessel employed was well manned
and equipped'or the service.t
II. Nothing remains to be considered but the question
whether the amount awarded in the court below to the libellants was correct. Steam vessels are always considered as
entitled to a liberal reward, not only because the service is
usually rendered by a costly instrumentality, but because the
service is in general rendered with greater promptitude and
is of a more effectual character. Courts of admiralty usually
consider the following circumstances as the main ingredients
* The Camanche, 8 Wallace, 476.

t Island City, 1 Black, 121; S. C., 1 Clifford, 210,219, 221 ; Roberts's Admiralty, 104.

14

THE

BLACKWALL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in determining the amount of the reward to be decreed for
a salvage service: (1.) The labor expended by the salvors in
rendering the salvage service. (2.) The..promptitude, skill,
and energy displayed in rendering the service and saving
the property: (3.) The value of the property employed by
the salvors in rendering the service, and the danger to which
such property was exposed. (4.) The risk incurred by the
salvors in securing the property from the impendin'g peril.
(5.) The value of the property saved. (6.) The degree of
danger from which the property was rescued.
Compensation as salvage is not viewed by the admiralty
courts merely as pay, on the principle of a quantar meruit,
or as a remuneration PRO OPERE ET LABORE, but as a reward
given for perilous services, voluntarily rendered, and as an
inducement to seamen and others to embark in such undertakings to save life and property.*
Public policy encourages the hardy and adventurous mariner to engage in these laborious and sometimes dangerous
enterprises, and with a view to withdraw from him every
temptation to embezzlement and dishonesty, the law allows
him, in case he is successful, a liberal compensation.t
Minute description of the circumstances attending the
service rendered by the libellants is given in the opinion of
the district judge, which is exhibited in full in the record,
and we refer to that as a satisfactory statement of all the
material facts in the case, and we concur with him in the
conclusion, that without speedy assistance the total dcstruc.
tion of the ship and cargo was inevitable; that the inetsures
for relief taken by the officers of the steamtuo, and by the
firemen, were characterized by great skill and energy, but
the repetition of the details of those measures beyond what
has already been stated, is unnecessary. Suffice it to say
the flames were extinguished in an hour or less, and the
property to the value of one hundred thousand dollars, including vessel and cargo, was saved. Success attended their
effbrts, and it is evident that the services were in a high de* Williams& Bruce, Admiralty Practice, 116; 2 Parsons on Shipping, 292.
t Island City, 1 Clifford, 228.

Dec. 1869.]

THE DAVIS.
Syllabus,

gree meritorious, as a total loss of the ship and cargo must
have been the consequence of any considerable additional
delay. Those who embarked in the enterprise incurred
considerable danger from the fire, in laying alongside of the
burning vessel, and also from the risk that the mast would
fall in consequence of the fire between decks. Dangers of
the kind were apparent, and there were others apprehended
which proved not to be real.
Viewed in the light of all the circumstances, as they are
exhibited in the record, our conclusion is that the amount
allowed is no more than a just salvage compensation for the
entire service performed by the firemen and the steamtug,
her officers and crew, but it must be remembered that the
libellants, to wit, the steamtng, her officers and crew, were
not the sole salvors, and it is clear that the sum decreed is
for the whole service. Whether the fire department might
or might not have been joined in the libel is not a question
in this case. They were not made parties to the libel, and
consequently their claim, if any, was not before the court,
and the decree must be reversed on that ground.
Our conclusion is that a moiety of the amount allowed as
salvage belongs to the libellants, and we express no opinion
whether the other moiety may or may not be claimed by the
fire department; but if not, then it enures to the shipowners.
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause REMANDED, with directions to enter a decree for the libellants in the sum of five
thousand dollars, with costs, in the District and Circuit
Courts, and with interest from the date of the former decree.

TiE DAVIS.
1. Personal property of the United States on board of a vessel, for transportation from one point to another, is liable to a lien for salvage services

rendered in saving the property.
2. Such lien cannot be enforced by the courts by a suit against the United
States.

