MASTERSON

v.

HERNDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

MASTERSON V. HERNDON.
1. All the parties against whom a joint judgment or decree is rendered
must join in the writ of error or appeal, or it will be dismissed, except
sufficient cause for the nonjoinder be shown.
2. In writs of error where one of the parties refused to join in the writ, the
remedy was anciently by summons and severance, which barred such
party from suing out the writ afterwards, and allowed the judgment to
be enforced again st him, while the other prosecuted the writ of error.
8. The same effect will be given by this court to the allowance of a writ of
error or an appeal, when one of the parties has been notified or requested
in writing to join in the writ of error or appeal,-and refuses to do so.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Texas; the case being thus:
Howard and others filed in the court below a bill of peace
and for conveyance of pretended title to a tract of land described, against S. A. Maverick and J. H. Herndon, and on
that bill the court decreed that the complainant "have and
recover of the said S. A. Maverick and the said J. H. Herndon the tract of land in the bill described, and that their
title to the same is hereby decreed to be free from all clouds
cast thereon by the said defendants."
From this decree Herndon appealed. In regard to Maverick, the petition, which was signed by counsel only, and was
not sworn to, was thus:

"Your petitioner says that his co-defendant, Maverick, refuses
to prosecute this appeal with him."
Mr. P. Phillips,for the appellees, now objected that there
was no valid appeal in the case, because the decree being a
joint decree against Herndon and Maverick, Herndon alone
had asked for an appoal.
Mr. W. W. Boyce, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER, after stating that a careful examination of the record satisfied the court that the decree was
a joint decree, and that the appeal was clearly taken by
Herndon alone, delivered its opinion as follows:
It is the established doctrine of this court that in cases at

I

Dec. 1870.]

V. HERNDON.
0
MASTERSON
Opinion of the court.

law, where the judgment is joint, all the parties against
whom it is rendered must join iu the writ of error; and in
chancery cases, all the parties against whom a joint decree
is. rendered must join in the appeal, or they will be dismissed. There are two reasons for this: 1. That the successful party may be at liberty to proceed in the enfbrcement of his judgment or decree against the parties who do
not dosire to have it reviewed. 2. That the appellate tribunal shall not be required to decide a second or third time
the same question on the same record.*
In the case of Williams v. Banc of the Uniled States,t the
court says that where one of the parties refuses to join in a
writ of error, it is worthy of consideration whether the other
may not have remedy by summons and severance; and in
the case 'of Todd v. Daniel,J it is said distinctly that such is
the proper course. This remedy is one which has fillen into
disuse in modern proctice, and is unfamiliar to the profession ; but it was, as we find from an examination of the
books, allowed generally, when more than one person was
interested jointly in a cause of action or other proceeding,
and one of them refused to participate in the legal assertion
of the joint rights involved in the matter. In such case the
other party issued a writ of summons, by which the one who
refused to proceed was brought before the court, and if he
still refused, an order or judgment of severance was made
by the court, whereby the party who wished to do so could
sue alone. One of the effects of this judgment of severance
was to bar the party who refused to proceed, from prosecuting the same right in another action, as the defendant
could not be harassed by two separate actions on a joint
obligation, or on account of the same cause of action, it
being joint in its nature.ยง This remedy was applied to cases
Williams v. Bank of the United States, 11 Wheaton, 414; Owings v.
Kincannon, 7 Peters, 399; Heirs of Wilson v. Insurance Co., 12 Id. 140.
t The case first cited, supra.
.t 16 Peters, 521.
Brooke's Abridgment, 238, tit. "Summons and Severance;" 2 Rolle's

Abridgment, same title, 488; Archbold's Civil Pleadings, 54; Tidd's Practice, 129, 1136, 1169.
VOL. x.

27

MASTERSON V. HERNDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of writs of error when one of the plaintiffs refused to join
in assigning errors, and in principle is no doubt as applicable to cases where there is a refusal to join in obtaining a
writ of error or in an appeal. The appellant in this- case
seems to have been conscious that something of the kind
was necessary, for it is alleged in his petition to the Circuit
Court for an appeal, that Maverick refused to prosecute the
appeal with him.
We do not attach importance to the technical mode of
proceeding called summons and severance. We should
have held this appeal good if it had appeared in any way
by the record that Maverick had been notified in writing to
appear, and that he had failed to appear, or, if appearing,
had refused to join. But the mere allegation of his refusal,
in the petition of appellant, does not prove this. We think
there should be a written notice and due service, or the
record should show his appearance and refusal, and that the
court on that ground granted an appeal to the part/ who
prayed for it, as to his own. interest. Such a proceeding
would remove the objections made to permitting one to
appeal without joining the other, that is, it would enable
the court below to execute its decree so far as it could be
executed on the party who refused to join, and it would
estop that party from bringing another appeal for the same
matter. The latter point is one to which this court has
always attached much importance, and it has strictly adhered to the rule under which this case must be dismissed,
and also to the general proposition that no decree can be
appealed from which is not final in the sense of disposing
of the whole matter in controversy, so far as it has been
possible to adhere to it without hazarding the substantial
rights of parties interested. We dismiss this appeal with
the less regret, as there is still time to obtain another on
proceedings not liable to the objection taken to this.
APPEAL DISMISSED.

