Dec. 1869.]

WASHINGTON

RAULROAD

v.

BRADLEYS.

299

Statement of the ease.

pend the effect and operation thereof until the case is heard
in this court.
2d. That the judgment of this court will have the effect
to allow subordinate State courts to evade the supersedeas
of a writ of error in all cases where the court of last resort
remits the record to them for execution. The judgment of
this court disclaims all jurisdiction over the acts of the subordinate State courts, and thereby, in my judgment, surrenders a very important power necessary to the effective support of its appellate jurisdiction.
3d. That the judgment of the court remits the practice
on this subject substantially back to the practice of the English courts of equity, in which it is conceded that an appeal
does not suspend proceedings nor act as a supersedeas on
the proceedings in the court appealed from: and, in effect,
departs from the act of Congress, which declares that a writ
of error or an appeal in the Federal courts shall be a supersedeas.
4th. That the effect of the judgment of the court is to
disclaim its just control over the parties to the record.

WASHINGTON RAILROAD v. BRADLEYS.
1. It is a gross irregularity to hear a case without some terms imposed, on
an amended bill filed after replication, without leave of the court.
2. So it is an irregularity to go to hearing without replications to answers.
3. A petition by "way of cross-bill," which makes nobody defendant, which
prays for no process, and under which no process is issued, is a nullity.
4. A decree on such a bill, praying the reverse of what the original bill
prayed, is fatally erroneous. Nor will the fact that objection was not
made below, cure a combination of errors so large and so grave as above
indicated.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in a case of a bill by the Washington, Alexandria, and
Georgetown Railroad Company, against the City of Wash-

300

WASHINGTON

RAILROAD V.

BRADLEYS.,

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

ington, and J. H. and A. T. Bradley and others, amended
by the addition of new defendants; and of a petition " by way
of crdss-bill," made by one of the respondents in the case,
referring to the ease by title, and stating that "the facts fully
appear in the case," praying the reverse of what the complainant had prayed, but not making anybody defendant, nor
praying process, and under which no process was obtained;
the decree appealed from having been a decree in accordance
with the prayer of this " cross-bill." The particulars of the
case, which was argued here by Messrs. Bartley, Bradley, and

Davidge,for the appellants; and by Messrs. Brent, Crittenden,
and Durant,contra, are perhaps sufficiently indicated by
Mr. Justice SWAYNE, who thus gave them and delivered
the opinion of the court:
The appellants are the complainants in the case. The
original bill made the corporation of Washington and Joseph

I1. Bradley and A. Thomas Bradley only, defendants. The
prayer of the bill was that the defendants, Joseph H. and
A. T. Bradley, should be enjoined from selling, under a deed
made to them as trustees for the security and benefit of the
corporation of.Washington, the railroad described in the
deed of trust, and that the deed should be ordered to be delivered .up and cancelled. The defendants answered. The
complainants filed a replication. A preliminary injunction

was granted forbidding the sale of the road. Subsequently
the complainants filed an amended bill, whereby they made
George W. Riggs and A. T. Keickover, partners, under the
name of Riggs & Co., James C. McGuire, D. P. Lengham,
and James P. Kibbreth, defendants, in addition to th-se made
by the original bill. All the defendants were duly served

with process except Lengham and Kibbreth. McGuire answered. Kibbreth also answered, and thus became a party
to the record. Lengham did not appear. The corpol'ation
of Washington and J. H. and A. T. Bradley failed to answer
the amended bill. Riggs & Company also failed to answer,
and it was ordered, as to them, to be taken as confessed.

No such order was made as to the corporation of Washing-

Dec. 1869.]

WASHINGTON RAILROAD V. BRADLEYS.

301

Statement of the case in the opinion.

ton and the trustees in the deed of trust. No further replication was filed by the comptainants. Testimony was taken
on behalf of the corporation of Washington. The case was
referred to an auditor. In this condition of things the defendant Kibbreth filed a cross-bill, wherein he alleged that
he was the holder of certain securities indorsed by the cor-

poration of Washington and secured by the deed of trust,
and prayed that the preliminary injunction should be dissolved, and that the trustees should be required to proceed
to sell the trust property for the benefit of the cestui que trusts.
This bill makes po defendants, and asks for no process.
None was issued. It appears by the record that the cause
came'on to be heard upon this cross-bill, and vas reserved
to the court in bank. In that court it appears that the case
came on to be heard on the answer and cross-bill of Kibbreth, the original and amended bills of the complainants,
the answers, exhibits, and testimony, and that the court decreed that the preliminary injunction should be dissolved;
that the trustees should proceed to sell the trust property in
the manner prescribed by the deed of trust, and bring the
proceeds of the sale into court, and that all further questions
arising in the case should be reserved for future consideration and adjudication. This appeal is prosecuted to reverse
that decree.
The record is voluminous; we have adverted to its con-tents only so far as is necessary to develop the points which
we thiink must control the determination of the case. Several
important questions involving the merits of the controversy,
have been argued by the counsel, both in the briefs submitted and at the bar. In our view of the ease it is needless
to examine them. We have, therefore, given them no consideration.
The reference to the auditor was not revoked and he
made no report. For aught that appears to the contrary,
the case is still before him for the purposes specified in the
order.
The amended bill was filed without the leave of the court,

WASHINGTON RAILROAD V. BRADLEYS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

after the cause was regularly at issue. This was in violation of the 29th rule of equity practice prescribed by this
court. That rule provides as follows:
"After replication filed the plaintiff shall not be permitted to
withdraw it, and to amend his bill, except upon a special order
of' a judge of the court, upon motion or petition, after due notice to the other party, and upon proof by affidavit that the
same is not made for the purpose of vexation or delay, or that
the matter of the proposed amendment is material, and could
not with reasonable diligence have been sooner introducud into
the bill, and upon the plaintiff submitting to such other terms
as may be imposed by the judge for speeding the cause."
If the defendants, without laches on their part, had moved
the court to strike this bill from the files, it must have
been done. After the testimony was taken, without the
objection having been made, the case presented a different
aspect. But even then such action should have been taken
and such terms imposed as would have vindicated the rules
of practice by which the court was governed and the regular
order of proceeding. To bear the case without any order
on the subJect was a gross irregularity.
If the amended bill is to be considered as in the case, the
omission to file replications to the answers of McGuire and
Kibbreth was also an irregularity. The 66th rule is explicit
on the subject. The replication is necessary to put the cause
at issue. If the complainant omit to file it within the time
limited the defendant is entitled as of course to an order for
the dismissal of the suit, unless the court or a judge thereof,
upon cause shown, shall allow it to be filed nunc pro tune
upon such terms as it may be deemed proper to impose.
Parties defendanis are as necessary to cross-bills as to
original bills, and their appearance in both cases is enforced
by process in the same manner.* Without the aid of a
cross-bill the court could not have decreed the sale of the
property covered by the trust deed. It could only have dis* 8 Daniell's Chancery Practice, 1747.

Dee. 1869.]

WASHINGTON RAILROAD

v.

BRADLEYS.

803

Opinion of the court.

missed the bills of the complainants and have denied the
relief sought.* But the cross-bill was a nullity. It was not
before the court, and should have been stricken from the
files. The complainants prayed for an injunction forbidding the trustees to sell. The court, upon The cross-bill,
and according to its prayer, decreed a sale. This error is
inevitably fatal to the judgment given.
It is hardly necessary to repeat the axioms in the equity
law of procedure, that the allegations and proofs must agree,
that the court can consider only what is put in issue by the
pleadings, that avermients without proofs and proofs without
averments are alike unavailing, and that the decree must
conform to the scope and object of the prayer, and cannot
go beyond them. Certainly without the aid of a cross-bill
the court was not authorized to decree against the complainants the opposite of the relief' which they sought by. their
bills. That is what was done by the decree under consideration.
There is a large class of cases in which it has been held
that objections not taken in the court below will not be
allowed to be taken in this court. We do not intend to impugn this doctrine or to narrow the limits of its just operation. But where there is such a combination of errors,
and errors of so grave a character as those which mark the
record in the case before us, this principle can have no application.
DECREE reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings

IN

CONFORMITY TO
THIS OPINION.

Wickliffe v. Clay, I Dana, 689; Canochan v. Christie, 11 Wheaton,
446; Eyre et al. v. Potter et al., 15 Howard, 66; Price v. Berrington, 7
English Law and Equity, 264.

