256

NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

prejudice by the overruling of this motion. We therefore
lay out of view, as an element to be considered, the consent
of the Attorney-General that the order of dismissal shall be
rescinded.
The motion is addressed to the discretion of the court.
Under the circumstances, we are all of the opinion that it
ought to be
DENIED.

NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.
The appellee filed his petition in the Circuit Court of the United States
averring that he was the holder of a large amount of bonds and coupons,
secured by mortgage executed by the appellant. He prayed for executory process. Execution was awarded, and the appellant was ordered
to pay the amount of said bonds and coupons.
The appellant failing to pay on demand, the railroad and its appurtenances
were sold by the marshal, and the appellee became the purchaser.
The appellant then filed his petition in the said court, in the nature of an
audit2 quereld-averring that the award of execution had been made
without notice; that the executory process, as recognized by the practice of Louisiana, could not be enforced in the courts of the United
States; and that the appellee's claim could only be enforced on the
equity side of the court.
The record showed the following entry:
"The court having duly considered the 'petition and exhibits submitted by
the petitioner in this cause, and being satisfied that the prayer thereof cannot

be granted, it is ordered and decreed that the said petition be dismissed with
costs.' Judgment rendered June 14th, 1869. Judgment signed June 18th,
1869.
E. H. DURELL, Judge."
On motion to dismiss the writ of error, held, that this was sufficiently formal
and that it was a final judgment to which a writ of error would lie.
ON motion

to dismiss writ of error.

The New Orleans, Opelousas, anId Great Western Railroad Company issued, on thd 1st April, 1859, two thousand
bonds, redeemable in 1889, for $1000 each, with interest,
payable semi-annually; and to secure the payments a mortgage was executed upon the road (eighty miles), together
with the depots and lands appertaining to them, &c.
On 23d -February, 1869, Charles Morgan filed his petition

Dec. 1869.]

NEw ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.

257

Statement of the case.

in the Circuit Court of the United States for Louisiana,
averring that he was the holder of a certain number of
these bonds, and of coupons on them overdue.
On this petition an order was made, 30th March, 1869,
dire'cting the company to pay, on three days' notice, $316,840,
and in default of payment the mortgaged property to be
seized and sold for the whole debt.
[The reader will observe that this proceeding, known in
the civil code of Louisiana as executory process,, is wholly
ex parte. The mortgage is held to be in the nature of a
confession of judgment, and the judge grants the execution,
upon the application of the party, as a matter of course,
upon the production of authentic evidence of the mortgage,
and bonds or notes.]
The company, being in a great state of bmbarrassment,
was unable, thus summarily called on, to pay the large
amount required by the order, and a seizure of their property was made by the marshal, and notice thereof served on
the 5th April.
On the same day the company filed its bill on the equity
side of the said Circuit Court, asking that for causes therein
assigned the proceedings in the executory process should be
stayed, and Morgan be required to file a bill on the chancery side of the court, to which all the creditors might be
made parties, &c.
The motion for the injunction on this bill was heard 27th
April, 1869.
The propexty was advertised to be sold under a writ of
seizure, on 25thi May, 1869, and it was not until the day
before thiA sale, to wit, on 24th May, 1869, that the judge
entered the following order:
"For reasons orally assigned, it is ordered and decreed that
the prayer for an injunction be denied, with costs."
At the sale on the 25th May, Morgan, in the absence of
the other creditors, became the purchaser of this very large
propertr.
VOL. x.

17

258

NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD

V.

MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the motion.

On the Ist June, 1869, the company for the first time appeared on the law side of the said Circuit Court, and filed
its petition in the nature of an audita querelW; averring that
the executory process could not be legally ordered without
notice; that the order was made without notice; without
proper evidence and parties; that the subject of the suit was
only cognizable in chancery, &c., and prayed an award of
"a writ to Charles Morgan, expressing a willingness to hear
this complaint," that the validity of the said proceedings
might be examined, and that they be restrained and suspended by writ until a final order herein.
Exceptions were filed on the 8th June by Morgan, and on
the 14th June the following order and entry was made:
The court having duly considered the petition and exhibits
submitted by the petitioner in this cause, and being satisfied
that the prayer cannot be granted, it is ordered and decreed'
that the said petition be dismissed with costs.
Judgment rendered 14th June, 1869. Judgment signed 18th
June, 1869.
E. 1H. DURELL, Judge.
From this judgment the present writ of error was prosecuted in this court.
The Judiciary Act, as most readers will remember, gives
this court power to re-examine on writs of error, and reverse
or affirm "final judgments in civil actions or suits" rendered
in a Circuit Court, where the matter in dispute exceeds the
sum or value of $2000.
Mr. Jenckes now moved to dismiss this writ, chiefly on the
following grounds:
1. Because the record contained no bill of exceptions; nor
any agreed statement of facts; nor any special verdict; demurrer to a material pleading, or demurrer to evidence.
2. Because the judgment exhibited in the record was not
a final judgment.
in support of his motion, Mr. Jenekes argued, that unless a
bill of exceptions was tendered to the judge for his rulings

Dec. 1869.]

NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.

259

Opinion of the court.

thereon, and allowed; or unless an agreed statement pf facts,
or a special verdict, or demurrer to a material pleading, or
demurrer to evidence be shown, there was nothing disclosed
for this court to review.* And as there was thus no case
made here upon which the judgment of the court could be
given, and no final judginent of the court below set forth
which could be affirmed, the proper course was to dismiss
the writ of error.t
Mr. P. Phillips, contra:
Want of jurisdiction and irregularity of the writ, are the
only grounds for a dismissal. Wherever error is apparent
on thl record, it is open to revision, whether it be made to
appear by bill of exceptions or otherwise. In the present
case the judgment is passed upon the allegations of the petition and exhibits, as though a formal demurrer had been
filed by the defendant, and the action of the court, in either
sustaining or overruling a demurrer, may be examined by
writ of error, without a bill of exception.t
The proceeding instituted on the 1st June, 1869-a petition in the nature of an audilt quereld-is beyond controversy
a "civil action," or "suit," and the judgment rendered on
14th, and signed 18th June, was obviouslyfinal, inasmuch as
it entirely disposed of the claim to relief set up in said
"civil action" or "suit" and decreed costs. The motion
is, therefore, plainly unfounded every way.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Two principal causes are assigned in support of the motion to dismiss the writ of error:
1. That the record contains no bill of exceptions nor any
agreed statement of facts or any special verdict, demurrer to
a material pleading, or demurrer to evidence.
*Per
Clifford, J., Pomeroy's Lessee v. Bank of Indiana, 1 Wallace, 692;
Thompson v. Riggs, 5 Id. 663.

t" Barr v. The Des Moines Company, 1 Id. 99.

1 Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wallace, 661.

260

NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2. That the supposed judgment exhibited in the record is
not a final judgment.
Express jurisdiction is conferred upon this court by the
twenty-second section of the Judiciary Act to re-examine,
upon writ of error, and reverse or affirm final judgments in
civil actions rendered in a Circuit Court, where the matter
in dispute, exclusive of costs, exceeds the sum or value of
two thousand dollars, whether the same was brought there
by original process or was removed there from courts of the
several States, or from a District Court.*
Such a writ of error, when issued to a Circuit Court, removes the whole record into this court, and if all the proceedings in the suit were correct, it follows, if not from the
very words of the section, certainly from the necessary construction of the same, that the judgment must be affirmed.t
Error may be shown in such a case by a bill of exceptions
or by a demurrer to the declaration, or a material pleading,
or it may appear by au agreed statement of facts, if made a
part of the record, or in a special verdict, if put in due form;
but eVen when all these are wanting it is no cause for dismissing the suit, because the writ of error issued to a Circuit
Court under that section brings up the whole record, and
their absence only shows that there is no error in the proceedings; and if there is no error in any part of the record
the prevailing party in the Circuit Court is entitled to an
affirmance of the judgment.1
Cases brought here by writ of error to a State court, issued
under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, stand
upon a very different footing, as in such a case it must appear on the face of the. record in express terms or by necessary implication, that some one, at least, of the questions
described in that section did arise in the State court, and
that the question so appearing in the record was decided in
the State court, as required in that section ; and if it does
not so appear in the record, then this court has no jurisdicj Taylor v. Moreton, 2 Black, 484.
Minor et al. v. Tillotson, 1 Howard, 287; Stevens v. Gladding, 19 Id. 64.

* 1 Stat. at Large, 84.

Dec. 1869.]

NEw ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.

261

Opinion of the court.

tion of the case, and in that event the writ of error must be
dismissed; as this court, under those circumstances, has no
power either to reverse or affirm the judgment rendered in
the State court.*
Certain errors in judicial proceeding can only be examined
in an appellate court when they are shown by a bill of exceptions,-as where proper testimony is rejected or where
improper testimony is admitted,-but there may be error in
the proceedings of a subordinate court apparent in the record for which the judgment will be reversed in an appellate
tribunal, although they are not shown by a bill of exceptions
and do not appear in an agreed statement of facts or by demurrer or in,a special verdict,-as where the original process was unauthorized by law, or where the defendant was
not served with process, or where the proceedings under the
process were irregular and void. Such were the rules of the
common law, and they have been adopted and applied in
this court in repeated cases.t
Whatever the error may be and in whatever stage of the
cause it may have occurred it must appear in the record or
proceedings, as before explained, or be shown by a bill of
exceptions, agreed statement of facts, demurrer, or special
verdict. I
Two thousand bonds for the sum of one thousand dollars
each were, on the first of April, 1859, issued by the plaintifh
in error, falling due in thirty years, with interest at eigL t
per cent. payable semi-annually in coupons for the proper
amount. Their road was completed at that time from Algiers, opposite the city of New Orleans, to Berwick Bay, a
distance of eighty miles, and they mortgaged the same, together with the road-bed of the main track and branches
Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Id. 440; Taylor v. Moreton, 2 Black, 483;
1 Stat. at Large, 85.
t Slacum v. Pomeroy, 6 Cranch, 221; Garland v. Davis, 4 Howard, 181;
Bennet v. Butterworth, 11 Id 669; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheaton, 433;
Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Howard, 483.

t

1 Chitty on Pleading, 431; 1 Tidd's Practice, 586; United States v.

Eliason, 16 Peters, 291.

262

NEw ORLEANS RAILROAD V. MORGAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and the depots and the lands appertaining thereto, to secure
the payment of the bonds. On the twenty-third of February, 1869, Charles Morgan filed his petition in the Circuit
Court, averring that he was the holder of a certain number
of these bonds and of a large number of coupons which
were past due, and an order was made on that petition, on
the thirtieth of March following, that the corporation plaintiffs, on three days' notice, pay to the petitioner, the defendant in error, two hundred and sixteen thousand dollars, and
the cost of the proceedings, and that in default of such payment the mortgaged property might be seized and sold according to law for the whole of the debt secured by the
mortgage. Payment, as thus summarily ordered, was not
made, and thereupon a writ of seizure was issued by the
court, and the whole of the mortgaged property was seized
by 'the marshal and sold, and the petitioner became the
purchaser of the same at the sale.
It is contended by the plaintiffs that the process and all
the proceedings in the Circuit Court were irregular and
void and that the same should be set aside, but the court
will not determine that question at this stage of the controversy, because it is clear that if the views of the plaintiffs
are correct, and the judgment is a final one, it must be
reversed. Questions of reversal or affirmance appertain to
the merits of the controversy, and will not be determined
upon a motion to dismiss.
But the defendant insists that the judgment is not a final
one, and that the writ of error should be dismissed on that
ground.
On the first of June, 1869, the plaintiffs for the first time
appeared on the law side of the Circuit Court, and filed their
petition in the nature of an audia querela, averring that the
-executory process could not be legally ordered without notice; that the order was made without notice and without
proper evidence and parties; that the subject of the suit was
only cognizable in equity, and prayed that the validity of
said proceedings may be examined, and that they be restrained and suspended by a writ until a final order herein.

Dec. 1869.]

DEFaY v. 0CRAY.
Syllabus.

Hearing was had on the petition and the coul't having
duly considered the petition and exhibits submitted by the
petitioner in this cause, and " being satisfied that the prayer
thereof cannot be granted, it is ordered and decreed that the
said petition be dismissed with colts."
Judgment rendered June 14th, 1869. Judgment signed
June 18th, 1869.
The forms of verdicts and judgments, it is true, are not
controlled, even in Louisiana, by the State law, but there
must be some variation from the form of a judgment as at
common law to render it appropriate to the form of the process adopted in that circuit. Common law suits as well as
suits in equity are commenced in that court by petition, and
the judgment in this case is in a form not unusual in that
court. It is called a judgment in the record and treated as
such by the court and the parties, and in our opinion the
writ of error ought not to be dismissed for either of the
reasons assigned in the motion.
MOTION DENIED.

DEERY V. CRAY.
1. A deed which referred to a plat of the land for one of the lines of the
boundary, may be read in evidence to the jury without the production of the plat, subject to an identification of such line by competent
evidence during the progress of the trial.
2. A deed which refers to such a plat for one line, or which authorizes the
line to be run by a certain person according to such a plat, is not void
for uncertainty on its face.
3. In case of such a deed made a great many years ago, though the plat is
not produced, it is competent to show by other proof, written or parol,
or both, that such a line existed and where it was located.
4. This may be shown by long possession on each side of the line evidenced
by a fence, by the parol declarations of the parties holding under the
deed on each side of the line, or by any facts which clearly establish the
existence of such a line and its location.
5. The erroneous instruction of the court in regard to the effect of a deed
of mortgage on the plaintiff's title, is no ground for reversal, when this

