454

THE

CLINTON BRIDGE..

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

sought in Congress, as Congress and not the courts possesses
the power to lay and co llect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, and to pass all laws Which shall be necessary and
proper to carry that power into execution.
Extended remarks respecting the case of .Rankin v. -Hoyt*
need not be made, as the statement of the fact shows that
the appraisers in that case added to the value expressed in
the invoice, and the decision was fbunded upon the. act of
the fourteenth of July, 1832, which did not contain the provision that the duties should not under any circumstances
be assessed upon an amount less than the invoice or entered
value, and consequently it is not an authority which controls the present case.
Comment upon the fifth section of the tariff act under
Which the goods were imported in this case may also be
omitted for reasons of a like character, as the section must
be construed in view of the proviso of the amendatory act
passed on the same day, which prohibits both the appraisers
and the collector from making any reduction in the invoice
or entered value in the assessment of ad valorem duties.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE

CLINTON BRIDGE.

1. An act of Congress enacting that a certain bridge, already built over a
river which divides two States, "shall be a lawful structure, and shall
be recognized and known as a post-route," means not only that the
bridge shall be a post-route, but also that, as built, with its abutments,
piers, superstructure draw, and height, it should have the sanction of

law, and be maintained'and used in that condition. This, although
the act was declared by its title to be simply an act declaring the bridge
"a~post-route."
2. A suit in chancery begun previously to the passage of the act, praying
injunction against building of the bridge as a nuisance, is abated by
such an act; though pleas and replication hdd been filed, proofs taken,
and the case ready for hearing.
8. The act is constitutional.
* 4 Howard, 327.

Dec. 1870.]

THE CLINTON BRIDGE.
Statement of the case.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Iowa.

Gray filed a bill in equity in the court below against the
Chicago, Iowa, and Nebraska Railroad Company, to enjoin
them from building a railroad bridge across the Mississippi
River, at the town of Clinton, situate on its banks on the
Iowa or western side, and extending to a point opposite on
the eastern or Illinois side. Railroads in each State came
to the termili of the bridge. After setting out the interest
which the complainant had in the free and unobstructed
navigation of the river, and the serious danger and obstruction to the navigation by the erection 6f the bridge, the
bill concluded with a prayer for a temporary injunction
against the defendants, enjoining them from building the
bridge until the final hearing of the cause, and for a perpetual injunction on the final hearing. Answers and replications were put in, and a large amount of proofs were taken
by both parties. When the cause came on for a final hearing the counsel for the defendants objected to the proofs of
the complainant being read, on the ground that, since the
erection of the bridge, Congress had passed an act declaring
it a lawful structure.
The act of Congress thus relied on as concluding the case,
and which was, passed 27th February, 1865, was entitled
"An Act declaring Clinton Bridge across the Mississippi
River, at Clinton, in the State of Iowa, a post-route." It ran
thus:
"SEc. 1. The bridge across the Mississippi River, erected
by the Albany Bridge Company and Chicago, Iowa, and Nebraska Railroad Company, under the authority of the States of
Iowa and Illinois, between the towns of Clinton, Iowa, and
Albany, Illinois, shall be a lawful structure,and shall be recognized
and known as a post-route, upon which also no higher charge shall be
made for the transmission over the same of the mails, the troops, and
the munitions of war of the United States than the rate per mile paid
for their tranqportationover the railroads or public highways leading to said bridge.
"SEc. 2. The draw of said bridge shall be opered promptly
upon reasonable signal for the passage of boats, whose construe.

THE CLINTO

BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

tion shall not be such as to admit of their passage under the
permanent spans of said bridge, except when trains are passing
over the same; but in no case shall unnecessary delay occur in
opening said draw during or after the passage of trains.
"Sx c. 3. In case of any litigation hereafter arising from any
alleged obstruction to the free navigation of said river, the cause
may be tried' before the Circuit Court of the United States of
any State in which any portion of said obstruction or bridge
touches.
"SEc. 4. The right to alter or amend this act, so as to prevent or remove all material obstructions to the navigation of
said river, by the construction of said bridge, is hereby expressly
reserved."
Thebridge had been completed before the passage of the
act.
The court below sustained the objection made to the reading of the plaintiff's proofs; holding that the act was conclusive of the case, and refused to hear any evidence going
to prove that the bridge was a materiAl' obstruction to the
navigation of the Mississippi, or to sustain any of the facts
set out in the bill, and dismissed it accordingly. Thereupon
the complainant brought the case here.
Mr. T. D. Lincoln, for the appellant:
The act did not intend to abate the suit. Itis not usual
for the legislature to pass statutes that shall dispose of particular cases pending. No act should be construed as doing
this, unless no other fair construction can be given. And as
here the third section of the very act provides for litigation
thereafter to arise in reference to the bridge as an obstruction, the act can hardly be construed as preventing a right
to litigate.
The statute did not intend to do more than to declare
generally, that a bridge at the point named in it was a lawful structure for the purposes therein stated; the purposes,
namely, of a post-route.
The object of the law, as declared by its title, was simply
to provide that the bridge should be a post-route. Certainly,

Dec. 1870.]

THE CLINTON BRIDGE.
Argument for the appellant.

if anything more was intended it was not expressed in the
title, of which the object in all statutes is to tell what the
purpose and intent of the statute is.
Numerous acts have been passed from time to time establishing post-routes upon common and plank roads, upon
waters (river, lake, canal, and ocean); and, what is more
pertinent, of late upon railways; all this being done sometim6s by acts embracing general classes of routes;* sometimes by acts giving a description of the route by name.
,One act respecting railroads was that of July 7th, 1838,t
by which it was declared "that every railroad within the
limits of the United States, which now is or hereafter may.
be completed, shall be a post-route, and the Postmaster-General shall cause the mail to be transported thereon," &c.
Examination of these numerous statutes will show that
their object was simply to make it lawful for the PostmasterGeneral to establish post-offices and to .contract for carrying
the mail, and that they had no other purpose whatsoever.
Now the words here are not inapt words to express the idea
of these laws. They do not necessarily mean more, especially when it is observed that the words "lawful structure"
are directly connected with the words "and shall be recognized and known as a post-routO;" and with these words,
"upon which also no higher charge shall be made for transmission over the same of the mails," &c., "than over the
railroads and public highways leading to said bridge." It
must be remenibered, too, that the roads leading to the
bridge had been made post-roads by other acts.
Suppose Congress had passed a law entitled," An act to
establish post-roads," and had in the first section thereof
declared that all roads, turnpikes, plank-roads, railroads,
and canals, and all the rivers of the United States, over
which any interstate commerce is carried, shall be lawful
structures, and be known and designated as post-roads, and
* See: act of May 8, 1794i 1 Stat. at Large, 857; of May 1, 1810, 2 Id.
549; of 27 February, 1816, 8 Id. 220; of March 8, 1847, 9 Id. 200, 645; of
March 3, 1858, 10 Id. 255.
t J 2, 5 Id. 283.

THE CLINTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

that no greater toll should be paid than had heretofore been
paid oil the railroad from Washington to Baltimore,-such
an act would not differ from the one in question. And
would any one say that such an act was intended to legalize
all the roads in the country (except to make them legal postroads), and that the courts could not entertain a suit by an
individual to abate some. portion of one of these roads as a
nuisance specially injurious to him; and that no judicial
inquiry could be made as to the manner in which any of
these roads had been constructed, or the bridges over the
rivers made?
The sort of language which Congress employs when it
wishes to make a bridge a lawful structure generally can be
seen in the act respecting the Wheeling bridge. In that case
this court had declared the bridge an obstruction to nav'igation upon the ground that the span over the main channef
between Zane Island and Wheeling was too low to let the
chimneys of steamers under, and it was ordered to be abated
unless this span was raised to the given height.*
Thereupon Congress, by an act whose title was for a fiscal
purpose, specified and "for other purposes," enacted in its
sixth section that the said bridges
"Are hereby declared to be lawful structures in their present
position and elevation, and shall be so held and taken to be, anything in any law or laws of the United States to the contrary
notwithstanding."

The seventh section provided that the said bridges-should
be post-routes for the passage of the mails, and then proceeded:
"And that the Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Company are
authorized to have and maintain their said bridges at their
present site and elevation; and the officers and crews of all
boats navigating the said river are required to regulate the
use of said vessels and boats, and of any pipes and chimneys
* Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling, &c., Bridge Co., 18 Howard, 569, 578;

S. C., 18 lb. 421.

Dec.1870.]

THE CLINTONq BRIDGE.
Argument for the appellant.

belonging theret6, so as not to interfere with the elevation and
construction of said bridges."
Such language leaves no room for doubt that the act was
intended to reach the very question decided by the court.
It is not intimated in our statute that the bridge was to
be maintained as it then was, or in its then condition, or that
navigators must conform their boats to it. The fourth section is a plain intimation to the contrary. It leaves open
the right to amend the act so as to prevent and remove all
material obstruction to the navigation of the river, by the
construction of the bridge.
Now what are the consequences of the construction set
up? One is, that no suit by any such person for loss or damage occasioned to his property by the bridge can be maintained. Private rights are in effect* taken away without
compensation. This is a consequence in violation of common and public law; a consequence which, if it may follow
precise and unequivocal terms, such as were used in regard
to the Wheeling bridge, can never follow doubtful ones.
No court would construe any statute to have these effects
where it could well avoid it.
In its more immediate consequence the construction set
up makes the act the exercise of :at least a quasi judicial
function. It works an abatement of a pending suit, so as to
put an end to any further prosecution of it, and so as to put
an end to any further inquiry as to the obstruction caused by
the bridge. Whether this is not the exercise of a complete
actual judicial function, land whether, if it be, it is not unconstitutional, is a point which we consider hereafter. But
if it be less, and can be sustained, such legislation goes to
the verge of the Constitution. It is unusual, doubtful, inexpedient, and not to be presumed to have passed, except a
purpose to pass it be clearly indicated.
Possibly enough some artful person, interested in maintaining the existence of the bridge, may have dictated the
language of the act, and did intend slyly to produce the
exact effect which is now sought to be maintained; but if

THE CLINTON BRIDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

the words "lawful structure," r.elied on, have come into
the law by the covert design of the draftsman, it needs no
case to show of what value such an enactment is. The
question is, what did Congress mean? Now, in the construction of laws, there are certain leading rules of interpretation. Among them are these:
1st. The title to the act may be resorted to in case of any
doubt as to the true meaning of the law.
2d. The act shall be construed with reference to the laws
upon the same subject, and to the declared purpose of the act.
3d. The whole statute must be construed together, and
one part of it cannot be so construed as to be inconsistent
with another part of it.
4th. The consequences of any given construction are to
be considered where there is fair room for doubt.
5th. No act should be so construed as to take away private rights without compensation, if any other fair construction can be given it.
6th. No act should be so construed as to leave it of doubtful constitutionality where such construction can be fairly
avoided.
Opposing counsel construe this statute so as to violate each
one of these rules.
II.If our view in which the act is to be construed is
wrong, and the construction set up on the other side is a
right one, we deny that Congress had, constitutionally,
power to pass such an act. Construed thus, it has found as
a fact that the bridge, as it stands, is a lawful structure, in
such sense as to prevent the plaintiff from prosecuting a suit
which he had then pending against this railroad company.,
The law is not one affecting the jurisdiction of the court, or,
as in the case Ex parte McArdle* (a case which went to the
verge of law), taking it away in a certain class of cases then
pending. If it so finds the bridge a lawful structure as to
put an end to this suit, it is the exercise of a judicial function, and in no sense a legislative act. A law is "a rule of
7 Wallace, 606.

Dec. 1870.]

TiE

CLINTON BRIDGE.

Argument for the appellant.

action prescribed by the supreme power in a state."* Now,
if this law is to be construed as finding that the bridge is, in
fact, a lawful structure in such sense as to require the court
below to dismiss the suit, what is it but the finding precisely
what the court itself was asked by one of the parties to find
in the case; in other words, the determining a legal question between the parties to a suit then pending in the court?
Suppose the court had, in the sense here contended for, decreed that the bridge was a lawful structure, would not that
necessarily have ended the suit? Can Congress step in and
make such decree by the words, "shall be a lawful structure ?" That is the exercise of a judicial finction, which is
placed by-the Constitution in the courts of the United States.
Such a decree Congress did~make in effect;t and the court
beiow, in obedience to that view of the act, ordered the bill
.dismissed upon the force of the statute, refusing to inquire
into the merits.
The law cannot be sustained as a law regulating commerce
among the States. It is not, in any fair sense, a regulation
of commerce. It does not presribe any rule by which
commerce shall be car led on. It does not provide that it
shall or shall not be carried on over this bridge at all,' or the
conditions upon which itshall be so carried. on. The only
condition in the law relates to the price to be charged for
carrying the mails.
Nor is the bridge, in any fair sense, an instrument of commerce. It is not like the vehicle or vessel in which commerce shall be or is carried on. Nor is it any provision as
to the mode or manner in which the vessel shall be built,
or manned or navigated; nor as to the kind of goods to be
passed over the bridge, or any regulation for bringing this
commerce under the revenue system of the government.
Blackstone's Commentaries, Introduction, 2.
t De Chastellux v. Fairchild, 15 Pennsylvania State, 18; The State 'V.
Fleming, 7 Humphrey, 152; Lewis v. Webb, 3 Greenleaf R. 826; Lanier
v. Gallatas, 13 Louisiana Annual, 176; Holden v. James, 11 Massachusetts,
896; Merrill v. Sherlurne, 1 New Hampshire, 203; Parmelee v. Thompson,
7 Hill, 80; Sanborn v. Commissioners of Rice County, 9 Minnesota, 279.

THE CLINTON BRIDGE.

[Sup, Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The court declined to hear argumentfrom Messrs. J. H. Howe
and .E. Totlin, on the other side.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
.The first section of the act of Congress provides, "that the
bridge across the Mississippi River, erected by the Albany
Bridge Company and the Chicago, Iowa, and Nebraska
Railroad Company, under the authority of the States of
Iowa and Illinois, &c., shall be a lawful structure, and shall
be recognized and known as a post route."
We cannot doubt, upon a perusal of the section, but that it
was the intention of Congress to legalize the bridge as then
constructed across the river, and that the words used carry
out fully this intent. It is declared "a lawful structure;" that
is, the bridge as built, with its abutments, piers, superstructures, draw, and height, should have the sanction of law,
and be maintained and used in that state and condition until
the law was altered by the reserved power in the lastsection.
The act of Congress in the case of the Wheeling Bridge,
whose language it is sought to distinguish from that used in
the present one, was more explicit, but not more comprehensive. In the Wheeling Bridge case the court had rendered a decree, directing the obstuction to be removed by
elevating the bridge, or if not, by abatement. No doubt
the existence of this decree, which was in the process of execution, led to the very specific terms of the act. But with
all its particularity it is not more comprehensive or decisive
in legalizing the bridges than the one before us.
The questions, whether or not it was competent for Congress to interfere and legalize the bridge under the power
to regulate commerce, and whether or not the act put an
end to the pending suit, were questions examined and settled in the offirmative in the case already referred to.* The
reasons for the conclusions arrived at will be there found,
and need not be repeated.
The only difference between the case of the Wheeling
18 Howard, 429;

Dec. 1870.]

THE CLINTON BRIDGE.
Opinia'h of the court.

Bridge and the present one is, that in the former a decree
had been rendered by the court against the bridge, in the
latter the cause was pending undecided. It was, in the
former case, insisted on behalf of the complainant, that the
act of Congress could not invalidate the decree of the court.
But it was answered that the decree of abatement of the obstruction was executory, a continuing decree, which required
not only the rem-oval of the bridge, but enjoined the defendants against any reconstruction. And that whether or not
it would be a future existing obstruction depended upon the
question whether it interfered with the right of free navigation, and that.if, in the meantime, this right had been modified by competent' authority, so that the bridge was no
longer an unlawful obstruction, the decree of the court
cou.ld not be enforced. There was no longer any interference w~ith the enjoyment of the public right inconsistent
with law no more than there would be if the complainant
himself had given his consent after the decree.
In the present case the act of Congress having passed
pending the suit, it gave the rule of decision for the court
at the final hearing upon the same principle that the act in
the Wheeling Bridge case staid the execution of the decree
directing its abatement. The court say in that case that if
the remedy had been an action at law, and a judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff for damages, the right to these
would have passed beyond the power of Congress. And if,
in the present case, the action had been at common law for
damages alleged to have been done to the property of the
plaintiff before the passage of the act of Congress, very different considerations would have arisen as to the effect of
the act upon this private right of action from that upon a
simple proceeding to enjoin the building of the bridge; or,
if built, to abate it as a nuisance.
We think that the ruling of the court below was right,
and that the judgment should be
AFFIRMED.

