THE LULU.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

But all the testimony that was given is in the record, and
we see nothing from which the jury could have infertied any
such contract, or which tends to establish it, and for that
reason no such instruction should have been given.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

THE LULU.
.The Grapeshot(9 Wallace, 129) affirmed on the second point adjudged therein
(pp. 133-141); and the doctrine again declared, that in the case of a lien
asserted against a vessel supplied or repaired in a foreign port, necessity for credit must be presumed where it appears that the repairs and
supplies for which a lien is set up were ordered by the master, and that
they were necessary for -the ship when lying in port, or to.fit her for
an intended voyage, unless it is shown that the master had funds, or
that the owners had sufficient credit, and that the repairer, furnisher,
or lender knew those facts, or one of them, or that such facts and circumstances were 'known to them as were sufficient to put them on
inquiry, and to show that if they had used due. diligence they would
have ascertaitied that the master was not authorized to obtain any such
relief on the credit of the vessel.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
This was a suit in admiralty to enforce a lien claimed
upon the steamer Lulu for repairs made upon her at the request of the master. It *as consolidated with other suits,
all brought by material men for supplies or repairs to the
.vessel to the extent of $8796.21.
The steam vessel was owned in New York, which was
her home port, but employed in the trade between Baltimore, in Maryland, and Charleston, in South Carolina.
When the libel was filed she had been plying in the- trade
about eleven months, that is to say, from April, 1866, to
March, 1867. The repairs and supplies for which satisfaction was sought were furnished in Baltimore during and
.after July, 1866, but chiefly in I ovember and afterwards, at

Dec. 1869.]

THE LULU.
Statement of the case.

fair prices, and were proper and necessary; and there was
no proof whatever that the master had any funds which he
could have applied to procure the repairs and supplies.
In each suit a New, York company filed a claim and answer, asserting a prior right to satisfaction out of the proceeds of the steamer, which under an order of the court had
been sold, bringing but $10,250. The claim of this company
was founded upon a bill of sale, made to it by the former
owners of the vessel (residents of New York also), in consideration of an advance of $12,000, on the 24th of August,
.1866. This bill of sale, though in form absolute, was intended as a mortgage to secure repayment of the advance in
six months from the date, but no part of it had been repaid.
The only question in the case was: " Were the repairs
and supplies in question furnished under such circumstances
as would entitle the material men to the liens which they
claimed?" If they were, this lien was superior to that
created by the bill of sale or mortgage, whether prior or posterior in time, and the mortgage or most of it was cut out.
,The District Court, in which the libel was originally filed,
decreed for the material men; but the case coming before
the Circuit Court, held by the Chief Justice in Novcmber, 1868, and therefore before the recent judgment in The
Grapeshot,* which explained what had been received as law
since The Leurat (Thomas v. Osborn), and more particularly
since The Sullana (Pratt v. Reed), in which last case the
court stated the rule thus :
"The proof of a necessity at the time of procuring a supply
for a credit on the vessel . . is as essential as that of the necessity of the article itself. . . . It is only under very special
circumstances, and in an unforeseen and unexpected emergency,
that an implied maritime hypothecation can be created"and put the dcision of the case upon the ground, not
that the supplies were not necessary, but that there was no,
sufficient proof of necessity for the implied hypothecation
of the vessel, or of any unexpected or unfbreseen exigency
*

9 Wallace, 129.
VOL. X.

t 19 Howard, 28.
13

1Lb. 359.

194

THE LuLu.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the lien.

that required it-the Circuit Court finding itself "Iunable to

make any distinction which had substance" between that
case and the present, felt "constrained" to reverse the decree, and with obvious reluctance deprived the material men
of their lien.
The case was now here on appeal from that reversal, the
case of The Grapeshot being in the meantime decided, and
deciding that if there have been,
1. A necessity for the repairs2. If the credit have been given to the ship and not to the
owner, master, or agent8. Then a presumption of necessity for the credit will
arise, conclusive, in the absence of evidence to the contrary,
if the material man has acted in good faith.
Messrs. Orville Horwitz and G. H. Williams, for the material
men, appellants, relied on the case of The Grapeshot, decided,
as above-mentioned, since the reversal below, a reversal, as
they said, made only in deference to old authorities, now
overruled or explained away by that more recent case. This
was the end of the matter.
But, independently of that, the vessel was mortgaged in
August, 1866, by the owners to the claimants, for about
$2000 more than she was worth, according to the result of
the sale. This mortgage was overdue and unpaid at the
time of the libels filed. So that at the time of the repairs,
confessedly needed, the owners had created a mortgage over
and above the value of the steamer, which they had been
unable to liquidate, and the effort here is to appropriate the
labor and materials of the libellants towards the payment
of that mortgage. Suppose that the onus of showing that
the necessity for credit to the ship existed still remained on
the libellants, the facts prove that those owners could have
obtained no credit in a strange city on their personal responsibility.
Mr. William Meade Addison, contra:
Maritime liens are given but in the interests of commerce,
and are not favored by the courts. They are ailowed only

Dec. 1869.]

T,

8LULU.

195

Argument against the lien.

from the necessities to which vessels in foreign ports may
be exposed. In their origin they were never designed to
apply to vessels in their own country, nor ought they now
to apply to those vessels, which, though in reality belonging
to a common country, are, by a pure fiction, deemed foreign
vessels because owned by citizens of other States than those
where they chance'to be, except in eases of extreme necessity. It was a mooted que3tion, until the decision, A.D. 1819,
in The General Smith,* whether the ships of one State were
foreign as to anotber. If the question were a new one, now
for the first time to be decided, a different rule perhaps
would govern. Certainly in a country of United States, States
separated often only by rivers, each State having ports directly in face of ports of the -other, nothing seems more
unreasonable than now to regard one port as foreign to the
other. The great vessels of New York now have their docks
at Jersey City opposite, for convenience, as 'hose ofPhiiladelphia have theirs at Camden, New Jersey, also opposite, for
the same cause. How unreasonable to say that Jersey City
is a port foreign to New York, and that of Cfmden foreign
to the port of Philadelphia! And since The General Smith
was decided, telegraphs and railways have changed the
whole ground, even as to ports far separated, on which it
was rested. Indeed, if there be anything that is especially
National, and withdrawn from the operation of State laws,
it is a vessel whose home is a port, not a State; whose flag
is that of the Union, and not of any State; where National
officers watch her, and control her, and tax her, and National.
custom-houses constitute the repositories of her papers.
Still with the safeguards thrown around the subject by
the two decisions which it is said that The Grapeshot has
explained away and overruled, we might admit that ships in
one State are foreign as to another. The difficulty of creating
a valid lien obliged the material man to inquire. Presumptions were against him, not in his favor. But if all old safeguards are thrown overboard, as it is said they are by The
4 Wheaton, 443.

196

THE LULU.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Grapeshot, there is great reason for treating as foreign ports
only those ports which are so in fact, and of considering the
power vested in a master to impawn his owner's ship or
goods for necessaries furnished in a foreign port, as what it
was originally declared to be, "a legal indulgence founded on
the urgency of the case, and intended for the general benefit
of commerce,"* and of obliging the person disposed and perhaps eager to trust, to show that he had inquired in the ship's
home port as to whether the master had funds.
Again: 11W here money," says Mr. Justice Bee, "is borrowed on a ship before the voyage is begun, she is not answerable in the admiralty. The law means to favor the completion, not the commencement of a voyage."t Now, the Lulu
while obtaining necessaries in the port of Baltimore must
have made not less than eleven distinct voyages to Charles
ton and back. These repairs and supplies were all made, in
the language above quoted, not "to favor the completion of a
voyage," but "the commencement" of eleven distinct voyages.
To sustain a lien under such circumstances would be an
innovation upon the ancient and well-established principles
of the admiralty law. It will have no precedent to support
it; and arrayed against it are the principles of sound mar,time policy and commercial fair dealing. This court in The
Grapeshot in no wise impairs the force of its language, in
Pratt v. Reid, where it says:
"These maritime 'liens in the coasting business, and in the
business upon the lakes and rivers, are greatly increasing, and
as they are'tacit and secret, are not to be encouraged, but should
be strictly limited to the necessities of commerce which created
them. Any relaxation of this law in this respect, will tend to
perplex and embarrass business rather than furnish facilities to
carry it forward."
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Experience shows that ships and vessels employed in
commerce and navigation often need repairs and supplies in
* Boreal v. Golden Rose, Bee, 132.

t 1b.

Dec. 1869.]

Tim LULU.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

course of a voyage, when the owners of the same are absent,
and at times and places when and where the master may be
without funds, and may find it impracticable to communicate
seasonably with the owners of the vessel upon the subject.
Contracts for repairs and supplies, under such circumstances, may be made by the master to enable the vessel to
proceed on her voyage, and if the repairs and supplies were
necessary for that purpose, and were made and furnished to
a foreign vessel or to a vessel of the United States in a port
other than a port of the State where the vessel belongs, the
primdfacie presumption is that the repairs and supplies were
made and furnished on the credit of the vessel unless the
contrary appears from the evidence in the case.
Where it appears that the repairs and supplies were necessary to enable the vessel to proceed on her voyage, and that
they were made and furnished in good faith, the presumption is that the vessel, as well as the master and owners, is
responsible to those who made the repairs and furnished the
supplies, unless it appears that the master had funds on
hand, or at his command, which he ought to have applied
to the accomplishment of those objects, and that they knew
that such was the fact, or that such facts and circumstances
were known to them as were sufficient to put them upon
inquiry and to show that if they had used due diligence in
that behalf they might have ascertained that the master,
under the rules of the maritime law, had no authority to
contract for the repairs and supplies on the credit of the
vessel.
Repairs and supplies amounting to eight thousand seven
hundred and ninety-six dollars and twenty-one cents, as adjudged by the District Court, were made and furnished by
the various parties mentioned in the record to the steamship
Lulu, at the request of her master, while she was lying in
the port of Baltimore, and the owners of the steamer refusing to pay for the same, those several parties, including
the appellants in this case, filed separate libels against the
steamer in the District Court to recover the amount of their

THE LULU.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

respective claims. Monitions were issued in the several
suits, and the steamer was arrested to answer to the allegations of the respective libels.
Appearance was entered in each suit by the owners of the
steamer as claimaiuts, and on their petition, and pursuant to
the order of the court, the steamer was sold by the marshal
and the proceeds of the sale were paid into the registry of
the court to abide such further order of the court as might
be made in the respective causes.
Answers were filed by the claimants to the several libels
and the suits were subsequently consolidated, and the order
of the court was to the effect that they should be heard
together.
Testimony was taken on both sides and the District Court
entered a decree that the several libels filed in the case, except one, "1be allowed as liens against the steamer to the
amount of the respective claims," and by the decree of distribution the court awarded to the appellants the sum of two
thousand three hundred and thirty-seven dollars and fortysix cents, as appears of record.
Appeal was taken from that decree by the claimants to
the Circuit Court for the same district, where the parties
were again heard, and the Circuit Court reversed the decree
of the District Court and ordered, adjudged, and decreed
that so much of the fund in the registry of the court as was
applicable to the payment of the appellant's claim, under
the decree of the District Court, should be paid to the claimants as the owners of the steamer. Dissatisfied- with that
,decree the libellants appealed from the same to this court,
and now insist that it ought to be reversed.
Prior to the twenty-fourth of August, 1866, the title to
the steamer was in the grantors of the claimants, but the
claimants admit, in their answers, that their grantors, as
well as themselves, were residents of New York, and that
the port of New York was the home port of the steamer.
Whatever title they have was acquired by virtue of a bill
of sale executed on that day, and the record shows that it is
duly recorded in the custom-hopse of that port. Although

Dec. 1869.].

THE LULU.
Opinion'of the court.

the bill of sale is absolute in formn the claimants allege that
it was intended only as a mortgage, but the fact alleged is
of no importance in the decision of the case, as it is admitted
that the former owners, as well as the claimants, were residents of a State other than the one where the repairs were
made and the supplies furnished, and that the steamer belonged to a port of the State.where her owners resided.
When arrested the steamer had been engaged for a period
of eleven months in carrying passengers and freight between the ports of Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, and
Charleston, in the State of South Carolina, and the evidence
is full to the point that the repairs made and the supplies
furnished were necessary to enable the steamer to continue
to make her regular trips between those ports and to thlfil
the obligations to the travelling and commercial public yhich
her owners had contracted. Argumeit upon that topic is
quite unnecessary, as the point is conceded by the claimants,
but they deny that the repairs and supplies were made and
furnished on the credit of the steamer, or that the evidence
shows that there was any necessity for any such credit to
the steamer. -Full proof is exhibited that the repairs were
made and the supplies furnished in the several cases at the
request of the mgster, and there is no proof whatever that
he had any funds which he ought to have applied, or which
he could have applied, to accomplish those objects or any
other.
Attempt is made to show that the agent of the steatzer
had funds derived from freight which might have been so
applied, but the evidence in the case fhils to establish that
theory and satisfies the court that he had no funds of the
owners and that he was not under any obligations to grant
them any further credit for that purpose.
Unless the repairs or supplies, as the case may be, are
necessary to render the ship or vessel seaworthy or to enable
her to prosecute her voyage, it is quite clear that the master,
as between himself and the owners, is not authorized to
make any such contracts or purchases either on the credit

200

THE LULU.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the vessel or her owners. Such necessity usually arises
when the ship or vessel is in a port distant from the owners,
and oftentimes when they have no knowledge or means of
knowledge 4s to the actual condition of the vessel, and it is
chiefly for that reason that. the authority is reposed in the
master to act in their behalf and for the best intetest of all
concerned, but it should be borne in mind that his authority
in that respect is limited to the circle of duties which that
necessity requires should be performed before the owners
can be consulted.
Merchants are not obliged to make advances to the master, nor to make repairs or furnish supplies at his request,
and before they can safely do so they should be reasonably
satisfied that the vessel needs what the master requests them
to make and furnish, as the law supposes that the vessel is
in the port where the request is made., and that they have
the opportunity of making due inquiry and investigation
upon that point.*
Subject to that limitation the master is the agent of the
owners for the voyage, and they are bound to the performance of all lawful contracts made by him relative to the
usual employment of the ship and for repairs made and supplies furnished for her use in a foreign port.t
Ports of States, other than those of the State where the
vessel belongs, are for that purpose considered as foreign
ports, and the authority of the master in contracting for repairs and supplies is not confined to such as are absolutely
or indispensably necessary, but includes also all such as
are reasonably fit and proper for the ship and the voyage.
Where such' repairs and supplies are reasonably fit and
proper the master, if he has not funds and cannot obtain
such on the personal credit of the owners, may obtain the
same on the credit of the ship, either with or without giving
a bottomury bond, as necessity shall dictate. Reasonable dili* 2 Parsons on Shipping, 829; Bold Buecleuch, 7 Moore, Privy Council,
284; Roberts on Admiralty, 395.
f The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 443; The Bark Union, 2 Story, 463;
The Aurora, 1 Wheaton, 102.

Dec. 1869.]

T.Hn LULUT.

Opinion of the court.

gence in either event must be exercised by the merchant or
lender to ascertain that the repairs and supplies were necessary and proper, as the master is not authorized to hypotbe-cate the vessel unless such was the fact within the meaning
of the maritime law.*
Such necessity for repairs and supplies is proved Where
such circumstances of exigency are shown as would induce
a prudent owner, if present, to order them, or to provide
funds for the cost of them on the security of the ship.t
Proof that the repairs and supplies were necessary will
not in any case be sufficient to entitle the furnisher or lender
to recover by a suit in rem against the vessel if it appear that
the master had funds sufficient to execute the repairs and
furnish the supplies, and that the party who made and furnished the same knew that fact, or that facts and circumstances were known to, him sufficient to put him upon
inquiry, and to show tlt if he had used due diligence he
would have ascertained that no funds except such as the
master already possessed were necessary for any such purpose.
Good faith is undoubtedly required of a party seeking to
enforce alien against a vessel for such a claim, but the fact
that the master had funds which he ought to have applied
to that object is no evidence *to establish the charge of bad
faith in such a case unless it appears that the libellant knew
that fact, or that such facts and circumstances were known
to him as were sufficient to put him upon inquiry within the
principles of law already explained.1
Express knowledge of the fact that the master had sufficient
funds for the purpose is not necessary to maintain the charge
of bad faith,,as it is well-settled law that a party to a transaction, where his rights are liable to be injuriously affected
by notice, cannot wiffully shut his eyes to the means of '
knowledge which he knows'are at hand, and thereby escape
The Paragon, Ware, 386; The Fortitude, 3 Sumner, 225.
t The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 141; The Alexander, 1 W. Robinson, 362;
The Medora, 1 Sprague, 139.
$ The Sarah Starr, 1 Sprague, 466.

TE LULU.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the consequences which would flow from the notice if it had
actually been received; or in other words, the general rule
is that knowledge of such facts and circumstances as are
sufficient to put a party upon inquiry, and to show that if
he had exercised due diligence he would have ascertained
the truth of the case, is eqiiivalent to actual notice of the
matter in respect to which the inquiry ought to have been
made.*
None of these rules, however, have any application to a
case where the master had no funds which could be applied
to any such object, as the party making the repairs and furnishing the supplies could not know what was not true in
point of fact, nor could be be put upon any inquiry in respect
to any supposed funds which had no real existence.
Inquiry certainly need not be made as to the necessity for
credit if the master has no funds nor any other means of
repaiving his vessel or furnishing her with supplies, and it
is equally certain that proof of failure to institute inquiries
is no defence to such a claim even if the master had funds,
unless that fact was known to the libellant or such facts and
circumstances were known to him as were sufficient to put
him on inquiry and fairly subject him to the charge of collusion with the master or of bad faith in omitting to avail
himself of the means of knowledge at hand to ascertain the
true state of the case.
Whenever the necessity for the repairs and supplies is once
made out, it is incumbent upon the owners, if they allege
that the funds could have been obtained upon their personal
credit, to establish that fact by competent proof, and that
the libellant knew the same or was put upon inquiry, as
before explained, unless those matters fully appear in the
evidence introduced by the libellant.t
Extended discussion of that question, however, is no longer
necessary, as the principle is conclusively settled by a recent
*May v. Chapman, 16 Meeson & Welsby, 855; Goodman v. Simonds,
20 Howard, 843.
t The Virgin, 8 Peters, 650; The Phebe, Ware, 265; 2 Parsons on Shipping, 333 ; The Nestor, 1 Sumner, 73.

De.

1869.1

THE LULU.
Opinion of the court.

decision of this court. Where proof is made of necessity
for the repairs and supplies, or for funds raised by the master
,to pay for the same, and of-credit given to the ship, a presumption will arise, said the Chief Justice, in the absence
of evidence to the contrary, of necessity for credit.*
Remarks are found in two cases. decided by this court
quite at variance with that rule, but it is unnecessary to
comment upon those cases or to enter into any explanation
of those remarks, as it is clear that if they assert any different
rule of decision they are in that respect directly overruled.t
Whether the master has funds or not is a matter always
known to him, and seldom or never known to merchants in
the port selected by the master as a port for relief, unless
they obtain it from the master. Masters, if they are honest,
will not ask for such assistance when they are supplied with
funds, and if they are dishonest they are not likely to communicate any facts to the merchant which would induce him
to refuse to make the requested advances.
Inquiry as to the credit of the owners of the vessel, except
of the master, would seldom be of any avail unless it was
extended-to the great majority of the merchants resident at
the port of distress, and any rule which should impose that
obligation upon the merchant as a condition to his right of
action to recover the amounit of his advances would in many
cases operate as a denial of justice, as he could better afford
to lose his claim than to incur the expense of making the
required investigation.
Viewed, in any light it is clear that necossity for credit
must be presumed where it appears that the repairs and
supplies were ordered by the master, and that they were
necessary for the ship when lying in port or to fit her for
an intended voyage, unless it is shown that the master had
funds, or .that the owners had sufficient credit, and that the
repairer, furnisher, or lender knew those facts or one of
The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 141; The Barque Mason, 2 Story, 463.
t The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 141; Thomas v. Osborn, 19 Howard, 22;
Pratt v. Reed, lb. 359,; The S&a Lark, 1 Sprague, 571 ; The Prospect, a
Blatchford, 526.

THE ] ALORAMAi

[-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

them, or that such facts and circumstances were known to
them as were sufficient to put them upon inquiry and to
show that if they had used due diligence they would have
ascertained that the master was not authorized to obtain
any such relief on the credit of the vessel. Applying that
rule to the present case the conclusion is inevitable that the
decree in the Circuit Court was erroneous.*
Decree io the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the cause
remanded with instructions to enter a decree
AFFIRMING THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

NOTE.

Soon after the preceding appeal was decided, two other
appeals, both from the same court with it, and with facts
which distinguished them little, if at all, from it in p,'inciple, were adjudged. They were
THE KALORAMA,
THE CUSTER.
1. The Grapeshot (9 Wallace, 129), affirmed a third and a fourth time as to

the second point adjudged by it; the point relating to admiralty liens.
The Lulu, supra, p. 192, also affirmed.

2. 'It is no objection to the assertion in the admiralty of a maritime lien
against a vessel for necessary repairs and supplies to her in a foreign
port, that the owner was there and gave directions in person for them;
the same having been made expressly on the credit of the vessel. The
Guy, 9 Wallace, 758, affirmed:

3. Nor that the libellant have brought a common law action for the value
of the repairs and supplies; the action not being yet determined.
THE case was exactly the same in both these appeals; which
were accordingly argued with one set of briefs, on one set of
depositions, contained in one record; the appeals having been,
Roberts on Admiralty, 210; The Fortitude, 3 Sumner, 268; The Nelson,
1 Haggard, 176.

