Dec.

1870.]

BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

543

Syllabus.

issue the writ.* The seventh section of the act of 1862,t
under which the decree sought to be reviewed was made,
provides that proceedings against the property seized shall
be in rem, and "shall conform as nearly as may be to proceedings in admiralty or in revenue cases." It is too clear
to admit of doubt that the original case was not one in admiralty, and it is equally clear that the proceeding sought
to be prohibited is- not within that category.
The suppleiental case is an elongation of the original
case, and necessarily of the same nature and jurisdictional
character.
These conclusions are fatal to the case of the petitioners.
If the District Court shall err in the proceedings upon the
libel of review, the remedy of the petitioners will be by a
writ of error from the Circuit to the District Court, and, if
need be, finally by a like writ from this court to the Circuit
Court.
The rule is discharged and the
MOTION DENIED.

BALTIMORE

v.

BALTIM01I

RAILROAD.

t. A railroad company wanting to borrow $4,500,000 to complete its unfinished railroad, a city, its chief stockholder, and interested in the
completion, agreed to lend to it the sum. The arrangement resolved
on and carried out was this:

The city was to issu3 and sell, from time to time, as the railroad needed.
the money, its own bonds (having about 35 years to run), for $4,5600,000,
at a price, however, not below par; and was to issue to the commissioners
of its sinking fund similar bonds for $500,000, which, wita the constant
accumulations of interest (to be invested in the purchae of the city

* debt), were to constitute a sinking fund for payment of the whole debt
at maturity. Any premiums which the city might get by the sale of
* United States v. Peters, 8 Dallas, 121; Ex parte Christy, 3 Howard, 292.

t 12 Stat at Large, 689.
$ The Union Insurance Co. v. United States, 6 Wallace, 759; United

States v. Armstrong's Foundry, lb. 766; United States v. Hart, lb. 770p
The Sarah, 8 Wheaton, 391.

544

BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
the loan above par, and any excess .which, at the maturity of the loan,
it might be-found that the city had made by its sinking fund operations,
(above what would be necessary to pay the principal), were to enure to
the benefit of the city treasury.
The railroad company, on its part, was to mortgage its road for $5,000,000;
and to place in the city treasury, at a specified number of days before
each instalment of interest fell due, the sum which the city had to pay
on its $5,000,000 of bonds, and at a certain date before the maturity of
the loan, the amount which should then be due by the city for the principal not yet bought in. By the terms of its contract the railroad company was to pay " all and any expense incidental to the issue of any of
the bonds."
All this took place in 1854. In 1862, Congress passed an excise law,
levying an income tax of 8 per cent. on all sums due for interest by
railroad companies, which sum it required the companies to withhold
from their creditors and pay to the government, making, by a subsequent act-one of June, 1864-such payment a discharge, in terms, from
their creditors for the amount, " except where the companies might
have contracted otherwise.) But no such tax was laid on the bonds of
cities, nor did the act require tihem to withhold anything fron their
creditors. The railroad company, to save itself from being distrained
upon, and giving notice to the city of all that was done, paid the tax
under such protest as by the acts of Congress would authorize a recovery
of it by the city if it was illegally exacted:
Held, that the city did not, under the arrangement between it and the
railroad company, stand in the position of a surety in such way as tlhat
the company was bound to prevent its being prejudiced by events not
anticipatedkwhen the arrangement between the parties was entered into.
2. That the contract of the railroad company to pay " all and any expense
incidental to the issue of any of the bonds," did not oblige it to pay
this tax out of its own money, and so to pay the full interest to the city
discharged of the tax.
8. That whether this was a tax laid on the securities of a municipality, and
whether, if so, it was lawfully laid, was a question which the city was
not in a condition to raise, as the tax having been paid under protest,
and she having received notice of all that was done, could, under the
statutes of the United States, have stepped in and tested the legality of
the assessment and collection, by instituting proper proceedings to
recover the money.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland;
the case being this:
In 1854, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company being
then unfinished, and needing money to complete its road,
-the city of Baltimore, which was a very large stockholder

Dec. 1870.]

BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

545

Statement of the case.

in the road, and greatly interested to have it completed,
agreed, in pursuance of anact of the legislature of Maryland,
which gave it this power, to lend the company $4,500,000;
and, in order to raise the money, to issue the bonds of the
city for $5,000,000, payable in 1890, with interest payable
quarterly, on the first days of certain months named. An
ordinance was accordingly passed by the city authorizing
the loan. It directed that the commissioners of finance of
the city should issue certificates of city debt, or bonds, which
they themselves were to sell, not however below par; and pay
the proceeds of $4,500,000 to the register of the city. With
the money thus put " from time to time " into his hands, the
register was to pay the railroad company the amount that
might be required by it. The remaining $500,000, and its
quarterly interest, as accumulated, were to be reserved as a
sinking fund to redeem the principal of the whole loan. at
maturity. The city at the time owed several other debts incurred in aid of internal improvement; and the ordinance
proceeded:
"If, at the maturity of said bonds, the sinking fund shall have
accumulated to an amount exceeding the prine pal sum of the
loan authorized of $5,000,000, the said excess shall be paid into the
city treasury,for the use of the city, and be applied to the extinguishing the internal improvement debt."
"The premium, if any, that may be received on account of the
sale of the said certificates or bonds, shall be converted into a
sinking fund and invested in the public debt of the city of Baltimore, and so riom time to time, with the interest quarterly
accruingr, to be applied to the payment of the original internal improvement debt of the city."
The railroad company in fulfilment of its part of the contract nortgaged its property to the city; the nmortgage containing a proviso thus:
"Provided, That if the said railroad company do, and shall pay
to the register of the said city, the principal sum of $5,000,000,
less the amount of the sinking fund provided for therein, and its
accumulations, at least one month before the day on which the bonds,
VOL.

X.

85

546

BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

directed by said ordinance to be issued, shall become redeemable, and
shall also pay to the said register interest at the rate of six-per
cent. per annum on the whole amount of said certificates or
bonds issued quarterly, and in advance at least ten days previous
to the first days of the several months mentioned in said ordinance,
which said payment shall commence to be made in advance of
the first payments of interest which shall be required to be made
by the city, on 8aid certificates or bonds, and shall continue to
be made as'aforesaid until the repayment by the said company
to the city, of the principal sums of money which shall or may
be issued as aforesaid; and shall well and truly pay all and any
expense incidental to the issue of any of the bonds as aforesaid, and
shall pay the'expense of recording this indenture of mortgage
in the proper offices, then these presents shall be null and void;
else to remain infull force and effect."
The railroad company having received the money from
the city, paid the interest on its mortgage, as agreed on, and
in full, until October, 1862.
Op the 1st of July in that year,* Congress passed an excise law, levying an income tax of 3 Per cent. on all sums of
money due for interest by a railroad company on its bonds
or other " evidences of indebtedness," and " authorized and
required" such companies to deduct and wi/hhold from all
payments made to any party after the said 1st July, 1862,
the said duty; thus, in effect, constituting the company the
collector of the tax for the United States. A statute of
June 80th, 1864,t enacted that payment over by the railroad
companies should discharge them from that amount of interest, "except where said companies may. have contracted
otherwise."
Neither statute, however, taxed the bonds of municipal
.corporations. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue now
made a demand on the railroad company, for 3 per cent. on
its mortgage to the city, insisting that the mortgage was an
"evidence of indebtedness" within the meaning of the act
of 1862. The company gave notice to the city of this demand, and that if it was enforced by the government, the
*+12 Stat. at Large, 469.

t13 Id. 284.

Dec. 1870.]

BALTIMORE

v.

BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

547

Argument for the city.

company would have to deduct the 3 per cent. from the interest which it had hitherto paid the city. The city objected
to this being done in any event, and the railroad company
and city made a joint attempt to persuade the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue that the case did not come within the
act of .1862. The commissioner did not accept this view,
and to prevent a distress upon it the company paid the tax,
making a protest, however, setting forth fully and specifically the grounds of objection to the demand, "in view," as
the protest declared, "of attempting to recover it under the
provisions of the act of Congress in this connection;" provisions, which, when protest is properly made, authorized
recovery from the government, if the tax have been illegally
exacted. Having thus paid the tax the company deducted
the amount of it from the payments of interest to the city,
and in October, 1864, the city brought this suit to recover
th6 amount thus Withheld. Judgment having been given
in favor of the railroad complny, the city brought the case
here.
Messrs. W. R Norris and G. H. Chandler, for the city,
plaintiff in error:
1. The case shows that the position of the city in relation
to the railroad was that of a surety. The transaction was
in fact but a loan of credit for the benefit of the railroad.
The bonds of the city were of a higher market value than
bonds of the railroad, though of no higher real value; and
so the city issues its bonds; the company stipulating that it
will always pay to the register of the city, at least ten days
before it becomes due, the interest on its mortgage (being
the same sum exactly which the city has to pay on its
bonds), so that without raising a cent by taxation the city
might pay this large sum of interest; and the railroad agreeing also that when the principal is about to fall due it will
put into the city treasury a month before it is actually due
all principal not redeemed by the operations of the sinking
fund., This is a pure loan of credit.
Independently, therefore, of the express stipulations, to

548

BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the city.

be referred to hereafter, the road company was bound by
the nature of the transactions to indemnit the city, as if
the form of principal and surety had 'been carried out. By
that relation the situation of a surety can never be more
onerous than that of the principal.
The possibility of taxation should have been foreseen by
the principal, and it is a part of his obligation to indemnify
the surety.* If there is any hardship in the taxation, it is
one which the borrower contracted to bear and is a part of
the obligation of his contract.t
2. The contract expressly provided. "that all 'and any expense incidental fo the issue of any of the bonds" shall be
chargeable to and paid by the railroad company.1 Congress
never intended to give the power to deduct the tax by the
debtor when the debtor had contracted to pay all expenses
incidental to the loan. It did not propose to alter contracts,
but merely to use the debtor as an agency to collect the tax
from the oreditor whom it intended to tax, and it made that
purpose very obvious by its act of June 30th, 1864. In
this case the railroad company has " contracted otherwise."
3. The tax was not to be deducted in this case, because
Congress did not intend double taxation of the game fund.
It had no right to use municipalities as agencies for collection,
they being political bodies not liable to their service. Accordihgly no power was given to the municipality to deduct

ihe tax from., the holders of its bonds, for Congress has not
attempted to employ it as a collecting agency. It paid full
interest to its bondholders without abatement, and they are
taxed.on that income in their returns. Is not the fund
double taxed?
4. The city, in the exercise of a function of government
delegated by the State, had issued its bonds and borrowed
money of the purchasers, which was brought into the muMaltby v. Reading and Columbia Railrodd Co., 52 Pennsylvania State,
148-9
t Derxnott v. Jones, 2 Wallace 8; United States v. Keehler, 9 Wallace,
88.
$ Catawissa Railroad Co. v. Titus, 49 Pennsylvania State, 277-281.

Dec. 1870.] BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

549

Argument for the railroad company.

nieipal treasury. Repayment was secured by the delegated
power of taxation. For the promotion of a public purpose,
"a State object" constitutionally adequate to justify taxation, the money thus raised was lent, under a specific scheme
for its reimbursement, to a private corporation as an agency
to effect this public purpose. The debt, by being thus due
to the territorial political agency of the State, is due to the
State, so as not to be taxable by the National government,
and it is to be assumed was not intended to be taxed by the
Internal Revenue Act.

Mr. J. I. B. Latrobe, contra:
The mortgage was given in 1854, at which time there
was no income tax nor the expectation of one by any man.
It comes to us as an incident of our civil war. The "expense incidental to the issue of any of the bonds" was such
expense.and such alone, as related to the preparation of
them, and suchl books and clerk hire as might be required
in connection with them.
While the doctrine that a surety shall not be prejudiced
by contingencies not anticipated at the time of creating the
relation, is true as a general one, it is not true to the extent
of vacating a contract such as exists here, where the parties
declare whaf shall be their respective rights and liabilities.
But the doctrine has no application to this case. The
city was not a surety. Had she guaranteed bonds issued
by the railroad company, had she even placed her own
bonds lent to the company, in tha hands of the latter, there
might be ground, perhaps, for saying that the city was a
surety only. But, when besides issuing her own bonds, she
retained the possession of them, and sold them only when
required to pay from time to time the moneys wanted by
the company, the transaction is that of a principal borrowing money to lend it again; in this instance to aid in the
promotion of an object in which such principal was deeply
interested.
Or, had the ordinance provided that the mortgage should
be released or become void so soon as the accumulations

550

BALTIMORE

v.

BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the sinking fund amounted to the entire debt of $5,000,000, it might have beenargued, that the city was a surety
only, having no interest but to secure itself from loss. But
the ordinance shows, that so far as the city iA concerned, the
transaction in one aspect is for her own benefit apart friom
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company altogether. It
directs all excess of the sinking fund, and all the premiums,
if any, to go into the city treasury.
The transaction was intended as an operation by which the
city, if the commissioners of finance performed their duty
by making judicious investments, would be a gainer, and be
furnished with the means of discharging a debt with which
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company was unconnected,
the general internal improvement debt of the city.
By the ordinance the commissioners of finance were required to invest the interest and premium, if any, received
by them, in the public debt of the city. Now, if the calculation which fixed the amount of the sinking fund and the
length of the loan was based upon sales and purchases at
par, the ability of the finance commissioners to invest at
rates 8 and 10 per cent. below par (which it may be stated
that as a matter of fact they have been able to do), would
leave a large surplus in the hands of the city in 1890, to be
applied to its general debt.
We agree that the tax is illegally laid, and we have paid
it only to save a distress on us and under protest. If we
recover it, we' will pay it to the city, or the city using our
protest can proceed, itself, to recover it.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended, on the part of the city, that if the tax in
question be a lawful exaction by the United States, the
burden of it must be borne by the company, and that the
obligation of the company to the city is not changed by reason of the imposition and collection of the tax. Whether
this be so or not, depends on the nature of the contract between the parties, for the company was authorized to withhold the tax, unless it had contracted with the city to pay

Dec. 1870.]

BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

' 551

Opinion of the court.

it.* The position taken by the city is, that the company
was bound to pay the full amount of the interest without
deduction, because of the following words in the defeasance
clause of the mortgage: "And shall pay all and any expense
incidental to the issue of any of the bonds." It is, therefore, necessary to construe these words, and there is no difficulty about it, when we consider the subject-matter about
which they were employed. The word expense may mean
one thing in one case and quite a different thing in another.
Its meaning in this case cannot be mistaken.
To carry out the -arrangement between the parties required a considerable expenditure of money for printing,
clerk hire, stationery, advertising, and similar matters.
These expenses were incidental to the issue of the bonds,
and it was right and proper that the railroad company-the
party to be benefited by the transaction-should pay them.
And it agreed to do so; but this agreement cannot be extended to cover the tax in question, for in no sense is it an
expense incidental to the issue of the bonds. At the date
of the mortgage (1854) there was no tax of the kind, nor any
reasonable expectation of one. If there had been, it is easy
to see that appropriate words applicable to the subject would
have been used. But the words which were used did not
relate to the subject of taxation at all, and it is very certain
that the possibility of taxation was not in the contemplation
of either of the parties to the mortgage.
It is unnecessary to discuss the general rules of law affecting the relations of principal and surety, and to show in
what state of case a surety is required to save his principal
from loss, because these rules are not applicable to this
case. It is always competent for parties capable of entering into a business arrangement to fix the terms of it, and
to declare what shall be their respective rights and liabilities under it. If the court can in any case see that this has
been done, it is required to give effect to the contract which
the parties chose to make for themselves, although, in the
18 Stat. at Large, 284.

552

BALTIMORE V. BALTIMORE RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

absence of a special agreement on the subject, the rule to
determine the rights of the parties might be different.
The parties to this suit have made a contract in relation
to a matter of interest to both, and have settled what each
shall do. To hold one of them responsible for contingencies not provided for, and not even anticipated when the
contract was executed, would be to disregard instead of
giving effect to the will of the parties.
It is contended, however, by the city, that the securities
of a municipality like Baltimore are not taxable by the
National government, and therefore the tax in question was
an unlawful exaction. This presents an important question ;
but the city is not in a condition to raise it, and, under the
circumstances, can have no cause of action against the company for paying the tax. It is difficult to see in what respect the company fhiled to discharge its duty in regard to
this subject. It occupied the position of a stakeholder,
owing the money either to the city or the United States, and
wholly indifferent to which of the parties it should be paid.
It notified the city that the United States were enforcing
the cbllection of the tax, and did not pay it until it was
obliged to do so to avoid the consequences provided for in
the act in case of refusal, and not then, without a wiritten
protest stating distinctly all the grounds of objection claimed
by the city to the assessment and collection of the tax. In
this condition of things, if the city felt itself aggrieved by
the action of the officers administering the internal revenue
laws in a matter of interest to it and not the company, it
should have stepped in, and taken upon itself the burden
of testing the legality of the assessment and collection of
this tax, by instituting proper proceedings to recover back
the money. This it was authorized to do by these laws,
which not only provide for the manner of collecting the
revenue, but also furiiish a mode ofredress to the party who
has suffered injury by their administration.*
City of Philadelphia v. The Collector, 6 Wallace, 731; Nichols v. United
ttates, 7 Id. 130-1; The Assessors v. Osborne, 9 Id. 671.

Dec. 1870.]

PENNSYLVANIA V. QUICKSILVER COMPANY.

;553

Statement of the case.

If there were injury at all, the city sustained it, and, as it
did not avail itself of the privilege to sue, it cannot turn
round and litigate the legality of the tax with the railroad
company. This tax was exacted under color of law, and the
company, having notified the city of the demand of the
United States and the proceedings taken to enforce it, and
having protested against its collection, were justified in paying it.
And it cannot be required in this state of case, on its own
behalf, to test the correctness of the ruling of the revenue
officers.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PENNSYLVANIA V. QUICKSILVER COMPANY.
1. In a suit against a corporation by one State, an averment that the defendant is a body politic by the law of another State, named end "doing
business'' in it, is not sufficient to give jurisdiction to this court.
2. This court has no original jurisdiction of a suit brought by a State against
its own citizens.

ON motion to dismiss an original writ:
The first clause of the second section of the third article
of the Constitution ordains that the judicial power shall extend to certain cases named, and among them "to controversies between a State and the citizens of another State."
The -second clause of this same section provides:
"That in all cases affecting ambassadors, &c., and those in which
a State shall be a party, the Supreme Court shall have original
jurisdiction," and that "in all the other cases before mentioned
it shall haye appellate jurisdiction."
The 13th section of the Judiciary Act provides:
"That the Supreme Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of
all controversies of a civil nature where a State is a party, except between a State and its citizens, and except also between

