Dec. 1869.]

TEXAS V). CHILES.

Statement of the case.

TEXAS V.

CHILES.

Motion made on the foot of a decree against a d e fendant to compel an
account, when the decree, by its terms, limited the accounting to the
date of service of process in the suit, denied, where the property for
which the account was asked Was received (if received at all) after such
service, and where, in addition, the original decree, which charged all
those defendants against whom proofs existed, did not charge the one
now sought to be charged, and where the proofs on the motion were no
other than the proofs at the original hearing.

THE State of Texas filed a bill, February 15, 1867, against
White, Chiles, and several others, to recover possession of
some one hundred and eighty-five United States "Texas Indemnity Bonds" for $1000 each, charged to have been illegally obtained by them. Chiles having been served, put in
his answer on May 25th, 1867, in which he accounted specifi'cally for some fifty-one of the bonds. The court decreed
that the complainant was entitled to recover the possession
of the bonds transferred to White & Chiles, which, at the
several times of service of the process in the suit, were in the possession or control of the defendants respectively, or of any
proceeds, &c., with notice of the equity; and then proceeded
to determine for how many and :for which bonds, or their proceeds, the defendants respective!5y were accountable. But no
decree, was entered against Chiles for either bonds or proceeds.*
Mr. Durant, for the State of Texas, now made a motion on
the foot of the decree for a rule on Chiles to show cause why
he should not deliver to the clerk of this court twelve of
these bonds, which it was charged that he had in his possession and had not accounted for.
The only proofs furnished upon which the rule was prayed
for were the answer of White, a co-defendant, and a deposition of one McKinley, all in the original case, and an affidavit
of one George Taylor, produced on this motion. The deposition of McKinley showed that some time in the summer of
See the report, with the decree, 7 Wallace, 700, 741.

TEXAS V.

CHILES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

1867 he thought he delivered to Chiles ten bonds that had
been deposited with him as a banker about a year previous
for a third person on certain conditions, which had not been
complied with. According to the affidavit of Taylor, Chiles
admitted to him that he had received of E. K.. Thompson,
cashier of the Branch Bank of Kentucky, two bonds, after
the service of the injunction in the case, and which he said he
held subject to the order of the court.
M]ir. Hughes opposed the motion.
Mr. Justice NELSON, having recapitulated thefacts, delivered the opinion*of the court.
The answer of White, which is one of the proofs on which
the present rule is prayed for, not being competent evidence
against a co-defendant, needs no notice.
No decree was entered against Chiles for bonds or proceeds, although the same evidence was then before this
court, as it respects ten of the bonds in question, as is presented in support of this motion. It would seem, therefore,
that in the judgment of the court the'pleadings and proofs
furnished no ground, legal or equitable, for charging him
personally in respect to either the bonds or proceeds.
We may add that the twelve bonds, sought to be brought
before the court under the rule to show cause, founded upon
the suggestion at the foot of the decree, were received by
Chiles after the filing of the bill in February, 1867. The
decree, in terms, limits the accounting of the defendants to
bonds in their possession at the several times of the service
of the process in this suit. The case, therefore, presented
is not within the scope Or tenor of the decree.
MOTION DENIED.

