RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The defendants have, in fact, presented for our consider
ation a possible, but not an actual ques'tion, one which may
hereafter arise under the ordinance, but which has not arisen
as yet; at least the record does not aver any facts which show
that it has arisen, and we cannot indulge in presumptions
to supply the omissions of material averments.
The second question presented in the statement depends
for its solution upon the construction of local statutes, and
does not involve the consideration of any act of Congress,
or any provision of the Constitution of the United States.
We are of opinion that no question is raised by the record
which this court can consider under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act, and the writ of error must, thereDISMISSED.

fore, be

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.
1. When a common carrier shows that a loss was by some vis major, as by
flood, he is excused without proving affirmatively that he was guilty of
no negligence.
2. The proof of such negligence, if the negligence is asserted to exist, rests
on the other party.
S. In case of a loss of which the proximate cause is the act of God or the
public enemy, the common carrier is excused though his own negligence
or laches may have contributed as a remote cause.
4. The maxim causa proxima non remota spectatur applies to such cases as to
other contracts and transactions; and ordinary diligence is all that is
required of the carrier to avoid or remedy the effects of the overpowering cause.
5. The mere promise of a carrier, without additional consideration, to forward freight already on the route by an earlier train than usual, is not
evidence. from which a jury can infer a special contract to do so,

IN error to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Tennessee, the case being this:
Reeves sued the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company as a common carrier for damage to a quantity of
tobacco received by it for carriage, the allegation being
negligence and want of due care. The tobacco came by rail
from Salisbury, North Carolina, to Chattanooga, Tennessee,

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.
Statement of the case.

reaching the latter place on the 5th of March, 1867. At
Chattanooga it was received by the Meniphis and Charleston
Railroad Company on the 5th of March, and reloaded into
two of its cars, about five o'clock in the afternoon.
IThe Memphis and Charleston Railroad track extends from
Memphis to Stevenson, Alabama, a point west of Chattanooga, on the Nashville and Chattanooga' Railroad. Between Chattanooga and Stevenson, by a contract between
the two companies, the trains of the Memphis and Charleston road were drawn by engines belonging to the last-named
road, an agent of the road being at Chattanooga and receiving freight and passengers there for Memphis.
One Pr.ce, who as agent of Reeves was attending and
looking after the tobacco along the route, testified (though
his, testimony on this point was contradicted) that the agent
of the company at Chattanooga promised that, if the bills
were brought over in time, the tobacco should go forward
at six o'clock that evening ; and shortly before that time informed him that the bills had come over, and assured him
that the tobacco would go off at that hour. It did not do so,
though he, Price, the agent, supposing that it would, went
on by a passenger train and so could no longer look after
the tobacco. By the time-tables which governed at the time
the f rwarding of freight, goods received during one day
were forwarded the next morning at 5.45 A.M., and at that
time the train on which the tobacco in question was placed
went off. This train, however, found the road obstructed
by rocks that had fallen during the niqht and had to return,
and in consequence of information of the washing away of
a bridge on the road, had to remain at Chattanooga. Chattanooga is built on low ground, on the Tennessee River, which,
a short distance west of it, runs along the base of Lookout
Mountain. On the 5th of March there had been heavy rains
for some weeks, and the river had been rising and was very
high. Freshets of the years 1826 and 1847, the highest ever
remembered previous to one now to be spoken of, or of
which there was any tradition, had not risen by within three
feet as high as the level of the railroad track in the station
vol,. x.

12

178

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVEs.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

where the cars containing the tobacco were placed, on their
coming back to Chattanooga, after their unsuccessful attempt'
to go forward.
The river rose gradually until the evening of the 7th (Thursday), at which time it reached the high water mark of 1847.
That night it rose an average of four inches an hour from 7
P.M. to 61 A.M. of the 8th of March, and it continued to rise
until about 2 P.M. of Sunday, the 10th of March. On Friday, at 1 P.M., the engines standing on the tracks were submerged so that their lower fire-boxes were covered. On
Saturday, at 8 P.m., the engines and cars were submerged
ten feet or more, and the freight in question was thus dar-

aged. .ad it gone off on the evening of the 5th it would not have
been damaged. A freight train did leave Chattanooga going
towards Memphis on that evening, but it carried freight of
the Nashville and Chattanooga road only, and none for the
road of the defendant. Four or five days elapsed from the
time when the water began to come up into the town, before
it was so high as to submerge the cars and injure the freight.
No one expected the water would rise as it did, because it
rose full fifteen feet higher than had ever before been known.
The rise was at first gradual, and from the direction of
Lookout Mountain, by backing; but afterwards it came suddenly from the direction~of the Western and Atlantic road,
opposite to its former direction, and then rose very rapidly.
Although on the 6th the river was getting out of its banks,
there was no apprehension,, up to the night of the 7th, that
the water would submerge the town. During the night of
,the 7th merchants removed their gobds, and one Phillips,
who that night removed his to the second story of a building
standing on ground no higher than the depot, saved them.
'The water rose into his building on the morning of the 8th.

The people finally fled to the hills, and there was a universal destruction of property as well of individuals as of railroadspassing
through the city. The waters indeed were so high and the
flood finally so unexpected that the mayor broke open railroad cars and' took provisions which were in process of
transportation, to feed the famishing population. The cars

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.
Statement of the case.

in which the tobacco was were standing on the highest
grounld in the region of the station.

There were roads in

other directions, beside the road over which the rock had
fitllcn, physically traversable by the cars which had the tobacco; but there were difficulties of various kinds in going
on then, which the agents considered amounted to a bar to
trying to use them.
On this case the defendant, having by a first and second
request, asked the court to instruct the jury that there was
no obligatory contract even if the jury believed the couversations deposed to by Price, asked further instructions.
"Third. That if the jury shall believe that the train was
stopped on the morning of the 6th by the falling of rock on the
track and the washing away of a bridge, and was obliged to
puv back to Chattanooga in order to send force and implements
to put the road in repair, then such delay was inevitable, and
would not subject the road for any consequential damages, the
immediate cause of the damage being the flood.
"Fourth. That when the damage is shown to have resulted
from an immediate act of God, such as a sudden and extraordinary flood, the carrier would be exempt from liability, unless
the plaintiff shall prove that the defendant was guilty of some
negligence in not providing for the safety of the goods. That
he could do, so must be proven by the plaintiff, or must appear
in the facts of the case.
"Fifth. If the freight train carrying the tobacco left Chattanooga on the morning of the 6th of March, 1867, on its proper
time under the contract, and was prevented from going forward
by obstructions on the track or the washing away of a bridge,
caused by an extraordinary fall of rain and freshet, and was detained at Chattanooga by these obstructions, or either of them,
until the tobacco was injured by the subsequent freshet, which
could not be avoided, then the delay at Chattanooga would not
be negligence, and the defendant would not be liable for the
injury caused by such subsequent freshet, if such freshet was such
as is described in the former request for instructions as an act of
God, provide d the defendant used all proper diligence to rescue
the property from injury at Chattanooga, or provided the freshet
was so sudden and overwhelming as to prevent rescuing-it."

180

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

But the court refused to give any of these instructions,
and gave the jury, among others, the following ones:
"2d. If you shall be satisfied from the proof that the tobacco
was injured while the cars upon which it was being shipped
were standing at the depot in Chattanooga by a freshet which
submerged the cars containing the tobacco, and that no human
care, skill, and prudence could have avoided the injury, then
such injury would be occasioned by the 'act of God,' and the
defendant would not be liable. But, if you believe that the cars
containing the tobacco were brought within the influence of the
freshet by the act of the defendant, or its agents, and that if the
defendant or agents had not so acted the tobacco would not
have been damaged, then the injury would not be occasioned by
the ' act of God,' and the defendant would be liable for the
damage sustained."3d. If you shall believe that the tobacco was received at
Chattanooga by the defendant on the evening of the 5th of
March, 1867, and that the agent of the defendant having the
charge of the freights at, and superintending their shipment
from, that point to Memphis, made a contract with Price, the
agent of the plaintiff, by which the tobacco was to be sent forward for Memphis on the same evening, and that the agent of
the defendant did not comply with the said contract or engagemient so made with the agent of the plaintiff, but held the tobacco
over until the next morning's train, and, as a consequence of
such delay, the tobacco was injured by a freshet in the rivers
and creeks contiguous to Chattanooga, and which freshet would
not otherwise than by said delay have caused the said injury,
then the defendant can claim no exemption from its liability as
carriers on account of any injury or damage occasioned by the
said freshet, and you will find a verdict in favor of the plaintiff.
"4th. If you shall believe that the tobacco in controversy was
not sent forward from Chattanooga, en route for Memphis, until
the morning of the 6th of March (and this in the absence of any
such contract as stated in the preceding instruction), and that
the train upon which said tobacco was being transported was
delayed and hindered in its progress by an obstruction upon the
track of the road some two and a half or three miles from Chattanooga, which obstruction was occasioned 4,y a slide or tumbling of a rock from the mountain side along which the track

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

Statement of the case.
of the road is located, and in consequence of said obstruction
the said train returned to the depot at Chattanooga, when, by
a diligent effort on the part of the defendant's agents the obstruction might have been removed and the train gone through to
some other point on the road where no injury would have
resulted; arid if you believe that while the train was so at the
depot at Chattanooga the tobacco aforesaid was damaged as
alleged, then the returning of the train to Chattanooga was the
immediate cause of the injury, and not the freshet; and the
injury would not be caused by ' the act of God,' man's agency
having intervened, and the defendant would not be relieved
from liability, and the plaintiff will be entitled to a verdict in
his favor.
"5th. That the loss or damage to the goods in question, if
produced by a rise, or freshet, in the river or creeks in the
vicinity of the depot where the train was standing, such rise,
or freshet, to constitute it 'the act of God,' in a legal sense,
must have been so sudden, immediate, and unforeseen as to
leave the carrier no sufficient time or means of escape from
its consequences. But if it be not shown by the evidence that
such was the fIct, then it was the duty of the defendant or
its agents to save the property of the plaintiff from the impending (langer, if it were possible to do so, by extraordinary exertion. If the damage could have been prevented by any means
within the power of the defendant or its agents, and such means
were not resorted to, then the liability of the defendant would
not be relieved, and the jury must find for the plaintiff."
The trial and verdict, which went for the plaintiff, was
had March 26th, 1868. On the 15th of April following a
motion was made by the defendant for a new trial, and overruled. The record went ol, under date of the 18th of April,
1868, to say, after giving the title of the case, that,
On this day came the defendant by attorney and tendered its
bill of exceptions herein, and asked that the same might be
signed and sealed by the court and made part of the record in
this cauge, which was accordingly done.
The, " b ill of exceptionsfiled April 18, 1868," then followed.
It commenced, after the title of the case, by baying that, "on

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the carrier.

the trial of this cause, the following proceedings were had."
Then came the testirnony introduced, the prayer of the
plaintiff in error for five distinct instructions, the refusal
of the court to grant them, and -the instructions which the
court did give (all as already mentioned), and the statement that the defendant excepted to th6 action of the court
in refusing the instructions aforesaid, and also in giving the
charge aforesaid, and also in overruling his motion for a new
trial.
The exceptions to the charge of the judge at the trial, and
to his refusal to charge as requested by defendant below, presented the only grounds on which error was alleged.
Mr. P. Phillips,for the plaintiff in error:
Although the case shows, from the published schedule
and the oral proof, that it is impossible that any such conversation as Price states took place between himself and the
agent could have occurred, we admit its truth for the purpose of the argument.
But this admitted, there is nothing in the evidence to
authorize the court to submit to the jury the finding of
a contract to forward this freight on the night of the 5th.
There was no new conside-ration. But a consideration is of
the essence of every contract;.of every obligatory promise;
and so indispensable is it, that it must be always shown,
and cannot be presumed.* The loose language of Story, J.,
in his book on Bailments, as to what constitutes consideration, has no foundation in the common law.t
Whether the agent made the promise or not, the duty of
the company was to forward the freight thus received, using
due diligence for this purpose, and it had no higher one in
consequence of the promise. There was no new agreement
at Chattanooga for freigti, or for any other purpose. The
freight had been arranged at Salisbury, and was to be colHughes v. Hughes, Admr. 7, Term 350.
t See American Jurist, vol. xvi, p. 254; American note (tit. Unpaid
Agents) to Coggs v. Bernard, 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 419, 6th American
edition.

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

183

Argument for the carrier.

lected at Memphis, the terminus. The promise was a vol
unteer statement merely, nudum paetum.
But admit that there was a contract to forward on the
evening of the 5th, the damage occasioned by the flood on
the 6th cannot be referred to a violation of that contract.
This is the view taken by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in Morrison v. Davis,* and by the Sfpreme Court of

Massachusetts, in Denny v. New York Central Railroad Company, cases analogols, both, to ours.t
All the instructions asked for by the defendant ought
therefore to have been given. Though the proximate cause
may be occasioned by inevitable accident; the carrier is
still bound to care and diligence. Yet no'greater foresight
of extraordinary perils is expected of him than of other
men, and no greater penalty visited for its failure. When
he discovers himself in peril, the law requires of him ordinary care, skill, and foresight. This is defined to be the
common prudence which men of business and heads of
families usually exhibit in matters that are interesting to
them. As difficulties increase in danger, great care then
becomes the ordinary care of a prudent man. If one uses
the precautions which a reahonable man would use under
the circumstances, he isnot responsible for omitting other
precautions which are conceivable, even though if he had
used them the injury would certainly have been avoided.

Now as to the question of proof of negligence. The rule is
admitted to be that the burden of proof is on the carrier to
show that the loss was occasioned by a cause for which he
is not responsible. When, however, the evidence brings the'
loss within the excepted danger, the onusprobandiis changed.
It is then upon the plaintiff to show that the danger might
have been avoided by the exercise of reasonable skill and
attention of the carrier.1
The case shows that due diligence and care were used to
avoid the threatened danger.
20 Pennsylvania State, 171.
Clark et al. v. Barnwell, 12 Howard, 280.

t 13 Gray, 487.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. RiEEvES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the owner of the goods.

Messrs. Albert Pike and . W. Johnson, contra:
1. It does not appear that any exceptions were taken or
points reserved during the trial. The bill of exceptions sets
out five instructions to the jury, asked by the defendant below, and refused by the court, covering some pages. These
the court refused, and gave a charge in regard to the law in
general as to the responsibilities of common carriers, and as
to the case in hand upon the facts proven.
The bill of exceptions was taken three days after the
motion for a new ti'ial was overruled, and twenty-three
days after the trial concluded. !Now, does the word "excepted" necessarily show that the exception was taken during the trial? It is not said that the company excepted at
the time; and the court cannot presume that it did, in the
absence of any statement, even the most vague, to that
effect. On the contrary, as the statement is that the defendant also excepted to the overruling of his motion for a new
trial, without saying that this was at a different time, the
court must hold that there was no exception at all taken
until that motion was overruled.
Now a bill of exceptions must be upon points expressly
reserved and excepted to at the trial, otherwise they are
waived, as a bill of exceptions originally was, if not presented at the trial. That was the rule under the statute of
Westminster. If the exception was not stated in writing,
and tendered at the trial, it was considered as waived, and
the party could not resort to it after a verdict against him.
Wright v. Sharp,* is conclusive on that point. Holt, C. J.,
said there:
"If this practice should prevail, the judge would be in a
strange condition; h fbrgets the exception,and refuses to sign
the bill, so an action must be brought; you should have insisted
on your exception at the trial; you waive it if you aquiesce, and
shall not resort back to your exception after a verdict against
you. . . . The substance must be reduced to writing while the thing is
transacting,because it is to become a record."
* 1 Salkeld, 288.

Dec, 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

REEVES.

185

Argument for the owner of the goods.

Little profit accrues to the law by the abandonment of its
old principles. It is not safe to trust the memory of a judge
engaged in trying a multitude of cases, even for a week, in
regard to the evidence given or refused, or to the hnguage
he may have used in directing the'jury. We submit, therefore, that there is no bill of exceptions here, on which the
court can act; and that the judgment below must necessarily
be affirmed.
If the court should think that the single word "excepted"
has virtue enough to authorize it to conclude that the record
shows affirmatively that the exceptions were taken on the
trial, then we object that the exceptions are such as the rules
of the law, and its own rules, will not permit the court to consider. They are sweeping and indiscriminate, being to the
refusal to give long instructions, and to the giving of'pages
of legal principles and propositions in their stead. It surely
will be at some time understood that this court will not look
into a case which thus brings up a mass of instructions
given and refused, and in which,the party has put his finger
on no particular errors. It is directly contrary to rule No.
4; and it is equally contrary to the law, and to the practice
of all appellate courts of respectability. The rule will cease
to be disregarded when it is rigidly enforced. To dispense
with it, or overlook disobedience of it, on account of particular circumstances, makes. it mere brutumfutmen.
There is no doubt that some portions, at least, of the
charge and directions of the judge below, in this case, were
correct in point of law. If he stated one correct proposition, the exception to his charge falls.*
2. Of the contract made at Chattanooga, and the law as to
common. carriers,as set Jorth 'in the instructions given.
The court instructed the jury that if the agent having
charge of freights and their transshipment did make such a
contract, it bound the company. 'This was right.

The tes

timony shows that the conipany sent only one freight train
each day, and that in the morning; but it could certainly
Rogers v.The Marshal, 1 Wallace, 645; Harvey v. Tyler, 2 Id. 828.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

[
[Sup
nCt.

Argument for the owner of the goods.

send a car in the evening, with the freight train of the Nashville and Chattanooga road, if it chose to pay for the service;
and if its agent contracted with a party owning freigtht to do
so, the conipany would be responsible for all damage caused
by the delay.
So the instructions as to the liability of the company as a
common carrier. No matter what degree of prudence may
be exercised by the carrier and his servants; although the
delusion by which it is baffled, or the force by which it is
overcome is inevitable, yet if it be the result of human
means, the carrier is responsible.* In Campbell v. Morse,t
one Deft's wagon, in which he was carrying for hire, stuck
fast in fording a creek, and the water, rising suddenly, damaged the goods; but he was held responsible. So in Bason
v. Charleston & Columbia $teamboat Company,t where a steamboat grounded from reflux of tide, and in consequence fell
over, and the bilge-water, rising into the cabin, produced injury to the goods.
Denny v. New York Central Bailroad Company, eted on the
other side, is not against these cases, because the court there
held that when the damages by flood occurred, the defendants no longer held the goods as common carriers.
In fact, the moment a faulty negligence begins, the carrier becomes an insurer against the consequences therefrom,.
both ordinary and extraordinary ยง If he improperly detains
goods, and they are injured by a sudden and extraordinary
rise of water, the detention being negligence, he is responsible. To relieve him there must be an entire exclusion of
human agency from the cause of the injury or loss.II In
.Read v. Spaulding, cited below, the goods were injured by a
flood, being delayed at a point in transilu.
* McArthur 'v.Sears, 21 Wendell, 196; Sherman v. Wells, 28 Barbour,
403 ; Ferguson v. Brent, 12 Maryland, 9.
t 1 Ilarper's Constitutional, 468.
: Id. 262.
Davis v. Garrett, 6 Bingham, 716; Bell v. Reed, 4 Binney, 127 ;.I:art
v. Allen, 2 Watts, 114; Williams v. Grant, 1 Connecticut, 492; Crosby v.
Fitch, 12 ld. 410.
i Michaels v. Central Railroad Company, 30 New York, 670; Read v.
Spaulding, 80 Id. 680; Merritt v. Earle, 29 Id. 115.

Dec 1869.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. REEVES.

Reply for the carriers.

The fact, which in this case, with the windows of heaven
opened, and the torrents descending day after day, ought to
have been anticipated by the agents of the company, that
the flood was coming, should have increased and stimulated
their vigilance and caution, and if by any known means they
could have prevented the dimage, they should have done
so.-* What if the floods never did, within their memory or their
records, rise so high? These calamities, like great fires in
cities, are encyclical.' They come at long intervals only; often
very lofig intervals. But come at some time they surely
will, and on such a premonition as was had here, the company should not have stood "stupidly gazing" at the menacing clouds till they burst and deluged the land. They
should have moved the cars off at once to the farthest and
highest spot possible, and if one route was blocked they
should have gone, in another.
When the negligence of the carrier exposes him to what
he might otherwise have escaped, he is responsible for losses
thus occurring through the combined agency of his own
negligence and of inevitable accident. If his own neglect
is the proximate cause of the peril being incurred, he is responsible. If he could have removed the property injured,
beyond the reach of flood or fire, and so have escaped from
that cause of loss, but did not do so, then, although the flood
or fire was the act of God, yet the injury or loss was really
caused by his negligence,,and the accident was not inevitable.
The fact that the carrier has done what is usual, is not sufficient to exempt him from a charge of negligence. He must
show that he has done what was necessary to be done under
all the circumstances. If he could have prevented the accident by the exercise of due diligence and care, and did not,
he is liable.t
Mr. Phillips in reply: No doubt the bill of exceptions is
open to animadVersion, as not in good technical form. But
it is certain that the exception to the action of the judge was
f

Gordon v. Buchanan, 5 Yerger, 82.
Wing v. New York & Erie Railroad Cumpany, 1 Hilton, 235.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

a "proceeding," and a very important one, and the opening
of the bill declares that all the "following proceedings" were
bad " on the trial of the cause."
It is again said, that the exceptions are too general, and
that they should have been specifically made to the several
charges. It is to be observed that the charges were asked
in the first place by the defendant. These were rejected,
and the defendant excepted. Then the court gave several
charges, Jll involving the single question of negligence. The
substance of these was a denial of the doctrine asserted in
the prayers of the defendant, and to these instructions the
defendant also excepted.
It is evident that the charges given are in direct
response
to the charges asked and refused, and no revision is now
asked which involves a question that was not distinctly presented to the court below.
The court will not allow the right of review to be defeated because of any mere informality or irregularity in the
mode in which the exceptions had been presented.*
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
A preliminary point is raised by the defendant in error
that the exception was not taken at the trial, but was taken
afterwards on the overruling of a motion for a new trial.
It seems probable that the formal bill of exceptions was
not signed or settled until after the motion was overruled,
but it is a common practice, convenient in dispatch of business, to permit the party to claim and note an exception
when the occasion arises, but defer reducing it to a formal
instrument until the trial is over. We think the language
of the bill implies that this was done in the present case, and
that it is a reasonable inference from the language used at
the beginning and end of this bill, that the exceptions were
taken during the trial, as the rulings excepted to were made.
Comment is also made, that the exception does not point
out to which instruction it is taken, nor to any special part
N*Simpson & Co. v. Dall, 3 Wallace, 460.

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

189

Opinion of the court.

of the charge which was given. But the instructions prayed
by defendant were not offered as a whole, but each one for
itself, and the action of the court in refusing them, to which
exception is taken, may be fairly held to mean each of
them.
As to the charge given by the court, the language of the
exception is more general than we could-desire, And if
the errors of this charge were less apparent, or if there was
any reason to suppose they were inadvertent, and might
have been corrected if specified by counsel at the time, we
would have some difficulty in holding the exception to it
sufficient. But the whole charge proceeds upon a theory of
the law of common carriers, as it regards the effect of loss
from the act of God, on the contract, so different from our
views of the law on that subject, that it needs no special
effort to draw attention to it, and it is so clearly and frankly
stated as to have made it the turning-point of the case.
We are of opinion, then, that *both the refusal to charge
as requested and the charge actually given are properly before us for examination. As regards the first, we will only
notice one of the rejected instructions, the fourth. It was
prayed in these words:
"When the damage is shown to have resulted from the immediate act of God, such as a sudden and extraordinary flood, the
carrier would be exempt from liability, unless the plaintiff
shall prove that the defendant was guilty of some negligence in
not providing for the safety of the goods. That he could do so
must be proven by the plaintiff, or must appear in the facts of
the case."

It is hard to see how the soundness of this proposition can
be made clearer than by 4ts bare statement. A common
carrier assumes all risks except those caused by thie act of
God and the public enemy. One of the instances always
mentioned by the elementary writers of loss by the act of
God is the case of loss by flood and storm. Now, when it is
shown that the damage resulted from this cause immediately,
he is excused.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. IREEVES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

What is to make him liable after this? No question of
his negligence arises unless it is made by the other party.
It is, not -necessary for him to prove that the cause was such
as releases him, and then to prove affirmatively that be
did not contribute to it. If, after be has excused himself
by showinug the presence of the overpowering cause, it is
charged that his negligence contributed to the loss, the proof
of this must come from those who assert or rely on it.
The testimony in the case,. wholly uncontradicted, shows
one of the most sudden, violent, and extraordinary floods
ever known in that part of the country. The tobacco was
being transported from Salisbury, North Carolina, to Memphis, on a contract through and by several railroad companies, of which defendant was one. At Chattanooga it was
received by defendant, and fifteen miles out the train was
arrested, blocked by a land slide and broken bridges, and
returned to Chattanooga, when the water came over the
track into the car and injured the tobacco.
The second instruction given by the court says that if,
while the cars were so standing at Chattanooga, they were
submerged by a freshet which no human care, skill, and
prudence could have avoided, then the defendant would not
be liable; but if the cars were brought within the influence
of the freshet by the act of defendant, and if the defendant
or his agent had not so acted the loss would not have occurred, then it was not the act of God, and defendant would
be liable. The fifth instruction given also tells the jury that
if the damage cotild have been prevented by any means
within the power of the defendant or his agents, and such
means were not resorted to, then the jury must find for
plaintiff
In contrast with the stringent ruling here stated, and as
expressive of our view of the law on this point, we cite two
decisions by courts of the first respectability in this country.
I In Morrison v. Davis &' Co.,* goods being transported on a
canal were injured by the wrecking of the boat, caused by
20 Pennsylvania State, 171.

Dec. 1869.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. REEVES.

191

Opinion of the court.

an extraordinary flood. It was shown that a lame horse
used by defendants delayed the boat, which would otherwise
have passed the place where the accident occurred in time
to avoid the injury. The court held that the proximate
cause of the disaster was the flood, and the delay caused by
the lame horse the remote cause, and that the maxim, causa
proxima, non remora spectatur, applied as well to contracts
of common carriers as to others. The court further held,
that when carriers discover themselves in peril by inevitable
accident, the law requires of them ordinary care, skill, and
foresight, which it defines to be the common prudence which
men of business and heads of families usually exhibit in
matters that are interesting to them.

-In Denny v. New York Central Railroad Co.,* the defendants were guilty of a negligent delay of six days in transporting wool from Suspension Bridge to Albany, and while
in their depot at 'the latter place a few days after, it was submerged by a sudden and violent flood in the Hudson River.
The court says that the flood was the proximate cause of
the injury, and the delay in transportation the remote one;
that the doctrine we have just stated governs the liabilities
of common carriers as it does other occupations and pursuits, and it cites with approval the case of Morrison v.

.Davis& Co.
Of the soundness of this principle we are entirely convinced, and it is at variance with the general groundwork
ofthe court's charge in this case.
As the case must go back for a new trial, there is another
error which we must notice, as it might otherwise be r6peated. It is the third instruction given by the court, to
the effect that if defendant had contracted'to start with the
tobacco the evening before, and the jury believe if he had
done so the train would have escaped injury, then the defendant was liable. Even if there had been such a contract,
the failure to comply would have been only the remote
cause of the loss.
* 18 Gray, 481.

THE LULU.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

But all the testimony that was given is in the record, and
we see nothing from which the jury could have infertied any
such contract, or which tends to establish it, and for that
reason no such instruction should have been given.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

THE LULU.
.The Grapeshot(9 Wallace, 129) affirmed on the second point adjudged therein
(pp. 133-141); and the doctrine again declared, that in the case of a lien
asserted against a vessel supplied or repaired in a foreign port, necessity for credit must be presumed where it appears that the repairs and
supplies for which a lien is set up were ordered by the master, and that
they were necessary for -the ship when lying in port, or to.fit her for
an intended voyage, unless it is shown that the master had funds, or
that the owners had sufficient credit, and that the repairer, furnisher,
or lender knew those facts, or one of them, or that such facts and circumstances were 'known to them as were sufficient to put them on
inquiry, and to show that if they had used due. diligence they would
have ascertaitied that the master was not authorized to obtain any such
relief on the credit of the vessel.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.
This was a suit in admiralty to enforce a lien claimed
upon the steamer Lulu for repairs made upon her at the request of the master. It *as consolidated with other suits,
all brought by material men for supplies or repairs to the
.vessel to the extent of $8796.21.
The steam vessel was owned in New York, which was
her home port, but employed in the trade between Baltimore, in Maryland, and Charleston, in South Carolina.
When the libel was filed she had been plying in the- trade
about eleven months, that is to say, from April, 1866, to
March, 1867. The repairs and supplies for which satisfaction was sought were furnished in Baltimore during and
.after July, 1866, but chiefly in I ovember and afterwards, at

