4104

DUCAT V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the caser

DUCAT v. CHICAGO.
The case of Paul v. Virginia (8 Wallace, 168) affirmed and applied to a
case where the State by certain statutes authorized the State officers to
grant to foreign insurance companies, upon complying with certain
terms, a license to transact the business of insurance within the State,
and then' by other statutes incorporating cities, made it obligatory on
such foreign companies transacting business within those cities to pay
them apro rata on all their premiums, and declaring it unlawful in the
companies otherwise to do business in them, authorized those cities to
sue and recover it from the companies for the city's use.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Illinois; the
case being thus:
Statutes passed by the legislature of Illinois in 1853 and
1857, "to regulate the agencies of insurance companies not
incorporated by the State of Illinois," required the agents
of all such insurance companies, desirous to transact business in the State, to take out a license from the auditor of
the State; and, before obtaining it, to furnish him with a
statement, under the oath of the president or secretary of
the company, showing its name and locality, the amount of
its capital stock, the portion paid in, the assets of the company, and to furnish also a written instrument, under the
company's seal, authorizing the agents to accept service of
ERROR

process, and agreeing that service on them shall be valid.

Upon all this being done, and $5 paid for filing and examining the statement, and. $1 for the certificate, a license authorizing the agent applying for it "to transact the business
of insurance in this State," is then allowed to be granted
from year to year.
By another act, passed a few years later (1863), incorporating the city of Chicago, the legislature of the State enacted that all foreign insurance companies engaged in effecting insurances in that city should pay to the city treasurer
the sum of $2 upon the $100, and at that rate upon the
amount of all premipms which shall have been received;
designating the time and mode of payment. The law, also,

Dec. 1870.]

.DUCAT V.CHICAGO.
Argument for the corporations.

in case of default of payment, provided that it should be
unlawful for the company to, transact any business of insurance in the city until the payment was made, and that the
rates might be recovered of the company, or of its agent,
in the name and for the use of the city.
With these laws in force, one Ducat, residing in the city
of Chicago, and the agent there of several insurance companies chartered in the State of New York, took out licenses
in 1865, authorizing him'to carry on the business of insurance as agent of said companies. He paid the State for his
license, but refused to pay anything to the city of Chicago,
on the ground chiefly that corporations were citizens within
the meaning of that clause of the Constitution which declared that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States,
and the city thereupon brought this suit to recover the rates
which he thus refused to pay.
The court below decided in favor of the city, and Ducat
brought the case here chiefly for the purpose of having the
point above raised decided, the parties and counsel to the
present case not knowing of the then pendency of the case
of Paul v. Virginia,* in which it was soon afterwards decided
that corporations were not "citizens" within the above
quoted clause of the Constitution, and decided also that each
State may prescribe the terms on which corporations created
in other States may be allowed to carry on their corporate
business, especially when it is that of insurance, within that
State.
Mr. S. W. Fuller,for the plaintiff in error:
Paul v. Virginia decides the main point which we brought
this case here to raise. But the facts of our case may perhaps take it out of the scope and effect of the decision in
that.
This license here granted by the State is, in form and
substance, a license to foreign insurance companies to trans* 8 Wallace, 168.

DUCAT V. CHICAGO.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the corporations.

act their business in the State of Illinois, as domestic companies may do. The disclosures and statements made to the
auditor, the stipulations as to service of process, and the fee
paid that officer for each license, must be regarded as a good
consideration paid by the companies for such permission.
By taking out the licenses issued by the auditor the com-

panies become, as it were, naturalized, and legally domiciled
in the State. No doubt the State might, under Paul v. Virginia, have excluded them altogether; but having enacted
general laws permitting, if not inviting, them to come there
and to do business under them, the privilege thus granted
ought not to be diminished or impaired by unequal and discriminating taxes, levied by the cities in which the agencies
are established; taxes not levied on domestic companies.
The sections of the city charter which provide for the
collection of this tax are a part qf the revenue system of the
city, and the tax cannot be regarded as the price paidfor the
privilege of coming into the State and doing business, because the auditor issued the license under the general law,
and, pursuant to that license, the companies commenced.
business in Chicago, and received the premiums, two per
cent. of which are now demanded by the city of Chicago.
This is a tax levied upon property; a tax, too, of a most
oppressive character; for a tax on gross receipts is a tax
upon that in which the company may not have any interest
after paying the losses sustained upon the risks for which
the premiums were paid, for there may be nothing left to it
after paying those losses.
It is true that the amount of its tax or its fairness does
not affect the question of the power to levy- it; but, if it is
not a license fee, then it is a tax levied according to an arbitrary rule, and its unjust and unequal character is a proper
subject of consideration in passing upon thee validity of the
law imposing it.
Paul v. Virginia. hardly concludes this case. There Paul
refused to comply with all-the terms required by the law of
Virginia of foreign insu'rance companies, upon establishing
agencies for the transaction of insurance business in that

Dec. 1870.]

DUCAT V. CHICAGO.
Argument for the city.

State, and therefore did notthave a license for carrying on
the business. For this violation of the law he was prosecuted by the State to recover the penalty imposed upon persons guilty of its violation; and this court decided that the
law was valid, and that he was liable to the penalty; but
it did not decide, that if he had obtained the license, the
property of the companies represented by him could be
taxed by the State of Virginia, at a greater rate than the
like property of the citizens of that State, merely because
it belonged to foreign insurance companies. That question
was not presented by the facts of the case.
A license to foreign companies is required on grounds of
public policy, to protect the community against loss from
irresponsible insurance companies, and a license has here
been had. We have now a tax in addition levied upon
the company's property; an unequal, and as we maintain,
an invalid tax.

Mr. M. F. Tuley, city counsel, contra:
This court decided, in Paul v. Virginia, not only that corporations are not "citizens" in the sense set up, but decided
also that " corporations created in one State had not even
an absolute right of recognition in other States, but depend
for that and for the enforcement of their contracts upon the
assent of those States, which may be given accordingly on
Counsel
such terms as they-the other States -please."
"by
taking
that
proposition.
by
the
avoid
this
to
endeavor
become,
out licenses issued by the auditor, the companies
as it were, naturalized and legally domiciled in the State."
In other words, that the company becomes a quasi citizen.
But the Constitution does not recognize quasi citizens, or
their rights.
The State, through its legislature, prescribed the terms
upon which the State will give recognition to-foreign corporations; upon which it will permit them to do businesain the
State, and upon which it will recognize their special privileges, and enforce contracts made by them. These terms
are, -that they shall file the sworn statement, and obtain the

DUCAT V. CHIC Go.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the city.

certificate (or license) from the auditor of the State, in accordance with the acts of 1855 and 1857, and that they shall
also render to the city-if they transact business in it-the
account required of them, and pay $2 upon the $100 of their
gross receipts to the city treasurer, as provided in the act
of 1863.
If these corporations are merely creations of the local law
which created them; if they are not citizens; if they have
no "privileges or immunities" which other States are bound
to recognize; and if the other States may prohibit them
doing business-their very existence-within the limits of
such other States respectively (all of which has been decided
in Paul v. Virginia), then it follows that the State of Illinois
has the right to provide, as in the acts of 1855, 1857, and
1863, that any foreign corporation, as a condition to its
doing business in the city of Chicago, shall not only take
out a State license, but shall also pay a pro rata of their premiums received from business transacted in the city to the
city treasurer.
Counsel argue, that having received the certificate (or
license) from the auditor, the foreign corporation thereby
acquires the right to transact its business anywhere in tho
State, on an equality with local or domestic colporations.
The proposition assumes, that the only terms exacted of the
foreign companies are the filing of the statement with the
auditor, and the obtaining the certificate or license from
him. But this is a false assumption. If the acts of 1855,
1857, and the act of 1863 are not inconsistent, and -can all
stand together, then there is a very important limitation or
condition which the counsel has omitted; which is, that if
the foreign company desires to do business in the citY of Chicago, it must, in addition to filing the statement with the
auditor, and obtaining the license from him, pay to the city
treasurer $2 on every $100 of its gross receipts, and render
its account to the city controller, as required by the act of
1863. The terms which the State has pleased to ,prescribe
are, compliance with gll three of the acts of 1855, 1857, and
(the city charter) 1868.

Dec. 1870,1

DUCAT V._ CHICmAGO.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivred the opinion of the court.
This case was pe~nding here when that of Paul v. Virginia
wag argued and decided; the decision in which, as is adnuitted by the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error, has
already disposed of all the principal questions involved.
Paul, the agent of the insurance companieg in that case,
refused to comply with some of the conditions annexed by
the law of Virginia to the granting of the license, on the
ground: 1, that the corporations he represented were entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens of the
several States, and that the law irmposing discriminating con-

ditions against foreign corporations was void as repugnant
to this clause of the Constitution; and 2, that it was void
as against the commercial power. Both these grounds of
defence were overruled for the reasons assigned in the opinion of the court, which need not be rcpeated, and the agent
held liable to the penalty imposed for a violation of the act.
The principle of that case must govern the one before us.
The only differencebetween the statute of Virginia and that
of Illinois is, that the latter is more onerous to the cornpanies than the fbrmer. The difference is in degree, not in
principle.
The power of the State to discriminate between her own
domestic corporations and those of other States, desirous of
transacting business within her jurisdiction, is clearly established in the case we have referred to, as it also had been in
the previous case of Augusta v. Earle.* As to the nature or
degree of discrimination, it belongs to the State to determ e, subject only to such limitations on her aovereignty as
may be found in the fundamental law of the Union. We
find no such limitations in this case.
JUDGMENT

* 18 Peters, 519.

AFFIRMED.

