BRAUN V. SAUERWEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Suggestion is also made that the lien was waived by the commencement of an action fbr the advances in the State court, but
the record shows that the action is still pending, and it is wellsettled law that the pendency of such an action is no bar to a
suit in a Federal court.*
Had the judgment been rendered it might be different, but it
is clear that the rule "transit in rem judicatam" cannot apply
during the pendency of the action.t
All sums collected in that proceeding have been duly credited
in this case, and it is fully proved that the whole amount included in the decree of the District Court was proper'ly cognizable in the admiralty.
Decree of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree
•AFFIRMING THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

BRAUN V. SAUERWEIN.
1, Although the running of a statute of limitations to the right of suing may
be suspended by causes not mentioned in the statute itself, as, for example, by the fact that the plaintiff, without default of his own, has been
disabled by a superior power from the capacity to sue; still, when by
the removal of the disabling power the right reverts, the question in a
ow
ease where the statute is afterwards set up to bar a suit, will be, "H
the
operation
?"
And
long did the suspension which it caused continue
of the statute will not be prevented for a longer time than that during
which the suspension was an enforced one.
Ex. gr. Where an act of Congress, which took effect August 1st, 1866, enacted that no suit to recover a tax once paid should be maintained,
until appeal had been duly made to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, and his decision had, unless such suit was brought within six
months from the time of such decision, &c.
teld-in a case where suit was brought February 18th, 1868, to recover a
tax that had been paid February 2d, 1864, and where appeal to the commissioner had been made August 20th, 1867, and decided by him JanuLoring et al v. Marsh et a]., 2 Clifford, 820; Wadleigh v. Veazie, 3
Sumner, 165; White v. Whitman, 1 Curtiss, 494; Lyman v. Brown, 2 Id.
659; The Paul Boggs, 1 Sprague, 369 ;. The Highlander, 1 Id. 510.
t Murray v. Lovejoy, 2 Clifford, 197; S. C. 3 Wallace, 16.

Dec. 1.869.]

BRAUN

V.

SAUERWEIN.

Statement of the case.
ary l1th, 1868,-that a statute of the State where the suit was brought
which barred such suits, unless brought within three years from the
time when the right of action accrued, operated; the plaintiff's appeal
having been pending only from August 20th, 1867, to January 11th,
1868 (four months and twenty-two days), and the time which he permitted to elapse between August 1st, 1866 (when the act took effect),
and August 20th, 1868 (when.he appealed), having been lost by his own
delay, and not taken from him by any superior power. And it thus
appearing that, deducting the time during which the appeal was pending
(four months and twenty-two days), and during which alone he was
disabled from the four years and sixteen days that elapsed between the
inception of his right to sue and the commencement of his suit, there
remained much more than three years, in which he was.under no legal
disability.
2. This view is not altered by the fact that the replication to the plea setting up the statute of limitations, averred that the appeal was "duly
made, its date not being set forth ; the rejoinder first setting forth the
date of the appeal and of the decision of it.
8. The effect of such a replication (which might have been demurred to),
was only to aver that the statute was suspended for a time; nothing
more being well pleaded by it.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland;
the case being thus:
An act of Congress, passed July 13th, 1866,* and which
by its terms took effect on the 1st of August of that yeal',
enacts:
ERROR

"That no suit shall be maintaifned in any court, for the recovery of any tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally
assessed or collected, until appeal shall have been duly made to the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, according to the provisions
of law in that regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of
the Treasury established in pursuance thereof, and a decision of
said commissioner shall be had thereon, unless such suit shall bo
brought within six months from the time of said decision, or
within six months from the time this act takes effect. Provided,
that if said decision shall be delayed more than six months from
the date of such appeal, then said suit mhay be brought at any
time within twelve months from the date 9 f such appeal."

With this statute in force, Braun on the 18th of February,
1.868, brought suit in one of the State courts of Maryland
*

19, 14 Stat. at Larle, 162.

BRAUN V. SAUERWEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

against Sauerwein,.a collector of internal revenue, to recover
a sum of money alleged to have been illegally exacted by
him, in virtue of his office, from the plaintiff.
The defendant pleaded a statute of limitation of the State
of Maryland, which bars actions of this nature unless brought
within three years from the time when the right of action
accrued. The plaintiff replied, that after the defendant had
received the money for which the suit was brought, the
plaintiff duly appealed from the assessment and collection
thereof made by the defendant, to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the United States, according to the provisions of law aid in conformity to the regulations of the
Secretary of the Treasury; that a decision of his appeal was
day of February, 1868,
not made until on or about the six months from that
within
brought
was
his
suit
and that
did not aver
observed,
be
date. But the replication, it will
when the appeal was taken, nor the day when it was decided. The
case being removed after this into the Circuit Court of the
United States, under certain acts of Congress,* the defendant rejoined, averring that the money alleged to have been
taken, was received on the 2d day of February, 1864, and
not afterwards, and that the appeal of the plaintiff to the
Comrhissioner of Internal Revenue was taken on the 20th
of August, 1867, and not before; and that the decision of
the appeal by the commissioner was made on the 11th of
January, 1868. To this rejoinder the plaintiff then demurred. The court overruled the demurrer, and judgment
went for the defendant.
The case, therefore, as worked out by the pleadings, and
with its facts arranged in order of time, stood thus:
The collector took the money and the cause of action arose,
.ugustl,
The act of Congress took effect,
The appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
was taken,
The commissioner decided the. appeal, ..
The suit was brought,

February 2,1864.
1866.
August 20,1867.
January 11,1868.
February 18,1868.

It thus appeared that more than three years had elapse.d
See. 12 Stat. at Large, -76; 14 Id. 46.

Dec. 1869.]

BRAUN V.

SAUERWEIN.

Argument for the taxpayer.

after the cause of action accrued before the suit was brought,
and more than three years before the appeal was taken to
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue; that the statute began to run on the 2d of February, 1864, and supposing that
nothing intervened to suspend its operation, that the bar
would have been complete on the 2d of February, 1867.
The question was, whether the act of Congress of the
13th of July, 1866, had, under the facts of this case, worked
such a suspension as that the suit, though thus brought four
years and sixteen days after the cause of action accrued,
was still unbarred by the Maryland statute.
The court below, in overruling the demurrer, decided that
it had not; and the correctness of that view was the onjy
important point now here on error.
Messrs. Brent, Crittenden,and Ilughes,for the plaintiff in error:
As we could not sue after the 13th July, 1866 (the date
of the act of Congress), until an appeal taken and a decision
thereon, and as our replication avers that the appeal was duly
made (a matter not denied in the rejoinder), the appeal must
be takcn to have been in time. The rejoinderthen shows a
decision of that appeal on the 11th day of January, 1868,
and this suit being brought on the 19th February, 1868,
some thirty-nine days after the appeal, it results that if we
deduct the whole term between the 13th July, 1866, and
11th January, 1868 (date of the decision), we have only
two years, five months, and twenty days left between the
receipt of the money on the 2d February, 1864, and the
briiging of this suit on the 19th February, 1868. The State
statute of three years could not therefore bar the action.
We make, no point as to whether the suit was properly
transfeired'under any act of Congress, though, possibly, one
might be raised.
Mr. C. 11. Hill, Assistant Atorney- General,.contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is undoubtedly a general principle, that when a statute
of limitation has begun to run, a disability to sue subse-

BRAUN

V.

SAUERWEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

quently intervening does not stop its running, even though
the disability be one of those expressly recognized in the
statute itself. Notwithstanding this, however, the courts in
this country have engrafted upon such statutes at least one
implied exception. Thus, in llcpkins v. Bell,* this court
held that the treaty of peace o 1783, by which the independence of the United States was acknowledged by Great
Britain, prevented the operation of a Virginia statute of limitations upon debts' due to British subjects, and contracted
before the treaty was made. In that case, though the statute
had begun to run before the commencement of the war in
1775, the time during NLich it had thus run was not allowed
to be added to any time subsequent to the treaty. This,
perhaps, is not to be regarded as a clearly jadicial exception,
incorporated into the Virginia statute. It was rested upon
the force of the treaty which declared that creditors on either
side (British or American), should meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery of the full value, in sterling money,
of all bonafide debts theretofore contracted. The treaty, however, was not the act of Virginia, and the suspension of the
statute's operation was by something outside of the statute
itself. But in 1[anger v. Abbottt it was ruled, after grave
consideration, that the time during which the courts of the
recently rebellious States were closed to the citizens of other
States, is, in suits brought by such citizens, to be excluded
from the computation of the time fixed by statutes of
limitation, within which only suits may be brought, and
this, though the statutes contain no such exception. In
other words, it was held that the statutes of limitations of
the insurrectionary States were suspended, while the courts
in those States were closed by the war. Similar decisions
have been made in the State courts. They all rest on the
ground that the creditor has been disabled to sue, by a superior power, without any default of his own, and, therefore, that none of the reasons which induced the enactment
of the statutes apply to his case; that unless the statutes
*

Cranch, 454.

t6

Wallace, 532.

Dec. 1869.]

eBRAUN V.

SAUERWEIN.

Opinion of the court.

cease to run during the continuance of the supervening
disability, he is deprived of a portion of the time within
which the law contemplated he might sue.
It seems, therefore, to be established, that the running
of a statute of limitation may be suspended by causes not
mentioned in the statute itself. Assuming, then, that the
act of Congress did, for a time, stop the running of the
Maryland statute against the plaintiff, the inquiry remains,
how long did the suspension continue? To this there can
be but one answer. Manifestly, only so long as he was prevented from suing by the act of Congress. The acf, speaking from August 1st, 1866, prohibited a suit until he should
appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and until
his appeal should be decided, unless the decision should be
postponed longer than six months, in which case he was at
liberty to sue within a year -from the time when his appeal
was taken. The interval between the appeal and its decision,
then, was the entire period during which he was disabled by
the act. If, in fact, he was disabled a longer time, the prolonged disability was caused by his own neglect to appeal.
The replication to the defendant's pleas fail to state when
the appeal was made. True, the averment is, it was "duly"
made, but that is pleading a conclusion of law rather than a
fact. The tihe when the appeal was taken was material to
show how long the statute of limitation was suspended. The
effect of the replication was only to aver that the statute was
suspended for a time. Nothing more was well pleaded by
it. Instead of meeting it by a demurrer, however, the defendant rejoined, setting forth the date of the appeal, and
the date of its decision, and the plaintiff demurred to the
rejoinder. It is thus admitted that the plaintiff's appeal
was pending only from August 20th, 1867, to January 11th,
1868, four months and twenty-two days. The act of Congress denied to him a right to sue during that period, and
no longer. The time which he permitted to elapse between
August 1st, 1866 (when the act of Congress took effect), and
August 20th, 1868,'when he appealed, was not taken from
him by any controlling power. He lost it by his own delay.

iHORNS3Y V. UNITID STATES.

[Slip. Ct.,

Syllabus.

It would be giving a most unreasonable construction to the
act were we to hold, that by mere]y delaying to appeal, when.
it was all the time in his power, he could have suspended
the running of the statute indefinitely. Deducting, then,
the four months and twenty-two days, during which his appeal was pending, and during whichf he was disabled, from
the four years and sixteen days that elapsed between the
inception of his right to sue and the commencement of his
suit, there remain much more than three years in which he
was under no disability, except such as was imposed by himself. The judgment of the Circuit Court on the demurrer
was, therefore, correct.
It remains only to add that the case was well removed
into' the Circuit Court of the United States.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED WITH

HORNSBY ET AL. V. UNITED

COSTS.

STATES.

1. Grants of the public domain of 'Mexico, made by governors of the, department of California, were of three kinds: 1st, grants by specific
boundaries, where the donee was entitled to the entire tract described;
2d, grants by quantity, as of one or more leagues situated at some designated place, or within a larger tract described by out-boundaries,
where the donee was entitled out of the general tract only to the quantity specified; and 3d, grants of places by name, where the donee was
entitled to the tract named according to the limits, as shown by its
settlement and possession, or other competent evidence.
.2 Grants of the second elass,-those by quantity,-passed from the government to the grantees, upon their execution, the right to the quantity of
land specified therein, to be afterwards laid off by official authority at
the place or within the larger tract designated.
3. Under Mexico the measurement and segregation from the public domain
of the quantity, specified in this class of grants, could only be made by
the officers of the government. 'A measurement by the grantee was
inoperative for any purpose. Although a general possession of the
*

odgson v. Milward,. 3 Grant, 412 and 418; Bigelow v. Forrest, 9

Wallace, 339.

