Dec. 1870.]

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.
Syllabus.

made, an attorney may successfully resist an application of
his client to substitute another in his place, we need not
stop to inquire. In this case one of the States of this Union
is the litigant, and moves to change its attorney for reasons
which are deemed sufficient by its responsible officers. It
is abundantly able, and it must be presumed will be willing,
to compensate the respondent for any loss he may sustain
in not being continued in the management of the cause.
The court cannot hesitate in permitting the State to appear
and conduct its causes by such counsel as it shall choose to
represent it, leaving the respondent to such remedies for the
redress of any injury he may sustain as may be within his
power. Under the decision which we have just made in
relation to the money in his hands, he will be able to retain
that fund and any papers and documents belonging to his
client until his claims shall be adjudicated in such action as
the State may see fit to institute therefor.
An order to discharge the respondent, George W. P'aschal,
as solicitor and counsel for the complainant in the second
case, No. 6, will be GRANTED.
No COSTS will be allowed to either party on these motions.
ORDERS ACCORDINGLY.

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.
1. The owner of land bounded by a navigable river has certain riparian
rights, whether his title extend to the middle of the stream or not.
2. Among these are, free access to the navigable part of the stream, and the
right to make a landing, wharf, or pier for his own use, or for the use
of the public.
3. These rights are valuable, and are property, and can be taken for the
public good only when due compensation is made.
4. They are to be enjoyed subject to such general rules and laws as the legis'lature may prescribe for the protection of the public right in the river
as a navigable stream.
VOL. x.

82

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
5. But a statute of a State which confers on a city, the power to establish
dock and wharf lines, and to restrain encroachments and prevent obstructions to such a stream, does, not authorize it to declare by special
ordinance a private wharf to be an obstruction to navigation and a
nuisance, and to order its removal, when, in point of fact, it was no
obstruction, or hindrance to navigation.
6. The question of nuisance or obstruction must be determined by general
and fixed laws, and it is not to be tolerated that the local municipal
authorities of a city declare any particular business or structure, a
nuisance, in such a summary mode, and enforce its deci'sion at its own
pleasure.

from the Circuit Court, District of Wisconsin.
The case was this:
In the year i856, Shepardson, who was the owner of a lot
in Milwaukee fronting on the Menomonee and Milwaukee
Rivers in the said city, and who had begun to build a wharf
at the junction of those rivers, conveyed the interest that he
had in the wharf and in the front of the lot to the centre of
the Milwaukee River, to one Yates, with tle right a.nd privilege of docking, dredging out, and making a water front
on the Milwaukee River. Between the margin of the water,
which for the purposes of this case may be assumed to be
the eastern boundary of Shepardson's lot, and the navigable
channel of the Milwaukee River, a space intervened which
was covered with water more ar less, but which was of no
use for purposes of navigation. The title of this was supposed by Shepardsou and Yates to be conveyed by the deed
from the former to the latter, and over it Yates buil.t a wharf
of the width of the lot, and extending one hundred and
ninety feet, in order to reach the navigable part of the river.
An act of the Wisconsin legislature, approved March 31st,
1854, had authorized the common council of.Milwaukee,
"by ordinance, to establish dock and wharf lines upon the
banks of the Milwaukee and Menomonee Rivers, restrain
and prevent encroachments upon said rivers and obstrucAPPEAL

tions thereto; . . and also to cause the said Milwaukee

River to be dredged," &c., and in 1864, the city by an ordinance declared this wharf an obstruction to navigation, and
a nuisance, and ordered it to be abated. On the refusal of

Dec. 1870.]

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.
Statement of the case.

Yates to abate it himself, the city entered into a contract
with one Miller, to remove it, and thereupon Yates filed the
bill in the court below against the city and Miller, to restrain
them from- doing so.

/

/u'

There was no evidence to show that the wharf was an
actual obstruction to navigation, or was jt 1 any other sense
a nuisance.
It appeared, however, by the record of the case of Judd

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

v. Yates, in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin,* that some
time before this bill Yates sued one Judd (a stranger to this
suit), alleging that he, Yates, was the owner of the wharf
in question, and that Point Street, which was originally laid
out to the low and unnavigable waters of the river,'had
been filled in, on the north half thereof, adjacent to the
wharf of the plaintiff; that the defendant had wronigfully
entered upon thAat portion of Point Street which had been
filled in and graded, and had excavated the same ;t and that,
in consequence thereof, the wharf of the plaintiff had been
undermined, &e., and he claimed damages for this consequentiail injury.
The answer set up, that the former owners of the premises
had made a plat; that, in subsequent partition suit between
the owners, the court had adopted the plat, and divided the
lots among the owners with reference to the plat; that the
plat represented the preniises as a portion of Milwaukee
River, and that "the
water."

premises became thereby a h~qhway by

The defence was sustained by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, upon the doctrine of dedication; it conceiving that
the premises for the injury to which the plaintiff complained,
were devoted by the original proprietors to the public use
as a highway by water, and consequently that the grading,
filling, and other works of the plaintiff within the line of
such highway, by which it is blocked up and destroyed, were
a public nuisance.
The court, in it, opinion in the case, speaking of the plat,
say :
"Highways by land and highways by river, wherever clearly
delineated and their boundaries fixed, stand on the same footing,
and it is immaterial Whether they are actually passable in the
whole extent or not.
make them so," &e.

If not passable, the public have the right to

In the present suit, the court below, relying perhaps on
* 18 Wisconsin, 118.

t The star on the diagram on p. 499, represents apparently this spot.

Dec. 1870.]

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.
Argument for the wharf-owher.

the decision referred to, dismissed the bill.
ant appealed.

The complain-

Mr. Carpenter,for the appellant:
The law is settled in Wisconsin, by Walker v. Shepardson,*
that the owner of land bordering upon a fresh-water stream,
above the ebb and flow of the tide, owns to the centre of
the stream, subject to the right of the public to use the same
as a highway where it is navigable in fact.
But conceding that -as matter of fact this wharf is an
obstruction of navigation, still this decree should be reversed, and the injunction prayed for by the bill should be
granted. It is now fully established,t that if there be a
nuisance in a public highway, a private individual cannot of
his own authority abate it unless it does him a special injury, and can only interfere with it so far as is necessary to
exercise his right of passing along the highway.
The legislature did not mean to give the city the power
which it attempts to exercise; and if it did mean to do so,
it had no power tq give it. The city may by "ordinance,"
establish dock lines, &c. They may pass an ordinance', with
penalty for disobedience, and if not obeyed they can bring
an action to collect the penalty. The validity of the ordinance can then be tested. But they cannot, by an ordinance,
employ a man to dbmolish a dwelling-house alleged by them
to encroach on the highway. That would not be an ordinance, or law, or rule of action. In other words, they may
pass a law to provide for the punishment of any man who
does obstruct a highway, but they can't pass an ordinance
declaring that A..'s wharf does this; that would be an exercise of judicial power.
Mr. Ryan, contra:
1. The locus in quo is a public highway.
The Milwaukee River is a navigable stream, and as such
4 Wisconsin, 486.
t Bridge v. Railroad, 3 Meeson & Welsby, 244 ; Davies v. Mann, 10 Id.
646; Mayor of Colchester v.'Brooke, 7 Q. B. 339; Dimes v. Petley, 15 .Ad6lphus & Ellis, N. S. 276; Harrower v. Ritson, 37 Barbour, 801.

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the city.

is a "public highway, forever free."*

Many public acts of

the territory and State of Wisconsin, and of the United States
recognize it as a navigable stream. It was meandered as
such by the Federal government. Acts of the State and
Territory authorize bridges over it, and provide for draws
therein for the passage of vessels.
Being a highway, it is such in its whole width, from bank
to bank, although some portions are too shallow for some
uses; just as a street is none the less a highway because it is
not worked and fit for use in its whole width. Riparian
owners hold but to the edge, not ad medium Jitur.t
The premises in question are made a public highway by
water by dedication of the owners of the fee and acceptance
by the public. By the plat made by the proprietors, the
streets, alleys, and rivers, as-designated thereon, were dedicated to the public use. In Yates v. Judd, Yates asserted
the same right, to the same premises, in an action in the
State courts of Wisconsin. The decision of that case establishes the law of Wisconsin on the questions necessarily involved in the present suit. It disposes of all the merits of
the cohiplainant's case; and binds this court under its own
rule of decision to recognize the adjudication of the highest
State courts on matters concerning State laws. Walker v.
Shepardson, relied upon by Mr. Carpenter, must be read by
its light.
2. It is said that the city had no power to remove the obstruction. The city, by its charter, has charge of all the
public highways within its corporate limits, and has a special
duty to keep the river dredged to a sufficient depth. It has
established a wharf and dock line under the authority of the
statute of 1854. Yates's wharf comes beyond it. It is therefore difficult to see the force of the opposing argument.
This point also is settled by Yates v. Judd.
Reply: The decision in Yates v. Judd, is not upon the conOrdinance of 1787; Const., Art. IX, see. 1.
t Keen v. Stetson, 5 Pickering, 494; Stetson v. Faxon, 19 Id. 147; Lansing v. Smith, 4 Wendell, 21; 061mmissioners v. Long, 1 Parsons, 143.

Dec. 1870.1.

YATES V. MILWAU'KEE.
Opinion of the court.

struction of any statute or constitutional provision of the
State, but upon a principle of the common law. Such A
.decision this court is not bound to follow.
Moreover, the decision is not sound in doctrine, and ought
not to be followed. It is erroneous in holding that by the
platting of the land upon the bank of the river, and representing the river as it existed in nature, the proprietors intended to, or in law-did, part with their rights as riparian
owners. No ,authority ig cited, no reason giyen, for this
view; none can be. Tle distinction between land and water
is founded in nature. When a proprietor makes a plat, and
lays out a street on his own land, it is fair to say that he
intended to establish a highway of the precise dimensions
indicated by his plat; for the reason that it was made a
highway only by his act, and that if he had not intended to
make it a -highway to the extent indicated, he would not
have so indicated it. But Milwaukee River does not owe
its existence, capacity, or limits, to any proprietor or plat.
The sensible doctrine is that which everybody knows corresponds with the fact, that in platting land bordering upon
a river the owner intends to mark only the line of separation, as it exists in fact between land and water, without
intending to indicate. where the navigable channel is at
present, or to predict where it will be in the future; and
that, as a riparian proprietor, he intends to retain the right
to reach the navigable channel of the river, wherever it is
or may be, with piers and wharves.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants, in support of their right to remove the
wharf, seem to rely-ist, upon the want of title in the plaintiff to the locus in quo; and 2d, upon the absolute power of
the city of Milwaukee, as the repository of the public authority on the subject of wharves, piers, and other matters affecting the navigation of the river within the city limits, to
determine the character and location of su6h structures.
As to the first of these propositions, it does not seem to
be necessary to decide whether the title of the lot extends to

504

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the thread of the channel of the river, though if the soil was
originally part of the public lands of the United States, as
seems probable, the case of The Railroad Company v. SchurMier,* would limit the title to the margin of the stream.
But Whether the title of the owner of such a lot extends
beyond the dry land or not, he is certainly entitled to the
rights of a riparian proprietor whose land is bounded by a
navigable stream; and among those rights are access to the
navigable part of the river from the front of his lot, the right
to make a landing, wharf or pier for his own use or for the
use of the public, subject to such general rules and regulations as the legislature may see proper to impose for the
protection of the rights of the public, whatever those may
be. This proposition has been decided by this court in the
cases of .Dutton v. Strog,t and The Railroad Company v.
Schurmier, just cited. The Supreme Court of Wisconsin
has gone further, and asserts the doctrine that the title of
the owner of such a lot extends to the centre of the stream,
subject to the easement of the public in its use for navigation, and that he " may construct docks or landing-places for
goods or passengers, taking care that vessels employed in
navigating the stream are not impeded in their passage, nor
prevented from. the use of all parts of the stream which are
navigable."T
Thi ripaian right is property, and is valuable, and,
thoughit must be -6joyed in due subjection to the rights of
the public, it cannot be arbitrarily or capriciously destroyed
or impaired. It is aright of which, when once vested, the
owner can only be deprived in accordance with established
law, and if necessary that it be taken for the public good,
upob due compensation.
The act of the Wisconsin legislature, approved March 31,
1854, confers upon .the: city of Milwaukee the authority to
establish dock and wha'rf linies on the banks of the Milwaukee and Menomonee Rivers, and restrain and prevent
encroachments upon said-.rivers and obstructions thereto,
* 7 Wallace, 272.

Walker v. Shepardson, 4 Wisconsin, 486.

f 1 Black, 25.

Dec. 17.

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.
Opinion of the court.

and it is by this statute that the summary proceedings for
the removal of appellant's wharf are supposed to be authorized.. But the mere declaration by the city council, of
Milwaukee that a certain structure was an encroachment
or obstruction did not make it so, nor could such declaration make it a nuisance unless it in fact had that character. It is a doctrine not to be tolerated in this country,
that a municipal corporation, without any general laws
either of the city or of the State, within which a given
structure can be showfi to be a nuisance, can, by its mere
declaration that it is one, subject it to removal by any person supposed to be aggrieved, or even by the city itself.
This-would place every house, every business, and all the
property of the city, at the uncontrolled will of the temporary local authorities. Yet this seems to have been the view
taken by counsel who defended this case in the Circuit
Court; for that single 6rdinane of the city, declaring the
wharf of Yates a nuisance, and ordering its abatement, is
the only evidence in the record that it is a nuisance or an
obstruction to navigation, or in any manner injurious to the
public.
It is true that it is said in argument that the city council
has established a wharf and dock line under the authority
of the-statute we have cited, and that Yates's dock projects
beyond that line.
No such defence is set up in the answer, and the existence
of such a line, being a matter of which the court could not
take judicial notice, it cannot be taken into account here,
though there is some testimony on the subject as to two
different dock lines, one made before and the other after
Yates's wharf was built. But however this may be, we are
of opinion that the city of Milwaukee cannot, by creating a
mere artificial and imaginary dock line, hundreds of feet
away from the navigated part of the river, and without
making the river navigable up to that line, deprive riparian
owners of the right to avail themselves of the advantage of
the navigable channel by building wharves and docks to it
for that purpose.

YATES V MILWAUKEE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case of Yates v. Judd,* is much relied on as conclusive of the one before us. Not as a technical estoppel,
though one of the parties is grantor of the lot in question to
the present plaintiff, and the suit embraced some of the
points mooted here. But it is said that, as a case establishing the law of the State of Wisconsin on the questions
necessarily involved in the present suit, we are bound to
follow it in this court.
We do not see in that case any legal proposition decided
in conflict with what we have said in the previous part of
this opinion. The court held that from the plat made by
the original owners, who had laid out the lots, they would
infer a dedication of the space covered with water, in front
of the dry land of the lots, to public use, and that Yates's
wharf was an invasion of that public right. This question
of dedication, on which the whole of that case turned, wa@.
one of fact, to be determined by ascertaining the intention
of those who laid out the lots, from what they did, and from
the application of general common law principles to their
acts. This does not depend upon State statute or local State
law. The law which governs the case is the common law,
on which this court has never acknowledged the right of the
State courts to control our decisions, except, perhaps, in a
class of cases where the State courts have established, by
repeated decisions, a rule of property in regard to land titles
peculiar to the State.
This is not such a case. In every instance where the
question of a dedication might arise it would be decided on
the special facts of each case even in the Wisconsin courts,
and the case of Yates v. Judd lays down no principle of law
which would govern all such cases. The Supreme Court
inferred from the facts as presented in that case a dedication of the land between the lot, as ascertained by its given
dimensions, and the navigable channel of the river. That
question does not arise here, because, as we have already
seen, the case of Te Railroad Compavy v. Schurmier decided
* 18 Wisconsin, 118.

Dec. 1870.]

MEssENGER V. MASON.
Syllabus.

that if the lot, as thus described, came to the margin of the
stream, no title to the precise locality supposed to be dedicated ever passed from the United States.
Much, however, as we respect that court, we feel at liberty
to hold, as we do, that there is no valid dedication as the
case is presented to us.
On the whole we are of opinion that Sheparidson, as
riparian owner of a lot hounded by a navigable stream, had
a right to erect this whrf, afid that Yates, the appellant,
whether he be regarded as purchaser or as licensee, has the
same right; and that if the authorities of the city of Milwaukee deem its removal necessary in the prosecution of
any general scheme of widening the channel and improving
the navigation of the Milwaukee River, they must first make
him compensation for his property so taken for the public
use.
The d,,eree of the Circuit Court is therefore REVERSED,
with instructions to enter a decree enjoining the defendants
below from interfering with plaintiff's wharf, reserving,
however, the right of" the city to remove or change it so far
as may be necessary in the actual improvement of the navigability of the river, and
UPON DUE COMPENSATION MADE.

MESSENGER V.

MASON.

1. A certificate from the Supreme Court of Iowa (lately a Territory) that in
a case brought here from its final judgment, the validity of the Partition
Law of Iowa Territory, approved January 4th, 1839, was drawn in
question, on the ground that the same was in conflict with the Ordinance
of 1787, the Constitution of the United States, the treaties and laws
thereof, the objections thereto overruled, and the statute hold to be
valid against the rigfhts and interests of the defendant, as claimed by
them, presents the constitutional objection in too general a form to give
this court jurisdiction under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.

2. That section does ilot apply to the case where is drawn in question thc
validity of a statute of a Territory.

