152

BANK OF THE REPUBLIC V. MILLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It is true the court also charged that, as a general principle, the plaintiffs, as factors, were bound to use due diligence, care, and skill in the sale of the cotton, and to obey
instructions given them by the defendant in regard to the
sale. But this was not said as a qualification of the specific
instructions previously given, and the jury must have understood that if they found the facts as stated by the court,
they must charge the defendant with all the loss which
accrued after his failure to answer the plaintiffs' letter.
The judgment must, therefore, be
REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

BANK OF THE REPUBLIC V. MILLARD.
1. The holder of a bank check cannot sue the bank for refusing payment in
the absence of proof that it was adcepted by the bank or charged against
the drawer.
2. The fact that the check was properly drawn on a National bank (a public
depositary) by an officer of the government in favor of a public creditor,
does not alter' this general rule.

IN errorto the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
the case being this:
Millard, a captain in the military service of the United
States, was, in 1865, on leaving the service, a creditor of the
government for $859, arrears of pay as captain. In settlement of this account the proper paymaster of the army drew
and issued a check for that sum upon The National Bank
of the Republic, a depositary of public moneys and financial
agent of the United States, for the custody, transfer, and disbursement of the government funds, having funds for the
payment of the check.
Tile bank, as testimony tended to show, had once paid the
check on a forged indorsement of Millard's name. Ascertaining and exposing. the forgery, and recovering possession
of the check, Millard' now presented the same, demanding

Dec. 1869.]

BANK OF THE REPUBLIC V. MILLARD.

153

Argument for the holder of the check.

payment to himself. This payment the bank refused to
make. Thereupon he sued it, declaring on a special count
on the transaction, and also on a general count for money
had and received by the bank to his use.
On the trial the bank requested the court to charge, "that
unless the jury were satisfied from the evidence that it accepted the check in favor of the plaintiff, or his assignees, or
promised to pay the same to the plaintiff, or his assignees, he
was not entitled to recover." But the court refused so to
charge, and verdict and judgment having gone against the
bank, it brought the case here on error; the questions
here argued and considered being: 1st. The general one,whether the holder of a bank check could sue the bank for
refusing payment in the absence of proof that it was accepted.
by the bank or chargedagainst the drawer.- 2d. If not, whether
the fact existing in this particular case, that the check was
on a National bank (a public depositary of the government
funds) by an officer of the government, in favor of a public
creditor, varied the general rule.
.Mr.Edwin L. Stanton, in support of the judqment below:
1. It may be admitted that the holder of a bill of exchange
might not be able to sue without acceptance or a promise
of it; but no argument from analogy can hence be made
against such right in the holder of a common check drawn
against funds confessedly existing on deposit.
A bill of exchange is, prim.4 facie, a single transaction between the drawer and the drawee; the latter does not hold
himself out as the custodian aid disburser of the former's
money.. He may not be a debtor to him at all. And even
if he has money belonging to him, though an order to pay
over the exact sum would, on notice, operate as an equitable
assignment, yet he is under no obligation to pay it out in
fragments, nor to several persons. Hence, in the case of a
bill of exchange, a necessity may'arise for the drawee's acceptance. It is recognition by him of the drawer's cofhpetence to give the direction expressed by the bill.
But bank checks are drawn on common repositories where

BANK OF THE REPuBLIC V. MILLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

'Argument for the holder of the check.

many persons 'gree to keep their cash, to be always and immediately ready at their call or subject to their directions,
in any amount, to any and every payee. Such checks, therefore, require no acceptance. In point of fact, none is ever
given or thought of being asked for in regard to them. No
custom is more prevalent none more practically affects the
dealings of men, than the usage and regular course of business out of which arise an understanding and expectation
that a check, upon presentment for payment (if the drawer
has the money on deposit to meet it), transfers to the holder
the title to the money it calls for, and will at once be paid.
Upon the strength and convenience of this usage and understanding, checks pass from hand to hand like cash, and are
used in most payments and settlements between individuals
mid between banks.
The right of the holder to sue without acceptance has
been sustained in Illinois, in Munn v. Burch;* in South
Carolina in two cases,t as also in Louisiana.T And this
right rests upon what is said by this court in Mandeville v.
Weleh,ยง that "an obligation to accept may be fairly implied
fi'om the custom of trade or the course of business between
the parties as part of their contract.."
2. But this plaintiff, an officer of the government, bad a
special and. indeed a statutory right. - The National Bank
of the Republic was not a bank holding the deposits of a
common customer and transacting ordinary banking business. It was a financial agent of the United States; a depositary and disburser of its funds; directly and completely
the representative of the government, because the government can only act through its proper agent. The plaintiff
25 Illinois, 85; see also Chicago Marine Insurance Co. v. Stanford, 28
Id. 168.
- Fogarties v. State Bank and Ambler v. State Bank, 12 Richardson's
Law, 518.
. Vanbibber v. Louisiana Bank, 14 Louisiana Annual, 481.
5 Wheaton, 286; and see Carnegie v. Morrison, 2 Metcalf, 881 ; We-ton
v. Barker, 12 Johnson, 276; Russell v. Wiggin, 2 Story, 237; Brewer v.
Dyer, 7 Cushing, 837; 8 Kent, 1056, note A; Beawes' Lex Mercatoria, 871.

Dec. 1869.]

BANK OF THE REPUBLIC V. MILLARD.

155

Opinion of the court.

was a creditor of the United States. The money for his
payment was appropriated by law; his demand was admitted
and definitely ascertained and payable in money. The bank,
as agent of the government, held the sum set apart for his
payment. It held it therefore to his use, payable on his
proper demand, which was the presentment of this check.
By statute, the refusal of such an agent to obey such an
order and promptly pay such a check is, upon trial of an
indictment, prini facie evidence of embezzlement. Claiming credit for payment without having made payment is
conversion of the amount, punishable by fine and imprisonment.*
Messrs. Bradley and Cox, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question presented by the record which it is material to notice is this: Can the holder of a bank check sue
the bank for refusing payment, in the absence of proof that
it was accepted by the bank, or charged against the drawer ?
It is no longer an open question in this court, since the
decision in the cases of The Marine Bank v. The .Fulton
Bankt and of Thompson v. RBqgsj that the relation of banker
and customer, in their pecuniary dealings, is that of debtor
and creditor. It is an important part of th4 business of
banking to receive deposits, but when they are received,
unless there are stipulations to the contrary, they belong to
the bank, become part of its general funds, and can be
loaned by it as other moneys. The banker is accountable
for the deposits which he receives as a debtor, and he agrees
to discharge these debts by honoring the checks which the
depositors shall from time to time draw on him. The contract between the parties is purely a legal one, and has
* Act of Feb. 25, 1863, 12 Stat. at Large, 668; Act of June 8, 1864, 13
Id. 99; Act of Aug. 6, 1846, 9 Id. 69; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 816; Osborn v. T..S.' Bank, 9 Id. 738; Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wallace, 498.
t 2 Wallace, 252.
+ 6 Id. 663.

156

BANK OF THE REPUBLIC V. MILLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

nothing of the nature of a trust in it. This subject was fully
discussed by Lords Cottenham, Brougham, Lyndhurst, and
Campbell, in the House of Lords, in the case of Foley v.
.Hill,* and they all concurred in the opinion that the relation
between a banker and customer, who pays money into the
bank, or to whose credit money is placed there, is the ordinary relation of debtor and creditor, and does not partake
of a fiduciary character, and the great weight of American
authority is to the same effect.
As checks on bankers are in constant use, and have been
adopted by the commercial world generally as a substitute
for other modes of payment, it is important, for the security
of all parties concerned, that there should be no mistake
about the status, which the holder of a check sustains
towards the bank on which it is drawn. It is very clear
that he can sue the drawer if payment is refused, but can
he also, in such a state of case, sue the bank? It is conceded that the depositor can bring assumpsit for the breach
of the contract to honor his checks, and if the holder has a
similar right, then the anomaly is presented of a right of
action upon one promise, for the same thing, existing in two
distinct persons, at the same time. On principle, there can
be no foundation for'an action on the part of the holder,
unless there is a privity of contract between him and the
bank. How can there be such a privity when the bank owes
no duty and is under no obligation to the holder? The
holder takes the check on the credit of the drawer in the
belief that he has funds to meet it, but in no sense can the
bank be said to be connected with the transaction. If it
were true that there was a privity of contract between the
banker and holder when the check was given, the bank
would be obliged to pay the check, although the drawer,
before it was presented, had countermanded it, and although
oLher checks, drawn after it was issued, but before payment
of it was demanded, had exhausted the funds of the depositor. If such a result should follow the giving of checks,
2 Clark and Finnelly, 28.

Dec. 1869.]

BANK OF THE REPUB1LIC V. MILLARD.

157

Opinion of the court.

it is easy-to see that bankers would be compelled to abandon
altogether the business of keeping deposit accounts for thdir
custoners. If, then, the bank did not contract with the
holder of the check to pay it at the time it was given, how
can it be said that it owes any duty to the holder until the
check is presented and accepted ? The right of the depositor,
as was said by an eminent judge,* is a chose in action, and
his check does n6t transfer the debt, or give a lien upon it
to a third person without the assent of the depositary. This
is a well-established principle of law, and is sustained by the
English and American decisious.t
The few cases which assert a contrary doctrine, it would
serve no useful purpose to review.
Testing tho case at bar by these legal rules, it is apparent
that the court below, after the plaintiff closed his case,
should have instructed the jury, as requested by the defendant, that the plaintiff, on the evidence submitted by him,
was not entitled to recover. The defendant did not accept
the check for the plaintiff, nor promise him to pay it, but,
on the contrary, refused to do so. If it were true, as the
evidence tended to show, that the bank, befo're the check
came to the plaintiff's hands, paid it on a forged indorsenent of his signature, to a person not authorized to receive
the money, it does not follow that the bank promised the
plaintiff to pay the money again to him, on the presentation
of the check by him for payment.
It may be, if it could be shown that the bank had charged
the check on its books against the.drawer, and settled with
him on that -Basis, that the plaintiff could recover on the
" Gardiner, J., Chapman v. White, 2 Selden, 417.
- Chapman v. White, 2 Selden, 412; Butterworth v. Peck, 5 Bosworth,
341; Ballard v. Randall, 1 Gray, 605; Harker v. Anderson, 21 Wendell,
373; Dykers v. Leather Manufacturing Co.,11 Paige, 616; National Bank
v. Eliot Bank, 6 Americaii Law Register, 711 ; Parsons on Bills and Notes,
edition of 1863, pp. 69, 60, 61, and notes; Parke, Baron, in argument in
Bellamy v. Majoribanks, 8 English Law and Equity, 522, 628; Wharton v.
Walker, 4 Barnewall & Cresswell, 163; Warwick v.Rogers, 5 Manning &
Granger, 374; Byles on Bills, chapter "Check on a Banker;" Grant on
Banking, London editionj 18661 96.

DEAN V.

NLSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

count'for money had and received, on the ground that the
rule ex xquo et bono would be applicable, as -the bank, having
assented to the order and communicated its assent to the
paymaster, would be considered as holding the money thus
appropriated for the plaintiff's use, and therefore, under an
implied promise to him to pay it on demand.
It is hardly necessary to say, that the check in question
having been drawn on a public depositary, by an officer of
the government, in favor of a public creditor, cannot change
the rights of the parties to this suit. The check was commercial paper, and subject to the laws which govern such
paper, and it can make no difference whether the parties to
it are p)rivate persons or public agents.*
As soon as the deposit was made to the credit of Lawler
as paymaster, the bank was authorized to deal with it as its
own, and became answerable to Lawler for the debt in the
same manner that it would have been had the deposit been
placed to his personal credit.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

DEAN V. NELSON.
1. A sale of stock in a company at its par value, the consideration to be
paid out of the net receipts of earnings of the stock, received quarterly
by the company, and a note given therefor, with the condition that the
principal should become due if the instalments were not regularly paid;
h-eld a valid sale under the circumstances.

2. Such a condition in the note is not a penalty, but is of the substance of
the 'contract.
3. A mortgage to secure such note being given upon the grantee's interest.
as a stockholder in the property of the company, the equity of redemp,tion is not extinguished by proceedings to foreclose the same during the
war, when such proceedings were taken within the Union lines, whilst
the defendants were absent in the Confederate lines and were prohibited
from entering the Union lines.

The United States v. Bank of Metropolis, 15 Peters, 877.

