Dec. 1870.]

IN RX PASCHAL.
Statement of the case.

court, to the effect, that it being equally divided in opinion
upon the questions, the case would be remitted to the court
below for the purpose of enabling that court to take such
action therein as it might be advised; this direction being in
conformity, the learned justice observed, with the opinion of
the court in Silliman v. The Hudson River Bridge Company.*
ORDER ACCORDINGLY.

IN RE PASCHAL.
1. The attorney or solicitor, who is also counsel in a cause, has a lien on
moneys collected therein for his fees and disbursements in the cause,
and in any suit or proceeding brought to recover other moneys covered
by the same retainer.
2. A motion to pay into court the moneys collected will not be granted,
but the parties will be left to their action, if the attorney is guilty of
no bad faith or'improper conduct, and has a fair set-off against his
client, which the latter refuses to allow.
8. A party has a general right to change his attorney, and a rule for that
purpose will be granted, leaving to the attorney the advantage of any
lien he may have on papers or moneys in his hands as security for his
fees and disbursements.
THESE were two motions on George W. Paschal, an attorney and counsellor of this court, and as such lately representing the State of Texas in suits which it had here. The
first motion being in the case of that State against White,
Chiles and others (No. 4 on the original docket), already
largely reported; the second, in the case of the same complainant against Peabody & Co. (No. 6 on that same docket),
not yet in any way adjudged.
In the first of the cases the motion was for an order on
Paschal to pay to the clerk of this court, for the benefit of
the State of Texas, the sum of $47,325 in gold, alleged to
have been received by him under the decree in the first of
the two cases above mentioned. In the other (the suit
* 1 Black, 582.

484

IN RE PASCHAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

against Peabody & Co.), that the name of the said Paschal
be stricken from the docket as counsel for the complainant,
and that he be forbidden to interfere with the case. Rules
to show cause having been granted, with leave to either
party to file affidavits, Paschal, at the return of the rules,
answered, filing a statement under oath by way of cause
why the motions should not be granted.
, This answer, in the first of the two cases, set forth the
history of the litigation instituted for the recovery of the
Texas indemnity bonds and the part taken by him therein,
both in the two cases in which these motions are made and
in other cases and proceedings. A portion of this history is
published in the report of Texas v. While, Chiles, et al.,* and
a portion in the case of Texas v. Rardenberq.t
The answer admitted that the respondent had received
the sum alleged, viz., $47,325 in gold, paid under the decrees of this court, but alleged that his disbursements had
been $13,355.98 (of which he gave an account by items), and
that his charge for services was $20,000 in the case of Texas
v. While, Chiles, et al., alone; the reasonableness of which
charge was corroborated by affidavits of highly respectable
counsel. The balance, and much more, he claimed as due
to him from the State of Texas for his services in relation
to others of this same lot of indemnity bonds, for the recovery of which he was originally retained by the governor
of Texas, as well as for other matters specified in the answer, into the merits of which the court deemed it not
necessary for it to go, inasmuch as neither party had asked
it to settle or liquidate the accounts between them.
It appeared by the answer that at the breaking out of the
rebellion there were in the treasury of Texas seven hundj-d
bonds of the United States of $1000 each, belonging to the
school fund of the State, and known as the Texas Indemnity Bonds, being part of the $5,000,000 of bonds delivered
to the State at the time of its admission into the Union.
These bonds by their terms were payable .to the bearer, but
* 7 Wallace, 700.

t Supra, 68.

Dec. 1&70.]

IN RE PASCHAL.
Statement of the case.

by statute of Texas were required to be indorsed in order to
be available in the hands of the holder. The particular
bonds which were the subject of the respondent's services,
had not been indorsed by any governor of the State, but its
military board nevertheless disposed of them.for the purpose of aiding in carrying on the war. Of these bonds one
hundred and thirty-six came into the hands of White, Chiles,
and bthers, about one hundred and fifty into the hands of
Peabody & Co., and various others into the hands of other
persons. It was contended by these parties, that having
received the bonds in good faith, they were entitled to be
paid their full amount by the government of the United
States, and many of them were so paid. But it was set up
by the answer to the present rules, that, by the indefatigable
exertions of the respondent, payment was stopped on a large
number of the bonds, and suits were instituted against the
parties who had received them, or had received the money
secured by them.
The respondent was employed by A.. J. Hamilton, the
provisional governor of Texas, in 1865, to carry on these
prosecutions. He first commenced a suit against White,
Chiles, et al., in Texas, but not being able to serve them
with process he removed his operations to Washington, and
there commenced the suit, now No. 4 on the original docket,
in which the money in question was recovered. le also
took the proper steps and presented elaborate arguments in
the treasury department to prevent a redemption of the
bonds and to render the prosecution effectual; being partially successful in this object, as before mentioned. No stipulation was made with Governor Hamilton for any certain
f'ee for these services, but it was understood between them
that the respondent should charge such fees as the responsibility, expense, time, skill, and services should render
proper. On the faith of this understanding, the respondent
left his home in Texas, where his practice was lucrative, and
came to the North to attend to this business. For a time,
on a change of local administration in Texas, other counsel
were employed in the cases, but never, as it appeared, to

IN

[Sup. Ct.

RE PASCHAL.

Statement of the case.

the entire displacement of the respondent; and in December, 1867, he received the following special engagement
from E. M. Pease, then governor of Texas:
"EXECUTIVE

OF TEXAS,

"AUSTIN, December 3d, 1867.
"GEORGE W.

PASCHAL, ESQ.

"DEAR SIR: Your two letters, of the 9th and 14th of November, came together a day or two since. I had intended to
write you before this, and ask you to make a thorough examination of the suit at Washington in behalf of the State against
Chiles and others, for certain United States bonds belonging to
the school fund of Texas, but a great press of business has prevented me from doing it. I now wish you to make such an examination, and make a full report thereon to this office as early
as possible. In the meantime you are fully authorized to take
charge of and represent the interest of the State in said suit.
Your compensation will be dependent upon the action of a
future legislature, unless a recovery is had in the suit, in which
event I shall feel authorized to let you retain it out of the
amount received.
"Yours, with respect,
"E.

M. PEASE."

The power of the governor to make such an arrangement
was not disputed. The legislature, in October previous, had
passed an act expressly authorizing him to take such steps,
as he might deem proper to recover possession of these
bonds, and to compromise with the parties holding them, or
through whose hands they had passed. The respondent
accepted these terms and continued to manage and conduct
the subsequent litigation, both in this case of White, Chiles,
et al., and other cases. In addition to the above letter,
Governor Pease, on the 13th of November, 1868, executed
to him a power of attorney, constituting him his agent and
attorney in fact, to represent the State 6f Texas in any suits
then pending, or thereafter to be instituted, in any courts in
the District of Cohimbia, in relation to any of the said bonds,
with power to settle and compromise with any of the parties.
Under these various retainers and engagements, the re-

Dec. 1870.]

IN RE, PASCHAL.
Statement of the case.

spondent gave his attention for several years to the recovery
of the bonds, and finally succeeded in recovering the amount
before mentioned from the defendants in the case of White,
Chiles, and others, and made considerable progress in negotiating a settlement of those which had come to the hands
of Peabody & Co. In June, 1869, Governor Pease visited
Washington, and on being made acquainted with the respondent's proceedings, approved of the same, and entered
into a further arrangement with him in relation to 300 of
the said bonds, which had been carried to Europe by one
Swisher (of which the Peabody bonds were a part), by which
he agreed that the respondent should be paid for carrying
the litigation through, twenty-five per cent. on the one hundred and forty-nine bonds received by Peabody & Co., and
twenty per cent. on the remainder, being one hundred and
fifty-one bonds, in the hands of Droege & Co. Under this
arrangement the respondent continued his negotiations with
these parties, and was, as he believed, near efficting a satisfactory arrangement and settlement with them, when, on or
about the 27th of January, 1870, he received a telegram from
E. J. Davis, who had been appointed provisional governor
of Texas, in place of Governor Pease, that his appointment
as agent for the State of Texas was revoked. A letter from
the governor was received shortly after, containing a formal
revocation of the respondent's authority as such agent, and
of the power to represent the governor of Texas, given to
him by Governor Pease. The respondent alleges that this
interference on the part of Governor Davis put an end to the
negotiations for settlement with Droege & Co., and Dabney,
Morgan & Co. (parties who had received the money on the
Peabody bonds), and was entirely unauthorized by the
governor, and entitles him to receive the contingent fees of
twenty-five and twenty per cent., as before meiitioned, and
to continue as attorney and counsel in the case'until his
demand is settled.
He also asserts that the State of Texas is indebted to him
in a balance of $17,577 for publishing, binding, and delivering to the secretary of state of Texas, 400 copies each of

IN RE PASCHAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the attorney.

five volumes of reports of the decisions of the Supreme
Court of Texas, which he reported under the laws of the
State; also that the State owes him $1000 for bringing two
suits in the District Court of Travis County, and presenting
appeals therein to the Supreme Court of the State.
On the part of the State of Texas it was shown, not only
that the governor had revoked the respondent's authority,
but that lie had appointed Mr. Durant as attorney and agent
of the State in his stead, with authority to receive all moneys
due to the State; and that Mr. Durant had made due demand of the respondent for the moneys in his hands, and
had required him not to intermeddle further in the suit of

Texas v. Peabody et al.
Mr. A. G. Riddle, for the respondent:
1. As to the rule in the first case. Attorneys at law and
solicitors in equity have, undoubtedly, by the English rule,
a general lien, not only upon all the papers and documents
of their clients in their possession, not only for all the costs
and charges due to them in the particular cause in which
the papers and documents conic to their possession, but also
for the costs and charges due to them for other professional
business and employment in other causes; and this lieu extends to all moneys received and judgments recovered. The
rule is applied in the United States, for the protection of the
bar generally. The whole subject is presented in a learned
and able note by Mr. T. W. Dwight, in the American Law
Register.*
The fact that the fee is a contingent fee, does not affect
the case. Such fees are lawful in Texas,t and have been
recognized by this court in Wylie v. Coxe.t
* Vol. 10 (or Vol. 1, Now Series), 414; see also Wylie v. Coxe, 15 Howard, 415; Ex parte Plitt, 2 Wallace, Jr., 453; Pinder v. Morris, 2 Caines,
165; Martin v. Hawks, 15 Johnson, 405; St. John v. Dieffiidorf, 12 Wendell, 261; Bradt v. Koon, 4 Cowan, 416; Hutchinson v. Howard, 15 Vermont, 544; Hutchinson v. Pettes, 18 Id. 614; Gammon v. Chandlei, 30
Maine, 152; Frost v. Belmont, 6 Allen, 152; McDonald v. Napier, 14
Georgia, 99; Patten v. Wilson, 34 Pennsylvania State, 299.
T Hill v. Cunningham, 25 Texas, 31.
$ 15 Howard, 415.

IN RE PASCHAL.

Dec. 1870.]

Argument for the client.

Finally, the respondent shows that he retains the fund in
good faith. This being so, the rule must fall.*
2. As to the rule in the second case. It is not pretended that
any cause exists for Mr. Pasehal's removal, except the wish
of the present governor of Texas. But a contract for a contingent fee having been made, and Mr. Paschal having
entered upon his work, and spent much time, labor, and
thought upon it, and incurred heavy expenses, he is not dischargeable at all, or, if so, dischargeable only on payment
of his full fee. He has neglected other business to devote
himself to this great claim; he has made arrangements affecting his whole course of life. He is interested pecuniarily
and by contract in a recovery, as actually as the State of
Texas is. He cannot sue that State for the balance remaining above the sum which lie can get from the fund in his
hand. His only chance, since a disturbance has arisen between him and the governor of Texas, is success in the case,
and a recovery from Peabody & Co. Our argument rests
on the fact that the fee was to be contingent on recovery.
That class of fees has been decided to be lawful, and the
court cannot apply the ancient chivalric rules which govern
counsellor and client in countries or states where the relation is purely honorary, and where no action will lie for even
the quantum merit to the new class of cases. The matter is,
in them, one of business and contract; not of mere confidence and honor. In Wylie v. Coxe, Mr. Coxe had been
employed by one Baldwin, upon a contract for a contingent
fee. Baldwin died, and his administrator sought to revoke
the powers of Coxe. But this court said that it could not
be done, except upon payment of the fees. And the reason
is obvious. It is because such an attorney has a power,
coupled with an interest.
Mr. Durant, contra:
As to the motion in the first case. The defence presents the
remarkable case of a lawyer recovering a large sum of money
* Pittman's Case, 1 Curtis, 186.

IN RE PASCHAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the client.

for his client, and then not only keeping the whole of it, but
claiming an enormous sum beside. The percentage claimed
is excessive. In Wylie v. Coxe, the contingent fee was but
5 per cent., and the money had been all recovered by Mr.
Coxe, leaving the remaining 95 clear to the client's hand.
The fruitlessness of the recovery to the client in this case,
owing to the percentages claimed for Mr. Paschal, and the
sums paid out for other counsel, is itself a sufficient argument in favor of the rule asked fbr.
By the settled laws of England a barrister cannot sue for
his fees. This court has never decided that he could. Coxe
v. WYlie does not decide this, nor anything pertinent to our
case; for the services rendered by Mr. Coxe were not rendered in any court, nor as a barrister, but were in obtaining
an act of Congress and in proving the case before a board of
commissioners. Probably any intelligent man, acquainted
with business and politics, could have done the same service
as Mr. Coxe did.
If cou'nsel can sue for fees he has no lien for money in his
hands, and must deposit it in court. The privilege of lien
is one given to attorneys only. At all events he cannot set
up a lien on moneys not the specific product of his effort in
the case. "The lien," says Lord Cottenham, "upon the
fund realized in the suit is confined to the costs of that suit."*
Here Mr. Paschal seeks to retain a large balance obtained
in one case for services (as he conceives) in another; services
which were to be paid for only in case of his getting certain
moneys; moneys which he has failed to get.
Those who contract with the State, must rely on the'discretion and good faith of the legislative body. It is a presumption of law that the sovereign power will do justice.t
As to the rule in the second case. The governor had the
legal right to discharge Mr. Paschal.1 Even in cases of
'Bozon v. Bolland, 4 Mylne & Craig, 354.
t Gibbons v. United States, 8 Wallace, 274.
I Earl Cholmondeley v. Lord Clinton, 19 Veseyr, 272, 274, 276; Beer. v.
Ward, Jacob's Chancery; 77; Bricheno v. Thorp, lb. 300; Johnson et al.
v. Marriott, 2 Crompton & Meeson, 188.

Dec. 1870.]

IN RE PASCHAL.
Opinion of the court.

contracts for personal service for a fixed period, the employer may discharge the servant.* The fact that the fee
was contingent don't affect the case.t
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The application made on .the first of these cases (No. 4),
for an order on the respondent to pay money into court is
in the nature of a proceeding as for a contempt. The application is based upon the power which the court has over its
own oflicers to prevent them from, or punish them for, committing acts of dishonesty or impropriety calculated to bring
contempt upon the administration of justice. For such improper ponduct the court may entertain summary proceedings by attachment against any of its officers, and may, in
its discretion, punish them by fine or imprisonment, or disci.%rge them from the functions of their offices, or require
hemn to perform their professional or official duty under
pain of discharge or imprisonment. The ground of the jur ,diction thus exercised is the alleged misconduct of the
officer. If an attorney have collected money-for his client,
it i, prirn facie his duty, after deducting his own costs and
dilbursements, to pay it over to such client; and his refusal
to do this, without some good excuse, is gross misconduct
and dishonesty on his part, calculated to bring discredit on
the court and on the administration of justice. It is this
misconduct on which the court seizes as a ground of jurisdiction to compel him to pay the money, in conformity with
his professional'duty. The application against him in such
cases is not equivalent to an action of debt or assumpsit, but
is a quasi criminal proceeding, in which the question is not
merely whether the attorney has received the money, but
whether he has acted improperly and dishonestly in not
paying it over. If no dishonesty appears the party will be
Orphan Asylum v. Mississippi Marine Insurance Company, 8 Louisiana Reports (Thos. Curry), 181.
t Carpenter v. Sixth Avenue Railroad, 10 American Law Register (vol.
1, New Series), 411.

492

IN RE PASCHAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

left to his action. The attoriey may have cross demands
against his client, or there may be disputes between them
on the subject proper for a jury or a court of law or equity
to settle. If such appear to be the case, and no professional
misconduct be shown to exist, the court will not exercise its
summary jurisdiction. And as the proceeding is in the nature of an attachment for a contempt, the respondent ought
to be permitted to purge himself by his oath. "If he clear
himself by his answers," says Justice Blackstone, "the complaint is totally dismissed."*
All, then, that we are concerned to ascertain and decide
on this motion is, whether the respondent retains the money
in his hands in bad faith, and is therefore guilty of any such
misconduct as will justify the court in interposing its authority in a summary way.
Upon a consideration of the facts disclosed by the answer
and affidavits, the result to which the court has come, in relation to the money retained by the respondent, is, that he
has not been guilty of any misconduct which calls for the exercise of)summary jurisdiction. We see no reason to suppose that he is not acting in good faith; and whether his
claim to the entire amount be valid or not-(a point which
we are not called, upon to decide)-it is clear that the claim
is honestly made.
The case is one in which the parties
should be left to the usual remedy at law, where the questions of law and fact which are mooted, between them can
be more satisfactorily settled than they can be in a summary
proceeding.
A good deal has been said in the argument on the question whether the respondent has, or has not, a lien on the
moneys in his hands. We do not think that the decision
of this motign depends alone on that question. For, even
if he has not a lien coextensive with the sum received, yet
if he has a fair and honest set-off; which ought in equity to
be allowed by the complainant, that fact has a material bearing on the implied charge of misconduct which underlies
* 4 Commentaries, 288.

Dec. 1870.]

IN RE PASCHAL.
Opinion of the court.

the motion for an order to pay over the money. And when,
as in this case, there exists a technical barrier to prevent
the respondent from instituting an action against his client
(for it is admitted that lie cannot sue the State of Texas for
any demand which he may have against it), it would seem
to be against all equity to compel him to pay over the fund
in his hands, and thus strip him of all means of bringing his
claims to an issue. Whilst, on the other hand, no difficulty
exists in the State instituting an action against him for
money bad and received, and thus bringing the legality of
his demands to a final determination.
BuLt in the judgment of the court the respondent has a
lien upon the fund in his hands for at least the amount of
his fees and disbursements in relation to these indemnity
bonds. His original retainer by Governor Hamilton related
to all the bonds indiscriminately, and much of the service
rendered by him has been rendered indiscriminately in relation to them all. With regard to the White and Chiles
bonds the agreement of Governor Pease was express, that
in case of recovery the respondent might retain his compensation out of the amount received. In Englapd, and in
several of the States, it is held that an attorney or solicitor's
lien on papers or money of his client in possession extends
to the whole balance of his account for professional services.
But whether that be or be not the better rule, it can hardly
be contended that, in this case, it does not extend to all the
fees and disbursements incurred in relation to all of these
indemnity bonds. And, in this country, the distinction between attorney or solicitor and counsel is practically abolished in nearly all the States. The lawyer in charge of a
case acts both as solicitor and counsel. His services in the
one, capacity and the other cannot be well distinguished.
And, as a general rule, counsel fees, as well as those of attorney or solicitor, constitute a legal demand for which an
action will lie. And whilst, as between party and party in
a cause, the statutory fee bill fixes the amount of costs to be
recovered, as between attorney or solicitor and client a different rule obtains. The claim of the attorney or solicitor

IN RE PASCHAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in the latter case, even in England, extends to all proper
disbursements made in the litigation, and to the customary
and usual fees for the services rendered.
The fee bill adopted by Congress in 1853 recognizes this
general rule and, in ftet, adopts it. By the first section of
that act it is expressly declared, that nothing therein shall
be construed to prohibit attorneys, solicitors, and proctors
from charging to, and rec'eiving from, their clients, other
than the government, such reasonable compensation for
their services, in addition to the taxable costs, as may be in
accordance With general usage in their respective States, or
may be agreed upon between the parties.
The change in the rule relative to fees and costs has been
gradually going on for a long period. In Pennsylvania,
counsel fbes could not be recovered in.an. action so late as
1819, when the case of Mooney v. Lloyd,* was decided. But,
in the subsequent case of Foster v. Jack, decided in 1885,t
the contrary was held in a very able opinion delivered by
Chief Justice Gibson. And in Balsbaugh v. Frazer,j Chief
Justice Black delivered the opinion of the court in a series
of propositions which strongly commend themselves for
their good sense and just discrimination. The court there
held that in Pennsylvania an attorney or counsellor may
recover whatever his services are reasonably worth;- that
such claim, like any other which arises out of a contract,
express or implied, may be defilked against an adverse demand; that an attorney who has money in his hands, which
he has recovered for his client, may deduct his fees from
the amount; that if he retain the money with a fraudulent
intent the court will inflict summary punishment upon him;
but if his answer to a rule against him convinces thje court
that it was held back in good faith, and believed not to be
more than an honest compensation, the rule will be dismissed, and the clienit remitted to a jury trial.
In New York, counsel fees have always been recoverable on a quantum meruit. In the case of Stevens & Cagger v.
6 Sergeant & Rawle, 411.
19 Pennsylvania State, 96.

t 4 Watts, 384.

Dec. 1870.]

IN RE PASCHAL.
Opinion of the court.

Adans,* Stevens recovered $300 for counsel fees and $50 for
maps made to be used in a cause. It was held by the
court that the fee bill, which declares it unlawful to demand
or charre more than therein limited, has reference only to
the question of costs as between party and party, and not as
between counsel and client. The arguments of Chancellor
Walworth and Senators Lee and Verplank, in the Court of
Errors, on the general subject, were exceedingly lucid and
able, going to show that in this country the counsellor is regarded as entitled to a fair remuneration for his services,
and to recover the same in an action either upon an express
or implied contract. The code has since abolished the fee
bill, and left attorneys and solicitors to make their own
bargains with their clients. But the courts have held that
this, change has not affected the attorney's lien, even on the
judgment recovered, for the amount which it has been
agreed he shall receive. - In one case he was to receive onehalf the amount to be recovered. Judgment was obtained
for $1179, and the court held that the attorney had a lien on
this judgment for his half of it, and that the defendant could
not safely settle with the plaintiff without paying hini.t
In Texas the law has been held substantially the same.
In the case of Casey v. March,t it was decided that an attorney has a lien on the papers and documents received from
his client, and on money collected by him in the cours6 of
his profession, for the fees and disbursements on account
of such claims, and for his compensation for his services in
the collection of the money. If, as the respbndent contends,
this case is to be governed by the law of Texas, it is decidedly in favor of his lien, at least to the extent of his services and disbursements in relation to the indemnity bonds.ยง
As the original retainer was made in Texas, we are inclined
to the opinion that the rights of the parties are to be regu* 28 Wendell, 57; S. C., 26 Id. 451.

t Rooney v.Second Avenue Railroad Company, 18 New York, 868.
t 80 Texas, 180.
See the cases of kinsey v.Stewart, 14 Texas, 457 ; Myers v. Crockett,
lb. 257; Ratcliffv. Baird, lb. 48; Hill v. Cunningham, 25 Id. 25.

IN RE PASCHAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lated by the laws of that State. Bat if this be not the case,
this court would be guided by what it deems to be the prevailing rule in this country ; and, according to this rule, we
are of opinion that the respondent has a lien on the fund in
his hands for his disbursements and professional fees in
relation to the indemnity bonds; and that in retaining the
said fund for the purpose of procuring a settlenent of his
claim he has done nothing to call for the summary interpbsition of this court.
The motion for an order in case No. 4, to compel the respondent, George W. Paschal, to pay to the clerk of this
court the money received by him, is therefore DENIED.
The other motion we think should be granted. The respondent,. as appears from his answer, was employed by
Governor Pease to proceed with and carry through the litigation relating to the 300 bonds in the hands of Peabody &
Co. and Droege & Co., with a stipulation to receive 25 per
C. O
cent. of the amount that might be recovered on 149
bonds, and 20 per cent. of the amount to be reco. cred oi,
the remainder. Granting it to be true that this coi:t,:':v:u
was definitely concluded (although there seems to have bca
some uncertainty as to one part of it), it cannot be seri.L-5l
claimed that the complainant is so fixed and tied up by the
arrangement that it cannot change its attorney and employ
such other counsel as it may see fit,-always being responsible,
of course, for the consequences of breaking its contract with
the respondent. Whether in discharging him the State has
made itself liable for the whole contingent fee agreed upon,
or only for so much as the respondent's actual disbursements and services were worth up to the time of his discharge, or for nothing whatever, it is not necessary for us to
decide. That question can be more properly determined in
some other proceeding instituted for the purpose. The relations between counsel and client are of a very delicate and
confidential character, and unless the utmost confidence prevails between them the client's interests must necessarily
suffer. Whether in any case, in virtue of an agreement
',

Dec. 1870.]

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.
Syllabus.

made, an attorney may successfully resist an application of
his client to substitute another in his place, we need not
stop to inquire. In this case one of the States of this Union
is the litigant, and moves to change its attorney for reasons
which are deemed sufficient by its responsible officers. It
is abundantly able, and it must be presumed will be willing,
to compensate the respondent for any loss he may sustain
in not being continued in the management of the cause.
The court cannot hesitate in permitting the State to appear
and conduct its causes by such counsel as it shall choose to
represent it, leaving the respondent to such remedies for the
redress of any injury he may sustain as may be within his
power. Under the decision which we have just made in
relation to the money in his hands, he will be able to retain
that fund and any papers and documents belonging to his
client until his claims shall be adjudicated in such action as
the State may see fit to institute therefor.
An order to discharge the respondent, George W. P'aschal,
as solicitor and counsel for the complainant in the second
case, No. 6, will be GRANTED.
No COSTS will be allowed to either party on these motions.
ORDERS ACCORDINGLY.

YATES V. MILWAUKEE.
1. The owner of land bounded by a navigable river has certain riparian
rights, whether his title extend to the middle of the stream or not.
2. Among these are, free access to the navigable part of the stream, and the
right to make a landing, wharf, or pier for his own use, or for the use
of the public.
3. These rights are valuable, and are property, and can be taken for the
public good only when due compensation is made.
4. They are to be enjoyed subject to such general rules and laws as the legis'lature may prescribe for the protection of the public right in the river
as a navigable stream.
VOL. x.

82

