Dec. 1870.]

CAMPBELL V.

WILCOX.

Statement of the case.

CAMPBELL V. WILCOX.
1. Under the act of July 13th, 1866 (14 Stat. at Large, 142), which requires
promissory notes to be stamped, making them void only when the stamp
is omitted with intent to defraud the government of the stamp duty, a
fraudulent omission cannot be taken advantage of on demurrer.
2. An averment in a declaration that the defendants had made and delivered
to the plaintiffs their promissory notes, implies that the instruments
were at the time in the form and condition required by law.
8. The filing of a plea to the merits after a demurrer is overruled, operates
as a waiver of the demurrer.
4. Judgment affirmed with 10 per cent. damages, where a party.brought a
writ of error here denying such points as those above stated.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio.
A statute of July 13th, 1866,* enacts, that any person
who shall accept, negotiate, or pay, or cause to be accepted,
negotiated, or paid, any promissory.note, without the same
being duly stamped, or having an adhesive stamp for denoting the tax chargeable thereon, and cancelled, &c., "with
intent to evade the provisions of the act," shall forfeit $50, and
that such instrument or note "not being stamped according
to law, shall be deemed invalid and of np effect." A mode
is provided in the act by which instruments may be stamped
after being issued.
These provisions being in forc, Wilcox sued A. &. L.
Campbell in the court below, declaring upon four promissory notes of theirs, dated 4th August, 1866. The declaration contained the usual averments according to the established precedents in such cases, but did not aver that the
notes were stamped as required by the act of Congress,
either at their date or at any subsequent time. The defendants demurred generally. The demurrer was overruled, and
they pleaded to the merits. The case being submitted by
consent to the court without the intervefition of a jury,
14 Stat. at Large, 142,
June 30th, 1854.

168; amending the Internal Revenue'Act of

CAMPBELL V. WILCOX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

judgment was given in favor of the plaintifs for $10,805.
On error the only question was on the demurrer.
Mr. Stanbery, for the plaintiff in error:
The English precedents of declaration upon instruments
subject to stamp duties, do not indeed contain an averment
that they were stamped at their date, or at any subsequent
time, but they are not in point, for the want of a stamp does
not in England invalidate the instrument, but only excludes
it from being used in evidence until stamped. Our statutes
declare the unstamped instrument invalid until a stamp is
affixed by an application to an internal revenue officer. If
the stamp is necessary to give validity to the instrument, it
would seem that the declaration should aver that the note
was stamped.
.Mr. W. Cornell, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question in this case arises upon the demurrer
to the declaration. The action is upon four promissory
notes of the defendants, and the declaration contains the
usual averments according to the established precedents in
such cases, but does not aver that the notes were stamped as
required by the act of Congress, either at their date or at
any subsequent time. The demurrer is general, that the
declaration does not set forth ficts sufficient in law to constitute a good cause of action ; but the omission of an averment, in the particular mentioned, constitutes the special
ground of objection presented in the brief of counsel.
To the objection there are several answers. In the first
place, the act of Congress which requires promissory notes

and other instruments to be stamped, only declares that they
"shall be deemed invalid and of no effect" wheni the
stamp is omitted

"

with intent to evade the provisions " of

the act-that is, with intent to defraud the government of
the stamp duty. It is a fraudulent and not an accidental
omission at which the penalty of the statute is levied. Such

Dec. 1870.]

UNITED

STATES V.

VIGIL.

Syllabus.

fraudulenjt omission, if available at all to the maker of the
note, can only be set up by special plea or urged on the trial.
It cannot be taken advantage of on demnurrer.
In the second place, if a stamp were -essential to the validity of paper of this kind, the averment in the declaration
that the defendants had made and delivered to the plaintiff
their promissory notes, would imply that the instruments
were at the time in the form and condition required by law.
It bas been held that in a declaration upon a conitract, some
memorandum of which, under the statute of frauds, must
be in writing, a compliance with the requisition of the statute
is implied in the averment that the contract was made, and
that such compliance need not be specifically stated, although
it must be proved if denied by the defendant. So in this
case the existence of a stamp upon the notes, as in the case
stated, the existence of a writing, is a matter of evidence
and not of pleading.*
In the third place, the filing of a plea to the merits after
the demurrer was overruled, operated as a waiver of the
demurrer. The pleading was thus abandoned, and ceased
thenceforth to be a part of the record.t
The defence is without merit, and the writ of error appears to us to have been prosecuted merely for delay. The
judgment will therefore be
AFFIRMED WITH TEN PER CENT.

UNITED

DAMAGES.

STATES V. VIGIL.

1. The court refused to dismiss an appeal by the United States from the
Territory of New Mexico, though, contrary to the usually obligatory
rule of practice, a transcript of the record bad not been filed in this
court until about two years after the end of the next term after the
1 Chitty, Pleadings, 804.
t Clearwater v. Meredith, 1 Wallace, 42; Aurora City v. West, 7 Id. 92;
Young v. Martin, 8 Id. 354; Brown v. Saratoga Railroad Company, 18 New
York, 495.

