THE ] ALORAMAi

[-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

them, or that such facts and circumstances were known to
them as were sufficient to put them upon inquiry and to
show that if they had used due diligence they would have
ascertained that the master was not authorized to obtain
any such relief on the credit of the vessel. Applying that
rule to the present case the conclusion is inevitable that the
decree in the Circuit Court was erroneous.*
Decree io the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the cause
remanded with instructions to enter a decree
AFFIRMING THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

NOTE.

Soon after the preceding appeal was decided, two other
appeals, both from the same court with it, and with facts
which distinguished them little, if at all, from it in p,'inciple, were adjudged. They were
THE KALORAMA,
THE CUSTER.
1. The Grapeshot (9 Wallace, 129), affirmed a third and a fourth time as to

the second point adjudged by it; the point relating to admiralty liens.
The Lulu, supra, p. 192, also affirmed.

2. 'It is no objection to the assertion in the admiralty of a maritime lien
against a vessel for necessary repairs and supplies to her in a foreign
port, that the owner was there and gave directions in person for them;
the same having been made expressly on the credit of the vessel. The
Guy, 9 Wallace, 758, affirmed:

3. Nor that the libellant have brought a common law action for the value
of the repairs and supplies; the action not being yet determined.
THE case was exactly the same in both these appeals; which
were accordingly argued with one set of briefs, on one set of
depositions, contained in one record; the appeals having been,
Roberts on Admiralty, 210; The Fortitude, 3 Sumner, 268; The Nelson,
1 Haggard, 176.

Dec. 1869.]

THE, RALORAM A.
Statement of the case.

in fact, regarded at the bar as presenting throughout identically
the same points. The case was thus:
Morgan, of New York, owning the steamer Kalorama, belonging to that port, and Comstock, of the same place, owning the
Custer, belonging to the port of Georgetown, D. C., agreed
with one Pendergast, of Baltimore, Md., who was disposed to
purchase both steamers, that he should run them for two trips
between Baltimore and Charleston, and if, after this trial, he
liked the vessels, that he might purchase them. For the two
voyages Pendergast was to charge 10 per cent. commission on
the gross freights of the vessels, and to disburse. the steamers,
and to have all freights and disbursements insured for the
benefit of the owners; and in case the vessels were not satisfactory after a trial of two trips, Pendergast was to retain them in
the Southern trade on the same terms. Pendergast accordingly
tool the two vessels to make the trips, and the owners of them
respectively being at the time in Baltimore, he with their consent changed the master, and selected some of the crew. After
the two trial trips he elected not to make the purchase, and
subsequently refused to disburse the vessels on the credit of the
owners.
While in the port of Baltimore, the steamers needed repairs
and supplies to enable them to make their trips to Charleston.
The masters of neither vessel had funds which they could apply
to the purpose, nor could eitler procure any on the credit of
the respective owners. Pendergast therefore made repairs and
furnished supplies to both; all of the repairs being madet and
the supplies furnished at the request of the masters in the absence of the owners, or at the request of the owners themselves
when present in Baltimore, as they frequently were on the
arrivals of the steamers in that port; and as the court considered that it was, in every case, "quite clear" "with the express
understanding that the repairs were so made and furnished on
the credit of the steamer."* Part of the supplies and repairs were
made during the two trips made under the agreement, and part
during two afterwards, but part of the bills had been paid before any libel was filed, and payments were made afterwards
also. For the value of the repairs and supplies unpaid for, Pen* See opinion of the court, infra, p. 214.

206

THE KALORAMA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the material men.

dergast brought a common law suit against the owners in one
of the State courts of Baltimore, and while that suit was pending and undecided filed a libel fbr the same repairs and advances
on the admiralty side of the District Court at Baltimore.
The District Court decreed in favor of the libellants, the
amount allowed by it being for a less sum than had been disbursed by Pendergast after the first two trips had been made.
The Circuit Court, the Chief Justice holding it, reversed the decree, he stating that he thought that a literal construction of the
language used by this court in the eases of The Sultana*and The
Laurat made it his duty as a Circuit Judge to do this; but stating
it to be his opinion also that the Supreme Court did not, in those
cases, intend to establish the law which the language used in
the opinions in those cases seemed to announce, and that, considered in connection with the facts of the cases in which it was
used, the language was susceptible of a different interpretation,
and that this, the Supreme Court, in The Grapeshot and The
Guk, which had been argued and were then pending before it,
and which involved, as he considered, the same points, might
give to it an interpretation, as he himself as a judge of this
court might feel at liberty to do, which would necessitate the
reversal of his own decrees and the affirmance of those of the
District Court.
It was in these circumstances that the appeals came before
this court.
Messrs. J. R. Thomas and S. T. WUlis, for the appellants:
Since the recently announced opinions of this court in The
Grapeshot$ and in The Guy,§ there is nothing open in this case.
The former case, explaining the ill-considered language of the
opinions in The Sultana and The Laura, settles conclusively
that the repairs and supplies, supposing them to have been fur_
nished in the owner's absence,' are a lien; and the case of The
Guy, where obviously the owner was present, treats that feature as not qualifying the general principle.
We need say nothing about the writs issued out of the State
court of' Baltimore City; these proceedings in personam, are of
course no bar to the right to maintain libels in rem; it being
Thomas v. Osborn.
8 Wallace, 141.

t Pratt v. Reed.
9 Id. 758.

' Dec. 1869.]

THE ] ALORAMA.
Argument for the ship-owners.

perfect] y and long settled that creditors making advances to
ships in a foreign port are entitled to a threefold remedy,against the ship, the master, and the owners; that these are
cumulative, not alternative, and that they may all be pursued
simultaneously.*
The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and that
of the District Court affirmed, as of course.
Mr. William Shepard Bryan, contra :
1. The advances were made in pursuance of a contract entered
into with the owners personally, by which the appellants assumed entire charge of the steamers for a series of voyages,
and were to receive the specified compensation of 10 per cent.
commission on the gross freights. They became the agents of'
the owners; freighted the ships, collected the freights, and
paid their expenses. These agents appointed captain, officers,
and crew, ordered supplies, and stood in the place of owners
-generally. There is nothing in the nature of a maritime lien in
the case, but the case is the ordinary one of an agent against a
principal for a settlement of accounts, and the remedy is by assumpsit at common law.t Indeed, from such common law suit
having been brought, it is plain that the suit in admiralty is an
afterthought.
2. TIte claim maintained in the libels is for a tacit or implied
hypothecation. Now all the authorities show that no one but
the master can create these liens. The owner himself cannot
do it, except where he also sustains the character of shipmaster
or captain.t This seems to be assumed as settled law in The
Grapeshot. The Guy hardly decides that if the master be present
the lien can exist. Such a doctrine would be in the face of the
whole idea and nature of a maritime lien, such as is set up here.
That lien exists only in case of a foreign vessel in a foreign
port. It is an implied trust, founded on a necessity, and never
existing without a necessity, proved or presumed. A constant
argument against this class of..liens has been that the master or
material men could have communicatea1 with the owner. This
* Certain Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumner, 689, 91; The Paul Boggs, 1
Sprague, 869; Harmer v. Bell, 22 English Law and Equity, 70.
t Minturn v. Maynard, 17 Howard, 477.
$ The St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheaton, 409-416.

THE ]ALORAMA.

[Sup. Ct,

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

very argument is made in The Lulu; and that the port was not
a foreign port, but, on the contrary, one where the owner was,
or could readily come to.
If the lien can be created in a foreign port where the owner
is, and apppars, and acts, why shall it not exist, ceteris paribus,
in the domestic port? Yet it does not exist there. No doubt
an owner can either at home or abroad pledge 'his vessel, or he
can sell her, and whether he have credit or no credit, funds or
no funds. But an actual pledge is not here set up. The libel.
proceeds upon the idea of "a maritime lien," that sort of implied lien given to persons who, in cases of necessity, repair or
supply a foreign vessel in a foreign port at the master's instance;
an ancient, well-known, and well-defined lien.
But, independently of that question, everything was in this
case defined by a contract, and Pendergast was to make the
disbursements.
3. The suit in the State court of Baltimore is still pending.
It may be proceeded in to judgment; and if a decree is sustained on this libel, two judgments would be had for the same
claim. The pendency-of thecommon law suit is a bar within
the maxim, Nemo debet bis vexari pro eddem causd.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered an opinion of the court in
each of the cases, thus:
I. IN THE KALORAMA.

Advances for repairs and supplies to the steamer named in
the pleadings were made by the libell ants to an amount much
larger than the sum claimed in the libel, and allowed in the
decree of the District Court.
Payments made befbre the suit was instituted were deducted
from the claim as set forth in the libel, and it was, ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the District Court, that there was due to
the libellants at the date of the decree the sum of five thousand
one hundred and thirty-two dollars and thirty-six cents as a
lien upon the steamer, for which the stipulators for value were
liable.
Process was duly served in the District Court, and the owner
of the steamer appeared as claimant and filed an answer setting
up several defences, as follows: (1.) That the repairs and sup.

Dec. 1869.]

THE KALORAMA.
Opinion of the court.

plies were not necessary, as alleged in the libel. (2.) That they
were not made and furnished on the credit of the steamer. (3.)
That the steamer is not chargeable with the moneys advanced
for the repairs and supplies described in the libel, as they were
not made and furnished under a maritime contract. (4.) That
the libollants brought a common law suit for the same cause of
action before the libel was filed, and that the same is still pending and undecided.
None of these defences call in question the correctness of the
charges in the account, and no motion was made to refer the
cause to an assessor to report the amount of the expenditure,
nor was any exception taken to the finding of the District Court
in that behalf.
Appeal was taken by the owner and claimant of the steamer
from the decree of the District Court to the Circuit Court,
where the decree of the District Court was reversed.
Remarks respecting the correctness or incorrectness of the
accounts exhibited in the record may well be omitted, as itis
not pretended that, in view of the evidence, there, can be any
well-founded doubt that the advances were made as therein set
forth.
Distinct issues of law are presented in the pleadings, and the
District wid Circuit Courts differed as widely as the parties;
the former holding that the advances were a lien upon the.
steamer nuder the general rules of the maritime law. On the
other hand the Circuit Court, in deference to certain expressions
contained in the opinions of this court in the two cases of
Thomas v. O.,born* and Pratt v. Reed,t held that the advances
were the mere personal debt of the owner, that they did not
constitute a lien upon the steamer, and accordingly dismissed
the libel, which was a libel in rem against the steamer, setting
up a maritime lien. Whereupon the libellants appealed to this
court, and now seek to reverse that decree.
Before examining the special defence set up by th6 respondent, growing out of the contract of the libellants to employ the
steamer in two or more trips between Baltimore and Charleston,
it becomes necessary to define with some precision what is
meant by a maritime lien as affording a security for such ad19 Howard, 22.
VOL. x.

t 19 Id. 859.
14

THE KALORAMA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

vances, and under what circumstances it arises where repairs
are made or supplies are furnished to a vessel engaged in commerce and navigation.
In ccnsidering that question it will be sufficient to state that
the owner of the steamer throughout that period was a resident
of the city of New York,.and that the port of New York was
the home port of the steamer, as conceded by both parties.
Proof satisfictory to both courtswas introduced, showing that
the steamer nccd.ed the repairs and supplies when the advances
were made by the libeilants, and that they were made while the
steamer was lying in the port of Baltimore, where the libellants
resided, to enable the steamer to continue her' regular trips as
coitemplated by her owner; that her master had no unds
which he could apply to that purpose, nor could he procure any
on the credit of the owner, and that all of the advances were
made at the request of the master,.in the abs~nce of the owner,
or by the owner in personwhen he was present.
Contracts oil claims for service or damage purely
maritime,
and touching rights and duties appertaining to commerce and
navigation, are cognizable in the admiralty. Wherever a maritime lien arises in such a contract or claim, as in controversies
respecting repairs made or supplies furnished to a ship, or in
case of collision, the injured party may pursue his remedy,
whether it be for a breach of a maritime contract or for a marine tort, by a suit in rem against the vessel, or by a suit in
personam, at his election, against the owner, or against the
master and owner in cases where they are jointly liable for the
alleged default.*
By the civil law a lien upon the ship is given, without any
express contract, to those who repair the vessel or furnish her
with necessary stpplies, whether the vessel was at her home
port or abroad, when the repairs and supplies were made and
furnished.t
But the only lien which the common law recognizes in such
cases, independent of statutory regulations, is the possessory
lien, which arises out of, and is dependent upon, the possession
of the ship, as in cases where goods are delivered to an artisan
* The Belfast, 7 Wallace, 642.

t Dig. 14, 1, 1 ; 1 Valin, Commentary, 363; 8 Kent, 168; Williams &
Bruce, Admiralty Practice, 155.

Dec. 1869.]

THi KALORAMA.
Opinion of the court.

or tradesman to, be repaired or manufactured. Such a lien, as
understood at common law, did not attach unless the ship was
in the possession of the person who set up the claim, and the
extent of the privilege which it conferred was that he might
retain the ship in his possession until be was paid the money
due him for the repairs made and the -supplies furnished.. Until
paid he might refuse to surrender the ship, but if he relinquished
the possession of the ship his lien was displaced and extinguished.*
In jurisdictions where the rules of the common law prevail
the shipwright who works upon the ship, without taking possession of it, or if he parts with the possession before collecting
what is due for his services, is not deemed to be a privileged
creditor, nor is the merchant so considered who furnishes the
ship with necessary supplies unless the ship is placed within his
control.t
Important alterations have recently been made in those rules
of decision by acts of Parliament; but it is not necessary to
pursue that inquiry, as those rules were never regarded as rules
of decision in the admiralty courts of this country exercising
jurisdiction under the present Constitution and the laws of
Congress. On the contrary, some of the Federal courts, immediately after their organization under the Judiciary Act, decided
that repairs made and supplies furnished to a ship, if made and
furnished on the credit of the ship, were a lien upon the ship,
whether she was at the time in her home port or in a foreign
port. Other district judges were of the opinion that a maritime
lien did not arise if the repairs were made and the supplies were
furnished in the home port of the vessel, and some uncertainty
for a time prevailed upon the subject until the same was examined by this court, when the question was put at rest.T
Such a lien is a privilege in the thing, and is not dependent
upon possession or registry, nor is it displaced, as in a contract
of affreightment, when possession is relinquished, unless the
circumstances are such as to show that it was waived; nor is it
* Westerdell v. Dale, 7 Term, 312; Justin v. Ballam, 4 Salkeld, 84; Watkinson v. Bernadiston, 2 Peere Williams, 867; 3 Kent, 169; Maude & Pollock on Shipping, 64; The Zodiac, 1 Haggard's Admiralty, 320: Spartali v.
Beneeke, 10 C. B. 228.
1McLachlan on Shipping, 101; Doddington v. Hallet, 1 Vesey, 497.
$ The General Smith, 4 Wheaton, 448.

THE KALORAMA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lost by delay, unless for such a time as to show gross laches,

and to afford a reasonable presumption that it was abandoned.*
Where repairs had been made and supplies furnished to a
foreign ship, orlto a ship in a port of the State to which she does
not belong, the general maritime law, said Judge Story, following the civil law, gives the party a lien on the ship itself for
security, and he may well maintain a suit in rem in the admiralty to enforce his right.
Many oI the rules of' the general maritime law are doubtless
drawn from the civil law; but it is not quite correct to say that
the maritime law of the United States, as laid down in that case,
follows the civil law in respect to the lien conceded to the shipwright and tradesman who make repairs and furnish supplies to
ships engaged in commerce and navigation, as the civil law extends that privilege to such repairers and furnishers without any
such distinction between domestic and foreign vessels, as that
which is constantly maintained in the decisions of this court.t
Ports of States other than those where the vessel belongs are
for that purpose considered as foreign ports, and of course the
port where the steamer in this case was lying when the repairs
were made and the supplies were furnished must beregarded,
as between the parties in this controversy, as a foreign port.t
Controversies respecting such liens usually arise in cases
where the repairs or supplies were ordered by the master without any express directions from the owner, and in such cases
the repairer or furnisher must prove affirmatively that the ship
needed such repairs and supplies, as the authority of the master
in such a case is implied from the necessity for the repairs or
supplies, the want of funds for that purpose, the inability to
procure the same, and the absence of the owner.
Where it appears that the repairs and supplies were necessary
to preserve the ship in port, or to enable her to proceed on her
voyage, and that they were made and furnished in good faith,
the presumption is that the ship, as well as the master and
owner, is responsible to those who made the necessary advances,
* Paragon, Ware, 322; Young Mechanic, Id. 535, second edition, S. C.
2 Curtis, 404.

j 2 Parsons on Shipping, 812; The Marion, 1 Story, C-; The Chusan, 2
Id. 455; St. Jago de Cuba, 9 Wheaton, 409.
$ The Grapeshot, 9 Walli,ce, 129.

:Dec. 1869J__

Tims KALORAMA.
Opinion of the court.

and it is clear that the necessity for credit must be presumed
where it appears that the repairs and supplies were ordered by
the master, and that they were necessary for the ship, unless it
is shown that the master had funds or that the'owner had sufficient credit, and that the repairers, furnishers, and lenders of
the money knew those facts or one of them, or that such facts
and circumstances were known to them as were sufficient to
put them upon inquiry, and to show that if they had used due
diligence they would have ascertained that the master was not
authorized to obtain any such relief on the credit of the vessel.
Subject to those conditions, the master, in the absence of the
owner, is vested with the authority to order necessary repairs
and supplies, but it is no objection to his authority that he acted
on the occasion under the express instructions of the owner, nor
will the lien of those who made the repairs and furnished the
supplies be defeated by the fact that his authority emanated
from the owner instead of being implied by law.
When the owner is present the implied authority of the master for that purpose ceases, but if the owner gives directions to
that effect the master may still order necessary repairs and supplies, and if the ship is at the time in a foreign port, or in the
port of a State other than that of the State to which she belongs,
those who make the advances will have a maritime lien, if they
were made on the credit of the 'vessel.
Grant all these several propositions, still it is contended by
the respondent that no such lien arises in this case because, as
beinsists, the repairs were made and supplies furnished in pursuance of a contract with the owner, by which the appellants
assumed the entire charge of the steamer for a series of trips
and were to receive the specified compensation of ten per cent.
commission on the gross freights.
Doubtless some of the repairs and supplies were ordered by
the owner, and the respondent contends that the appellants, by
virtue of the arrangement, became the agents of the owner,
and that it was in that capacity that they freighted the steamer
and paid the expenses of the repairs and supplies, without any
other lien upon the steamer than that given by the common
law.
Strong doubts are entertained whether the written agreement, even if it had continued in force without alteration, and
if the advances in question had been made under it, would sup-

THE, KALORAMA,

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

port the theory set up by the respondent, but it is not absolutely necessary to decide that point, as it is quite clear that the
repairs were made and supplies furnished in every case either
y the order of the master or the owner, and with the express
understanding that they were so made and furnished on the
credit of the steamer.
They employed the steamer, in the first place, under the written agreement of the fourteenth of March, 1866, for two trips
between Baltimore and Charleston, and'it was agreed that they
were to receive ten per cent. commissions on the gross freights,
and that they should disburse the steamer, but they also stipulated to have the freights and disbursements insured for the
benefit of the owner, which shows to a demonstration that they
were not owners for the voyage. Suggestion is made that they
changed the master and selected some of the crew, but the evidence shows that all those acts were performed by the consent
of the owner and subject to his approval. Much the larger portion of the advances was paid before the libel was filed, and
additional payments have since been made.
Viewed, as the state of the case was, at the date of the decree
entered in the District Court, it is not doubted that an amount
much greater than the amount allowed in that decree had been
disbursed by the libellants for repairs and supplies to the steamer
Subsequent to the two trips made under the written agreement.
Suppose the libellants had no lien for the disbursements made
under that agreement, which is not admitted, still it is fully
proved that tile appellants, subsequent to the two trips, refused
to make further advances on the credit of the owner, and that
the owner expressly requested that the advances should be made
on the credit of the steamer.
Implied liens, it is said; can be created only by the master,
but. if it is meant by that proposition that the owner, or owners,
if more than one, cannot order repairs and supplies on the credit
of the vessel, the court cannot assent to the proposition, as the
practice is constantly otherwise.
Undoubtedly .the presence of the owner defeats the implied
authority of the master, but the presence of the owner would
not destroy such credit as is necessary to furnish food to the mariners and save the vessel and cargo from the perils of the seas.*
* The Guy, 9 Wallace, 758.

Dec. 1869.]

THE KALORAMA.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

More stringent rules apply as between one part-owner and
another, but the case is free from all difficulty if all the owners
are present. and the advances are made at their request, or by
their directions, and under an agreement, express or implied,
that the same are made on the credit of the vessel. Were it
not so mariners would refuse to ship for distant ports if the
owner was to remain with the ship, either as supercargo or passenger, unless it was known that'he had credit everywhere, as
in case the ship should become disabled *andneed repairs and
provisions the most reliable means of relief would be withdrawn,
and it is not difficult to imagine a case where lifo and property
might be lost because the owner was on board and without personal credit.
Decree of the Circuit Court REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree
AFFIRMING THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.
II.

IN THE CUSTER.

Jurisdiction, it is conceded, is vested in the district courts, by
the ninth section of the Judiciary Act, to enforce maritime lions
by a suit in. rem in all cases Where such liens arise, whether the
libel is for the breach of a maritime contract or to recover damages for a ijiarine tort.
Repairs were made and supplies furnished by the appellants
to the steamer named in the pleadings, and the owners of the
steamer refusing to pay for the same, the appellants filed their
libel in the District Court for the District of Maryland, and
caused the steamer to be arrested, claiming that the repairs and
the supplies were a lien upon. the steamer. Appearance was entered by the owners of the steamer, as c1aimants of the same,
and they filed an answer oetting up the same defences, as those
pleaded by the owner of the steamer in the suit just decided.
Testimony was taken by both parties in the two suits, as exhibited in the transcript of the other"suit, and the parties entered
into a stipulation that reference might be made in the trial of
this suit to the depositions printed in the other, and that both
should be heard at the sa'me time.
Two principal questions, it seems, were discussed in the District Court. (1.) Whether the evidence showed that the credit

[SLIP. ct.

THE ] ALORAMA.

Opinion of the court.

for the repairs and supplies was or was not given to the steamer,
under the rules of the maritime law as understood and administered in the Federal courts. (2.) Whether the repairs made
and the supplies furnished, in view of the circumstances, became
a lien upon the steamer. Both of those questions were answered
by the district judge in the affirmative, and the court entered a
decree for the libellants in the sum of six thousand fbur hundred and ninety-six dollars and sixty-three cents against the
owners of the steamer and the stipulators for value. Appeal
was taken by the respondents to the Circuit Court, where the
decree of the District Court was reversed, upon the ground that
the evidence in the transcript, if tested by the rules laid down
in Thomas v. Osborn,* and in the case of Pratt v. Beed,t does not
show the existence of any such lien.
Since that ruling was made the whole subject has been very
fully reconsidered by this court in the case of The Grapeshot,f
in which the opinion was given by the Chief Justice. Viewed
in the light of that decision, and of the opinion of the court in
the casof The Lulu,§ lately delivered, as the case must be, it
is cleat that further discussion of the same is unnecessary, as it
is conclusively settled that " where proof is made of necessity
for the repairs and supplies, or for finds raised to pay fbr the
same, and of credit given to the ship, a presumption will arise,
conclusive in the absence of evidence to the contrary, of necessity for credit," or, in other words, the necessity for credit must
be presumed where it appears that the repairs and supplies were
necessary, unless it is shown that the master had funds, or that
the owner had sufficient credit, and that the person or persons
making the advances knew those facts or one of them, or that
such facts and circumstances were known to them as were sufficient to put them upon inquiry, and to show that if they had
used due diligence in that behalf they would have ascertained
that the master was not authorized to obtain any such relief on
the credit of the steamer.
Suppose that defence cannot be sustained, still the respondents
insist that the steamer is not liable for the advances made by
the appellants, because the decree, as they contend, falls within
* 19 Howard, 22.
: 9 Wallace, 137.'

f 19 lb. 860.
. Supra, p. 192.

Dec.. 1869.]

THE KALORAMA.
Opinion of the court.

the rule laid down in the case of Minturn v. Maynard,* where it
was held that a libel in personam could not be maintained to recover a balance of account, consisting of moneys-paid, laid out,
and expended for the respondents in payment for repairs and
supplies to a steamer owned by the debtors, together with
charges for commissions and for advertising the steamer.
Examples might easily be given where a party may sue in the
admiralty or in the common law courts at his election, but it is
unnecessary to express any doubts as to the correctness of the
rule laid down in that caso, as it is clear that it does not control the case befbre the court even if the rule be admitted to be
correct without any qualifieation. t
Undoubtedly the appellants took charge of the steamer fbr
two trial trips betwe*n Baltimore and Charleston, and by the
terms of the written agreement entered into at that time they
were to receive for the services rendered in those trips a commission of ten per cent. on the gross freights of the steamer,
but they also stipulated to disburse the steamer, and to insure
the freights and disbursements for the benefit of the owners.
They took the steamer on trial for those two trips with a view
to purchase her in case they were "satisfied with the vessel,"
but they elected not to make the purchase, and subsequently
refused to disburse the steamer on the credit of the owners.
Uncontradictod as the evidence is upon this point, it does not
seem necessary to reproduce it, especially as it is all one way.
Objection is also made that the advances cannot be held to be
a lien upon the steamer, because some of the repairs and supplies were ordered by the owners in person, but the objection is
entitled to no weight, as the evidence shows that it was expressly agreed that the advances should be furnished on the
credit of the steamer.t
Payments have been made by the respondents since the decree was.entered in the District Court, but the court here is not
asked to revise the finding of the District Court as to the amount,
nor to deduct the payments since made, as those matters will be
adjusted under the stipulations executed between the parties.
*'17, Howard, 477.
t The Belfast, 7 Wallace, 644; Davis v. Child, Davies, 71; The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 141 ; Merritt a. Brewer, 14 Law Rep 452.
'1 The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 141; The Guy, 19 Id.
768; S. C. 1 Benedict,
112; The Lulu, supra, 192.

BRAUN V. SAUERWEIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Suggestion is also made that the lien was waived by the commencement of an action fbr the advances in the State court, but
the record shows that the action is still pending, and it is wellsettled law that the pendency of such an action is no bar to a
suit in a Federal court.*
Had the judgment been rendered it might be different, but it
is clear that the rule "transit in rem judicatam" cannot apply
during the pendency of the action.t
All sums collected in that proceeding have been duly credited
in this case, and it is fully proved that the whole amount included in the decree of the District Court was proper'ly cognizable in the admiralty.
Decree of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a decree
•AFFIRMING THE DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

BRAUN V. SAUERWEIN.
1, Although the running of a statute of limitations to the right of suing may
be suspended by causes not mentioned in the statute itself, as, for example, by the fact that the plaintiff, without default of his own, has been
disabled by a superior power from the capacity to sue; still, when by
the removal of the disabling power the right reverts, the question in a
ow
ease where the statute is afterwards set up to bar a suit, will be, "H
the
operation
?"
And
long did the suspension which it caused continue
of the statute will not be prevented for a longer time than that during
which the suspension was an enforced one.
Ex. gr. Where an act of Congress, which took effect August 1st, 1866, enacted that no suit to recover a tax once paid should be maintained,
until appeal had been duly made to the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue, and his decision had, unless such suit was brought within six
months from the time of such decision, &c.
teld-in a case where suit was brought February 18th, 1868, to recover a
tax that had been paid February 2d, 1864, and where appeal to the commissioner had been made August 20th, 1867, and decided by him JanuLoring et al v. Marsh et a]., 2 Clifford, 820; Wadleigh v. Veazie, 3
Sumner, 165; White v. Whitman, 1 Curtiss, 494; Lyman v. Brown, 2 Id.
659; The Paul Boggs, 1 Sprague, 369 ;. The Highlander, 1 Id. 510.
t Murray v. Lovejoy, 2 Clifford, 197; S. C. 3 Wallace, 16.

