Dec. 1870.]

THE DANIEL BALL.

557

Syllabus.

TIE DANIEL BALL.
1. The doctrine of the common law as.to the navigability of waters has no
application in this country. Here the ebb and flow of the tide do not
constitute the usual test, as in England, or any test at all of the navigability of waters.
2. The test by which to determine the navigability of our rivers is found in
their navigable capacity. Those rivers are public navigable rivers In
law which are navigable in fact.
3. Rivers itre navigable in fact when they are used, or are susceptible of
being used, in their ordinary condition, as highways for commerce, over
which trade and travel are or may be conducted in the customary modes
of trade and travel on water.
4. And they constitute navigable waters of the United States within the
meaning of the acts of Congress, in contradistinction from the navigable waters of the States, when they form in their ordinary condition
by themselves, or by uniting with other waters, a continucd highway
over which commerce is or may be carried on with other States or
foreign countries in the customary modes in which such commerce is
conducted by water.
5. Grand River, in Michigan, held to be a navigable water of the United
States, from its mouth in Lake Michigan to Grand Rapids, a distance
of forty miles, being a stream capable of bearing for that distance a
steamer of one hundred and twenty-three tofs burden, laden with ruerchandise and passengers, and forming by its junction with the lake a
continued highway for commerce, both with other States and with
foreign countries.
6. The limitation of the power of Congress over commerce to commerce
among the several States, with foreign nations, and with the Indian
tribes, necessarily, excludes from Federal control all that commerce
which is carried on entirely within the limits of a State, and does not
extend to or affect other States.
7. The steamer in this case being employed in'transporting goods on Grand
River, within the State of' Michigan, destined for other States, and
goods brought from without the limits of Michigan and destined to
places within that State, was engaged in commerce between the States,
and however limited that commerce, was, so far as it went, subject to
the legislation of Congress. She was employed as an instrument of
that commerce; for whenever a commodity has begun to move as an
articib of trade from one State to another, commerce in that commodity
between the States has commenced. The fact that several diffhrent and
independent agencies are employed in transporting the commodity,
some acting entirely in one State, and some acting through two or
more States, does not affect the character of the transaction. To the
extent to which each' agency acts in that transportation, it is subject to
the regulation of Congress.

THE DA;IEL BALL.

[Sup. Ut.

Statement of the case,
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Michigan, the case being thus:

The act of July 7th, 1838,* provides, in its second section,
that it shall not be lawful for the owner, master, or captain
of any vessel, propelled in whole or in part by steam, to
transport any merchandise or passengers upon " the bays,
lakes, rivers, or other navigable waters of the United States,"
after the Ist of October of that year, without having first
obtained from the proper officer a license under existing
laws; that for every violation of this enactment the owner
or owners of the vessel shall forfeit and pay to the United
States the sum of five hundred dollars; and that for this
sum the vessel engaged shall be liable, and may be seized
and proceeded against summarily by libel in the District
Court of the United States.
The act of August 30th, 1852,t which is amendatory of
the act of July 7th, 1838, provides for the inspection of vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam and 'carrying
passengers, and the delivery to the collector of the district
of a certificate of such inspection, before a license, register,
or enr'olment, under either of the acts, can be granted, and
declares that if any vessel of this kind is navigated with
passengers on board, without complying with the terms of
the act, the owners and the vessel shall be subject to the
penalties prescribed by the second section of the act of 1838.
In March, 1868, the Daniel Ball; a vessel propelled by
steam, of one hundred and twenty-three tons burden, was
engaged in navigating Grand River, in the State of Michigan, between the cities of Grand Rapids and Grand Haven,
and in the transportation of merchandise and passengers
between those places, without having been inspected or
licensed under the laws of the United States; and to recover
the penalty, provided for want of such inspection and license,
the United States filed a libel in the District Court for the
Western District of Michigan.
* 5 Stat. at Large, 304.

t10 Id. 61.

Dec. 1870.]

TiiE DANIEL BALL.
Statement of the case.

The libel, as amended, described Grand River as a navigable water of the United States; and, in additio.n to the
employment stated above, alleged that in such employment
the steamer transported merchandise, shipped on board of
her, destined for ports and places in States other than the
State of Michigan, and was thus engaged in commerce between the States.
The answer of the owners, who appeared in the case,
admitted substantially the employment of the steamer as
alleged, but set up as a defence that Grand River was not a
navigable water of the United States, and that the steamer
was engaged solely in domestic trade and commerce, and
was not engaged in trade or commerce between two or more
States, or in any trade by reason of which she was subject
to the navigation laws of the United States, or was required
to be inspected and licensed.
It was admitted, by stipulation of the parties, that the
steamer was employed in the navigation of Grand River between the cities of Grand Rapids and Grand Haven, and in
the transportation of merchandise and passengers between
those places; that she was not enrolled and licensed for the
coasting trade; that some of the goods that she shipped at
Grand Rapids and carried to Grand Haven were destined
and marked for -places in other States than Michigan, and
that some of the goods which she shipped at Grand Haven
came from other States and were destined for places within
that State.
It was also admitted that the steamer was so constructed
as to draw only two feet of water, and was incapable of navigating the waters of Lake Michigan; that she was a common carrier between the cities named, but did not run in
connection with or in continuation of any line of steamers
or vessels on the lake, or any line of railway in the State,
although there were various lines of steamers and other
vessels running from places in other States to Grand Haven
carrying merchandise, and a line of railway was running
from Detroit which touched at both of the cities named.
The District Court dismissed the libel. The Circuit Court

THE DANIEL BALL.

[Sup; Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

reversed this decision, and gave a decree for the penalty demanded.
From this decree the case was brought by appeal to this
court.

Mr. A. T. McReynolds, for the appellant:
1. The steamer Daniel Ball is not liable under the navi.gation laws, unless she was employed upon the navigable
waters of the United States, in carrying on commerce among
the States.
What, then, is meant by the term "navigable waters of
the United States," and the kindred phrases employed in
the navigation laws ? And does Grand River fial within the
class ?
It is clear that the term is not employed in a territorial
sense; merely or primarily to include all waters within the
territorial limits of the United States, to which the term
"navigable" is applied in American law. We have extended that term to include not simply the tide-waters, as
is understood by it in England, but also the great fresh-water
rivers and lakes of our country; and, in a still broader sense,
we apply it to every stream or body of water, susceptible of
being made, in its natural condition, a highway for commerce, even though that trade be nothing more than the
floating of lumber in rafts or logs.*
But if merely because a stream is a highway it becomes
a navigable water of the United. States, in a sense that
attaches to it and to the vessels trading upon it the regulating control of Congress, then every highway must be
regarded as a highwny of the United States, and the vehicles upon it must be subject to the same control. But this
will not be asserted on the part of the government.
The navigable rivers of the United States pass through
States, they form their boundary lines, they are not in any
one State, nor the exclusive property of any one, but are
common to all. To make waters navigable waters of the
Brown v. Chadbourne, 31 Maine, 9; Morgan v. King, 35 New York,
454; Moore v. Sanborne, 2 Michigan, 519.

-Dec. 1870.]l

THE

DANIEL BALL.

561

Argumeift for the appellant.

United States, some other incident must attach to them
besides the territorial and the capability for public use.
This term contrasts with domestic waters of the United
States, and implies, not simply that the waters are public
and within the Union, but that they have attached to them
some circumstance that brings them within the scope of the
sovereignty of the United States as defined by the Constitution.
Grand River, we maintain, is a domestic stream, and not
a navigable water of the United States. It is not brought
within the sphere of the sovereignty of the United States as
defined in the Constitution, unless it be by becoming a highway for the commerce which Congress can regulate. By
the Constitution, Congress regulates commerce with foreign
natilons, among the several States, &c. No such commerce
is carried on upon Grand River. Commerce means an exchange of commodities. This river is enitirelv within the
State of Michigan, and therefore an exchange of commodities between two States cannot be made upon it. It is
navigated by vessels, the commencement and termination
of whose voyage is within the State. It is not adapted to
navigation by lake-going vessels, which alone could carry
on commerce between the port at its mouth and any other
State. It cannot, therefore, be said to be a public water of
the United States, because forming part of a continuous
route for vessels engaged in interstate trade.
The framers of the Constitution supposed that the Sta.e
would be best able to establish all necessary regulations for
commerce carried on between citizens of the same State; and
all proper police regulations for domestic highways. They
have not authorized Congres s to interfere, and Congress has
never done so by attempting to subject this stream to regulations specially applicable to it. The case fhlls within that of
Veazie v. Moor.* There, as here, the stream was navigable;
but there, as here, its natural condition precluded its being
used for continuous voyages from one State to another.
14 Howard, 569.
VOL. X.

36

THE DANIEL BALL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2. If Grand River is a navigable water% or river of the
United States, the steamer was not engaged in carrying on
commerce among the States. So far as her passenger trade
was concerned, she was engaged in internal commerce; as
.she transported passengers solely between Grand Haven and
Grand Rapids, and the landings on the river between those
places, in the State of Michigan. It makes no difference
that packages were put on board the steamer plying on
Grand River, destined and marked fbr ports and places in
States other than the State of Michigan. It is admitted
that she did not take these packages out of the State, nor
did 9he run in connection with any vessels that did; she
simply took packages at one place in the State of Michigan,
to be delivered at another place in the same State, to some
party who appears by a direction on the packages to be expected to find some other conveyance for them to a distant
point. We do not know from this record that such conveyance was ever found. But found or not, the owners of this
vessel had nothing to do with it. Their operations were
confined entirely to the State, and did not, even by contract,
extend beyond its limits.
It seems clear, therefore, that this steamer was engaged
exclusively in domestic trade. If it was not, there is no such
thing as the domestic trade of a State, and Congress may
take jurisdiction of the whole commerce of the country.
Railroads entirely within a State, which transport grain or
fruit destined eventually to a distant market, may be subjected to police regulations from Congress.
Mr. Bristow, Solicitor-General, contra,for the United States.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
Two questions are presented in this case for our determination.
First: Whether the steamer was at the time designated
in the libel engaged-in transporting merchandise and passengers on a navigable water of the United States. within
the meaning of' the acts of Congress; and,

Dec. 1870.]

TiIR

DANIEL BALL.

Opinion of the court.

Second: Whether those acts are applicable to a steamer
engaged as a common carrier between places in the same
State, when a portion of the merchandise transported by
her is destined to places in Other States, or comes from
places without the State, she not running in connection with.
or in continuation of any line of steamers or other vessels,
or any railway line leading to or from another State.
Upon the first of these questions we entertain no doubt.
The doctrine of the common law as to the navigability of
waters has no application in this country. Here the ebb
and flow of the tide do not constitute the usual test, as in
England, or any test at all of the navigability of waters.
There no waters are navigable in fact, or at least to any considerable extent, which are not subject to the tide, and from
this circumstance tide water and navigable water there signify substantially the same thing. But in this country the
case is widely different. Some of our rivers are as navigable
for many hundreds of miles above as they are below the
limits of tide water, and some of them are navigable for
great distances by large vessels, which are not even affected
by the tide at any point during their entire length.* A
different test must, therefore, be applied to determine the
navigability of our rivers, and that is found in their navigable capacity. Those rivers must be regarded as public navigable rivers in law which are navigable in fact. And they
are navigable in fact when they are used, or are susceptible
of being used, in their ordinary condition, as highways for
commerce, over which trade and travel are or may be conducted in the customary modes of trade and travel on water.
And they constitute navigable waters of the United States
within the meaning of the acts of Congress, in contradistinction from the navigablewaters of the States, when they form
intheir ordinary condition by themselves, or by uniting with
other waters, a continued highway over which commerce is
or may be carried on NWith other States or foreign countries
in the customary modes in which such commerce is conducted by water.
The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 457; Hine v. Trevor, 4 Wallace, 555

THE DANIEL BALL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

If we apply thi8 test to Grand River, the conclusion follows that it must be regarded as a navigable water of thq
United States. From the conceded facts in the case thA
stream is capable of bearing a steamer of one hundred qnd
twenty-three tons burden, laden with merchandise and passengers, as far as Grand Rapids, a distance of forty miles
from its mouth in Lake Michigan. And by its junction with
the lake it forms a continued highway for commerce, both
With other States and with foreign countries, and is, thus
brought under the direct control of Congress in the exercise
of its commercial power.
That power authorizes all appropriate legislation for the
protection or advancement of either interstate or foreign
commerce, and fbr that purpose such legislation as will
insure the convenient and safe navigation of all the navigable waters of the United States, whether that legislation
consists in requiring the removal of obstructions to their
use, in prescribing the form and size of the vessals employed
upon them, or in subjecting the vessels to inspection and
license, in order to insure their proper construction and
equipment. "The power to regulate commerce," this court
said in Gilman v. Philadelphia,* "comprehends the control
for that purpose, and to the extent necessary, Of all navigable waters of the United States which are accessible from a
State other than those in which they lie. For this purpose
they are the public property' of the nation, and subject to all
the requisite legislation of Congress."
But it is contended that the steamer Daniel Ball was only
engaged in the internal commerce of the State of Michigan,
and was not, therefore, required to-be inspected or licensed,
even if it be coiceded that Granid River is a navigable water
of the United States; and this brings us to the consideration
of the second question presented.
There is undoubtedly an internal commerce which is subject to the control of the States. The power delegated to
Congress is limited to commerce "among the several States,"
3 Wallace, 724.

Dec. 1870.]

THE DANIEL BALL.
Opinion of the court.

with foreign nations, and with the Indian tribes. This limitation necessarily excludes from Federal control all commerce not thus designated, and of course that commerce
which is carried on entirely within the limits of a State,
and does not extend to or affect other States.* Ini this
case it is admitted that the steamer was eiogaged in shipping and transporting down Grand River, goods destined
and marked for other States than Michigan, and in receiving
and transporting up the' river goods brought within the
State from without its limits; but inasmuch as her agency
in the transportation was entirely within the limits of the
State, and she did nt lin in connection with, or in continuation of, any line of vessels or railway leading to other States,
it is contended that she was engaged entirely in domestic
commerce. But this conclusion does not follow. So far as
she was employed in transporting goods destined for other
States, or goods brought from without the limits of Michigan and destined to places within that State, she was engaged
in commerce between the States and however limited that
commerce may have been, she was, so far as it went, subj.ect
to the legislation of Congress. She was employed as an instrument of that commerce; for whenever a commodity has
begun to move as an article of trade from one State to
anothei., comnmerce in that commodity between the States
has commenced. The fact that several different and independent agencies are employed in transporting the commodity, some acting entirely in one State, and some acting
through two or more States, does in no respect affbet the
character of the transaction. To the extent in which each
agency acts in that transportation, it is subject to the regulation of Congress.
It is said that if the position here asserted be sustained,
there is no such thing as the domestic .trade'of a State; that
Con gress may take the entire control of the commerce of
the country, and extend its regulations to the railroads
within a State on which grain or fruit is transported to a
distant market.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 194, 195.

566

LIVERPOOL INS. Co. v. MASSACHUSETTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

We answer that the present case relates to transportation
on the navigable waters of the United States, and we are
not called upon to express an opinion upon the power of
Congress over interstate commerce whenyarried on by land
transportation. And we answer further, thlat we are unable
to draw any clear and distinct line betveen the authority
of Congress to regulate an agency employed in commerce
between the States, when that agency extends through two
or more States, and when it is confined in its action entirely
within the limits of a single State. If its authority does not
extend to an agency in such commerce, when that agency is
confined within the limits of a State, its entire authority
over interstate commerce may be defeated. Several agepcies combining, each taking up the commodity transpoi4ed
at the boundary line at one end of a State, and leaving it at
the boundary line at the other end, the Federal jurisdiction
would be entirely ousted, and the constitutional provision
would become a dead letter.
We perceive no error in the record, and the decree of the
AFFIRMED.
Circuit Court must be

LIVERPOOL

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

MASSACHUSETTS.

1. A corporation created by one State can only exercise its corporate franchises in another State by tie comity of the latter.

2. A joint stock association, which by its deed of settlement in England
and certain acts of Parliament is endowed with the faculties and powers
mentioned below, is a corporat -in, and will be so held in this country,
notwithstanding the acts of Parliament ir accordance with a local policy

declare that it shall not be so held. These faculties and powers are:
1. A distinctive artificial name by which it can make contracts.
2.. A statutory authority to sue and be sued in the name of its officers
as representing the association.
8. A statutory recognition of the association as an entity distinct
from its members, by allowing them to sue it and be sued by it.
4. A provision for its perpetuity by transfers of its shhres, so as to
secure succession of membership.:
8. In this country the individual responsibility of the shareholder for the
debts of the association, is not incompatible with the corporate idea.

