Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.

367

Syllabus.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.
1. A deed by which a party conveys " all his property and estate, whatsoever and wheresoever, of every kind and description," carries patent
rights and extensions, if the party own any.
2. A decree in equity in one of the loyal States against a party who, having
been engiged in the rebellion, was at the time a prisoner of war of, the
United States, outside of the State, and against whom there was no
service of process, or any step taken to bring him before the court, is
void; and any sale under it is also void.
3. Where there is doubt as to the. proper meaning of an instrument, the
construction which the parties to it have themselves put upon it, is
entitled to great consideration ; but where its meaning is clear, an
erroneous construction of it by them will not control its effect.
4. A deed by which a patentee of an invention conveys all th6 right, title,
and interest which he has in the " said inventioni" as secured to him
by letters patent, and also all '' right, title, and interest, which may be
secured to him from time to time," the same to be held by the assignee
for his own use and for that of his legal representatives, " to the full
end of the term for which said letters patent are oR may be granted,"
carries the entire invention and all alterations and improvements, and
all patents whensoever issued and extensions alike, to the extent of the
territory specified.
5. A grant by a patentee of an extension of a patent, before any extension
has issued, will carry, if the terms of the grant be proper ones, the legal
as well as the equitable interest in the patent.
6. Where the owner of a patent granted the portion of his interest in it
to another person in consideration of certain payments to be made by
such per-on to third parties, and certain promises and agreements then
made by him ; and such person never made any of the payments which
he was thus required to make, and by common consent of the grantor
and grantee, the contract never went into operation in any way, because
the grantee was unable to comply with any of his engagements, so that
the grantor was compelled to pay, and did pay, the money which the
grantee had agreed to pay; and the grantee during his lifetime never
claimed any interest in the contract, but, on the contrary, always recognized the grantor's exclusive right, and acted as his agent in the patent,
under a power of attorney, paying him a part of the profits for the
privilege:
Held, after the grantee's death, that the agreement did not prevent the
grantor's bringing suit for the infringement of the patent without
naming the grantee.
ERROR

thus:

to the Circuit Court for Maryland, the case being

1868

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. TRIMBLE,

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The Patent Act of 1836* thus enacts:
"Section 11. That every patent shall be assignable in law,
either as to the whole interest or any undivided part thereof,
by any instrument in writing; which assignment, and also every
grant and conveyance of the exclusive right under any patent
to make and use, and to grant to others to make and use the
thing patented within and throughout any specified part or portion of the United States, shall be recorded, &c.
" Section 14. Damages may be recovered by action on the
case, in any court of competent jurisdiction, to be brought in the
name of the person or persons interested, whether as patentees,
assignees, or grantees of the exclusive right within and throughout a specified part of the United States."
Section 18 of the act authorizes, under certain circumstances, an extension of the patent beyond the term of its
limitation, and thus continues:
"And thereupon the said patent shall have the same effect in
law as though it had been originally granted for a term of
twenty-one years. And the benefit of such renewal shall extend to assignees and grantees of the right to use the thing
patented to the extent of their respective interest therein."
These statutory provisions being in force, a certain Howe
obtained, on the 3d of August, 1840, a patent for an improvement in the manner of constructing the truss frame of
bridges. HIe had previously, on the 10th of July, of the
same year, obtained a patent on the same account, which
was merged practically in that of August 3d. On the 9th
of July, 1844, lie assigned to one Isaac R. Trimble all his
right in these two patents for certain States, including Maryland. This assignment (duly recorded) conveyed Howe's
rights in these words:
"All the right, title, and interest which I have in said invention, as secured to me by said letters patent; and also all right,
title,.and interest which may be secured to me for alterationsand
* 5 Stat. at Large, 121, 123.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.
Statement of the case.

improvements in the same from time to time;

. . .

the same to be

held and enjoyed by the said I. R. Trimble, &e., to the full end
of the term for which said letters patent are or may be granted,
as fully and entirely as the same would have been held and enjoyed by me had this assignment and sale not have been made."
Afterwards, on the 28th of August, 1846, aiother patent
was granted to Howe, for an improvement in the manner of
constructing these truss frames; and on the 18th of September, 1854, Howe having died meanwhile, his administrator, one Joseph Stone, in order to "secure to I. R. Trimble more perfectly his legal rights, and tend to a more
speedy adjustment of any disputed claim," assigned to Trimble the same interest in the patent of 1846 which he held in
theothers. The assignment recited that the alterations and
improvements secured by the patent of 1846 already belong
to Trim ble, "who has used and paid for the same since the
year 1846, as understood at the time."
On the application of the same administrator, Stone, the
patent of 1846 was extended for seven years from the 28th
of August, 1860.
On the 30th of May, 1861, Trimble executed a deed, duly
recorded, of "all his property and estate, whatsoever and
wheresoever, of every kind and description," to Anne Trimble (his wife) and Georgian a Presstman, in trust, &c.
The Philadelphia, Wilifiington, and Baltimore Railroad
Company during the years 1864, 1865, and 1866, that is to
say, during the term of the extension, having built certain
bridges in Maryland, adopting Howe's improvement, Trimble, his wife, and Presstman brought suit for damages.
Plea not guilty, &c. There was no question as to the validity of the patent, the only point being whether the assignment of July 9th, 1844, from Howe to Trimble passed
Howe's interest in the extension of 1846.
The plaintiffs having put the case, as already stated, before the jury, the defendant gave in evidence an assignment
dated April lst, 1861, from Howe's administrator, Joseph
Stone, to a certain Daniel Stone, of Philadelphia, of all the
VOL. X.

24

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

administrator's interest in the patent of 1846, and its extension, for the State above mentioned. This was followed by
proof of an agreement between Trimble and Daniel Stone,
dated 30th September, 1846. This agreement, which was
not recorded until July 27th, 1864, and after Stone's death,
which event took place in December, 1863, recited the agreement between Trimble and Howe and the payments thereby
stipulated to be made by Trimble. Stone covelanted to
pay one-half of the instalments still unpaid as they should
mature.
This clause follows:
"And the said Isaac R. Trimble, in consideration of the said
payments,.promises, and agreementson the part of the said Daniel
Stone as aforesaid, for and on the part of himself, the said Isaac
R. Trimble, and his heirs, executors, and administrators, covenants and agrees, and by these presents doth covenant and
agree, to sell and transfer, and doth hereby sell and transfer unto
the said Daniel Stone, his heirs, executors, and administrators,
the one equal moiety or half-part of all the right, title, claim, and
interest of him, the said Isaac R. Trimble, of, in, and to the
patent-right aforesaid, which he purchased as aforesaid of the
said William Howe."
A copartnership between the parties in the business of
buildinog bridges under Howe's patents was then made by
the agreement, and it was stipulated that if either party
should at any time desire a dissolution, Trimble should
name a sum which he would be willing to give or take for
a moiety of the rights which he acquired from Iowe, including the payments to Ilowe, and that Stone should thereupon decide whether he would buy or sell; and, further,
that the contract might be dissolved at the expiration of six
months after notice from either party.
The defendants then gave in evidence a transcript of the
record in an equity proceeding in the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, instituted March 10th, 1864, by this same
Joseph Stone, administrator of Daniel Stone, against Trimble, as "formerly of said city of Philadelphia." It alleged

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.

871

Statement of the case.

a partnership between Daniel Stone and Trimble, and that
the same was carried on in Philadelphia, and it produced
what it charged was a copy of the articles of partnership of
September 30th, 1846. It then charged that Trimble, "on
or about the 29th day of April, 1861, absconded to parts
unknown, abandoning the said copartnership business, and
took up arms against the government of the United States,
became a major-general in the so-called Confederate States
army, was afterwards captured, and is now held at Johnston's Island, on Lake Erie, as a prisoner of war by the
United States." It further charged that since April 29th,
1861, Trimble had taken no part in the management of the
partnership business; that Daniel Stone died on November
26th, 1863, and that the complainant had administered on
his' estate; that no settlement of the business had ever been
had; that a large amount was due from Trimble to Daniel
Stone's estate; that the assets of the firm consisted in part
of an interest in Howe's patents, which had been extendedfor
seven years from August 28th, 1860; that great loss would
result from lapse of time and non user, &c., unless the rights
of the copartnership should be disposed of, &c. The bill
then required the defendant to answer as to whether "the
property of the partnership does not principally consist of a
partial right under letters patent originally granted to Howe,
on the 28th of August, 1846, and afterwards extendedfor seven
years fr-om the 28th of Augut, 1860 ;" and it prayed an account, injunction, receiver, &c., and a subpoena against
Trimble. It was sworn to by Joseph Stone. No subpona
was ever issued, but on the production of two affidavits, sustaining the allegations of the bill as to Trimble's having
gone into the Confederate army, and being then in prison
at Johnson's Island, the court, March 26th, 1864, sixteen
days after the filing of the bill, appointed one John E. Shaw,
receiver, and ordered him to sell the partnership property.
lIe filed an inventory, in which the Howe patent, as extended, was set down as the only assets of the partnership,
and a sale of itifor $300, to one Burton, was reported. He
then filed a petition for the confirmation of the sale of the

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

patent and extension to Burton, and on June 11th, 1864,
the sale was absolutely confirmed, and the receiver directed
to execute the assignment to Burton of the Howe patent
"to the full end of the time for which said letters patent
have been extended."
[The articles of copartnership between Trimble and Stone,
filed by the complainant, in the equity suit in Pennsylvania,
as an exhibit with his bill, though in all other respects ideintical with the instrument filed in the Patent Office, and produced by the defendants on the trial, did not contain the
words of actual sale, which were contained in the latter instrument, to wit: the words, " and doth hereby sell and transfer," but confined themselves to an agreement to sell.]
Next followed an assignment dated June 11th, 1864, from
this Shaw, receiver, to Burton, of all the interest of Daniel
Stone and Trimble, as partners in the Howe patents.
Next was produced an assignment from Joseph Stone,
administrator of Daniel Stone, to the same Burton, dated
March 6th, 1865, in which he transfers to the assignee all
the interest of the deceased in the Howe patents and extension.
The plaintiffs, by way of rebutting evidence, then proved
by Trimble that Daniel Stone never made any of the payments stipulated to be paid by him in the agreement offered
in evidence by the defendant; that by common consent, the
agreement never went into operation in any way, because
Stone was unable to comply with any of his engagements
made in said agreement, and left their witness to pay, and
the witness was comipelled to pay, the instalments still due
on the original purchase, which the witness himself did; that
Stone never claimed any right or interest whatever during
his life under that agreement, nor did he ever pretend to act
under it; but, on the contrary, always recognized the witness's exclusive right to the interest referred to in said agreement, and acted as the witness's agent under a power of
attorney, in constructing bridges thereunder, paying the
witness a part of the profits as a compensation for the privi-

Dee.

1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.

873

Statement of the case.

leges. The witness further proved that he never was a resident or citizen, nor were any of the plaintiffh, at any tine,
residents or citizens of Pennsylvania.
The evidence being closed, the plaintiffs presented their
prayer for instructions, as follows:
" That if the jury believe, that the agreement offered in evidence by the defendant, executed by and between Trimble and
Daniel Stone, and bearing date the 30th September, 1846, never
went into effect and operation between the parties thereto, because of the inability and failure of the said Stone to comply
with the terms thereof on his part, and that the partnership
therein contemplated was, for the same reason, abandoned by
the common consent of the said parties; and the said agreement
was held and treated by and between them, in all particulars,
as inoperative and of no effect; and further believe that the
said -Trimble, by reason of the failure of said Stone to pay the
moneys due on the purchase of the original patent, as in said
agreement stipulated, was compelled to pay, and did pay, the
same altogether himself; and that said Stone always, after the
execution of the said agreement, and notwithstanding the same,
recognized the said Trimble as the sole owner of the patent
right therein referred to, and acted only as his agent and attorney
in regard thereto, and in recognition of his sole right therein,
and not otherwise, and never caused or procured or intended
the said agreement to be recorded, but died in 1862 or 1863, before the recording of the same, and without setting up the same
or pretending to have acquired any rights thereunder, then the
said agreement is not to be regarded by the jury as passing any
right or title to the said Stone, which the defendant is entitled
to set up in connection with any other evidence in the cause, as
a bar to the right of the plaintiff8 to recover; provided the jury
find the execution and delivery to the plaintiffs, Ann Trimble
and Georgiana Presstman, of the deed of the 13th of Mqy, 1861,
produced by the plaintiffs, and that the same was recorded, &c."
This instruction the court gave.
The defendant presented eight prayers, of which the court
granted the first and seventh, and refused the rest.
The second was to the effect, that Trimble did not acquire

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

TRIMBLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument.for the plaintiff in error.

by Howe's assignment, or that of his administrator, a legal
title to the extension of the patent, and that the deed of trust
executed by Trimble passed no legal title to the grantees.
The third maintained that the articles of copartnership
between Trimble and Stone passed Trimble's title to a
moiety of his interest in the patents, and that in the absence
of any proof of a reconveyance ill writing Trimble had no
exclusive legal right in the extended term of the patent.
The fourth affirmed the validity of the receiver's deed to
Burton, and that the proceedings in Pennsylvania, and that
deed divested Trimble's entire interest.
The fifth was a corollary to the fburth, and assumed that
as the deed of trust was not recorded in the Patent Office
when theproceedings in Pennsylvania took place, it cannot
operate to Burton's prejudice if neither he, the complainant,
nor the receiver had any knowledge of it.
The sixth asserted that the assignment by Howe's administrator to Daniel Stone, passed the legal right under the
extension to said Stone.
The seventh, touching limitations, was granted.
The eighth asked an instruction that there was no evidence in the case from which the jury could find that the
plaintiffs had an exclusive legal title to the use of the Howe
improvement at the time of the infringement.
Under these instructions, excepted to by the defendant,
the jury found a verdict of $12,500 for the plaintiff, and after
judgment the case was brought here on error.
Messrs. W. Schley and T. Donaldson,for the plaintiff in error:
1. The alleged infringements occurred during the extended
term of the patent, but the plaintifl below did not adduce
any evidence of title in that term. There is nothing in the
agreement, nor in the assignment, relied on by them, which
would justify the conclusion, that the parties had il contemplation the possible extension of the patents, or any of them.
Wilson v. Rousseau,* seems in point. There a covenant by
4 Howard, 682.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD C01APANY v. TRIMBLE.

875

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the patentee, prior to the Patent Act of 1836, whose 18th
section authorized extensions, that the covenantee should
have the benefit of any improvement in the machinery or
alterationor renewal of the patent, did not include an extension by an administrator under that act; and other cases
favor that view.* The defendant's second and eighth prayers
ought to have been granted.
2. Even if there had been, in the agreement or assignment, or in both, a covenant, providing for an interest in
any extension, it would, as respects: third parties, have vested
but al equitable right. By estoppel, the subsequently accruing right feeding the estoppel-it might, in a suit inter
partes, even at law, have clothed the covenantee with a legal
right. But, however this might be in such case, it could
not create a legal right, to be enforced by the covenantee,
or his assigns, in an action at law, against a stranger to the
covenant.
8. But even if Trimble had an inchoate right, in the possible extension of the patent of 1846, his agreement with
Daniel Stone passed to Daniel Stone one-half of such'right;
and, of course, the plaintiffs (assuming the agreement to be
operative), would not have such exclusive title, as would
enable them to maintuin this suit.
4. The evidence of Trimble, as a witness, is not competent legal evidence to destroy the agreement; or to i'evest
in him the moiety, which he had transferred to Stone. An
assignment of a legal interest in a patent, or of an interest
therein, can, under the 11th section of the Patent Act of
1836, only be made by writing. Even if the facts, stated by
the witness, would avail in equity, as a ground for a decree
setting aside the deed, still, in a suit at law, they cannot
annul the agreement.t
Wilson v. Simpson, 9 Id. 109; Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 Id. 539;
Hartsborn v.Day, 19 Id. 220; Chaffee v.Boston Belting Company, 22 Id.
223; Day v. Union Rubber Company, 3 Blatchford, 491, 504.
t Philadelphia and Trenton Railroad, Company v. Stimpson, 14 Peters,
461 ; Hartshorn v. Day, 19 Howard, 220; Troy Iron and Nail Factory v.
Corning, 1 Blatchford, 472.

RAILROAD COMPANi V. TRIMBLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

5. Without entering into any discussion of the merits of
the suit in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, it was shown
that it 'Was still pending; and that the court, by a receiver,
had taken possession of the interest of Trimble in the patent
right, long before the commencement of this suit. Coming
into question, collaterally, in this suit, comity requires that
the action of that court should not be declared a nullity in
law. ' It was a proceeding in a court of equity; and partnership matters are properly cognizable in equity. It was a
case in a matter within its jurisdiction. The appointment
of a receiver is an ordinary exercise of power, for the purpose of preserving property, pending litigation; and it is
the province of every court having possession of a cause, to
decide for itself, whether, upon the state of case before it, it
is expected to exercise the power. The avernients of the
bill presented a strong case for prompt interference.
Messrs. B. G. Prestlman and S. T. Wallis, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The controversy between the parties in this court is confined to questions relating to the title of the defendants in
error under the extended patent of August 23, 1860, alleged
to have been infringed by the plaintiffs in error. The instruction given, and those refused by the court below, which are
brought under review, must be examined in the light of the
facts which the bill of exceptions discloses. Before proceeding to consider the main questions in the case, we deem it
proper to dispose of others arising upon the record in regard
to which we have found no difficulty and entertain no doubt.
The deed of Isaac R. Trimble of the 30th of May, 1861,
conveyed all his rights under, the patent, whatever they
may have been, to the grantees in that instrument. If his
title was sufficient, theirs is so. This was not controverted
by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, and needs no further
remark.
The assignment of the 11th of June, 1864, to Aaron E.
Bfirton, made by John E. Shaw, as receiver appointed in the

Dee. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.

877

Opinion of the court.

case in equity in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, wherein
Joseph Stone, administrator of Daniel Stone, was complainant, and Isaac R. Trimble defendant, was a nullity, and as
such may be laid out of view. Looking into the record we
find no evidence of the issuing of any process against Trimble,
or that he was notified of the pendency of the suit by publication or otherwise. It does not appear that there was any
step whatever taken to bring him before the court. The
entire proceeding, as disclosed, was coram non judice and
void. It may be added that Trimble's deed to his co-plaintiffs was prior in date to the filing of the bill, and that the
title of the grantees in that deed could not be affected by a
proceeding to which they were not parties.
If Trimble at the date of that deed held the title under
the extended patent, which the defendants in error insist he
had, the deed of confirmation to him from Howe's administrator, of the 18th of September, 1854, touching the patent
of 1846, extended by the one in question, was inoperative
and useless. It was referred to in the argument, as showing
the construction put by the parties upon the deed of Howe
to Trimble of the 9th of July, 1844. Where there is doubt
as to the proper construction of an instrument, this feature
of the case is entitled to great consideration. But where its
meaning is clear in the eye of the law, the error of the parties cannot control its effict. In this view of the subject,
conceding that Trimble took this conveyance, not out of
abundant caution and to solve in his favor a doubt which
might otherwise possibly arise against him, but because he
deemed it necessary to give him a title which he did not
already possess, his legal rights in this controversy are just
what they would have been if that instrument had not been
executed.
If the construction given to the deed of Howe by the
counsel for the defendants in error be correct, and no part
of the title vested in Trimble by that deed passed to Daniel
Stone by the agreement of the 30th of September, 1846,
between him and Trimble, as the counsel for the defendants
in error insist, there was nothing for the deed of Howe's

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

administrator to Stone of the 1st of April, 1861, nor for the
deed of Stone's admiuistrator of March 6, 186,5, to Burton,
to operate upon, and both of them were also without effect
upon the rights of the parties in this litigation.
This brings us to the examination of the deed of Howe to
Trimble, and of the agreement between Trimble and Stone.
They are the hinges upon which the controversy turns. The
stress of the argument on both sides was properly confined
to these subjects in their several aspects of fact and of law.
The deed from Howe recites that he had obtained from the
United States two patent9 for new and useful improvements
in the construction of truss bridges and other structures, one
dated on the 10th of July, the other on the 3d of August,
in the year 1840. The instrument is a deed poll. After setting out the consideration, it proceeds as follows: "I have
assigned, sold, and set over,and do hereby assign, sell, and set
over, all the right, title, and interest which I have in said invention, as secured to me by said letters-patent, and also all right,
title, and interest which may be secured to me for alterations
and improvements on the samefrom time to time, for, to, and
in the following states, viz.," &c. . . . "the same to be held
and enjoyed by the said I. R. Trimble for his own use and
behoof, and for the use and behoof of his legal representatives to the full end of the term for which said letters-patent
are or may be granted, as fully and entirely as the same would
have been held and enjoyed by me had this assignment and
sale not have been made." A careful analysis of these provisions eliminates the following results: Howe assigns to
Trimble all his title and interest in the inventions secured
to him by the two patents mentioned, in respect to the territory specified, and also all the right and title which should
be secured to him for alterations and improvements in the
inventions, from time to time thereafter, for the same territory, to be held and enjoyed by Trimble to the full end of
the terms for which patents had been theretofore, or might
be thereafter, granted, in all respects as they would have
been held and enjoyed by the assignor if the assignment had
not beer, made.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. TRIMBLE.
Opinion of the court.

The language employed is very broad. It includes alike
the patents which had been issued and all which might be
issued thereafter. No discrimination is made between those
for the original inventions and those for alterations and
improvements, nor between those which were first issues
and those which were reissues or renewals and extensions.
The entire inventions and all alterations and improvements,
and all patents relating thereto, whensoever issued, to the
extent of the territory specified, are within the scope of the
terns employed. No other construction will satisfy them.
Upon the fullest consideration we have no doubt such was
the meaning and intent of the parties.
The effect of such a contract, we think, has been settled
by this court in Gayler v. Wilder and olhcrs.* Fitzgerald,
the inventor, before the patent was issued, assigned his
entire right to Enos Wilder. The assignment contained a
request that the patent should be issued to the assignee, and
was duly recorded in the Patent Office. This brought the
case within the terms of the 6th section of the act of 1836.
Fitzgerald made no assignment after the patent was issued
to him. Enos Wilder, his assignee, assigned to Benjamin
Wilder, who was the plaintiff in the action. The defendants
insisted that Enos Wilder had not the legal, but only an
equitable title. Upon the question whether an assignment
subsequent to the issuing of the patent was necessary to
pass the former to the assignee, this court said: "We do
not think the act of Congress requires it, but that when the
patent issued to Fitzgerald, the legal right to the monopoly
and the property it created was, by the operation of the
assignmeht then on record, vested in Wilder." The argument which controlled the judgment of the court may be
thus stated: Fitzgerald had an inchoate right at the time
of .the assignment, the invention being then complete and
the specification prepared. It appeared, by the language of
the assignment, that it was intended to operate upon the
perfect legal title, which he then had a lawful right to ob* 10 Howard, 477.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

TRIMBLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tain, as well as upon the inchoate right which lie then possessed. There was no sound reason for defeating the intention of the parties by restricting the assignment to the latter
interest, and compelling the parties to execute another transfer, unless the act of Congress required it, which, in the
opinion of the court, it did not. The act of 1836 declares
that every patent shall be assignable in law. The thing to
be assigned is not the mere parchment on which the grant
is written, but the monopoly which the grant confers-the
right of property which it creates. " And when the party
has acquired an inchoate right to it, and the power to make
that right perfect and absolute at his pleasure, the assignment of his whole interest, whether executed before or after
the patent issued, is equally within the provisions of the act
of Congress." We concur in these views. The rule laid
down is the law of this tribunal upon the subject. There
the patent was an original one, here it is an extension. The
question before us arises under the 11th and 18th sections
of the act of 1836. But the arguments which controlled
the decision in that case apply in this with equal force. The
same considerations are involved in both. There is no substantial ground of distinction. The application of the same
principle to the assignment of an extended patent, made
before the extension, is an inevitable corollary from the reasoning and ruling of the court. Without, in effect, overruling that adjudication, we cannot hold that Trimble had
not a legal title under the extended as well as under the
original patent. In ourjudgniiit lie had such a title.
In this connection our attention has been called by the
counsel for the plaintiffs in error to Wilson v. Rousseau,* and
several other-cases. None of them turned upon the question
we have been considering, and neither of them contains anythingiii conflict with the proposition established by Gayler
v. Wilder.
It rematins to consider the contract between Trimble and
Daniel Stone.
4 Howard, 682.

Dec. 1870.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.
Opinion of the court.

It recites the agreement between Trimble and Howe, and
the payments thereby stipulated to be made by Trimble.
Stone covenants to pay one-half of the instalments still unpaid as they should mature.
This clause follows:
"And the said Isaac R. Trimble, in consideration of the
said payments, promises, and agreements on the part of the said
Daniel Stone as aforesaid, for and on the part of himself,
the said Isaac R. Trimble, and his heirs, executors, and administrators, covenants and agrees, and by these presents
doth covenant and agree, to sell and transfer, and do/h here'by
sell and transfer unto the said Daniel Stone, his heirs, executors, and administrators, the one equal moiety or halflpart of
all the right, title, claim, and interest of him, the said Isaac
R. Trimble, of, in, and to the patent-right aforesaid, which
he purchased as aforesaid of the said William Howe, the
sale heretofore made to Reading excepted."
A copartnership between the parties in the business of
building bridges under Howe's patents was then entered
into, and it was agreed that if' either party should at any
time desire a dissolution, Trimble should name a sum which
he would be willing to give or take for a moiety of the rights
which he acquired from HIowe, including the payments to
Howe, and that Stone should thereupon decide whether he
would buy or sell. It was further provided that the copartnership might be dissolved at the expiration of six months
after notice by either party.
Trimble was examined as a witness, and testified as follows: Stone never made any of the payments which he was
required to make by the contract. By common consent of
the parties, the contract never went into operation in ainy
way, because Stone was unable to comply with any of' his
engagements. 'rXiilnble was compelled to pay, and did pay,
the full amount of the instalments still due on.his contract
with Howe. Stone during his 1l'fetime never claimed any
right under the contract; but, on the contrary, always recognized Trimble's exclusive right to the interest referred to in
the agreement, and acted as Trimble's agent in building

RAILROAD COMPANY V. TRIMBLE.

[Sup. Ct..

Opinion of the court.

bridges, under a power of attorney, paying Trimble a part
of the profits for the privilege. There was no other evidence on the subject. Trimble's testimony was uncontradicted.
The agreement was recorded in the Patent Office on the
27th of July, 1864, after Stone's death, and more than
eighteen years after the date of its execution.
The words, "a n d do hereby sell and transfer," found in the
copy from the Patent Office, which was used in evidence in
the court below, are not in the copy annexed to the bill filed
in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. But, conceding that
they were in the contract as executed, and that the contract
had the same effect in transferring to Stone a moiety of
Trimble's rights and interests, which Trimble's contract
with Howe had in transferring the whole to Trimble, then
a question arose for the jury as to the effect of the facts disclosed in Trimble's testimony. Upon the trial the court, at
the request of the plaintiffs, charged the jury in effect, that
if they found the facts to be as testified by Trimble, the contract between Trimble and Stone " was not to be regarded
as passing any title to Stone, which the defendant was entitled to set up in connection with any other evidence in the
cause as a bar to the right of the plaintiffs to recover,"
provided they found also the execution and delivery of
Trimble's deed to his co-plaintiffs. To this instruction the
plaintiffs in error excepted.
If the facts were as alleged by Trimble, his contract with
Stone was stillborn. It never had any, vitality. Neither
the legal representative of Stone nor any one in privity with
him asserts its validity in this litigation. Itis vicariously
put forward by the plaintiffs in error. They seek to give it
life and vigor, and invoke its aid for their protection.
If a deed of real estate be executed and recorded, prima
facie it conveys the legal title; but if it be shown it was not
delivered, that destroys its effect.* A judgment may be
assigned without written evidence of the transfer.t A party
* Maynard v. Maynard et al., 10 Massachusetts, 456.
t Ford v. Stuart, 19 Johnson, 842.

Dec. 1870.]

e ARNARD V.

K]ELLOGG.

Syllabus.

may waive a constitutional provision which applies in his
favor.* Fraud or mistake in the execution of a deed may
be shown at law.t The most solemn contracts under seal,
where the statute of frauds is not involved, may be changed
or abrogated by a new parol agreement, express or implied;
and a contract within the statute may be taken out of it by
the conduct of the parties.1 If Stone's administrator were
to sue Trimble, and the facts should be established as Trimble alleges them to be, the action would be barred by estoppel
in pais. We think the instruction was correct, and that it
properly submitted this part of the, case to the jury.
The plaintiffs in error submitted eight prayers for instructions. The 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, and 8th, were refused.
The refusal was excepted to. Some of the points which
they present were not insisted upon in the argument at the
bar. The others are sufficiently answered by what has
already been said.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY dissented, on the ground that
there was not enough language in the assignment of Howe
to Trimble to show that a transfer of the extension was intended.

BARNARD V.

KELLOQGG.

A wool broker in Boston sent to a dealer in wool tt Hartford samples of foreign wool in bales which he had for sale, on commission, with the prices,
and the latter offered to purchase the different lots at the prices, if equal
to the samples furnished. The wool, broker accepted the offer, provided
the wool dealer in Hartford would come to Boston and examine the

wool on a day named, and then report if be would take it.

The wool

- dealer went to Boston, and after examining certain of the bales as fully
as he desired, and being offered an opportunity to examine all the

remainb;g bales and to have them opened for his inspection (which
*

Baker v. Braman, 6 Hill, 48.

J hartshorn, Executor, v. Day, 19 Howard. 223.
: Emerson v. Slater, 22 Howard, 41.

