Dec. 1869.]

CLARK V. BOUSFIELD.

Statement of the case.

a question exclusively for the court. The point was so ruled
by this court in Toland v. Sprague.* Where the proofs are
conflicting, the question is a mixed one of law and of fact.
In such cases the court should instruct the jury as to the
law upon the several hypotheses of fact insisted upon by the
parties.
If the evidence in the case was such as warranted the
court in refusing the instructions asked by the defendants,if there were several posts between the time of the receipt
of the account by the defendants and the date of the letter
objecting to it,-the court should have instructed the jury
that the letter was not within a reasonable time, which is
the opposite of the instruction asked. This would have
been conclusive against the defendants. The error of the
court in submitting the question to the jury was therefore
favorable to them, and they have no right to complain.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CLARK v. BOUSFIELD.
A claim for arranging an elastic bed for printing designs, is not a claim for
a design under the eleventh section of the act of March 2d, 1861, entitled "An act in addition to an act to promote the progress of the useful
arts,"-but is a claim for a device.

ON certificate of division between the judges of the Circuit Court for the Northern Disti'ict of Ohio, the case being
this:
The Patent Act of July 4th, 1836, "to promote the progress of the useful arts," authorized the patenting of any
"new and useful art, machine, manufacture or composition
of matter," and gives an exclusive right to the patentee for
a term of fourteen years, with a privilege of renewal for
seven in certain cases, but this act did- not allow a patent for
mere designs.
* 12 Peters, 836; see also Lockwood v. Thorne, 1 Kernan, 175.

CLARK v. BOUSFIELD.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

The eleventh section of an act of March 2d, 1861, entitled
"An act in addition to an act to promote the progress of the
useful arts," extends this privilege of patent. It secures to
the inventor or producer of any original design, &c. ; or any
new and original impression or ornament, to be placed on
any article of manufacture, &c.; or any new and useful pattern, or print, or picture, to be either worked on, or printed,
or painted, on any article of manufacture; or any new and
original shape or configuration of any article of' inaunuicture, not known or used before, &c., a patent for the exclusive property therein ; and it gives this right for a term of
years, different fron the tern granted by the act of 1836 to
the inventor of a machine, &c.
With both acts in force, R. & A. Cross obtained, Decembcr-27th, 1864, a patent for a new and useful improvenicut
in machines for graining pails,'and other analogous uses.
[See the diagratn, page 135.] The nature of it, as declared
by them in the schedule to the letters patent, consisted in
constructing an elastic bed, containing the impression or
impressions of the device to be gra-ined upon the pail, in
separate panels, each phnel to be of different design, so that
by moving the pail over the same the various designs would
be stamped upon the pail, thus producing a pail whose staves
were painted in imitation of different kinds of wood. The
patentees then described the instrument or maciline, which
they stated to be a box, into which the elastic material, with
the required designs to be grained upon the pail, is placed,
and which might, according to their statoment, be constructed of wood or iron, or any other suitable material, and
so shaped (describing the shape minutely), that when the
pail was adjusted pr.operly upon the bed, and rolled upon
and over it, the upper or larger end of the pail should follow
the outer curve of the bed; and the lower or smaller should
follow the interior or smaller curve with exactness and precision. "The elastic bed," they say, "may present one continuous or uniform design if desired, or it may be arranged
in blocks or staves, each of different designs, so that the pail
grained thereon or thereby shall present the appearance of

Dec. 1869.]

CLARK V. BOUSFIELD.
Statement of the case.

being constructed of different kinds or species of wood. The
elastic bed may be composed of any suitable impressible
material, as rubber or leather; but a compound of glue and
molasses, such as is used for printers' rollers, is preferred."

/

//

The patentees then described the contrivances for working
the elastic bed in connection with the pail, so as to effect the
graining of the latter. By this contrivance the pail, they
state, is readily rolled by hand across the bed, leavinig upon

CLARK V. "BOUSFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

it the desired design or figure, or the pail may be suspended
on handles, and the elastic bed itself moved beneath it, in
a suitably arranged groove or track, producing the same
result.* The patentees then set forth their claims, the first
two of which only are material:
First. " We claim constructing the bed of the elastic material
used in graining machines, in the form herein shown, substantially as and for the purposes specified."
Second. " We claim arranging the elastic material aforesaid,
whether curved or rectangular in form, in a series of distinct
The reader to whom the foregoing description of the instrument and of
its mode of.operation may not be sufficiently specific, may derive more precise ideas from -the following account, referring by letters to the different
parts of the invention :
DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION.

A, box or bed into which the elastic material, impressed with the required
designs to be grained upon the pails' is placed or framed.
a, b, c, d, e, f, g. Blocks or staves, each of different designs, into which
the elastic bed may be arranged, so that the pail or vessel grained shall present the appearance of being constructed of different kinds of woods, as
rosewood, oak, walnut, and others; this in case only, however, that the
manufacturer does not prefer one continuous design.
C, E, and F, the handles and other devices for affixing or attaching the
handles Cand F to the pails, to facilitate the operation of graining.
E E, a circular plate divided in two parts, to each of which is rigidly
attached the handles F F.
The handles F!F are connected by a hinge at h, and between them is
arranged a spring s, to throw said handles apart when not confined by the
ring 9 upon the ends of the same.
MODE OF OPERATION AND APPLICATION.

The ring r being removed from the end of the handle F F, the opposite
ends thereof approach each other, being forced together by the operation of
the spring s and hinge h; and thus the two parts of the plate E E are drawn
together, diminishing its size, so that it can be introduced within the chime
of the bottom of the pail, when by pressing the ends of F F together and
replacing the ring r, the plate E'E is expanded and adjusted within said
chime so as firmly to fasten the handle F to the pail. The handle Cis then
inserted and adjusted within the pail, when the operator grasps the handles
C F, and adjusts the pail upon the elastic bed, as shown; the paint or coloring matter having been previously applied theretf by means of a roller, or
in any other suitable and convenient manner. The pail is then readily
roiled across the bed and grained.

Dec. 1869.1

CLARK V. BOUSFIELD.

Argument for the patentee.

staves or designs, substantially as and for the purposes herein
shown and set forth."
On a suit below, by Clark and others, assignees of Cross,
the patentees, against one Bousfield, for infringement, it was
suggested on behalf of the defendant thatthe second claim
was for nothing more or other than a design, to be impressed
on the bed: and if this was so, that the claim would be void,
as a patent could not properly contain a valid claim for a
machine, and contain also a claim for a design; that the
two things were patentable under different acts and for
different terms -of time.
The judges of the Circuit Court were accordhigly divided
upon the question whether this second claim in said letters
patent was for anything patentable other than under the
already mentioned section eleven of the act of March 2d,
1861? And if riot, whether the patent was not void?
Messrs. J. Canfield and A. G. Riddle, for the plaintiff:
We admit that if this second claim is, in substance, a claim
for a design, instead of a claim for a principle in an apparatus, it should have been patented under the act of 1861; but
if it is for a principle in an apparatus, then we assert that it
does not come under the act of 1861, but under the act of
1836. Now Judge Grier, in Corning v. Burden,* has tbdefined the principle patentable as a machine:
"It is for the discovery or invention of some practicable
method or means of producing a beneficial result, or effect itself.
It is when the term process is used to represent the means or
method of producing a result, that it is patentable; and it will
include all methods or means which are not effected by the
mechanism or mechanical combinations. But the term process
is often used in a more vague sense, in which it cannot be the
subject of a patent; thuS, we say that a board is undergoing
the process of being planed, grain of being ground, iron of being
hammered or rolled. Here the term is used subjectively or
passively, as applied to the material operated on, and not' to the
method or mode of producing that operation, which is by me15 Howard, 268.

CLARK V.

BOUSFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the infringer.

ehanical means or the use of a machine, as distinguished from a
process. In this use of the term it represents the function of a
machine,' or the effect produced by it on the material, subjected
to the action of the machine. But it is well settled that a man
cannot have a patent for the function or abstract effect of a
machine, but only for the machine which produces it."
This language is both concise and correct, and tested by
it our second claim is for the machine which produces the
effect, and not fbr the effect itself. In other words, it is for
the machine which grains a pail in staves, which staves represent different kinds of wood, and not for the impression
upon the pafl, representing staves of diffbrent kinds of wood.
The means of producing this effect on the pail, is our machine, which comes under the act of 1836; the effect as produced, is a design, which comes under the act of 1861, and
for which we claim nothing.
Mr. George Willey, with a printed brief of Messrs. George
Villey, Jon E. Carey, and H. S. Sherman, contra:
The nature and object of the invention, as stated in the
specification, contemplated a design-and the construction of
a bed corresponding with the shape of the design, but as an
obvious sequence or incident- of the design. Nothing is
claimed'on the material, or box or bed or its material, nor as
to form could anything be claimed in the way of invention,
inasmuch as it involves the mere measurement of surfhce,
the simplest of mechanical operations. Then it says, "the
if
elastic bed may present one continuous or uniform desi~qn desired, or it may be arranged in blocks or staves, each of
different designs," meaning block or stave designs. Again,
it speaks of " diftbrent designs arranged in staves," which is
but another form of representing stave designs. Again, it
speaks of the "pail being rolled across the bed and grained
in staves in imitation of various woods or marbles." The
specification does not say, series of separate pieces or blocks,
but a " series of distinct staves or designs," and the specification speaks of "different designs arranged in staves, impressed upon a single united mass, so as to produce the

Dec. 1869.]

CLARK V. BoUSFIELD.

139

Opinion of the court.

same effect as when constructed in separate blocks," evidently treating staves and designs as synonymous or convertible, the word " staves" meaning stave designs; so that
from all these considerations it is obvious that stave designs
impressed on a bed, whether curved or rectangular, for the
purpose of transferring said stave designs to a pail or " other
analogous uses," or to rectangular objects, is the substantial
object or meaning of this second claim. If this be so, then
the doubt suggested below is well founded and the plaintiff
has no valid patent.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It will be seen by reference to the eleventh section of the
act of 1861, that if the second claim is patentable under'this
section, it must be a claim for an original design or impression, or ornament, or pattern, or picture, and the like, wholly
irrespective of the means of producing it. The patent is
simply for the design, &c., itself.
In order to understand the full meaning of this second
claim, it wiil be useful to settle the meaning of the first, as
the two are intimately connected.
The first, as'we have .seen, is for constructing the bed for
the elastic material used in graining machines in the form
shown and for the purposes suecified. The patentees describe it as a box or bed, and which may be constructed of
wood or iron, or of any other suitable material. This box
or bed is made for the purpose of holding the elastic material, whether of rubber or leather, or the compound of
glue and molasses, which is preferred. Now, the second
claim is for arranging the elastic material, when placed in
this box or bed, whether curved or rectangular in form, "in
a series of distinct staves or designs," for the purpose specified,
that is, for the purpose of graining pails in the variety of
colors or figures described. The elastic bed 4iay be arranged,
as is stated in the specification, so as to prekent one continuous or uniform design, or it may be arranged in blocks or
staves, each of different designs, so that the vessel shall present the appearance of different kinds of wood, as rosewood,

CLARK V.

BOUSFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

oak, walnut, and others. It may also be constructed of
separate pieces or blocks, as shown in the drawing, or the
material may be a single united mass, impressed by different
designs arranged in staves, so as to produce -the same effect
as when constructed in separate blocks. The two claims,
as we see, are closely connected, and each essential to the
complete construction of the instrument or apparatus,
which, when put into practical operation by the contrivances
pointed out in the specification, can accomplish the desired
result, which result is the graining of the exterior body of
the pail with a variety of colors and figures.
The learned counsel for the defendants below insists that
this second claim is only an arrangement of designs, and, in
a limited sense, he is no doubt right, but in its connection
with the, first claim, and with the machine for transferring
the design to pails, it is more; it is a part of the machine or
instrument, and an indispensable part; it is the elastic bed
of rubber, or of leather, or compound of glue and molasses,
of any arranged figure or design, that constitutes an element
in the machine, and which, with the curved box and contrivances for working the instrument, produces the desired
result. The figure or design is but incidental, and, as such,
has no other protection than that which the patent secures
to the inventor of the machine. The right to the use of the
machine carries along with it tlhe right to use the designs.
The arranged figure in the elastic bed is not the one protected by the eleventh section of the act of 1861; that is
the one which is transferred to the pail or wal-es, where its
beauty is first visible to the eye. While it remains in the
elastic material it exhibits no more beauty than if engraved
on stone or metal.
It may be that the inventors of the machine for impressing figures or designs upon pails or other wares would not
be protected from using figures or designs, the right of
property in which had been secured to the original inventor
under this eleventh section, but they may clearly use any
and all not thus protected. The machine in. question is
invented for reducing to practical use these figures and

Dec. 1869.]

FEILD V. FARRINGTON.
Syllabus&

designs, and will make them profitable to the original inventors or owners of them, if they choose to employ it.
We are of opinion that the first question should be answered in the affirmative and the second in the negative.

FEILD v. FARRINGTON.
L In a suit between a consignor, and his factors, who had made advances on
the consignrnent nearly equal to its value-the allegation of the consignor being non-compliance by the factors with his order to sell-the
alleged order, however, having been but a verbal one, and a conflict
of testimony existing as to whether such an order was given at allan instruction was rightly refused to the consignor, which rested the
liability of the factor on the bare fact of an order to sell, and which made
no allusion either to the large advances or to the fact that three weeks
after the alleged order to sell was given the factors wrote to their eonsignor a letter informing him that they had not sold his goods, as the market
had been dull and on the decline every day since he left them; that the goods
would not then sell for more than so iauch (a decline from former prices) ; that
they would be compelled to sell unless be made other shipments, or remitted in
cash as a margin, the money market being tight; that they had held on thus far
to neet his views, but that the declining tendency of the market induced them to
write, and asking to hear from him on his receipt of their lieter; which
letter the consignor received, and purposely declined to answer.
2. Where factors have made large advances, or incurred expenses on account
of the consignment, the principal cannot by any subsequent orders control their right to sell at such a time, as in the exercise of a sound discretion, and in accordance with the usage of trade, they may deem best
to secure indemnity to themselves and to promote the interests of the
consignor; they acting, of course, in good faith and with reasonable
skill.
3, The effect of the refusal by the consignor to reply to such a letter as the
one mentioned in the first paragraph above, within a reasonable time
after he received it, was to raise a presumption that he approved of what
his factors had done,'qo far as their letter informed him; and in the
absence of anything to rebut that presumption, he was to be regarded
as having consented to wbatever delay had occurred in effecting a sale,
even though the delay was contrary to his directions.
4. The receipt and non-acknowledgment of such a letter would not, however,
relieve the factors from a continuing obligation to sell within a reasonable time, all the circumstances of the case being considered; and at
the best prices that could be obtained.

