MAHONEY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

value of the clothing at the time of delivery to the United
States was greater than the market value of the materials
when made or sold by the manufacturers, or purchased by
the plaintiff in error, by more than five per cent. ad valorem.
We infer that the duties on the materials were paid when
or before they became the property of the plaintiff in error.
And these circumstances, as it seems to us, take the manufactured goods out of the category of exemption established
by the law.
The language of the act seems, indeed, hardly to admit of
any other interpretation. In terms stripped of superfluous
words, it provides that goods manufactured from materials
upon which duties have been paid, when the increased value
shall not exceed the amount of five per cent. ad valorem,
shall be exempt. The obvious construction of this language
is, that increased value means the value augmented since the
original payment of the duties; and that the five per cent.
is to be computed on the value of the materials when those
duties were paid.
This construction requires the affirmance of the judgment
of the Circuit Court, and it is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

MAHONEY V. UNITED STATES.
The provision of the act of Congress of May lst,.1810, fixing a salary to
the consul at Algiers and assigning to him certain duties, treating that
place as belonging to a Mohammedan power, ceased to be operative
when the country, of which it was the principal city, bAcame a province
of France. The construction of the Secretary of State to this effect, irnpiiedly sanctioned' by the act of Congress of Maroh 1st, 1855, ,to remodel the diplomatic and consular systems of the United States?" (10
Stat. at Large, 621), and expressly sanctioned by the act of August 18th,
1866, to regulate those systems. (11 Id. 52.)

from the Court of Claims, the case being this:
An act of Congress, ".fixing the compensation of public
ministers and~of consuls residing on the coast of Barbar-,
APPEAL

Dec. 1869.]

MAHONEY V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

and for other purposes," passed on the 1st of May, 1810,*
provides that the President shall not allow "to any consul,
who shall be appointed to reside at Algiers, a greater sum
than at the rate of $4000 per annum as a compensation for
all his personal services and expenses." Provision is made
by the same act for salaries to consuls at Tangiers, Tripoli,
and Tunis, other towns of the same coast.
At the time when this act was passed, Algiers was and
had long been the capital, regency, or pachalic of the saine
name; one of the well-known Barbary States, a Mohammedan power, and dependent on the Ottoman empire; from
wrhich empire Turkish pirates had issued in early days,
establishing themselves as sovereign masters of the city of
Algiers. In 1830, a French army landed on the African
coast, and after some fighting Algiers opened its gates, and
the Dey gave up his city and government. The city then,
A. D. 1831, became and still remains the capital of the
French colonial province of Algeria; French tribunals, including at Algiers a tribunal of commerce, having largely
displaced the native.
The act of 1810 above-mentioned, specified the sum which
might be allowed to consuls residing at Algiers, Tangiers,
Tripoli,and Tunis-all of them ports of what were known as
the already mentioncd Barbary States. It also provided
that "no consul of the United States, residing in the Barbary
States, should own, in whole or in part, a vessel; or be concerned in trade;;" and some other provisions in the act
showed that it had reference to a consul at Algierst as a
place under the control of one of these same states.
. An act subsequent to the conquest of Algiers by the French
.- the act of March 1st, 1855-making provision for consuls
iii the " Barbary States," fixed a compensat'ion for consuls at
the last three named places italicized as above, but made no
provision for the appointment or payment of a consul at
Algiers; and a still later act-that of August 18th, 1856,
making similar provision, and specifically mentioning the
2 Stat. at Large, 609.

"t See

4, 5, and 6.

MAHONEY V. UNITED STATES.

[SUP. Ct.

Argument for the consul.

last three, but not specifically mentioning Algiers-enacted
that consuls for places not thus specifically mentioned should
be entitled, as compensation for their services, to such fees as.

they might collect.
With this act of 1810 on the statute-book, but after the
conquest of Algiers already mentioned, one Mahoney, in
1854, was appointed consul of the United States at the city
of Algiers, in the north of Africa. He soon afterwards entered upon the discharge of his duties, and continued ii
office until November, 1859, when he resigned. During
this period he received no salary from the government, nor

did he make any return to the government of fees received by him
as consul, but he was paid the necessary expenses of his office, and
was allowed bu the, Department of Slate to transact business as a
merchant. Whilst in office he preferred no claim for any
salary or compensation for his services, nor did he afterwards advance any such claim until July, 1865. He then
presented his claim for $4000 a year as salary to the Treasury
Department. That department referred the matter to the
State Department, and Mr. Seward, then Secretary of State,
informed him that his claim could not be allowed. Its payment was accordingly refused. He then brought suit in the
Court of Claims to recover the amount.
That court, which found as facts the matters stated in this
last paragraph, dismissed the bill, holding among other
things as matter of law, that from and after the recognition
of Algeria by the United States as a province of France, the
powers and duties of the consulate at Algiers were regulated
and defined by tile treaties of the United States with Franice,
and that the consul became entitled to receive and hold his
fees of office and to transact business, and was not entitled
to receive the salary of $4000 per annum, authorized by the
act of 1810, fixing the compensation of col suls residing ol
the coast of Barbary.
F om this dismissal Mahoney, the claimant, appealed.

r. T. J. D). Fuller,for the appellant,contended that the conquest of Algiers by the French, and their taking possession

Dec. 1869.]

MAHoNEY

v. TTNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

of it, could not repeal, annul, or even impair an act of Congress; that though the changed state of things, brought
about by the conquest, was a good reason why Congress
should alter the law passed before the change, yet if Congress did not alter it the law remained.
Nor could it be argued as a fact, he contended, that old
Algiers-had so completely ceased to exist as that the statute
of 1810 became null. Neither town, port, nor people had
disappeared from the exact place where they were. It was
still the same city; a port of the sea frequented as before by
merchants, and for commerce and trade.- The only change
was that it had ceased from being a power subject to Turkey,
and had become a vice-royalty- or dependency of France.
But, he argued, that the office being a commercial, and not
a diplomatic one, it mattered not whether Algiers became
subject to the sovereignty of France, or remained subject to
the Ottoman Porte. The port remained the same, and the
laws regulating the consulate the same; just as if the island
of Cuba should be ceded by Spain to any other European
power, Havana would remain a commercial port, and the
salary fixed by law to the American consul residing there
also remain.
Mr. Talbot, contra, was stopped by the court.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts as found by the
Court of Claims, delivered the opinion of the court.
The language of the act of Congress of May 1st, 1810,
would seem to indicate that the extent of the compensation
to be made to the consul at Algiers was, within the limits
prescribed, $4000 a year, subject to the control of the President, and that the amount specified was not payable absolutely to the person appointed.., But assuming, fbr the purposes of this case, that the act fixes absolutely the rate of
compensation, we do not think it sustains the claim of the
appellant.
When that act was passed Algiers was a part of one of the
Barbary States of that name, and it is evident, from an exVOL. X.

5

MAHONEY,V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

amination of its provisions, that the act was intended to
apply to a consulate at that place only so long as it belonged
to one of the Barbary powers. Years before the appointment of the appellant, Algiers, and the country of which it
was the principal city, had become a province of France.
A great distinction has always been made between consuls
to Mohammedan and consuls to Christian countries, both in
the powers intrusted to them and in the duties with which
they are charged. The full reciprocity which, by the general
rule of international law, prevails between Christian states
in the exercise of jurisdiction over the subjects or citizens
of each other in their respective territories, is not admitted
between a Christian state and a Mohammedan state in the
same circumstances; and in our treaties with Mohammedan
powers, express stipulations are made for the enjoyment by
our citizens of certain exterritorial rights with respect to
their persons and property. Whilst, therefbre, in Christian
countries consuls are little more than mere commercial
agents, in Mohammedan countries they are clothed with diplomatic and even with judicial powers. Consuls to Christian countries are often allowed to engage in business; but
consuls to Mohammedan countries are restricted to the duties
of their offices, are paid a stated salary, and are prohibited
from entering into commercial transactions.*
Thus, in the treaty with the Dey of Algiers, made in 1816,t
it was stipulated that disputes between citizens of the United
States should be decided by the consul; and in case a citizen
of the United States should kill, wound, or strike a subject
of Algiers, or, on the contrary, a subject of Algiers should
kill, wound, or strike a 6itizen of the United States, the law
of the country should "take place, and equal justice" be
rendered, the consul assisting at the trial; and that the property of a citizen of the United States dying in Algiers should
be under the immediate direction of the consul, unless otherwise disposed of by will.
Halleck on International Law, chap. 10,
torneys-General, vol. vii, 346-348.

, 8 Stat. at Large, 244.

21, 22; Opinions of the At-

Dec. 1869.]

67

MAHONEY V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

Provisions like these are not generally made in treaties
between Christian nations; and they impose duties upon
consuls NOhich are not exacted of those officers when acting
as mere comrfiercial agents. It is plain that the duties for
which a consul, inhibited from engaging in commerce, and
charged with diplomatic and judicial functions, was required
at Algiers, whilst tldat-place formed part of a Mohammedan
power, and this treaty was in force, ceased when that country passed under the jurisdiction of a Christian nation, and
the treaty with the Dey thus expired. The Department of
State from that time hafs treated the consulate there as one
with6ut salary, to which the provisions of the act of May,
1810, were no longer applicable; one which allowed the incumbent, as consuls in the countries subject to France are
allowed, to engage in business, and only entitled to receive
is compensation for his services such fees as he might collect, besides the necessary expenses of,.hjis~office.*
The construction thus given by the secretary was impliedly
sanctioned by the act of Congress of March 1st, 1855,-"to
remodel the diplomatic and consular systems of the United
States,"t and was expressly sanctioned by the act of August
18th, 1856, to regulate those systems.t
The act of 1810, after specifying the compensation which
might be allowed to the consul appointed to reside at Algiers,
designated the sum which might be allowed to other consuls
appointed to reside in any other of the states on the coast
of Barbary, thus making provision for all the Barbary States.
The ports of these states, where consuls were appointed to
reside, were Tangiers, Algiers, Tripoli, and Tunis. Now,
in the act of March 1st, 1855, compensation is fixed, under
the head of "Barbary States," for consuls to all those places
except Algiers, and no provision is anywhere made for the
appointment of a consul at that place, or for compensation
to one there, showing that Congress did not then think that
a consul with a salary there existed, or was there required.
The act of August 18th, 1856, enumerates the same places,
* 8 Stat. at Large, 106; 10 Id. 992.

-t 10 Id. ( 21.

: 11 Id. 52.

'TEXAS V. IHARDENBERG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

under the same head of Barbary States, at which consuls are
to be appointed to reside, and designates their compensation,
omitting, as in the act of 1855, the city of Algiers, and provides that consuls not thus enumerated shall be entitled, as
compensation for their services, to such fees as they may
collect, a provision which in effect declares, when read in
connection with the preceding clauses of the act, that they
shall receive no other compensation. And this latter act
repeals all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with its provisions.
We find no error in the judgment of the Court of Claims,
and it is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

TEXAS V. IJARDENBERG.
1. Under a bill by a State praying that a defendant may be enjoined from
asking payment of certain United States bonds belonging to it, unlawfully taken some time before from its treasury, and now redeemable,
and for such other andfurtherrelief as the court may deem proper, equity
will follow a substituted security (new bonds bearing interest) given by
the United States; the substitution having been made after the issue
of process under the bill, though before service, by agreement between
the holder of the bonds and the United States, in order that the party
properly entitled, whoever he might be finally under the bill decided
to be, should not lose interest; and the new bonds being held by a trustee for this purpose.
2. A party buying bonds of the United States with overdue and unpaid coupons, is to be taken as affected with knowledge of prior equities when
he purchases them after the date when they are redeemable, and for
which the coupons run, knowing that the government, paying promptly
all its bonds generally, objects at that time to redeeming these, and does
not in fact redeem them or the overdue coupons, and where notice has
been given in public papers of great circulation that payment of the
bonds was forbidden, and that there was difficulty about them.

Tiis case, which, in its principal aspect, has been already
reported,* was now here upon an additional part of it, and
* 7 Wallace, 700.

