Dec. 1870.]

STAGG V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
Statement of the case.

perior Court of Morgan County and the Supreme Court of
Georgia rightly adjudged that the equitable plaintiffs are
entitled to a share of the estate of the decedent in the adininistrator's intestate. That is no longer an open question.
It was concluded by the decree offered in evidence. It cannot be tried again in this case.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

STAGG V.

INSURANCE COMPANY.

1. Where there is an express contract for the compensation of an insurance
agent, no proof of a general custom as to such compensation is admissible which is in conflict with the contract.
2, Where such agent had received a general circular from his company,
which contained in clear language the terms of his compensation, and
had acted on that circular without complaint for several years, he is
es'topped to deny that he was employed on those terms.
8. The production of a circular of prior date, with other terms as to compensation, does not alter the case.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri;
the case being this:
Stagg became the igent of the Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Company, in October, 1849, by his acceptance of
a circular which contained this language:

"The usual compensation of agents, so far as we know, is 10
per cent. commission on the premiums, with one dollar for each
policy, and 5 per cent. on the premiums on the renewal of

policies."

This circular gave him certain instructions about his
agency, and some suggestions as to the modes of inducing
persons to insure with the company. In about a year afterwards he received another circular like the former one in its
nain purpose, but' much more full and specific; a sort of
short essay on the subject of life insurance, setting forth its

590

STAGG V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the agent.

advantages, and pointing out the various reasons which the
agent might advantageously suggest to persons whom he
should address, why they should insure their lives, and do
this with the Connecticut company rather than with any
other company. This second circular, intended obviously
for his careful perusal and study throughout, contained, in
lieu of the language above cited, from the first one, the
following:
"For your services, as above, you will be allowed a commission of 10 per cent. on the first premiums (cash and notes), and
5 per cent. on all subsequent renewal premiums, so long as you
continue the agent of the company."
The plaintiff received and acted on this latter paper for
about fifteen years, when he was discharged. He now brought
this suit, claiming some $3000, as the 5 per cent. commission on the renewal premiums of policies originally made
-by him as agent, which had been received by the company
since he was discharged.
To support this claim be undertook to prove by other insurance agents that such was the custom as between insurance companies and their agents. But the court ruled as
matter of law that there was ai express contract in the case,
and that the custom could not be admitted.
It also ruled that the later circular was substituted as a
new contract instead of the first one, and that its fair construction was to limit the agency to the pleasure of the company, and to terminate the right of the agent to commissions
on renewal premiums with the revocation of his agency.
These rulings, or more particularly the second one, made
the error complained of.
Mr. J. C. Moody, for the plaintiff in error:
When Stagg received the second circular, he had already
a contract with the;company fixing the terms of his agency.
le knew they could not be changed without his consent.
If the company wanted to change them lie might well have
presumed that they would address him directly upon the

Dec. 1870.]

STAGG V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

Argument for the agent.

subject. Ile might have overlooked the little clause in question of the second circular entirely, covered up, as it was,
in a mass of other matters; or, if it had caught his attention, he might have thought that it was meant for subsequently employed agents.
Now, if he did not-notice the clause, that is to say, if he
did not really apprehend it as a proposition directly made to
1 im, how shall he be bound by it? It becomes, then, a
main question in the case, "Is it so plain that the circular
was meant to bring about a change in the terms of Stagg's
agency, that the law will impute to him a recognition of
such intent?" Let it be kept in mind that it takes two to
make a bargain, and as many to unmake one. The use proposed to be made of this circular is to unmake a bargain of
a year's standing; to convert the circular into a direct personal address to Stagg, saying: "Either give up your contract entitling you to an interest in renewals, or by which
you claim such interest, or resign." But the Connecticut
Life Insurance Company was possessed of no authority to
deal with its agents in this military style. It had contracted
with Stagg, and if'it .was dissatisfied with its contract, it
should have addressed him directly on the subject, in the
usual way of conducting a business correspondence. The
clause in the circular looks like a trap to catch the unwary.
But assuming that the circular is the equivalent of adirect
appeal in the usual mode of a commercial correspondence,
proposing that Stagg accept of the new terms or resign, is his
silence acceptance of the new terms ? We deny that it is.
If A. has bought a horse of B., and obtained possession at the
agreed price of $200, would he be bound to take any notice
wlatever-of a note from B. informing him that if le retained
the horse he would expect $500 for him ? If an auctioneer
had sold a hundred horses, and delivered thern, or a hundred houses, and delivered them, could be impose new terms
upon the purchasers through the instrumentality of a circular like this? Of ourse not, in either case. Stagg, betre
and at the issuing a'd reception of the circular, had his contract with the company, and possession under it. Ile was

STAGG V.

INSURANCE

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

no more bound to answer a proposition from the company
for new terms than was the company to answer a similar
proposition from him. The limit of his right in that direction was to write to the company, saying: "Send me better
terms, or I resign." The limits of the company's right with
him was a direct note, saying: "Accept harder terms, or we
turn you out." It could not even say, "Accept the harder
terms, or resign." If it had, he would not have been bound
to resign. Nor would his failing to resign afford an argument that he had accepted the harder terms. lIe had, in
that view, the right of continuing on under his old contract
until removed.
So we may say that, admitting the clause referred to in
the circular was meant for Stagg; that he so understood it;
that he was bound to treat it as a direct proposition to accept
the new terms or resign (all which matters we deny), it put
no obligation upon him either of accepting the new terms
or of resigning.
The company not being possessed of power to compel his
resignation, but only to remove him, he might well wait to
see, if after all, they would go so far as to turn him off.
Possibly they might not do so.
We do not deny that the agency held under the letter
of 1848 was held at the pleasure of the principal. Our
proposition is that, being so held, the company never revoked it until they removed Stagg in 1864; that the agency
was not revoked by the circular of 1849.

Mr. J1. H. Krum., contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The right of the insurance company to terminat6 the
agency of the plaintiff, at its discretion, is not denied by his
counsel, nor is there any serious effort to support the offer
to prove the custom. Indeed, if the court was right in
holding that the contract betveen the parties was expressed
by the language of the second circular, it is quite clear there
was no room for usage, for it is there expressly stated that

Dec. 1870.]

WARD V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

the commission on the renewal pren-iums, like 'those on
the original prerniums, was to be paid only so long as the
plaintiff continued to be the agent of the comIpany.
Nor can we doubt for a moment that the later circular
must be held to represent the agreement of the parties as
to coml)ensation. After having received that circular and
acted on it for fifteen years, received and adjusted his compensation by it, he is estopped to deny that it was the contract under which he acted. If there was any other contract
it was for him to show it. lie does not do this by producing
the circular of the year previous. If' there was anything
fraudulent, unfiir, or illegal iu the new terms offered, or in
the mode in which lie was induced to accept them, he should
have shown it, but he has not even attempted it.
We are, therefore, clearly of opinion that when it is shown
that, as agent of the company, he received and acted upon
that circular, he is bound by its terms as the mcasure of his
compensation.
JUDGMENT A FriRmED.

WARD v. UNITED STATES.
An ancient claim against the United States, founded on loan certificates
issued by the Continental Congress in 1777, and sent to the loan office
in Georgia, to be given in exchange for money when countersigned by
the loan officer of that State, rejected; there being no sufficient evidence that the certificates were countersigned and issued as required by
the legislation which authorized them; the amu claim having been rejected in 1792 by Alexander Hamilton, then Secretary () the Treasury,
and there being no sufficient evidence now that the facts then assumed
by him as the basis of his conclusions were unfounded. The claim being
moreover considered by this court as without equity.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
The Continental Congress, on the 3d clay of October,
1776, being in want of five millions of dollars to prosecufe
the war, resolved to borrow it on what were called loanTeL. x.

88

