Dec. 1869.]

DEFaY v. 0CRAY.
Syllabus.

Hearing was had on the petition and the coul't having
duly considered the petition and exhibits submitted by the
petitioner in this cause, and " being satisfied that the prayer
thereof cannot be granted, it is ordered and decreed that the
said petition be dismissed with colts."
Judgment rendered June 14th, 1869. Judgment signed
June 18th, 1869.
The forms of verdicts and judgments, it is true, are not
controlled, even in Louisiana, by the State law, but there
must be some variation from the form of a judgment as at
common law to render it appropriate to the form of the process adopted in that circuit. Common law suits as well as
suits in equity are commenced in that court by petition, and
the judgment in this case is in a form not unusual in that
court. It is called a judgment in the record and treated as
such by the court and the parties, and in our opinion the
writ of error ought not to be dismissed for either of the
reasons assigned in the motion.
MOTION DENIED.

DEERY V. CRAY.
1. A deed which referred to a plat of the land for one of the lines of the
boundary, may be read in evidence to the jury without the production of the plat, subject to an identification of such line by competent
evidence during the progress of the trial.
2. A deed which refers to such a plat for one line, or which authorizes the
line to be run by a certain person according to such a plat, is not void
for uncertainty on its face.
3. In case of such a deed made a great many years ago, though the plat is
not produced, it is competent to show by other proof, written or parol,
or both, that such a line existed and where it was located.
4. This may be shown by long possession on each side of the line evidenced
by a fence, by the parol declarations of the parties holding under the
deed on each side of the line, or by any facts which clearly establish the
existence of such a line and its location.
5. The erroneous instruction of the court in regard to the effect of a deed
of mortgage on the plaintiff's title, is no ground for reversal, when this

DEERY V. CRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
court can see that the plaintiff had no title on which the jury could
have found in his favor.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland.*
Eliza Deery brought ejectment October 12, 1863, in the
court just mentioned, to recover from one Cray an undivided
fifth part of the southern half of Kent Fort Manor, an
ERROR

ancient manor in Kent County, Maryland. This manor was
an irregularly shaped piece of land, whose longest direction
is mainly north and south, surrounded entirely by water
except on the northern line, which crosses a rather narrow
This case had been under the consideration of the court once before on
error to the same court as now (5th Wallace, 795). It was then sent back
for a second trial. The present writ of error was directed to the rulings of
the-court on that new trial.

Dec. 1869.]

DEERY V. CRAY.
Statement of the case.

neck of land. The diagram illustrates roughly, and without various indentations from the waters which run up into
the body of the manor, its outline forms and will make obvious the fact-a fact necessarily belonging to the division
of a piece of land, thus shaped-that, if the manor were
divided into two nearly equal parts by a line running from
the western water-boundary to the eastern, all of the southern half would be surrounded by water, except the short
line separating it on the north from the other half.
The plaintiff having established on the trial a title to the
whole of the manor in Samuel Lloyd Chew, one of her ancestors, further traced the title by descent to Lowman Chew,
who died in 1862 childless and intestate, leaving five heirs
of whom she is one. The defendants, on the other hand, introduced conveyances' from Samuel A. Chew, the father of
Lowman Chew, for a large part of the northern half of the
manor, and, it was conceded that the plaintiff had no controversy with the tenant in possession of the remainder of
the northern half not conveyed by Samuel A. Chew.
The controversy was thus limited to the southern half, of
which, as already said, the plaintiff claimed an undivided
fifth part, and to which she had shown a primcifacie title.
To defeat this the defendants introduced a deed dated
October 22d, 1787, from the said Samuel Lloyd Chew (from
-whom the plaintiff derived title) to his mother, Elizabeth
0hew, which was asserted to be a conveyance of the fee of
this south half of the manor.
The description of this land in this deed was in these
words:
"All that moiety or half part of a tract of land called Kent
Fort Manor, lying and being in Kent Island, in Queen Anne's
County, being all that part of said tract of land which lies to
the southwestward of a line beginning on Northwest Crek and
running an easterly course, agreeable to the plat of said land
made by William Brown, of Anne Arundel County, in such manner as to comprehend one-half of the number of acres of the
whole traet, the said line to be run and ascertained under the
direction of John Thomas, Esquire, of Anne Arundel County."

DEERY " . CRAY.

[Sup. Ct. -

Statement of the case.

The plaintiff-objecting to this deed that the description
of the land conveyed by it was so uncertain, as to render
the deed void-excepted to the introduction of it, unless the
plat which the deed referred to as made by Brown was produced and its lines shown. The court, however, permitted
the deed to be read, subject to the right of the plaintiff to
exclude the same hereafter, if upon the closing of the testimony it should not have been legally and sufficiently applied
by the defendants to the maintenance of the issue on their
part.
The defendant then, in order to apply it, or in other
words, show that this northern line had an existence, so as
to enable one to determine what was the south half of the
manor, introduced certain evidence, as follows:
A map of the Kent Fort Manor, which was admitted to
be part of a record of a chancery suit in Maryland, filed in
1802, and the location on the said map of Susanna Tait's
moiety, admitted to be a correct location of the share of
said manor assigned in said court to Susanna Tait, as sister,
and one of the heirs of Arthur Bryan, in the partition of
his real estate. This map had figures and lines on it showing a division of the manor into two equal parta of 1002,
acres each, and that the division was made by a straight line
from a point on Northwest Creek, projecting far into the
body of the tract, in a course a little south of east, to the
eastern shore of the island.
Deeds showing conveyances of Elizabeth Chew (grantee
,in the deed whose admission in evidence we have already
stated was objected to) to one T. M. Foreman, from Foreman to Philip Barton Key, and from Key to Arthur Bryan,
of the same land, describing it either as the land on the sail
manor, purchased by Elizabetl Chew of her son*Samuel, or
as Elizabeth Chew's half part of the manor.
Proof by a witness over severity years old that lie knew
Robert Tait, the husband of Susanna, and Kent Fort Manor,
since lie was eleven years old. That a fence then divided
the north and south part of the manor, and said Tait held
up to that fence. That after Samuel A. Chew, the father of

Dec.. 1869.]

]DEERY V. CRAY.
Statement of the case.

Lowman Chew, came to live on the north half of the manor,
he and Robert Tait changed the location of the fence, and
that both recognized it as the boundary between them. And
there was other testimony showing the holding under these
parties by this line from that day to this.
Upon the deed thus admitted and the evidence just mentioned, the court below charged (the plaintiff excepting)
that the defendants were entitled to the verdict if they
should find that during the life of Samuel Lloyd Chew,
or after his son Samuel A. Chew acquired the interest in
the tract, and before his death, and more than twenty years
before suit brought, a division line or fence or boundary
between the upper and lower moieties of the tract was established by the common consent, or with the common acquiescence of the said Samuel Lloyd, or Samuel A., and Elizabeth Chew, or those claiming under her, and that the said
line, fence, or boundary was so established and recognized
by and between the parties as and for the upper line of the
lands intended to be conveyed to the said Elizabeth, by the
said Samuel Lloyd, and had thenceforward and for inore
than twenty years before suit brought so continued to be,
and that possession had ever since been continuously held
by the parties possessing and claiming title on both sides of
the line in recognition of and in conformity with said decision.
The introduction of the deed of 1787 from Samuel Lloyd
Chew to Elizabeth Chew, and these instructions of the court
on the effect of it and the title under it, made 'the principal
point in the case; the plaintiff's position being that the deed
ought not to have been admitted and that the charge was
wrong.
And there was a minor matter. The defendants gave iii
evidence a deed of mortgage from the plaintiff Eliza Deery
to one Scott of" all her undivided interest in a tract of land
lying in Queen Anne's Cou-nty, and containing six hundred

acres, more or less, being the same land and all the lands of
which Lowman Chew died seised, the said Eliza being one of
the heirs of said Chew." This, mortgage was executed Feb-

I)EERY V. C]RAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

ruary 7th, 1863, that is to say, ten months before the institution of this suit, and contained no provision for possession
by the mortgagor till default. The instrument being thus
in evidence the defendant asked the court to 'charge, that by
its execution the plaintiff bad parted with her legal title to
the real estate on Kent Island, of which Lowman Chew died
seised prior to the institution of the suit, and could not recover; which charge the court gave, the plaintiff excepting.
Verdict and judgment having gone for the defendant, the
other side brought the case here.
Messrs. Brent and Nittenden, for the plaintiff' in error:
1. As to the principal point of the case; the admission of
the deed of 1787 and the instructions given upon it. If we
assume that the separating and essential line was marked
on Brown's plat, and had already been run and located,
leaving on its south side precisely one-half of the acres in
the whole tract, and- that this pre-existing line was merely
to be run out and ascertained by John Thomas, so as to avoid
all dispute touching its location, then the court was in error
in admitting the deed before the plat of Brown, so indispensable to its location, was produced and identified, or if
lost, its contents proved by secondary evidence. The defendant, while offering his paper title in: evidence, is to be
assumed to rely on it exclusively "pro hae vice," and therefore its admissibility is to be tried as if the deed were executed recently.
The Maryland authorities require this proof of all lines
called for in a deed, because it is a material part of the instrument without which its legal operation cannot be determined, and they are equally conclusive against the reservation made by the court below, to the effect that the plaintiff
might move "to exclude the same hereafter, if upon closing
of the testimony it shall not have been legally and sufficiently applied by defendants to the maintenance of the issue
on their part." Whatever they may be in other States, the
land laws of Maryland are stringent and technical. The
principles which we maintain are settled by the Court of

Dec. 1869.

DEERY V. CRAY.
Opinion of the court.

Appeals of Maryland in the cases of Fenwick v. Floyd's
Lessee,* of Tonmas's Lessee v. Turvey,t and especially by that
of Hamnmond v. Norris.T
2. In regard to the minor point, the instruction about the
eflcct of the mortgage to Scott, the court ruled, that a legal
title passed as matter of law by the execution and delivery
of the deed of mortgage to all the land of which Lowman
Chew died seised, and yet it did -not require the jury to find
_th'-recording of the mortgage nor the identity of the land
conveyed.
Mr. S. T. Wallis, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The objection to the deed of 1787, from Samuel Lloyd
Chew to his mother, Elizabeth Chew, is, that the description of the land conveyed is so uncertain as to render the
deed void.
The plaintiff excepted to the introduction of this deed,
unless the plat therein referred to as made by Brown was
produced and its lines shown; but the court permitted the
deed to be read, subject to the right of the plaintiff to exclude the same hereafter, if upon the closing of the testimony it should not have been legally and sufficiently applied
by defendants to the maintenance of the issue on their part.
Now, unless the deed is so fatally defective as that no subsequent competent evidence could make it good in point of
description, the cQurt did not exceed its jutt discretion in
permitting it to be read. In other words, if the uncertainty
was a patent ambiguity, an uncertainty which inhered in the
essence of the description, rendering it incapable of being
applied to the subject-matter, then the deed was v6id absolutely, and should not have been admitted. Otherwise it
was well admitted.
But this does not seem to us to be the character of the
instrument. All the boundaries given are well known and
easily identified, except one. This one is to separate the
*1 Harris & Gill, 172.

t 1b. 437.

+ 2 Harris & Johnson, 180.

DEERY V. CRAY.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

southwestern half of the manor from the other half. The
division is to be into moieties exactly equal in quantity.
xow, it is entirely clear, that if you give a surveyor the
number-of acres of the whole tract, and the point on the
Northwest Creek where the division line is to commence, he
can then determine mathematically the course, the distance,
and the terminus of a straight line running an easterly direction which will divide the manor equally.
It may be conceded that if there was nothing referred to
in the deed by which the commencement of this line, or any
other part of it, could at the date of the deed have been
fixed, that it would have presented a patent ambiguity. But
if there wasanything by which either the beginning or the
end of the line could have been located, then the whole of it
could have been located. On this point the deed seems
sufficiently clear in two particulars. First, the line was to be
run agreeable to the plat of land made by William Brown,
of Anne Arundel County. Second, it was, with this aid, to
be run under the direction of John Thomas, of said county.
Now what is the meaning of this, fairly construed? It is
that the grantor conveys one-half in quantity of' the land.
It is to be divided by a'line running from the creek eastwardly, and there isa plat of this land made by William
Brown, which shows this line, which is to be run out on the
ground according to the plat, under the direction of John
Thomas. The deed, therefore, refers perspicuously to the
means which renders certain the description. "Ambiguitas
paten8," says Lord Bacon, "is that which appears to be.
ambiguous upon the deed or instrument: latens is that
which seemeth certain and without ambiguity, for anything
that appeareth upon the deed or instrument; but there is
some collateral matter out of the deed that breedeth the
ambiguity."
So here the deed on its face presented no apparent uncertainty. It is only when we come to apply it, and are unable
to find or identify the plat made by Brown or the line run
by Thomas, that there' is any difficulty.
The cases relied on by counsel for the plaintiff to show

Dee. 1869.]

DEERY v. CRAY.

Opinion of the court.

that the courts of Maryland have established a different doctrine, are not incon sistent with what we have said.
In Fenwick v. Floyd's Lessee, the land was described as
"part of Resurrection Manor, containing 251 acres more or
less." Resurrection Manor was a large tract of 4000 acres,
and the sheriff levied on and sold 251 acres of it, with no
other description than that just stated. Nothing else was
shown by which this quantity could be located or identified,
and the description was clearly a patent ambiguity on which
the levy and ghle was rejected as evidence.
In Thomas's Lessee v. Turvey, three levies and execution
sales were rejected, the schedules of which described the
land as "part of Borough Hall, containing the supposed
quantity of 130 acres of land, more or less." Borough Hall
was a tract of 500 acres, and there was nothing by which
the location of the 130 acres could be shown, nor any evidence that it had ever been located.
In Hammond'&Lessee v. Norris,the description in the deed.
was, "all these two parcels of land, being parts of a tract of
land called Wood's Enclosureand sold to said John Howard
by Joseph Wood, one parcel containing 86 acres, the other
94 acres, as by deed duly made and recorded in Frederick
County appears." The court overruled plaintiff's objection,
and permitted the deed to be read in evidence, but, as it
subsequently appeared that there was no such deed as that
referred to on record in Frederick County, and as no other
satisfactory proof was made of the location of these tracts
within the larger tract of Wood's Enclosure, the court finally
held that it conveyed no title.
That is just in accordance with the action of the court on
this case in admitting the deed to be read in evidence, subject to the effect of it as to title, when all the evidence
should be in.
This leads us next to inquire whether defendants have
shown, by satisfactory and competent evidence that this
northern line had an existence, so as to enable us to determine what is the south half of the manor.

DEERY V. CRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Upon this point it does not seem to us there can be any
doubt, for though the plat of William Brown is not produced, nor is it proved expressly that the line was ever run
under the direction of Mr. Thomas, yet there is as much
evidence as can possibly be expected to be produced after
the lapse of eighty years, that such a line was run, and that
with such slight changes as the holders of the title on each
side of it made by consent and for their mutual convenience,
a fence has been standing along that line ever since.
And this does not depend solely upon parol.evidence. The
map in the chancery suit in Maryland, filed in 1802; the
deeds produced, and the proof made by the ancient witnegs,
with the other testimony produced," we think quite sufficient to show that the line mentioned in the deed of Samuel
Lloyd Chew to his mother was run and established; that
with the change made by Tate and Samuel A. Chew fbr
convenience, it has remained the line to the present time,
and that the parties claiming the north and south parts of
the manor have recognized that fence for over thirty-five
years as the line dividing their estates.
We add further, that, as this testimony is uncontradicted,
it is conclusive against the claim set up by plaintiff of any
title derived from Samuel A. Chew, and of her case.t
It is unnecessary to inquire into the effect of the mortgage
given by plaintiff on her title, as we have already stated that
she had none on which the jury could have found a verdict in her favor, and the error, if there was one in the in.
structions of the court on that subject, could work her no
injury.1
JUDGMENT

AFFIRMED.

See statement of the case supra, p. 266, for the nature of this map, the

deeds, and other proof.--REP.
t Sargent v. Adams, 3 Gray, 72; Bertsch v. The Lehigh Coal Co., 4
Rawle, 139; Munroe v. Gates, 48 Maine, 463; Reed v. Proprietors, &e., 8
Howard, 289; Noonan v. Lee, 2 Black, 499.
Ryder v. Wombwell, Law Reports, 4 Exchequer, 82; Giblin v. Mullen,
Id., 2 Privy Council Appeal, 817.

