AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April
23, 1996, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §2075, and were reported to Congress by
THE CMIEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see
post, p. 1264. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. §2075, such amendments shall take effect
no earlier than December 1 of the year in which they are transmitted to
Congress unless otherwise provided by law.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure
and amendments thereto, see, e.g., 461 U. S. 973, 471 U. S. 1147, 480 U. S.
1077, 490 U. S. 1119, 500 U. S. 1017, 507 U. S. 1075, 511 U. S. 1169, and 514
U. S. 1145.

1263

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

23, 1996

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States, I
have the honor to submit to the Congress the amendments to
the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure that have been
adopted by the Supreme Court of the United States pursuant
to Section 2075 of Title 28, United States Code.
Accompanying these rules are excerpts fr-om the report of
the Judicial Conference of the United States containing the
Advisory Committee Notes submitted to the Court for its
consideration pursuant to Section 331 of Title 28, United
States Code.
Sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

1264

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 23, 1996
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure be,
and they hereby are, amended by including therein amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 1006, 1007, 1019, 2002, 2015,
3002, 3016, 4004, 5005, 7004, 8008, and 9006.
[See infra, pp. 1267-1278.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Bankruptcy Procedure shall take effect on December 1, 1996,
and shall govern all proceedings in bankruptcy cases thereafter commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in bankruptcy cases then pending.
3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and hereby is, authorized
to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments to
the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2075 of Title 28, United
States Code.

1265

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE
Rule 1006. Filingfee.
(a) General requirement.-Everypetition shall be accompanied by the filing fee except as provided in subdivision (b)
of this rule. For the purpose of this rule, "filing fee" means
the filing fee prescribed by 28 U. S. C. § 1930(a)(1)-(a)(5) and
any other fee prescribed by the Judicial Conference of the
United States under 28 U. S. C. § 1930(b) that is payable to
the clerk upon the commencement of a case under the Code.
Rule 1007. Lists, schedules and statements; time limits.
(c) Time limits.-The schedules and statements, other
than the statement of intention, shall be filed with the petition in a voluntary case, or if the petition is accompanied by
a list of all the debtor's creditors and their addresses, within
15 days thereafter, except as otherwise provided in subdivisions (d), (e), and (h) of this rule. In an involuntary case
the schedules and statements, other than the statement of
intention, shall be filed by the debtor within 15 days after
entry of the order for relief. Schedules and statements filed
prior to the conversion of a case to another chapter shall be
deemed filed in the converted case unless the court directs
otherwise. Any extension of time for the filing of the schedules and statements may be granted only on motion for cause
shown and on notice to the United States trustee and to any
committee elected under § 705 or appointed under § 1102 of
the Code, trustee, examiner, or other party as the court may
direct. Notice of an extension shall be given to the United
States trustee and to any committee, trustee, or other party
as the court may direct.

1268

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

Rule 1019. Conversion of Chapter 11 reorganization case,
Chapter 12 family farmer's debt adjustment case, or
Chapter 13 individual'sdebt adjustment case to Chapter 7 liquidationcase.
When a chapter 11, chapter 12, or chapter 13 case has been
converted or reconverted to a chapter 7 case:
Rule 2002. Notices to creditors, equity security holders,
United States, and United States trustee.
(a) Twenty-day notices to parties in interest.-Except as
provided in subdivisions (h), (i), and (1)of this rule, the clerk,
or some other person as the court may direct, shall give the
debtor, the trustee, all creditors and indenture trustees at
least 20 days' notice by mail of:
(1) the meeting of creditors under § 341 of the Code;
(2) a proposed use, sale, or lease of property of the
estate other than in the ordinary course of business,
unless the court for cause shown shortens the time or
directs another method of giving notice;
(3) the hearing on approval of a compromise or settlement of a controversy other than approval of an agreement pursuant to Rule 4001(d), unless the court for
cause shown directs that notice not be sent;
(4) in a chapter 7 liquidation, a chapter 11 reorganization case, and a chapter 12 family farmer debt adjustment case, the hearing on the dismissal of the case, unless the hearing is under §707(b) of the Code, or the
conversion of the case to another chapter;
(5) the time fixed to accept or reject a proposed modification of a plan;
(6) hearings on all applications for compensation or
reimbursement of expenses totaling in excess of $500;
(7) the time fixed for filing proofs of claims pursuant
to Rule 3003(c); and
(8) the time fixed for fling objections and the hearing
to consider confirmation of a chapter 12 plan.

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

1269

(c) Content of notice.
(2) Notice of hearing on compensation.-The notice
of a hearing on an application for compensation or reimbursement of expenses required by subdivision (a)(6) of
this rule shall identify the applicant and the amounts
requested.
(f) Other notices.-Except as provided in subdivision (1)
of this rule, the clerk, or some other person as the court
may direct, shall give the debtor, all creditors, and indenture
trustees notice by mail of: (1) the order for relief;
and (8) a summary of the trustee's final report in a chapter
7 case if the net proceeds realized exceed $1,500. Notice of
the time fixed for accepting or rejecting a plan pursuant to
Rule 3017(c) shall be given in accordance with Rule 3017(d).
(h) Notices to creditorswhose claims arefiled.-In a chapter 7 case, after 90 days following the first date set for the
meeting of creditors under § 341 of the Code, the court may
direct that all notices required by subdivision (a) of this rule
be mailed only to the debtor, the trustee, all indenture trustees, creditors that hold claims for which proofs of claim have
been ified, and creditors, if any, that are still permitted to
file claims by reason of an extension granted pursuant to
Rule 3002(c)(1) or (c)(2). In a case where notice of insufficient assets to pay a dividend has been given to creditors
pursuant to subdivision (e) of this rule, after 90 days following the mailing of a notice of the time for filing claims pursuant to Rule 3002(c)(5), the court may direct that notices
be mailed only to the entities specified in the preceding
sentence.
(i) Notices to committees.-Copies of all notices required
to be mailed pursuant to this rule shall be mailed to the
committees elected under §705 or appointed under § 1102 of
the Code or to their authorized agents. Notwithstanding
the foregoing subdivisions, the court may order that notices

1270

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

required by subdivision (a)(2), (3) and (6) of this rule be
transmitted to the United States trustee and be mailed only
to the committees elected under § 705 or appointed under
§ 1102 of the Code or to their authorized agents and to the
creditors and equity security holders who serve on the
trustee or debtor in possession and file a request that all
notices be mailed to them. A committee appointed under
§ 1114 shall receive copies of all notices required by subdivisions (a)(1), (a)(5), (b), (f)(2), and (f)(7), and such other notices
as the court may direct.
(k) Notices to United States trustee.-Unless the case is
a chapter 9 municipality case or unless the United States
trustee requests otherwise, the clerk, or some other person
as the court may direct, shall transmit to the United States
trustee notice of the matters described in subdivisions (a)(2),
(a)(3), (a)(4), (a)(8), (b), (f)(1), (f)(2), (f)(4), (f)(6), (f)(7), and
(f)(8) of this rule and notice of hearings on all applications
for compensation or reimbursement of expenses. Notices to
the United States trustee shall be transmitted within the
time prescribed in subdivision (a) or (b) of this rule. The
United States trustee shall also receive notice of any other
matter if such notice is requested by the United States
trustee or ordered by the court. Nothing in these rules
requires the clerk or any other person to transmit to the
United States trustee any notice, schedule, report, application or other document in a case under the Securities Investor Protection Act, 15 U. S. C. §78aaa et seq.
Rule 2015. Duty to keep records, make reports, and give
notice of case.
(b) Chapter 12 trustee and debtor in possession.-In a
chapter 12 family farmer's debt adjustment case, the debtor
in possession shall perform the duties prescribed in clauses
(2)-(4) of subdivision (a) of this rule and, if the court directs,
shall file and transmit to the United States trustee a com-

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

plete inventory of the property of the debtor within the time
fixed by the court. If the debtor is removed as debtor in
possession, the trustee shall perform the duties of the debtor
in possession prescribed in this paragraph.
(c) Chapter 13 trustee and debtor.
(1) Business cases.-In a chapter 13 individual's debt
adjustment case, when the debtor is engaged in business, the debtor shall perform the duties prescribed by
clauses (2)-(4) of subdivision (a) of this rule and, if the
court directs, shall file and transmit to the United States
trustee a complete inventory of the property of the
debtor within the time fixed by the court.
Rule 3002. Filingproof of claim or interest.
(a) Necessity for filing.-An unsecured creditor or an equity security holder must file a proof of claim or interest for
the claim or interest to be allowed, except as provided in
Rules 1019(3), 3003, 3004, and 3005.
(c) Time for filing.-In a chapter 7 liquidation, chapter 12
family farmer's debt adjustment, or chapter 13 individual's
debt adjustment case, a proof of claim is timely filed if it is
filed not later than 90 days after the first date set for the
meeting of creditors called under § 341(a) of the Code, except
as follows:
(1) A proof of claim filed by a governmental unit is
timely filed if it is filed not later than 180 days after the
date of the order for relief. On motion of a governmental unit before the expiration of such period and for
cause shown, the court may extend the time for filing of
a claim by the governmental unit.
Rule 3016. Filing of plan and disclosure statement in
Chapter 9 municipality and Chapter 11 reorganization cases.
(a) Identification of plan.-Every proposed plan and any
modification thereof shall be dated and, in a chapter 11 case,

1272

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

identified with the name of the entity or entities submitting
or filing it.
(b) Disclosurestatement.-In a chapter 9 or 11 case, a disclosure statement under §1125 or evidence showing compliance with § 1126(b) of the Code shall be filed with the plan
or within a time fixed by the court.
Rule 4004. Grant or denial of discharge.
(c) Grant of discharge.
(1) In a chapter 7 case, on expiration of the time fixed
for filing a complaint objecting to discharge and the time
fixed for filing a motion to dismiss the case pursuant to
Rule 1017(e), the court shall forthwith grant the discharge unless:
(a) the debtor is not an individual,
(b) a complaint objecting to the discharge has
been filed,
(c) the debtor has filed a waiver under
§ 727(a)(10),
(d) a motion to dismiss the case pursuant to Rule
1017(e) is pending,
(e) a motion to extend the time for filing a complaint objecting to discharge is pending, or
(f) the debtor has not paid in full the filing fee
prescribed by 28 U. S. C. §1930(a) and any other fee
prescribed by the Judicial Conference of the United
States under 28 U. S. C. § 1930(b) that is payable to
the clerk upon the commencement of a case under
the Code.
(2) Notwithstanding Rule 4004(c)(1), on motion of the
debtor, the court may defer the entry of an order granting a discharge for 30 days and, on motion within that
period, the court may defer entry of the order to a
date certain.

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

1273

Rule 5005. Filing and transmittalof papers.
(a) Filing.
(1) Place offiling.-The lists, schedules, statements,
proofs of claim or interest, complaints, motions, applications, objections and other papers required to be filed
by these rules, except as provided in 28 U. S. C. § 1409,
shall be filed with the clerk in the district where the
case under the Code is pending. The judge of that
court may permit the papers to be filed with the judge,
in which event the filing date shall be noted thereon, and
they shall be forthwith transmitted to the clerk. The
clerk shall not refuse to accept for filing any petition or
other paper presented for the purpose of filing solely
because it is not presented in proper form as required
by these rules or any local rules or practices.
(2) Filingby electronic means.-A court may by local
rule permit documents to be filed, signed, or verified
by electronic means that are consistent with technical
standards, if any, that the Judicial Conference of the
United States establishes. A document filed by electronic means in compliance with a local rule constitutes
a written paper for the purpose of applying these rules,
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure made applicable by
these rules, and § 107 of the Code.
Rule 7004. Process;service of summons, complaint.
(a) Summons; service; proof of service.-Rule 4(a), (b),
(c)(1), (d)(1), (e)-(j), (1), and (m) F. R. Civ. P. applies in adversary proceedings. Personal service pursuant to Rule 4(e)(j) F. R. Civ. P. may be made by any person at least 18 years
of age who is not a party, and the summons may be delivered
by the clerk to any such person.
(b) Service by first class mail.-Except as provided in
subdivision (h), in addition to the methods of service authorized by Rule 4(e)-(j) F. R. Civ. P., service may be made
within the United States by first class mail postage prepaid
as follows:

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

(1) Upon an individual other than an infant or incompetent, by mailing a copy of the summons and complaint
to the individual's dwelling house or usual place of abode
or to the place where the individual regularly conducts
a business or profession.
(2) Upon an infant or an incompetent person, by mailing a copy of the summons and complaint to the person
upon whom process is prescribed to be served by the
law of the state in which service is made when an action
is brought against such a defendant in the courts of general jurisdiction of that state. The summons and complaint in that case shall be addressed to the person required to be served at that person's dwelling house or
usual place of abode or at the place where the person
regularly conducts a business or profession.
(3) Upon a domestic or foreign corporation or upon
a partnership or other unincorporated association, by
mailing a copy of the summons and complaint to the attention of an officer, a managing or general agent, or
to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law
to receive service of process and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so
requires, by also mailing a copy to the defendant.
(4) Upon the United States, by mailing a copy of the
summons and complaint addressed to the civil process
clerk at the office of the United States attorney for the
district in which the action is brought and by mailing a
copy of the summons and complaint to the Attorney
General of the United States at Washington, District of
Columbia, and in any action attacking the validity of an
order of an officer or an agency of the United States not
made a party, by also mailing a copy of the summons
and complaint to that officer or agency. The court shall
allow a reasonable time for service pursuant to this subdivision for the purpose of curing the failure to mail a
copy of the summons and complaint to multiple officers,
agencies, or corporations of the United States if the
plaintiff has mailed a copy of the summons and complaint

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

1275

either to the civil process clerk at the office of the United
States attorney or to the Attorney General of the
United States.
(5) Upon any officer or agency of the United States,
by mailing a copy of the summons and complaint to the
United States as prescribed in paragraph (4) of this subdivision and also to the officer or agency. If the agency
is a corporation, the mailing shall be as prescribed in
paragraph (3) of this subdivision of this rule. The court
shall allow a reasonable time for service pursuant to this
subdivision for the purpose of curing the failure to mail a
copy of the summons and complaint to multiple officers,
agencies, or corporations of the United States if the
plaintiff has mailed a copy of the summons and complaint
either to the civil process clerk at the office of the United
States attorney or to the Attorney General of the United
States. If the United States trustee is the trustee in
the case and service is made upon the United States
trustee solely as trustee, service may be made as prescribed in paragraph (10) of this subdivision of this rule.
(6) Upon a state or municipal corporation or other
governmental organization thereof subject to suit, by
mailing a copy of the summons and complaint to the person or office upon whom process is prescribed to be
served by the law of the state in which service is made
when an action is brought against such a defendant in
the courts of general jurisdiction of that state, or in the
absence of the designation of any such person or office
by state law, then to the chief executive officer thereof.
(7) Upon a defendant of any class referred to in paragraph (1) or (3) of this subdivision of this rule, it is also
sufficient if a copy of the summons and complaint is
mailed to the entity upon whom service is prescribed to
be served by any statute of the United States or by the
law of the state in which service is made when an action
is brought against such a defendant in the court of general jurisdiction of that state.

1276

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

(8) Upon any defendant, it is also sufficient if a copy
of the summons and complaint is mailed to an agent of
such defendant authorized by appointment or by law to
receive service of process, at the agent's dwelling house
or usual place of abode or at the place where the agent
regularly carries on a business or profession and, if the
authorization so requires, by mailing also a copy of the
summons and complaint to the defendant as provided in
this subdivision.
(9) Upon the debtor, after a petition has been filed by
or served upon the debtor and until the case is dismissed
or closed, by mailing a copy of the summons and complaint to the debtor at the address shown in the petition
or statement of affairs or to such other address as the
debtor may designate in a filed writing and, if the debtor
is represented by an attorney, to the attorney at the
attorney's post-office address.
(10) Upon the United States trustee, when the United
States trustee is the trustee in the case and service is
made upon the United States trustee solely as trustee,
by mailing a copy of the summons and complaint to an
office of the United States trustee or another place designated by the United States trustee in the district
where the case under the Code is pending.
(c) Service by publication.-If a party to an adversary
proceeding to determine or protect rights in property in the
custody of the court cannot be served as provided in Rule
4(e)-(j) F. R. Civ. P. or subdivision (b) of this rule, the court
may order the summons and complaint to be served by mailing copies thereof by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
party's last known address, and by at least one publication
in such manner and form as the court may direct.
(d) Nationwide service of process.-The summons and
complaint and all other process except a subpoena may be
served anywhere in the United States.
(e) Summons: time limit for service.-If service is made
pursuant to Rule 4(e)-(j) F. R. Civ. P. it shall be made by
delivery of the summons and complaint within 10 days fol-

