OCTOBER TERM, 1995
Syllabus

UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS
UNION LOCAL 751 v. BROWN GROUP, INC.,
DBA BROWN SHOE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT
No. 95-340. Argued February 20, 1996-Decided May 13, 1996
Petitioner union filed this suit, alleging that respondent company began to
lay off workers in connection with the closing of one of its plants before
giving the union the closing notice required by the Worker Adjustment
and Retraining Notification Act (WARN Act), and seeking backpay for
each of its affected members. The District Court dismissed the complaint, and the Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that the suit was
barred because the union failed to meet the third part of the test for
determining associational standing.
Held
1. The WARN Act grants a union authority to sue for damages on
behalf of its members, North Star Steel Co. v. Thomas, 515 U. S. 29,
31; the writ of certiorari therefore was not improvidently granted.
Pp. 548-550.
2. The union has standing to bring this action. Pp. 551-558.
(a) Under modern associational standing doctrine, an organization
may sue to redress its members' injuries when: "(a) its members would
otherwise have standing to sue in their own right; (b) the interests it
seeks to protect are germane to the organization's purpose; and (c) neither the claim asserted nor the relief requested requires the participation of individual members in the lawsuit." Hunt v. Washington State
Apple Advertising Comm'n, 432 U. S. 333, 343. The requirement of
individual participation has been understood to preclude associational
standing when an organization seeks damages on behalf of its members.
The question here is whether a bar to the union's suit found in this
third prong of the test is constitutional and absolute, or prudential and
malleable by Congress. The Court of Appeals apparently concluded
that the test's third prong is of constitutional character, for it denied
standing even though the WARN Act permits the union to sue for its
members' damages. Pp. 551-554.
(b) The test's first prong is grounded in Article III as an element of
the constitutional case or controversy requirement. Resort to general
principles, however, leads to the conclusion that the third prong is a
prudential impediment that Congress may abrogate. Hunt's require-

Cite as: 517 U. S. 544 (1996)
Opinion of the Court
ment that an organization suing as representative include at least one
member with standing to present, in his or her own right, the claim
pleaded by the association is an Article III necessity for the association's
representative suit. Hunt's second prong is complementary to the first,
because it raises an assurance that the association's litigators will themselves have a stake in the resolution of the dispute, and thus be in a
position to serve as the defendant's natural adversary. But once an
association has satisfied Hunt's first and second prongs assuring adversarial vigor in pursuing a claim for which member Article III standing
exists, it is difficult to see a constitutional necessity for anything more.
The third prong is best seen as focusing on matters of administrative
convenience and efficiency, not on elements of a case or controversy.
Circumstantial evidence of that prong's prudential nature is seen in
the wide variety of other contexts in which a statute, federal rule,
or accepted common-law practice permits one person to sue on behalf
of another, even where damages are sought. See, e.g., 42 U.S. C.
§2000e-5(f)(1). Pp. 554-558.
50 F. 3d 1426, reversed and remanded.
SOUTER,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Laurence Gold argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on the briefs were George Murphy, Renee L. Bowser, Marsha S. Berzon, and JonathanP. Hiatt.
Alan Jenkins argued the cause for the United States as
amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on the brief were
Solicitor GeneralDays, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler,
Thomas S. Williamson, Jr., Allen H. Feldman, Nathaniel
. Spiller,and Mark S. Flynn.
Thomas C. Walsh argued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Michael G. Biggers, James N. Foster,

Jr., Michelle M. Cain, and Robert D. Pickle.*
opinion of the Court.
The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act
(WARN Act or Act), 102 Stat. 890, 29 U. S. C. § 2101 et seq.,
obligates certain employers to give workers or their union
JUSTICE SOUTER delivered the

*Kary L. Moss filed a brief for the American Federation of Government
Employees et al. as amici curiaeurging reversal.

546

FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS v.
BROWN GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

60 days' notice before a plant closing or mass layoff. If an
employer fails to give the notice, the employees may sue for
backpay for each day of the violation, and, in the alternative,
the union is ostensibly authorized to sue on their behalf.
See North Star Steel Co. v. Thomas, 515 U. S. 29 (1995); Part
II, infra.
Permitting a union to sue under the Act on behalf of its
employee-members raises a question of standing. In Hunt
v. Washington State Apple Advertising Comm'n, 432 U. S.
333 (1977), we described a three-prong test for an association's standing to sue based on injury to one of its members.
The third element, at issue here, would bar such a suit when
"the claim asserted [or] the relief requested requires the participation of individual members in the lawsuit." Id., at 343.
Relying on Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490 (1975), Hunt held
that "individual participation" is not normally necessary
when an association seeks prospective or injunctive relief for
its members, but indicated that such participation would be
required in an action for damages to an association's members, thus suggesting that an association's action for damages
running solely to its members would be barred for want of
the association's standing to sue. See Hunt, supra, at 343.
The questions presented here are whether, in enacting
the WARN Act, Congress intended to abrogate this otherwise applicable standing limitation so as to permit the
union to sue for damages running to its workers, and, if it did,
whether it had ihe constitutional authority to do so. We
answer yes to each question.
I
On January 17, 1992, respondent Brown Shoe Company
wrote to a representative of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, stating that Brown Shoe
would shut down its Dixon, Missouri, plant and permanently
lay off 277 employees beginning on March 20, 1992. App.
62-63. The complaint filed by petitioner United Food and

Cite as: 517 U. S. 544 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

Commercial Workers Union Local 751 charged that Brown
Shoe's representations were false insofar as they are relevant here, and that in fact, even before sending the letter,
Brown Shoe had begun the layoffs, which continued through
February and into March. App. 8-9.1 The union accordingly claimed a violation of the WARN Act and sought the
statutory remedy of 60-days' backpay for each of its affected members.
The District Court dismissed the complaint under Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6), saying that "when an organization seeks to recover monetary relief on behalf of its
members, courts have found that such claims necessarily require participation of individual members in the suit." 820
F. Supp. 1192, 1193-1194 (ED Mo. 1993). The Court of Ap-

peals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed, concluding that "[e]ach
union member who wishes to recover WARN Act damages

from Brown Shoe must participate in the suit so that his or
her right to damages can be determined and the quantum
of damages can be calculated by the court on the basis of
particularized proof. Therefore, the union cannot meet the
third part of the Hunt test and is precluded from asserting
associational standing." 50 F. 3d 1426, 1432 (1995).2 We
granted certiorari, 516 U. S. 930 (1995), and now reverse.
1

Because the District Court dismissed the complaint, for the purposes

of deciding this appeal we assume the truth of this allegation. Nor do we
reach the merits of, or any other issue about, the union's further complaint
that Brown Shoe's letter was defective because it was sent to an individual
who worked for the International. The complaint alleges that United
Food Local 751, not the International or its employee, is the exclusive
representative of the affected employees and is thus statutorily entitled
to notice of the closing and mass layoff.
2The District Court had also denied the union's motion to amend its
complaint to add employees as plaintiffs. App. to Pet. for Cert. 18a-19a.
The Court of Appeals held that the District Court's decision in this respect
did not represent an abuse of its discretion. 50 F. 3d, at 1432. The correctness of this determination is outside the scope of the questions presented here. See Pet. for Cert. i.

548

FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS v.
BROWN GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

II

At the outset, Brown Shoe argues that the WARN Act
grants a union no authority to sue for damages on behalf of
its members. Because the question on which we granted
certiorari (whether Congress has the constitutional authority
to alter the third prong of the associational standing enquiry)
assumes that the WARN Act does grant the union such authority, Brown Shoe urges us to declare the writ of certiorari
improvidently granted. In North Star Steel, however, we
noted, contrary to Brown Shoe's position, that "[t]he class of
plaintiffs" who may sue for backpay under the WARN Act
"includes aggrieved employees (or their unions, as representatives)." 515 U. S., at 31, and on further consideration
we have no doubt that we were reading the statute correctly.
The key requirement of the Act is found in §2102, which
prohibits an employer from ordering "a plant closing or mass
layoff until the end of a 60-day period" running from the date
of the employer's written notice of the closing or layoff "(1)
to each representative of the affected employees as of the
time of the notice or, if there is no such representative at
that time, to each affected employee," and "(2) to the State
dislocated worker unit... and the chief elected official of the
unit of local government within which such closing or layoff
is to occur." 29 U. S. C. § 2102(a). Congress defined the
"representative" to which §2102(a)(1) refers as the employees' union, "an exclusive representative of employees within
the meaning of section 9(a) or 8(f) of the National Labor
Relations Act (29 U. S. C. 159(a), 158(f)) or section 2 of the
Railway Labor Act (45 U. S. C. 152)." 102 Stat. 890, 29
U. S. C. §2101(a)(4).
Enforcement of the § 2102 notice requirement is addressed
in § 2104(a), the following provisions of which answer Brown
Shoe's argument. Section 2104(a)(1) makes a violating employer liable to "each aggrieved employee" for backpay and

Cite as: 517 U. S. 544 (1996)

Opinion of the Court

benefits for each day of the violation. 3 Section 2104(a)(5)
provides that "[a] person seeking to enforce such liability,
including a representative of employees ... aggrieved under
paragraph (1) ... , may sue either for such person or for
other persons similarly situated, or both, [in an appropriate
district court]."
Since the union is the "representative of employees...
aggrieved," it is a person who may sue on behalf of the "persons similarly situated" in order to "enforce such liability."
"[S]uch liability" must refer to liability under §2104, since
its remedies are exclusive. See 29 U. S. C. § 2104(b). Because the section makes no provision for liability to the union
itself, any "such liability" sought by the union must (so far
as concerns us here) be liability to its employee-members, so
long as they can be understood to be "persons similarly situated" for the purposes of the Act. We believe they may
be so understood, since each is aggrieved by the employer's
failure to give timely notice.
Brown Shoe's alternative construction is unconvincing. It
contends that a previous bill would have imposed civil liability on employers who failed to notify the union of a plant
Stat. 893, as set forth in 29 U. S. C. §2104(a)(1):
"Any employer who orders a plant closing or mass layoff in violation of
section 2102 of this title shall be liable to each aggrieved employee who
suffers an employment loss as a result of such closing or layoff for"(A) back pay for each day of violation at a rate of compensation not
less than the higher of"(i) the average regular rate received by such employee during the last
3 years of the employee's employment; or
"(ii) the final regular rate received by such employee; and
"(B) benefits under an employee benefit plan..., including the cost of
medical expenses incurred during the employment loss which would have
been covered under an employee benefit plan if the employment loss had
not occurred.
"Such liability shall be calculated for the period of the violation, up to a
maximum of 60 days, but in no event for more than one-half the number
of days the employee was employed by the employer."
3102

550

FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS v.

BROWN GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

closing or mass layoff, and would have permitted the union
to sue to recover a penalty where an employer failed to provide the required notice. See S. 538, 100th Cong., 1st Sess.
(1987). In the ultimately enacted version of the legislation,
Congress eliminated this provision, with the result that the
WARN Act no longer speaks to the "rights and welfare of
unions," Brief for Respondent 12. Brown Shoe's argument
is that the class of persons "similarly situated" is the class
entitled to sue for damages, so that the elimination of the
union's entitlement to a civil penalty requires the conclusion
that the union is no longer "similarly situated" to "employees
... aggrieved under paragraph (1)," and thus not permitted
to sue under the Act.
The flaw in this argument is that it would force us to conclude that the provision for suits by unions is attributable
only to congressional inadvertence, whereas inadvertence is
not the only possible, or even plausible, explanation for the
authorization. For one, the statutory reference to persons
"similarly situated" can very readily be understood to mean
the class of persons to whom notice is owed but not given.
In this respect, the union and its members are certainly persons "similarly situated." Brown Shoe's argument also fails
to explain why Congress would necessarily have intended to
eliminate the union's power to sue on behalf of members (as
Brown Shoe assumes the union could have done prior to the
amendment) just because the union was no longer entitled to
a penalty in its own right. The argument for Brown Shoe's
preferred construction simply rests on one speculative possibility in opposing a straightforward reading of the provision
that a union may bring suit on behalf of its members, who
are "employees ... aggrieved under paragraph (1)." Speculation loses, for the more natural reading of the statute's
text, which would give effect to all of its provisions, always
prevails over a mere suggestion to disregard or ignore duly
enacted law as legislative oversight.

Cite as: 517 U. S. 544 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

III

This brings us to the primary question in the case:
whether the union has standing to bring this action on behalf
of its members. 4 Article III of the Constitution limits the
federal judicial power to "Cases" or "Controversies," thereby
entailing as an "irreducible minimum" that there be (1) an
injury in fact, (2) a causal relationship between the injury
and the challenged conduct, and (3) a likelihood that the injury will be redressed by a favorable decision. See, e. g.,
NortheasternFla. Chapter,Associated Gen. Contractors of
America v. Jacksonville, 508 U. S. 656, 663 (1993); Valley
Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc., 454 U. S. 464, 472 (1982).
Supplementing these constitutional requirements, the prudential doctrine of standing has come to encompass "several
judicially self-imposed limits on the exercise of federal jurisdiction." See Allen v. Wright, 468 U. S. 737, 751 (1984); see
also Flast v. Cohen, 392 U. S. 83, 97 (1968). The question
here is whether a bar to the union's suit found in the test for
so-called associational standing is constitutional and absolute, or prudential and malleable by Congress.
A
The notion that an organization might have standing to
assert its members' injury has roots in NAACP v. Alabama
ex rel. Patterson,357 U. S.449, 459 (1958), where the Court
noted that for the purpose of determining the scope of the

'The union also argues that it has standing because it suffered direct
injury. The Court of Appeals held that the union lacked standing to assert its direct injury because neither backpay to the employees nor its
"catch-all prayer for relief" would redress the union's injury. 50 F. 3d
1426, 1431, n. 7 (CA8 1995). The union argues here that its injury would
be redressed because an award of damages to the employees would deter
future violations and would facilitate the union's role in assisting its members. In light of our resolution of the associational standing question, we
do not have occasion today to address this issue.

552

FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS v.
BROWN GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's (NAACP's) rights as a litigant, the association "and its
members are in every practical sense identical." The Court
accordingly permitted the NAACP to rely on violations of
its members' First Amendment associational rights in suing
to bar the State of Alabama from compelling disclosure of the
association's membership lists. See also Joint Anti-Fascist
Refugee Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U. S. 123, 183-187 (1951)
(Jackson, J., concurring); Barrows v. Jackson, 346 U. S. 249,
255-259 (1953); NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 428 (1963);
NationalMotor FreightTraffic Assn., Inc. v. United States,
372 U. S. 246, 247 (1963); Sierra Club v. Morton, 405 U. S.
727, 739 (1972).
The modern doctrine of associational standing, under
which an organization may sue to redress its members' injuries, even without a showing of injury to the association
itself, emerges from a trilogy of cases. We first squarely
recognized an organization's standing to bring such a suit
in Warth v. Seldin, 422 U. S. 490 (1975).
"The association must allege that its members, or any
one of them, are suffering immediate or threatened injury as a result of the challenged action of the sort that
would make out a justiciable case had the members
themselves brought suit.... [S]o long as the nature of
the claim and of the relief sought does not make the
individual participation of each injured party indispensable to proper resolution of the cause, the association
may be an appropriate representative of its members,
entitled to invoke the court's jurisdiction." Id., at 511.
Warth's requirements for associational standing were elaborated in Hunt. There we held that the Washington State
Apple Advertising Commission, a state agency whose statutory charge was to promote the State's apple industry, had
standing to bring a dormant Commerce Clause challenge to a
North Carolina statute forbidding the display of Washington

Cite as: 517 U. S. 544 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

State apple grades on apple containers. Relying on Warth,
the Hunt Court stated a three-prong associational standing
test:
"[We have recognized that an association has standing
to bring suit on behalf of its members when: (a) its members would otherwise have standing to sue in their own
right; (b) the interests it seeks to protect are germane
to the organization's purpose; and (c) neither the claim
asserted nor the relief requested requires the participation of individual members in the lawsuit." 432 U. S.,
at 343.
Finally, in Automobile Workers v. Brock, 477 U. S.274
(1986), we held that a union had standing to challenge an
agency's construction of a statute providing benefits to workers who lost their jobs because of competition from imports.
The union there did not allege any injury to itself, nor was it
argued that the members' associational rights were affected.
Reaffirming and applying the three-part test emerging from
Warth and Hunt, we held that the union had standing to
bring the suit. 477 U. S., at 281-288. See also Pennell v.
San Jose, 485 U. S. 1, 7, and n. 3 (1988).
B
The Court of Appeals here concluded that the union's
members would have had standing to sue on their own (the
first prong), and recognized that the interests the union
sought to protect were germane to its purpose (the second
prong). But it denied the union's claim of standing because
it found that the relief sought by the union, damages on behalf of its members, would require the participation of individual members in the lawsuit. 50 F. 3d, at 1431. It relied
on the statement in Warth that "[i]f in a proper case the
association seeks a declaration, injunction, or some other
form of prospective relief, it can reasonably be supposed that
the remedy, if granted, will inure to the benefit of those

554

FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS v.
BROWN GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

members of the association actually injured. Indeed, in all
cases in which we have expressly recognized standing in associations to represent their members, the relief sought has
been of this kind." 422 U. S., at 515. These and later precedents have been understood to preclude associational standing when an organization seeks damages on behalf of its
members. See, e. g., Telecommunications Research & Action Center v. Allnet Communication Services, Inc., 806
F. 2d 1093, 1094-1095 (CADC 1986) ("[L]ower federal courts
have consistently rejected association assertions of standing
to seek monetary, as distinguished from injunctive or declaratory, relief on behalf of the organization's members") (collecting cases).5
One court has suggested that this bar is of constitutional
magnitude, see NationalAssn. of Realtors v. NationalReal
Estate Assn., Inc., 894 F. 2d 937, 941 (CA7 1990) ("[A]ssociations have been held to have standing under Article III of
the Constitution to seek injunctive relief-but never damages"). The Court of Appeals here apparently agreed with
that suggestion, and so dismissed for lack of union standing
despite the WARN Act's provision permitting the union to
sue. We therefore take up the question whether the third
prong of the associational standing enquiry is of constitutional character.
C
Although Warth noted that the test's first requirement,
that at least one of the organization's members would have
standing to sue on his own, is grounded on Article III as
an element of "the constitutional requirement of a case or
5

United Food argues that "given the simplified nature of the monetary

relief here provided," Brief for Petitioner 44, n. 17, the third prong of the
Hunt test is satisfied despite its claim for damages. In light of our conclusion that in the WARN Act Congress has abrogated the third prong of
the associational standing test, we need not decide here whether, absent
congressional action, the third prong would bar a "simplified" claim for
damages.

Cite as: 517 U. S. 544 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

controversy," Warth, supra,at 511, our cases have not otherwise clearly disentangled the constitutional from the prudential strands of the associational standing test. Cf. Valley
Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc., 454 U.S., at 471 ("[Ilt has
not always been clear in the opinions of this Court whether
particular features of the 'standing' requirement have been
required by Art. III ex proprio vigore, or whether they are
requirements that the Court itself has erected and which
were not compelled by the language of the Constitution");
June, The Structure of Standing Requirements for Citizen
Suits and the Scope of Congressional Power, 24 Envtl. L.
761, 793 (1994) (noting uncertainty "whether requirements
such as [associational] standing are constitutional or prudential in nature"). Resort to general principles, however,
leads us to say that the associational standing test's third
prong is a prudential one.
There are two ways in which Hunt addresses the Article
III requirements of injury in fact, causal connection to the
defendant's conduct, and redressability. First and most obviously, it guarantees the satisfaction of these elements by
requiring an organization suing as representative to include
at least one member with standing to present, in his or her
own right, the claim (or the type of claim) pleaded by the
association. As Hunt's most direct address to Article III
standing, this first prong can only be seen as itself an Article III necessity for an association's representative suit.
Cf. Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Organization,426
U. S.26, 40 (1976) (the association "can establish standing
only as representatives of those of their members who have
been injured in fact, and thus could have brought suit in their
own right"). Hunt's second prong is, at the least, complementary to the first, for its demand that an association plaintiff be organized for a purpose germane to the subject of
its member's claim raises an assurance that the association's
litigators will themselves have a stake in the resolution of

556

FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS v.
BROWN GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

the dispute, and thus be in a position to serve as the defendant's natural adversary.6 But once an association has satisfied Hunts first and second prongs assuring adversarial
vigor in pursuing a claim for which member Article III
standing exists, it is difficult to see a constitutional necessity
for anything more. See generally Lujan v. Defenders of
Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560-561 (1992). To see Hunt's third
prong as resting on less than constitutional necessity is not,
of course, to rob it of its value. It may well promote adversarial intensity. It may guard against the hazard of litigating a case to the damages stage only to find the plaintiff
lacking detailed records or the evidence necessary to show
the harm with sufficient specificity. And it may hedge
against any risk that the damages recovered by the association will fail to find their way into the pockets of the members on whose behalf injury is claimed. But these considerations are generally on point whenever one plaintiff sues for
6Because the union is statutorily entitled to receive notice under the
WARN Act, and because of the paramount role, under federal labor law,
that unions play in protecting the interests of their members, it is clear
that this test is satisfied here. We therefore need not decide whether this
prong is prudential in the sense that Congress may definitively declare
that a particular relation is sufficient.
The germaneness of a suit to an association's purpose may, of course,
satisfy a standing requirement without necessarily rendering the association's representation adequate to justify giving the association's suit preclusive effect as against an individual ostensibly represented. See generally Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts, 472 U. S. 797 (1985); Matsushita
Elec. IndustrialCo. v. Epstein, 516 U. S. 367, 895-399 (1996) (GINSBURG,
J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). See also Automobile Workers v. Brock, 477 U. S. 274, 289 (1986) ('[A]n association might prove an
inadequate representative of its members' legal interests for a number of
reasons"); Note, Associational Standing and Due Process: The Need for an
Adequate Representation Scrutiny, 61 B. U. L. Rev. 174 (1981). In this
case, of course, no one disputes the adequacy of the union, selected by the
employees following procedures governed by a detailed body of federal
law and serving as the duly authorized collective-bargaining representative of the employees, as an associational representative. See generally
NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co., 395 U. S. 575 (1969).

Cite as: 517 U. S. 544 (1996)
Opinion of the Court

another's injury. And although we noted in Flast that "a
litigant will ordinarily not be permitted to assert the rights
of absent third parties," 392 U. S., at 99, n. 20; see also Valley
Forge, supra, at 474, we recognized in Allen v. Wright, 468
U. S., at 751, that "the general prohibition on a litigant's raising another person's legal rights" is a "judicially self-imposed
limi[t] on the exercise of federal jurisdiction," not a constitutional mandate. Indeed, the entire doctrine of "representational standing," of which the notion of "associational standing" is only one strand, rests on the premise that in certain
circumstances, particular relationships (recognized either by
common-law tradition 7 or by statute 8)are sufficient to rebut
the background presumption (in the statutory context, about
Congress's intent) that litigants may not assert the rights
of absent third parties. Hence the third prong of the associational standing test is best seen as focusing on these
matters of administrative convenience and efficiency, not on
elements of a case or controversy within the meaning of
the Constitution.
Circumstantial evidence of the prudential nature of this
requirement is seen in the wide variety of other contexts in
which a statute, federal rule, or accepted common-law practice permits one person to sue on behalf of another, even
where damages are sought. "[R]epresentative damages litigation is common-from class actions under Fed. R. Civ. P.
23(b)(3) to suits by trustees representing hundreds of creditors in bankruptcy to parens patriae actions by state governments to litigation by and against executors of decedents'
estates." In re Oil Spill by the Amoco Cadiz off the Coast
of France on Mar. 16, 1978, 954 F. 2d 1279, 1319 (CA7 1992)
(per curiam). In addition, §706(f)(1) of Title VII of the
7See, e. g., Whitmore v. Arkansas, 495 U. S. 149 (1990) (recognizing a
next-friend's standing).
8
See, e.g., Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 78 Stat. 253, as
amended, 42 U. S. C. § 2000e et seq., and the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938, 52 Stat. 1060, as amended, 29 U. S. C. §201 et seq.

558

FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS v.
BROWN GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C. § 2000e-5(f)(1), expressly
authorizes the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
to sue for backpay on behalf of employees who are victims
of employment discrimination, General Telephone Co. of
Northwest v. EEOC, 446 U. S. 318 (1980), and the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq., contains a
comparable provision permitting the Secretary of Labor to
sue for the recovery of unpaid minimum wages and overtime
compensation, 29 U. S. C. § 216(c). If these provisions for
representative actions were generally resulting in nonadversarial actions that failed to resolve the claims of the individuals ultimately interested, their disservice to the core
Article III requirements would be no secret. There is no
reason to expect that union actions under the WARN Act
portend any greater Article III incursions.
D
Because Congress authorized the union to sue for its members' damages, and because the only impediment to that suit
is a general limitation, judicially fashioned and prudentially
imposed, there is no question that Congress may abrogate
the impediment. As we noted in Warth, prudential limitations are rules of "judicial self-governance" that "Congress
may remove.., by statute." 422 U. S., at 509. It has done
so without doubt in this instance.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the case is remanded for proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
It is so ordered.

