AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure
were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April
23, 1996, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. ยง2072, and were reported to Congress by
THE CMEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see
post, p. 1256. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. ยง2074, such amendments shall take effect
no earlier than December 1 of the year in which they are transmitted to
Congress unless otherwise provided by law.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure and
the amendments thereto, see 389 U.S. 1063, 398 U.S. 971, 401 U.S.
1029, 406 U. S. 1005, 441 U. S. 978, 475 U. S. 1153, 490 U. S. 1125, 500 U. S.
1007, 507 U. S. 1059, 511 U. S. 1155, and 514 U. S. 1137.

1255

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

23, 1996

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled.
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States, I
have the honor to submit to the Congress the amendments
to the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure that have been
adopted by the Supreme Court of the United States pursuant
to Section 2072 of Title 28, United States Code.
Accompanying these rules are excerpts from the report of
the Judicial Conference of the United States containing the
Advisory Committee notes submitted to the Court for its
consideration pursuant to Section 331 of Title 28, United
States Code.
Sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 23, 1996
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure be, and
they hereby are, amended by including therein amendments
to Appellate Rules 21, 25, and 26.
[See infra, pp. 1259-1262.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Appellate Procedure shall take effect on December 1, 1996,
and shall govern all proceedings in appellate cases thereafter
commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in appellate cases then pending.
3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and hereby is, authorized
to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments to
the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2072 of Title 28, United States
Code.

1257

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

Rule 21. Writs of mandamus and prohibition, and other
extraordinarywrits.
(a) Mandamus or prohibitionto a court: petition,filing,
service, and docketing.
(1) A party petitioning for a writ of mandamus or prohibition directed to a court shall file a petition with the
circuit clerk with proof of service on all parties to the
proceeding in the trial court. The party shall also provide a copy to the trial court judge. All parties to the
proceeding in the trial court other than the petitioner
are respondents for all purposes.
(2)(A) The petition shall be titled "In re [name of
petitioner]."
(B) The petition shall state:
(i) the relief sought;
(ii) the issues presented;
(iii) the facts necessary to understand the issues
presented by the petition; and
(iv) the reasons why the writ should issue.
(C) The petition shall include copies of any order or
opinion or parts of the record that may be essential to
understand the matters set forth in the petition.
(3) When the clerk receives the prescribed docket fee,
the clerk shall docket the petition and submit it to the
court.
(b) Denial;order directing answer; briefs; precedence.
(1) The court may deny the petition without an answer. Otherwise, it shall order the respondent, if any,
to answer within a fixed time.
1259

1260

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

(2) The clerk shall serve the order to respond on all
persons directed to respond.
(3) Two or more respondents may answer jointly.
(4) The court of appeals may invite or order the trial
court judge to respond or may invite an amicus curiae
to do so. The trial court judge may request permission
to respond but may not respond unless invited or ordered to do so by the court of appeals.
(5) If briefing or oral argument is required, the clerk
shall advise the parties, and when appropriate, the trial
court judge or amicus curiae.
(6) The proceeding shall be given preference over
ordinary civil cases.
(7) The circuit clerk shall send a copy of the final
disposition to the trial court judge.
(c) Other extraordinary writs.-Application for an extraordinary writ other than one of those provided for in subdivisions (a) and (b) of this rule shall be made by filing a
petition with the circuit clerk with proof of service on the
respondents. Proceedings on such application shall conform, so far as is practicable, to the procedure prescribed in
subdivisions (a) and (b) of this rule.
(d) Form of papers; number of copies.-All papers may
be typewritten. An original and three copies shall be filed
unless the court requires the filing of a different number by
local rule or by order in a particular case.
Rule 25. Filing,proof offiling, service, and proof of service.
(a) Filing.
(1) Filing with the clerk.-A paper required or permitted to be fied in a court of appeals shall be fied with
the clerk.
(2) Filing.method and timeliness.
(A) In general.-Filingmay be accomplished by mail
addressed to the clerk, but filing is not timely unless the
clerk receives the papers within the time fixed for filing.

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

1261

(B) A brief or appendix.-A brief or appendix is
timely filed, however, if on or before the last day for
filing, it is:
(i) mailed to the clerk by First-Class Mail, or
other class of mail that is at least as expeditious,
postage prepaid; or
(ii) dispatched to the clerk for delivery within 3
calendar days by a third-party commercial carrier.
(C) Inmate filing.-A paper filed by an inmate confined in an institution is timely fied if deposited in the
institution's internal mail system on or before the last
day for filing. Timely filing of a paper by an inmate
confined in an institution may be shown by a notarized
statement or declaration (in compliance with 28 U. S. C.
ยง 1746) setting forth the date of deposit and stating that
first-class postage has been prepaid.
(D) Electronic filing.-A court of appeals may by
local rule permit papers to be filed, signed, or verified
by electronic means that are consistent with technical
standards, if any, that the Judicial Conference of the
United States establishes. A paper fied by electronic
means in compliance with a local rule constitutes a written paper for the purpose of applying these rules.
(3) Filing a motion with a judge.-If a motion requests relief that may be granted by a single judge, the
judge may permit the motion to be fied with the judge;
the judge shall note the filing date on the motion and
give it to the clerk.
(4) Clerk's refusal of documents.-The clerk shall not
refuse to accept for filing any paper presented for that
purpose solely because it is not presented in proper form
as required by these rules or by any local rules or
practices.
(c) Manner of service.-Service may be personal, by mail,
or by third-party commercial carrier for delivery within 3
calendar days. When reasonable considering such factors as
the immediacy of the relief sought, distance, and cost, service

1262

RULES OF APPELLATE PROCEDURE

on a party shall be by a manner at least as expeditious as
the manner used to fie the paper with the court. Personal
service includes delivery of the copy to a responsible person
at the office of counsel. Service by mail or by commercial
carrier is complete on mailing or delivery to the carrier.
(d) Proof of service; filing.-A paper presented for filing
shall contain an acknowledgment of service by the person
served or proof of service in the form of a statement of the
date and manner of service, of the name of the person served,
and of the addresses to which the papers were mailed or at
which they were delivered, certified by the person who made
service. Proof of service may appear on or be affixed to the
papers filed. When a brief or appendix is filed by mailing
or dispatch in accordance with Rule 25(a)(2)(B), the proof of
service shall also state the date and manner by which the
document was mailed or dispatched to the clerk.
Rule 26. Computation and extension of time.
(c) Additional time after service.-When a party is required or permitted to act within a prescribed period after
service of a paper upon that party, 3 calendar days are added
to the prescribed period unless the paper is delivered on the
date of service stated in the proof of service.

