DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

889

Ba/ancev. Forsyth et-al.

The decree of the Circuit Court iust therefore be reversed,
and the case remande to the court, with directions to dismiss
the appeal for want of jurisdiction.,.The District Court can
then proceed to pass a final decree,-if that has not been already
done; and from that decree any party who may think himself
aggrieved may appeal to the Circuit Court, and from the final
decree of that court to this, where the sum in controversy is
large enough to give jurisdiction to the reipective courts upon
such appeals.
This view of the subject makes i unnecessary to examine
whether the amount in controversy between the parties in this
appeal is over $2,000; for their respective rights have not been
judicially decided upon in the Circuit Court, for want ofjurisiiction, as above stated, when it acted upon the-controversy.

CHARLES BALLANCE, APPELLANT, v. ROBERT FORSYTH, LUCIENE
DuMAIN, .AND ANTOINE R. Bouis.
The court again decides that consent of parties cannot give jurisdiction to this
court where the law d'es not giv it; but leave is granted to the paintiff in error to withdraw the transcript, and use it so as to bring his case legally before this court.

THIs was an appeal from the. Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of Ilhinois.
It was dismissed, and a motion made to reinstate it, under
the circumstances stated in the opinion of the. court.
Mr. Chief Justice T.NEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was dismissed on the 20th of Decembe last, because it did not appear that an appeal had been taken in the
District Court. A motion has now been made to reinstate
the. case, and, in support of that motion, a written agreement,
signed by the counsel for the appellant and appellee, has been
filed, consenting to reinstate the case, to waive all irregularitiesi and to try the case on the merits.
But the consent of parties cannot give jurisdiction to this

SUPREME COURT.
.3fason v. Gamble el al.

court, where the law does not give it. And, without an appeal
taken in the District Court, this court has no jurisdiction, and
the consent of parties cannot cure the defect. The motion is
therefore overruled.
But if the plaintiff in error desires to supplv the omission,
and take an appeal in-the District Court, and bring hia case
legally before us, he has leave, in order to save expense, to
withdraw the transcript now filed, and to use it upon his appeal, leaving a receipt for it with the-clerk of this court.

JOHN

T. MASON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V. JOSEPH

C. GAMBLE AND

DAVID GAMBLE.
The act of Congress passed on the 3d of May, 1844, (5 Stat. at L., 658,) authorizes a writ of error, at the instance of either party, upon a final judgment in a
Circuit Court in any civil action brought by the United States for the enforcement of the revenue laws, or for the collection of duties due or alleged to be
due, without regard to the sum or value in controversy.
But this law does not include a case where an action was brought against the
collector for the return of duties paid under protest, and where the recovery
was for aless sum than two thousand dollars.
Such a case must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from"the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
A motion was made by Mr. Campbell to dismiss the writ of
error for want of jurisdiction, which was opposed by -Mr.Black,
(Attorney General.)
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made to dismiss this case for want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that the sum in dispute does not
exceed $2,000.
The case is this: The plaintiff in error is the collector of the
port of Baltimore, and, as such, demanded a certain amount of
duties on goods imported by the defeidants in error, which
they believed was greater than the amount imposed by law.

