202.

SUPREME COURT.
,Philadelphia, Wilmington, and BaltimoreRailroad Co. v. Quigley.

Nor can this mistake be corrected by a citation from this
court. The act of Congress requires it to be issued by the
judge or justice who allows the writ of error, and it cannot be
legally issued by any other judge or court.
The case must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.

THE PHILADELPHIA, WILMINGTON, AND BALTIMORE IRAILROAD
COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. PHILIP QUIGLEY.
A railroad company is responsible in its corporate capacity for acts done by its
agents, either ex contractu or in delicto, in the course of its business and of
their employment.
It is responsible, therefore, in an adtion for the publication of a libel.
It iswithin the course of its businesp and the employment of the president and
directors, for them to investigate the conduct of their officers and agents, and
report the result to the stockholdrs.
But a publication of this report must be made under the conditions and responsibilities that attach to individuals under such circumstances.
En the absence of any malice or bad faith, a report to the stockholders is a privi.
leged communication. But-this privilege does not extend to the preservation
of the report and evidence in a book for "distribution amongst the persons be.
longing to the corporation, or the members of the community.
So far, therefore, as the corporation authorized the publication in the form em- ployed, they are responsible in damages:
But the instruction of the Circuit Court was erroneous, holding the corporation
responsible for a publication which took place after the commencement of the
* suit. Also an instruction allowing the jury to give exemplary damages, because there was no evidence that the injury was inflicted maliciously or wanton1y.
'Under the general-issue plea, no question could be raised as to the, capacity of
the parties to sue in the Circuit Court.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
It was an action on the case for libel brought by Quigley
against the railr.oad ompany, under the circumstances which
are fully set forth in the opinion of the court, which -also con
tains the instructions of the Circuit Court-to the jury.

DECEM]ER TERM, 1858.

203

PUIladdpida Wilmington, and BaltimoreRailroad Co. v. Quigle.

The case was argued by Mr. Scdey and Mr. DonaldsoA for
the plaiitiffs in error, and .Mr.Johnson and JI. -Davisfor the
defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error made the following
points:
1.An action of libel cannot be sustained against the plain:
tiff in error. The laws, under which it exists as a corporate
body, are a part of the record." Itis a railroad company, with
defined and limited faculties and powers; and it can exercise
no incidental powers, except such as are necessary to the full,
exercise of the faculties and powers expressly given by its
charter. Being a mere legal entity,, it is incapable of malice;
and in the. very definition of libel, malice is an essential ele
ment. The action should have been instituted against the
natural persons, who published the alleged libel.
Rex v. The Great North of England Railway Co., 9 Q. B.,
315.
Stevens t. Midland Counties Railway Co., 10 Exchequer,
852.
Commonwealth v. The Proprietors ofI ew Bedford Bridge,,
2 Gray, 345.
State v. Great Works Mill and Man. Co., 20 Maine, 41.
MeClelland v. Bank of Cumberlaid, 24 Maine, 566.
Childs v. Bank of Missouri, 17 Missouri, 218.
And, for illustration, the caies of Colman t. The Eastern
Counties Railway Co., 4 Railway C., 513, and Salonions v.
Lainy, 6 Railway C., 801, are referred to, showing that the
corporation is not bound by acts of directors, when such acts
are ultra vires.
,2. Even if the action of libel could be maintained against
the', plaintiff in error, in a case of unliofud publication, yet; upon the proof in this case, there was no such publication.
,The communication,, by the president and directors to the
stockholders; of the results of the investigatiori into the conduct of the company's officers, was ftprivileged comuinieation; and even if it amounted to a publication, no action will
,ic, unless upon prbof of express maliceand the want of proba-

SUPREME COURT.
Piiladdhia, Wirnington, aid Balimore Railroad Co. v. Quigey.

bie cause; and the burden of proving malice and want of
probable cause was -in the.plaintiff below.
Van Dyck v. Guthrie, 4 Duer, 268.
Vanderzee v. McGregor, 12 Wend., 545.
Davison v. Duncan, 40 Law and E. Rep., 219.
Shipley i. Todhunter, 7 Carr and Payne, 680; 32 Eng. 0.
L. Rep., 685.
Somerville v. Hawkins, 10 0. B., 583; 70 Eng. C. L. Rep.,
583.
Taylor v. Hawkins, 16 Q. B., 308; 71 Eng. C. L. Rep., 30T.
Harris v. Thompson, 18 0. B., 833; 76 Eng. C. L. Rep.,
3383.
Cockayne v.Hodgkinson, 5 Carr and Payne, 543; 24 Eng.
0. L. Rep., 448.
Toogood v. Spyring, 1 Cr. Mees. and Ros., 181.
Padmore v. Lawrence, 11 Ad. and El., 380, 39 Eng. C. L.
Rep., 115.
Howard v. Thompson, 21 Wend., 320.
Bradley v. Heath, 12 Pick., 163.
Hopwood v. Thorn, 8 Mann., Grang., and Scott, 315; 65
Eng. C. L. Rsp., 291.
White v. Nicholls, 3 How., 266.
Cooke v.Wilde, 30 Law and E. Rep.
8. But there was no evidence of publication, by the defendait, of the matter complained of. as libellous. The report of
the president and directors to the stockholders of the company,
communicating the results of the investigation, was no such
publication; and the adoption of their report, and the consequent nrinting of the testimony, and its authorized distribution
amongst the stockholders, was no such publication.
Rex v. Baillie, 2 Esp. N. P., 10, and cited in Howard v.
Thompson, 21 Wend.
4. There was no evidence of express malice on the part of
the corporation, or on the part of the board of directors, or on
the part of the stockholders. It is not a case in which vindictive damages could properly be given.
2 Greenl. E v., sees. 253, 420.
Day v. Woodworth, 13 How., 371..

DECEN3BER TERM, 1858.

205

rPhzaddphia Wilrningtloi and Baltimore Bailroad Co. v. Quigleq.

5. The first insttuction of the court below was erroneous in
several particulars. It directed the jury that they might infer
malice, from the meie falsehood of any statement in the letter of
Mahoney, respecting the plaintiff in his trade and occupation;
and that Ihe distribution of the ,printed book, among any of
the stockholders, rendered the defendant liable in the action.
The .defendant, under this instruction, was not at liberty to
rlaiin a verdict, except upon Inroof of the truth of every statement
in said letter; for the distribution of the book, to some extent,'
amongst the stockholders, was not denied.
6. But the sec6nd instruction was even more exceptionable.
It was calculated to mislead the jury; and, although, undoubtedly, not so designed, seemingly suggests to them the pro-,
priety of giving exemplary damages. The quantum of damages,
under this instruction, was to be composed of two items:
firstly, such amount as would render reparationto the plaintiff;
AND, secondly, such amount as would act as an adequate punishment to the defendant; and in making up this blended amount,
the jury were told to give such damages as; in their opinion,
were. called for and justfied in view. of all the circumstances of
the case. The instruction left the jury at large, irrespective
of the special character in which the plaintiff complained. In
,his declaration, the plaintiff sued, in his character as a mechanic, for an alleged libel upon him, as a mechanic; and he
c6mplains of injury to his reputation, not as a man, but as. a
mechanic,; and he claims special,and not general,damages. Now,
there was certainly evidence, and. strong evidence, to show that
the plaintiff had not sustained any actual damage in his reputation, or in his business, as a mechanic; 'and, if so, the case
was one, not for vindmctie, but nominal damages. The stand-.
ard.of making reparation to the plainti#7, and of punishing the
defendant, is not warranted by the declaration, and .not justified
by the cause of action.
7. The Circuit Court, upon the proof adduced, had not jurisdiction in this case. The plaintiff and defendant were not citizens of different States.
[The plaintiff sued as a citizen of Delaware. The defendan;
was described as "a body corporate in the State of Maryland

SUPREME COURT.
Philaddphla, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

-

incorporated by a law of the General Assembly of Maryland.'
But the proof showed that the defendant was also a body
corporate in Delaware, incorporated by an act of the Legislature of Delaware. If the defendant was a citizen of- Zi.aryland,
(as regards the question of jurisdiction,) because incorporated
under the laws of Maryland, then, by parity of reason, the defendant was also a citizen of Delaware, because incorporated
under the laws of Delaware. The proof also showed that
four of the directors and some of the stockholders were citizens and residents of Delaware; and the. articles of union,
under which the defendant exists as a corporate body, contain .an express provision, th'at the stated meetings of the
board of directors shall be held, alternately, in Wilmington
and in Philadelphia; and that an office shall be kept open'in
Wilmington, for the transfer of the stock of the company.
And by the provisions of an act of the State of Delaware,,.
forming a part of -the charter of this company, an annual tax
is imposed on so much of iis capital stock as formed, before
-the union, the capital stock of the Wilmington and Susquehanna Railroad Company.]
The plaintiff and -defendant below were therefore citizens
of the same State.
-In the case of this company against Howard, (13 How., 307,)
this point did not arise, as the plaintiff in that case was a citizen of Illinois.
In the case of Marshall v. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company, (16 How., 814,) no question was made below in relation to jurisdiction, and the proof did not present the precise
question which arises in this case.
In Rundle v. The Delaware and Raritan Canal Company,
(14 How., .80, 95,) the facts were essentially different.
Nor was ii necessary that this objection should
have been
made by plea in abatement. The cases of Sheppard v. Graves,
(14 How., 510,) and ofJones v. League, (18 How., 76,) it is supposed, do not apply-to a case like this. The objection does not
present any question. of disability of the plaintiff, or of privilege of th6 defendant. Pleading to the action admits, indeed,
the averments of the declaration as to the citizenship of the
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

20'1

pkhildpha, Wtming&2, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigky.

parties, but nothing more. And if the defendant be a citizen
also, of Delaware, as well as of Maryland, there'is no -repugnancy between the fact admitted in the pleading, and the fact
established -by'the proof. The court sua svone, would-decline.
jurisdiction in such case, even if waived by the parties.
The counsel for the defendtant in. error made the following
points:
1. That a corporation may be liable for a libel.
P. and D. St. Co. v. Hungerford, 6 G. and J., 291; 7 G.
and J., 44.
East Counties Railway.Br)6kes, 2 Eng. L. and Eq., 406.
16 East, 8; Angel & Ames, ch. 10, sec. 9; 14 Eng. C. L.
R., 159.
Merls v. Tariff. Manuf. Co., 10 Conn., 884.
Williams v. Beaumont, 10 Bingham, 260, 270.
Goodspeed v. E. Haddam Bk., 22 Conn., 530, 538.
Trenton M. L. I. Co. v. Perine, 3 Zebraskie, 402.
2. That there is sufficient proof of the publication and printing by the corporation.
Clark v. Corp. Washington, 12 Wheat., 40.
Bank U. S. v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat., 64.
Bank Columbia v. Patterson, 7 Cranch, 299.
Umn. Bank v. Ridgeley, 1 H. and G., 325.
3. That the publication was not in form or substance a privileged communication.
4. The measure of damages was rightly assigned by the court.
14 Howard, 468.
5. (a)- The jurisdiction is sufficientiy alleged.
(b) The question cannot now be raised on'the record.
.(c) If it-coiild, the facts show jurisdiction as well as the averment.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the'court.
The plaintiff, (Quigley,.) a citizen of Delaware, complained
of the defendants, "a body corporate in the State of Maryland, by a law of the General Assembly of Maryland," for-the
publication of a libel by them, in which his capacity and skill.

208

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

as a mechanic and builder of depots, bridges, station-l ouses,
and other structures for railroad companies, had been falsely
The defendand maliciously disparaged and undervalued.
ants pleaded the general issue. On the trial of the cause, it
appeared that in 1854, the .president and directors, then in
charge of the affairs of the defendants, instituted an inquiry
into the administration and management of a person who had
been the superintendent of their railroad for ten years. Among
other §ubjects, the nature of his cnnection and dealings with
the plaintiff, who had likewise been in the service of the corporation as "general foreman of all their carpenters," engaged
the attention of the committee f investigation. The president of the company, who conducted the -nquiry before this
committee on behalf of the corporation, -seems to have been
convinced that.the superintendent had exhibited partiality for
the plaintiff, and had allowed .hini extravagant compensation
for service, and the privilege of free transit over the road for
himself, his workmen, and freight, .to-the detriment of the
company, and in breach of his duty as superintendent. The
superintendent defended himselfagainst these and other impu i
tations, and produced testimony to the skill and fidelity of the
plaintiff while in the service of the company; also, to the value
of his services, and to ,the effect that no unusual or improper
favor had been extended to him.
The president of the company,.in the course of the investigation, addressed a letter to an architect, who had some -acquaintance with the plaintif; to request his'opinion of his skill
as a'meehanic, and whether the services of the plaintiff could
have had any peculiar value to a railroad company. The reply of this architect was very pointed and depreciative of the
plaintiff,,affirming that."hawas not entitled to rank as a thirdrate workman," and "was ifnable to make the simplest geometrical calculations." All the testiniony collected by the
committee, as produced by the superintendent, was carefully
reduced to writing, and printed; first, for the use of the president and directors, and -afterwards was submitted to the company at their meeting on the- 8th of January; 1855, .with a report, which exonerated in a great measure the superintendent

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

209

.Philadelphia,Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

from any mal-practice in consequence of his relations with the.
plaintiff. The investigation was searching, and testimony,
which, with the report of the committee, fills two printed volumes, was submitted to the company. The letter of the architect, in answer to the letter of the president, is printed in one
of these volumes, and this publication is the libel complained
of. Several of the directors testify -theywere not aware of the
publication, and evidence was adduced that the plaintiff haddeclared that the investigation had resulted in increasing his
business. A verdict was returned in favor of the plaintiff.
The defendants are a company incorporated by the Legislatures of Delaware and Pennsylvania, as well as of Maryland,
to construct a railroad to connect the three cities which contribute to form its name, and a portion of their directors and
stockholders are citizens of Delaware.
The defendants contend that they are not liable to be sued
in this action; that theirs. is a railroad corporation, with de.
fined and limited faculties and powers, and having only such)
incidental authority as is necessary to the full exercise of the
faculties and powers granted by their charter; that, being a)
mere legal entity,- they are incapable of malice, and that malice
is a necessary ingredient in a libel; that this action should
have been instituted against the natural persons who were
concerned in the publication of the libel. To support this argument, we should be required to concede that a corporate
body could only act within the limits and according to the
faculties determined by the act of incorporation, and therefore
that no crime or offence can be imputed to it. That although
illegal acts might be committed for the benefit or within the
service of the corporation, and to accomplish' objects for which
it was created by the direction of their dominant body, that
such acts, not being contemplated by the charter, must be referred to the rational and sensible agents who performed them,
and the whole responsibility must be limited to those agents,
and we should be forced, as a legitimate consequence, to conclude that no action ex delicto or indictment will lie against a
corporation for any misfeasance. But this conclusion would
be entirely inconsistent with the legislation and jurisprudence
vOL. XXI.

14

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelpia,Wilmington, an4 Batimore Rdailroad Co. v. Quigley.

of. the States of the Union relative to these artificial persons.
Legislation has encouraged their organization, as they concentrate and employ the intelligence, energy, and capital of society, for the development of enterprises of public utility. There
is scarcely an object of general interest for which some association has not been formed, and there are institutions whose
members are found in every part of the Union, who contribute
their efforts to the common object. To enable impersonalbe-ings-mere legal entities, which exist only in contemplation of
law-to perform corporal acts, or deal with personal agents,
the principle of.representation has been adopted as a part of
theii constitution. The powers of the corporation are placed
in the hands of a governing body selected by the members,
who manage its affairs, and who appoint the agents that exercise its faculties for the accomplishment of the object of its being. But these agents may infringe the rights of persons who
are unconnected with the corporation, or who are brought into
relations of business or intercourse with it. As a necessary
correlative to the priziciple of the exercise of corporate powers
and faculties by legal representatives, is the recognition of a
.orporate responsibility for the acts of those representatives.
With much wariness, and after close and exact scrutiny into
the nature of their constitution, have the judicial tribunals determined the legal relations which are established for the corporation by their governing body, and their agents, with the
natural persons with whom they are brought into contact or
collision. The result of the cases is, that for acts done by the
agents of a corporation, either in contractu or in delicto, in the
course of its business, and of their employment, the corporation is responsible, as an individual is responsible under similar circumstances. At a very early period, it was decided in
Great Britain, as well as in the United States, that actions
might be maintained against corporations for torts; and instances may be found, in the judicial annals of both countries,
of suits for torts arising from the acts of their agents, of nearly
every variety. Trespass quare clausumfregitwas supported in 9
Serg. and R., 94; 4 Mann. and G., 452; Assault and Battery,
4 Gray Mass. R., 465; 6 Ex.- Oh., 314. For damages by a col-

211

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.
.Phildpha, Wilmin ton, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v.

uzgley.

,

]ision of rail-cars and steamboats, 14 How., 465; 19 How., 543
For a false representation, 84 L. and Eq. R., 14; 11 Wheat., 59
The case of the National Exchange Co. of Glasgow v. Drew,
(2 Macqueen H. of L. Gas., 103,) was that of a company in
failing circumstances, whose managers sought to appre.ciate
its stock by 6 fraudulent representation to the company, and a
publication of the report as adopted by it, that its affairs were
prosperous. Two of its stocklholders were induced to borrow
money from the company to invest in its stock. Theuestio#i
in the cause was, whether the company was responsible for the
fraud. In the House 'ofLordsupon appeal, Lord St. Leonards said: "I have come to the conclusion; that'if-represen.tations are made-by a company fraudiiiently, for:the purpose of
enhancing the value of stock, and they induce a third .person
to purchase stock, those repr6sentatiofis .so made by thei.bind
the company. I bonsider fepresentation 4by the directors of
a company as representations'by the company, ilthough they
*
*
may be representations miade to th c6mpany."
The report "becomes the act of'{he companyoby its adoption
and sending it forth as a trua representation of their affairs;
and if that repre~entation is made use of in dealhig *iith third
persons, for the"benet of the company, it subjec.ts them to the
loss which.may accru6 to-t1he party who deals, trusting to those
representations."It would be difficult to furnish a reason for the liability of a
corporation for a fraud, und&r such circumstances, that would'
not.apply to sustini an action for the publication of a libel.
The defendants are a corporation, having a, large capital dis:tributed- among -several hundred of persons. Their railroad
donnects- large-cities, and passes through- a fertile district.
Their business brings-tlem in competitiofi with companiez
and individuals concerned. in the- business of transportation.
They have-a numerous body of -officers, agents, and servants,
for whose fidelity and skill they ae responsible, and on whose
care the-success of theiFblusiness depends. The sto6k of the
company is a vendible security,-and the community expects
statements of its condition- and man agenment. There is nodoubt that it was theduty of the president and directors to

SUPREME COURT.
Pkadllphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

investigate the conduct of their officers and agents, and to report the result of that investigation to the stockholders, and
that a publication of the evidence and report is within the
scope of the powers of the corporation.
But the publication must be made under all the conditions
and responsibilities that attach to individuals under such ci:cumstances. The Court of Queen's Bench, in Whitefield v.
South Eas. .R. R. 'Co., (May, 1858,) say: "If we yield to the
authorities which s-ay that, in an action for defamation, malice
must be alleged, notwithstanding authorities to the contrary,
this allegation may be proved by showing that the publication
of the libel took place by order of the defendants, and was
therefore wrongful, although the defendants had no ill will to
the plaintiffs, and did not mean to injure them." And the
court concluded: "That for what is done by the authority of
a corporation aggregate, that a corporation ought as such to
be liable, as well as the individuals who compose it."
The question arises, whether the publication is excused by
the relations of the president and directors, as a committee
from their board, to the corporation itself. It cannot be denied that the inquiries directed by those officers were within
the scope of their power, and in the performance of a moral
and legal duty, and that the communication to their constituents of the evidence collected by them, and their conclusions
upon the evidence, was a privileged communication in the absence of any malice or bad faith. But the privilege of the
officers of the corporation as individuals, or of the corporate
body. does not extend to the preservation of the report and
evidence in the permanent form of a book for distribution
among the persons belonging to the corporation or the members of the community. It has never been decided that the
proceedings of a public meeting, though it may have been
convened by the authority of law, or of an association engaged
in an enterprise of public utility, could-be reported in a newspaper as a privileged publication. But a libel contained in
such proceedings, if preserved in the form of a bound volume,
might be attended with more mischief to private character
than an-y publication in a newspaper of the same document.

])ECEMBER TERM, 1858.

213

RaiZroad Co. v. Quigey.'
Phiadelphia, Wilmington, and &Bdtimore

The opinion of the court is, that in so far as the corporate
body authorized the publication in the form employed, they
are responsible in damages. The Circuit Court instructed the.
jury:
1. If the jury find, from the evidence in this tse, that the
defendants, by the pregideut and directors of said company,
published the letter from John T. Mahoney to *S. M. Felton,
president, &c., dated March 3d, 1854, in the declaration men-tioned, and that any or all of the statements in the said letter
respecting the plaintiff in his trade and occupation are false;
*and shall further find, that the said president and directors, at
the annual meeting of the stockholders of said company, held
8th January, 1855, reported to the said stockholders their action in the premises, and that the proceedings of the committee
of investigation (which contained the said letter) were then
being printed, and, as soon as printed, would be distributed to
the stockholders, and that said report was accepted by the
stockholders; and if the jury shall further find, that, after
the meeting of the stockholders had adjourned, the president
-and directors of said company distributed the book containing
the said letter among the stockholders of this company, or any
of them, then the jury may find for the plaintiff.
2. And if the jury find for the plaintiff under the first,instruction, they are not restricted in giving damages to the
actual positive injury sustained by the plaintiff,, but may give
such exemplary damages, if any, as in their opinion are called
for andjustified, in view of all the circumstances in this case,
to render reparation to plaintiff, and act as an adequate punishment to the defendant.
The firpt instruction is erroneous, because the publication to
which the court referred as blameworthy, and to authorize the
jury to find a verdict against the defendant, took place after
the commencement of this suit.
The second instruction contains the same error, and is objectionable for the additional reason that the- rule of damages
is not accurately stated to the jury.
In Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. S. C. R., 371, this court recognised the power of a jury in certain actions of tort to assess

SUPREME COURT.
Philadepdhia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

against the tort-feasor punitive or exemplary damages. Whenever the injury complained of has been inflicted maliciously
or wantonly, and with circumstances of contumely or indignity, the jury are not limited to the ascertainment of a simple
compensation for the wrong committed against the aggrieved
.person. But the malice spoken of in this rule is not merely
the doing of an unlawful or injurious act. The word implies
that the act complained of was conceived in the spirit of mischief, or of criminal indifference to civil obligations. 1othing
of this kind can be imputed to these defendants.
The letter of Mahoney was reported to the company with
other evidence that rendered it innocuous, and its statements
were never adopted by them. The -plaintiff has repeatedly affirmed that he had derived an advantage from the investigation by the company, and, upon reading all the evidence, as
reported and published, we do not perceive how an impression
unfavorable to him could have been made by it upon any candid mind. The circumstances under which the evidence was
collected, and the publication made, repel the presumptior of
the existence of malice on the part of the-corporation, and so
the jury should have been instructed.
The averments in the declaration of the facts proper to give
the'Circuit Court jurisdiction over the parties, are identical
with those which were fully considered by this court, and received the sanction of two-thirds of the judges in Marshall v.
The Baltimore and Ohio R. R. Co., 16 How., 314. A repetition of the discussion that took place and was reported with
that case is deemed to be unnecessary.
The only plea filed in this cause is.the general issue. That
plea raises an issue upon the merits of the complaint, and
leaves the jurisdictional allegations without a traverse.
No question involving the capacity of the parties in the
cause to litigate in the Circuit Court can be rased before the
jury under such pleadings. Conard v. A-dantic Insurance Co.,
1 Pet., 386; Evans v. Gee, 11 Pet,, 80; Owing v. Wickliffe,
17 How., 47. The testimony that the States of Delaware and
Pennsylvania had respectively granted a corporate character to
'the same corporators that 'form the corporation in Maryland,

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

215

TiladZelphia, Wilminglon, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigleyr.

for the extension of the railroad through those States, to connect the cities that appear in the name of the corporation,
and the testimony that some of thie directors of the several
corporations reside in Delaware, in the condition of the pleadings, Was immaterial and irrelevant.
For the errors we have noticed, the judgment of the Circuit
C'ourt is reversed, and the cause remanded.
Mr. Justice DANIEL:
Inthe judgment of this court, so far as it directs a reversal
of that of the Circuit Court, I fully concur. But, in my view,
the decision has performed but half its proper office, by omitting to order a dismission of this case by the Circuit Court.
It isnot designed here to repeat the arguments or the authorities so often and so unavailingly adduced,'in opposition
to -the cognizance of the Federal court of contr'oversies in
which corporations are parties.
Some cursory recapitulation will, however, be attempted of
previous decisions made here, as evincing the progress of relaxation and inconsistency from the first departure, from what,
by. me at least, are deemed sound, legal, and constitutional
principles, down to the remarkable instance exemplified in the
case before us.
The first step in this progress was the decision that a corporation might be made a party in the Federal courts, by entirely destroying the existence of such a body; and by this
process it was pretended that it was made capable of suing and
being sued, and by imposing liabilities on private natural persons, who, by the very nature' and character of the corporate
body, and by the terms of its organization, possessed not om
of its powers, and could exercise not one of its functions.
Vide 5 Cranch, 61; The Bank of the United States v. Deveaux. Next, and in order to cover this glaring irregularity,
it seemed necessary to transform a corporation into a quasi, or
into so much of a citizen as would authorize its pleading and
being'impleaded in the Federal c6urts, although the Constitution and the laws of the United States do not recognise nor
wake mention of any particular part or fraction of a citizen,

SUPREME COURT.
.Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

but confine the cognizance of the courts to controversies between citizens of different States, sustaining their full natural,
political, and social relations. This was the object attempted
in The case of the Cincinnati Railroad Company and Letson,
in the 2d of Howard. It then became necessary to give to this
citizen corporationa local habitation or residence. in order to fix
his origin and position, on which it was, and is yet, perhaps,
conceded, that his admission into the courts of the United
States was dependent; and this court, to accomplish this purpose, seems to have settled upon one or the other of the following conclusions, or perhaps in part on both: that either
the locality within which this citizen may be fabricated, or that
within which his agents or factors (viz: the president and directors) hold their place of business, determines his political
position, his capacities and responsibilities, although it is palpable this latter conclusion abrogates completely the previous
doctrine of this court, that the rights and powers of a corporation remain and inhere in the individuals interested in the
company, and do not appertain regularly to the associated or
organized body. From these anomalous conclusions have
arisen the curious formula in pleading, by which access has
been sought and permitted in the courts of the United Statesas for instance, a certain company, a body corporate,, created by
some stated authority, but without averring citizenship or residence on
the Part of that body, but leaving these to be implied by the court,
sues or is sued. In the case under review, the party defendant below is averred to be the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and
Baltimore Railroad Company, a body corporate in Mkfaryland,
incorporated by a law of Maryland. Here, then, is averred
neither citizenship, nor an identity with, nor an equivalent
for citizenship, nor residence, nor commorancy anywhere, on
the part of the defendant. The corporate body is stated to be
in Maryland, but whether in its organized constitution, or by
the citizenship of its president and directors, or by its individual members, or whether in either character it is or is not of
M aryland, is left to the court to supply; and this, too, in defiance of the unbroken chain of decisions from 3 Dallas, 382,
down to 6 Wheaton, p. 450, comprising twelve distinct cases,

DECEM]3ER TER M, 1858.

217'

.Philaddpha,Wilmin.qton, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

ruling, in totidem verbis, that under the second section of the
third article of the Constitution, riot only must the parties to
suits in the Federal courts be citizens and inhabitants of different States, bat that this character must be averred expressly, and must appear upon the -record, and cannot be inferred
from residence or locality, however unequivocally stated; and
that the failure to make the required averment will be fatal to
the jurisdiction of a Federal court, either original or appellate,
and is not cured by the want of a plea or of a formal exception
in any form, and that even the party who is guilty of the irregularity may avail himself of it upon appeal.
This case is marked by peculiarities, which, if they can, consistently with the rules of pleading and evidence, be regularly
brought into view, will show more clearly'than has hitherto
been done the effects of the anomalous proceedings above
adverted to. It is ruled by all the cases, that where want of
jurisdiction in the Federal courts.is apparent on the face of the
pleadings, the courts, original and appellate, are bound to take
,notice of this defect, and that there can be no requisition on
parties to show it either by averment or proof. The establishment of this principle certainly dispenses with the necessity
for proofs in such a case, for why undertake to establish by
proof that which is admitted? Moreover, the character of the
defect partakes more, perhaps, of matter of law than of fact.
Hence it may be questionable, how far the introduction of any
evidence, and still more of cumulative evidence, is or was-admissible to show this admitted or patent defect, which'it has
been so often ruled that the court must take notice of without
plea or demurrer. But we see by the record, that evidence,
extensive and documentary, was introduced as to this point,
andc read without objection. And to what conclusions does
this evidence, if admissible, inevitably lead? According to the
decisioris previously made here with respect to corporations-.
according, too, to the argument of counsel for the defendant in
error-the Baltimore Railroad Company was created separately
and exclusively by the State of Maryland, and its attributes of
suing or being sued, and every other attribute or function, was
imparted and perfected by that separate authority, which was

SUPREME COURT.
Pilade.phia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

limited by the power of Maryland. So, too, the Philadelphia
Railroad Company was separately and independently created
by Pennsylvania; and, in like manner and with like effect, the
Delaware Railroad Company, by the State of Delaware. Neither of the States just mentioned had the power to create a
citizen of another State, nor to create or invest any attribute
or right of citizenship beyond its own jurisdiction. It follows,
then, that the incorporation of these companies was in each a.
separate, independent, and distinct and complete act, operating
only within the sphere of the legitimate autbority that 'performed it, and any right or attribute of citizenship it could confer, would be imparted to its own subjects alone; it could not
determine the polity of other communities, or the rights of
their people. But, by some prot~ssional magic, these three.
separate 6reations, which, if invested with any of the qualities
of citizenship, were necessarily circumscribed as to these by
the authority of their respective States, are here converted into
one. These three quai 6itizens of different States are transformed into one; and, although three-fold in form, less than
one; and by this transformation are brought into tribunals
where real citizens are not permitted to litigate without averring, and if :denied, not without proving the truth and reality
of their character in obedience to the command of the Constitution. In the present instance, this may subserve the convenience of the individual but in another aspect the mischiefs
incident to such a relaxation would be apparent and serious.
It would be putting it in the power of separate corporations,
deriving their origin from distinct sources by claiming a joint
name or title, .to select at will, for its'purposes, a forum within
that.jurisdiction, within which either corporate body -was created. The averments of citizenship and residence being dispensed with by this court, no'checli is left to such a combination and irregularity;, and by this practice there is extended
to artificial bodies, which are not, and cannot, from the-nature
of things, be citizens, privileges which belong by the Constitution to citizens only, and upon proof, if required, of the reality of their character as such.
It has just been remarked that the arguments against the

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

219

.Piladdphia,Wilmington, and Baltimore Bailroad Co..v. Quigl7.

jurisdiction of the Federal courts over corporate bodies may
be found in s6me of the opinions delivered in the case of Marshall against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, and
it is said that these arguments it is unnecessary to repeat, and
it is seen that they have not been deemed of sufficient cogency
to prevent a concurrence in proceedings and pretensions which
those arguments were urged to condemn.
The relevancy or the justice of the above declaration I confess myself somewhat at a loss to comprehend. If it be intended by way of recantation, proripted by a conviction of the
unsoundness of those arguments, and aa a criticism upon those
who are unable to chime in with the notes of such a palinodia,
it would seem to me that a direct avowal of that*conviction,
and of the consequences -to which'it had led, would have been
nothing more than justice to all. If, on the other hand, the
soundness of those arguments'is still regarded as a regular
deduction from constitutional principle,'and from'fealty to the
Constitution, then a relinquishment of thoge arguments, or the
failure to assert them on every occasion similar to that first
,alling them-forth, however justifiable in the view of others,
would in myself, by myself, be felt as a compromise of a sacred
and solemn duty. The vindication of truth, whenever we shall
be called on: to speak or to act, can never,.in my opinion, be
properly shunned; I,therefore, am bound to reassert all which
I have endeavored earnestly, however feebly, to maintain, and
which I still believe.
I am.further of the opinion, that apatt -from any question as
to the peculiar jurisdiction of the Federal courts, this -iction
could not be maintained in any forum. possessing even general
legal powers. Itis to be borne in mind, that the proceedings
in this case are not founded upon any express or peculiar right
or authority vested by statute or other special and competent
power, but are claimed as the legitimate consequences inherent in, and flowing from, the nature and constitution of corporations aggregate. By those who affirm this doctrine it is
indispensable that they should show as inherent in, and consistent with, the constitution of such corporations, the attributes
and qualities to which proceedings like the present are caicti-

SUPREMkE COURT.
_Philadelhia, Wilmington, and Bdltimore Railroad Co. v. Quigley.

lated to apply, and with which they can, by any rational or
logical comprehension, be made applicable. The metamorphosis which would transmute an aggregate corporation into a
natural person, must necessarily transfuse into this new creation the capabilities and qualities of the being into which it is
changed. Upon any other hypothesis, the fact of identity
could not be. Natural persons are capable of the passions of
love and hate; can contend in mortal combat by duel or otherwise; can go into the field in command of armies; can sit upon
the bench of justice, or in the legislative or executive departments of the Government. According to this transmutation
theory, all these qualities are imparted to its new promethean
experiment, who, of course, could he be only apprehended or
laid hold of, might, like his prototype-or, more properly, his
other self-be subjected for the misuse of those qualities to the
extremest penalties of the law, the scaffbld or the gallows. To
my apprehension, this theory involves the confounding of all
political, legal, moral and social distinctions. By that apprehension, derived from the definitions of corporations aggregate,
as given by Brooke, Coke, and Blackstone, and by the express
language of this tribunal in the earlier cases decided by it,
these bodies are regarded as merely artificial-a species of
fictionesjuris, created for particular objects, and vested certainly
with no greater or higher attributes than the creator of those
bodies has power to bestow. Man can have no power to confer mind, passion, or moral perception, nor moral powers, upon
a mere' fabrication of his own-a mere piece of parchment or
paper. No quo animo, therefore, can be affirmed of a fiction
to which no animus, or passion, or moral quality, can be imparted.
It has ever been admitted, that into slander or libel, malice
essentially enters. Slander or libel is an injury inflicted with
a wicked or malevolent motive. Reason and common sense
would hence conclude, that where there could be motive of no
kind whatsoever, there could be no malice, and therefore no
offence, of which malice is the essential, the leading and distinguishing characteristic.
In several of the English cases it has been ruled, that trover

DEOEMI3ER TERM, 1858.
Philade phpia, Wilmington, and .Baltimore Railroad Co. v. Quiglew.

and trespass quare clausum fregii may be maintained against a
corporation; and this, with respect to the latter action, is going
a great way, as it-is not very easy to explain in what mode a
mere fiction or legal faculty -ca act vi et armis; yet a conceivable distinction may be taken btweeri acts injurious in their
effects and viewed as mere facts, and performed independently
of or without motive, and for which the actor is bound to make
reparation, and conduct the character of which lies exclusively
iii the motive, and which, apart from such motive, can neither
exist'nor be conceived.
In conformity with these conclusions is the opinion of Aldersen Baron, as late as the year 1854. (Vide 10 Exchequer Rep.
356; Stevens v. Midland Counties Railway Co.)
But a precedent for the affirmation of such a legal, physical,
and moral anomaly as an act to be characterized and appreciated by a quality which by no possibility can appertain to it,,
is relied upon in this case; and so far as that precedent is comprehended, it seems designed, at any rate, for an application
like the one made of it in this cause. It is believed, however,
to be a solitary precedent; and as the force of that precedent
(owing, perhaps, to no fault in his Lordship's reasoning, but in
those who are incapable of understanding his logic) is not very
clearly apprehended; and as it most certainly contravenes the
course of decision for centuries, the presumption of not yielding implicitly to the ruling of a Lord Chief Justice may perhaps be pardoned. This precedent is found in the ease of
-Whitfield et al. v. The Southeastern Railway Company, just
cited from the bench. That was an action for a libel, and the
declaration was demurred to, for the reason that malice could
not be affirmed of a corporation aggregate.
His Lordship says: "The demurrer to the declaration in this
case can only be maintained on the ground that the action will
not lie without proof of express malice, as contradistinguished
from legal malice."
How is this expression of his Lordship to be understood?
The ai-erment of malice, and the application of that averment
to the defendants, was a question arising upon the pleadings,
and upon the character or capacity of the party complained of,

222

SUPREME COURT.
Philadelpia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Co.v. Quigley.

as disclosed upon the face of the declaration. Whether malice, either express or implied, could be imputed to the plaintiff,
could have no influence a priori;if malice was alleged, it opened
at once-the only legitimate question arising upon the demurrer,
viz: could the defendants be guilty of malice? The character
or the degree of malice was a question arising upon the proofs,
and was the proper subject for the instructions from the judge.
It would be difficult to find a-precedent in pleading, wherein a
distinct averment as to express or implied or legal malice was made.
His Lordship proceeds: "But if we yield to the authorities
which say that in an action for defamation malice must be
alleged; notwithstanding authorities to the contrary." And
here, with a willingness always to be instructed, I would
gladly learn what authorities those are to which reference is
thus made; for within the sphere of my own inquiries, going
as far back as Owen, 51;. Noy, 85; 1 Saunders, 242; 4 Bur.,
2423; 3 Taunton, 246; and coming down to 8 Adolph. and
Ell., 652; 1 Maule and Selwin, 639, it is held, without a dissentient, that the declaration must show a malicious intent in
defendant; and although thie word maliciously is not absolutely
necessarily requisite, yet words of equivalent import must be
used; and it is said that the usual and better form of pleading
is, falsely and maliciously. (Vide 1 Rep., 273.)
His Lordship further proceeds, or is made to say: "This allegation may be proved, by showing that the publication of the
libel took place by order of the defendants, and was therefore
wrongful, although the defendants had no ill will to-the plaintiffs, and did not mean to injure them. Therefore, (note the
conclusioni,) "The ground on which it is contended that an
action for a libel cannot be maintained against a cofporatibn
aggregate fails." He who can connect this corollary with the
premises surpasses any ingenuity of mina.
To return to his Lordship's argument:
"This allegation may be proved." What allegation, we ask?
Why, the libel, a malicious- publication, "by showing that it
took p ace by order of the defendants, although the defendants
had no ill will to the plaintiffs, and did not intend to injure
them." Thns it is said to be the law, that a libel may exist

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

223

Campbell e al. v. Boyreau.

-

without an unfriendly intention; and with ecual reason might.
it be alleged or imputed where the intention was amicable,
I give the concluding reasons, ascribed to his .Lordship for
his decision. They are as follows:
"I may mention, that corporations aggregate are now so
common, that I believe that a public journal is conducted by
a corporation aggregate limited. Therefore, it *seems to us,
that for what is done by the authority of a corporation aggregate,'that a corporation aggregate ought, as such, to be liable
as well er~hps as the individuals. Therefore, we think there
ought to be judgment forthe plaintiffs."
The connection between'the number of aggregate corporations and their capacities.or liabilities, and the dependence in
any degree of the one upon the other, I leave to those who
have been favored with greatef perspicacity than has been given
to me.- I am wholly unable to perceive them.
In fine, with due respect for others, and with becoming diffidence of my~elA I am constrained to say, of the opinion in
the case of Whitfield v.-The Southeastern Railway Company,
as It has been brought to the view of this court, that In its
arguments and conclusions it is confused and obscure; and is
incongruous and contradictory, both in its reasoning and its
conclusions. In the line of English adjudications it presents
itself as solitary and eccentric; and in opposition to the most
inveterate, the clearest, and reiterated distinctions announced
by the sages of the law-distinctions having their foundation
in reason and in the essential character of the subjects to which
those distinctions have been applied. I cannot yield to that
opinion my assent. I think, therefore, that for either of the
objections before assigned there should te added to the -reversal of the judgment of the Circuit Court an order for a dismission of the suit.
WILLiAM CAMPBELL. AND TmIRTY-SEVEN OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN
E~IOR, V. CLEMENT BoYREAU.
This cQurt has heretofore decided, in several cases,. that, in ordei th bring the
questions of lam; before this*court by writ of error the fact. must be fouud in,

