184

SUPREME COURT.
Owners of Brig James Gray v. Owners of Sh

Johnt Frasere aZ.

cannot concur that it is the duty of the United States, under
the treaty, to disturb the possession of the settlers, while it

appears that there is better evidence to establish the right of
the donee, if any he had, to the land described in his concession. On the proofs exhibited, I am of the opinion that
the decree of the District Court should be wholly reversed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL
I fully concur in the above opinion.

WILLIAM CUsHrNG, JOHN N. CUSHING, AND CALEB CUSHING,
OF iEWBURYPORT, MASSACHUSETTS, OWNERS OF THE BRIG
JAMES GRAY, LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. THE OWNERS
OF THE SHIP JOHN FRASER AND THE STEAMER GENERAL
CLINCH.
An ordinance of the city authorities of Charleston, prescribing where a vessel
may lie in the harbor, how long she may remain there, what light she must
shuw at night, and making other siffilar regulations, is not in conflict with any
law of Congress regulating commerce, or with the general admiralty jurisdiction conferred on the courts of the United States. It is therefore valid.
A vessel at anchor is bound to show such a light as is required by the local regulations.
Where a vessel, being towed into port by a steam-tug, came into collision with a
vessel at anchor, and the steam-tug and vessel at anchor were both in fault,
the loss must be equally divided between them, provided the ship in tow was
thrown against the vessel at anchor without any fault or negligence on the part
of the vessel in tow.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of South Carolina, sitting in admiralty

It was a case of -collision, in the port of Charleston, under
the circumstances particularly set forth in the opinion of the
court.
The James Gray was at anchor, and the John Fraser was
being towed into the harbor by the steamer General Clinch,
when a collision ensued between the John Fraser and the
James Gray The owners of the latter libelled both the two

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

185

Owners of Brig James Gray v. Owners of Shp .TohnFraserd a7

other vessels. The District Court dismissed the libel against
the steamer, liut decreed for the libellauts against the John
Fraser, $3,902.67, being the amount paid for repairs to the
James Gray, and also a'sunm for demurrage.
The case was carried up to the Circuit Court, where additional evidence was taken, and the judge reversed so much of
the decree of the District Court as condemned the ship John
Fraser in damages, and affirmed the judgment in favor of the
steamer. The'libel was therefore dismissed, with costs. An
appeal brought the case up 'to this court.
It was argued on behalf of the appellants by Mr. Cushing
and Mr. Gllet,. on behalf of the owners of the John Fraser by
Mr. Brown, and on behalf of the steamer General Clinch by
Witch!.
Hfr.
The counsel for the libellants contended that the James Gray
was not in fault, and of course had a right to recover damages
from somebody; that the steamer and the Fraser were both to
blame, for many reasons; and that if the court should think
that the James Gray committed any fault, then the other two
vessels should be responsible for half of the damage.
The counsel for the steamer contended that the James Gray
was to blame; but if some one had to pay the damages, it
should be the John Fraser.
The counsel for the latter vessel contended also that the
James Gray was in fault; but if any one had to pay the damages, it should.be the steamer.
To follow the arguments through all these various ramifications, would require more space than can be allotted to the
case.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a case of collision in the port of Charleston, in South
Carolina.
The brig James Gray took on board a valuable cargo at
Charleston, destined foV Antwerpiand in the prosecution of
her voyage hauled off from the wharf into the stream and an-.

SUPREME COURT.
Owners of Br g James Gray v. Owners of Ship John .Masere al.

chored, on the 1st of February, 1856. The place where she
anchored was in the harbor, and was the place where vessels
bound out usually anchored for a short period, to make their
final preparations for sailing on their voyage. It was, however, a thoroughfare for vessels bound in, and through which
they were almost continually passing. She remained there
until the collision took place, which happened on the night bf
the 5th of the month above mentioned, about seven o'clock,
shortly after daylight had disappeared. On that. evening the
John Fraser came in from sea, in tow of the General Clinch.
The latter was a steamboat, occasionally employed in towing
vessels in and out of the harbor, and was properly fitted and
manned for that purpose. There was ample room on both
sides of the James Gray for the tug and the tow to have passed
with safety, if the James Gray had been seen in time. But she
was not seen, either from the General Clinch or the John Fraser, until the steamboat was abreast of her, and at the distance
of not more than forty or fifty fathoms. She was then for the
first time seen by those on board the General Clinch, which
had just before, and almost at the same moment, cast off the
hawser by which she was towing the John Fraser. The towing line was about fifty fathoms in length, according to the testimony of the pilot of the General Clinch, and was attached to
the larboard bow of the tow, and it was cast off by the General
Clinch without any previous .notice of the intention to do so
at that particular moment; and it appears to have been altogether unexpected on board the John Fraser. And as soon as
she was cast off, and not before, those on board of the John
Fraser, for the first time, discovered the James Gray directly
ahead, and upon which she was running. She endeavored to
avoid her by putting her helm hard to starboard, in order to
pass on the same side and in the wake of the tug; her speed,
however, from the tide and the impulse she had received from
the steamboat, was then about six knots an hour; and she
reached the brig before her course could b- aaffi.,iendy changed
to avoid a collision. The rigging of the Joha fi-a.er hec.Aae
entangled in the bowsprit of the br: Nhich it carried aw- v,
and caused other damage to the vessel t s-se"ilvq amon.t

DECEIV[BER TERM, 1858.
Ownrs of Brig amea Gray v. Own

18T

of hipJohnFraserd aL

So far the facts are undisputed; we come now to the points
in controversy.
_The libel is filed in rem by the owners of the James Gray
against the ships above mentioned, alleging that she was free
from fault, and that the damage was occasioned altogether by
their negligence and mismanagement, and claiming the right
to charge them with the whole amount of the loss sustained.
The owners of the John Fraser and the owners of the General Clinch answer separately, each of them charging-the misconduct of the James Gray as the cause of the disaster, but
each- of them also imputing some degree of blame to each
other.

Thek charge against the James Gray that she was lying in a
thoroughfare in the harbor, in violation of the local port regulations, and without the light that these regulations required.
And they produce two ordinances of the corporate authorities
of the city of Charleston, one of which provides that no vessel
shall lie in this thoroughfare for more than twenty-four hours,
and inflicts certain penalties for every, disobedience of this
ordinance; and the other requires all vessels anchored in the
harbr to keep a light burning on board from dark until daylight, suspended conspicuously midships, twenty feet high
from the deck.
The power of the city authorities to pass' and enforce these
two ordinances is disputed by the libellants. But regulafions
of this kind are necessary and indispensable in every commercial port, for the convenience and safety of commerce. And
the local authorities have a right to prescribe at what wharf a
vessel may lie, and how long she may remain there, where she
may unload or take on board particular cargoes, where she may
aichor in the harbor, and for what time, and what description
of light -she shall display at night to warn the passing vessels
of her position, and that she is at anchor and not under sail.
They are like to the local usages of navigation in different
ports, and every vessel, from whatever part of the world she
may tonie, is bound to take notice of them and conform to
them. And there is nothing in the regulations referred to in
the port of Charleston which is in conflict with any law of Con-

SUPREME COURT.
Owners of Brg Jam& Grayj v. Owners of Slip hohn Frase e al.

gress regulating commerce, or with the general admiralty jurisdiction conferred on the courts of the United States.
Yet, upon the evidence before the court, we do not think
the James Gray ought to be regarded as in fault, by rermaining
at anchor in the harbor beyond the time limited in the city
ordinance. She was seen there by the harbor-master day after
day, without being ordered to depart; nor did he seek to inflict
the penalty. The object of this regulation was obviously to
prevent this thoroughfare from being crowded by vessels at
anchor, which would make it inconvenient or hazardous to
vessels coming into the port. And from the conduct and testimony of the harbor-master, it may be fairly inferred that this
regulation was not strictly enforced when the thoroughfare
was not over-crowded, and that single vessels were sometimes
permitted to remain beyond the time fixed by the ordinance,
without molestation from the city authorities. And this lax
execution of the regulation would soon become a usage in the
port, and will account for the indifference with which the
harbor-master saw her lying there three days beyond the
limited time, without even remonstrance or complaint. He
appears to have acquiesced. And if this was the interpretation
of the ordinance by the local authorities, it ought not to be
more rigidly interpreted and enforced by this court.
But the omission of the light prescribed by the regulation
stands on different grounds. There was certainly no acquiescence of the local authorities in that respect; and, upon the
testimony, it is a matter of dispute whether she had any light
or not. That question will be considered hereafter. But it
is admitted on all hands that she had not a light suspended
conspicuonsly midships, twenty feet above the deck, as the
regulation requires; and the light which she alleges she used
was not the ' ordinary globe lamp used by vessels at anchor,
but a lantern of triangular form, with one side dark, and the
light shining only through the other two, and which, consequently, could not be seen by those who approached on the
dark side. The ordinance obviously contemplated the usual
signal light of a vessel at anchor, which is bright on every side,
and can be seen by those who are approaching from any direc-

SDEEMBER TERM, 1858.

:189 .

Owners of Brig .Tames Gray v. Owners of Ship .Thn Fraser et aZ.

tion. And as the regulations of the port required a light of
this kind, suspended in the manner hereinbefore mention~d.
the James Gray could not be justified in-disregarding this regulation, and substituting a light of a different description, and
placed in a different part of the vessel. Those who were coming into port had a right to presume that a vessel anchored
in this thoroughfare would have the light prescribed by the
port regulations. They would look for no other, nor expect
to find a vessel in their way without one, and might be misled
as to the.exact position of the vessel, if a light of a different character was shown or hung up in a different place.. And as the lighte
of the.brig (if she had one) differed in character and place.from
the one which the regulations and usages of the pbrt required, and which incoming vessels would look for, she committed a fault which justly subjects her to damages for-'the
collision. She had not takefi those means to avoid it whicli
the regulations of the port in which she was lying required
and prescribed.
But, apart'from the regulations of the local authorities, we
thinlk the James Gray was in fault upon the established principles of maritime law. She was at anchor at a place where
vessels were continually passing. It was her duty, therefore,
to show. at night the usdal signal light of a vessel at anchorthat is,' a globe lamp, or one without any dark side to it, which
could be seen from any direction, and hung high enough in
the rigging to be seen at a distance.
The witnesses who were on board of the General Clinch and
the John Fraser say she had no light of any kind immediately
before and at the time of the collision ; and in this they are
supported by the testimony of other witnesses who were observing her about the same time. But those who were on
board of the James Gray testify to the contrary, and their testimony'is confirmed by others; and we think -that, upon the
whole evidence, the just conclusion is that she had a light, in
a lantern of triangular form, with one dark side, hanging on'
the ibre swiftsure, iwenty feet and some inches above the deck.
The fore swiftsure.is, weainderstand, the foremost rope of the.
foremast throuds.

SUPREME COURT.
Owners of Brig James Gray v. Owners of Ship hon Fraseret al.

:Now, a light of this description is not ordin.arily used as a
signal light for a vessel at anchor; but is used at sea, fastened
at the bowsprit, with the opaque side to the ship, so as to throw
a strong light ahead. And it is obvious that such a lantern,
fastened to a single rope at the top only, and more than twenty
feet from the deck, would be liable to waver, from the motion
of the vessel as she was riding at anchor, and to turn its dark
side sometimes in one direction and sometimes in another;
and if such a light was used as a signal light, it was more
especially the duty of those in charge of the brig to see that
the lamp was securely fastened, so as to present its bright sides
in the direction in which vessels were likely to approach.
But this is not proved to have been done. It is true that
one of the witnesses for the libellants (Wycoffe) says it was
securely fastened at the top and the bottom, with the dark side
tothe stern. This may have been the way in which it was
usually fastened, but none of the witnesses examined by the
libellants know how it.was fastened that night. Wycoffe does
not appear to have even been on deck when it was put up. It
was put up by a boy; and When the light appeared dim after
the collision, Wycoffe says he started to take it down ; but the
boy was too quick for him, and took it down and trimmed it.
The second mate, who gave the order to the boy to put it up,
went below to his tea immediately afterwards, without waiting
to see that his order was properly executed; and the first mate
went down with him; and no one but this boy appears to have
known how it was fastened to the rope that night. He was
not examined as a witness, nor is his name mentioned. They
speak of him as "the boy," and we think it was great want
of care on the part of the officer in charge of the deck to confide this important duty to the heedlessness of a boy. His age
is not stated, nor his previous pursuits, nor how long he had
been pn board, nor his knowledge or fitness for the duty intrusted to bim. The place where the brig was anchored, and
the" character of the light they were about to display, made it
the more imperatively the duty of the officers to see that it was
securely and properly fastened, so as to present the bright sides
to the incoming vessels, as she was in most danger of being

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

191

Owners of Brig James Gray v. Owners of Shi. J'oh Fraseret al.

run into by them. But without the testimony of the boy who
put it up and took it down or any proof of his age and character, from which it might be inferred that the duty was well
and faithfully performed, the court cannot say that a sufficient
light was displayed to warn vessels coming into the harbor
that she was at anchor in this thoroughfare.
Indeed,' the just inference from the testimony would be
othei wise; for if the lantern was carelessly hung, and liable
to move to some extent from one to the other, so as at one
monient to present its bright side, and a moment after its dark
side in the same direction, it would account for the difference
in the testimony of different witnesses, who looked at her from
the same point of view, some'testifying that she had no light,
and others that she had a very bright one.
Independently, therefore, of the local regulations, the James
Gray, upon the general principles of maritime law and usages,
cannot be acquitted of negligence, and must share in the loss.
But the conduct of those on board of the General Clinchb
was equally culpable. For if, as they contend, the brig showed
no light, or if the dark side of the lantern was turned towards
her when she was approaching, yet it is satisfactorily proved
that the night was light enough to have enabled her to see the
brig at a distance abundantly sufficient to pass with her tow
without danger to either, and that'she must or would have
been seen with a proper look-out.
The General Clinch was not under the control of the captain of the John Fraser, but under the command and direction
of her own pilot, who was substituted for her regular captain,
who was not on board. She could select her own course and
her own rate of speed, and was bound to keep a vigilant and
competent look-out in the thoroughfare in which vessels so
frequently anchored. But there is no proof to.show that this
was done. The three bands who were at the stern of the
steamboat, awaiting the order to cast off the hawser, were certainly not look-outs. The pilot who was in command had his
attention drawn to other matters, and was preparing to give
the order to cast loose the hawser, and in communicating with
the ship he had in tbw.. It is said, indeed, that there were two

192

SUPREME COURT.
Owners 6f Brig James

' Owners of SpJonFraseret aL

of the crew in the forward part of the vessel, whose duty it
was to leep a look-out; but, being colored persons, they could
not, by the laws of South Carolina, be examined as witnesses.
But the law requires of a colliding vessel, that she shall prove
not only that she had a competent look-out stationed at the
,,proper place, but also that the look-out was vigilantly performing his duty. And'if he placed there persons who cannot be
witnesses, it is his own fault; it was his awn voluntary act,
and can thevefore be no sufficient reason for the absence of
that proof wliich the law requires him to produce.
It was especially the duty of the officer in command of the
steamboat, in a crowded harbor like that, when his tow was
following him a the rate of six or seven miles an hour, and
her course necessarily directed by the steam-tug, to have
$canned carefully the surrounding objects before he cast loose
the tow line, and to see that there was nothing in the way of
thetow which he-could not avoid by means of her own rudder, without the aid of the steamboat, and also to have given"
.reasoiiable notice of his intention, in order that she might prepare to take care of herself. -Butthis ws not done. He suddenly let -go the towing line, without notice or warning to the
John Fraser. And the moment after he had done so, and not
before, he finds his own vessel almost aboard of a vessel at anchor, and the head of the John Fraser, under the direction and
impulse his ship had given her, directed upon the anchored
vessel, and too near to avoid a collision when she had lost the
aid of the General Clinch.
This state of things could not have happened without great
want of care on the part of the steam-tug. Indeed, this negli-.
gence is apparent from the testimony of the'pilot himself, who/
was acting as captain.- He says his station was on the wheelhouse; and that after'he let go the John Fraser, he had just
time towalk from the bow to the aft -part of the steamer, when
he saw the Gray. She was not, therefore, first seen from the
wheel-house or the bow, but from the stern of his vessel, when
he was nearer to her than he was to the ship he was towing.
The stern- of the vessel is. not the first place from which the.
James Gray would have been seen, if-the wheel-house was a
*

DkOEM3BRTERM, 18.58.

192

Owners of Brig James Gray v. Omners of ShiA
Joht Fraer et aL

proper place, and *he had performed there the duty of. a lookout. And as regards the two hands which he states were forward as look-outs, they appear never to have seen the brig
until after she was discovered by the i]ot fiom the stern,
when in the act of passing her bow, for they gave no notice
of a vessel ahead, and d6 not appear to have seen her before
her proximity was announced by the -pilot. If stationed forward as 1.ook-out_, it is very clear that they were not performing that duty, and the collision was the natural consequence'
oftheir negligence; for the James Gray was plainly seen from
the tbhn -Fraser the instant the steam-tug dropped the tow
line and turned out of her.way; and as the tow line was fifty
fathofis long, the. steamboat could unquestionably also have
seen her as she apprdached her, at least at that distance ahead,
as vMell as froni the stern; and if she had been seen even at that
distance, and the General Clinch had hel& on to the hawser,
she could have carried the John Frasei safely past; and without dnger.
And ulion such proofs of negligence and of want of proper
caution, the court is of opinion that the General Clinch is justly answerable, as well as the James Gray, for-the consequences
of this disaster.
So far as the ship John Fraser- is concerned, we see nothing in the evidence from which any fault or mismanagement
can justly be imputed to her. According to the usage of
trade at that port, she engaged a steamboat, well acquainted
.with the harbor and its usages, to bring her in. When fastened to the hawser, and in tow, she was controlled entirely
by the "steam-tug, both as to her course and speed. The
steamboat was not subject to the orders- of the commander of
the John Fraser, but was altogether under the control and direction of her own commander for thq time. A look-out on
board of the John Fraser would be'of.little or no value, for the
view ahead was obstructed by the steam-tug, and she could do.
nothing more than watch the motion' of the steamboat, and
use her own rudder, -so as to keep her as nearly as might be in
the wake of the tug to which she was attached. She had a
right to suppose that a proper look-out would be kept- by. the
VOL.

XI.

13

-

SUPREME COU r.
Owners of Brig James Gray v. Owners of Ship John Fraseret al-

steamboat, and that she would not be led into dangers from
which no effort on her part would enable her to .escape.' And
she was brought into this dangerous proximity to the James
Gray, and then cast loose, under circumstances which rendered
a collision inevitable; and she was driven against. the vessel
at anchor altogether by the direction and impulse which she
received from the controlling power of the steamboat, and niot
by any act of negligence or mismanagement on her part.
It is indeed said by some of the Witnesses, that if she had put
1ier helm to the larboard; instead of the starboard, as soon as she
was cast off, she might have passed in safety on the other side
of the James Gray. But the weight of the proof is clearly to
the contrary; and we are convinced that she adopted the only
chance for safety, by putting her helm to starboard, and endeavoring to pass on the same side that the steam-tug .bad
passed.
It is true, that the John Fraser was the res or thing which
struck the James Gray, and did the damage. But the mere
fact that one vessel strikes and damages another, does not of
itself make her liable for the injury; the collision must in some
degree be occasioned by her fault. A ship properly secured
may, by the violence of a storm, be driven from her moorings
and forced against another vessel, in spite of her efforts to avoid
it. Yet she certainly would not be liable for damages which
it was not in her power to prevent. So also ships at sea, from
storm or darkness of the weather, may come in collision with
one another, without fault on either side; and in that case,
each must bear its own loss, although one is much more injured
than the other. This was decided by this court in the case of
Stainback et al. v. Rae et al., (14 How., 582;) and the decision
placed upon the ground that neither of them had committed a
*fault, and could not therefore justly be charged with any portion of the injury which the other had sustained. And asthis
collision was forced upon the John Fraser by thb controlling
power and mismanagement of the steam-tug, and not. by any .
fault or negligence on her part, she ought not to be answerable
for the consequences.
The result of this opinion isi that the loss mut be equally

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

195

Innurance Co. of th Tralley of Virginia v. Mordecai.

divided between the James Gray and the General Clinch,
according to the rule laid down by this court in the case of the
Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al., (17 How., 170.)
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed; and
the case remanded, with directions to adjust the loss upon the
principles stated in this opinion.We do not assent to so much of this opinion as makes the
"James Gray" liable for negligence, merely for want of exact
conformity to port regulations.
S. NELSONV.
R. C. GRIER.
NATHAN CLIFFORD.

THE INsurAIWEn CoMPANY oF THE VALLEY Or VIRGInIA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR; V. MOSES C. MORDECAI.
A writ of error must be made returnable to the first day of the term, which is now
the first Monday in December. If made returnable to any subsequent day, it
is erroneous, and will be dismissed on motion. It cannot be amended.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the western district of Virginia.
It was an action of debt, brought by Mordecai, (a citizen of
South Carolina,) upon a judgment which he had obtained
against the insurance company, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of South Carolina. 'A judgment. was given also for Mordecai in the Circuit Court- of Virginia,
from which the insurance company sued out a writ of error in
October, 1858, which was made returnable to this court on the
"second Monday in January next," (being the second Minday
in January, 1859.)
Mr. Phllipsmoved to dismiss the writ of error, on the ground
that the writ was not made returnable according to law, and
in support of the motion gave the following reasons:

