SUPREME COURT.
Alle et at.v. NewbeMr.

that suit, and who had conveyed to Gruenhagin before it was
commenced.
Hubbard's equitable title being distinct from the legal title
in controversy between Orton and Knab, no reason existed
why it should not be the subject of a bonajfe sale, and transfer by deed, in like manner that a mortgagor's equity may be
sold and conveyed. After a mortgage debt is discharged, the
mortgagor or his assignee may compel the mortgagee or his
assignee to surrender the legal title. And that is substantially
the case the bill makes; for after Hubbard satisfied Schram's
bond made for title by Knab and Butler, Knab held the naked
legal title, with an undoubted right in Hubbard to call for its
surrender. And his assignee stands on the same footing. (4
Kent's Com., 157.) And so the statutes of Wisconsin in effect
provide. (Revised- Statutes of 1849, ch. 59, sec. 7 ; ch. 77,
sees. 6 and 7.)
We are of the opinion that the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the bill, and order the decree to be reversed, and remand the cause, with directions that the District
Court proceed in it according to the 34th rule of this court,
governing chancery proceedings.

IUthFUS

ALLEN

HENRY L.

AND

OTHERS,

NEWBERRY,

LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS,

CLAIMANT

V.

OF THE STEAMBOAT FASH-

-ION, &0.

The act of Congress passed on the 26th of February, 1845, (5 Stat. at L., 726,)
confines the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts upon the lakes to matters of contract and tort arising in, upon, or concerning steamboats and other
vessels employed in the business of commerce and navigation between ports
and places in different States and Territories upon the lakes.
It does not extend, therefore, to a case where there was a shipment of goods from
a port in a State to another port in the same State, both being in Wisconsin.
And this is so, although the vessel was a general ship, and bound, upon the voy.
age in question, to Chicago, a port in the State of Illinois.
What would be done in a.case of general average, the court does not nowdecide.

Tars was an appeal fiom the District Court of the United
States for the district of Wisconsin, sitting in admiralty.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
.Ae etd. v. Nwbenyj.

The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court."
It was argued by Mr. Haven for the appellants, and by Hr.
.Russell for the'appellee.
The question of jurisdiction was not discussed. in the argument, and it is not necessary to report the arguments upon the
merits.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty from a decree of the, District
Court for the district of Wisconsin.
The libel states that the goods in question were shipped on
board the Fashion at the port of Two Rivers, in the State of
Wisconsin, to be delivered at the port of Milwaukee, in the
same State, and that the master, by reason of negligence and
the unskilful navigation of the vessel, and of her unseaworthiness, lost them in the course of the voyage.
The respondent sets up, in the answer, the seaworthiness of
the vessel, and that the goods were jettisoned in a storm upon
the lake.
The evidence taken in the court below was directed principally to these two grounds of defence; but, in the view the
court has taken of the case, it will not be important to notice it.
The act of Congress of 26th February, 1845, prescribing and
regulating the jurisdiction of the Federal courts in admiralty
upon the lakes, and which was held by this court in the case
of the Genesee Chief, (12 How., 443,) to be valid and binding,
confines that jurisdiction to "matters of contract and tort,
arising in, upon, or concerning. steamboats and other vessels"
*
*
*
"employed in business of c6mmerce and navigation between ports and places in different States and Territories upon the lakes, and navigable waters connecting said
lakes," &c.
This restriction of'the jurisdiction to business carried on
between ports and places in different States was doubtless suggested by the limitation in the Constitution of the power in
The words are: "Congress
Congress to regulate commerc.

SUPREME COURT.
Alln et al. v. Newberry.

shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes." In
the case of Gibbon v. Ogden, (9 Wh., 194,) it was held, that
this power did not extend to the purely internal commerce of
a State. Chief Justice Marphall, in delivering the opinion of
the court in that case, observed: "It is not intended to say
that these words comprehend that commerce which is completely internal, which is carried on between man and man in
a State, or between parts of the same State, and whicl dons not
extend to or affect other States." Again, he observes: "The
genius and character of-the whole Government seem to be,
that its action is to be applied to all the external concerns of
the nation, and to those internal concern' which affect the States
generally, but not to-these which are completely within a partitlar State, when they do not affect other States, and with
which it is not necessary to interfere for the purpose of executing some of the general powers of the Government. The completely internal commerce of a State, then, he observes, may
be considered as reserved for the State itself." (Ib., 195.)
This distinction in the aet of 1845 is noticed by the present
Chief Justice in delivering the opinion in the Genesee Chief.
He observed: "The act of 1845 extends only to such vessels
wheu they are engaged in commerce between the States and
Territories. It does not apply to vessels engaged in the domestic commerce of a State."'
This restriction of the admiralty jurisdiction was asgerted in
the case of the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company v. The
Merchants' Bank, (6 How., 892,) the first case in which the
jurisdiction was upheld by this court upon a contract of
affreightment.
It was then remarked, that "the exclusive jurisdiction of
the court in admiralty cases was conferred on the National
Government, as closely connected with'the grant of the commercial power. It is a maritime court, instituted for the purpose of administering the law of the seas. There seems to be
ground, therefore, for restraining- its jurisdiction, in some measure, within the limit of the grant of the -commercial. power,
which would confine it,-in- cases of contract, to those concern-

DECEMBER TERM 1858.
Allen dt Al v. NewbrV.

ing the navigation and trade of the country upon the high
seas, &c., with foreign countries and among the several States.
" Contracts growing out of the purely internal commerce of
the State, &c., are generally domestic in their origin and operation, and could scarcely have been intended to be drawn
within the cognizance of the Federal courts."
The contract of shipment in this case was for the transportation of the goods from the port of Two Rivers to the port of
Milwaukee, both in the State of Wisconsin; and upon the principles above stated, the objection to the jurisdiction of the court
below would be quite clear, were it not for the circumstance
that the vessel at the time of this shipment was engaged in a
voyage to Chicago, a port in another State. She was a general ship, with an. assorted cargo, engaged in a general carrying business between ports of diffierent States; and there is
some ground for saying, upon the words of the act of 1845,
that the contracts over which the jurisdiction is conferred, are
contracts of shipment with a vessel engaged in the business of
commerce between the ports of different States. Butthe court
is of.opinion that this is not the true construction and import
of the act. On the contrary, that the contracts mentioned relate to the goods carried as well as to the vessel, and that the
shipment must be made between ports of different States.
This view of the act harmonizes with the limitation of the
jurisdiction as expressed, independently, of any act of Congress, in the case of New Jersey Steam Navigation Company
v. The Merchant's Bank, before referred to.
We confine our opinion upon the question of jurisdiction
to the case before. us, namely, to the suit upon the contract of
shipment of goods between ports and places of the same State.
The court is of opinion that the District Court had no jurisdiction over it in admiralty, and that the jurisdiction belonged
to the courts of the State.
It may be, that in respect to a vessel like the present, having cargo on board to be carried between ports of the same
State, as well as between ports of different States, in cases 6f
sale or bottomry of a cargo for relief of the vessel in distress, of
voluntary stranding of the ship, jettison, and the like, where

SUPREME COURT.
Maguire v. Card.

contribution and general average arise, that the Federal courts
shall be obliged to deal incidentally with the subject, the question being influenced by the common peril in which all parties
in interest are concerned, and to which ship, freight, and cargo,
as the case may be, are liable to contribute their share of the
loss.
A small part of the goods in question in this case were
shipped for the port of Chicago, but are not of sufficient value
to warrant an appeal to this court.
The decree of the court below dismissing the libel affirmed.
Mr. Justice WAYNTE, Mr. Justice CATROK, and Mr. Justice GRIIER, dissented.
Mr. Justice DANIEL concurs in the decree for the dismission of the libel in this case, but not for the reasons assigned
by the court. It being my opinion, as repeatedly declared,
that the admiralty jurisdiction, under the Constitution of the
United States, is limited to the high seas, and does not extend
to the internal waters of the United States, whether extending
to different States or comprised within single States. If there
be any inefficiency in this view of the admiralty powers of the
Government, the fault is chargeable on the Constitution, and
on the want of foresight in those who framed that instrument,
and it can be legitimately remedied by an amendment of the
Constitution only.

THomS MAGUIRE, CLAIMANT OF THE STEAMER GoLIAX, APPEL.
LANT, V. STEPHEN CARD, LIBELLANT.
As this court has decided at the present term (see the preceding case of Allen v.
Newberry) that a contract of affreightment between ports and places within
the same State is not the subject of admiralty jurisdiction, so it, now decides
that a contract for suppliesfurnished to a vessel engaged in such a trade is
subject to the same limitation.
A rule in admiralty, adopted at the present term, takes -fromthe Distribt Courts
the right of proceeding in rem against a domestic vessel for supplies and repairs, which had been assumed upon the authority of a lien given by State
laws.

The reason of the rule explained.

