SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of French and Wife v. Spencer et at.

must be affirmed. But it must at the same time be understood that this court express no opinion as to the facts or tbe
law as decided by.the Circuit Court, and that the whole case
is open to re-examination and revision here, if the questions
of fact or law should hereafter be brought legally before us,
and in a shape that would enable this court to exercise its appellate jurisdiction.

LESSEE OF WILLIAM

ROR, V. WILLIAM
ANNA A.

C. FRENCH
IH. SPENCER,

AND WIFE, PLAINTIFF IN ERJUN., JOSEPH SPENCER, AND

SPENCER.

By an act of Congress passed in 1816, (3 Stat. at L., 256,) a bounty in land was
given to those American citizens who were living in Canada at the time when
war was declared against Great Britain, in 1812, and who returned to the service of their country.
This act was not like other bounty-land acts, by which the Government undertook to locate the bounty land. Under the act first mentioned, the warrants
were delivered to the owners to be located by them, and were therefore assignable after an entry was made inthe Land Office.
The deed of conveyance in question was sufficient to pass the interest of the
grantor.

A patent issued to the original beneficiary, who had previously sold his right,
enured to the benefit of the purchaser, and related back to the date of the entry; and the heir of the grantor in such a deed is estopped from setting up a
legal title under the patent.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
It was an ejectment brought by French'and wife, to recover
an undivided- half of three hundred and twenty acres of land
in the county ofoVigo, in Indiana.
Upon the trial, the evidence offered by the plaintiff was as
follows:
1. Evidence -that one Silas Fosgit, who had been a Canadian
volunteer in the army of the United -States in the last war with
Great Britain, had died between the 28t6 of June, 1816, and
the 29th day of June, 1823, and that his only heirs at law were
Minerva French, (.wife of said William C. French,) residing in
the State of Michigan, and one Artina Fosgit..

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
SLessee

229

of French and Wife v. Spencer et aZ.

2. A copy of a'patent, dated on the 26th of October, 1816,
to. Silas Fosgit, for two quarter sections of land in the district
of Vincennes.
The evidence offeied by the defendants was as follows:
1. The original patent abbve mentioned, which had been
deposited by one Abraham Markle with George Homer in
1817, who delivered the same to the defendants in 1854.
2. Evidenc6 that they were the only children and heirs at
law of one William H. Spencer, sen., who died in 1852, and
also that the warrant was located upon the lands in dispute, by
Abraham Markle, on the 3d of June, 1816.
8. The deed or assignment from Fosgit to Spencer, duly
proved. As the couit considered this assignment sufficient to
convey the land, it may be as well to insert it, viz:
"Whereas I, the undersigned, Silas Fosgit, late a private in
the corps of Canadian volun teers, co mmanded by Lieutenant
Colonel Joseph Wilcox, deceased, lately in the service of the
United States of America, according to the provisions of an
act of Congress of the United States of America, passed March
5th, 1816, entitled 'An act granting bounties in lands and extra
pay to certain Canadian volunteers,' having applied for, have
obtained a warrant, issued by the Secretary of the Department of War, for the location of three hundred and twenty
acres of land within the Indiana Territory, agreeably to the
directions of said act:
"3. ow, know all men by these presents, that I, the said Silas
Fosgit, for and in consideration of the sum of five hundred
dollars to me in hand paid by William H. Spencer, Esquire,. of
Genesee, in the county of Ontario, and State of ew York, the
rec6ipt whereof I do hereby confess and acknowledge, have
assigned and set over, and by these presents do grant, bargain,
sell, transfer, assign, dnd set over, to said William H. Spencer,
his heirs and assigns, forever, the said three hundred and twenty
-acres of land; to have and to hold the same, in'as full and
'ample manner asl, the said Silas. Fosgit, my heirs or assigns,
might or could enjoy the same by virtue of the said warrakt
or otherwise. And I do, for myself, my heirs and assigns,

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of French and Wife v. Spencer et aZ.

hereby authorize and empower the said William Ht. Spencer,
his heirs and assigns, to make location of the said lands under
and by virtue of the said warrant, and agreeably to the directions of the said act; and upon location thereof being made as
aforesaid, to demand and receive a patent or deed of and for
the said lands, in his own name, and for his sole use, benefit,
and behoof; to the which end and intent I, the said Silas Fosgit, have and do make, ordain, constitute, and appoint the said
William H. Spencer, his heirs and assigns, my true and lawful
ittorney and attorneys, irrevocable, to ask, require, demand,
and receive the said deed or patent. of and for the said land,
and also to make location thereof, and one or more attorney
or attorneys under him to constitute; and whatsoeverthe said
William H. Spencer or his attorney or attorneys shall lawfully
do in the premises, I, the said Silas, do hereby allow and confirm.
':In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and
seal, this 28th day of June, 1816.
" SILAS FOSGIT. [sEi.]
"In presence ofGE1oGE HORNER."

The counsel for the plaintiff objected to the reading of this
deed in evidence, for the following reasons, viz:
-1. Because said writing is upon its face void, as being in
violation of the acts of Congress touching the subject of boun.ties in lands for military services, and against the public policy
of the United States on that subject.
2. Because said writing, on a fair legal construction of its
terms, conveys no. legal title (and, indeed, no title at all, of any
kind) to the lands in question.
8. Because said writing is irrelevant, and incompetent as
evidence in this cause.
But the court allowed it to be read, and instructed the jury
that it furnished a conclusive defence to the action. Whereupon the plaintiff objected, and brought the. case up to this
court.
It was argued by ffr. Thompson for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. Bennett for the defendants in error.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

931

Lewee of Frenh and Wife v. Spncer et al.

The counsel for the plaintiff in error contended thaf the
warrant was not assignable by the acts of Congress, under
which it was issued; that the deed was not, in point of fact,
an assignment of the warrant; that the warrant had been located on the 3d of June, twenty-five days before the paper was
executed; that the paper-did not amount to a conveyance of
land; that it did not purport so to be; and that, if it were intended to be a deed of conveyance, it was void for uncertainty
in the designation and description of the land. Upon the
point whether the assignment related back to the date of the
entry, the counsel for the. plaintiff remarked:
But if it had been designed as a deed of conveyance, it did
not convey the legal estate to Spencer, for Fosgit, at that time,
had no such estate to convey. He could convey no higher.
estate than he had, and, if he had none in the particular land,
he could convey none.
Coke, sec. 446.
Hillard's Ab., 309, see. 25.
The patent was not issued until October 26, 1816-four
months after this paper was executed-and, until then, the
legal title was in the United States.
Foley v. Harrison, 15 How., 447.
Dubois -v. Newman, 4 Wash. C. C. R., 77.
Wilcox v. Jackson, 18 Pet., 516.
Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229.
Irvine v. Marshall & Barton, 20 How., 558.
If the legal title was .in -the United States till October 26,
1816, this paper could not have conveyed such a title to Spencer, on the 28th of June before that, as would have availed him
then, or hi3 heirs now, in an action of ejectment.
Baynelv. 3roderick, 18 Pet., 436.
*It is'of no avail to say that, the moment the entry was made,
the title so vested in Fosgit. as that he could convey. What
title ? 'Not the/lega/ title, certainly, for that, upon the authority of the foreg6ing cases, was ifi the tnited States. The most
'that could be claimed for him would be a lnre equity; ind it
might well be questioned, if it were necessary in this action,
whether he hhd :even an equitable title to any particular land.

232

SUPREME COURT.
L&see of Frec1, and Fife v. Speucei dt al.

The language of the act granting these bounty jands is, that
the .party "shall be entitled to three hundred -and twenty
acres," &c. This grants nothing; no title passes by it. He
shall be entitled to it when bie shall get a warrant, select the
land, have the selection confirmed, and get a-patent. Al this
has to be done before he can have any title at all, and, until it
is-done, the title remains 'in the Government. If, therefore,
he could sell or assign. anything before all this was done, it
,could not be any title in the land, whatever else it moight be.
If, then, this instrument is a deed of conveyance at all, it
conveys at most but tn equity, which does not avail the defendants in this action. If that vere conceded to be its import,
it would amount to nothing more than an executory contract
to convey the legal estate, at some.-future time.
But, again, if it is-conceded to be.a deed of.conveyance, it is
a quit-claim .nerely by vhich Fosgit parted only with the
equitble estate'he possessed at its date. .Therefore, the Cir
cuit Court erred in deciding that the subsequent legal estte
which Fbsgit acquired by the patent had relation back to the
date of this instrument , and ripened the equity which Spencer
acquired thereby into a legal title. A subsequently-acquired
estate does not pass.where there -are no covenants of title.
Yan Renssellear-v. Kearney,- 11 How., 297.
Pelletren v. Jackson, 11 Wend., 116..
Jackson v. Waldron, 13 Wend.; 212. "
The United States never parted with the legal title to this
land till the patent.was issued, October 26, 1816. :By that act,.
the title passed to Fosgit and consequently taust remain in
his heirs, unless conveyed away by him- or them. It is not
pretended that this has been done by the heirs, and Fosgit
himself could not.have done it, before he had it, except by deed
with warranty of title. He made-no such deed.
It is,. however, insisted that it is to be Tre.nmed, from lapse
of time, that the legal estate has been couveyed to Spencer.
This- abandons the ground that tie i'ntrumeut of-June 28,
1816, is a conveyance, 0and treats it as -an executory contract to
convey, and yields the point upon whih the case was decided
in the Circuit Court.

DECE MBER TERM, 1858.
Lessee of French and Wife v. sSpencer et ad.

This presumption, that a deed was executed by Fosgit to
Spencer, does not arise inthe ease as it now stands. The case
turned, in the court below, upon the single question -of the
validity and effect of the paper of June 28, 1816; and"both the
instruction of the court and the bill of exceptions show this.
It will be an easy matter to show that no such presumption
can be indulged in this case, if that question shall ever arise.
There is nothing to' base it upon. Itis not shown that tventy
years have elapsed since Fosgit was in a condition to execute
the agreement to convey.
3 Phill. on Ev,, Cow..and Hill's Notes, 505, andcases cited.
Nor that he ever knew that the- legal estate had passed to
him by the issuance of the patent, or that, after his death, his
heirs ever knew it. The disability and ignorance of the part
always repel presumptions.
3 Phill. on Ev., 0. and TH's Notes, 49T.
3 John. 0. R., 129.
Hurst's Lessee v. McNeil, 1 Wash. C. C. R., TO.
Henderson v. Hamilton, 1 Hall's Rep., 314.
And, besides all this, there is no pretence of twenty years.
possession, claiming under adverse title.
8 Phill. on Ev., C. and H., 496, and authorities cited.
3 Green R., 120.
But, until this question shall properly arise, it will be premature to discuss it.
The counsel for the defendants in error made the following
oints upon the leading questions decided by-this court:
I. By the issuing-and, location of his warrant for three hundred and twenty acres, Fosgit had title. to the land, under theact "granting bounties to the Canadian volunteers;" and his
deed to Spencer, who paid'him five hundred dollars for it, wts.
valid and effectual, as between the partids, to convey hie right
aid title, even if no patent had ever issued. And the law was
so held at the time. (No patent was. required under this act;
the grant, the warrant, and location, made the title perect.)
Statutes, vol. 8, p. 256.
Laws of Iudiana, 1807, 539, ch. 38.

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of FrenchL and Wife v. Spencer et al.

13 Peters, 498; 2 Wheaton, 196.
3 Ohio R., 107; 16 J. .R.,172, 178.
8 J. R., 315, 60, 81; 10 J. R., 456.
3 Stat. at Large, 641.
I. The patent was merely a formal (and unnecessary) evidence of this title, and, when issued, related back to the date
of the act, (or the entry upon the land,) and would inure to
the bhenefit of a bonafide purchaser.
3 Caines R., 62; 2 J. R., 80.
12 J. IR., 140; 3 McLean's R., 109.
10 How., 372, 373; 5 Port., 237, 245.
1II. Fosgit and his heirs ar6 estopped from disputing Spencer's title.
1. By the deed.
11 I-ow., 322, 323, 325; 6 Ind. R., 128.
7 How., 430; 9 Wend., 229.
1 Barb., 610; 4 Denio, 480.
3 Comstock, 276; 18 ]How., 82, 85.
The recitals in the deed to Spencer are equivalent to an
assertion that Fosgit had title to the three hundred and twenty
acres of land which he conveyed to Spencer. By this, Fosgit
and his heirs are bound as much as if the deed contained 9 covenant of warranty.
11 How., 322, 323, 325; 18 How., 82, 85.
A deed, with covenants, would have passed an after-acquired
title. This deed is just as effectual, for it estops the plaintiff
from asserting an after-acquired title against defendants.
2. By receiving and retaining the five hundred dollars paid
by Spencer for the land.
7 Harris, 430; 8 Wend., 480.
2 Hill, 64; 1 Denio, 169.
2 Denio, 139; 3 J. Ch.R., 23.
3. By the irrevocable power of attorney given to Spencer,
that he might require and receive any further deed or patent
necessary to secure his title for his "sole use and benefit." This
patent, when obtained, was to be for Spencer's benefit. Attempting to use it for Fosgit's was a fraud, and the doctrine of estoppe applies. The instructions of the court were therefore right.

DECEMBER TERM, 1$58.
L see of French and Wife v. Spewcer et al.

6 Indiana R., 128, 289; 7 do., 301.
17. The deed was not in violation of. agy act of Congress.
The act "granting land to the Canadian volunteers" did not
forbid a transfer of the warrant or a sale of the land. Statutes; vol. 3, p. 256.
The acts afterwards passed do not include the Cauadian
volunteers, but are confined to enlisted soldiers. 'This is conceded as to all acts framed before April 16,.1816. That act
could not defeat the vested rights acquired under the act of
March 5, 1816.
7 John., 477;. 7 Barb., 445.
The act of 16th April, 1816, does not embrace the Canadian
volunteers. A special act providing for a particular case is
not changed by general words in another act; effec.t should be
given to both. It applies only to soldiers enlisted during the
late war.
3 Stat. at L, 287, sec. 5.
A prohibition against assigning the warrant,or selling the
land, after the grant was made, would have been void. It would have improperly interfered with private property.
and vested rights.
Congress settled this question by the act of 3d March, 1821.
3 Stat. at I., 641; 1 Indiana R., 342.
This act, in effect, declared the opinion of the Attorney General wrong. It confirmed all assignments.or sales of the Canadian volunteers. It was a declaratory act of what the law was,
and was as valid and effectual as to sales made before or after
its passage.
If this act cannot lave a retrospective effect, how can the act
forbidding the sales or assignments, passed after the grant.was
made? If both relate back, or if neither relate back, defendants' riglits are protected. But the act forbidding a transfer
applies only to enlisted sailors.
Besides, Fosgit, by hi agent, Markle, had located the land.
He did not sell the wairant to Spencer, but the "three hundred
and twenty acres of land;" and there is no act of Congress preventing any man from selling his land which he has selected
and located, and a right to take and hold, and which he has

SUPREME COURT
Lessee-ofFre1A and Wife v. Spencr et a7.

taken possession of. Congress has no-power to pass such an
act, nor is there any decision to be found that a patent, when
afterwards issued, in such a case, would not inure to the benet of a bona fide purchaser.
86 Maine, 448.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Silas Fosgitobtained a warrant for three hundred and twenty
acres 'of land as a Canadian volurtaer in the war of 1812 with
Great Britain. This warrant he caused to be located in the
Indiana Territory, June 3,1816, on the land in dispute. On
the twenty-eighth day of that month he conveyed the land to
William. H. Spencer, who died in possession of the same; it
descended to his children and heirs, who continued in possession, and are sued in this action by one of the two heirs of
Fosgit, who died about 1823. A patent was issued by the
'United States .to Fosgit, dated in October, 1816. The deed
from Fosgit to 'Spencer was offered in evidence in the Circuit
Court, on behalf of the defendants, and was objected to:
1st. Because it is void on its face, being in violation of the
acts of Congress touching the subject.of bounty land for military services, and against the policy of the 'United States on
that subject.
2d. Because said writing, on a fair legal'construction of its
terms, conveys no legal title (and indeed no title at all, of any
kind) to the lands in question; and
3d. Because said writing is irrelevant, and incompetent as
evidence in this cause.
The court o-erruled the objections, and permitted the defendants to give the -writing in evidence, and instructed the
jury that it was a complete defence -to the action; to' all of
which the plaintiff excepted.
1. Was the writing void because it was in violation of acts
of Congress touching the sale of bounty lands before the patent
had issued? This depends on a due construction-of the act of
1816. It gave to each colonel nine hundred and sixty acres;
to each major eight hundred acres; to each capfain six hundred
and forty acres; to each subaltern ofcer four hundred acres;

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

237

lessee of Frnc, and Wife v. Spencer et aZ.

to each non-commissioned officer, musician, and private, three
hundred and twenty acres; and to the medical ahd other staff
in proportion to their pay, compared with that of commissioned
officers. Warrants we're ordered to be issued by the Secretary
at War, subject to be located by the owner, in quarter sections,
on lands within the Indiana Territory, surveyed by the United
States at the time of the location. And three 'months additional pay was awarded to this description of troops.
By the acts of 1811, oh. 10, 1812, ch. 14, sec. 12, and that of
May 6, 1812, ch. 77,. see. 2, it was provided that uach" private
and non-commissioned officer, who enlisted in the regular service for live years, and was honotably discharged, and obtained
a certificate from his commanding officer of his faithful service,
should be entitled to a bounty of one hundred and" sixty acres
of land; and that the heirs of those who died in service should
be entitled to the same, to each of whom by name a warrant
was to issue. The act of MLvfay 6, 1812, provided for surveying,
designating, and granting these bounty lands; the fourth seetion of which declares that no claim for military land bounties
shall be assignable or transferable until after the patent has
been granted; and that all sales, mortgages, or contracts, made
prior -to the issu.ing of the patent, shall be void; -nor shall the
lands be subject to execution sale till after the'patent issues.
IIt is insisted that this provision accompanies
and is part of
the act of .1816, and several opinions of -fr. Attorney General
•Wirt are relied on to sustain the position that the acts granting
bounty lands are in par!materia, and must be construed alike.
He gave an opinion in 1819, (2 L. L., -and Opinion 6,) that a
land warrant issued to a Canadian volunteer was not- assignable on its face, or in its :nature, and consequently that the
patent must issue in the name of the soldier. But be-did not
decide, n6r was he called on to do so, that, after the warrant
had bden located and merged in the enty, that the equitable
title and right of lpossession to the land could not be transferred by contract.
The act .of 1816 involves considerations, different fronr the
previous provisions, for the protection of the enlisted common
soldier., A class of active, efficient, American citizens, who

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of French and Wife v. Spencer et al.

had emigrated to Canada, were compelled to leave there on
the war of 1812 breaking out; they returned to their own
country, and went into its service; and when the war was
ended, both officers and soldiers were compensated in landr
aud money fot this extraordinary service. The act of Congress orders the warrants to be delivered to the respective,
owners, to be located by them; whereas the common soldier,
provided for in the acts of 1811 and 1812, did not receive his
warrant, but the Government bound itself to locate the land
at its own expense. Congress may have thought it not at all
necessary to guard the Canadian volunteers against being
overreached by speculators, ahd deprived of their bounty
lands. - This, however, is mere conjecture. The act of March
5, 1816, has no reference to, or necessary connection with, any
other bounty-land act; it is plain on its face, and single in its
purpose. And, then, what is the rule? One that cannot be
departed from without assuming on part of the judicial tribunals legislative power. It is, that where the Leoislature makes
a plain provision, without making any exception, the courts
can make none. McIver v. Reagain, 2 Wheaton, 25; Patton
v. McClure, Martin and Yerger's Ten. R., 345, and cases cited;
Cocke & Jack 2. McGinnis, ib., 365; Smith v. Troup, 20
Johns., 33. We are therefore of the opinion that Fosgit could
sell and convey the land to Spencer after the entry was made.
2. The next ground of objection to the deed is, that it conveys no title when fairly construed. It has a double- aspect,
obviously, for the reason that the parties to it did not know,
at the time it was executed, whether or not the land had been
located by Fosgit's agent. The issuing of the warrant is recited in the deed, and the quantity of land it calls for; and
then the grantor says: "For the consideration of five hundred
dollars, I have assigned and set over, and by these presents do
grant, bargain, sell, transfer, assign, and set over, to said William H. Spencer, his heirs and assigns, forever, the said three
hundred and twenty acres of land; to have and to hold the
same in as full and ample a manner as I, the said Silas Fosgit,
my heirs or assigns, might or could enjoy the same, by virtue
of the said land warrant or otherwise."

DEC'IVBER TERM, 1858.

289

Les~e of Frene?, and Fife v. '.Zpencer et dl.

Then follows an irrevocable power from Fosgit to Spencer,
his 'heirs or assigns, to locate the warrant, obtain a patent, &c.
The warrant having been located on land already' surveyed,
it could easily be identified. The description is to the same
effect as if the deed had said, I convey the land covered by my
warrant of three hundred and twenty acres.
We are therefore of the opinion that the deed was a valid
conveyance. of Fosgit's interest in the land sr, ed for at the time.
the deed was executed.
The third exception to the deed is covered by the foregoing
answers.
3. The charge of the court to the jury held, as a matter of
law, that the deed was a complete defence to the action, and
that the patent issued to Fosgit related back to the location of
the warrant, and constituted part of Spencer's title.
This consideration involves a question of great practical importance to States and Territories where entries exist on which
patents have not issued, as sales of such titles are usual and
numerous. The incipient state of such titles has not presented
any material inconvenience, as it is usually provided by State
laws that suits in ejectment may be prosecuted or defended by
virtue of the title.
In Indiana, it is provided by statute that "every certificate.
of purchase at a land office of the United States shall be evidence of legal title to the land therein described." That is to
say, for the purposes of alienation and transfer, and for the'
purposes of litigating rights of property and possession, a certificate of purchase shall be treated as a legal title; and to this
effect it is competent evidence in an action of ejectment. Smith.
v. Mosier, 5 Black. R., 51.
After the patent issued, this title was exclusively subject to
State regulations, in so far as remedies were provided for its

enforcement or protection; and therefore no objection can be
made to any State law that does not impugn the title acquired
from the United States.
Whether the patent related back in support of Spencer's
deed is not a new question in this court. It arose in the case
of Landes v. Brant, (10 How., 372,) where it was held that a

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of .Frenchand Wife v. Spencer et ca.

patent issued in 1845 "to Claymorgan and his heirs," by which
the heiks took the legal title, related back and inured to the
protection of a title founded on a sheriff's sale of Claymorgan's
equitable interest, made in 1808. There, as here, the contest
was between the grantee's heirs and the purchaser of the incipient title. The court holding, that when the patent issued,
it related to the inception of title, and must be taken, as between the parties to the suit, to bear date with the commencement of title.
It is also the settled doctrine of this court, that an entry in a
United States land office on which a patent issues, (no matter
how long after the entry is made,) shall relate to the entry, and
take date with it. (Ross v. Barland, 1 Peters, 655.) Thefiction of
relation is, that an intermediate bonafide alienee of the incipient interest may claim that the patent inures to his benefit by
an ex postfacto operation, and receive the same protection at
law that a court of equity could afford him.
4. We hold that, on another ground, the instruction was
clearly proper.
Here, the after-acquired naked fee is set up to defeat Fosgit's
deed, made forty years ago in good faith, for a full consideration, and to oust the possession of Spencer's heirs, holding
under that deed. The rule has always been,that where there
was a warranty or covenants for title, that would cau'se circuity of action if the vendee6 was evicted by the vendor, then
the deed worked an estoppel. But the rule has been carried
further, and is now established, that where the grantor sets
forth on the face of his conveyance, by averment dr recital,
that he is seized of a particular estate in the premises, and
which estate the deed purports to convey, the grantor, and all
persons in privity with him shall be estopped from ever afterwards denying that he was seized and .possessed at the time he
made the conveyance. The estoppel works upon the estate,
and binds an after-acqiuired title, as between parties and
privies. Van Rensselaer v. Kearney, 11- How., p25; Landes v.
Brant, 10 How., 37-4.
It follows that the heir of Fosgit is estopped by her father's
deed from disturbin' th* title or possession.of Spercer's'heirs.

DECEMBER TER,

1858.

241"

Smih v. Ortom

It is ordered that the judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.

GEORGE SMIH, APPELLANT, v. JoHN J. ORToN.
After various proceedings in the mode of deeds, bonds, &c., the legal title to a
piece of property became vested in one person, and the equitable title in another.
The holder of the equitable title has a right to file a bill against the holder of the
legal title, to compel him to convey such legal title upon clearing off the encumbrances.
This right is not destroyed by the circumstance that the holder of the legal title
had succeeded in a suit against another holder of the legal title, to which suit
the holder of the equitable title was not a party.
The fact that neither party is in actual p6ssession of the premises is of no epusequence, because the controversy is with respect to the legal title.

THIs was an appeal fiom the District Court of the United
States for the district of Wisconsin.
It was before this court at a prior term, and. is reported in
18 Howard, 263. It is proper to remark that the bill, in this
case, set forth that the controversy in the State court, which
was referred to in 18 Howard, had become terminated.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. -Doolittlefor the appellant, upon which
side there was also a brief by ffr. Brown, and by,Zr. Gillet
for the appellee, upon which side there was also a brief by fr.
Mariner.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill was demurred to, and the demurrer sustained below,
and the facts appear only on the face of the bill. Davis held
the legal title to the two lots (Nos. 7 and 8) in dispute, lying in
or near the city of Milwaukee, in the State of Wisconsin. Davis
held the legal title as trustee for Otis Hubbard. In June, 1851,
Hubbard, for a good and valuable consideration, conveyed the
premises to Joachim Gruenhagin, by a deed in fee, by which
the grantee became seized of the entire interest of Hubbard.
VOL. XX.

16

