DECEMBER TERI, 1858.

575

White v. ermont and .lassachusettsRailroad Company.

1. Because the officer in charge of her deck did not exercise
proper vigilance to ascertain the character of the approaching
vessel after he discovered the white lights, which subsequently
proved to be the white lights of the propeller.
2. That she was also in fault because the officer of her deck
did not seasonably and effectualt change the course of the
vessel, or slow or stop her engines, after he discovered- those
lights, so as to prevent a collision.
3. That she. was also in fault because she did not have a vigilant and sufficient look-out.
Our reasons for these conclusions are filly stated in the
former case, and need not be repeated, Having already decided that the propeller also was in fault, the necessary result is,
that the decision of the Circuit Court was correct.
The decree of the Circuit Court, therefore, is affirmed, without costs.
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
,-See dissent in the preceding case.

SELDEN

F. WHrE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE VERmoNT ADW
MASSACHUSETTS RAILROAD COmPANY.

Bonds issued by a railroad company in Massachusetts, payable in blank, no payee
being inserted, and issued to a citizen of Massachusetts, which had passed
through several intervening holders, could be filled up by a citizen of New
Hampshire, payable to himself or order, and then suit could be maintained
upon them in the Circuit Court of the United States for Massachusetts.
The eleventh section of the judiciary act does not hpply to such a case.
The usage and practice of railroad companies, and of the capitalists and business
men of the country, and decisions of coirts, have made this class of securities
negotiable instruments.
The later English authorities upon this point overruled.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.

The facts are stated in the opinion of"the court.

SUPREME COURT.
White v. Vermont and Massachusetts Railroad Company.

It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Parker for
the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Hutchins for the defendant.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of errbr to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts.
The suit was brought in the court below by the plaintiff,
White) against the company, upon several bonds issued by
theThe
same.
case was presented to the court upon an agreed state
of
issued
were
in
question
the
bonds
that
others,
and,
-among
facts,
by the company, in regular course, and for a sufficient consideration and that payment had been demanded and refused.
Coupons for the accruing interest, previous to the maturity of
the bonds, had been duly paid.
It was further agreed that bonds of this description, issued
by. the company, were sold in the market, and passed from
hand to hand by delivery, at prices varying according to the
state of the market; and that those in question were issued at
or about their date, to a person a citizen of Massachusetts, and
were payable in blank, no payee being inserted; that they
came into the hands of the plaintiff through several intervening holders, in regular course; and that he then and since
lived in the State of lNew Hampshire, and, before this suit was
brought, filled up the blank by inserting "Selden F. 'White,
or order," the name of plaintiff, without the knowledge or
consent of the defendants.
The court ruled that the suit could not be sustained, for
want of jurisdiction.
The ground upon which this ruling below is sought to be
maintained is, that these bonds were issued to citizens of
Massachusetts; and as they could not be regarded as negotiaole instruments, or, if negotiable, not payable to bearer, the
plaintiff was disabled from suing in the Federal court, within
the prohibition of the eleventh section of the judiciary act.
(15 Pet. R., 125 ; 2 ib., 818; 3 How., 574; 8 ib., 441.)
In answer to this ground, we think it quite clear, on looking
into the agreed state of facts, in connection with the bonds and

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

577

White~ v. 'Fermon and Mssach~usetts Railroad, Com~pany.

the mortgage given to secure their payment, that it was the

intention of the company, by issuing the bonds in blank, to
make them negotiable, and payable to the holder, as beaker,
and that the holder might -fillup the blank with his own name,
or make them payable to -himself or bearer, or to order. In
other words, the company intended, by the blank, to leave the
holder his option as to the form or character of negotiability,
-without restriction. If the utmost latitude, in this respect,
was not intended, why leave the payee in blkuk when igsuing"
the bonds, or why not fix the limit of negotiability, or negative it altogether? To adopt any .other conclusion would
seem to us to be unjust to the company, for then the blank
would be wholly unmeaning; or if any, a meaning calculated,
if not intended, to embarrass the title of the holder.
Assuming, then, that these-b6nds were intended to be made
negotiable, we do not see the difficulty suggested in maintaining the suit in the Federal court; for, until the plaintiff ch6se
to fill up the blank, he is to be regarded as holding the bonds
as bearer, and held them in this character till made payable to
himself or order. At that time he was a citizen of New Hampshire, and, therefore, competent to bring the suit in the court
below.
As to the negotiability of this class of securities, when shown
to be intended that they should possess this character by the
form in which issued, and mode of giving them circulation, we
think the usage and practice of the companies themselves, and
of the capitalists and business men of the country, dealing in
them, as well as the repeated decisions or recognition of the
principle by courts and judges of the highest respectability,
have settled thequestion. (Moioris Canal Co. v. Fisher, 1 Stockton, 667, 699; Delafield v. State of Ilinois, 2 Hill N. Y., 177;
8 Paige Ch.R., 527, S. C.; Mich.'Bank*v. N. Y. and N. H. Rt. R.
Co., 3 Kern R.,625; Qair v. Le Fevre, 27 Penn R., '418; Craig
v. The City of Vicksburg, 81 Miss. R., 216; Chester W. Chapin
-v. The Vt. and Mass. R. R. Co., decided Sept'. 7,:1857, in Sup.
C. of Mass.)
Indeed, without conceding to them the qualify of fiegotiability, much of the value of these securities in the market, and
87
vOL. xx.

SUPREME COURT.
White v. Fermont and Hassacusetts Railroad Company.

as a means of furnishing the funds for the accomplishment of
many of the greatest and most useful enterprises of the day,
would be impaired. Within the last few years, large masses
of them have gone into general circulation, and in which capitalists have invested their money; and it is not too much to
say, that a great share of the confidence they have acquired,
as a desirable security for investment, is attributable to this
negotiable quality, as well on account of the facility of passing
from hand to hand, as the protection afforded to the bona -fide
holder.
It is true that in England the law is, that a bond delivered in
blank, as it respects the payee, is void, and the blank incapable of being filled up by the holder, either upon an implied or
express parol authority from the maker. This is maintained
upon the principle that the authority of an agent to make a
deed for another must be by deed; and, also, that to admit the
parol authority to fill up the blank would, in effect, make a
bond transferable and negotiable, like a bill of exchange or
exchequer bill. (ilibble White v. McMorine, 6 Mees. and
Welsb., p. 200; and Enthoven v. Hloyle et al., in the Exch.,-9
Eng. L. and Eq. R., 434.)
The law had been otherwise held by Lord Mansfield, in the
case of Texira v. Evans, cited in Masten v. Miller, (1 Anstruther, 228;) but was'distinctly overruled by Park, B., in delivering the opinion of the court in the case first above cited, and
the opinion reaffirmed by him still more strongly in the second case.
Courts of the highest authority in this country have -followed Lord Mansfield, and have not hesitated to meet the
fears expressed by Park, B., (that the effect would be to make
bonds negotiable,) by admitting the consequence. Chief Justice Marshall, in the case of the United States v. Nelson & Myers, (2 Brock. R., 64,) hesitated to reach this conclusion, but
expressed a strong belief that, at some future day, it would be
by this court.
We think, for the reasons above given, the ruling of the
court'below cannot be upheld, and that the judgment should
oe reversed, with a venire de novo, &c.
-

