SUPREME COURT.
.Iorewuse v. Pkelps.

property by acts of Congress passed subsequently to the origin
of this controv~rsy.
Neither the Constitution of the United States, nor an act of
Congress, or a treaty, was "brought in question" in the lower
court; neither side could have legitimately raised such a question, and called for its decision; and to give this court jurisdiction of the case, in this instance, the question must have
been raised and decided in the lower courts, and it must so
appear on the record. (16 Peters, 281.)
Being of opinion that there is no jurisdiction in this court
to examiie 'and revise the decree of the Supreme Court of
Oregon, we order the appeal to be dismissed.

DICKERSON B.

M REHOUSE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM

A. PHELPS.
By the acts of Congress passed in 1829, (4 Stat. at L., 334,) and 1836, (5 Stat.
at L., 79,) commissioners were to be appointed to hear and determine all

claims to lots of ground in the, town of Galena, Illinois, and to give a certificate
in favor of each person having the right of pre-emption.
Where a person presented his claim as the legal representative of a settler, obtaified the certificate, and afterwards a patent to the legal representatives, it
inured to the benefit of the person who had presented the -claim, obtained the
certificate, paid the money, and procured the patent.
Where this person acted for himself individually, and also as the administrator of
his co-tenant who was dead, it was his duty and right under the laws of the
State, to pay both shares of the purchase-money.
One standing outside, who took no interest in the claim for many years after it
was passed, and then claimed under a deed made by the settler in 1829, alleging that he was the proper legal representative, had not such a title as would
enable him to maintain an action of ejectment.
The cases under incipient Spanish titles do not apply to this case, because the
United States'were the absolute owners of the lots in question, and could dis
pose of them at their pleasure.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Illinois by a writ of error, issued under the twenty-.
fifth section of the judiciary act.
Phelps, who was the plaintiff in the court below, brought an
ejectment for the undivided half of two lots in the town of

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

295

Hlorelwuse v.Phe ps.

Galena,. Illinois, viz: lots number eight and nine, each lot
fronting forty-seven feet, more or less, on Water street.
Upon the trial, Phelps made out his title as follows:
1. A deed, or rather notification in his favor, addressed to
the superintendent of lead mines, from R. P. Guyard, dated
November 8, 1829.
2.. A certificate of the register of the land office at Dixon,
dated October 3,1850, stating that the legal representatives of
R. P. Guyard and D. B. Morehouse did, on the 20th of February, 1838, purchase of the General Government lots number eight and nine.
This certificate was issued under the following acts of Congress, viz:
The Congress of the United States, by an act approved February 5, 1829, provided for the laying. off of a town at and inclhding Galena, Illinois, under the direction of the surveyor
general for the States of Illinois, Missouri, and the Territory
of Arkansas. The act further provided that the lots should
be classed, &c., and, previous to their sale, "each and every
person, or his, her, or their legal representative, or representatives, who shall heretofore have obtained from the agent of
the United States a permit to occupy any lot or lots in the said
town of Galena, or who shall have actually occupied and improved any lot or lots in the said town, or within the tract of
land hereby authorized to be laid off into lots, shall be permitted to purchase such lot or lots by paying therefor in cash,"
&c., being the certain amounts specified in the said act, according to the class in which the same fell.
It not being practicable to carry this act into effect, Con
gress, on the 2d day of July, 1836, passed an amendatory act,
by which it was further provided, &c.:
"That all acts and duties required to be done and performed
by the surveyor of the States of Illinois and Missouri and the
Territory of Arkansas, under the act to which this is an amendment, shall bedone and performed by a board of commissioners, three in number, any two of whom shall form a qiorum
to do business; said commissioners to be appointed by the
President of the United States, and shall, previous to their

SUPREME COURT.
Haore1wuse v. Pkedpq.

entering upon the discharge of their duties, take an oath or
affirmation to perform the 'same faithfully and impartially."
And it was further enacted, "That the said commissioners
shall also have power to hear evidence and determine all claims
to lots of ground arising under the act to which this is an
amendment; and for this purpose the said commissioners are
authorized to administer all oaths that may be necessary, and
reduce to writing all the evidence in support of claims to preemption presented for consideration; and when all the testimony shall have been heard and considered, the said commissioners shall file with the register and receiver of the land office
at Galena the testimofiy in the case, together with a certificate
in favor of each person having the right of pre-emption; and
upon making payment to the receiver at Galena for the lot oi
lots to Which such person is entitled,.the receiver shall grant a
receipt therefor, and issue certificates of purchase, to be transmitted to the General Land Office, as in other cases of the sale
of public land."
3. Patents, issued for the lots on the 1st of January, 1846,
stating that the lots had been purchased by the legal representativesof Guyard and Morehouse, and granting the land to said
representatives.
4. The record book of the commissioners, deciding that the
legal representatives of Robert P. Guyard were entitled to a
pre-emption to one undivided half of lots number eight and
nine, and Dickerson B. Morehouse the other half of said
lots.
5. The acts of Congress above mentioned.
6. Evidence respecting the location of the lots.
The defendant then offered the following evidence:
1. The letters of administration, granted in March, 1836, to
Morehouse, upon the property of Guyard.
2. The acts of Congress before referred to.
3. The evidence of one of the commissioners, showing that
Morehouse appeared before the board and filed his claim, and
that the deed to Phelps was never before the board or offered
in evidence before the commissioners.
4. The certificate of the commissioners that the legal repre-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

297

.Mforelzoue v. Phedps.

sentatives of Guyard and Morehouse were entitled to the preemption of lots number eight and nine.
5. The record and proceedings of the General Land Office,
showing that they had improved the lots and paid the money
due on them.

6. The petition of Morehouse, as administrator, for leave to
sell the real estate of Guyard, in order to pay the debts of the
estate.
7. The deposition of Hempstead, that, as agent for More
house, he procured the patents.
8. The patents issued, as before stated.
9. Other evidence, to show that Morehouse had always been
in possession.

-

There were nine prayers, to the court offered by the counsel
for the plaintiff, and two by the defendant. The following
being one of the prayers offered on behalf of the plaintiff, which
was given, together with the second prayer asked by the defendant, and refused, appears to state the principal points in
the case, upon which the decision of the court below turned:
"6th. The legal representatives, as used in this law, is the
party in interest whose identity was uncertain, and who succeeded to the rights of Guyard. .It means the party who -legally represents the interest which was once vested in Guyard,
and by virtue of which right the law authorized the lots to be
entered; and if the jury believe from the evidence that Guyard was entitled to a pre-emption to the lots in controversy,
and parted with all his interest to Phelps by his deed in 1829,
then Phelps is the legal representative, and. !he jury should
find for the plaintiff."
"2d. That if the jury find from the evidence that Dickerson
B.- Morehouse was, asstated in the first instruction, the sole
administrator of Guyard, and that in that capacity he claimed,
before the commissioners appointed under the supplementary
act of the 2d July, 1886, to be entitled to the lots in dispute
by pre-emption title, and that the said commissioners heard
and consideredall the evidence offBered in support thereof, and
,that neither the plaintiff nor any other person ever claimed the
same before said c mmissioners at any time; and if they fur-

SUPREME COURT.
.orehouse v. Phdps.

ther find that the cGmmissioners did thereupon decide said
administrator to be entitled to said lots as the legal representative of Guyard, and did file with the register and receiver at
Galena the testimony in this case, together with their certificate in favor of said administrator; and that he did thereupon,
and as administrator of Guyard, pay the purchase-money for
said lots to such receiver, and obtain his receipt therefor, and
his certificate of purchase, and that these were by him transmitted to the General Land Office, and the patents issued
offered in evidence by said defendants were sent to him, and
have been in his possession ever since, claiming to be owner
of the lots therein mentioned, 'and that these are the lots in
dispute in this case; that then the said defendant is the owner
of said lots by virtue of said facts, and according to the construction of the said acts of Congress of the 5th February,
1829, and the 2d July, 1836, and that therefore the plaintiff
is not entitled to recover."
Refused.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff; and the case being
carried up to the Supreme Court upon exceptions, the judgment was there- affirmed.
A writ of error brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Washburne and Mr. _Reverdy Johnson
for the appellant, and Mr. Blair for the appellee.
The principal point was thus stated by the counsel for the
appellant:
The question arising in this court upon the record is, who
is the "legal representative" of Guyard, as to the lots in dispute, within the meaning of the statutes of the United States?
Phelps claims that he is, by virtue of the letter, or instrument,
above set out; Morehouse claims that he is, as administrator
of Guyard, he having made the claim to the lots before the
board of commissioners, which claim was allowed, and entered
them at the land office.- The Supreme Court of Illinois have
held that, under these statutes, Phelps is the "legal representative" of Guyard. This question is presented in the instruc-

DECEMBER TERcel, 1858.
3lorelmuse v. Ph74dp.

tions asked for by the attorneys for Phelps, and given by the
court below, and in the instructions asked for by the attorney
of Morehouse, and refused b the court below.
The construction of the sfatutes above referred tc being
drawn in question in this case, the Supreme Court of fllinois
made the certificate as found in the record.
It is submitted that the term "legal representative," a; used
in the act of February 5, 1829, clearly contemplates only those
representatives who file their dlaims before the board of commissioners, and have them allowed. If one be a "representative," and he does iot prefer his claim as such for confirmation, he is not regarded.
Landes et al. v. Perkins, 12 Missouri, 255.
In Strother v. Lucas, (12 Peters; 458,) the confirmation was
deemed to be made to the person who made and proed his
"claim" before the board of commissioners. To the same
point, see Bissell v. Penrose, 8 Howard, 337; Instructions and
Opinions of Attorneys General, part 2, pages 747, 752, 1043;
also, Boone v. M6ore, 14 Missonri, 424; 6 Peters,. 772; -2
Howard, 284; 4 Gillman, 454; 12 Illinois, 317; 15 fllinois,
572; Land Laws, vol. 3, 316; 2 Bay, 426-454; 16 Howard,
63.
Whatever right Phelps might have had, it was only an inchoate right, to be perfected by making his claim before the
board of commissioners;'and procuring their award upon satisfactory proofs, and then following it up by a purchase from
the land office. He could do these things, or he could abandon
his supposed right. He did so abandon it. On the other hand,
Alorehouse, as the admninistrator of Guyard, made the claim
before the board of commissioners, adduced his proofs, received
their award, and then perfected the title by entering the lots,
the possession of which he has retained to this day. Under
these circumstances, it is insisted that Morehouse, as the administrator of Guyard, is the "legal representative" of said
Guyard, within the true intent and meaning of the act of 5th
of February, 1829, authorizing the laying off a town on 'Bear
river, &c.
Gale's Statutes of Illinois, 706, 711.

SUFREME COURT.
.forelwuse v, .Phldpa.

Mr. Blair, for the defendant in error, made the following
points:
I. The first point made for the defendant in error is, that
.the decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois does not involve
the construction of any statute of the United States.
The only question decided by that court was, which of the
parties Wps the legal representative of Guyard. This is a question not regulated by those or any other statutes of the United
States, and is not determinable by .the construction of those
statutes, but depends wholly upon the local or State law, by
which alone the subject of representation,or the manner of transmitting and transferring rights In things, is regulated. Whilst,
therefore, the question was as to who was intended by the
words "legal representative," contained in the act and patents,
and the object wasto apply the description contained in these
words, this was not to be done by the Supreme Court of Illinois, by any construction of the act containirg them, which
the law gives this court power to revise; but the meaning was
to be ascertained by referenice to the State law, which alone
defines and fixes the legal representatives of all persons having
rights to real property within the State, whether such rights
were acquired from the United States or otherwise. And this
court could as well take jurisdiction to ascertain to whom a
deed inured made by an individual to the legal representatives
of Guyard, or on a question of the' identity of the grantee, as
in this case.
II. The judgment of the Supieme Court of Illinois, if revised, should be affirmed. The fact relied on by the plaintiff
in error to give him the title is, that he presented the claim to
the board as administrator of Guyard, and obtained the
award of the board, pafents, &c. There are two answers to
this:
1. That the fact relied on is contradicted by the record of
the board, which is conclusive. According to this record, it
was the legal reprdsentatives of Guyard who presented the
claim and obtained the award; and as Phelps was the legal
representative, he must be deemed to have presented it. And
though it may be held, if the oral testimony in the case can be

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

801

ltoreiwuse v. Pelp.

considered on such a question, that Phelps did not in fact present the claim, and that Morehouse did, it is equally certain
that Morehouse did not present it in his character 'as administrator, and must, from the manner in which he did
present it, be deemed to have presented it for whom it might
concern. The language of the entry clearly repels the idea
that he presented it as administrator; and the fact that he was
not entitled as administrator to the award, and therefore could
not have obtained it, is equally conclusive. There is no reason,
indeed, for supposing the award of the undivided half of these
lots to Guyard's legal representatives vested the title in his
administrator, except that the claim on behalf of Guyard's
legal representatives was presented by Moreliouse, and that he
was, at the time of exhibiting the claim, the administrator of
Guyard. But Guyard's interest in the lots was not vested
in him as administrator, any more thqn his own'interest,
(with which he necessaily presented Giuyard's;) Mackay's
Adm'r v. Bandine, (TMo., p. 874;) and it inlght therefore be
said, with equal propriety, th t he presenated'his own claim in
his character as administrator, aA thav, he presented .Quyard's
in that character.
2. But if it be conceded that Moreho0use. 1s "tl patente0 'a
administrator of Guyard, this would not affect tho result'.,le
could take in this way only as Guyard bimgelf would baie
taken, if he had been living, and the land had .been, paterited
to him. For as, in that case, the title would aye inured to
the grantee of Guyard, it must also inure to hi' grantee'when
conferred on one who is meely substituted to his rights 'and
obligations. It Was not questiobed in the much-dontested case
of Strother v. Lucas, (6 Peters, 772; 12 ib., 448,) that the-confirmation to Ohouteau inured to Lucas, his grantee, bv deed
made prior to the confirmation; and in the, cases of Stoddard
v. Ohambers, (2 Howard, 316,) and Landis v. Brant, (10 ib.,
848,) where the point was made, this court decided that the'
confirmations and patents to Clamorgan and Bell inured to
McNair and Stoddard, their respective grantees, by deeds
madle prior to the confirmations.

802

SUPREME COURT.
MAlorehouse v. Phe ps.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Phelps recovered of Morehouse the undivided moiety of lots
INos. 8 land 9 in the town of Galena, in a State Circuit Court
in Illinois, which judgment was affirmed in the Supreme Court
of that State; and from this decision the cause is brought here
on writ of error. We are now called on to re-examine the
controversy to the extent that acts of Congress, and the proceedings of officers acting under the authority of the United
States, are drawn in question.
Phelps claims, through a paper addressed to the agent of the
United States superintending the lead mines at Fever river;
and this paper his counsel assumes to be a deed that conveys
lands. It bears date November 8, 1829, and is from Guyard
to Phelps, for a moiety of the lots in dispute.
The courts of Illinois held it to be an effective conveyance
of title, and that, by force thereof, Phelps became "the legal
representatire" of Guyard, within the intent and true construction of the patents made to the representatives of Guyard and
Morehouse.
The act-of 1836 required that cobamissioners should hear and
determine all claims to lots of which a preference of entry wab
sought, according to the act of 1829 ; they had power conferrea
on them to administer oaths and take evidence, and wer .
directed to reduce it to writing, in support of claims to pre
emptions presented for consideration; and, when all the test
imony was heard and considered, they were to file with thG
register and receiver the whole testimony in the case, (that is,
in all the instances,) together with a certificate in favor of each
person having the right of pre-emption; and on payment being
made to the receiver by the person ascertained to be entitled,
the register was ordered to issue a certificate of purchase to
him to whom the right of pre-emption had been adjudged; and
the remaining lots were to be exposed to public sale.
It was the political power that was dealing with this property. Congress could award it either for a consideration, or
confer it on any one that they desired should have it. The
awards were made through a tribunal exercising the political
power, and whose adjudications were conclusive of the right

DECEMBER TERM, .1858.

303

H3orelowe v. Pkdps.

to purchase; nor had the courts of justice any jurisdiction to
interfere.

Phelps did not come forward and prefer a claim to have a
pre-emption allowed, and if Morehouse had not acquired this
right, the land would have been sold at auction; Phelps would
have then stood in the situation of all others claiming prefer-ences of entry throughout the public domain, who fail to prove
up their claims before the register and receiver, and permit
the land to be sold at the public sales.. He abandoned his
preference, and allowed it to be forfeited-even conceding its
original validity.
2. If Phelps has a legal title, he took it by the terms of the
patents. The patent for No. 9 recites, that the legal representatives of Robert P. Guyard and Dickerson B. Morehouse had deposited in the General Land Office the register's certificate at the
land office at Galena; that full payment had been made, by said
legal representatives above named, for lot-No. 9,. (the boundary
of which is described,) and which lot had been purchased by
said representatives of Guyard and Morehouse; and, in consideration of the premises, the United States have given and
granted, and do give and grant, "unto the said representatives
of Guyard and Morehouse, and to their heirs, the said lot
above described; to have and to hold, unto the said representatives, and their heirs and assigns, forever, as tenants in common." The patent for lot No. 8 is in the same terms.
For the purpose of explaining who the grantees are, and that
they were the purchasers, extrinsic proof was introduced in
the $tate Circuit Court, to the end of establishing the fact that
Morehouse, as administrator of Guyard, and on his own behalf, proved the joint occupancy of lots 8 and 9 before the commissioners appointed to grant certificates of pre-emption under
the act of 1836; that Morehouse obtained certificates of preemption, filed them with the register, paid the purchase-money
to the receiver of the land office at Galena, took out his patent
certificates, presented them at the General Land Office, and
received the patents. The deed to Phelps was produced and
recorded at Galena, June 18, 1847. Morehouse obtained his
pre-emption certificates for lots Nos. 8 and 9, paid his money

SUPREME COURT.
.orehouse v. Phe ps.

for them, and got his patent certificate February 20, 1838, and
on the 1st day of January, 1846, the patents issued.
We feel confident, from the face of the patents, that they
were made for the benefit of those who obtained the certificate
of pre-emption, and paid for the land. Such, in our judgment,
is the fair construction of the patents, and of the second section of the act of 1836, on which they are founded. The patents, throughout, refer to those who bring the claim before the
board, obtain the right of entry, pay the purchase-money, and
enter the land.
It was the duty of Morehouse, as administrator of Guyard,
to make payment for the moiety of the lots Nos. 8 and 9, on
behalf of the estate of Guyard, out of the personal property in
the administrator's hands. (Revised Statutes of Illinois, title
Wills, sec. 107; adopted in 1836.)
And by the 98th and 99th sections of said title, the administrator was empowered to convert the lands into personal
assets for the payment of debts; the personal estate having
proved insufficient.
The capacity of Morehouse to cause the entry to be made,
depends on State laws, with which we have no power to deal
in the present writ of error, further than to ascertain from them
that Morehouse was, in his capacity of administrator, "the
legal representative" of Guyard; and such we think he was,
and that the patents are technically accurate.
As Phelps was plaintif in the ejectment suit, and Morehouse in possession, it was imposed on Phelps to show a valid
legal title to authorize a recovery of the land by him; and having no such title, Morehouse's possession was sufficient for his
protection.
The decisions referred to on behalf of the defendant in error,
where Spanish claims had been confirmed, and where the
United States gave an additional sanction to an incipient title
existing when we acquired Louisiana, do not apply. In those
cases, titles which were undoubtedly private property, that
could be alienated, and which descended, were examined, and
their validity ascertained; and when found meritorious, ordered to be defined by survey, and a United States patent was

DECEMBER TERM, 18 5 8 .,."

1

905,

Brown et aZ. v. Huger.

in most cases ordered to be issued. But this did not defteat
outstanding interests in the land for which the patent
issued; as was held in the cases of Stoddart v. Chambers, Russell v. Penrose, and Landes v. Brant. The patent covered the
whole title; at least, from the time it was asserted before a
board of commissioners appointed by Congress to investigate
the claim; and the patent inured to the protection of alienees
and heirs. The United States Government.was bound to protect existing interests in the lands acquired by the United
States from France, by the treaty of 1803.
Here, however, a very different claim to the lands in the
town of Galena is set up. "The Governmeni was the absolute
owner; Congress might have repealed the acts of 1829 and
1836, at any time before actual purchases were made 'by those
claiming a preference to enter, and the lands have been sold
at auction. Up to the date of the entry and purchase, the title
was in the United States; behind which date the courts of
justice can uphold no deed of conveyance of the public lands,
unless Congress has authorized assignbnents of occupant clainis
to be made; and as the acts of 1829 and 1886 awarded the
preference of entry to the claimant who applied, and obtained,
the favorable decision of the board of commissioners, no inquiry
can be made into the dealings between Phelps and Guyard.
It is ordered that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Illinois be reversed, and that the cause be remanded, to be proceeded in according to this opihion.

, JOHN
JACOB B. BRowN, JACOB NISSWANER,.FoNTAnE BECKHRAI
0. UNSELD, AND GEORGE W. MOLER, PLrAnTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. BEN AMIN HUGER.
Where there had been hn original entry for.landmade in the office of the Lord
Proprietor of the Noithern Neck of Virginia, a survey ordered upon that ent
and actually made and returned, and a patent adopting that survey, and founded
thereupon, was issued.by-the Lord Proprietor to a grantee differing in name
from the maker of the original entry, these circumstances constitute no ground
for vacating or impeaching the legal title vested by the patent.
20
VOL. XiV

