DECEMBER TERM, 18 5 8 .,."

1

905,

Brown et aZ. v. Huger.

in most cases ordered to be issued. But this did not defteat
outstanding interests in the land for which the patent
issued; as was held in the cases of Stoddart v. Chambers, Russell v. Penrose, and Landes v. Brant. The patent covered the
whole title; at least, from the time it was asserted before a
board of commissioners appointed by Congress to investigate
the claim; and the patent inured to the protection of alienees
and heirs. The United States Government.was bound to protect existing interests in the lands acquired by the United
States from France, by the treaty of 1803.
Here, however, a very different claim to the lands in the
town of Galena is set up. "The Governmeni was the absolute
owner; Congress might have repealed the acts of 1829 and
1836, at any time before actual purchases were made 'by those
claiming a preference to enter, and the lands have been sold
at auction. Up to the date of the entry and purchase, the title
was in the United States; behind which date the courts of
justice can uphold no deed of conveyance of the public lands,
unless Congress has authorized assignbnents of occupant clainis
to be made; and as the acts of 1829 and 1886 awarded the
preference of entry to the claimant who applied, and obtained,
the favorable decision of the board of commissioners, no inquiry
can be made into the dealings between Phelps and Guyard.
It is ordered that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Illinois be reversed, and that the cause be remanded, to be proceeded in according to this opihion.

, JOHN
JACOB B. BRowN, JACOB NISSWANER,.FoNTAnE BECKHRAI
0. UNSELD, AND GEORGE W. MOLER, PLrAnTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. BEN AMIN HUGER.
Where there had been hn original entry for.landmade in the office of the Lord
Proprietor of the Noithern Neck of Virginia, a survey ordered upon that ent
and actually made and returned, and a patent adopting that survey, and founded
thereupon, was issued.by-the Lord Proprietor to a grantee differing in name
from the maker of the original entry, these circumstances constitute no ground
for vacating or impeaching the legal title vested by the patent.
20
VOL. XiV

SUPREME COURT.
Brown et al. v. Huger.
The construction of the patent is the proper duty of the court, and not of the
jury.
It is a universal rule, that wherever natural or permanent objects are embraced
in the calls of a patent or survey, these have absolute control, and both course
and distance must yield to their influence.
Hence, where a survey and patent call for a boundary to run down a river to its
point of junction with another, thence up that other, the rivers are obviously
intended as the boundaries, and courses must be disregarded, especially when
it is manifest that one of them has been interpolated through error.
The authorities referred to.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the western district of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Davis and Mr. Johnson for the plain.
tiffs in error, and Mr. Hull and Mr. Mason for the defendant,
an which side there was also a brief by Jr. Black, (Attorney
General.)
The counselfor the plaintiffs in error made the following
points
1. That the court withdrew from the jury all questions
touching the proof of the patent and the particular boundaries
thereof, though the defendants' cases consisted in showing the
boundaries in the only copy of the patent produced to be erroneous, and the patent itself appeared to have issued irregularly, and without a precedent survey for the patentee.
Barclay et al. v. Howell's Lessee, 6 Peters, 498, 508, 511.
2. That the court withdrew from the jury the question,
whether the fourth point of the defendant's patent, being in
fact near and not on the river, was, under all the circumstances
of the locality and survey, on or only near the river; or, in a
word, whether the point 18, or the point G, or a point on the
river at the end of a line from either 18 or G, perpendicular to
the river, were the true fourth point, and whether the river or
the -right lines mentioned in the patent were the true boundary ?
Barclay v. Howell, 6 Peters, 498, 508, 511.
3.Though it be conceded that, in many cases, a call for a point

DECEMMBERL TERM, 1858.

807.

Brown et a. v. Hirger.

on a river, and then up or down the river to another point on
the river, will in law be a call for a line with the river, yet this
case is not within the principle; but,- calling for a point near
the river, it must be a question of fact where the point is, and
how far fiom the river, as the law cannot determine the length
of what parties meant by near. I must be 'for the jury to say,
whether near means on the river, or is only a gener'al description of the locality of the point, vwhich is itself the real pointcontemplated by the patent.
Connelly v. Bowie, 6. Harris and Johnson, 141.
Rogers v. Moore, 7 H. and J., 141.
Hammond v. Ridgely, 5 H. and J., 245, 255.
Howard v. Ingersoll., 13 Howard, 414, 418.
Mr. Mason made the following points:
.FrstPoint. The instruction asked for by the defendant as-,
sumes that the question of boundary at issue between the parties depends on the construction to be given to the calls of the
senior patent, which, being a question of law, was properly referred to the court.
Second Point. The question of boundary was, whether, upon
the evidence before the court, the boundaries set out in the
senior patent were to be taken as the artificial lines there stated
by course and distance, or the natural boundaries, -the two
rivers referred to in the patent.
The senior patent granted by Lord Fairfax to Robert Harper,
and dated April 25th, 1751, corrected by the original survey
of the 4th April, 1750, and having such correction established
by other proofs, for the boundaries in question, calls as follows:
"Beginning at a sycamore standing on the edge of Shenandoah river, and extending thence down the said river south,
fifty-five degrees east, forty-four poles, north, sixty-six degrees
east, seventy-two poles, to a sycamore standing at the point;
-and thence up Potomack river north, forty-eight degrees west,
two hundred poles, to a chestnut tree standing near Potomack,
opposite to a small island."
The deed under which defendant claims from the devisee

SUPREME COURT.
Brown et al. v. tuger.

and heirs of the patentee to George Washington, President of
the United States, dated June 15, 1796, calls the land conveyed
the "Harper's Ferry tract," and describes the premises (as to
the boundaries in question) as bounded "by the river Potomack on the outside, by the river Shenandoah on another
side."
It is contended, on the part of defendant, that by the
calls of this patent, in construction of law, (as well interpreted
by the deed last referred to,) the two rivers, Potomac and Shenandoah, are to be taken as the boundaries in question.
If this be so, it is conclusive of the case.
On this point, the defendant cites:New York: Starr v. Child, 20 Wendell, 156; Trustees of
the town of Kingston v. Louw, 12 Johnson, 252.
Massachusetts: Mayhew v. Norton, 17 Pickering, 357.
North Carolina: Hammond v. McGlaughan, Taylor's Rep.,
136; Rogers v. Mabe, 4 Devereaux, 180; Hartsfield v. Westbrook, Hlaywood's Rep., p. 297.
Kentucky: Cockerell v. McQuin, 4 Monroe's Rep., 61;
Bruce v. Taylor, 2 J. J. Marshall's Rep., 160.
Ohio: McCulloch v. Aton, 2 Ohio. Snpr. Court Rep., 308;
Newsom v. Pryor, 7 Wheaton, 7 and 10.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment instituted by the plaintiffs
in error against the defendant, in the Circuit Court of the
county of Jefferson, in the State of Virginia.
The locus in quo being held and occupied by the defendant
as an officer of the United States, and in virtue of their right
and authority, the suit was, under the act of Congress of 1789,
removed, upon petition, to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the western district of Virginia, within which district the property in dispute is situated. The claim of the
plaintiffs is founded on a patpnt from the Lieutenant Governor
of Virginia, granted to Jacob Brown and Jacob Nisswaner,
dated July 29, 1851, aud granted in virtue of a land office
Treasury warrant for the location of waste and unappropriated
]ands. This patent, according to thi various courses and dis-

80"9:

DECEMBER TERM, I58.
Brown et aZ.'v. Huger.

-

tances therein set forth, purports to grant the quantity of
thirty-nine acres and two roods. Beckham, "Unseld," and
Moler, three of the laintifs, derived their title directly fromthe patentees above named, as was shown by conveyances
from the latter, which were read in evidence. The plaintifls
also introduced a survey plot and report, made by A. Trotter,
surveyor, in pursuance of an order of court in this cause; and
relied upon the same, with other evidence, to show that the'
land granted by the patent of 1851 was correctly laid down and
described in the survey, and that the defendant was" in the
possession of the land claimed at the commencement of the
plaintiffs action.
The defendant, holding the premises as the agent.and under
the authority of the United States, defended the right to the
possession, as held by him, upon the following proofs, being
certified copies from the records of the land office of the 'State
of Virginia, by S. A. Parke', the"register of that office. 1st.
An entry in the office of the Lord Proprietor of the Northern
Neck of the State of Virginia, (within which portion of the
State the land in contest is situated,) in the following words,
viz: "1750, April 4. Surveyed. James Nickols, of Frederick county, Virginia, entered about two hundred acres of waste
and ungranted land at the mouth of the Shanandoah river."
And an order from Lord Fairfax to Guy Broadwater, in. the
words and figures following, viz:
" To Mr. Guy Broadwater:
",Whereas James lNickols hath informed that there are about
two hundred acres of waste and ungranted land where he now
lives, and desiring a warrant to survey ye same, in order'to
obtain a deed, being ready to pay ye composition and office
charges: These are therefore to empower you, ye said

-,

to

survey ye said waste land, provided this be ye first warrant that
hath issued for y. land; and you are to make a just and accuirate survey thereof, describing the course and distance per
pole; also ye cuttings and -boundings of the several -persons'
lands adjoining; and where you cannot join to any known
lines, you are to make ye breadth of ye tract to -bear at least

SUPREME COURT.
Brown et al. v. Hzuger.

ye proportion of one-third of ye length, as ye law of Virginia
directs; you are also to insert ye name of ye pilote and chain
carryers maae use of and employed; a plat of which said survey, with this warrant, you are to give into this office any time
before
- day of
-,
next ensuing. Given under my
]land and seal of ye proprietor's office, this day of -,
in ye twenty year of his majesty King George ye second
reign.
FAIERFAX."
2d. And a plat and certificate of survey by said Broadwater,
in the words and figures following, viz:
" By virtue of a warrant from ye proprietor's office, dated the
4th of April, 1750, granted to James Nickols one certain parcel
or tract of land situated and lying in Frederick county: Begin-

ning at A, a sickamore standing upon ye edge of Shenandoah,
extending down ye said river S. 55 E. 44 poles to B; thence
N. 66 E. 72 poles to 0, a sickamore standing upon ye pitch of
ye point of Shenandoah; thence up Potomac N. 48 W. 200
poles to D, a chestnutt tree standing near Potomac river, side
oppositl to a small isleland; thence west 105 poles to E, a white
oak; thence S. 140 poles to F, a red oak; thence east 150 poles
to ye beginning, containing 125 acres, surveyed by me.
"GUY BROADWATER.
"JOSEPH CANTNELL,
Chain-carriers."
"JOSEPH

NICKOLS,

I

Endorsed: "Deed issued 25th April, 1751."
An official certificate from S. H. Pirkhr, register of the Virginia land office, dated Richmond, June ,27th71854, in the following words:
"I; S. H. Parker, register of the land -office of Virginia, do
hereby certify, that it does not appear that any grant has been
issued on the survey made by James Nickois for 125 acres of
land in Frederick county to any person -except Robert Harper,
to whom a grant issued on the 25th day of April, 1751, which
date agrees with the date on Nickols' survey. And I further
certify that I can find no survey -f Robert Harper for 125 acres
on file in this office "

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
.Brown et al. v. Huger.

3d. A grant from the Lord Proprietor of the Northern Neck,
in the following words:
"The Right Honorable Thomas Lord Fairfax, Baron of Cameron, in that part of Great Britain called Scotland, proprietor
of the Northern Neck of Virginia:
"To all to whom this Irresent writing shall come, sends greting:
"Know ye, that for good causes, for and in consideration of
the composition to me paid, and for the annual rent hereafter
received, I have given, granted; and confirmed, and by these
presents, for me, my heirs and assigns, do give, grant, and confirm unto Robert Harper, of the county of Frederick, a certain
tract of waste and ungranted lands in the said county, at the
mouth of Shanandoah river, and is bounded as by a survey
thereof made by Guy Broadwater, as followeth: Beginning at
a sycamore standing on the edge of Shanandoah river, and extending thence down the said river N. 480 W.; 200 N. 66 E.,
seventy-two poles to a sycamore standing at the- point, and
thence up Potomack river N. 480 W., two hundred poles to a
chestnut tree standing near Potomack, opposite to a small island; thence W. one hundred and five poles to a white oak;
thence south one hundred and forty poles to a red oak; thence
east one hundred and fifty poles to the beginning, cntaining,
one hundred and twenty-five acres, together with all rights,
members, and appurtenances thereunto belonginig, royal mines
excepted, and a full third part of all lead, copper, tin, coals,
iron mines, and iron ore, that shall be found thereon:
4"To have and to hold the said one hundred and twenty-fivG
acres of land, together with all rights, profits, and benefits to
the same belonging, or in anywise appertaining, except before
excepted to him, the said Robert Harper, his heirs and assigns,
forever.
"Given at my office in the county of Fairfax, within my said
proprietary, under my hand and seal, dated this 25th day of
April, in the 24th year of our sovereign lord, George the Second by the Grace of God, of Great Britain, France, and Ireland, king, defeider of the faith, &c., A. D. 1751.
(Signed)
"FAIRFAX.;t

SUPREME COURT.
Brown et al. v. Huger.

4th. The defendant oflered in evidence the last will of Robert Harper, deceased, the grantee of the Lord Proprietor, with
proof of the probate and recording of that last will in the court
of Berkley county, on the 13th of October, 1782. By thefirst
clause of the will disposing bf his property, the testator devised
to his nephew, Robert Griffith, "one moiety or half of his ferry
survey, to.form a straight direct line to run along the two
fences on the east side, or that side next to the ferry, the one
fence lying on the north, and the other on* the south side of
the road leading from the ferry to Winchester; the sides of
the above-mentioned fences to be a director, or to show where
each end of the division line shall terminate. The end of the
line leading to the Potomac to terminate as soon as it strikes
that river; the end leading to Shenandoah to keep a straight
line till it likewise strikes said river, and to contain and include the island opposite where the said line strikes; then to
run in my (said Harper's) line, adjoining Sample's line, to continue with said line and to include ninety acres of a new survey; thence to continue its course till where the dividing line
shall strike the Potomac river, including therewith tie sawmill and grist-mill of the testator." By the survey and report
of Trotter, this line, denominated Sample's line, is one of the
courses delineated upon the survey as a boundary to a tract of
land conveyed by one G~rshom Keys to John Sample, on the
9th of June, 1763, and this line is its southern termination,
runs to the margin of the Shenandoah river, and near to Harper's house, as delineated on the plat, and to the grist and sawmill situated upon that river.
By the next disposition in his will, the testator devised to
his niece, Sarah Harper, his ferry and ferry-house on Potomac
river, and all the remainder of his ferry survey, not before
devised to Robert Griffith, and all hi' estate in and right and
title to the Maryland shore of the said ferry, and to ten acres
of land upon what is.called the Big Island in the Potomac river
adjoining the ferry aforesaid.
The-defendant also gave in evidence the plat and report bf
survey made as aforesaid in this case by Trotter, and evidence
tending to prove that the beginning corner of Harper's patent

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

313

Brown et aZ. v-. H ger.

was actually on the bank of the Shenandoah river, as at A on
the map; and that the third corner of said patent was at or
near the junction of the Shenandoah and Potomac rivers; and
that the next corner of the patent, at the distance of two hundred poles up the Potomac river, was near the bank of said
river at the point G or 18 on the plat; and that the general
course of the said two rivers was as laid down in the said plat
in relation to the four said first lines of Harper's patent. Upon
a comparison of the survey made by Broadwater by order of
the Lord Proprietor with the copy of the patent from the land
office, there will be perceived this disagreement between these
two documents with regard to the first call in the location of
the land. In the survey as well as in the patent, ther beginning is stated to be at a sycamore tree standing on the7 edge of
Shenandoahriver, and extending thence down the river to a sycamore standing, says the patent, at the p2oint, and according to
the survey, at the pitch of the point of Shenandoah, thence up
the Potomac, &c. But whilst the first course in the survey in
approaching the point or the junction of the two rivers is S. E.,
the same course is represented in the grant as running N'. W,'.
This is a manifest error on the face of the grant, as the geographical knowledge of every one compels him to know, that
the rivers Potomac and Shenandoah in approaching each other
run in a south and east direction; and therefore, if this course
in the grant ran northwest from the point of beginning, it
would diverge more and more at every step from the Potomac,
and could never reach the latter river. To correct. this manifest error, if indeed proof could be necessary in aid of the geog
raphy of the country, or of the sensible meaning of the patent
itself the defendant offered evidence to show that the original
parchment patent had been lost; and further proof to show
that this original parchment patent was in the years 1825 and
1827 in possession of Mrs. Catharine Wager, widow of John
Wager, jun., deceased, who was son of John Wager, sen., who
was the husband of Sarah Harper, the devisee of Robert Harper, the original patentee. He further offered proof that. the
courses and distances had been copied from said original in
the years 1825 and 1827, respectively, by the deputy surveyor

314

SUPREME COURT.
Brown et al. v. Huger.

of Jefferson county, where the. lands lie, for the purpose of survey, and were used by him in a survey of the tract patented as
aforesaid to Robert Harper, between the Wagers, who claimed
under the said Robert Harper, and the United States; and
offered further proof that the said courses and distances had
in 1816 or 1818 been copied from the same original patent by
John Peacher, a witness in this cause, then the owner of land
binding on the lines of Harper's patent, a copy of which courses
and distances is as follows, viz: "Beginning at a sycamore
standing on the edge of the Shenandoah river, and extending
thence down the said river S.55 E. 44 poles, N. 66 E. 72 poles
to a sycamore standing on the point; and thence up Potomac
river N. 48 W. 200 poles to a chestnut tree standing near the
Potomac, opposite a small island; thence W. 105 poles to a
white oak, S.140 poles to a red oak; thence E. 150 poles to
the beginning."
The defendant then deduced title through conveyances from
the devisees of Robert Harper to George Washington, President of the United States, and his successors, on behalf of the
United States. One of those conveyances, bearing date on the
15th of June, 1796, from John Wager the elder, the husband,
and John Wager, Margaret Wager, and Mary Wager, children
of Sarah Harper, describing the land conveyed as "all that
piece of land situated in the county of Berkley commonly
known as the Harper's Ferry land, which was devised by the
will of Robert Harper, bearing date on or about the 26th day
of September, 1782, to his niece, Sarah Harper, and is bounded
by the river Potomac on the outside, by the river Shenandoah
on the other side, and by the line dividing it from the tract or
parcel of land devised by the said Robert Harper to Robert
Griffith on the other side." And in the conveyance from
Robert Griffith, the devisee of Harper, dated on the 9th day
of January, 1797, to Thomas Rutherford and others, the grantors of another portion of this land to George Washington for
the United States, it is recited, "that whereas Robert Harper,
late of the county of Berkley, and Commonwealth of Virginia,
was in his lifetime seized in fee of and in one certain tract of
land situate, lying and being at the confluence of the Potomac

DEOCEMER TERM, 1858.
Brown d al v. Huger.

and Shenandoah rivers, in the county of Berkley, containing
one hundred and twenty-five acres, for which he obtained a
deed from the proprietor, &c. ; and, being so seized, did by his
last will devise unto his nephew, Robert Griffith the elder, one
equal moiety or half of the above-described one hundred and.
twenty-five acres of land, comprehending a saw-mill thereon,
and an island in the Shenandoah opposite thereto." The defendant further proved that the United States had, between the
years 1796 and 1800, erected and established on the land in
controversy the necessary buildings for an armory and arsenal
for the manufacture and repair of arms, and had held and occupied- and used, for the purposes aforesaid, the land and
buildings, from the years above mentioped to the present
time. That the defendant is an officer in the military service
of the United States, attached to the Ordnance department,
and as such was in charge and in possession of the land in controversy, with the buildings thereon, and the armory of the
United States at Harper's Ferry, under an order from the Ordnance department; and that the lands aforesaid had been in
the like charge of his predecessors, under orders and appointments from the Ordnance Office or War Department of the
United States, from May, 1829, to the period when the defendant took possession; and that, prior to the year 1829, as far
back as the year 1800, the said lands and buildings were in
like charge of other persons in the service of the United States
at said armory.
Such being the state of the evidence, the defendant moved
the court to give the jury the following instructions, viz: "That
the patent to Robert Harper, having its beginning corner on
the Shenandoah river, and calling to extend thence down the
river, by course and distance, to the point where it appears,
from the survey made in this cause, the river Shenandoah
unites with the Potomac; and from that point up the river
Potomac, by course and distance, to a corner near the lastnamed river, opposite to a small island. In construction of
law, the two rivers are thereby made the boundaries of said
patent, from said beginning on the Shenandoah to the lastnamed corner on the Potomac; and if the juiry believe, from

SUPREME COURT.
Browun et al. v. Huger.

the evidence, that the lands claimed by the plaintiffs lay along
the rivers Shenandoah and Potomac, within the lines of the
patent to Robert Harper, extended as aforesaid to the two
rivers, they must find for the defendant-the patent under
which the plaintiff claims being junior 'to that of Harper's,
under which the defendant claims-unless the plaintiffs should
establish a title to the lands in controversy other than through
their said patent."
On the same state of the evidence, the plaintiffs also moved
the court to instruct the jury as follows: "That the question
as to how the survey, on which this patent of Robert Harper was issued, was actually run, is in this case a question of
fact for the jury; and if the jury believe that the line from the
sycamore, at the point of confluence of the Shenandoah and
Potomac rivers, to the chestnut tree, was actually run a straight
line, then that straight line is the boundary of Robert Harper's
patent. But the court gave the instruction asked for by the
defendant, and refused to give the instruction asked for by the
plaintiffs; to which opinions and action of the court-giving
the defendant's instruction, and refusing the plaintiffs' instruction-the plaintiffs by counsel except, and their exceptions
are here sealed by the court.
"JOHN W. BROCKEN3ROUGH. [SEAL.]"
The correctness or incorrectness of the decision of the Circuit Court, in granting the prayer of the defendant, and inrefusing that presented by the plaintif, is the subject of inquiry
in this case.
A striking peculiarity distinguishing this case is perceived
in the fact that it discloses an effort, by means obtained at a
cost comparatively nominal, to disturb and to destroy a possession of more than half a century in duration; a possession
connected with public interests of primary magnitude; a possession acquired in return for a full and fair equivalent given,
and of a notoriety as extensive as the. limits of the nation.
Although the immunity created by lapse of time may not
have been directly i'nterposed for its protection, yet such an
immunity as necessarily disclosed by the evidence adduced on

DECE1MBER TERM, 1858.

317

Brown et al. v. Huger.

both sides of this controversy, certainly does not commend the
pretensions of the plaintiffs upon considerations of eitherjustice
or policy. But beyond such general considerations, though in
strict accordance with them, let us inquire whether, upon principles established and mandatory, and inseparable from the
maintenance of social order and quiet, and of private right,
this attempt of the plaintiffs should not be repelled?
The exceptions taken by the plaintiffs in error to the instructions of the Circuit Court, and alleged as causes of error
here, are stated as follows:
1st. That the court withdrew from the jury all questions
touching the proof of the patent and the particular boundaries
ther~eof, though the defendant's case consisted in showing the
boundaries in the only copy of the patent produced to. be erroneous, and the patent to have issued irregularly, and without a
precedent survey for the patentee.
2d. That the court withdrew from the jury the question
whether the 4tb point of the survey of the defendant's patent,
being in fact near and not on the river, was, under all .the circunis.tances of the survey, oN or only NEAR the river; or whether

the river or the right lines mentioned in the patent were the
true boundary?,
In examining this first. objection, and the foundation on
which it is made, it appears that the original entry for the land
in controversy was in the name of James Nickols; that. the
order of survey from the Lord Proprietor to the surveyor,
Broadwater, was for a survey upon that entry, and that the
survey made and returned by Broadwater was upon that entry;
but it equally appears that the patent issued by the Tlord Proprietor refers to and adopts the survey of Broadwater with
respect to its own date, the date of the warrant and the quantity of the land surveyed, and grants the land so surveyed to
Robert Harper,, From the records of the land office of Virginia, comprising the records of the proprietary, it is shown
that on the survey made in the name of James Nickols for 125
acres of land in Frederick county, a patent was granted by the
Lord Proprietor to Robert Harper on the 25th day of April,
1751, which date corresponds with that endorsed upon .Nickols's

318

SUPREME COURT.
Brown et al. v. Huger.

survey. It is not therefore perceived upon what ground the
regularity of the proceedings anterior to the patent to Harper,
or the authority to issue it, can be assailed. It does not appear
that any exception to either was taken in the court below, and
therefore, if at any time available, it is not allowable here.
With regard to the second part of this objection, that which
claims for the jury the construction of the patent, we remark
that the patent itself must be taken as evidence of its meaning;
that, like other written instruments, it must be interpreted as
a whole, its various provisions be taken as far as practicable
in connection with each other, and the legal deductions drawn
therefrom must be conformable with the scope and purpose of
the entire document. This construction and these deductions
we hold to be within the exclusive province of the court. The
patent itself could not be altered by evidence aliunde, but
proof as to the existence and character of the objects or subjects to which it was appliuable was regular, and even necessary to give it effect.
In ascertaining the boundaries of surveys or patents, the universal rule is this: that wherever natural or permanent objects
are embraced in the calls of either, these have absolute control, and both course and distance must yield to their infuence.
Upon recurrence to the survey by Broadwater, from the beginning at A, a sycamore standing on the edge of Shenandoah,
(a point admitted by all the parties to be the beginning in Harper's Ferry tract,) the survey calls for a course extending doum
the said river S. 55 E. 44 poles to B; thence N. 66 E. 72 poles
to C, a sycamore standing on the pitch of the point of Shenandoah; thence up Potomac N. 48 W. 200 poles to D, a chestnut tree standing near Potomac river sie, opposite a small
island; thence W. 105 poles to E, a white oak; thence S. 140
poles to F, a red oak; thence E. 150 poles to the beginning.
The patent from the Lord Proprietor, granting the land to Harper at the mouth of the Shenandoah river, professes to make the
grant, and to give the boundaries of.the land and the quantity
thereof according to the survey by Broadwater, and commences
tlie description, as taken from that survey, as follows: Beginning at a sycamore standing on the edge of Shenandoah river,

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

319

Brown et a. v. Huger.

and extending thence down the said river. At this point in
the description are interposed the letters and figures (N. 480
W. 200 N.) It is-evident that these letters and figures have
been interpolated in this place by an error, perhaps in recording the patent. This seems to follow from the fact that these
letters and figures, as thus placed, have no sensible meaning.
N. 48' W. 200 N., mean nothing; they point to no object, and
neither are they connected with any distance. Immediately
following these letters and figures are the several descriptive
calls of the patent, corresponding -with the courses and distances and objects contained in the survey which it had referred to and adopted. The fact of this interpolation is also shown
by the circumstance that farther on in the description, both in
the survey and patent, of the courses and distances bordering
on the Potomac, there is given, commencing at the point or
coninlence of the two rivers, the course of N. 480 W. 200 poles
to a chestnut tree standing on the. Potomac opposite a small
island, which part of the description was doubtless wrested
from its proper position, and transferred to another in which it
could convey no intelligible meaning, and from which it should
be expunged as absurd and of no effect. It is proper .here to
observe that neither in the survey nor the patent for the iHarper's Ferry tract is there a course, or a distance, or a station,
which is inconsistent with or in opposition to a river boundary;
but on either side of that tract facing the river, a riparian or
river boundary is obviously intended. Thus at the Shenandoah, the commencing point is at a tree on the edge of the
river; thence down the river to a p6int of the Shenandoah,
(meaning the river, of course, as there was no other object bearing that name;) at this point is the conftuence of the two riv
ers. Thence the course is up the Potomac N. 200 poles to a
chestnut tree standing, in the language of the survey, "near
Potomac river sie," and in that of the patent, "near Potomac."
The question then propounded by the prayers to the court
below was a question of law arising upon the construction of
the two patents-the one from the State of Virginia in 1851,
the other from Lord Fairfax in 1750.
If, as is contended by the defendant, the calls in the patent

SUPREME COURT.
Brown etal. v. Huger.

to Robert Harper, and in the survey on which it purports to
be founded, extended to the rivers Shenandoah and Potomac,
such a construction must be conclusive of this controversy; it
leaves no question to be determined by the jury as to the running of any artificial line; it fully sustains the decision of the
Circuit Court upon the prayers respectively offered by the par-

ties.
The citation from the treatise by Angell on water-courses
fully declares the rule to be, that where a line is described as
running in a certain direction to a river, and thence up or down
with the river, those words imply that the line is to follow the
river according to its meanderings and turnings, and in watercourses not navigable must be "ad medium filum aquae." Upon
a question of boundary in the case of Jackson v: Low, in the
12th of Johnson's Reports, 255, in ejectment, the court, in construing a provision in a deed in these words: "leading to the
creek, and thence up the same to the southwest corner of a lot," &c.,
say, "there can be no doubt but this lot must follow the creek
upon one of its banks or through the middle. This description can never be satisfied by a straight line. The terms 'up
the same' necessarily imyly'that it is to follow the creek according to its windings and turnings, and that must be the middle
or centre of it."
In the case of Mayhew v. lNorton, a grantor had conveyed
land to be bounded by the harbor of Edgartown. The Supreme
Court of Massachusetts decided that the flats in front of the
lots conveyed passed by the deeds, because they were in the
harbor, although the quantity of land conveyed and the length
of the lines would have been satisfied by applying them to the
upland alone. In the case of Cockerell v. McGuire, 4th T. B.,
Monroe s Rep., 62, the Circuit Court, in ejectment, had instructed the jury upon a question of boundary that the following calls in the patent: "thence from the fourth course down
the river these several courses should be construed by the jury
as a'call to run down the river bounding thereon, with its meanders," &c. The Supreme Court, to whom this cause was carried by writ of error, say: "In cases of boundary which depend
upon the swearing of witnesses it would no doubt be incompe-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Brown e aL v. Huger.

tent for the court, by any sort of instructions thatmight be given,
to withdraw from the jury a decision upon the weight of the
testimony and the-facts which the testimony conduces to estabN
lish." But the case under consideration is not one of that sort.
The question for our consideration involves no inquiry into the
testimony of witnesses; but, on the contrary, in the absence
of all pai:ol evidence as to marked lines, presents for the determination of the court the construction of the calls for boundary
mentioned in the patent, and surely none will pretend that the
legal construction of a patent is not a matter proper for the
decision of a court. If in the first branch of the instructions
the court was correct in supposing that the call in the patent
to run down the river these several courses, &c., should be construed as a call to run with the river, it was unquestionably
correct to instruct the jury that the north fork between the
fourth corner of the patent and the beginning formed part of
the boundary; and that in the firit branch of th6 instruction
the court gave a correct construction of the calls of the patent,
we apprehend there can be no ground for reasonable doubt.
In the case of Newsom P. Pryor, (7 Wheaton, 10,) it is laid
down by this court as a rule for the construction of surveys
and grants, that the most material and certain calls must control those that are less material and certain. A call for a natural object, as a river, a known stream, or a spring, or even a
marked tree, shall control both course and distance.
The recent decision of French v. Bankhead, in the 11th of
Grettan, p. 186, decided by the Supreme Court of Virginia,
within which State are the lands embraced in this controversy,
has an important bearing upon the cause, as it shows the interpretation, by the highest tribunal of that State, of grants made
by her with reference to lines running to water-courses, and of
the effect of water-courses upon such boundaries. In the case
just mentioned it was ruled that the water boundary, though
run by course and distance, would. be controlled by the actual
course of the shore, add would pass the right to the property
to low-water mark.
Upon the reasoning hereinbefore declared, and upon the
authorities cited, to which others might be added, we are of the
VOL. XXI.
21

SUPREME COURT.
KendaZ e aZ. v. Winsor.

opinion that the patent from the State of Virginia, of the date
of July 29, 1851, was unwarranted and illegal, as having embraced within it lands which were not waste and unappropriated, but which had been previously granted by competent
authority, and long in the possession of the patentee and those
claiming title under him. We are further of the opinion that
the construction of the Circuit Court in relation to the character and effect of the elder and junior grants of the land in
controversy was correct, and that its decision should therefore
be, as it is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

GEORGE KENDALL, LEANDER

Mi. WARE,

AND GEORGE L. JENCKS,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOSEPr S. WINSOR.
The ultimate object of the patent laws being to benefit the public by the use of
the invention after the temporary monopoly shall have expired, one who conceals his invention, and uses it for his own profit, is not entitled to favor if
another person should find out and use the invention.
But this does not include the case of an inventor who forbears to apply for a patent until he has perfected his invention or tested its value by experiments.
Whether or not an inventor intended to do this, or negligently to ,postpone his
claims to a patent, as, for instance, by acquiescing with full knowledge in the
use of his invention by others, are questions which ought properly to be left to
the jury.
If a person should surreptitiously obtain knowledge of the invention, and use it,
he would have no right to continue to use it after the inventor should have obtained a patent.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Rbode Island.
The facts in the case, the instructions asked for and refused
upon the trial in the Circuit Court, and also those given to the
jury by the court, are all set forth in the opinion of the court.
Under these instructions, the jury found a verdict for the
plaintiff, and assessed his damages in the sum of two thousand
dollars.
It was argued by Mr. enckes for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mr. Yeller for the defendant.

