SUPREME COURT.
Uniled Sates v. Sutfer.

.Cow and H.,-notes, 354, 368, Reynolds v. Magness, 2 Ired.,
26, 1 Greenl. Ev., sec. 279.)
Parol testimony is always admissible in matters of contract,
to show fraud, notwithstanding its effect may be to contradict
what is in writing. That priniiple is too well established and
too generally acknowledged to require any confirmation. Parties have the rightto make their own contracts, and, in general, when they are satisfied, that is sufficient, and others have
no right to cbmplain. Cases, however, occasionally arise,
where a contract, though bona fide between those who made it,
may operate as a fraud upon third parties, and in this case,
assuming the facts to be as they have been found by the jury,
and as the evidence tends to prove, that the stipulation in question was inserted in those charters for the purpose of enabling
the defendants, by that device, to avoid their responsibility to
the plaintiffs, whether the owners of the vessels knew the purpose or not, the act so far partakes of the nature of a fraud
between the parties to this suit as to authorize the introduction
of parol evidence, to show what the truth was in regard to
those transactions.
For these reasons, we are of the opinion that the instruclions given by the Circuit Court were correct, and that there
is no error in the record.
The decree of the Circuit Court therefore is affirmed, with
costs.
Mr. Justice WAYNE, Mr. Justice CATRON, and Mr. Justice GRIER, dissented.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. 'JOHN A. SUTTER.
The evidence is satisfactory to this court, that Alvarado, the Governor of Califorma, granted a tract of land, to the extent of eleven leagues, to John A. Sutter,
in 1841.
Although the original grant has not been produced, yet there is sufficient proof
that it once existed, and was destroyed by fire. .A draught of the grant, pre
pared by the Governor, is found in the archives, and the grant was recorded
in the county registry of deeds, and this, together with the other evidence in

DECF M4BER TERM, 1858.
MWh~e
,St

v. &dteir.

the case, shows that it was genuine, and also the map which accompamed it.
Although the map was incorrect m its lines of latitude, yet it can be located by
its reference to natural objects.
This grant was authorized by the colonization laws of 1824 and 1828.
But another grant, purportifig to be issued by Micheltorena m 1845, for the sur
plus of the former grant being an additional quantity of twenty-two leagues,
does not stand in the same- position.
Supposing it to be genuine, yet the situation in which Micheltorena wa6 placed
at its date was such as to impair its validity. He had been driven from his
capital, was not in thA peaceful exercise of his official authority, and was
shortly after compelae to abdicate. The grant was not recognised by the per.
sons who succeeded him, nor was it produced by the claimant to be placed in
the archives. It was not a valid claim at the date of the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo.
Grantees under the claun may prosecute it for confirmation in the name of the
original claimant.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
It was a claim made by Sutter for land in California, under
two different grants.
1. A claim for eleven leagues of land, alleged to be granted
to him by Alvarado, on the 18th of June, 1841.
2. A claim for an additional quantity of twenty-two leagues,
alleged to be granted to him and his son, John A. Sutter, by
Micheltorena, on the 5th of February, 1845.
The board of commissioners confirmed both claims, and
this decree was affirmed by the District Court. The circumstances of the case are so fully related in the opinion of this.
court, that it is unnecessary to repeat them.

It was argued by Mr Black (Attorney General) and Mr
Bull for the United States, and by Mr OriGenden, Mr Butler,
and Mr Walker, for the defendant in error. The points made
in the argument are mentioned in the opinion of the court,
together with remarks upon them, which render it unnecessary
to, state the pointsmore particularly.
"Mr.'Justice CAMPBELL delivered.the opinion of the dourt.
This cause comes to this court by appeal-from a decree of the
District Court of the United States for the northern district of

SUPREME COURT
United State* v. SWfder.

Ca ifornia, which affirms a sentence or the board of commissioners to settle private laud claims in that State. in favor of
the appellee, upon a claim to .thirty-three square leagues of
land in the valley of the Sacramento river. The record shows
that 'the claimant, a native of Switzerland, immigrated to the
Department of California about the year 1839, was naturalized
as a citizen of Mexico, and with the leave of the Government
formed a settlement near the junction of the Sacramento and
American rivers, which he designated New Ielvetia. The
country at the time was uninhabited, except by bands of warlike Indians, who made frequent depredatory incursions upon
the undefended settlements to fhe south and- east of this place.
In two or three years after his arrival, the claimant was commissioned by the'Governor of California to guard the northern
frontier and to represent the Government in affording security
and protection to its inhabitants against the .invasion of the
Indians and marauding bands of hunters and trappers, who
occasionally visited the valley for plunder. In the year 1841
he commenced the erection of a fort at New Helvetia, at his
own expense. It was surrounded ,by a high wall, and was
defended by cannon. Within this fort there were dwellinghouses for his. servants and workmen, and workshops for the
manufacture of various articles of necessity.. There was a gristmill, tannery, and distillery, attached to the establishment. A
number of Indians were domestipated by him, and contributed
to cultivate his fields of grain, and to defend the settlement
from m~re.savage tribes. He was possessed of several thousands df horses and neat cattle, which were under the care of
his servants. There were collected at different times from
twenty to fifty families, and therd were in the course of yearp
some hundreds of persons connected with this settlement. He
is described as having been-hospitable ana generous to strangers, and -the Governors of California bear testimony to the
vigor with which he performed the duties of his civil and military commission.
In March, 1852, -he placed before the board of commissioners -a claim for eleven leagues of land, to include his place at
lNew Helvetia, and extending thence north, which were granted

DECE.MBER TERM, 1858.

173

United States v. Sutter.

to him by Juan B. Alvarado, Governor. of Califori ia, 18th of
June, 1841.
In March, 1853, he amended his petition and claimed an
additional quantity of twenty-two .leagues, which were granted
to him and his,son, John A. Sutter, the 5th of February, 1845,
by Micheltorena, the Governor of California; this being the
surplus (sobrante)contained within the limits from which hi
first grant was to be fulfilled. The espediente submtted tp the
board, with the grant of Alvarado,. and as a part of it, .represents that he is in possession of New Helvetia, and that his
enterprise there had the sanction of.the Government, and had'
been prosperous-; that he had associated with him andustrious
families; and that, besides, the advantage, to himself, he had
awakened industry, in others, and had also, by the strength of
his company, formed- a strong: barrier against the savage Tndians.. He asks to enlarg9 his establishment, by introducing
twelve families, and for this purpose solicits a grant of eleven
leagues -at his establiskmerLt of New Helvetia, from the Governor, together with his powerful influence before the supreme
Government of the nation, that its approbation might be given.
The Governor recognises the truth of the statements in the
espediente, and declares that he has beon sufficiently informed
that the land is vacant and suitable for the purpose of the
grantee. He granta~to the applicant, "for him and his settlers,
the said land, called New Helvetia, subject to the approbation
of the supreme Government and of the Departmental Assembly," and subject to four conditions. The 'third and fourth
relate to the boundaries of the land and the consummation of
the title, and are as follows "3d. The land of which donation
is made to hum is of the extent of eleven sitios de ganado mayor,
us exhibited in the sketch annexed to the proceedings, without
including the lands overflown by the swelling and current of
the rivers. It is bounded on the north by los Tres Picas (three
summits) and the 39' 41' 45" north latitude; on the. east by

the borders of the Rio de las Plumas; on the south by the parallel 380 491 32":of north latitude; and on the west by the
river Sacramento. 4th. When this property shall he confirmed
unto him, he 'shall petition-the proper judge to give him pos-

SUPREME COURT
United States v. &Wter

session of the 'and, in order that it may be measured, agreeably to ordinance, the surplus thereof remaining for the benefit
of t'e nation, for convenient purposes. Therefore, I order that
this title being held as firm and valid, that the same be entered
in the proper book, and that these proceedings be transmitted
to the excellent Departmental Assembly "
The first inquiry in cases like this is, has the authenticity of
the grant been established9 This was not questioned in the
District Court, but in this court the appellants have denounced,
with much force, the evidence as insufficient to support it.
The original issued to the donee was not produced either to
tha hoard of commissioners or the District Court. To account
for its non-production, two witnesses were examined, who say
that a paper, purporting to be an original, and which had the
appearance of authenticity, was in the possession of one of
-them, as the agent and attorney in fact of the claimant; that
this paper was destroyed by fire with the office in which both
lived in the fall of 1851. An affidavit of the claimant in another case is in the record, in which he says that the original
is lost. Some months before this fire, this paper was recorded
in the county registry of deeds, and the recording clerk affords
some evidence to the genuineness of the paper. It is shown
that it bad been exhibited in controversies before courts of
justice, and had been examined by adverse claimants and their
counsel, and at other times by interested and inquirng parties.
A grant f the same date, for the same quantity of land, in
the sanie locality, and issued by the same officer, was reported
to the United States by William Carey Jones, Esq., their agent,
as existing in the archives of California in 185.0. In his intercourse with the officers of the California Government, the claim-ant asserted his title to New Helvetia, and his assertion was
admitted, and accurate accounts of his location and settlement,
and the terms on which they were made, are to be found in
historical and descriptive works published under the authority
of foreign States, upon the testimony of their agents, who
visited California prior to 1845. (Fremont's Rep., 246, 1 Duflot de Moufras Explor. de l'Oregon and des Cal'as, 457 ) Be-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

175

United Sldes v. StItr

.sides this consistent testimony, there is produced from the
archives a draught-of a grant corresponding to that produced
from the county records, except in respect to the signatures.
The Governor, Alvarado, testifies that this draught was prepared byhim, and from it the original that issued to Sutter was
prepared by the secretary, and that the draught was deposited
by his directions, anI is now there. The fact that his name is
not attached to this draught does not impair its authority underthe circumstances of this case. (Spencer v. Lapsley, 20 How.,
264.)
We agree that the rule of law which requires the best evidence within the power or control of the party to be producedshould not be relaxed, and that the court should be,. satisfied
that the better evidence has not been wilfully destroyed nor
voluntarily withheld. But the rule on the subject does not
exact that the loss or destruction of the document of evidence
should be proved beyond all possibility of a mistake. It only
demands that a moral certainty should exist that the cort'has
bad every opportunity for examining and deciding the cause
upon the best evidence within the power or ability of the litigant. In every well-regulated Government, the deeds of-its
officers, conveying parts of the public domain, are registered
or enrolled, to furnish permanent evidence to its grantees of
the origin of their title. An exemplification of such a record
is admissible, as evidence of the same dignity as of the grant
itself. (Patterson v. Wynn, 5 Pet., 233, U. S. v. Davenport, 15
How., 1.) This rule exists in States which have adopted the civil
law. In those States, the deed is preserved in the archives, and
copies are given as authentic acts--that is, acts which have a
certain and accredited author, and merit cofifidence. The acts
thus preserved are public instruments, and all doubts that
arise upon the .copies that may -be delivered are resolved by a
reference to the protocol from which the copies are taken, and
without which they have no authority (1 White Recop., '297,
Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet., 607.)'
When, therefore, a protocol is found in the archives, the
non-production of the original given to. the party cannot furnish much cause for suspicion or alarm. The map to which

SUPREME COURT.
Unied Staft v. SuUer.
the grant refers, and which properly forms a part of it, is not
produced from the archives. The testimony of the witnesses
is, that there was a map aucompanying the original, and was
burned with it. An engineer or surveyor, (Vioget,) who prepared maps for the claimant, testifies that, in January, 1841,
he made duplicate maps for the claimant of the establishment
at New Helvetia, and surveyed eleven leagues at that place,
and that, in 1843, he traced a copy from one of thesp, and that
copy is produced and filed with the petition. It is a fair conclusion, from all the evidence, that these maps of Vioget were
presented to the Governor, and form the basis of the grant,
and make a part of it.
The secretary, Jimeno, who was examined in reference to
an application of the appellee for an enlargement of his establishment, by the donation of the sobrante,-says that a map accompanied the petition, and exhibited the land desired, that
he made a fivorable report upon the petition. The petition
for the surplus, or sobrante, implies there was an existing and
operative grant, which the authorities recognised and respected.
With this map, we have no difficulty in locating the grant so
as to include New Helvetia. Without it, the question would
be, whether the general description of New Helvetia should
overrule the particular description by metes and bounds, contained in the third condition, for it is ascertained that the
exact position of the line of latitude which determines the
southern boundary lies twenty miles north of the principal
establishment. But the map shows that the line of the southern boundary is south of New Helvetia, and is so related to
natural objects represented on it as to be easily determined.
Vioget accounts for the error in the designation of the line by
the imperfectiona of the instruments, and proves that a starting
corner was fixed, and the line traced on the gronnd. This is
better evidence of the true location of the southern line, and
conforms to the probabilities of the case. Upon the whole
evidence, we find that the grant and map filed with -the petition in 1852, before the board of commissioners, have been
proved. The authenticity of the grant being ascertained, the
question of its validity, as a colonization grant, under the

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

177

Uniked States v. Suffer.

laws of 1824 and of 1828, remains to be considered. To taese
laws, the authorities of California habitually refer as the sourceof their authority
The law of 1828 authorizes the political chief to grant lands
to an empresao who may wish to colonize; but that the -grant
shall not be definitely valid without the previous approbation
of the supreme Government, to which the epediente, with
such report as the Departmental Assembly may think fit to
make, shall be communicated. Before conceding lands, the
chief was directed to make inquiries that the candidate was
embraced by the laws, and that the land was suitable for colonization, and was not subject to any existing right.
The grant to the claimant recites that the Governor had obtained the information necessary, and that the requirements
of the law had been fulfilled.
No condition was imposed upon the claimant in respect to
the distribution of the- lands among the. families to be introduced. The object of the grant, on the part of the authorities,
seems to have been to secure the services of an efficient and
competent officer, in a distant and exposed portion of the
province, who would undertake to give repose and security to
the settlements in that region, and this distribution of lands
was confided to him as a trust, and a compensation for the
performance of that duty
The quantity of land was not greater than the colonzation
laws authorized an individual to hold, and the dnly care of the
authorities was, that the consideration of the grant should be
secured from the donee. The evidence is satisfactory that the
expectations of the -donors were entirely fulfilled. Duringthe
early administration of Alvarado and Mlicheltorena, the grantee
seems to have had the favor of the political authorities, and
in 1844 there was no objection. opposed by them to the enlarge.
ment of his enterprise. He was referred to for information in
business of the department, and, in the civil commotions that
preceded the overturn of the power of Micheltorena, he was the
principal stay of his administration, and when called in que.
tion, subsequently, by the enemies of his .chief, he said
"My establishment is situated between the San Joaquin and
voL..xxL
12

SUPREME TCOURT.
Unied States v. Suter.

Sacramento rivers. It is the -point which- forms the frontier of the Mosebulos Indians, who are those who attack the
ranchos and seize the horses. It is the road of transit from
the interior. These reasons, not less than the great distance
from my place to the other settlements, suggested to me the
propriety of building my fort, and in order to do so, I obtained
a license from the Government of the country "
Subsequently to February, 1845, he seems not to have been
molested by the Government of Mexico, but remained the only
representative of its power and authority in the valley of the
Sacramento. There was no inconvenience felt by the failure
to complete the grant, and there was no denunciation, by any
one, of-the land, for a breach of any condition. When the
treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was ratified, he was a citizen of
Mexico, in possession of the property comprehended in the
grant, and is entitled to all the guarantees provided by that
treaty for the Mexican population of California. He has submltted his claims to the tribunals appointed by the United
States within the term prescribed, and is ready to abide their
action in reference to them. We know of no law of the United States which guthorizes us to pronounce a sentence of forfeiture for any act or onission since the date of the treaty
Our opinion is, that- this grant is a valid claim under that
treaty
The grant purporting to be issued by Micheltorena at Santa
Barbara, the 5th February, 1845, and submitted to the board
of commissioners in March, 1853, remains to be considered.
The original of this grant was not produced. It is not in
the list of grants reported to the Government by Mr. Jones,
nor is it found in the archives of California. It has not been
placed upon the-county records of Sacramento county, nor is
there any evidence that it was ever produced in any of the
controversies for the-land included in it. There is no petition,
or reference to the secretary, oDr compliance with any other
formality prescribed by the law of 1828, preliminary to the
issue of grants for lands. The record shows, that in 1843, or
1844, the claimant applied for the sobrante or surplus, and
that his petition was referred to the secretary for further in-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

179

United States v. Sutter.

formation, and that he reported there was no objection; that
the Governor reserved the subject for consideration until he
could visit.the Sacramento valley, and that the papers were
returned to the claimant.
In February, 1845, there existed a revolt against the Government'of Micheltorena, in which the principal inhabitants
of California partieipated. Mficheltorena abandoned his capital, and, on his wpy to Los Angeles, reached Santa Barbara,
where the claimant joined hint with a body of "foreign volunteers." The deposition of Castanada, the aid-de-camp of Micheltorena, has been taken. He says that the claimant presented
a petition for a grant to himself and his son, that he (Castanada) drew the deed, and that it was executed-by the Governor
in his presence, at Santa Barbara, and that he believes that
the paper presented is a true copy One of the volunteers testifies that the. Governor made a speech to the volunteers, in
which he said he had granted to Sutter all the lands he had
claimed, (or asked for,) and that he had issued grants to all
the applicants for lands who had been licensed to settle in the
valley of the Sacramento. He says, about two months after.
he saw a grant in the hands of Sutter, which Sutter informed
him had been delivered at that time, and that he thinks the
present copy corresponds with the one he then saw.
The two witnesses who proved the loss of the other grant
testify that the original of this was destroyed at the same time
with the other, and that the paper produced is a copy of the
one destroyed.
This evidence is not entirely satisfactory to establish the execution of the grant. The two witnesses first named speak of
a paper they had not seen since 1845, nd one of them was not
familiar with the language in which it is written. One of
the other witnesses is largely interested as a grantee of the
claimant in the issue of this suit, and the fourth immigrated
to California after the treaty, was not conversant with the
Spanish language, and derived much of his impressions from
the parties who clauned title under Sutter, and of whom he
was the attorney
But we are not disposed to place the decision-of the cause

SUPREME COURT.
Uniked States v. ,Sutter.

upon the deficiency of the evidence of the execution of the
paper, and therefore do not pronounce absolutely upon it.
The decisions of the court show that they have been disposed
to interpret liberally the measures of the Mexican authorities
in Califoria, and to view with indulgence the acts and modes
of dealing of the inhabitants, having reference to the laws of
distribution and settlement of the public domain. The circumstances in which the Governor was placed required that
his power and discretion should not be circumscribed by narrow limits. In a remote province of the Mexican Republic,
he was almost the only representative of the general and common will of the nation, and he was habitually in collision,
sometimes in violent collision, with provincial feelings, sentiments, and interests. At the time this grant purports to have
been made, he was engaged in a civil war, which, after having
been smothered for a time, had burst forth with increased violence. Within two or three weeks from the date of the grant,
the war was terminated by the agreement of Micheltorena to
abandon tihe country. He never returned to the capital, except to prepare for his departure. The laws of Mexico for the
colonization and settlement of the public domain embody a
comprehensive and liberal policy, and the arrangements for
their execution denote care and circumspection on the part of
their authors in securing their faithful administration. They
authorize the Governor (politicos gefes) to grant lands to those
who may ask for them, for the purpose of cultivating and inhabiting them. They require that every person soliciting for
lands shall address the Governor a petition, expressing his
name, country, and profession, the number, description, religion, and other circumstances of his condition, and describing
as distinctly as possible, by means of a map, the land asked
for, that-the Governor shall obtain the necessary information
whether the petition embraces the requisite conditions required
'by the law as to the person. and land, and, if necessary, that
the municipal authorities might be consulted whether there be
an objection to making the grant or not; that the grants made
to private families o; persons shall not be hel4 to be definitely
valid without the previous consent of the Departmental Assem-

DECEMIBEIR TERM, 1858.
United States r Stdter.

bly, and, in case of their dissent, that it should be referred 'to
the supreme Government.. The defihitive grant bding made,
*adocument signed by the Governor shall-be given, wherein it
must be stated that said grant is made in conformity with the
provisions of the laws in virtue whereof postession: shall be
given, and that the necessary record shall *be kept, in a book "
destined for the purpose, of all the -petitions presented and
grants made, with the maps of the lands granted, and the -circumstantial report shall be forwarded quarterly-to the'supreme
Government.
The office of political chief of a State or Province has long
existed in Spain, (whence it was derived by Mexico,) and his
duties are defined with precision in the works on the "adninistrative law of that monarchy. ..The authoritative acts of this
officer assume. the form of ordinances and regulations, or of.
decrees and judgments. The former relate to the concerns of
the Department, and may issue spontaneously, while the latter:
always proceed upon a petition. There are scarcely any formulas prescribed for these acts. But there exist certain rules,
consecrated by usage, sanctioned by reason, and required by
justice, some of wich have received the assent of the legislator, and others are official regulations.
The administration has need of information, and hence the
political chief may consult with subordinate authorities and corporations in all business in which exact information is required
of local facts and circumstances, and he is bound to hear the
suggestions of the deputations and provincial assemblies when
the law requires it-a rigorous condition, a compliance with
which should appear in the recitals of the disposing part, and
the inserting of the customary formulas, that the act may not
be contested for excess of power. Finally, all the acts of the
political chief shall be authenticated by his signature, and it
concerns the good order of the administration thatthey should
be inserted in a special record. (Colmeiro derecho Admin.,
sees. 285, 286.)
Assuming the statements of the witnesses, Castanada and
Ford, to be accurate, it can hardly be contend.d'-that the
issue of this grant was an act of civil administration, or had

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. ,Sutter.

any reference to the law of colonization and settlement. At a
distance from the capital, in the prosecution of an intestine
war against a band of insurgents, surrounded by a body of
foreign volunteers, in whose fidelity his safety depends, the
Governor promises to dispose of the public domain as a compensation for service, or as an inducement to loyalty In a
few days this Governor is defeated, vacates his post, and his
troops are disbanded.
The hostile Government that succeeded to that of Micheltorena have not recognised the legality of the deeds of the
deposed chief, nor did the claimant (so far as we are informed)
attempt to obtain any sanction to his claim, or to introduce
the evidence in his possession among the archives of the Department, without which a perfect title could never have been
obtained. On the contrary, the record shows that he was a
captive in the hands of the enemies of Micheltorena, and was
released, after humble apologies, for his adherence to the unfortunate chief and protestations that in future he would be
loyal to the-existing authorities. He kept his grant concealed
apparently as a dangerous secret, until an entire change in the
political constitution of the country took place. In our opinion, thiawas not a valid claim at the date of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and is not entitled to recognition from the
United States:
It appears from the deeds in the record that the claimant-has
conveyed nearly-all of his estate in the land included in the
two grants, and objection is taken to the form of the suit. It
is contended that the claim should have been preferred by the
-grantees of the, claimant. We admit the force of the argument in fivor of the objection, and that the dormant interests
of persons not parties on the record may frequently disturb the
course of justice.
But the contrary practice was sanctioned in Percheman's
case, (7 Pet,) and has been followed since. It is competent to
persons interested in the claim to employ the name of the original claimant. (United States v. Pereheman, 7 Peters, 51,
United States v Patterson, 15 How., 10.)
The decree of the District Court is affirmed, in so.far as it

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
United States v. Butter.

relates to the grant bearing date the 18th of June, 1841, and
executed by Juan B. Alvarado, and is reversed in so far as it
relates to the grant purporting to have been executed -by
Micheltorena, at Santa Barbara, the 5th of February, 1845, and
the cause is remitted to the District Court for further proceedings in respect to the location of the grant of Alvarado, within
the limits set forth in the grant and the accompanying map on
file in the case.
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.
Mr. Justice .CLIFFORDI respectfully dissent from so much of the opinion of the
court as affirms that a proper legal. foundation was laid at the
trial for the introduction of parol evidence to establish the existence and authenticity of the Alvarado grant. When a concession of land is made by the Government to an individual'
under Mexican laws, as in this case, a duplicate copy of the
title-paper is required in all cases to be filed in the proper tribunal for registry; and unless that is done, it is difficult to see
how a legal registry can be made. That duplicate copy is in
the nature of an original paper, and, after registry, becomes
the foundation of all the subsequent proceedings of the Government to perfect the grant in the donee. Itwas the duty of
the purchaser in this case, in the absence of any original grant,
to produce that duplicate copy, if in existence, and if not, then
to account for its loss. According to the draught presented as
a copy, proved by parol evidence, the grant was made subject
to the approval of the supreme Government and of the Departmental Assembly It has never been decided that a grant
issued by a subordinate officer, subject to the approval of the
supreme Government, was valid without such approval, and,
in my judgment, the doctrine cannot be maintained without
subverting the essential principles on which every well-regulated Government rests. That grant was never approved,
either by the supreme Government or the Departmental Assembly. Under the circumstances disclose' in the record, I

184

SUPREME COURT.
Owners of Brig James Gray v. Owners of Sh

Johnt Frasere aZ.

cannot concur that it is the duty of the United States, under
the treaty, to disturb the possession of the settlers, while it

appears that there is better evidence to establish the right of
the donee, if any he had, to the land described in his concession. On the proofs exhibited, I am of the opinion that
the decree of the District Court should be wholly reversed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL
I fully concur in the above opinion.

WILLIAM CUsHrNG, JOHN N. CUSHING, AND CALEB CUSHING,
OF iEWBURYPORT, MASSACHUSETTS, OWNERS OF THE BRIG
JAMES GRAY, LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. THE OWNERS
OF THE SHIP JOHN FRASER AND THE STEAMER GENERAL
CLINCH.
An ordinance of the city authorities of Charleston, prescribing where a vessel
may lie in the harbor, how long she may remain there, what light she must
shuw at night, and making other siffilar regulations, is not in conflict with any
law of Congress regulating commerce, or with the general admiralty jurisdiction conferred on the courts of the United States. It is therefore valid.
A vessel at anchor is bound to show such a light as is required by the local regulations.
Where a vessel, being towed into port by a steam-tug, came into collision with a
vessel at anchor, and the steam-tug and vessel at anchor were both in fault,
the loss must be equally divided between them, provided the ship in tow was
thrown against the vessel at anchor without any fault or negligence on the part
of the vessel in tow.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of South Carolina, sitting in admiralty

It was a case of -collision, in the port of Charleston, under
the circumstances particularly set forth in the opinion of the
court.
The James Gray was at anchor, and the John Fraser was
being towed into the harbor by the steamer General Clinch,
when a collision ensued between the John Fraser and the
James Gray The owners of the latter libelled both the two

