DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

539

Commissioners of Knox County, Indiana, v. AsyinwaZ et aL

THE BOARD o COMMISSIONERS OF THE COU1NTY oF KNOX, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM H. ASPINWALL, JOSEPH W. ALSOP, HENRY CHAUNCEY, CARLES GOULD, AND SAMUEL L. M.

BARLOW.
Where the statute of a State provided that the board of commissioners of a county
should have power to subscribe for railroad stock, and issue bonds therefor, in
case a majority of the voters of the county should so determine after a certain
notice should be given of the time and place of election, and the board subscribed for the stock and issued the bonds, purporting to act in compliance
with the statute, it is too late to call in question the existence or regularity of
the notices in a suit against them by the holders of the coupons attached to the
bonds, who were innocent holders, in this collateral way.
In such a suit according to the true interpretation of the statute, the board were
the proper judges whether or not a'majority of the votes in the county had been
cast in favor of the subscription to the stock.
The bonds on their face import a compliance with the law under which they were
issued, and the purchaser was not bound to look further for evideuce'of a compliance with the condition to the grant of the power.
A suit could be maintained upon the coupons, without the production of the
bonds to which they had been attached.

THIS case was broughtup by.writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Beverdy Johnson and Mr. B. 'W.Thompson for the plaintiffs in error, on which side there was
also a brief by 3r. McDonald and XrM. _Porter, and for the defendants in error" by Mr. Benjamin and MA'r. Vinton, on which
side there was also a brief by Mr. Judah.
Upon the trial in the court below, the general issue and five
special pleas were filed. These pleas alleged the want of a
previous legal notice; that there ought to have been a notice
of the intention of the board to raise the subscription from
$100,000 to $200,000; that there was no record of the judgment of the board; that the bonds were issued all at the same
time, and not at the rate of one-fifth per year, as the statute

540

SUPREME COURT.
Commissioners !f Knox County, Indiana, v. Aspinwall et al.

required; and that the contract was in violation of the sixth
section of the tenth article of the Constitution of Indiana,
which took effect on the 1st of November, 1851.
To these pleas there was a demurrer, which was. sustained
by the Circuit Court.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error contended that the
demurrer admitted these facts; that the bill of exceptions contained also prayers to the court, which were refused, and instructions given to the jury, upon both points of which there
was error; that corporations could not go beyond their powers,
and of course the board could only bind itself according to law;
that the plaintiffs were bound to inquire into this; that the
notice was only published three times in a weekly newspaper;
that it was the policy of the board to keep back the notice as
long as possible; that the law did not authorize the issue of
coupons, because it said that interest should be paid to the
holder of the bond.
The counsel for the defendants in error contended that the
act must be liberally construed for the objects set forth, as the
act itself directed should be done; that bonds were usually
issued with coupons, and were authorized by the statutes of
Indiana; that the validity of the election might have been
tested by any elector interested, (Revised Statutes of 1843, p.
140 to 142;) that no proceeding can now be had to call it in
question; that a purchaser had a right to presume that those
whom the law intrusted with the duty complied with all the
preliminary acts which it enjoined on them, and that it was not
necessary to produce the bonds in court.
Mr. Justice NbELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.
The suit was brought in the court below against the board
of commissioners of Knox county, to recover the amount due
upon two nundred and eighty-four coupons, each for the sum
of sixty dollars, the whole amounting to the sum of seventeen

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

54t

Commissioners of Knox County, Indiana,v. ATinwall et a.

thousand and forty dollars. The coupons were payable at the
North River Bank, in the city of New York-one hundred and
forty-two of them on the 1st of March, 1856, and the remaining number on the 1st of March, 1857. These coupons were
originally attached to one hundred and forty-two bonds issued
by the defendants, for $1,000 each, the bonds payable at the
bank above mentioned, twenty-five years from date, to the
Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company, or bearer, with interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum, payable annually
on the 1st of March, at the bank, upon presentation and delivery of the proper coupons hereto attached, by the auditor
of said county.
The coupons declared upon and sought to be recovered are
those which were attached to these one hundred and forty-two
bonds, and represented the interest due thereon on the first of
March, 1856 and 1857. The plaintiffs are the holders and
owners of these coupons.
The main ground of the defence set up and relied on to
defeat the recovery is, that the defendant, the board of commissioners, possessed no authority to execute, or to autholize
to be executed, the bonds or coupons in question; and hence,
that t ey are obligations not binding upon the county of Knox,
which this board represents. Our chief inquiry, therfore, will
be, whether or not these several obligations were executed and
put into circulation, as evidences of indebtedness, by competent and legal authority.
The defendant is a body corporate, under the laws of the
State of Indiana, by the name of the board of commissioners
of the county, and very large. powers are conferred upon it in
matters relating to the police and fiscal concerns of the county.
The auditor of the county is to act as its clerk, and the sheriff
is to attend its meetings and execute its orders. It has a common
seal, and copies of its proceedings, sighed and sealed by the
clerk, are evidence in courts of justice. It-has power to dispose of the property of the county; to adjust accounts against
it; to raise revenue, and examine accounts of disbursing officers; and an appeal lies from its decisions to the Circuit Court.
(I R. S. of Indiana, pp. 180, 187.)

SUPREME COURT.
Commissioners of Knox County, Indiana,v. Aspinwal "et al.

On the 14th February, 1848, the Legislature of Indiana incorporated the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company, and
by the 12th section of the charter provided as follows:
"It shall be lawful for the county commissioners of any
county in the State of Indiana through which said railroad
passes, for and in behalf of said county, to authorize, by order
on their records, so much of said stock to be taken in said
railroad as they may deem proper, at any time within five
years after opening the books of subscription to said stock:
_Provided, however, That it shall be, and is hereby made, the
duty of said county commissioners, in any county through
which said railroad may pass in the State of Indiana, to subscribe for stock for and on behalf of said county, if a majority
of the qualified voters of said county, at any annual election,
within five years after said books are opened, shall vote for the
same." (Sess. Laws 1848, page 619.)
.This act was amended on the 15th January, 1849; and in
the second section it was declared to be the duty of the sheriffs
of the counties-and, among others, Knox county, the one in
question-forthwith to give notice of an election to be held on
the first Monday of March then next, to determine whether
said county would subscribe for the stock of the Ohio and
Mississippi Railroad Company, &c.; and if a majority of the
votes shall be given in favor of the subscription, the county
board of commissioners shall subscribe to said stock, &c., for
the county, to an amount not less than $100,000; Provided,
That the county board of any of said counties may, within
one .week prior to the said election, increase or lessen the
amount to be subscribed, of which notice shall be given at the
different precincts of said county on the day of the election, &c.
The third section provided that the county subscription shall
be payable in county bonds, bearing interest at the rate of six
per cent. per annum, payable annually on the first day of
March, redeemable at such time and place as the directors of
tAe company may determine, within thirty years from the date
of the subscription. The section then provides for the levying
of a tax annually upon the county by the board of commissioners, to meet the accruing interest on the bonds.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

543

Commissionersof Enox 0ounty, Indiana,v. AsTinwa7l et al.

The plaintiffs gave in evidence, on the trial, that at a meeting
of the board of commissioners of the county of Knox, on,the
26th February, 1849, it ordered, under the power given in the
second section above referred to, that the county subscribe
$200,000 of the capital stock of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company. And, also, that at a meeting on the 25th October, 1850, after reciting that, in accordance with the wishes
of the voters of the county, as expressed- at the election held for
that purpose in the several townships on the first Monday of
March, 1849, it is ordered that the auditor, in the name and
for the county of Knox, subscribe' to the capital stock of the
Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company four thousand shares
of fifty dollars each, or the sum of $200,000; and that the auditor be authorized to vbte at all elections and meetings of stockholders, or to appoint a proxy in his stead. And that, in pursuance of this direction, the auditor subscribed the four thousand shares, and received certificates in the name of the board
of commissioners of the county for the same; and also executed
and delivered the bonds of the county, as provided for in the
third section of the act of 1849, attaching thereto coupons for
the interest. The bonds and coupons in question were issued
under this authority.
This is the substance of the case, as presented on the record.
The ground upon which the want of authority to execute
the bonds in question is placed, is the alleged omission to comply with the requisition of the statute of 1849, in respect to the
notices to be given of the election to be held on the first Monday of March, at which a vote was to be taken for or against a
subscription of stock to the railroad company.
It is insisted that an irregularity or ornission in these notices
had the effect to deprive the board of this authority, or rather
furnish evidence that the power had never vested in it under
the act; and, further, that the plaintiffs are chargeable with a
knowledge of all substantial defects or irregularities in these
notices of the election, and not therefore entitled to the character of bona fide holders of the securities.
The act in purs 2ance of which the bonds were issued is a
public statute of a State, and it is undoubtedly true that any

SUPREME COURT.
Commissioners of Knox County, Indiana, v. A pinwall et al.

person dealing in them is chargeable with a knowledge of it;
and as this board was acting under delegated authority, he
must show that the authority has been properly conferred.
The court must therefore look into the statute for the purpose
of determining this question; and upon looking into it, we see
that full power is conferred upon the board to subscribe for the
stock and issue the bonds, when a majority of the voters of the
county have determined in favor of the subscription, after due
notice of the time and place of the election. The case assumes
that the requisite notices were not given of the election, and
hence that the vote not has been in conformity with the law.
This view would seem to be decisive against the authority
on the part of the board to issue the bonds, were it not for a
question that underlies it; and that is, who is to determine
whether or not the election has been properly held, and a majority of the votes of the county cast in favor of the subscription? Is it to be determined by the court, in this collateral way,
in every suit upon the bond, or coupon attached, or by the
board of commissioners, as a duty imposed upon it before
making the subscription?
The court is of opinion that the question belonged to this
board. The act makes it the duty of the sheriff to give the
notices of the election for the day mentioned, and then declares, if a majority of the votes given shall be in favor of the
subscription, the county board shall subscribe the stock. The
right of the board to act in an execution of the authority is
placed upon the fact that a majority of the votes had been cast
in favor of the subscription; and to have acted without first
ascertaining it, would have been a clear violation of duty; and
the ascertainment of the fact was necessarily left to the inquiry
and judgment of the board itself, as no other tribunal was provided for the. purpose. This board was one, from its organization and general duties, fit and competent to be the depository
of the trust thus confided to it. The persons composing it were
elected by the county, and it was already invested with the highest functions concerning its gene.ral police and fiscal interests.
We do not say that the decision of the board would be conclusive in a direct proceeding to inquire into the facts pre-

DEOEM3ER TERM, 1858

545

Gomnissioners of Knox County, Indiana,v. Aepinwaz et al.

viously'to the execution of the power, and before the rights and
interests of third parties had attached; but; after the authority has been executed, the stock subscribed, and the bonds
issued, and in the hands of innocent holders, it would be too
late, even in a direct proceeding, to call it in question. Much
less can it be called in question to the prejudice of a bona fide
holder of the bonds in this collateral way.
Another answer to this ground of defence is, that the purchaser of the bonds had a right to assume that the vote of the
county, which was made a condition to the grant of the power,
had been obtained, from the fact of the subscription, by the board,
to the stock of the railroad company, and the issuing of the bonds.
The bonds on their face import a compliance with the law
under which they weie issued "This bond," we quote, "is
issued in part payment of a sabscription of two hundred thousand dollars, by the said Knox county, to the capital. stock,
&c., by order of the board of commissioners," in pursuance of
the third section of act, &c., passed by the General Assembly
of the State of Indiana, and approved 15th January, 1849.
The purchaser was not bound to look further for evidence
of a compliance with the conditions to the grant of the power.
This principle was recently applied in a .case in the -Court of
Exchequer in England. (6 Ellis & Blackburn, p. 827, The
Royal British Bank v. Tarqcuand.) It was an action upon a
bond against the" defendant, as the manager of a joint stock
company. The defence was. a want of power under the deed
of settlement or charter to give the bond. One of the clausesin the charter provided that the directors might borrow money
on bonds in such sums as should from time to time by a general resolution of the company be authbrized to be borrowed.
The resolution passed was considered defective. Jervis, Oh.
B., in delivering the judgment of the court, observed: "We
may now take it for granted that the dealings with these com.panies are not like dealings with other partnerships, and that.
the parties. dealing with them are bound to read the statute
and the deed of settlement. But they are not bound to do
more. And thq party here, on reading the deed of settlement',
would fand, not a prohibition from borrowing, but a permissiio
VOL., XXI.

85

546

SUPREME COURT.
Commissioners of Knox County, Indiana, v. Wallace.

to do so on certain conditions. Finding that the authority
might be made complete by a resolution, he would have a right
to infer the fact of a resolution authorizing that which, on the
face of the document, appeared to be legitimately done." (See
also 5 Ellis and Bl., p. 245, S. C., and 25 E. L. and Eq., p. 114,
Macle v. Sutherland.) The principle we think sound, and is
entirely applicable to the question before us.
A question was made upon the argument, that the suit could
not be maintained upon the coupons without the production
of the bonds to wvhich they had been attached. But the answer
is, that these coupons or warrants for the interest Were drawr
and executed in a form and mode for the very purpose of separating them from the bond, and thereby dispensing with the
necessity of its production at the time of the accruing of each
instalment of interest, and at the same time to furnish complete evidence of the payment of the interest to the makers of
the obligation.
Some other minor points were made in the case upon the
argument, which we have considered, but which it is not important should be particularly noticed. We are satisfied the
judgment below is right, and should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DAN-EL dissenting.
In the case of the Knox County Commissioners v. Aspinwall
et al., it is my opinion, in the first place, that the Circuit Court
had not jurisdiction of the cause, one of the parties being a
corporation; and, secondly, I think that the comniissioners
being known to be a party, it was the duty of those who dealt
with them to ascertain the extent of their powers.

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE COUNTY OF KNOx, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. DAVID C. WALLACE.
The decision of the court in the preceding case again affirmed.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.

