SUPREME COURT.
KendaZ e aZ. v. Winsor.

opinion that the patent from the State of Virginia, of the date
of July 29, 1851, was unwarranted and illegal, as having embraced within it lands which were not waste and unappropriated, but which had been previously granted by competent
authority, and long in the possession of the patentee and those
claiming title under him. We are further of the opinion that
the construction of the Circuit Court in relation to the character and effect of the elder and junior grants of the land in
controversy was correct, and that its decision should therefore
be, as it is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

GEORGE KENDALL, LEANDER

Mi. WARE,

AND GEORGE L. JENCKS,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOSEPr S. WINSOR.
The ultimate object of the patent laws being to benefit the public by the use of
the invention after the temporary monopoly shall have expired, one who conceals his invention, and uses it for his own profit, is not entitled to favor if
another person should find out and use the invention.
But this does not include the case of an inventor who forbears to apply for a patent until he has perfected his invention or tested its value by experiments.
Whether or not an inventor intended to do this, or negligently to ,postpone his
claims to a patent, as, for instance, by acquiescing with full knowledge in the
use of his invention by others, are questions which ought properly to be left to
the jury.
If a person should surreptitiously obtain knowledge of the invention, and use it,
he would have no right to continue to use it after the inventor should have obtained a patent.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Rbode Island.
The facts in the case, the instructions asked for and refused
upon the trial in the Circuit Court, and also those given to the
jury by the court, are all set forth in the opinion of the court.
Under these instructions, the jury found a verdict for the
plaintiff, and assessed his damages in the sum of two thousand
dollars.
It was argued by Mr. enckes for the plaintiffs in error, and
by Mr. Yeller for the defendant.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

823

Kendal et al. v. W.Insor.

The points made by.the counsel on each side can be readily
inferred from a.perusal of the instructions asked for on behalf
of the defendants in the Circuit Court, and of those given,
which lattsr were sustained in the. argument in this court.
All of these instructions are set forth in the following.opinion.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action on the case in the Circuit Court 6f the
United States, instituted by the defendant in error against the
plaintiffs, for the recovery. of damages for an alleged infringement by the latter of the rights of the former .as a patentee..
No question was raised upon the pleadings or the evidence in.
this case as to the originality or novelty of the invention patented, nor with respeit to the identity of that invention with.
the machine complained of as an infringement of the rights of
the patentee, nor as to the use of that machine. These several
facts were conceded, or at any rate were not controverted, between the parties to this suit.
Under the plea of not guilty, the defendant in the Circuit
Court gave notice of the following defences to be made by
him:
1. A license from the plaintiff to use his invention.
2. A right to use that invention in virtue of the seventh
section of the act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1839,_which
section provides, "That every person or corporation who has
or shall have, purchased or constructed any newly-invented
machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, prior to* the
application of the inventor or discoverer for a patent, shall be
held to possess the right to use, and vend toothers to be used,
the specific machine, manufacture, or ebmposition'of matter,
so made or purchased, without liability therefor to the'inventor
or any other person interested in such invention."
To the relevancy and effec of the evidence adduced with
reterence to the two defenced thus'notified, and to the questions of law arising upon the issues made by those defences,
this controversy is properly limited.
- Upon the trial in the Circuit Court, in support of this defence, evidence was introduced tending to show that theplain-

,SUPREME COURT.
Kendall et al. v. Winsor.

tiff constructed a machine in substantial conformity with his
specification as early as 1846, and that in 1849 he had several
such machines in operation, on which he made harness to supply all such orders as he could obtain; that he continued to
run these machines until he obtained his letters patent; that
he repeatedly declared to different persons that the machine
was so complicated that he preferred not to take a patent, but
to rely on the difficulty of imitating the machine, and the
secrecy in which he kept it. And the defendants also gave
evidence tending to prove that the first of their machines was
completed in the autumn of 1853, and the residue in the
autumn of 1854; and that, in the course of that fall, the plaintiff had knowledge that the defendants had built, or were
building, one or more machines like his invention, and did not
interpose to prevent them.
The plaintiff gave evidence tending to prove thiat the first
machine built by him was never completed so as to operate;
that his second machine was only partially successfut, and improvements were made upon it; that in 1849 he began foiir
others, and completed them in that year, and made harness on
them, which he sold when he could get orders; that they were
subject to some practical difficulties, particularly az it respected
the method of marking the harness, and the liability of the bobbin to get out of the clutch; that he was employed in devising
means to remedy these defects, and did remedy them; that he
also endeavored to simplify the machine by dsing only one
ram-shaft; that he constantly intended to take letters patent
when he should have perfected the machine; that he applied
to Mr. Keller for this purpose in February, 1853, but the modei
and specifications were not sent to Washington till November,
1854; that he kept the machines from the view of the public.
allowed none of the hands employed in the mill to introduce
persons to view them, and that the hands pledged themselves
not to divulge the invention; that among the hands employed
by the plaintiff was one Kendall Aldridge, who left the plaintiff's employment in the autumn of 1852, and entered into an
arrangement with the defendants to copy the plaintiffs machine for them, and did so; and that it was byAldridge, and

DECEIBER TERM, 1858.

825

XendaZ et al. v. Winror.

under his superintendence, aid by means of the knowledge
Which he had gained while in the plaintiff's employment.
under a pledge of-secrecy, that the defendant's maclines were
built and put in operation; and that one of the defendants had
procured drawings of the plaintiff's machine, and has taken
out letters patent for it in England.
Each party controverted the facts thus sought to be proved
by the other.
The defendant's counsel prayed the court to instruct the
jury as follows:
1. That it is the duty of an inventor, if he would secure the
protection of the patent laws, to apply for a patent as soon as
his machine (if he'has invented a machine) is in practical working order, so as to wbrk regularly every day in.
the business
for which it was designed; and if he does not so apply, he has
no remedy against any pei-sons who possess themselves of the
invention, with his knowledge and. without his notification to
desist, or of his claims as an inventor before he applies for his
patent.
2. That a machine can no longer be considered as an experiment, or the subject of experiment, when it is worked .regularly, in the course of business, and produces a satisfactory
fabric, in quantities sufficibnt to supply the entire demand for
the article.
8. That in order to justify the delay of the plaintiff in applying for a patent after his machine was in practical working
order, on the ground of the desire to improve and perfect it,
the plaintiff must show some defect in construction, or difficulty in the operation or mode of operation, which he desired
and expected to remove by further thoukht and study; and if
no such thing is shown, then the machine must be held to have
been completed and finished, in the sense of the patelt .law,
at the time it was put in regular working use and operation.
4. That under the 7th section of the act of 1839, entitled,
&c., if the jury are satisfied that the machines for the use of
which the defendants are sued were constructed and put in
operation before the plaintiff applied for his patent, then the
defendants possessed the right to use, and vend to others to be

SUPREME COURT.
KendaZZ et al. v. Winsor.

-

used, the specific machines made or purchased by them, without liability therefor to the plaintiff; and the jury arb to inquire and find only-the fact of such construction before the
date of the plaintiff's application, in order to render a verdict
for the defendants.
5. That under said section of said act, if the machines used
by the defendants were purchased or constructed by them
before the application of the plaintiff for his patent, with the
knowledge of the plaintiff, then they must be held to possess
ihe right to use, and vend to others to be used, the machines
so purchased or constructed; and the jury are to inquire into
and find only the fact of such purchase or construction, and
that the plaintiff had knowledge of the same, in order to render a verdict for the defendants.
6. That under said section of said act, if the machines used
by the defendants were purchased or constructed by them
before the application of the plaintiff for his patent, without
the knowledge of the plaintiff, and without his notifying the
defendants of his claim as the inventor, and requiring them to
desist from such construction, then they must be held to possess the right to use, and vend to others to use, the machines
so purchased or constructed; and the jury are to inquire only
into and find the fact of such purchase or construction, and
that the plaintiff had knowledge of the same, and did not notify the defendant to desist from such purchase or construction
of his claims as inventor, in order to render a verdict for the
defendants.
The court set aside all those prayers for instructions, and did
instruct the jury as follows:
1. That if Aldridge, under a pledge of secrecy, obtained
knowledge of the plaintiff's machine-and he had not abandoned it to the public-and thereupon, at the instigation of the
defendants, and with the knowledge, on their part, of the surreptitiousness of his acts, constructed machines for the defendants, they would not have the right to continue to use the
same after the date of the plaintiffs letters patent. But if the
defendants had these machines constructed before the plaintiff's applicaonfor his letters patent, under the belief authorized by him that he

DECEMBER-TERM, 1858.

827

KendaZ et a. v. Winsor

consented and allowed them so to do, then they might lawfully
continue to use the same after the date of the plaintiff's letters
patent, and the plaintiff could not recover in this action. And
that if the jury should find that the plaintiff's declaration and
conduct were such as to justify the defendants in believing he
did not intend to take letters patent, but to rely on the difficulty of imitating his machine, and the means he took to keep
it secret, this would be a defence to the action. And theywere
further instructed, that to constitute such an abandonment to
the public as would destroy the plaintiff's right to take a patent, in a case where it did not appear any sale of the thing
patented had been made, and there was no open public exhibition of the machine, the jury must find that he intended to
give up and relinquish his right to take letters patent. But if
the plaintiff dild intend not to take a patent, .and manifested
that intent by his declarations or conduct, and thereupon it
was copied by the defendant, and so went into use, the plaintiff could not afterwards take a valid patent.
'To which refusal to give the instructions prayed for, as well
as to the instructions'given, the defendants, by their counsel,
excepted before the jury retired from the bar; and, as the matter thereof did not appear of record, prayed the court to allow
and seal this bill of exceptions; which, being found correct,
has been allowed and sealed accordingly by the presiding
judge.
.B. R.- CURTIS,
[L. s.]
Justice Sup. C0. U. S.
The first ground of defence assumed under the notice from
the defendant in the court below-viz: a license from the patentee-may at once be disposed of by the remark that ido evidence was offered on the trial, bearing directly or remotely,
upon the fact of an actual license from the patentee, either to
the defendant or to any person whomsoever. The defence
then must depend exclusively upon the proper construction of
the section of the law above cited, and the application-of that
section to the conduct of the parties, as shown by the bill of
exceptions.
It is undeniably true, that the limited and'temporary mo-

SUPREME COURT.
gendal et d. v. Winsor

nopoly granted to inyentors was never designed for their exclusive profit or advantage; the benefit to the public or community at large was another and doubtless the primary object in
granting and securing that monopoly. This was at once the
equivalent given by the public for benefits bestowed by the
genius and meditations and skill of individuals, and the incentive to further efforts for the same important objects. The
true policy and ends of the patent laws enacted under this
Government are disclosed in that article of the Constitution,
the source of all these laws, viz: "to promote the progress of
science and the useful arts," contemplating and necessarily implying their extension, and increasing adaptation to the uses
of society. (Vide Constitution of the United States, art. I,
sec. 8, clause 9.) By correct induction from these truths, it
follows, that the inventor who designedly, and with the view
of applying it indefinitely and exclusively for his own -profit,
withholds his invention from the public, comes not within the.
policy or objects of the Constitution or acts of Congress. He
does not promote, and, if aided in his design, would impede,
the progress of science and the useful arts. And with a very
bad grace, could he appeal for favor or protection to that society which, if he had not injured, he certainly had neither benefitted nor intended to benefit. Hence, if, during such a concealment, an invention similar to or identical with his own
should be made and patented, or. brought into use without a
patent, the latter bould not be inhibited nor restricted, upon
proof of ita identity with a machine previously invented and
withheld and concealed by the inventor froth the public. The
rights and interests, -whether of the public or of individuals,
can .never be made to yield to schemes of selfishness or cupidity; moreover, that which is once given to or is invested in the
public, cannot be recalled nor taken from them.
But the relation borne to the public by inventors, and the
obligations they are bound to fulfil in order to secure from
the former protection, and the right to remuneration, by no
means forbid a delay requisite for completing an invention, or
for a test of its value 6r success by a series .of sufficient and
practical experiments; nor do they forbid a discreet and rea-

DECEM3ER TERM, 1858.

329

Kendd et al. v. W-nWor.

sonable forbearance to proclaim the theory or operition of a
discovery during its progress to completion, and preceding an
application for protection in that discovery. The former may
be highly advantageous, as tending to the perfecting the invention; the latter may be indispensable, in order to prevent a
piracy of the rights of the true inventor.
It is the unquestionable right of every inventor to confer
gratuitously the benefits of his ingenuity upon the public, and
this he may do either by express declaration or by conduct
equally significant with language-such for instance, as an acquiescence with full knowledge in the' use of his invention by
others; or he may f6rfeit his rights as an inventor by a wilful
or negligent postponement of his claims, or by an attempt to
withhold the benefit of his improvement from the public until
a similar or the same improvement should have been made and
introduced by others. Whilst the remuneration of genius and
useful ingenuity is a duty incumbent upon the public, the
rights and welfare of the community must be fairly dealt with
and effectually guarded. Considerations of individual emolument can never be permitted to operate to the injury of these.
But, whilst inventors are bound to diligence and fairness in
their dealings with the public, with reference to their discoveries on the other hand, they are by obligations equally strong
entitled to protection against frauds or wrongs practiced to
pirate from them the results of thought and labor, in which
nearly a lifetime may have been exhausted; the fruits of more
than the vigind annorum lucubrationes, which fruits the public
are ultimately to gather. The hield of this protection has
been constantly interposed between the -inventor and fraudulent spoliator by the courts in England, and most signally and
effectually has this been done by this court, as is- seen in the
cases of Pennock &Sellers v. Dialogue, (2 Peters, 1,) and of Shaw
v. Cooper, (7 Peters, 292.) These may be regarded as leading
cases upon the questions of the abrogation or relinquishment
of patent privileges as resulting from avowed intention, from
abandonment or neglect, or from use known and assented to.
Thus, in the formpr case, the court, on page 18, interpreting
the plbrase, "not known or used before the applicationfor a patent,

SIUPREME COURT.
Kendall et aZ. v. WTnsor.

make the inquiry, 'what is the true meaning of the words not
known or used,' &c. They cannot mean that the thing invented
was not known or used before the application by the inventor
himself; for that would be to prevent the only means of his
obtainihg a patent. The USE as well as the KNOWLEDGE of his
invention must be indisputable, to enable him to ascertain its
competency to the end proposed, as well as to perfect its component parts. The words, then, to have any rational interpretation, must mean, not known or used by others before the application. But how known or used? If-it were necessary, as it
well might be, to employ others to assist in the original structume or use by the inventor himself, or if before his application
his invention should be pirated by another, or used without his consent, it can. scarcely be supposed that the Legislature had within its contemplation such knowledge or use." Further on inthe same case, page 19, the court say, "If an inventor should
be permitted to hold back from the knowledge of the public
the secrets of his invention, if he should for a long period of
years retain the monopoly, and make and sell his invention
publicly, and thus gather the whole profits of it, relying on his
superior skill and knowledge of the structure, and then, and
then only, when the danger of competition should force him
to secure the exclusive right, he should be allowed to take out
a patent, and thus exclude the public from any further use
than what would be derived under it during his fourteen years,
it would materially retard the progress of science and the useful arts, and give a premium to those who should be least
prompt to communicate their discoveries." In Shaw v. Cooper,
(7 .Peters,) this court, on page 319, in strict coincidence with
1he decisioh in 2 Peters, say, "The knowledge or use spoken
of in the statute could have referred to the public only, and
cannot be applied to the inventor himself; he must necessarily have a perfect knowledge of the thing invented and its
use, before he can describe it, as by law he is required to do
preparatory to the emanation .of a patent. But there may be
cases in which the knowledge of "the invention.may be surreptitiously obtained, and communicated to the public, that do not
uffect the right of the inventor. 'Under such circumstances,

DECEMBER. TERM, 1858.

331

Thmnas v. Lawson et al.

no presumption can arise in favor of an abandonment of the
right to the inventor to the public, though an acquiescence on
his part will lay the foundation for such a presumption."
The real-interest of an inventor with respect to an assertion
or surrender of his rights under the Constitution and laws of
the United States, whether. it be sought in his declarations or
acts, -or in forbearance or neglect to speak or act, is an inquiry
or conclusion offact, and peculiarly within the-province of the
iury, guided by legal evidence submitted to them at the trial.
Recurring now to the instruction from the judge at circuit
in this case, we con'sider that instruction to be in strict conformity with the principles hereinbefore propounded, and with
the doctrines of this court, as declared in the cases of Pennock
v. Dialogue and Shaw v. Cooper. That instruction diminishes
or excludes no proper ground upon.which the conduct and intent of the plaintiff below, as evinced either by declarations or
acts, or by omission to speak or act, and on which also the
justice and integrity of the conduct of the defendants were to
be examined and determined. -It submitted the conduct and
intentions of both plaintiff and defendants to the jury, as questions of fact to be decided by thbm, guided simply by such
rules of law as. had been settled with reference to issues like
the one before them; and upon those questions of fact the jury
have responded in favor of the plaintiff below, the defendant
in error. We think that the rejection by the court of the
prayers offered by the defendants at the trial was warranted
by the character of those prayers, as having a tendency to narrow the inquiry by the jury to an imperfect and partial view
of the case, and to divert their minds from a full comprehension of the merits of the controversy. The decision of the
Circuit Court is affirmed, therefore, with costs.
MARY

Azx THomAs, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. ELIZA LAWSON

AND OTHERS, HEIRS -AT LAW OF JAmES LAwsoN, DECEASED, BY
GEORGE A. GALLAGHER, THEIR GUARDIAN AD LITEM.
Where a deed was objected to in the Circuit Court on the ground of fraud, but
no specific grounds of objection were made, this court cannot inquire into the
correctness or incorrectness of the objection.

