526

SUPREME COURT.
Rogers et al. v. Law.

tribunals of the United States to revise and correct it, and not
for a State court. And as .regards the decision of the District
Court, it had exclusive and final jurisdiction by the laws of the
United States; and neither the regularity of its proceedings
nor-the validity of its sentence could be called in question in
any other court, either of a State or the United States, by habeas corpus or any other process.
But although we think it unnecessary to discuss these questions, yet, as they have been decided by the State court, and
are before us on the record, and we are not willing to be misunderstood, it is proper to say that, in the judgment of this
court, the act of Congress commonly called the fugitive slave
law is, in all of its provisions, fully authorized by the Constitution of the United States; that the commissioner had lawful
authority to issue the warrant and commit the party, and that
his proceedings were regular and conformable to law. We
have already stated the opinion and judgment of the court as
to the ex(lusive jurisdiction of the District Court, and the appellate powers which this court is authorized and required to
exercise. -And if any argument was needed to show the wis4om and necessity of this appellate power, the cases before us
sufficiently prove it, and at the same time emphatically call for
its exercise.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin must
therefore be reversed in each of the cases now before the
court.

LLOYD N.
EDMUND

ROGERS, ADMINISTRATOR

L.

OF ELIZA PARK

CUSTIS,

ROGERS, IN HIS OWN RIGHT, AND AS ADMINIS-

TRATOR OF ELIZA L.
PELLANTS, v. JOSEPH

ROGERS AND ELEANOR A. ROGERS, AP-

E.

IAW, BY MARY ROBINSON, HIS NEXT

FRIEND.

After an appeal has been docketed and dismissed under the 63d rule of court at a
prior term of the court, the same case cannot again be docketed without a new
appeal.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

D.ECEMIBER TERM, 1858.
.Britanv. Barnaby.

States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county
of Washington.
The dates of the several steps taken with respect to the appeal are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice McLEAi delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts, as they apjear of record, on the motion to dismiss
this appeal, are as follows:
The decree of the Circuit Court was pronounced 21st January, 1856. An appeal was prayed from said decree, and granted
the same day, 21st January, 1856. This appeal was. docketed
and lismissed under the 63d rule of this court, at December
term, 1856, to wit: 27th February, 1857; and a writ of procedendo was issued 19th May, 1857.
The appellants filed this record and docketed the case 3d
April, 1857. The record in this case stated that an appeal had
been prayed and allowed, but does not give any date. There is no
statement of any prior appeal in this record. The appeal bond
is dated 4th February, 1856. There is no citation in this record.
The appellants filed the citatibnand bond, 30th April, 1857,
and directed the clerk to docket this case, to transfer the record filed in the last case to this, to attach said citation and
bond to said record, and to print all the papers in this case.
There is no statement of any other appeal than that set out;
and this seems to be the appeal that was docketed and dismissed 27th February, 1857.
As the record now stands, it is not perceived how this appeal
can be sustained.

JoHN W. BRITTAx, APPELLANT, v. WiLLIAm A. BARNABY, CLAIM-

A.NT oF THE SHIP ALiONI.
The freight upon a shipment of goods is payable, according to general rules,
when the merchandise is in readiness to be delivered to the person having a

right to receive it, and when the consignee has had the opportunity to exam

