SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. v. Chamberlainet al.

Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
Mr. Justice DANIEL:
In the case of the Atlantic and the Ogdensburgh, it is my
opinion that the admiralty powers of the United States courts
do not embrace such a case.

EBER

B. WARD AND STEPHEN CLEMENT, SURVIVORS OF SAMUEL

WARD, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V. PHILO CHAMBERLAIN AND
JOHN H.

CRAWFORD, CLAIMANTS OF THE PROPELLER OGDENS-

BURGH.

Where a libel was filed by the owners of a steamer against the owners of a propeller for a collision, and there was an agreement between the parties in the
court below, that the answer of the respondents should operate as a cross-libel,
the mode of proceeding does not meet the approval of this court and ought not
to be drawn into precedent. The respondents should file theircross-libel, take
out process, and have it served in the usual way.
The decision in the preceding case again affirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of Ohio.
It was in fact a cross-appeal in the preceding case, although
there was no cross-libel filed. Being a branch of same case, it
was argued by the same counsel.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in admiralty from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of Ohio.
The appellants in this suit were the libellants in the case of
Chamberlain et al. v. Ward et al., decided at the present term,
and the questions to be determined have respect to the same
subject-matter which was in controversy in that case, and come
before the court upon the same pleadings and testimony. In
that case, Ward et al., as owners of the steamer Atlantic, filed
their libel in the District Court against Chamberlain et al., as

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

573

Ward et al. v.Ciamberlainet al.

owners of the propeller Ogdensburgh, to recover the damage
sustained by the steamer in a collision which occurred between
those vessels on the 20th day of August, 1852, while navigating on the waters of Lake Erie. After thi process was served,
Chamberlain et al. appeared and filed their answer to the libel.
In the answer, after setting up several defences, they alleged,,
among other things not necessary to be noticed, that the collision was not occasioned by the negligence, inattention, or want
of proper care and skill, on the part of the master or crew of the
propeller, but wholly through the fault, neglect, and unskilfulness, of the master and crew of the steamer, and set forth
the grounds on which those allegations were based, and prayed
that their answer to the libel might also be taken as a crosslibel in their behalf against Ward et al., to recover the damage
which the propeller sustained by the collision.
On the twenty-sixth day of April, 1853, the parties entered
into an agreement, which is a part of this record, that the
answer of the respondents should operate as d cross-libel, and
that the claims of both parties should be considered ly the
coiut in weighing the evidence, and be adjudicated upon in
the final decree. Afterwards, at the final hearing in the District Court, on the merits of the case, the libel was dismissed
upon' the ground that the steamer was wholly in fault; and,
under the agreement of the parties that the answer should
operate as a cross-libel, a decree was entered in favor of Chamberlain et al., for the amount of the damage occasioned to the
propeller. Ward et al., as owners of the Atlantic, appealed
to the Circuit Court, where the decree of the District Court
dismissing the libel and awarding damages to the propeller, as
upon a cross-libel, was in all things reversed. That reversal
was made upon the ground that the collision was the result of
mutual fault, and that the damages and costs ought to be
equally divided. Injuries had been sustained by the propeller
to the amount of three thousand dollars, and the agreed value
of the steamer at the time of her loss was seventy-five thousand dollars, and accbrdingly a decree was entered in favor of
Ward et al. for the sum of thirty-six thousand dollars, together
with a moiety of the costs in both courts. From that decree

SUPREME COURT.
Ward et al. v. Chamberlainet al

Chamberlain et al. appealed to this court, and the appeal was
regularly docketed, and the case has been heard and decided
by the court, upon the libel, answer, and proofs, as exhibited
in the transcript. At the same time, Ward et al., the present
appellants, also appealed -from so much of the decree of the
Circuit Courtas found the Atlantic in fault, and directed that
the damages should be divided. They appealed as respondents in the cross-libel, and under the agreement before referred
to, as sanctioned in the District Court, filed a separate copy of
the record, and regularly docketed the appeal, as in the case
of a cross-libel, the answer in the other record constituting the
libel in this case.
We have been thus particular in adverting to these proceedings, in order that the relation which the respective parties
bear to this controversy, and the state of the pleadings, may
be fully and clearly understood, and for the purpose of remarking that they are unusual, and do not meet the approval
of this court, and ought not to be drawn into precedent. Respondents in a pending libel have the right, in a proper case,
to institute a cross-libel to recover damages against the libellants in the primary suit; but they should.file their libel, take
out process, and have it served in the usual way; and when that
is done, the libellants in the first suit regularly become respondents in the cross-libel, and, as such, they must answer or stand
the consequences of default. Regularity in pleading is both convenient and essential in judicial investigations, and such departures from the usual practice as are exhibited in this record
ought not to receive countenance. This appeal was taken, and
has been prosecuted upon the ground that the Circuit Court
erred in coming to the conclusion that the Atlantic was in
fault. That question we have already considered and decided
iri the other appeal, and the conclusions there stated, and the
reasons for them, are applicable to this case. As before remarked, both appeals were taken from the same decree, and
the questions presented for the decision of the court are in all
respects the same, and depend upon the same testimony. In
that case, the court held that the Atlantic was chargeable with
fault upon three grounds:

DECEMBER TERI, 1858.

575

White v. ermont and .lassachusettsRailroad Company.

1. Because the officer in charge of her deck did not exercise
proper vigilance to ascertain the character of the approaching
vessel after he discovered the white lights, which subsequently
proved to be the white lights of the propeller.
2. That she was also in fault because the officer of her deck
did not seasonably and effectualt change the course of the
vessel, or slow or stop her engines, after he discovered- those
lights, so as to prevent a collision.
3. That she. was also in fault because she did not have a vigilant and sufficient look-out.
Our reasons for these conclusions are filly stated in the
former case, and need not be repeated, Having already decided that the propeller also was in fault, the necessary result is,
that the decision of the Circuit Court was correct.
The decree of the Circuit Court, therefore, is affirmed, without costs.
Mr. Justice DANIEL and Mr. Justice GRIER dissented.
,-See dissent in the preceding case.

SELDEN

F. WHrE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE VERmoNT ADW
MASSACHUSETTS RAILROAD COmPANY.

Bonds issued by a railroad company in Massachusetts, payable in blank, no payee
being inserted, and issued to a citizen of Massachusetts, which had passed
through several intervening holders, could be filled up by a citizen of New
Hampshire, payable to himself or order, and then suit could be maintained
upon them in the Circuit Court of the United States for Massachusetts.
The eleventh section of the judiciary act does not hpply to such a case.
The usage and practice of railroad companies, and of the capitalists and business
men of the country, and decisions of coirts, have made this class of securities
negotiable instruments.
The later English authorities upon this point overruled.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.

The facts are stated in the opinion of"the court.

