DECEMBER TER,

1858.

241"

Smih v. Ortom

It is ordered that the judgment of the Circuit Court be affirmed.

GEORGE SMIH, APPELLANT, v. JoHN J. ORToN.
After various proceedings in the mode of deeds, bonds, &c., the legal title to a
piece of property became vested in one person, and the equitable title in another.
The holder of the equitable title has a right to file a bill against the holder of the
legal title, to compel him to convey such legal title upon clearing off the encumbrances.
This right is not destroyed by the circumstance that the holder of the legal title
had succeeded in a suit against another holder of the legal title, to which suit
the holder of the equitable title was not a party.
The fact that neither party is in actual p6ssession of the premises is of no epusequence, because the controversy is with respect to the legal title.

THIs was an appeal fiom the District Court of the United
States for the district of Wisconsin.
It was before this court at a prior term, and. is reported in
18 Howard, 263. It is proper to remark that the bill, in this
case, set forth that the controversy in the State court, which
was referred to in 18 Howard, had become terminated.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by Mr. -Doolittlefor the appellant, upon which
side there was also a brief by ffr. Brown, and by,Zr. Gillet
for the appellee, upon which side there was also a brief by fr.
Mariner.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill was demurred to, and the demurrer sustained below,
and the facts appear only on the face of the bill. Davis held
the legal title to the two lots (Nos. 7 and 8) in dispute, lying in
or near the city of Milwaukee, in the State of Wisconsin. Davis
held the legal title as trustee for Otis Hubbard. In June, 1851,
Hubbard, for a good and valuable consideration, conveyed the
premises to Joachim Gruenhagin, by a deed in fee, by which
the grantee became seized of the entire interest of Hubbard.
VOL. XX.

16

242

SUPREME COURT.
&dth v. Orton.

In December, 1852, Gruenhagin, for a good and valid consideration, conveyed the premises to James S. Brown; and in
January, 1853, Brown, for a valuable consideration, conveyed
to the complainant, Smith. The complainant afterwards also
got deeds from Davis and Knab.
Hubbard had sold two other lots in Milwaukee to one Schram,
the title to which was outstanding in the names of persons residing beyond the State of Wisconsin. Schram required security for the title from Hubbard.
Butler, a relation of Hubbard, got Knab to give a bond
for title, binding himself jointly with Butler, as security to
Schram.
To secure himself against loss for his undertaking to
Schram, Knab required of Hubbard security to indemnify
him, should Hubbard be unable to make a title to the lots
sold to Schram; and Hubbard got Davis, who held the legal
title to the lots, to convey them to Knab as security, and for
no other consideration.
On the same day (22d of July, 1848) that the title bond to
Schram was made, IKnab executed to Butler a bond covenanting that if Butler would procure the deed from the trustees of
Hubbard, and comply with the bond to Schram, he (Knab)
would convey the lots to Butler, for which he held Davis's
deed; Butler failed to procure the deed, and Hubbard did so
himself.
In March, 1851, Butler assigned Knab's bond to Orton, the
respondent.
Hubbard never received any consideration wha. ver for the
lots thus transferred; and it is alleged that the bond from
Knab to Butler was a secret and fraudulent contrivance on
the part of Butler, to cheat Hubbard and obtain his property,
and that he was defrauded thereby.
Smith obtained a deed for the lots from Davis, and also one
from Knab; but as Davis had no interest, having long previously conveyed to Knab, nothing passed by his deed, unless,
as is assumed by the bill, an equity of redemption resulted to
Davis.

-

And, as Orton had filed a bill in a State court against Knab,

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

243

Smith v. OMon.

which was pending when Smith took his deed from Knab, and
as KFnab was not allowed to disavow his own bond, Orton got
a decree against :Knab for a conveyance of the legal title,
(whicl .onveyance was regularly made,) ahd therefore the deed from Knab to Smith was of no value. Having been-made whilst the suit was pending, it could only have any
useful effect on the contingency of Knab's successful defence.
Orton having succeeded, his decree related to the commence-.
ment of the suit, and gave him the elder and better legal title,
Smith's deed being "subservient to the rights of the parties
in litigation." (1 Story's Com. Eq., S.406.)
Orton has the legal title, beyond dispute. Smith is asserting Hubbard's equity and Davis's right of redemption; and
prays by his bill, among other things, "that Orton be decreed
to release to him (Smith) all claim or interest in said lots."
Nfeither party has, or ever had, actual possession of the
premises; nor is this of any consequence, as the contest is for
the legal title.
Butler certainly had neither a legal nor equitable interest in
the property when he sold to Orton. He held Knab's title
bond, with full knowledge that Knab held as trustee for Hubbard. And this bond was assigned to Orton, who, according
to the allegations of the bill, took it with Hubbard's equity
inhering to it.
What effect Orton's decree against Knab may have to protect Orton under the legal title, on a plea of bonafide purchaser
of .an equity, we decline to decide; nor will we discuss the
question, as this cause may again come before this court, and
involve that question.
The remaining question for consideration: is, whether Smith
can be heard in a court of equity, being an assignee of an
equitable interest in contestation.
Gruenhagin purchased and took a deed for Hubbard's equity,
and was clothed with his interest before any litigation was instituted affecting the title. And as neither Gruenhagin,
Brown, nor Smith, were parties to the suit of Orton against
Knab, the decree against Knab did not in any wise impair the
equity obtained from Hubbard, who likewise was no party to

SUPREME COURT.
Alle et at.v. NewbeMr.

that suit, and who had conveyed to Gruenhagin before it was
commenced.
Hubbard's equitable title being distinct from the legal title
in controversy between Orton and Knab, no reason existed
why it should not be the subject of a bonajfe sale, and transfer by deed, in like manner that a mortgagor's equity may be
sold and conveyed. After a mortgage debt is discharged, the
mortgagor or his assignee may compel the mortgagee or his
assignee to surrender the legal title. And that is substantially
the case the bill makes; for after Hubbard satisfied Schram's
bond made for title by Knab and Butler, Knab held the naked
legal title, with an undoubted right in Hubbard to call for its
surrender. And his assignee stands on the same footing. (4
Kent's Com., 157.) And so the statutes of Wisconsin in effect
provide. (Revised- Statutes of 1849, ch. 59, sec. 7 ; ch. 77,
sees. 6 and 7.)
We are of the opinion that the court below erred in sustaining the demurrer to the bill, and order the decree to be reversed, and remand the cause, with directions that the District
Court proceed in it according to the 34th rule of this court,
governing chancery proceedings.

IUthFUS

ALLEN

HENRY L.

AND

OTHERS,

NEWBERRY,

LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS,

CLAIMANT

V.

OF THE STEAMBOAT FASH-

-ION, &0.

The act of Congress passed on the 26th of February, 1845, (5 Stat. at L., 726,)
confines the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts upon the lakes to matters of contract and tort arising in, upon, or concerning steamboats and other
vessels employed in the business of commerce and navigation between ports
and places in different States and Territories upon the lakes.
It does not extend, therefore, to a case where there was a shipment of goods from
a port in a State to another port in the same State, both being in Wisconsin.
And this is so, although the vessel was a general ship, and bound, upon the voy.
age in question, to Chicago, a port in the State of Illinois.
What would be done in a.case of general average, the court does not nowdecide.

Tars was an appeal fiom the District Court of the United
States for the district of Wisconsin, sitting in admiralty.

