SUPREAE COURT.
Barreda 1 al. v. SiIsbee d al.

against Waterman and Jenckes & Farnum, the assignees, to
avoid the assignment; alleging that they have a lien upon the
property in New York,-or its proceeds, as creditors of Hams
& Waterman, because Waterman s assignment to Jenckes &
Farnum contained a reservation to the assignor, which, by the
laws of New York, was fraudulent. And so it would have
been, had the assignment been made in that State, by persons
residing there. But the assignment was made in the State of
Rhode Island, by a person and to persons residing there, and
is in every particular just such a one as, by the laws of that
State, merchants and others in failing circumstances, residing
there, are allowed to make in favor of creditors within that
State and those residing elsewhere, wherever the property of
the assignor may be. We see no cause for thinking it was
fraudulently made. The respondents deny it upon their oaths,
as responsively to the charge made by the complainants as
that can be done. The latter have not sustained their charge
by any proof whatever. For that cause alone, if there was no
other, we should concur with the circuit judge in the decree
given by him in this case. And we also concur with him, that
the complainants never acquired nor ever had any lien upon
the property in New York, so as to subject it legally or equitably to their demand against Harris & Waterman, either before or after it was carried into judgment in the Supreme
Court of New York. Deeming the grounds stated decisive of
this controversy, we abstain from a discussion of other points
learnedly and ably argued by the counsel in the cause in their
respective printed briefs. They were appropriate to the cause,
but we do not deem them necessary for the decision of it.
We direct the affirmance of the decree given in the court below

FREDERICK L. BARREDA AND PHILIP BARREDA, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. BENJAMIN H. SILSBEE, JOHN H. SILSBEE, BENJA
STONE, WILLIAM STONE, GEORGE T. SANDERS, AND
MIN W
WILLIAM

D.

PICKMAN.

Where a vessel was chartered to bring a cargo of guano from the Chincha Isands
to the United States, at the rate of twenty-five dollars per ton freight, with a

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Barreda d al. v. Silsbee et al.
stipulation that the ship should be-entitled to any advance in the guano freight
made by the charterers, and they subsequently chartered vessels to go from the
United States for guano, (reserving certain privileges to the charterers,) at the
rate of thirty dollars per ton freight, it was proper for the Circuit Court to leave
it to the jury to say, from all the evidence in the case, whether or not the real
contract in the last charters was to bring home guaeuo at the rate-of thirty dol,ars per ton freight.
Contingent agreements between merchants and ship-owners ought to receive a
reasonable construction, so as to carry their intentions into effect, and, m general, those intentions must be gathered from the language employed, the surrounding circumstances, and the subject-matter.
The case of Gether v. Capper, 80 Eng. C. L., examined.
The declarations and statements of the agents of the charterers, made at the time
of the execution of the subsequent charters above mentioned, were properly
admitted in evidence as part of the r'es gestae, and.to show that the charterers
were acting in bad faith towards the owners of the vessel which was first chartered.
Where the effect of a written agreement, collaterally introduced as evidence, depends not merely on the construction and meaning of the instrument, but upon.
extrinsic facts and circumstances, the inferences of fact to be drawn from it
must be left to the jury.
Moreover, the fact whdther or not the charterers had paid thirty dollars per ton
freight might have been proved by oral as well as written evidence.
'The authorities examined.
Although the contracts between the charterers and the last owners might have
been fair as between themselves, yet, if their effect was to work an unfairness
to the farst owners, parol evidence was admissible to show it.
Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
On the 11th of April, 1854, a charter-party was executed by
B. H[. Silsbee, acting owner of the ship Shirley, and F L. Barreda & Brother, residing in Baltimore, acting as agents for
the Peruvian Government. The charter-party provided that
the ship should "proceed to Callao, from Australia, where she
is at present bound," and take in a cargo of guano at the
Chineha Islands. The freight to be paid was at the rate of
twenty-five dollars in full per ton of 20 cwt. net, guano, custom-house weight.
At the conclusion of the charter-party, there was the following stipulation
"The ship to have the benefit of any advance on the guano
freights made by the charterers in the United States before

SUPREME COURT.
Barredae al. v. Silsbee et al.

she finishes loading at the islands. It is understood the ship
is to be laden as deep as prudent, without regard to the clause
restricting her to one-third above her register tonnage."
The principal question in the case was upon the construction of this clause, and whether chartering other vessels, under
the circumstances mentioned in the opinion of the court,
brought the case of the Shirley within its operation.
The opinion of the court also contains the instructions given
by the Circuit Court to the jui y, together with the exception
to evidence.
The case was argued by Mr Wallis and -4r Nelson for the
plaintiffs in error, and by Mr Brune and Mr Johnson for the
defendants in error.
At the trial in the court below, both parties, plaintiffs and
defendants, applied to the court, for instructions to the jury,
but.the court- rejected those offered on both sides, and gave
instructions of its own. In the argument here, all these prop
ositions were necessarily discussed, and it would not be possible to report these arguments without stating also the prayers
to the court below, which it is not considered necessary to do.
But the exception to the admissibility of' the parol testimony
stands in a different situation, and, with respect to that, the
points made by the respective counsel were as follows
For the plaintiffs in error, it was contended
8. That parol evidence was not admissible to affect the construction of the subsequent charters in question, or to show
any intentions or views.of the plaintiffs in error and the other
contracting parties in making them, because it is not pretended, and there is no evidence professing to show, that
there was any outside contract or understanding in reference
to any one of them, varying or qualifying the written stipulations in any. way, or that any intentions or views of the
plaintiffs in error, or of the other parties, were embodied or
carried out otherwise than in and through the writings themselves, by which, and which only, all parties agreed to be and
held themselves bound.

DECEKdBER TERM, 1858.

:149'

Barreda et al. v. Silsbee et al.

This point was in conflict with the court's second instruction,
and was raised by the sixth prayer of the plaintiffs in error.
Shankland v. The Corporation of Washington, 5 Peters,
394.
Sprig v. Bank of Mt. Pleasant, 14 Peteks, 200.
Selden v. Myers, 20 Howard, 509.
4. That even if parol evidence had been admissible at all,
under the circumstances stated'in the preceding point, the
particular parol proof especially objected to by the plaintiffs in
error was not, because it consisted exclusively of statements
made by agents of the plaintiffs, not only without authority,
but in direct opposition to the written instructions, which
It was not
constituted their special and only authority
offered on behalf of a party to whom the alleged representations were made, nor to show that any such party was induced,
by such representations, to enter into a contract by which he
did not intend and agree, knowingly, to be bound. It was the
naked offer of the unauthorized statements of agents-made
while negotiating contracts, which they were authorized to and
did negotiate-produced in evidence, neither to contradict nor
to qualify the written stipulations agreed on, nor to avoid the
instruments themselves, but merely to show the existence of
fraudulent intentions, which, if they existed at all, were not
otherwise carried out than by the writings, and the imputation of which is perfectly gratuitous.
This point was raised by the first exception of the plaintiffs in
error, and was in conflict with the court's second instruction,
also.
2 Starkie's Evidence, 34.
Farlie v. Hastings, 10 Yes. jun., 126, 12T.
Betham v. Benson, 1 Gow., 45.
5. That the imputation of fraud, on theapart of the plaintiffs
in error, was- not only gratuitous. but unnecessary. The utmost that could be made out of the charters with the $5 clause,
by the aid of all possib.e parol proof, would be, that they were
contracts for the use of vessels, out to the Ohincha Islands and
back to the United States, at $30 per ton of guano delivered.
Let them be as fraudulent as could -be desired, they could

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda et al. v. Silsbee et al.

amount to nothing worse than that. If that establishes an
"advance" on the Shirley's freight, it is quite clear that a
single charter-party, with provisions equivalent to that, must
make out the case of the defendants in error as effectually as
fifty.fNow, all the charter-parties, with the $5 clause, negotiated by 'Nesmith & Sons, are actually, ii terms, to that identical effect, without the assistance of parol proof. All of the
vessels so chartered were to proceed "direct" from New York
or the other ports in the United States where they were.
The owners elected to do so, in the very act of making the
contracts, and the language of the charters was altered accordingly. The case of the defendants in error could not be bettered, therefore, by showing that the Boston charters, with
the aid of parol testimony, amounted to what was patent on
the New York charters, without it. Hence the parol proof in
controversy was as superfluous as it was in opposition to what
are believed to be the established rules of evidence.
The counsel for the defendants in error contended:
2. Parol testimony of the declarations and statements of
Nesmith & Brown, the agents of F. L. Barreda &Bro., made by
them in respect to the charter-parties which they were negotiating, prior to and at the time of the execution thereof, are
admissible and competent evidence to explain the meaning and
purpose of unusual provisions, to inform the ship-owners
whether the plaintiffs in error meant to avail themselves of
privileges reserved in the charters, or would waive them, as
well as to show the true character of the transaction, that
there was in fact a rise in freights, to the benefit of which the
defendants in error were entitled, and that it was the -object
of the plaintiffs in error to disguise and conceal su(h rise by
the form of the charter-parties executed by them.
U. S. v. Gooding, 12 WI., 469, 470.
American Fur Co. v. U. S., 2 Pet.4 864.
Stokes v.Saltonstall; 13 Pet., 183, 186, 194.Wood v. U. S., 16 Pet., 860.
Wescot v. Bradford, 4 Wash- C. C. R., 500.
Hayes v.-Rutter, 24 Pick., 245.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

151.

Barreda et al. v. Silsbee et al.

Hammett v. Emerson, 27 Maine, 332, 335.
Franklin Bank v. Steward, 37 ib., 524.
Wilson v. Hart, 7 Taun., 303.
Crocker v. Lewin, 3 Sumner, 1, 6, 10.
Jasigi v. Brown, 17 How., 183.
1 Greenleaf's Ev., sec 285.
2 Cowen Phillips's Ev., (3d Amer* Ed.,) 354, 368, 369.
Note 200, p. 587.
2 Statkie's Ev., (7th Amer. Ed.,) 765, 766, 790, 791.
Gresley's Eq. Ev., 288.
Powell on the Law of Evidence, 144, 147.
96 Law Library, 100, 102.
Duvall v. Medtart, 4 H. and I., 15.
Byer v. Etnyre, 2 Gill, 160.
The U. S. v. The Amistad, 15 Pet., 594.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
It is an action of indebitatus assumpsit, and was brought in the
court below by the defendants in error, who were the original
plaintiffs, to recover the freight earned by the ship Shirley on
a charter of the ship made by the plaintiffs to the original defendants for the transportation of guano from the Chincha
Islands to the United States. At the date of the charter-party, the defendants were the agents of the Peruvian Government, and, as such, bad 'been for some time in the habit of
chartering vessels to bring guano to the United States for sale.
Its exportation from the islands is a Government monopoly,
in -which none except those employed by the Government are
permitted to engage, and the defendants are the sole agents
of that Government in the United. -States. They reside in
Baltimore, and have agents in New York and Boston, duly
authorized to negotiate for vessels, and, after the charters are
signed by the owners, to transmit them to the defendants for
their. approval and signature. Their agents in Boston negotiated the charter of the Shirley, and, after it was executed in
behalf of the owners, it was accordingly trarysmitted and signed

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda el al. v. Stsbee e al.

by the defendants. It is dated Boston, April 11, 1854, and
recites, among other things, that the Shirley was then lying at
New York, and that she was to proceed to Callao, from Australia, where she was then bound, and from thence with all
convenient dispatch to the Chincha Islands, to take in her
cargo of guano. She was to be at Callao ready to load in the
course of January and February, 1855, or sooner, and ninety
running days were allowed for loading. After completing her
loading, she was to proceed direct to Hampton Roads, her
place of destination, to receive orders from the defendants or
their agents to discharge at any safe port not south of Hampton Roads or north of Cape Ann. Freight was to be paid at
the rate of twenty-five dollars per ton, custom-house weight,
and the ship was to 'have the benefit of any advance in the
guano freights made by the charterers in the United States
before she finished loading at the islands.
She sailed from New York the first of May, 1854, with a
full cargo on owners' account, which she discharged at Australia, and sailed thence, in pursuance of her charter, to Callao
and the Chincha Islands. Her cargo of guano was loaded between the first day of January and the ninth day of March,
1855, and on the following day she sailed for Callao, and
thence to her place of destination for orders. On her arrival
at Hampton Roads, she received orders to go to Baltimore,
which she accordingly did, and was there unloaded between the
first and the twenty-fifth day of July, 1855, having brought
home.fourteen hundred and fifty-nine tons of guano. Some
correspondence, however, had taken place between the parties
before the Shirley arrived. On the eighth day of June, 1855,
the plaintiffs wrote to the defendants, referring to that clause
in the charter providing for an advance; and suggesting that
they had been induced to make the charter at the solicitation
of their agents, upon the assurance that they should receive
every advantage from any rise in freight, and expressing their
astonishment at learning that they did not intend to pay more
than at the rate of twenty-five dollars per ton, and signifying
at the same time their willingness to listen to any fair proposition the defendants had to make. To that letter the defend-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

153

Barre&~ et al. v. Sikbee et aZ.

ants replied, under date of the eleventh of June, 1855, to the
effect that the guano freights had remained at the same rates
since the Shirley was chartered, admitting, however, that they
had since taken up certain vessels with the privilege of using
them outwai Is, and saying that they had done so in several
instances, and that in such cases they had allowed the vessels
a compensation for that use, but that such additional compensation had nothing to do with the rates of guano, as would
appear by referring to those charters. Other correspondence
took place between the parties, or their counsel, which it is
not necessary to notice at the present time. After the cargo'
of the.Shirley was discharged, the defendants rendered an account of the voyage.to the plaintifs, showing a balance in their
favor of twenty-one thousand nine hundred and forty-three
dollars and eighty-nine cents, calculating the freight at twenty-five dollars per ton, without any allowance for a rise under
the advance clause of the charter, which was not satisfactory
to the plaintiffs. They claimed a further sum under the advance clause, equal to five dollars per ton upon the whole
freight brought home. Seven other vessels were chartered -by
the defendants between the eleventh day 6f April and the
twenty-seventh day of May, 1854, for the transportation of
guano from the Chmcha Islands to the United States. All of
those charters were introduced by the plaintifs, subject to objection, and they are substantially the same with that of the
Shirley, and- contain a similar clause, giving the vessels the
benefit of a subsequent rise in the guano freights. On the
first day of June, 1854, after these charters were executed, the
defendants wrote to their agents in New York and Boston,
enclosing a pro forna charter-party for vessels out and home,
and authorized and instructed them to take up as many vessels as they could under such charters, without allowing the
.least deviation from its terms, and directing them in the same
communications to keep former rates, without benefit- of advance, for home charters. It recites that-the vessel taken upshall proceed to Callao, from a port in the Indian or Pacific
oceans, "where she is at present bound," and thence with all
eonvenient dispatch to the Chincha Islands to take in her car-

SUPREME COURT.
Barre a et a.
v. Sis ee et al.

go, and that the vessel shall be ready to load in the course of
January, 1855, and shall thence proceed to Hampton Roads for
orders and to discharge, as is provided in the charter of the
Shirley Freight was to be paid on charters conforming to
those instructions at the rate of twenty-five dollars per ton,
custom-house weight, and the charters were to contain the following stipulation.
"It is further agreed, that within one week from the date
hereof, the owners of the vessel may, if they see fit, elect to
dispatch her direct to Callao and the Chincha Islands, to load,
as hereinbefore provided, and in case the owners shall so elect,
the charterers shall be entitled to all her earnings for such outward voyage, and shall further have the privilege of shipping
by her such outward cargo, not exceeding two hundred tons,
as they may desire, provided they shall do so within ten days
after the owners shall have announced their election. The
charterers, on the arrival of the Vessel at the home port, to pay,
in full satisfaction for such earnings and privilege, and of
all outward freight, such gross sum as shall be equivalent to
five dollars per ton on the return cargo delivered."
Twenty-five vessels were subsequently taken up under charter-parties substantially conforming to that stipulation, all bearing. date prior to the thirtieth day of July following that instruction. Sixteen were negotiated by the agents of the
defendants residing in New York, five by the defendants themselves, and the remaining four by their agents in Boston. In
many of these charters, the clause prescribing the port from
which the vessel was to proceed to Callao, as contained in
the pro forma charter-party, was omitted, and another substituted in its place, as "from where she was bound," or "from
Amsterdam, where bound," or from New York direct to Callao.
These deviations, however, from the form of a charter furnished by the defendants must have been approved by them,
as all the charters subsequently negotiated by their agents were
duly transmitted to Baltimore, and received their signatures,
before they went into operation. Some other deviations from
the pro forma charter-party, of minor importance, were introduced into one or more of these charters, wi ich it is not im-

DEGEM1BER TERM, 1858.

155

Barreda d a7. v. Szszee d al.

portant to notice in this investigtion, as they all contained
the stipulation above mentioned, which is the principal subject
of controversy in this suit. Under that stipulation, the owner
might elect, within a week from the date of the charter-party,
to dispatch the vessel direct to Callao and the Chmcha Islands;
and in that event, the charterers had the privilege to ship the
outward cargo for their own benefit, not exceeding two hundred tons, provided they elected so to do within ten days after
the owner announced his decision to send the vessel direct;
and in case the owner so elected and sent the vessel, no matter
whether the charterers freighted her out or not, the owner was
entitled in all events to demand five dollars per ton on the return
cargo of guano, in addition to the twenty-five dollars agreed to
be paid in the general clause of the charter-party already stated.
Whether the vessel carried out much or little freight, or
none at all, was entirely immaterial to the owner, so far as
respected the earnings of the vessel, as the additional compensation in any event was to be estimated and ascertained, not
upon the outward freight, but upon the return cargo, and it
made no difference in respect to time, as the owner contracted
that the vessel, whether freighted or not, should be at Callao
ready to load in the course of January, under the penalty of
twelve thousand dollars.
That stipulation, whatever might have been its object, resulted in no material pecuniary advantage to the defendants.
They did not furmsh any outward cargo, -except in a single
instance, and then only to a small amount, consisting of seven
or eight boxes of cigars. In another instance, they offered to
ship two iron boilers for Callao, but the owners refused to take
them as deck load, alleging that it would be dangerous, and
the dispute led to a cancellation of the contract by mutual consent. Except in those two cases, the defendants never attempted to avail themselves of the benefits secured by that
provision, either by furnishing the freight directly or by advertising the vessels. Their counsel insist that the additional
compensation was paid for the privilege thus secured, and that
it makes no difference whether it was exercised or not, inasmuch as they had the right to avail themselves of it if they saw

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda et al. v. Silsbee et al.

fit, and found it to be for their advantage. All or nearly all
of the vessels proceeded directly from the United States, carrying out no freight for the defendants, and on their return
were paid the additional five dollars for every ton of guano
brought home. How much that additional compensation
amounted to does not appear, nor are there any data in the record from which it can be definitely ascertained. According to
the charter of the Shirley, she was a ship of nine hundred and
ten tons burden, and it appears that she brought home fourteen hundred and fifty-nine tons of guano, reckoned at customhouse weight. Eleven of the charters of the other vessels give
their tonnage, showing that their measurement, on an average.
is a fraction more than eight hundred tons. Assuming that
the average of the eleven, whose tonnage is given, is the true
average of the whole number chartered containing that provision, and that each brought home cargo in proportion to the
Shirley, it would show that the amount of the additional compensation allowed to those vessels under that clause could not
have been much less than one hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Whatever the sum was, whether more or less than the
amount supposed, it must be assumed, on the theory of the
defendants, that it was allowed and paid by the charterers, in
consideration of the privilege secured to load the vessels outward for their own benefit, which privilege the case shows they
never exercised to an extent to enable them to realize therefrom more than the sum of fifty dollars. It was insisted by
the plaintiffs in .the court-below that this stipulation was inserted in those charters, as a device to avoid the effect of the
advance clause in the charter of the Shitley and other vessels,
which had gone out under similar charters, and that the real
contract was one to give thirty dollars per ton for the transportation of the guano to the United States, and consequently
showed that the charterers, within the period specified, had
made an advance in the guano freights equal.to the amount of
such additional compensation.
They also offered parol proof in support of their view of
these transactions, which was received by the court, subject
to objection.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

157

Barre& et al. v. SzWee et a.

Such brief portions only of the testimony as are necessary
to a proper understan ding of the legal questions to be decided
will here be reproduced.
In respect to the vessels whose charters required that they
should proceed from some port in the Indian or Pacific ocean,
the plaintiffs proved that the vessels proceeded direct to Callao,
and that the owners, at the time the charters were made, did
not and had not contemplated any such indirect voyage, and
elected, in the act of executing the charters, to send the vessels direct, and, in some instances, were told immediately, by
the agents of the defendants, who negotiated the charters, that
they might prcceed at once, as there was no outward cargo
for them. Those charters from which the above clause had
been stricken out still contained the stipulation in question,
allowing the election to the owners as to the course of the
voyage, and in such cases, the vessels went out in ballast
direct to Callao, and on their return from the Ohincha Islands with a cargp of guano were paid the additional com1pensation.
Another class of testimony was
to the effect that the agents
of the defendants in New York and Boston offered thirty dollars per ton for the charter of the vessels to go .direct, and,
after the offers were accepted by the owners, that the charters
were drawn up., containing this stipulation, and that the owners, when the charters were presented for execution, inquired
why they were so drawn, -and were told that it was because
they had made charter-parties at twenty-five dollars per ton,
and consequently did-not wish that these charters should show
more than that sum, and in one instance, the .answer to the
inquiry was, that they did not wish these charters to c inflict
with former charter-parties, which .provided for a freight of
twenty-five dollars per ton, with the benefit of a rise. These
declarations of the agents of the defendants were proved by
the owners of the vessels who -made the charters. It was
proved by the defendants that their agents never had any
authority in respect to such charters, except what was conferred by the letters of instruction of the first of June, 1854,
and those agents, upon being called as witnesses, denied that

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda e al. v. Silsbm et 1.

they had ever made the declarations ascribed to them by the
witnesses called by the plaintiffs.
Further explanatory and rebutting testimony was introduced by the defendants, but, as it does not give rise to any
legal question for the consideration of the court, it is omitted.
After the testimony was concluded, the counsel of the defendants requested the court to exclude from the consideration
of the jury all the declarations and statements of those agents
given in evidence by the plaintiffs, respecting the terms, conditions, or purposes, of the charter-parties negotiated by them,
varying from the authority and powers conferred on them by
their written instructions, which the court refused to do, so
far as regarded the declarations and statements made at the
time the charters were executed, and ruled and determined
that all such declarations and statements were admissible and
competent evidence. To which refusal and ruling the defendants excepted, and their exception was allowed by the
court.
Prayers for instruction were then made by both partiesfirst by the plaintiffs, and then by the defendants. Those presented by the defendants were made the subject of exception.
They are eight in number, including the one embraced in the
third bill of exceptions, but inasmuch as we have come to the
conclusion that the instructions given by the court cover the
whole controversy between the parties, they will not be specifically examined, and for the further reason, that their separate consideration would be tedious and unprofitable.
The instructions given by the court are to the effect that.
in addition to the balance proved'on the account rendered.
"the plaintiffs are entitled to recover such further sum, if.any,
as the jury may find to have been the advance on the freights
agreed to be paid by the defendants to any one for bringing
guano from the Chincha Islands t6 the-United States in charters executed here between the eleventh -day of April, 1854,
and the day the jury shall find the Shirley finished loading at
the Chincha Islands.
2. "That in ascertaining whether any contract for advanced
freight was made, the jury are not confined to the considera-

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

159

Barreda et al; v. SiZsbee et a.

tion alone of the charter-parties executed after the eleventh
day of April, 1854, but are to consider them in connection
with all the evidence in the case, and if they find that the
real contract, in some one or more of the charter-parties, was
a contract to bring guano here and deliver it at thirty dollars
per ton, and that the five-dollar clause was.added to avoid any
responsibility under the advance clause in the -charter of the
Shirley, then the five dollars advance is an advance freight,
within the meaning of the first instruction."
'Under these instructions, the j ury returned a verdict for the
plaintiffs in the sum of thirty thousand nine hundred and
forty-four dollars and sixty-two cents. Whereupon, the defendants brought -a writ of error to this :ourt.
1. They now insist, among other things, to the effect that
the advance clause in the charter-party of the Shirley must-be
interpreted to refer only to homeward voyages from the Chincha Islands to the United States.
2. That the charter-parties introduced by the plaintiffs to
show an advance in the guano freights are on their face for
voyages of a different character from that of the Shirley, and
afforded no evidence to maintain the action.
3. That the parol evidence, introduced by the plaintiffs was
not admissible, and should'have been rejected.
4. That even if the parol evidence were admissible, and it
were-competent to treat the charters under consideration as
stipulations for a round voyage out and home, they would still
furnmish no evidence of an advance in the guano freights over
the charter of the Shirley, unless it were shown that the earnings of the Shirley out, and the twenty-five dollars per ton
home, were less than the thirty dollars per ton stipulated to
be paid under that construction of these charters.
I. All of these propositions except one involve, directly or
indirectly, the. construction of the advance clause in the charter of the Shirley Under that clause, the Shirley was to have
the benefit of any advance in the guano freights made by the
charterers in the United States, before she finished 'loading at
the islands. She was chartered. on the eleventh day of April,
1854, and flished loading on the eighth"day of March, 1855,

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda e al. v. &Zsbee et al.

and consequently her owners were entitled, by the express
words of the contract, to claim the benefit of any advance
in such freights made by the defendants in the United States
between those dates.
Such an advance in guano freights could only be made by
the defendants, as they were the only persons in the United
States who were authorized by their Government to contract
for its trans~portation. They could raise the price of transportation or reduce it, if the owners of vessels would accept their
terms, and if not, they'could refuse to contract; and if no contracts for -an advance were made by them within the period
specified in the charter of the Shirley, then her owners would
have no claim for auclitional compensation. Their right to
such compensation was not referred to the state of the market,
but to the subsequent contracts made by the defendants for the
transportation of guano from the Chincha Islands to the United
States. Freights in general might rise ever so much, and it
would not benefit the plaintiffs unless the defendants yielded
to its influence, and made contracts to give higher rates for
the transportation of guano. They might engage in any other
branch of commerce, and give what rates of freight they pleased,
and yet if they did not make any advance in the guano freights
in the United States, it would not confer any benefit upon the
plaintiffs. Any other advance in freights, however great and
by whomsoever made, were not to be taken into account in,
determining the question whether the plaintiffs were entitled
to additional compensation. In order to avail the plaintiffs in
that 'behalf, it must be an advance made by the defendants,
and one paid, or agreed to be paid, as the price for the transportation of guano to the United States, and it must appear
that the contract for such payment was made within the period
specified in that-clause of the charter of the Shirley Looking, therefore, to the plain import of the language of the parties, and applying that language to the subject-matter of the
contract, as described in the contract itself, it is clear that the
word "freight," as qualified by the word "guano," was used
in a special sense, and refers solely to the price paid, or agreed
to be paid, by the defendants, within-the prescribed time for

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

161

Barreda dt al. v. Silsb.ee et al.

the transportation of guano from the Chimcha Islands to the
United States. According to the terms of the contract, the
parties agreed that the subsequent transactions of the defendants in the same trade should furnish and constitute the standard or criterion by which their rights and duties towards each
other growing out of that clause in the charter-party should
be ascertained and determined. Their agreement was to the
effect that the plaintiffs contracted uncouditionally to perform
the service mentioned, for which they were in all events to
receive the sum specified in the general clause of the charterparty; and in case the defendants paid or cantracted to pay
other persons a greater sum for the like service before the
Shirley finished loading, then the plaintiffs were entitled to an
additional compensation under this special clause, equal to
the excess so paid or contracted to be paid to such other parties. They chartered their vessel early in the season, as appears from the date of the charter-party, and it may fairly be
inferred from the nature of the transaction and the surrounding circumstances, independently of the correspondence, that
some .such stipulation was regarded as necessary to protect
their. interests in the contingency of a rise in freights as the
season advanced. Such contingent agreements are of frequent
occurrence between merchants and ship-owners, and are entitled to receivPe a liberal interpretation, as they are- in furtherance of trade and equal justice between the parties. They are,
perhaps, more frequently based upon the future state of the
miarkets, and not, as li this case, upon the transactions of the
merchant i" the particular trade. Parties, however, have the
right-to select what criterion they please, and where their contracts are fairly made, they must receive a reasonable construction, so as to carry their intention into effect, and in general
that intention must be gathered from the language employed,
the surrounding circumstances, and the subject-matter. Our
attention has been drawn to the case of Gether v. Capper, (80
Eng. C. L., 695,) as asserting a contrary doctrine. On a careful examination of the facts of that case, and the Opinions of
the judges, we have come to the conclusion that it is not opposed to the views here expressed. It was an action for freight
VOL. XXI.

1-1

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda et al. v. Silsbee e al.

upon a charter-party Under the general clause, a given rate
of freight was to be paid in all events, as in this case, and it
contained a special clause, which stipulated that the plaintiff
"was to receive the highest freight which he could prove to
have been paid for ships on the same voyage, when the vessel
passed Elsinore." At the trial, the plaintiff was unable to prove
that any other vessel had made the voyage referred to in the
charter-party

Failing in that attempt, he then offered proof

that a higher rate had been paid for vessels about that time
from Lundswall, or an adjacent port, to London, which is a
very different voyage. Whereupon a verdict was taken for
the plaintiff; reserving leave to the defendant to move to enter
a verdict in his favor, or to reduce the damages, as the court
should think fit. A rule to show cause was accordingly granted,
and after argument it was made absolute. Separate opinions
were given on the occasion by the judges, to the effect that the
owner could not entitle himself to the additional compensation
by proving that other vessels had been chartered at higher
rates from Lundswall -to London, that being a different voyage,
and not within the fair intendment of the charter-party Every
one of the judges present placed the decision expressly upon
the words of the charter-party, and the failure of the plaintiff
to bring his case within their intendment. His right to additional compensation was made to depend, by the express words
of the contract, upon his being able to prove that other vessels
at the time specified received or were to receive higher rates
of freight for the same voyage. He failed to exhibit the proof,
and, of course, 'was not entitled to recover. His contract prescribed the criterion by which his claim to additional compensation was to be ascertained\ and determined, and he had no
right to go out of the contract and select a new standard, to
which the other contracting party had not consented. It is
far otherwise with the plaintiffs in the case under consideration. Their case rests upon somewhat different grounds. They
have proved the state of facts on which their right to recover
depends. According to the verdict of the jury, and the instructions of the court, their case is brought within the legal
intendment of the contract, leaving nothing for the considera-

DECEMBMER TERM, 1858.
Barreda et d. v. Sii sbee d aZ

tion of this court, except, the legal questions presented in the
bills of exception. Their ship was to have the benefit 6f any
advance in the guano freight. made by the charterers in the
United States before she finished loading. They contracted to
bring guano from the Chincha Islands to the United States for
a given rate per ton, and the defendants stipulated to pay that
rate, and if they paid or contracted to pay other vessels a higher
rate before the Shirley finished loading, then they agreed to
give the plaintiffs an additional compensation equal to that excess, and for that excess of rate per ton the plaintiffs were
entitled to recover, together with tte balance of the account
rendered, which was admitted to be correct by the defendants.
These suggestions lead necessarily to the conclusion that there
is no error in the charge of the Circuit Court, so far as respects
the construction of the contract, as the instruction in that particular was.in strict conformity to the views here expressed.
It was to the effect that if the jury found that the defendants
had agreed to pay others more than twenty-five dollars per ton
for bringing guano from the Chincha Islands to the United
States under charter-parties executed here between the dates
before .mentioned, then they were authorized to find a verdict
in favor of the plaintiffs for that excess. All of the charters
relied on by the plaintif s as tending to show that such was the
fact, were substantially of the same character, so that if one
had that tendency, then all had, and that was conceded in the
argument, and must have been so understood by the jury
II. In the next place, it is insisted that the declarations and
statements of the agents of the defendants, made at the time
those charters were executed, were improperly admitted as
evidence, and two grounds are assumed in supuort of the
proposition. First, that they were made without. authority,
and therefore were not admissible to affect the interests of the
defendants, and, secondly, that they were admitted in -violation of the well-known rule that parol evidence is not admissible to explain, vary, or contradict, a written instrument. All
such declarations and -statements made .subsequently to the
execution. of-the charters were properly ruled outand excluded
from the consideration of the jury.

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda et al. v. Silsbee et al.

1. Some brief reference to the facts of the case becomes
necessary, in order to test the correctness of the first ground
assumed under this last proposition. Full authority had been
conferred upon those agents to negotiate for the vessels whose
charters were introduced by the plaintift. Those declarations
and statements were made by their agents in respect to the
subject-matter of the negotiation, and at the time the charters were presented to the owners of the vessels for execution.
After they were executed by the owners, they were forwarded
fo the defendants and received their signatures, and every assurance given by the agents to the owners of the vessels was
subsequently made good by the defendants. They were told
there was no outward cargo for them, and that they might proceed immediately, and they were allowed to do so, without
objection or remonstrance. The vessels carried out no freight,
and, on their return, the owners were paid thirty dollars per ton
on the return cargo, without hesitation or complaint. Accornpanying those explanations were others to the effect that the
stipulation in question had been inserted in the charters, so
that they might not conflict with those previously-nade pro
viding for a rise in freight, and the circumstances fail to dis
close any other substantial purpose for which it was done.
Parties do not usually contract heavy pecuniary obligations
without some object in view, and as no substantial one is disclosed, except the one assigned by the plaintiffs, it is impossible-to say, as matter of law, that the charters in question and
the surrounding circumstances had no tendency to maintain
the issue for the plaintiffs. Where the fact of agency has
been proved, says Mr. Starkie, either expressly or presumptively, the act of the agent, co-extensive with the 4uthorty, is
the act of the principal, whose mere instrument he is, and
then, whatever the agent says, within the scope of his authority, the principal says, and evidence may be given of such acts
and declarations, as if they had been actually done and made
by the principal himself. That principle was directly sanctioned by this court in United States v. Gooding, 12 Wheat.,
470, where the views of the author, as alove quoted, were
cited and approved (2 Star. Ev., 45.) Whatever the agent

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
.Barredae al v. S2sbwe et al.

does in the lawful prosecution of the business intrusted to him
by the principal, is the act of the principal, and there, says
Mr. Greenleaf, his representations, declarations, and admissions, respecting the subject-matter, will also bind him, if
made at the same time, and constituting a part of the res
geslae, and they are of the nature of original evidence, and not
hearsay, and Judge Story, m his valuable Treatise on the Law
of Agency, maintains the same doctrine. (1 Greenl. Ev., 85,
113 Story on Ag., see. 134.) Acts and declarations of an
agent are admissible under such circumstances, upon the
ground that, whatever an agent does or says in reference to
the business in which he is at the time employed, and within
the scope of his authority, is done or said by the principal,
and consequently may-be proved in like mainer as if the evidence applied personally to the principal. (American Fur Co.
v. The United States, 2 Pet., 864.) On the whole case, we are
of the opinion that the evidence of original authority in the
agents was sufficient to warrant the court in submitting their
.declarations -and statements to the jury
In the same connection it was also denied at the argument
that there is any sufficient evidence in the case to show that
the agents of the defendants had any authority to make deviations from the proforma charter-party furnished to them on the
first day.of June, 1854. A recurrence to the evidence, however,
will show that the suggestions are not well founded. They
commenced negotiating for vessels under those instructions
shortly after they were received, and, continued the business
till nearly the close of July All the charters,: after they were
executed by the owners, were forwarded to the defendants, and
received their signatures. One bears date as early as the fifth
day of June, and others as late as the twenty-ninth day of July,
showing that they were approved as they were forwarded, and
at different times. These facts present strong presumptive evidence of authority, fully warranting the court in submitting
the question to the jury
2. The second ground assumed by the defendants, under
this proposition, is, that the declayations and statements of
their agents ought to have been excluded, for the reason that

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda e al. v. Silsbee et al.

parol evidence is not admissible to explain, vary, or contradict, a written contract. That principle, as a general rule applicable to parties and privies, and their -representatives, and
those claiming under them, is undeniable, and is not disputed
by the counsel of the plaintiffs. They contended, however,
in the court below, and still insist, that the right of the plaintiffs to demand additional compensation in this case was made
to depend, by the express words of the contract, upon the subsequent transactions of the defendants in the same trade, and
ihat the stipulation in the subsequent charters is so framed
that it covers up and conceals the real nature of the contracts
between the parties. They went farther in the court below,
and still insist that the real contract was one to pay thirty dollars per ton to bring guano from the Chincha Islands to the
United States, and that the stipulation was framed in the form
in which it appears, graduating five dollars on the outward
and twenty-five -dollars on the home voyage, for the express
purpose of relieving the defendants from the responsibility
which they had incurred to the plaintiffs, under the charter of
the Shirley, and the jury have found all these alleged facts in
favor of the plaintiffs. Whether the jury were warranted in
so finding or not, is not a.question for an appellate tribunal.
That question cannot be re-examined by this court. For the
purposes of any examination of the case which it is competent
for this court to make under the Constitution of the United
States and the laws of Congress, it must be assumed that the
facts of the case have been correctly found by the jury Repeated decisions of this court have affirmed the doctrine, which
is but a repetition of the constitutional provision upon the
subject, that no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examinable in any court of the United States than according to
the rules of the common law; and it is well known that the only
modes known to the common law of re-examining the facts of a
case, after tney have been found by ajury, are the granting of a
new trial by the court where the issue was tried, or to which
the record was properly returnable,- or by the award of a venire
facizs de novo by an appellate court, for some error of law which
intervened in the proceedings

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

16T

Barredad aL v. Siz7ee et a.

Parsons v.Bedford et al., 3 Pet., 447.
United States v. King et al., 7 How., 845.
Richardson v. Doane, 3 Dall., 102.
United States v. Eliason, 16 Pet., 301.
Phillips v. Preston, 5 How., 289.
Whether the evidence, when offered, is admissible, is a question for the court, but when admitted, the question whether
it is sufficient or not is for the jury, and it is their province to
draw from it all sucl inferences and conclusions as it conduces
to prove, and which, in their judgment, it does prove, and
their finding is conclusive, unless a new trial is awarded by
the.court in which the case is tried, or in the- appellate tribunal, for some error of law Guided by these principles, .it
mpst be assumed, in the further examination of this question,
that'th* facts are as they have been found to be by the jury
It then appears that the real -contract in these charters was one
to pay thirty dollars per.ton for bringing guano from the:Chincha Islands to the Unit dK States, and that the stipulation in
question was inserted in-the chafters to cover up and conceal
the real nature of the contract, in order to enable the defendants'to relieve themselves from the responsibility which theyhad incurred ir.their previous contract with the plaintiffs, and
the question is, whether the parol evidence was properly admitted to prove those facts. When the plaintiffs offered to
prove those -facts in the court below, 'the question was then
presented to the Circuit Court precisely as it is here stated.
Evidence, when offered at the trial, must be assumed to exist,
and to betrue, for the purpose of determining the question of
its admissibility. Proof, such as was offered and received in
this case, could only be rejected upon' one of two groundsfirst, that the evidence of the facts was not admissible, and,
secondly, that- if the facts -were proved, they would have no
tendency to maintain the action. That they would maintain
the action if proved, no one can doubt, so that the only ques
tion is, whether they were adfissible.
One further explanation is necessary, in order topresent the
question in its true light. It is not pretended that the parol
evidence conflicts in any manner with -the written conti act on

SUPREME COURT.
Barreda et al.v. Silsbee et al.

which-the suit was brought. On the contrary, the objection
is directed solely to its effect upon the charter-parties subsequently executed by the defendants with the owners of the
other vessels. Those charters were introduced by the plaintiffs as evidence in the cause, to show their right to recover.
They also relied on the circumstances attending the transactions, and the declarations and statements of the agents who
negotiated them, and the subsequent conduct of the defendants in respect -to the same subject-matter. At the trial, the
charters were submitted to the jury as evidence, and the jury
were told, in effect, that they were not confined to the charters
-alone, but were at liberty to consider them in connection with
all the other evidence in the case, in order to ascertain what
the real contracts were between those parties.
Where the effect of a written agreement collaterally introduced as evidence, as in this case, depends, not merely on the
construction and meaning of the instrument, but upon extriasic facts and circumstances, the inferences of fact to be drawn
from it must be left to-the jury It was so held by this court
in Etting v. The Bank of the Unitbd States, 11 Wheat., 75, and
we think the principle is correct. In that case, the testimony
congisted of various communications and reports made to the
baik, of their own transactions, and of the admissions of the
p0arties or their agents, and it was insisted, on the part of
the bank, that the jury were not at liberty to draw inferences of fact from the written evidence, to which 'objection, Marshall, Ch. Jus., replied, that "were the fact as
alleged, 'and were it true that all the testimony is in writing,
the consequence drawn from it cannot be admitted." Other
cases have been decided by this court, applying the same doctrine as in Tasigi v. Brown, 17 How., 182. That was an action
brought to recover damages against the defendant for a false
representation respecting the pecuniary standing of a third
party, whereby the plaintiff had been induced to sell goods,
and had incurred loss. Letters were introduced, and facts and
circumstances connected -with them proved, and this court
held that it was for the jury to say, after examining the letters
in connection -with the facts and circumstances, whether they

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.
Barredza et a. v. Sibee d a7.

were calculated to inspire, and did inspire, a false confidence
in the pecumary responsibility of the party, to which the defendant knew he was not entitled.
Another wew of the question is also very properly invoked
by the plaintiffs. Their claim to additional compensation, by
the express words of the- contract, was made to depend upon
their being able-to exhibit proof that the defendants had paid
other parties a higher rate than twenty-five dollars per ton for
the same service. Oral proof to that effect, if credible,.was as
good as written. They were at liberty to rely vpon the one or
the other, or upon both combined, as circumstances.might indicate it to be for their interest or convenience. Beyond question they might introduce those charters for that purpose, if
they saw fit; or, if they had the means, and preferred to do so,
they might prove their case by other evidence, and it cannot
be maintained that their right to do so was in any manner
impaired after, those charters were introduced. They were
not parties to-those contracts, nor did they in any legal sense
claim under them. Their rights being made to depend upon
the subsequent transactions of the defendants with third parties, it was clearly proper to admit proof to show what those
transactions were.
Several courts and text writers have stated the principle
much broader than it is here laid down. The rule excluding
parol proof in sucl cases, says Mr. Greenleaf, cannot affect
third persons; who' if it were otherwise, might.be prejudiced
by things recited in the writings contrary to the truth, through
the ignorance, carelessness, or fraud, of the parties, and who
therefore ought not to be precluded from proving the truth,
however contradictory to the written instruments of others. In
Xrider v. Lafferty, (1 Whar., 314,) it is held, that the rule is
applicable only in suits between parties to the agreement, and
their representatives and those claiming under them, and not
to strangers. It is also held in England, in several cases, that
the rule is not applicable to strangers. (King v. Inhabitants
of Cheadle, 3 Barn. and Ad., 83.3, 2 Taylor's Ev., see. 827, and
cases cited, Wilson v. Hart, 7 Taun., 294; Overseers of Berlin
v. Nqorwich; 10 John., 229; Poth on Obi., by Evans, n. 766, 2

SUPREME COURT.
Uniled Sates v. Sutfer.

.Cow and H.,-notes, 354, 368, Reynolds v. Magness, 2 Ired.,
26, 1 Greenl. Ev., sec. 279.)
Parol testimony is always admissible in matters of contract,
to show fraud, notwithstanding its effect may be to contradict
what is in writing. That priniiple is too well established and
too generally acknowledged to require any confirmation. Parties have the rightto make their own contracts, and, in general, when they are satisfied, that is sufficient, and others have
no right to cbmplain. Cases, however, occasionally arise,
where a contract, though bona fide between those who made it,
may operate as a fraud upon third parties, and in this case,
assuming the facts to be as they have been found by the jury,
and as the evidence tends to prove, that the stipulation in question was inserted in those charters for the purpose of enabling
the defendants, by that device, to avoid their responsibility to
the plaintiffs, whether the owners of the vessels knew the purpose or not, the act so far partakes of the nature of a fraud
between the parties to this suit as to authorize the introduction
of parol evidence, to show what the truth was in regard to
those transactions.
For these reasons, we are of the opinion that the instruclions given by the Circuit Court were correct, and that there
is no error in the record.
The decree of the Circuit Court therefore is affirmed, with
costs.
Mr. Justice WAYNE, Mr. Justice CATRON, and Mr. Justice GRIER, dissented.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. 'JOHN A. SUTTER.
The evidence is satisfactory to this court, that Alvarado, the Governor of Califorma, granted a tract of land, to the extent of eleven leagues, to John A. Sutter,
in 1841.
Although the original grant has not been produced, yet there is sufficient proof
that it once existed, and was destroyed by fire. .A draught of the grant, pre
pared by the Governor, is found in the archives, and the grant was recorded
in the county registry of deeds, and this, together with the other evidence in

