SUPREME COURT.
Harlin v. Ikmsen.

Kentucky by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of
the judiciary act.
A motion was made to dismiss the writ, upon the ground
stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of error in this case was issued on the 27th day of
December last, and made returnable on the third Monday in
January, aad- the defendant in error cited to appear on that
day.
It has already been decided at the present term, in the case
of Insurance Co. of the Valley of Virginia v. Mordecai, that
such a writ of error cannot be supported, and does not bring
the case before the court.
A motion has been made, on behalf of the plaintiff in error,
to remand the case to the court below, with leave to amend
the writ of error and citation. But, as the transcript stands,
there is no case before us in which we can exercise a power of
amendment. We-can do nothing more than dismiss it for
want of jurisdiction.
But if the plaintiff desires it, he may, in order to save expense, withdraw the transcript, and use it in connection with
the proper and legal process to bring the case here; and if
withdrawn, a receipt for it must be left with the clerk.
But as it now. stands, it must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

FRANCIS

MARTIN,

A-DMINISTRATOR

OF DENNIS

T.

DONOVAN,

DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CHRISTIAN IM1HSEN.
In Pennsylvania, where a transfer of certain accounts was made, the assignes

had only an equitable interest, and could not sue in his own name. But when
the suit was brought in Louisiana, where there is no distinction between a legal
and equitable title, he.could maintain the suit in his own name, and the assignment svas-g-ood evidence.
An exceiption taken'to the refusal of a judge to sign a bill of exceptions, -anderthe
circumstances of this case, requires no further notice.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858

895

Martin v:!hmsen.
The ruling of the court below, viz: that prescription was interrupted by a litiga
tion which was pending between the parties shortly before the present suit was
instituted, was, under the circumstances of the case, correct.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The case is explained in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Gillet for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Benjamin for the defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Donovan was defendant below in an action for a balance of
accounts claimed as due by him to the firm of Owen & Ihnisen.
This claim had been transferred by that firm to one Frederic
Lorenz, and, after his death, transferred to Ihmsen, the plaintiff below.
The cause was tried, by consent of parties, without the intervention of a jury; consequently, the exceptions to the admission of testimony Are irregular, and need not be particularly noticed. Besides, we can see no good ground of objection
to the evidence of confessions and admissions of a party, consisting of accounts rendered in a former controversy on the
same subject, before arbitrators. The award itself was not received by the court as evidence of the amount of debt due, because it had been set aside, for some irregularity.
The objections to the admission of the paper showing the
transfers of the account were equally without foundation. By
the law of Pennsylvania, where these transfers were made,
Ihmsen would have an equitable interest in the account; but
in that State the mere equitable assignee of an account would
not sue in his own name, such chose in action not being assignable at common law. There the suit would have been brought
in the name of Owen & Ihmsen, the original creditors, for the
use of Lorenz, Ihmsen, or any other person holding the equitable right to the. account. But in Louisiana, where, by the
rule of the civil law, tE, re is no such distinction between the
legal and equitable title, Thmsen," as equitable owner, could

SUPREME COURT.
Harlin v. Imen.

sustain the suit in his own name, and the assignments admitted to prove his title were properly received.
This case was tried at April term, 1856. The president
judge has reported his finding of the facts, and his judgment
thereon. Some six months afterward, the defendants below
made up a statement of facts, (to which the plaintiff refused
his assent,) and presented it to the district judge, and demanded that he should seal a bill df exceptions. This the judge
properly refused to do, but signed a bill of exceptions taken
to his decision refusing to sign one. This novelty in practice
requires no further notice.
The only questioh of law arising on the facts of this case as
reported by the court was on the plea of prescription. On
this point, the court gave their opinion as follows:
"Without considering the questions whether the account in
this case is an open account, within the meaning of the statute
of Louisiana, or whether the statute operates upon demands
that were subsisting at its date, our conclusion is, that the proceedings in the. fourth District Court, relative to the award,
were an interruption of that presciription. There was a suit
pending between the parties, the present defendant being the
plaintiff, which embraced a portion of the matter of this controversy. It was competent to the defendants, by instituting a
demand in reconvention, to bring up the whole of the controversy for a settlement in that suit; and if that had been done,
a legal interruption would have resulted within the 3484th,
8485th sections of the civil code. (Dreggs v. Morgan, 10 Rob.,
120,) - This was not formally done on the record, but the parties did, by consent, that which we are bound to c6nsider as
having an equivalent value.
"They came to an agreement that arbitrators selected by
them fihould have the power to decide who was the creditor
of the contesting parties, to settle finally (' without appeal') the
amount due on either part, and that the attorney of either
party might move for judgment on this award. It is clear, that
had the -rbitrators proeeeded regularly, and a judgment been
rendered upon it, that no exception could have been taken to
the condit'on of the pleadings in the pending suit, or that there

897

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Combs y. Hodge d aL.

nad not-been a demand in reconvention. The consent in the
submission agreement implied a waiver of all pleadings of that
nature, and was a. release of all errors in the preliminary stages
of the suit. Donovan appeared in the District Court, and successfully resisted a motion, for judgment upon the award rendered. But the code does not require that a suit should be
successfully prosecuted to operate as an interruption of prescription. (Trop. dePres., see. 561; Dunn v. Kinney, 11 Rob.,
247; Baden v. Baden, 4 Ann., 468.")
We see no error in this statement of the law, and consequently affirm the-judgment with costs.

LESLIE

COMBS,

COMPLAINANT

AND APPELLANT,

0.

JOHN I.

HODGE, ADMINISTRATOR OF AXNDREW HODGE, DECEASED,

LIAm

WIr-

L. HODGE, AND JAMES Lov.

The pleadings in another suit, where the parties wpre different,' and the petition
and answer signed by counsel, cannot be resorted to for admissions of the respective parties.
Where certificates of the public debt of Texas were transferable only by the
owner, or his legal representative or attorney,'and there is no sufficient evidence of the existence of a power of attorney, a mere endorsement in blankby
the owner is not sufficient to justify a purchaser in drawing a conclusion that
I
the holder is entitled to sell or discount it.
The difference between this and negotiable instruments explained, and the authorities examined.
But as the circumstances attending the purchase are not well disclosed in the
record, the court will remand the case'to the Circuit Court, with directions to
allow the partie to amend ithe pleadings, and to take testimony, if they should
be so advised.

Tns was'an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia.
The chronological history of the case was this:
In 1839, Combs was the proprietor of a large amount of
bonds issued by the State of Texas for various sums, vhich
certificates concluded in this way:
1"This certificate is transferable by the said Leslie Combs,

