DECEM3ER TERM, 1858.

108

PennsyZvanza v. Ravend.

aimed"at, is, that by the contiguity of the fore and hind wheels
of each bearing carriage, and the swivelling motion of the
trucks or bearing carriages, the planes of the flanches of the
wheels conform more nearly to the line of the rails, and the
lateral friction of the flanches on the rails, while entering, passing through, and leaving -curves, is thereby diminished, while
at the same time, in consequence of the two bearing carnages
being arranged and connected with the body of a passenger or
burden car, by means of the -king bolts or centre pins and
bolsters, placed as remotely from each other as may be desired
or can be conveniently done, and with the weightbearing upon
the central portion of the bolsters and bearing carriages, the
injurious effects of the, shocks and concussions received from
slight irregularities and imperfections of the track, and other
minute disturbing causes, are greatly lessened."
The remarks of the court about the want of a disclaimer,
where the patent claimed too much, though correct as a general statement of the law, could have little bearing on the present case, where the disclaimer, to be effectual, would include
the whole invention claimed.
It is abundantly evident, therefore, that the court having
given a correct construction to the patent, there could be no
error in refusing to give a different one, or in refusing to admit testimony which, under this construction, was wholly irrelevant to the issue on which the jury were about to pass.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissents, on the ground of a want of
jurisdiction.
THE COMMONW ATH 1 PENNSYLVANIA, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
WiLI Am RAvENEL, EXECUTOR OF ELIZA KOHNE, DECEASED.
The question of donncil, so far as it depends upon the facts, is one fo thejury.
But it was proper for the court to instruct the jury what constituted a domicil in
law; and to say, further, that as the husband had his domidil in Pennsylvania
at the time of his death, the domicil of the widow remained-also in Pennsylvania Whether or not she afterwards changed it to South Carolina, was a ques-

SUPREME COURT.
Pennsylvanza v. Ravmnd.
tion for the jury, to be decided by the evidence. If they believed this evidence,
then the domicil of the widow was in South Carolina.
Her acts and declarations, continued for many years, were to be received as evidence of tis choice upon her part.
S[MR.

JU TI E WAYNE DID NOT SIT IN TMS CAUSE.]

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
It was an action brought by the State of Pennsylvania to
recover the sum of $5,820.23, a collateral-inheritance tax, alleged to be due from the- estate of Mrs. K6hne. It was admitted, that. unless her domicil was in Pennsylvania, the tax was
not due.
The following statement of facts was made by the counsel
for the Commonwealth, with the exception of the early history of Mrs. Kohne, which was this, according to the testimony
of Mr. Pettigru
"She was born in Charleston, her father and mother being
natives of-that place. She never went away till after the fall of
Charleston in 1780. Her father was then taken off as a prisoner to St. Augustine, and her mother took refuge in Philadelphia, where she and her daughter continued until the cessation of hostilities, they then returned to Charleston, where
she resided without interrnption.until her marriage. In May,
1807, she married -Frederick Kohne, then and for many years
previously a resident of Charleston, where they resided at
first all' the year, and afterwards alternately between that
place and Philadelphia."
wtatement of-.acts on the part of the Commonwealth.
Mr. Kohne, the husband of Mrs. Eliza Kohne, died in Philadelph-m on the 26th day.of May, 1829, and was buried there.
He was domiciled in Philadelphia at the time of his death,
which place was therefore the domicil of his widow at that
time. Mr. Kohine at the time of 'his death, owned valuable
real and persoIl estate in Philbdelphia city and county, and
also in Charleston, S. C. Among the Philadelphia propeity

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

105

Pennsylvanaz v. Bavenel.

was a large and elegant mansion house in Chestnut street,
built by Mr. Kohne in 1819, and in which he resided with his
wife from that time until his death in 1829, except when he
visited Charleston, S. C., where he and she usually spent the
winter, leaving Philadelphia about October or November, and
returning about May. They did not,-however, continue these
visits to Charleston during the last few years of Mr. Kohne's
life, owing to ill health, or other causes, but remained altogether in Philadelphia. Mr. Kohne, at the time of his- death,
also owned a mansion in Charleston, S. C., in which he and
his wife resided during the winter, as already stated. Both
mansions were furnished with servants, furniture, plate, &c.
Mr. Kohne also owned, at the time of his death, a valuable
country seat, with thirty acres of land attached, close to the
city of Philadelphia, in Turner's Lane, and now within the
corporate limits of that city, which was purchased by him in
1807, about the time of his marriage, and during his lifetime
was sometimes occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Kohne, and by Mrs.
K. after his death.
Mr. Kohne devise& his real estate, wherever situate, to his
wife for life, (with some exceptions in Charleston, S. 0.) Her
life interest extended to the mansions referred to in Philadelphia and Charleston, and to the Turner's Lane property in
Philadelphia.
She did not visit Charleston the winter after .her husband's
death, but spent a part of it in Savannah. After that winter,
however, she resumed the routine which had existed some
years prior to her husband's death-that is, of spending from
May to October in Philadelphia, and from November to May
in Charleston.
After Mr. Kohne's death, in 1829, Mrs. Kohne had his body
interred in ground belonging to Christ Church, Philadelphia,
and she had the grave constructed large enough for two persons beside each other-doubtless anticipating and providing
for what -occurred twenty-three years afterwards, her own interment by his side. She was an old member of that church,
and had a nght to be buried in any part of the ground. Eight
years after her husband's death, Mrs. Kohne, in 1837, bought

SUPREME COURT.
Pennsylvanw. v. Ravenel.

a lot in Laurel Hfill Cemetery, in which she had some one
buried, and which she owned at her death.
In the same year, 1837, her real and personal property assessed, for taxes in Philadelphia included the mansion in
Chestnut street, assessed at $27,600, eight shares South Carolina bank stock, stock in other Stateq, &c. These stocks
would not have been subject to taxation under the Pennsylvama law, unless she had been domiciled in Pennsylvania, and
she continued to pay taxes on them and similar stocks down to
the time of her death, in 1852.
In 1839, she purchased a dwelling-house and lot of ground
in Philadelphia, and the conveyance describes her as Eliza
Kohne, of the same city, (viz Philadelphia,) widow This conveyance she refers to in her will, in devising the property ta
Susan Ingles, one of her servants.
Mrs. Kohne continued to reside alternately in Charleston
and Philadelphia, according to the season of the year, until
April 30, 1850, when she left Charleston, to return there no
more, and came to Philadelphia, followed soon after by her
whole Charleston household, (except one old female servant,)
all of whom remained with her in Philadelphia until her
death, March 16, 1852, and none of them returned to Charleston during her life. These were Emma and her-husband, Jacob, Peter, Margaret, and Carolina, servants or slaves.
Mr. Frederick Kohne's name is found in the Philadelphia
Directories from 1814, and Mrs. Eliza Kohne's from 1830 to
1852.
When the cause came on for trial, there was much evidence
given upon both sides, when the court instructed the jury as
follows
"That a question of domicil was one of mixed law and fact.
That it was for the court to instruct the jury what constituted
domicil, and for the jury. to apply the principles of law laid
down by the .court to the facts as found by them, and thus render a true verdict on the issue they were sworn to try, that
the jury had no right to disregard the law as stated by the
court, and the court had no right to dictate to them on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

107

Pennsylvaniav. Ravend.

facts which they were bound to flnd on their own responsibility
"The court then pro~eededto define the meaning of the word
domicil, and the principles of law on the subject, reading from
their charge on the Aspden case such parts of it as had a proper
application to the general -question and were applicable to this
case. That charge is found in White v. Brown, (1 Wallace,
3un.) In application of these general principles of the law to
this case, the court stated that it had been affirmed that the
domicil of Frederick Kohne was Pennsylvania, because, for
three or four years before his death, he had been unable to
return to his house in Charleston, had died and was buried in
Philadelphia, and called himself, in his Will, 'Frederick Kohne,
of the city of Philadelphia.' Under these circumstances, it
appears his executors did not see fit to dispute his domicil, but
submitted to pay the collateral-inheritance tax, that, notwithstanding all this, it was not a very clear case that his domicil
was in Pennsylvania, had his executors seen fit to dispute it.
But for the purposes of this case, we should assumethat fact;
that, from the legal unity of husband and wife, her domicil was
necessarily his while the marriage existed, after his death, she
was free to choose her own domicil. If the jury find, that after
his death she returned to her former- domicil in Charleston,
took possession of the house and servants devised to her; lived
in that house six or seven months of every, year, calling it her
home, spending only a few weeks in the spring and fall in her
house here, and the remainder of the summer at wateringplaces, coming north in the summer for the sake of her health,
always intending to return to her house in Oharledton, that
she was hindered returning the last time from sickness; if she
consulted counsel how she might avoid giving any pretence to
the tax-gatherers of Pennsylvania to treat her as domiciled
here; if she carefully denied at all times her citizenship in
Philadelphia, even to erasing it from printed lists of her church
donations, as the assertion of a falsehood, if she refused to
have some of her furniture removed here, for fear such a fact
would be seized upon after her death for the purpose of asserting her domicil here, if she called herself, in her will, 'of

SUPREME COURT
Pensylvanz v. Ravened.

Charleston, if,
when absent from that place, she always spoke
of returning to it as her home, and did return to it as such, till
hindered by sickness-if the jury believed this evidence of
defendant's witnesses, testimony which has not been contradicted or denied, t would be absurd to say her domicil was
not where she asserted it to be, to wit, in the city of Charleston. It is true, the mere speaking of a place as home, in the
cant language of the Canadians and other provincials, without
any act showing an intention of returning to it, would amount
to nothing. But if the acts and the language concur, as proved
by these witnesses in. this case, it would be a denial to the
deceased of the right to choose her own domicil, not to allow
her acts and declarations, contihued for many years, to be conclusive of the fact."
Exceptions were taken to parts of this charge, and the case
came up-to this court.
It was argued by Mr Scott and Mr Hood for the plaintiff
in error, and by Xr Gerhardfor the defendant.
The points stated by the counsel for the plaintiff in error
were the following"
1. That the court charged the jury as to part only of the evidence, viz that for the defendant.
2. That the court charged the jury as to facts of which there
was no evidence.
3. That, in effect, the court took from the jury the sole material fact in the cause, viz. the domicil of Mrs. Kohne at the
time of her death.
In order to sustain these points, it was necessary for the counsel for the plaintiff in error to establish two propositions:
1. To show, from an -xamination of the evidence, that the
instructions of the court were in opposition to or not sustained
by it.
2. That this was an error to be corrected by this court; and
in support of this proposition they cited numerous authorities.
But. as. this court was- of opinion that the first proposition
was not made out, it is not necessary to recite the authorities
in support of the second.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
PennsyZvanaz v. Ravene2.

fr Gerhard denied both propositions as stated above, but
his, authorities are omitted for the same reason.
lAfr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of-error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
The action was brought by the State of Pennsylvania against
the defendant, executor of the late Mrs. Kohne, to recover the
sum of .$5,820.23, called a collateral-inheritance tax, assessed
upon the personal estate of the testatrix. Bythe law of Pennsylvania, where the property of the deceased passes to his or her
collateral heirs, or to strangers, either by theL law concerning
intestate estates, or by will, it is made subject to a specific taxation for the benefit of the State. This tax is five per centum
on the clear value of the estate. (Brightly v. Purdon, p. 138,
act 22d April, 1846, see. 14.) And according to the construc-.
tion of these acts imposing the tax, it is held, if a decedent be
domiciled in the State at the time of his or her death, stocks
of other States, or of corporations of othe' States, and debts
due in other States, in the hands of the executors or administrators, are liable to this tax. (4 Harris's Rep., 63, 18 Howard's Rep.)
But if the domicil of the deceased be not in Pennsylvania,
then the estate is not subject to the tax.
Mrs. 1Kohne died in the city of Philadelphia in March, 1852,
and the question in the court below was, whether or not she
was domiciled in Pennsylvania at the time of her death, or in
the State of South Carolina. The jur7, under the charge of
the court, found a verdict for the defendant.
The case is before us on four exceptions taken to the charge
of the court.
The first three it is not material to notice further. than to
say, that the two first are founded upon a misapprehension of
the instructions given to the jury; and the third is not maintamable, as the instruction in the connection in which it is
found is unobjectionable.
The fourth exception is, that the courti in the charge, took
the fact of domicil from the jury.

SUPREME COURT.
Pennsylvana v. Ravend.

This -exception, we think, is founded in a misappreheision
of the instrdctions given. The court, after stating to the jury
that the question of domicil was one of mixed law and fact,
observed, that it was for the court to instruct them what constituted a domicil, and for the jury to apply the principles of
law governing it to the facts as found by them, that the jury
had no right to disregard the law as laid down by the court,
and the court had no right to dictate to them as respected the
facts, which they must find on their own responsibility The
court. then stated to the jury the principles of law applicable to
the question of domicil, to which no exception has been taken.
Also, that as it had been admitted Mr. Kohne, the husband,
who died in Philadelphia in 1829, had his domicil in Pennsylvania at the time of his death, the domicil of the wife must be
taken as in that State at the time, and submitted- the question
whether or not she had since changed it to the State of South
Carolina, and then, after referring to the leading facts given
in evidence, and relied on to establish a change of domicil,
oQbserved,.that if the jury believed this evidence, the domicil
of Mrs. Kohue was in South Carolina.
The court further say, that the mere speaking of a place as
a home, without any act showing an intention to return to it,
would amount to nothing. But if acts and the language concur, as proved by the witnesses in the case, it would be a denial to the d'eceased of the right to choose her own domicil, not
to allow her acts and declarations, continued for many years,
to be conclusive of the fact.
We perceive nothing in the instructions of the court, or in
the view of the case as presented to the jury, by which the
question of domicil, so far as it depended upon the facts, was
taken from the jury The evidence was very strong in support of a change of domicil by Mrs. Kohne after the death of
ir husband, and,. if believed by the jury, it was not too much
to say, as-matter of law, that they should find for the defendant.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL, dissenting.
I cannot concur in the opinion of the court in this case.

DEGEMBER TERM, 1858.

1i1

ennsylvanza v. Rarmel.

Had I been- acting as a juror upon the trial of this cause, it
is more than probable that the- conclusion formed by the jury
upon the evidence disclosed by the record is identical with that
at which I should have arrived. And, further, had it been
withintthe legitimate province of the court, in the attitude of
the case before it, to declare what ought to'be the deductions
from facts either established in evidence, or presumed or supposed by the court to have been established, or even from facts
admitted by the parties on the trial, then exception to the
charge of the court in this case could not properly b6 taken.
The objection to the charge, and a fatal objection to my mind,
arises from the principle that the court had no authority to pass
upon or to give any opinion in relation to facts, either established by testimony or admitted or presumed, as to what those
facts amounted to, or as to the correctness or the absurdity of
any deduction which the jury might draw from them. The
power of the court was limited absolutely to the legality or relevancy of the testimony The weight or effect of the testimony,, or the deductions to be drawn from it, were peculiarly
and exclusively within the province of the jury; and the court
lad no power to inform them, or in'imate that evidence, either
exhibited in reality or presumed, should be construed in any
particular way, or to say to them a prion that an interpretation
different from that of the court, as to the weight of evidence,
would be absurd. Should the conclusion of the.jury ulon the
weight of evidence be never .so absurd, still it is the peculiar provinceof the jury to weighi that evidence, and to draw
their own independent inferences frota it; and the only legitimate corrective is to be found in. the award of a new trial, or
by a case agreed, or a demurrer to evidence. If the court can
a prorz direct the jury what the evidence, either made out in
proof or hypothetically stated, really amounts-to, the trial by
jury becomes a cumbersome formality, and. had as well, nay,
had better be dispensed with, inasmuch as in the solemn administration of justice there should be as little that is useless, burdensome; -or pretended, as possible. To show the character
of that portion of the charge of the court regarded as exceptionable, it is here inserted, as follows, viz

SUPREME COURT.
Comngton Drawbridge Company et al. v. Shepherd et al.

"If the jury find, that after his death (the death of the husband) she (Mrs. Kohne) returned to her former domicil in
Charleston, took possession of the house and servants devised
to her, lived in that house six or seven months of every year,
calling it her home, spending only a few weeks in the spring
and fall in her house here, and the remainder of the summer
at watering-places, cohnng north in the summer for the sake
of her health, always intending to return to her house in
Charleston, that she was hindered returning the last time from
sickness, if she consulted counsel how she might avoid giving
any pretence to the tax-gatherers of Pennsylvania tc treat her
as domiciled here, if she. carefully denied at all times her citizenship in Philadelphia, even to erasing it from printed lists
of her church donations, as the assertion of a falsehood, if she
refused to have some of her furniture removed here, for fear
such a fact would be seized upon, after her death, for the purpose of asserting her domicil here, if she called herself, in her
will, 'of Charleston,' if, when absent from that place, she always spoke of returning to it as her home, and did return to
it as such, till hindered by sickness-if the jury believed this
evidence of defendant's witnesses, testimony which has not
been contradicted or denied, it would be absurd to say her
domicil was not where she asserted it to be, to wit, in the city
of Charleston."
Regarding this portion of the charge as tending to confound
the powers of the court and the jury, I think that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial.
THE COVINGTON DRAWBRIDGE COMPANY AND RICHARD M. NE.EKER, APPELLANTS, v. ALEXANDER

0.

SHEPHERD AND OTHERS.

The decision of this court in 20 Howard, 227, as to what averment in the declaration is sufficient to give jurisdiction to the caurts of the United. States, again
affirmed.
Where there was a judgment at law against a bridge company, under which the
tolls were sold in execution, a court of equity has power to cause possession
to be taken of the bridge, to appoint a receiver to collect tolls, and pay them
into court, to the end of discharging the judgment at law.

