DECEMBETR TERM, 1858.

441

Pearcev. adison & IndianapoZli 1. R. Co. and Peru& IndianapolisR. B. Co.

aforesaid, delivered said bills to the plaintiffs as collateral security for a pre-existing debt of. the said R. Tyner, on which
the said Holland was endorser. And the defendant says the
moneys in said bills of exchange have not yet been paid by
the said Holland, or any one on his behalf. To this plea. there
was a demurrer.
This plea but .-reiterates in effect the' same defences which
have already been disposed of in deciding upon the demurrers.
before noticed, and it is not perceived how any additional force
can be given to them by being grouped together'in one plea.
The fact that these parties were accommodation endorsers
does ndt make them co-sureties, bound to contribute equally
to the payment of the bills, without a special agreement to that
effect; and there is no sufficient averment that any such agreement existed..
The averments in regard to the assignment are also defective, for they nowhere show that Holland had, at any time,
sufficient funds in his hands, after complying with the terms of
the trust-viz: to save Abner McCarty and others harmlessto pay this bill; and unless such a state of fact existed, there
could be nothing in his hands made available for the bills.
If the fact should appear that these partids are bound to each
other by .a separate and distinct agreement, other than that
which appears by the endorsements upon the bills, the plaintiff in error will have his remedy in an action of indebitatus
assumpsit against the other parties to the bills. But we think
the averments in the pleas, noticed are wanting in precision,
and do not bring the case within the ruleof special agreements,
which impose a joint obligation.
The demurrers are sustained, and the judgment is affirmed.

SAMUEL PEARCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,. v. THE MADISON AND
INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD COMPANY AND THE PERU AND IN-

DIANAPOLIS RAIRQAD COMPANY
Where two separate corporations were created to make railroads,'they had'no
I right to urite and conduct their business under on6 management; nor had

442

SUPREME COURT.

R. B. Co.
Pearce v. Madison & Indianapolis R. B. Co.and Pers & Indianapoli
they a right to establish a steamboat line, to run in connection with the railroads.
Notes given for the purchase of the steamboat cannot be recovered upon.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted, on printed arguments, by Mr. 0. H. Smith
'
and Mr. Fox for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Hendricks for
the defendants.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants are separate corporations, existing under the
laws of Indiana, and were created to construct distinct lines of
railroad that connect at Indianapolis, in that State. The plaintiff is the assignee of five promissory notes, that were executed
under conditions set forth in the declaration, and of which he
had notice. The two corporations, (defendants,) some time
before the date of the notes, were consolidated by agreement,
and assumed the name of the Madison, Indianapolis, and Peru
Railroad Company,.and under that name, and under a common board of management, conducted the business of both
lines of road.
While the business of the two corporations was thus directed
and managed, the president of the consolidated company gave
these notes in its name in payment for a steamboat, which was
to be employed on the Ohio river, to run in connection with
the railroads. After the execution of the notes, and the acquisition of the boat, this relation between the corporations was
dissolved by due cohrse of law, and, at the commencement of
the suit, each corporation was managing its own affairs. The
plaintiff claims that the two corporations are jointly bound for
the payment of the notes, but the Circuit Court sustained a
demurrer to the declaration.
The rights, duties, and obligations of the defendants are defined in the acts of the. Legislature of Indiana under which
they were organized, and reference must be had to tl ese, to

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

448

.Pearce v. Madison & Indianapolis R. R. Co. and Peru & Indianapolis R. R. Co.

ascertain the validity of their contracts. They empower the
defendants respectively to do all that was necessary to construct
and put in operation a railroad between the cities which are
named in the acts of incorporation. There was no authority
of law to consolidate these corporations, and to place both

under the same management, or to subject the capital of the
one to answer for the liabilities of the other; and so the courts
of Indiana have determined. But in addition to that act of
illegality ..the managers of these corporations established a
steamboat lifi-e to run in connection with the railroads, and
thereby diverted their capital from the objects contemplated
by their charters, and exposed it to perils, for which they afforded no sanction. Now, persons dealing with the managers
of a corporation must take notice of tho limitations imposed
upon their authority by the act of incorporation. Their powers are conceded in consideration of the advantage the public
is to receive from their discreet and intelligent employment,
and the public have an interest that neither the managers nor
stockholders of the corporation shall transcend their authority.
In McGregor v. The Official Manager of the Deal and Dover
Railway Co., (16 L. and Eq., 180,) it was considered that a
railway company incorporated by act of Parliament was bound
to apply all the funds of the company for the purposes directed
and provided for by the act, and for no other purpose whatever,
and that a contract to do something beyond these was a contract to do an illegal act, the illegality of which, appearing by
the provisions of a public act of Parliament, must be taken to
be known to the whole world. In Coleman v. The Eastern
Counties Railway Co., (10 Beav., 1,) Lord Langdale, at- the
suit of a shareholder, restrained the corporation from using its
funds to establish a steam communication between the terminus of the road (1larwich) and the northern ports of Europe.
The directors of the company vindicated the appropriation as
beneficial to the company, and that similar arrangements were
not unusual among railway companies. Lord Langdale said:
".Ample powers are given for the purpose of constructing and
maintaining the railway, and for doing all those things required
for its proper use when made. But I apprehend that it has no-

SUPREME COURT.
Pearce v. Madison & IndianapolisR?. 1B. Co. and Perm & Indianapolis1?. R. Co.

where been stated that a railway company, as such, has power
to enter into all sorts of other transactions. Indeed, it has been
very properly admitted that railway companies have no right
to enter into new trades or businesses not pointed out by the
acts. But it has been contended that they have a' right to
pledge, without limit, the funds of the company for the encouragement of other transactions, however various and extensive, provided that the object of that liability is to increase the
traffic upon the railway, and thereby to increase the profit to
the shareholders.
"There is, however, no authority for anything of that kind.
It has been stated that these things, to a small extent, have
been frequently done since the establishment of railways; but.
unless the acts so done can be proved to be in conformity with
the powers given by the special acts of Parliament, under which
those acts are done, they furnish no authbrity whatever. In
the East Anglian Railway Company v. The Eastern Counties
Railway Company, (11 C. B., 803,) the court say the statute
incorporating the defendants' company gives no authority respecting the bills in Parlianient promoted by the plaintiffs, and
we are therefore bound to say that any contract relating to
such bills is notjustified by the act of Parliament, is not within
the scope of the authority of the company as a corporation, and
is therefore void."
We have selected these cases to illustrate the principle upon
which the decision of this case has been made. It is not a new
principle in the jurisprudence of this court. It was declared
in the early case of Head v. Providence Insurance Company,
(2 Cr., 127,) and has been reaffirmed in a number of others
that followed it. (Bank-of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet., 519;
Perrine v. Ches. and Ohio Railroad Company; 9 How., 172.)
It is contended, that because the steamboat was delivered to
the defendants, and has been converted to their use, they are
responsible. It is enough to say, in reply to this, that the
plaintiff was not the owner of the boat, nor does he claim
under an assignment of the owner's interest. His suit is instituted on the notes, as an endorsee; and the only question
is, had the corporation the capacity to make the contract, in

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Unte Staks v. Fossatt.

the fulfilment of which they were executed? The opinion of
the court is, that it was a departure from the business of the
corporation, and that their officers exceeded their authority.
Judgment affirmed.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. CiARLEs FoSSATT.
The only cases which will be taken up out of their regular order on the docket
are'those where the question in dispute will embarrass the operdtions of the
Government while it remains unsettled.
But if the court below, to which a mandate is sent, does not proceed to execute
it, or disobeys and mistakes its meaning, the party aggrieved may, by motion
for a mandamus, at any time, bring the errors or omissions before this court for
correction.
No appeal will lie from any order or decision of the court below which is not 1
final decree.
The decree o)f the court below, in the present case, was not a final decree.
The jurisdiction of the board of commissioners for the settlement of private land
claims in California, and of the courts of the United States on appeal, extends
not only to the adjudication of questions relating to the genuineness and suthenticity of the grant, and others of a similar character, but also all questicus
relating to its location and boundaries ; and does not terminate until the issi e
of a patent conformably to the decree.
It is the duty of the surveyor general to cause all private claims which shall bt
finally confirmed to be accurately surveyed, and to furnish plats of the same.

Tais was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
It was the same case which was before this court at the preceding term, and is reported in 20 Howard, 413. The position
of the case is explained in the second opinion of the court, as
delivered by Mr. Justice Campbell.
Being so down upon the docket as that there was no probability of reaching it in the regular order of business, a motion
was made to take it up out of its regular turn. This motion
was argued by -Mr.Bayard 4nd Mr. _Neson in favor of it, and
by 3ir. Black against it.
_Mr. Black (Attorney General) remarked, that he could not
say that the public business of the Government was obstructed
in consequence of the pendency of this, appeal.

