DECEM3BER TERM, 1858.

579

WaZker v. Smith.

JoH

M. WALKER, APPELLANT, V. JONATi A

B. H. SMITH.

By an act of Congress, passed on the 3d of March, 1835, (4 Stat at L., 171,) a
certain quantity of land was appropriated to the satisfaction of Virginia military land warrants, with a proviso that if the land was not enough to satisfy
the warrants, a distribution should be made fpro rata,in full satisfaction of the
warrants. Under it a dividend.of ninety per cent. was made.
In 1852 (10 Stat. at L., 143) another act was passed, providing for the deficiency
of ten per cent., and directing the Secretary of the Interior to issue land scrip
in favor of the "present proprietors" of any warrant thus surrendered.
A bill in chancery for an injunction to prevent the Secretary from issuing the
scrip to one of two claimants cannot be sustained. The Secretary must decide,
and then it becomes a chose in action, upon which a court can act.
Moreover, in this case thL complainant has not made out such a case as to entitle

him to relief

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by 31r. Chilton and Mr. Davidge for the appellant, and by Mr. Carlisle for the defendant, on a brief by
M1r.-Badger and Mr. Carlisle.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The purpose of this bill is to obtain an injunction to prevent
the issuing of certain scrip to appellee by the Land Office, and
to have cancelled the assignment under which the appellee
had, by the officers of Government, been adjudged entitled to
the scrip.
This bill was properly dismissed by the court below, as a
brief statement of the case will show. The'act of Congress of
3d March, 1835, made a further and apparently final appropriation of six hundred and fifty thousand acres, to be applied to
the satisfaction of Virginia military land warrants. It provided
that "no scrip should be issued thereon until the 1st of September following,.and that warrants should be received in the
General Land Office till that day; and immediately thereafter,
if the amount filed exceeded six hundred and fifty thousand

SUPREME COURT.
WaZker v. Skmith.

acres, the Commissioner of the Land Office should apportion
the said six hundred and fifty thous&nd among the warrants
which shall then be on file, in full satkfaction thereof."
This appropriation #as sufficient to pay ninety per cent. of
the warrants received.
William S. Scott, as attorney for the heirs of General Charles
Lee, filed a warrant in their names for fifteen thousand acres;
which was surrendered and satisfied by the issue, of land scrip
for thirteen thousand five hundred acres, being ten per cent.,
or one thousand five hundred acres less than the whole amount
called for -on the face of the warrants.
The warrants were therefore fully satisfied; and, being sur
rendered, were no longer evidence of any right of property.
But it seems that, notwithstanding this surrender and satisfaction, there was a sort of lingering hope or expectation that
some time hereafter, Congress, by continued importunity,
might be prevailed upon to make some further grant of and
to satisfy the shadow of equity which was supposed to remain,
after the warrantees had surrendered their warrants and accepted the satisfaction tendered.
On the 30th March, 1837, Scott signed an instrument in
form of a power of attorney, which, after reciting that he had
sold to Walker, the complainant, the warrants, and delivered
him the scrip issued in lieu thereof, stated as follows: "Now,
the object of this power of attorney is to secure the said Walker
the said ten per cent. of warrants unsatisfied, or any and every
equivalent that may be at any time given in lieu thereof," &c.
On the 18th of January, 1838, Scott conveys by indenture,
in consideration of seven hundred and fifty dollars, and *ith
warranty, the Lee warrants, on which he alleges there is"still
due one thousand five hundred acres" to defendant. At this
time the records of the Land Office contained no evidence -of
the prior assignment (if such it can be called) to Walker; and
a clerk in the office endorsed on the respondent's deed as follows: "William S. Scott, the party grantor of the within, has
full authority on file to sell the warrants and appoiiL a substitute; and in the event Congress makes up the ten per cent., the
scrip to be issued will be delivered to Mr. Smith."

DECE MBER TERM, 1858,
TFZker v. Smit .

Thus the matter stood for fourteen years, when at length,,
on the 31st of August, 1852, Congress passed an act, which
authorized an issme of land scrip in favor of the prescnt proprietors of any outstanding military land warrants, &c. This scrip
is to be issued by the Secretary of the Interior, who is to make
the necessary inquiries, and "be satisfied by a revision of the
proof, or by additional testimony," &c.
It seems that this act has been construed to include not only
unsatisfied warrants, but the ten per cent. not given on the
satisfied and surrendered warrants. It is a liberal construction of the statute, and so far as it extends to the scrip in question, it is a simple gratuity. The Secretary is made the agent
for its distribution. It is his duty to ascertain the parties entitled to it, if any person can be said to have a title to a -gift
before it is received. Whei he issues the scrip, it then becomes a "chose in action," capable of being dealt with as
property by courts of justice; but not till then. The question,
as to who may be considered as the "present proprietor" of
these surrendered and satisfied warrants, must be decided by
him in the first instance by the rules, customs, and practice of
the Land Office. Before the act of Congress; this right was
too subtle (being no more than the remote expectation of a
gift) to be dealt with by courts, and the act of Congress has
not conferred on them the distribution of their bounty. Besides, if an injunction was issued to hinder the defendant from
receiving the scrip which the Land Office has concluded to
give him, this would confer no title on the complainant.
Whether, after the Land Office have issued the scrip to a
claimant, another person alleging fraud or misrepresentation,
and claiming himself to be the "proprietor" intended by the
act, might not obtain the interference of the courts, to obtain
a transfer of the scrip to himself, is a question not presented
in this case.
But assuming that the court would undertake to- decide as
to the respective right of thesd claimants, treating their claims
as tangible equities, the complainant has not made out such a
case as would entitle him .to relief. His power of attorney (or
whatever it' may be called) mentions no consideration paid.

SUPREME COURT.
Barber v. Barber.

The answer of defendants, which is responsive to the bill,
(which avers a purchase at market price,) denies the payment
of any consideration whatever, and none has been proved.
The defendant has paid a large and valuable consideration
without any notice of the plaintiff's claim, has made his proofs,
has had the decision of the Land Office in his favor. He has
obtained an advantage of which a court of equity will not deprive him under the circumstances.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed with cost.

HIRAM BARBER, APPELLANT, V. HIJLDAH

A.

BARBER, BY HER

NEXT FRIEND, GEORGE ORONKHITE.
This court disclaims altogether any jurisdiction in the courts of the United States
upon the subject of divorce or for the allowance of alimony, either as an original proceeding in chancery, or as an incident to a divorce a vinculo, or to one
from bed and board.
But where a court of competent jurisdiction in New York decreed a divorce a
mensa et thoro between man and wife, allowing alimony to the latter, and the
husband removed to Wisconsin for the purpose of placing himself beyond the
jurisdiction of the court which could enfoice it, without having paid any bart
of the alimony, or leaving any estate of any kind out of which it could be paid,
the wife can sue by her next friend in-a court of the United States, having
equity jurisdiction, to recover the amount of alimony decreed by the State
court.

A divorce a vincul, obtained in Wisconsin without a disclosure of te circumstances of the divorce case in New York, and upon the allegation by the husband that the wife bad wilfully abandoned him, cannot release the husband
there and everywhere else from his liability to the decree made against him in
New York, upon that decree being carried into judgment in a court of another
State of this Union or inv a court of the Unitdd States, where the defendant may
be found, or where he may have acquired a new domicil, differing from that
which he had in New York when the decree was made there against him.
The cases in EDgland and in the United States examined, in which a wife may sue
her husband by her next friend.
A court of chancery in England will interfere to compel the payment of alimony
which has been decreed to a wife by the ecclesiastical court, and the principal
reason for its exercise is equally applicable to courts of equity in the United
States. The parties to a cause for a divorce and for alimony are as much
bound by a decree for both, which has been given by one of our State c-nrts

