•DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

463

conversa v. Unf~d &&au.

ed from it, aud thrown upon other lines, greatly to its injury,
and it would seem that circuitous. routes, have been selected,
rather than the more direct ones. If this be so, does it afford
a ground for relief? There is no obligation on a persoi sending a telegraphic message to select the shortest or the 1.ongest
line. He may consult his own interest or choice in such a
matter, and he incurs no responsibility to any one, unless he
has entered into a contract to forward all such messages on a
particular line. 1No such allegation is contained in the bill,
and there is no charge that the Western Telegrapl Company
has been molested in the exercise of its patented rights, except
by the transfer o' its business to other lines; and-it is not alleged that these lines are prohibited from carrying messages.
by reason of their contiguity to. the plaintiftis' lines.
Judgment affirmed;

.JAMES C. CONVERSE, A.DMINISTRATOR OF PHILIP GREELY, DE.
CEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.
1. The provisions in the appropriation acts of 1849 and 1850, &c., &c., must be
construed in connection with the previous laws in relation to the same subject.
matter.
2. A compensation for extra services where no certain compensation is fixed ty
law cannot be allowed by the head of a Department to any'officer of the Government who has by law a fixed or. certain compensation for his services in the
office he holds. Nor can it be allowed by the court or jury as a set-off in a suit
brought by the United States against an officer for public money in his hands.'
-3. No allowaiee beyond his fixed compensation can be made except for the performance of eer;tin duties required by law to be performed, for which the law
grants -a certain compensation to be paid, and which have no connection-with
the duties oftle office he holds.
4; The Secretary of the Treasury, under the acts of Congress above mentioned,
-*as authorized to appoint an agent to.purchase all the supplies necessary for
the light-hbu~e sbrvice.throughout the United States, and to make the neces- sary d4isbursemenl therefor. And such agent was entitled to a compensation
of two and.a half per tent, on the amount disbursed, and the money.was appr.
,priated to-pay it.
5. The Secretary'bad a right , under these laws, to select as agent any one already
holding office, if he supposed him to be best-qualied for the duty. But he had

SUPREME COURT.
Converse v. Unite

States.

no right to order a collector of the revenue, or any other officer of the Government, to perfotm this duty without compensation outside of the light-house
district of which he was superintefident, or outside of and alien to the office he
held.
6. The collector of Boston, having been the agent selected by the Treasury Department to purchase supplies for the light-house service throughout the United
States, and to make the disbursements, is entitled to the compensation fixed by
law for this service, so far as it was outside of his district and beyond the limits
to which his duties as an officer extended.
1. It has not been the policy of the United States to give unlimited power to the
heads of departments over the subordinate officers of the Government whose
salaries and duties are regulated by law.
THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Cir-

cuit Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.

The case is explained in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Russell and Mr. Cushing for the plaintiff in error, and submitted by Mr. Stanton on a brief by Mr.
Black (AttorneS General) for the United States.
The examination, by the counsel, of the various acts of Congress bearinlg upon the point in dispute is rendered unnecessaiy
'by the investigatiqn of,them contained in the opinion of the
judges.
court, and also in the opinion of the dissenting
Mr. Chief Justice TAN1EY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the distrIct of Massacbusetts.
The pleadings and facts in the case, and the points in controversy, are briefly yet clearly stated in the exception and
opinion of the court, as set forth in the transcript, in the following words:
"Be it remembered, that at a term of the Circuit Court of the
United States, holden at Bostop, within and for the district of
Massachusetts, on the 15th day of May, 1857, by the Honorable Benjamin R. Curtis, circuit judge, and the Honorable
Peleg Sprague, distribt judge, came the United States of America, and by an action of assumpsit declared against James C.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Converse v. United Stkt.

Converse, of Boston, in said district, as he is administrator"f
the goods and estate of Philip Greely, jun., late of said Boston,
deceased, and late collector of customs at said Boston, in said
district, as by the writ and declaration of recordwill appear;
to which the defendant.pleaded the general issue, :and filed certain claims in set-off, as by said set-off of- record will appear;
and the plaintiffs joined in said issue, and thereupon said cause
came on for trial before the said Circuit Court, at said May 'term,
before a jury empannelled for that purpose; and the said defendant then and there claimed to be allowed, among other things,
in set-off against the plaintiffs' claim, the sum of seventeen
thousand six hundred and eighty-four dollars and ninety-two
cents, ($1 7,684.92,) as c~mmissions due him from the plaintiflh
upon certain contracts, purchases, and disbursements, made by
him for oil and other articles for the light-house service of the
United States, under direction of the Secretary of the Treasury.
"_At the trial it appeared by the transcript from the Treasury
Department of the plaintiffs, introduced by them in evidence,
that said claims had been duly and properly presented by the
defendant's intestate, Mr. Greely, at the Treasury Department,
for credit and allowance, and had there been disallowed, and
no objection wls made by the plaintiffs to the defendant's right
to recover of the plaintiffs upon this ground.
"It also appeared that the defendant's intestate, as collector,
had, during each year lie was collector, received the compen.
satidn of .six thousand dollars, and also the sum of four hun
dred dollars allowed by law.
"INo question.was made as to the amount of commissions
claimed. The plaintiffs, in their transcripts, admit that the
sum of $17,684,92 is two and a half per cent. commission upon
the defendant's disbdrsements for light-house purposes during
his term of office,- and no -bjection wai made that that is not
the py6per conmission, -if the defendant is entitled to any.
"It was furtlier admitted that the defendhnt was, from May
1st, 1849,. to, A£pril st, 1853, superintendent of lights and disbursiug agent for the district of Boston.
"The ,.dutiesof this office, it was offered-to prove, were the
80
VOL. XXL

-

SUPREME COURT.
Converse v. United &ate..

charge and superintendence of all light-houses between Eastham and Plum Islandi :Newburyport, including the making of
all necessary disbursements for the payment of the keepers'
salaries, wages of men, repairs, and the necessary supplies, in
the same manner as other superintendents and disbursing
agents in their respective districts.
"The defendant then offered to prove the following facts in
regard to these disbursements upon which the aforesaid commission was claimed.
"The Secretary of the Treasury, or the proper officer under
him, during the whole term of the defendant's office, was accustomed from time to time to send specific orders to him to advertise for proposals, make contracts for and purchase all the
oil, lamps, wicks, and supplies of every kind, required for the
whole light-house service of the United States, as well that
of the sea coasts as the lakes aud rivers.
"Agreeably to such orders or requests, the defendant did,
from time to time, make all these contracts and purchases,
draw the necessary contracts, and all payments and disbursements thereunder and therefor, take charge of the property
when purchased, and distributed the same in such quantities
and to such points, all over the United States, as were required
or directed by the Treasury Department. These services involved much time, labor, and responsibility, on the part of the
defendant, and were performed at the request and upon the
order of the Treasury Department. The defendant paid out
no moneys which have not been allowed.
"And itwas upon all disbursements thus made thathe claimed
the aforesaid two and a half per cent. corhmissions, amounting
to $17,684.92.
"The plaintiffs objected to this evidence, because they said-,
admitting all that was thus proposed to be proved, it gave the
defendant no claim whatever to the commissions claimed.
"The court thereupon, after consideration, ruled and decided
that, admitting all that the defendant thus offered to prove to
be true and as alleged, yet the defendant had no rightful claim
against the plaintiffs to the said commissions, or any part thereof,
and could not-recover the same iiI set-off, but thatthe defend-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

.467

Converse v. United &dat.-

ant, being the collector of customs, and as such,. having received the aforesaid compensation of
d$6,000'and of $400 each
year, 'could not recover any sum whatever for the commissions
claimed as aforesaid; and the court thereupon refused to admit
the evidence ofered, and instructed the jury, in accordance
with said ruling, and for the reasons therein stated, that the
defendant could.not recover for said commission.
"To which ruling, decision, and instruction, the defendant
then and there "excepted."
The question to'be decided on this exception is undoubtedly
one of some difficulty. But the difficulty arises "not so Tduch
from ambiguity of language in any one of the acts of Congress,
as from the great number of-acts passed from time to t'me on
this subject, which have been. referred to in the argument.
They, for the most part, differ in language in some degree from
one another, and are generally introduced in some clause or
proviso of the lpsual annual appropriation law, or an appropriation to provide for previous expenditures, and yet all bear,
with more or less force, on the question before us.
The acts referred .to are- 1822, 3 Stat., 696; 1839, 8 Stat.,
489; 1841, 5 Stat., 432; 1842, 5- Stat., 510; 1845, 5 Stat., 786;
1848, 9 Stat., 297; 1849, 9 Stat., 865, 367; 1850, 9 Stat., 501;
542, 543; 1851, 9 Stat., 629; 1852, 10 Star., 97, 100; 1852, 10'
Stat., 119, 120.
It is obvious, therefore; that in order to carry into execution
the intention of the legislative department of the Government,
these various laws on the same subject-matter must be taken
together and construed in connection with each other. And
we should defeat instead.of carrying into eitecution the will of*
the law-making power, if we selected one or two of these acts,
and founded our judgment upon the, language they contained,
without comparing and considering them in association with
other laws passed upon the'sa:me subject.
It would extend this opinion to, an unreasonable length, to
quote at large the language of the various acts and provisos
above mentioned; nor indeed do We deem- it, necessary, because the object and policy of this whole legislation, when
taken together,. w4ll be made evident by looking to the state

SUPREME COURT.
Converse v. United States.

of the law before and at the time the different laws were passed,
and the defects which then existed, and which they were intended-to remedy. A particular reference to a few of them,
in chronological order, will-be sufficient for this purpose, and
we shall refer to those which have been mainly relied on by
the Circuit Court, or by the counsel for the United States,
in order to support the judgment of the court below.
The first law upon this subject is the act of May 7, 1822,
section 18, which'provides that "no collector, surveyor, or
naval officer, shall ever receive more than $400 annually, exclusive of his compensation as collector, surveyor, or naval
oflicer, and the fines and forfeitures allowed by law for any
service he may render in any other office or capacity."
At the time this law was passed, the collectors, surveyors.
and naval officers, were, in certain contingencies mentioned in
the act of March 2, 1799, required to do the duties of the
offices of each other; and, without any special law upon the
subject, it was the settled practice and usage of the (Governmcnt to require collectors to superintend lights and- lighthouses in their respective districts, and to disburse money for
marine hospitals and the revenue-cutter service; for which, by
the practice and regulations of the Treasury Department, they
were allowed certain commissions. But there was no act of
Congress imposing these duties on the collector, or fixing his
commissions for Lhese services and disbursements. They were
charged as extra services--that is, as not belonging to the
office of collector, and the amount of his compensation depended altogether upon the discretion of the Secretary of the
Treasury for the time being. These extra allowances in some
instances amounted to very large sums; and it appears that
the attentioi) of Congress was at length attracted to this subject, and it was deemed right, and more consistent with the
nature and character of our institutions, to fix by law the compensation for these services, and not leave it in every case to
depend upon the discretion of the Secretary, and the act of
1822 was accordingly passed for that purpose, and for that
purpose only. The language is clear, precise, and appropriate,
and no multiplication of words could more plainly indicate its

DECEMBER TERM; 1858.

469

Comwre v. United States.

object. The words "any other office" were evidently used
with reference to the contingencies in which one of these officers might be required to perform the duties imposed by law
on one of the others. And the words "or other capacity" were
equally esential,. in order to embrace the extra allowances
made for the agency of which we have spoken, as they were
not the duties of an office created by law, but a mere agency
of one "ofthe departments of the Government. The law does
not forbid compensation for extra services which have no
affinity or connection with the duties of the office he holds.
On the contrary, it recognises his right, and gives the collector
or other of these revenue officers an additional sum, over and
above their salaries as officers, for extra services rehdered as
agents, which had no legal connection with their respective
offices.
The 4luties for which this certain compensation was fixed
were well known in the usages and practice of the Government, and Congress could'therefore ict advisedly and- with
knovledge, and judge what amount of money would- be a fair
compensation. But it will hardly be supposed that Congress,
by this law, intended to fix this anio.ont for, every unforeseen
and possible' service, or the duties of every possible -office
which one of .thdse revenue officers should be directed or requested by the Secretarr in some emergency to fill; for; as Con-gress could not foresee what might be the character and importance of such a dut, there 'was no basis on 'which a judgment of its value could be formed. Npr can" it be 'supposed
that they intendcd to.regulate in advance its conipen'ation or'
value without some data-to act.iupon.
Besides, no.other saiaried officer is mehtioned in this law but
collectors, surveyors, and- naval officers; ,and it would'hardly
*be just to the legislativebody to -impute. to it the design of
dealing more harshly with these reventie officers than any
other officers of the Government who have certain sataries, or
to Sul 5pose they *oild deny to "them compensation in cases
-where every other salaried officer was allowed to claim-and receive it.
We have dwelt ufore particularly on this act of Congress,

470

SUPREME COURT.
Conver8e v. United S.atw.

because the principles and policy on which it was passed form
the basis of all the subsequent legislation on this subject, and
will be found, with some modification, in every law. The
great object has been to establish, by law, the compensation
for public services, whether in offices or agencies, ivhere the
nature and character of the duties to be performed were sufficiently known and definite to enable Congress to form an estimate of its value, and not leave it to the discretion of the head
of an executive department.
After this act of 1822, there is no act of Congress bearing
upon the question until 1839. In the mean time, about the
year 1833, and subsequently to that time, several cases-came
before the Supreme Court, in which officers who were not
named in the act of 1822, but who received a fixed salary as a
clerk in a department, or a fixed compensation as an officer in
the army, or in some other office, claimed the right to set of
against the United States compensation for extra services undertaken by the direction of the Secretary, and for which there
was no fixed eompensation by law. And in these cases this
court held that such compensation might be claimed and set
off under the act of Congress allowing set-offs against.the
United States; and that, where the extra service had been required by the head of ,the proper department, the officer was
entitled to a reasonable compensation, to be allowed by the
jury upon the evidence, even if there was no law expressly requiring the service or fixing compensation for it; and that it
might be ascertained and allowed by the jury in proper cases,
under tle direction of'the court, even if the head of the department had fixed no compensation, and refused to allow the
claim.
Under th~se decisions, claims of this description were frequently made, and the United States involved in inconvenient
controversies in court. These controversies again attracted
the attention of Congress to the subject pf compensation for
extra services; and in 1839 they passed an act, embracing all
persons holding office with a fixed. salary, precisely similar in
its principles with the act in relation to custom-house officersthat is to say, they took away from the-heads of departments,

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.
Converse v. Unit

&atw.

and from courts and juries, the right to fix the compensation
in any case whiere it was not fixed by law; and if there was no
law ascertaining the compensation or allowance for the particular service, the party was entitled to none. It carries out the
principle and policy of the. act of 1822, and provides that there
shall be no compensation in addition to the salary, "unless
said extra allowance or compensation be authorized by law."
Nor does the act of August. 23, 1842, (5 Stat., 510,) go
further than the act of 1839, except only in declaring that, in
order to entitle the party to demand compensation, it musl
not only be fixed by law, but that the law appropriating it
shall explicitly set forth that it is for such additional pay, extra
allowance, or' compensation.. Now, these words, added to the
provisions in the act of 1839, only show that the Legislature
contemplated duties imposed by superior authority upon the
officer as a part of his duty, and which the superior authority
had in the*emergency a right to impose, and the officer was
bound to obey, although they were extra and additional to
what had previously been required. But they can by no fair
interpretation be held to embrace an employment which has
no affinity or cohnection, either in its character or by law or
usage, with the line of his official duty, and where the service
to be performed is of a different character and for a different
place, and the amount of compensation regulated by law.
I This provision is introduced in the annual appropriation law
for the support of the army and Military Academy. And 'although the words ate general, and undoubtedly include officers in every branch of the public service, .yet,from the general character and objects of this law, it is manifest that the
attention of Congress must have been mainly directed to officers in the military service, who, from the position in which
unforeseen events often place them, are called upon and required to perform duties not specified by law or regulation,
but which grow out of, and are associated with, military service.
We pass on to the acts of 1848 and 1849, which are the
more important because they were passed about the time this
collector came into office, and apply particularly 'to the reve-

-472

SUPREME COURT.
Converse v. United Staes.

nue officers of which we are speaking. The clauses which
bear upon this question in each of these laws is inserted in
the annual civil and diplomatic appropriation law, by way of
proviso to the clause making appropriations to the maintenance of the light-house service. The act of 1848 appropriates $11,640.85, being a commission of two and a half per
cent. on the whole amount appropriated for that service, with
a proviso that no part of the sum thereby appropriated should
be paid to any person who received a salary as an officer of
the customs; and that from and after the 1st day of July,
1849, the disbursements should be made by the collector of
the customs, without compensatiou. And if this law still remained in force, it is very clear that the agency of which we
are speaking would not have been authorized by law, and the
set-off claimed by the plaintiff in error could not be allowed.
But this proviso in the act of 1848 is recited at large in the
appropriation of 1849, and repealed without any saving or
qualification; and this repealing clause is immediately preceded by an appropriation for superintendents' commissions
of $11,673.25, being two and a half per cent. on -the whole
amount appropriated for light-house purposes. There is no
restriction in these commissions in relation to revenue officers.
The commissions are to be paid on the whole amount, without
any reference to the person or officer who performs the service;
consequently, under this law the revenue officer who performed
this duty within his own district was entitled to two and a half
per cent. commission on the amount disbursed; and previous
acts of Congress restricting this alloivance were repugnant to
this law, and thereby repealed. The repeal of the act of 1848
could not, upon any sound principle of law, revive any previous act which was repugnant to the provisions contained in the
repealing act of 1849. And this act allowed the commission
of two and a half per cent. in all cases, and appropriated the
money to pay it, leaving it to the Secretary of the Treasury to
select as agent each collector for his collection district, or any
other agent that he might deem more suitable for the trust.
The act of September 28th, 1850, however, restored the provisions contained in the first act referred to-that is, the act of

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

47a

Comvms v. United ,States

1822-and provides that no collector shal receive for his services as superintendent of light-houses over the sum of $400
per annum. But this act was followed by the civil and diplomatic appropriation law, passed at the same session, September 30th, 1850, only two days after the law above mentioned,
in which the compensation is. again modified in amount, and
collectors whose salary .exceeds twenty-five hundred dollars
can receive no compensation as superintendent of lights or disbursing agent. Yet this law, like the preceding appropriation
laws, appropriates a sum equal to two and a half per cent. commission upon the whole amount appropriated for light-house

service, and the Secretary might therefore employ any agent
he pleased; and if he was not the collector, he would be entitled to full commissions. The same provisiohs are contained
in the appropriation acts of 1851, (9 Stat., 608,) 1852, (10 Stat.,
86,) and 1853, (10 Stat., 200.)
It will be seen, from this history of the complicated legislation on this subject, that, however varying the provisions may
be in some particulars, they are yet all founded on the principles and policy of the acts of 1822 and 1839, and that all of the
provisos respecting the commissions to a revenue officer are
confined to his collection district, and its extra customary duties therein as agent. .
The just and fair inference from these acts of Congress,
taken together, is, that no discretion is left to the head of a
department to allow an officer who has a fixed compensation
any credit beyond his salary, unless the service be has performed is required by existing laws, and the remuneration for
them fixed by law. It was undoubtedly within the power of
the department to order this collector, and every other collector
in the Union, to purchase the articles required for light-house
purposes in their respective districts, and to make the necessary disbursements therefor. And for such services he would
be entitled to no compensation beyond his salary as collector,
if that salary exceeded $2,500.
But the Secretary was not bound to intrust this service to
'the several collectors. He had a right, if he supposed the public interest required it, to have the whole service performed by

SUPREME COURT.
Converac v. United Sta.

a single agent; for while the law authorizes him to exact this
-service from the several collectors, it at the same time evidently
authorizes him to commit the whole to an agent or agents other
than the- collectors, by regulating the commission which an
agent shall receive, and appropriating money for payment of
commissions of two and a half per cent. upon the whole
amount authorized to be expended in this service. And as
the collectors would by law be entitled in some cases to nothing, and in others to the small sum above mentioned, if
the service was performed by them in their respective districts, it is very clear, from the commissions allowed, and the
appropriation to pay them, that he was at liberty to employ a
different agency, and pay the commissions given by the law
whenever he supposed the public would be better served by
this arrangement.
And the case as assumed in the record is precisely that case.
The Secretary had no right, under the laws upon this subject,
to order this or any other collector to perform this duty for
all the light-house and collection districts. The law has
divided it among them, and the executive department had
no right to impose it upon one. But he had a right, as
we have said, to employ an agent, instead of the collector
or collectors of the several districts; and if he did employ
one, the law fixed the compensation, and appropriated the
money to pay it. He was not forbidden to employ a revenue officer for this purpose; and, so far as his services were
performed for other districts, le stood in the same relation to
the Government as any other agent. The law forbidding compensation, or reducing it to a small amount, did not apply to
this service. The agency was entirely foreign to his official
duties, and far beyond the limits of the district to which the
law confined his official duties and power. And as the department appointed him to perform a duty required by law,
for which the compensation was fixed by law, and the money
appropriated to pay it, he is entitled to the compensation given
by law, if he has performed the duty; for the Secretary has
no more discretionary power to withhold what the law gives,
than he has to give what the law. does not autherize. The

DECEMBER TEEM 1858.
Converse v.

475

nild State.

agency and services performed in this instance bad no more
connection with his official duties and position than the purchase of a supply of shoes for the troops in Mexico, in the late
war, would have been, in the absence of any other person authorized to make such a purchase. And if such a duty -as
requested or required of him by the head of the proper department, and performed, nobody would deny his right to compensation, if the law authorized and required the service to be
donie, and fixed the compensation for it.
Upon the case, therefore, as the plaintiff in error offered to
prove it, we think the court erred in refusing to admit the
testimony.
Undoubtedly, Congress have the power to prohibit the Secretary from demanding or receiving of a public officer any service in any other-office or capacity, and to prohibit the same
person from accepting or executing the duties of, any agency
for the Government, of any description, while he is in office,
and to deny compensation altogether, if the officer chooses to
perform the services; or they may require an officer holding
an office with a certain salary, however small, to perform any
duty directed by the head of the department, however onerous
or hazardous, without additional compensation. But the legislative department of the Government have never acted upon
such principles, nor is there any law which looks to such a
policy, or to such unlimited power in the head of an executive
department over its subordinate officers.
N o explanation is given of the rinciple upon which the four
hundred dollars additional compensation was allowed. If the
services were regarded as extra and additional, -and within the
prohibition of the law, then he was not entitled to this additional allowance, because his salary exceeded twenty-five hundred dollars, and nothing more than the salary fixed ought to
have been allowed him. But if they were not within the prohibition, but for services in a different agency, then he was entitled, not merely to four hundred dollars, but to the commissions fixed by law. This su~m could not have been allowed for
sulplies in his own district, excluding those for other districts,
because, as regards his own district there is an express proht-

SUPREME COURT.
Converse v. Unied States.

bition as above stated. We, however, express no opinion upon
that particular item; and whether it is a proper allowance or
not, must be determined by the Circuit Court, when it hears
the evidence at the trial.
For the reasons above stated, the judgment of the Circuit
Court must be reversed.
Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice GRIER, and Mr. Justice
CA2MPBELL, dissented.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case. The opinion of the presiding judge of the Circuit
Court, in my judgment, contains an exact exposition of the law
of the case. Justices Catron and Grier authorize me to say
they concur in this dissent, and we adopt that opinion as our
opinion, which is in the following words:
This is an action for money had and received to the use of
the United States, by Philip Greely, jun., the defendant's intestate, while collector of the customs for the port of Boston
and Charlestown.
A number of items were in question when the case was
opened, but in the progress of the trial all were disposed of to
the satisfaction of both parties, save a charge made by the intestate, of $17,968.92, as commissions on disbursements made
by him under the orders of the Secretary of the Treasury, in
the purchase of oil and other materials for light-houses. The
question is, whether the collector was entitled, by law, to make
this charge against the United States for that service. Mr.
Greely held the office of collector from May 1, 1849, to May
1, 1853.
By the act of March 3, 1841, see. 5, (5 Stat. at L., 432,) it
was enacted, that " no collector shall, on any pretence whatever, hereafter receive, hold, or retain for himself, in the aggregate, more than six thousand dollars per year, including all
commissions for duties, and all fees for storage, or fees or
emoluments, or any other commissions, or salaries, which are
now allowed by law."

DECEMTBER TERM, 1858.
Converse v.

nited

477

aes..

The act of August 23, 1842, see. 2, (5 Stat. at L., 510,) is as
follows: "That no officer in any branch of the public service,
or any. other person, whose salary, pay, or emoluments, is or
aie fixed by law or regulations, shall receive any additional
pay, extra allowance, or compensation, in any form whatever,
for the disbursement of public money, or for any other service
or duty whatsoever, unless the same shall be 'authorized by
law, and the appropriation therefor explicitly set forth, that it
is for such additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation."
It being admitted that Mr. Greely was an officer whose salary, pay, or emoluments, was or were fixed by the law, and
that he had received its full amount of six thousand dollars,
indepefident of the charge in question, it is incumbent on the
defendant to show, not only that the-service wras authorized.
by law, but also that the appropriation for that service explicitly sets forth that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation. It is not enough to find an act of
Congress authorizing a service, and making an appropriation
'to pay for it. This would be sufficient, provided the person
rendering the service were not an officer, or other person, entitled to a fixed compensation. If he be, and he claims an
extra compensation for an extra service, he must produce an appropriation which explicitly. sets forth that it is made for such
additional compensation; that is, he must show not only that
Congress contemplated and provided for a service, and payment therefor, but that they contemplated-and explicitly provided that if it should be rendered by one already entitled to,
a fixed compensation, he should nevertheless receive, in addition thereto, the compensation provided for- such service.
And the addition of such compensation to a fixed compensation is not to be inferred from any equitable considerations,
but must be found explicitly declared in the law itself.
Such, in my judgment, is the fair interpretation of the language of this act; and the history of the legislation of Congresq
upon this subject of the extra compensation of officers makes
this fiterpretation, if possible, still' more plain and necessary.
The defendant relies on the following clause in the appropriation act of March 3,1849, (9 Stat. at L., 867:) "For super-

SUPREME COURT.
Converge v. Unied.Sate..

intendents' commissions, at two and one-half per cent. on the
$466,930.08 appropriated above for light-house purposes,
$11,673.25. And the proviso contained in the act making
appropriation for the civil and diplomatic expenses of.the Government, for the year ending the 30th day of June, 1849, and
for other purposes, approved, &c., which proviso is in the following words: 'Provided, that no part of the sum hereby appropriated shall be paid to any person who receives a salary
as an officer of the customs; and from and after the 1st day of
July, 1849, the said disbursement shall be made by the collectors of the customs without compensation, is hereby repea\%d.' "
The argument of the defendant's counsel is, that the express
repeal of this proviso is equivalent to an explicit declaration
that parts of the sum appropriated by this act might be paid tc
persons who received salaries as officers of the customs, and
that it was not to be disbursed by collectors without compensation.
But, certainly, this appropriation does not "explicitly set
forth that it is for additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation." If this appears at all, it is only inferentially; and the
inquiry is, whether it be a necessary inference that some part
of this sum was appropriated as additional pay or extra compensation to collectors who should perlorm the service of superintendents of lights.
Now, the proviso which was repealed consisted of two parts.
The first related exclusively to commissions in the disburse.
ment of the appropriation for light-house expenses made for
the fiscal year ending on the 30th day of June, 1849; and- it
prohibited the payment of any commissions out of the. sum
thus appropriated, to afiy officer of the customs who received
a salary.
The second part of the proviso positively required the service of making dislbursements as superinfendents of lights to
be performed by collectors of customs, after July 1,- 1849,
without compensation. It left no discretion with-t&e Secretary of the Treasury to appoint any other person to discharge
this duty.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Converse v. Unike4

479

Stakey.

The repeal of the proiiso, left the right of officers of the cus.
toms to participate In the commissions for disbursing the appropriation made-for the year ending June 81,-1849, to stand
upon the law as elsewhere foun&; and restored to the Secretary of the Treasury the power to appoint persons other than
collectors to make the disbursements; and if collectors should
be appointed, it left their right to commissions to depend on
the law as elsewhere found.
It must be admitted that this repeal might, under some circumstances, indicate an intention to have collectors participate
in these commissions. If they have been for the first time
deprived of them by the proviso, its repeal would quite clearly
show that their former title was restored. But the contrary is
true. Independent of the proviso, they had no title to this or
any other extra compensation, and, by force of the act of August 2, 1842, could have none, unless explicitly granted by the
act making the appropriation; so thai unless I can say that
the repeal of the proviso either repeals the second section of
the act of 1842, or satisfies its requirements by an explicit appropriation to pay an extra compensation for an extra service,
the defendant has no title to the commission. That 'the. second section "ofthe act of 1842 is not repealed by implication,
by the repeal of the proviso, is clear. There is no repugnance
between this .repeal and the act of 1842. The reasons for repealing the entire proviso may have been that the act of 1842
was broad enough to cover the cases of extra compensation
contemplated by the proviso, and so it was not necessary, in
so far as its object was to provide for those cases; and in so
far as it required the service tobe performed by collectors only,
that -it
was inexpedient. But to amount to a compliance with
the second section of the act of 1842, it should have superadded
to the repeal of the proviso, an explicit declaration that the
appropriation was intended as extra compensation to those
officers, having fixed salaries, who- might be selected to render
the service.
There are two other views of this subject, either of which
would, in my judgment, be sufficient to show. that there-is no
lawful claim to these commissions.,

1 480

SUPREME COURT.
Convmse v. Unild States.

The first is, that although Mr. Greely was superintendent of
lights within a certain district, extending round the Massachusetts Bay, yet these commissions are charged on disbursements
made by him in the purchase, under the'orders of the Secretary of the Treasury, of oil and some other materials for the
whole light-house service of the United States. Now, the appropriation made is for "superintendents' commissions." If
he did not render this service as superintendent, but, aside
from that employment, acted under the orders of the Secretary
of the Treasury in making large purchases for this service, no
appropriation is made for paying him. It was, no doubt, an
onerous and responsible duty, imposed upon him because he
happened .to be at a place favorable for making these purchases; and this may constitute a claim on the equitable consideration of Congress, especially if the imposition of this on erous duty on him, instead of distributing it among all or most
of the superintendents of lights, was advantageous to the Government. But this is for the consideration of Congress. It
does not enable me to say an appropriation to pay commissions
by way of extra compensation was actually made.
3esides, if the repeal of the proviso in the aot of 1848 were
neld to amount to an explicit declaration that collectors might
participate in the commissions of superintendeDts., by way of
extra compensation, the inquiry would still remain, To what
extent may they receive such extra compensation? And this
seems to me to be answered by the act of May 7, 1822, sec. 18,
(3 Stat. at L., 696,) "That no collector, surveyor, or naval officer, shall ever receive more than four hundred dollars annually, exclusive of his compensation as collector, surveyor, or
,naval officer, and the fines and forfeitures allowed by law, for
any services he may perform for the United States in any other
office or capacity." In the case of Hoyt v. United States, (10
How., 141,) the Supreme Court considered this section in force,
and applied it to the case of a collector who held office from
March, 1888, to March,,1841, and I am not aware of its hay
ng been since repealed. It was admitted that, aside from the
charge now in question, Mr. Greely had received extra compensation to the extent of four hundred dollars annuially, for

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

481

Penn v. Holme.

services performedt for the United States in a capacity othe
than that of collector. It follows, that for services performed
in making these contracts and disbursements, which were not
within his duties as collector, he can make no further charge.
What has thus far been said relates exclusively to the defendant's claims under the act of 1849. The subsequent acts
are so much more unfavorable to these claims, that I do not
deem.it necessary to enter into a particular discussion of them.
They are the acts 6f September 30, 1850, (9 Stat.. at TL., 533,)
March 3, 1851, (9 Stat. at L., 608,) and August 81, 1852, (10
Stat. at L., 86.) I have examined these acts, and am satisfied
each of them deprives every collector, whose compensation exceeds twenty-five hundred dollars, of all participation in these
commissions, though, they are required to render the service
of superintendents of lights or disbursing. agents in procuring
supplies for them.

WnhIAm FENx, P I TTIFriN ERROR, V. PETER H. HoLmE.
The plaintiff in ejeetment must in all cases prove a legal title to the premises in
himself; at 'the tinie ofthe demise laid in the declaration, and evidence of an
equitable title will not be sufficient for a recovery.
Hence, the holder of a New Madrid certificate, upon which no patent had been
issued, and whilst it was yet uncertain whether or not the proposed location of
,it
was reserved under older surveys, could not recover in ejectment. Thelegal
title was in the Government.
The case4 referred to, showing the necessity of preserving the distinction between.
legal and equitable righfs and remedies.
The practice of allowing ejeetments to be maintained in State courts upon equitable titles cannot affectthe jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United Statds for the district of Missouri.
The 'case is explained in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Gibson and Mr. Gambe for the -plaintiff in error, and by Ifr. Leonard for the defendant; but the
. VOL. xxi.
81.

