THE DECISIONS
OF

=

SUPREME COURT OF THE. UNIEI

STATES,

.AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

THE CILAu

s

AN

OWNERS OF THE

STEAME

LOUISINA,

APPELLANT4, V. ISAAC FISHER AND OTHERS, OWNERS OF THE
SCHOONER GEORGE D. FISHER.
Where a steamer approaches air object at nigh; and the captain is.uncertain
what it is, he should slacken Ins speed. If he does not take this precaution,
his vessel will be responsible in case of's collision with another vessel.
The mght was not so dark as to make it the duty of the schooner to show a light.
,The schdoner was discerned by the steamer in suueient time to have avoided
the collision, if proper care had been exercised.
[U3. JUSTICE

W.&MM

DID xo NO
Sr

mI
HISASE

THIS was ,an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland, sitting in admiraltyThe facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The District Court decreed that the li1bellants should recover
the- sum of three thousand, dollars, they having Claimed SLx
thousand. 'From-this decree both parties appealed, but uponits being arrmed iti the Circuit Court as to bothcross-appeas,
the clamants .of the steamerewere the only party who brought
the case up to tns cour.
It was argued by XM.Schley for the appellants, and by M,.,
Wallis and Mr ?rwe! for the appellees.
VOL..XXI.

I

SUPREME COURT.Steamer Louisianav. Isaac Fisher e a.

The arguments in cases of collision chiefly rest upon an
examination of the evidence, without involving any general
principles of law. The following were the two points contended for by Mr. Schley:
1. That the omission of the schooner to display a light3
under all the circumstances, was actual neglect, and a culpable
fault. The following acts of Congress were cited in illustration:
1888, chap. 191, sec. 10, 5 Stat. at L., 806.
1849, chap. 105, sec. 5, 9 do., 882.
Also, -the statute 14 and 15 Victoria, chap. 79, sec. 26.
The following cases were cited:
The Londonderry, 4 Supp. Notes of Cases, xlvi, 5 Eng,

Adm. Rep.
The Iron Duke, 2 W. Rob., 388, 9 Eng. Adm., 382.
Barque Delaware v. Steamer Osprey, 2 Wallace, jun., 268.
Rogers v. Steamer St. Charles, 19 How., 109.
Ure v. Coffman, 19 How., 63.
Ward v. Armstrong, 14 Illinois, 285.
Simpson v. Hand, 6 Whart., 324.
Carsley v. White, 21 Pick., 254.
The Aleival, 25 Law and Equity Rep., 604.
Williams V. Chapman, 4 Notes of Cases, 590, .592.
N. Y. and Va. Steamship Co. v. Calderwood, 19 How., 246.
7. Even if the schooner was not bound to display a light, as
an act of legal duty, and even if the omission to do so was not,
in fact, any want of care, yet it was no fault of the steamer, if
the persons who were on the lookout on board of the steamer
were physically unable, from the absence of a light, to discern
the schooner, in due time to have made the necessary dispositions to avoid a collision. The rule should then apply, that
in a case of misfortune, withoutfault on either side, the suffering
party is without redress.
Peck v. Sanderson, 17 How., 178.
Stainback v. Rea, 14 How., 532.
Upon these points, the counsel for the appellees contended
that, as matter of law,. there was no obligation on the part of
the schooner to carry a light or to display one on such a night;

DECEMBER TERM. 1858.

3

Stanwr Louiana v. Isaac Fisher et al.

and, as matter of fact, the question of her having been without
a light was not a practical one 'inthis case. The evidence
shows that the schooner could and should have been, And was,
in fact, seen without a light, at such a distance as would have
rendered a collision impossible, had ordinary care and skill
been exercised on board of the Louisiana.
St. John v. Paine, 10 How., 586.
The Panther, 24 Eng. L. and Equity, 585, 587.
Walsh v. Rogers, 13 How., 283.
Newton v. Stebbin s 10 How., 606.
Ure v. Coffman, 19.How., 62, 63.
Morrison v. Nav. Co., 20 E. Law and Equity, 457, 458.
Mioreover, the evidence shows that although those on board
the steamer could not tell, when they first saw the schooner,
whether she was under way or at anchor, they still recklessly
kept up their great speed of fifteen miles an hour, and ran so
close to her that, when they did actually discover her to be in
motion, they could not,.by stopping and backing, prevent the
collision. The schooner, therefore, Was in no default.
The Londonderry,-4 Notes of Cages Supplem., 87, 38.Ward v. The Ogdensburgh, 5 McLean, 622.
Newton v. Stebbins, 10 How., 606.
The Perth, 3 Haggard, 417.
Steamei Oregon. v. Rocca, 19 How., 572.
•Rogers v. St. Charles, 19 How., 108.
Peck v. Sanderson, 17 How., 180, 182.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees instituted their suit in the District Court of
the United States for the district of Maryland, sitting in admiralty, against the'steamer Louisiana, in a cause of collision
arising between the steamer. and the schooner George D.
Fisher,. in the Chesapeake bay, in December, 1855, in which
the latter was run into and sunk, and became a total loss.
The libellants charge; that before and at the time of the collision the schooner was bound on a voyage from Philadelphia
to Norfolk, through the Chesapeake bay, and was properly
manned and equipped for that voyage, and carefully navigated.

SUPREME COURT.
,Stamer Louisiana v. Jiaac Fish~ered al.

That the steamer was seen from the schooner, shortly after ten
o'clock P. M., about eight or ten miles distant, steering up the
*bay, the schooner making about four knots an hour, in a southwest course, against the wind, which wai-blowing about south
by east. That when the steamer was within a half mile or a
mile distant, she appeared to be hauling to the westward, with
the apparent intention of crossing the schooner's bows, but
shortly'afterwards seemed to be again "hauling to the eastward,
as if to drop under the schooner's stern. That this last moveilient was made too late, the distance between the two vessels
being too inconsiderable to allow it to be of any avail. That,
the moon was shining, and the schooner might have been seen
at a considerable distance. That the course of the steamer
was between north-northeast and northeast.
The claimants in their answer admit the fact of the collision,
and the consequent loss of the schooner, and that it was a moonlight night, but say that it was cloudy in the western part of
the horizon, anid, inconsequence of heavy banks of snow-clouds
in that quarter, it was- impossible to see vessels, coming in that
direction, without lights, at any considerable distance, and a
steamer, therefore, coming up the bay, could not make such
regulations as to speed and course" as to avoid collisions, that
would have been practicable and proper under other and more
favorable circumstan*ces. They allege that the schoonep did
nbt carry a light, and was the only vessel seen without one,
and in consequence of this deficiency,-and the character of the
night, the schooner was not visible, and could not be seen
until the two -vessels were within the short distance of three or
four- hundred yards. In reference to the- fact of the-collision' they, answer, that
when-the schooner was first seen ftom the steamer, the schooner
was to the eastward, and proper action was.had on board the
steamer- to direot her course to the westward; but when the
course- of-the schooner in that direction was ascertained, the
'course of. the steamer was changed, and the boat was stopped
and backe. ; but from the proximity of the vessels at this time,
it Was impossible by any effort to avoid the .collision. The
steamer was running. at' the rate of fifteen miles-an hour before

DECEMBER TERI,

1858.

5

Steamer Louisiana v. Isaac£isher e aL.

this time. The District Court pronounced a decree of condemnation, which was affirmed in the Circuit Court on appeal.
The evidence convinces the court that the schooner might
have been distihctly seen from the steamer at a greater distance
than a half mile.
It is shown that another vessel was sailing in the wake of
the schooner, and was guided in her course by her, and that
the schooner was distinctly visible to those who were on board
that vessel at a greater distance.
It also satisfactorily appears that the schooner was. in fact
discovered by the lookout on board the steamer when the
vessels were several-hundred yards apart, and that, by careful
management of the steamer, the collision might then have
been avoided.
The captain of the Louisiana says: "That after Passing the
Rappahannock light-boat I saw a black object;, it appeared to
be heading About south-southwest down the bay; it was about
two pointa or two points and a half to the east of us. -I could
not tell at that moment whether it. 'as a vessel at anchor or
under way, but directly discovered it was a vessel under way,
and she kept right hard off to the westward. This vessel had
no lights. I think the distance was from two hundred yards
to two hundred and fifty. As soon as I saw her jib, I called
to Mr. Marshall (pilot) to stop and back." Cross-examined,
he says: "From the time I first saw the vessel until the tirne
of the collision, was, I should suppose, two minutes, more or
' less. The vessel changed her course, and kept off hard to the
westward. I saw her jib, which enabled me to judge that it
was a vessel under way. The change took place immediately
after I f3rst saw the object. When I first saw it, it looked like
a cloud. I could not tell if it was a vessel -t anchor or under
way. When I saw the jib, I first. knew it was a vessel under
way."
NTotwithstanding the unceitainty in the mind of this officer,
the vessel under his comm and continued on in her voyage with
unabated speed- No order was given to arrest her progress
till a collision with the schooner had become inevitable. This
was a grave error, and it was followed by -isastrous conse-

SUPREME COURT.
iSeamer Louisiana v. Isaac Fisheret at.

quences, for which the owners must render indemnity. In
the case of the Birkenhead, (3 W. Rob., 75,) the steamer was
directed upon the supposition that a sailing vessel under way
was at anchor, and" proper precautions were taken under that
hypothesis. The circumstances were such as might have occasioned a mistake. But the judge of the admiralty, with the
advice of the Trinity masters, condemned the steamer to compensate for the collision, saying "that she should not have
prosecuted her voyage in any uncertainty, but should have
eased or reversed her engines until the fact was ascertained."
The case of the James Watt (2 W. Rob., 271) is similar in its
circumstances to the one under consideration. The master
testified, that when he discovered the sailing vessel, he ported
his helm without stopping to ascertain her course. "In my
apprehension,", said the judge, "the master of the James Watt
would have acted, under the circumstances, with greater prudence and caution, if, upon first discovering the sailing vessel,
instead of porting his helm, he had continued his course at
slacked speed, by easing his engines till he was able to discover
the course the sailing vessel was steering, and then acting
according to circumstances. If he had pursued this course, it
is apparent from the evidence, that, in the short space of about
a minute after the sail was reported, he would have discovered
her course, and could have adopted the measures that might
altogether have prevented the collision."
The evidence shows that the George D. Fisher was making
a southwest course, and was close hauled -upon the wind.
That she did not vary her course after the steamer came in
sight. That the steamer was first directed to the westward,
and afterwards to the eastward, and then stopped and backed,
and that these contrary movements were- the result of the
doubts of her officers as to the position or course of the
schooner. If the order to ease the engines, or to stop, had
been given in the first instance, the probability is that the catastrophe would have been avoided.
The decisions of this court have settled that this was the
duty of the steamer under such circumstances. (Peck v. Sanderson, 17 How., 178.) It is -contended on the part of the-

7

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
oielZer _Niagarav. Cordes d al.

appellees that the schooner is responsible for failing to carry a
light. In the case of the Osmanli, (7 Notes of Cases, 507,) the
learned judge of the admiralty says: "That no question has
been more mooted and left more uisettled than this-whether
it is the duty of a sailing vessel at night to show a light.?
-Beyond all doubt, it has been determined there is no such general obligation, at the same time, there have been occasions
on which, for the sake of avoiding a misfortune, winch was in
all human probability likely.to occur, it became the duty of a
vessel to show a light." In the present case, -wehave not been
able to discover any fact that imposed the obligation upon the.
schooner to do so. The night was moonlight; and though the
light was occasionally obscured, the evidence does not show
that it was so, to a degree that rendered the navigation of the
bay at all dangerous, if care, skill, and vigilance, had been
employed upon the different vessels.
The court is of opinion that the schooner was discerned from
the steamer in sufficient time, and that the latter might have
avoided the collision by the exercise of proper care.
Decree affirmed.
Mr. Justice DAI-EL dissented, for want of constitutional
power in courts of the United Statts in admiralty.

THE PROPELLER NIAGARA, HER ENGINE, &c., ANSEL
AND

OTHERS,

CLAimANTS

AND

APPELLANTS,

R. COBB

V. JOSEPH H.

CORDES.

THE

PROPELLER lNIAGARA,

HER ENGINE, &C.,

ANSEL

R.

COBH

AND OTHERS, CLADIANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. LESTER SEXTON AND OTHERS.
Where a general ship, employed in navigating the lakes, receives goods under a
contract of shipment corresponding in terms to the usual bill of lading for the
transportation of goods on inland navigable waters, her liability must be determined. by the rules of law applicable to carriers of goods upon such inland
waters.
A common earner by water, as-on land; is responsible for every loss or damage,
however occasioned, unless it happenedby the act of God or the public enemy,

