SUPREME COURT.
Poorman et at. v. Woodward et aZ.

The Government agent and commissioners took this view of
,these several claims, and but one argument was made in all of
them, and that in the case of the brig Enterprise, and but one
opinion delivered by the commissioners. As they disagreed,
a second argument was made before the umpire.
The preparation of the claim of Pemberton, beyond the
proofs of the interest of his company in the case of the Creole,
was a very- trifling matter; and even these proofs had been
already furnished to this Government, at the time the appeal
was made there for redress. And as it respects the questions
of international law involved in these cases, they had been the
subject of repeated discussion between this Government and
Great Britain, and also in Congress, by some of the most distinguished statesmen and jurists of the country; and thepreparationfor the argument of the claim before the board of commissioners required little else than the labor of digesting and
reproducing the principles and reasoning to be found in these
discussions.
For the reasons above given, we are satisfied the agreement
and proofs in the case furnish no legal or just ground for a
claim to the sum of money awarded by the court below, and
that the decree should be reversed, and the proceedings remit
ted, with directions to enter a decree dismissing the bill.

DANIEL POQRMAN AND OTHERS V. WILLIAM

C. DUSENBERRY, LATE
OF WOODWARD & DUSENBERRY.
WILLIAM

A.

WOODWARD AND

PARTNERS UNDER THE FIRM

Where certain persons gave a joint aud several note for the purpose of raising
money, and their agent received a certificate of deposit which certificate was
afterwards duly paid upon presentation, the signers of the note cannot escape
from their responsibility upon the plea that a certificate of deposit was not
money.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district ot Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

)J UC MBER TERM, 1858.
Poormanet al. v. Woodward e al.

It was argued by Mr. Stanbery for the plaintiffs "in error,
and by Mr. 3arbury for the defendants, upon which side there
was also a brief filed by Nrr. Smyt he, which was adopted by Mr.
Swayne.
!fr. Stanhery contended that a certificate of deposit is in
no sense cash, or money; it is simply an acknowledgment of A
debt, with a promibe of payment. The transaction between
Hood and Woodward & Dusenberry was simply the exehange
of one form of negotiable security for another.
This was clearly a breach of trust, and a perversion of the
authority to use the note for the loan of money.
:e referred to the following cases:
Thorold v. Smith, 11 Modern, 71, 87.
Bartlett v. Pintland, 10 Barn. and Cress., 758.
Atkins v. Owen, 4 Ad. and Ellis, 819.
Nightingale' v. Devisone, 5 Burr., 2589.
Mr. .Narburymade the following points:
1. This was an action of assumpsit, in which the plaintiffs
below, the defendants in error, Woodward & Dusenberry, recovered of the defendants below, the plaintiffs in error, Poorman et al., the sum of $4,478.76, being amount of the cash
balance of $2,997.67 due to the defendants in error, with inter.
est thereon from December, 1849; to the date of the judgment,
with costs.
2. The whole amount originally loaned and advanced to
Poorman et al. was the sum of $6,000. This loan was made
on the joint and several note of Poorman et al. for $15,000,
dated Somerset; Ohio, October 24th, 1849, and payable to the
order of Woodward & Dusenberry, thirty days after date.
3. With this note in his hands, Thomas Hood, one of the
joint makers thereof, applied to W. & D., in the city of Nev
York, for a loan of $6,000, and requested them to deliver to
him their certificate of deposit of that amount, to the credit of
John Ritchey, Esq., cashier.
4. Ther6upon the note was delivered to W. & D., and on
the faith thereof the certificate 'of deposit was delivered to

SUPREME COURT.
Poorman et al. v. Woodward et al.

Hood. Ritchey, the payee, duly endorsed the certificate; and
when it was presented, subsequently, by the bona fide holders
thereof, to Woodward &Dusenberry, they paid the full amount
thereof in cash, according to its tenor and obligation.
5. The certificate of deposit, so granted, was in effect, as the
court below corriectly instructed the jury, money, and came
within the authority to borrow money-an authority which
Hood had expressly received from the other makers, and which,
moreover, he possessed independently as one of the joint makers of the note.
6. No restriction or limitation was placed on Hood's power
as to the amount of the loan, iior as to the mode, or form, or
kind of funds, in which it was to be effected. He had a general authority ag joint maker and hlder to borrow or raise
money on the note, in any way not illegal, for the benefit of
himself and his .associates.
7. The transaction was just the same in legal contemplation and in substance as if he had received the $6,000 in specie
or bank bills, or the check of Woodward & Dusenberry, and
then deposited the amount with them, and taken their certificate of such deposit:
8. The certificate was of the deposit of so much money, and
in fact it yielded in money, on -presentation, the full sum of
$6,000, expressed on its face.
9. The makers of the note lived in Ohio, where they wanted
td use their fund-; and for their convenience and accommodation- this negotiable certificate of deposit of cash, answering
their pu'rpose as cash, was granted.
. 10. The class of cases relied on by the plaintiffs in error,
such as Bartlett v. Pintland, (10 Barn. and Cres., 758; Atkins
v. Owen, 4 Ad. and Ellis,) merely hold that a naked agent,
authorized to receive payment, cannot do so by discharging a
debt due from himself to the party by whom the payment
should be made. (See observations upon those cases-Dunlap's Paley's Agency, 284.)
This court has held, in a more analogous case, (Ta'yloe r.
Merchants' Fire Ins. Co., 9 How., 402,) that where the mode of
payment is not prescribed, the agent may exercise a discretion.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Poormanet al. v. Woodward et al.

11. The judgment should be affirmed, with costs.
The brief adopted by Mr. Swayne contained the following
more extended notice of the authorities cited by 21r. Stan.
bery, and also of some American authorities:
It will not do to narrow the question to the simple proposition stated in Mr. Stanbery's brief, viz: whether the certificate is money. It is not necessary to affirm this, to show the
transaction binding on all the parties, and the remedy within
the count, for money had and received. Hood, having authority to borrow money .on this note, had authority to receive
anything which, in the usual course of business, is treated as
such, and will command it. If he got the money or its equivalent, the object of himself and his principals was attained;
and it does not lie in their mouths, after having acquiesced
in what was done, and realized the money on the certificate, to dispute their liability, because the money, in form,
was not given to Hood at the precise time that he parted
with the note.
With all due respect for the learned counsel and his ancient
authorities, we dubmit, that they do 'not meet this case.
Thorold v. Smith was the case of a servant sent to collect a
debt due his master, and he received a goldsmith's note and
gave a discharge. The note was not paid, the maker becoming insolvent. The question was, "whether this was good payment to the plaintiff, and was held to turn on the authority
conferred on the servant. And it was agreed by the court that,
this was a matter of evidence to the jury, and that the authority in the servant was to be presumed, if the master did not
promptly return the note, and that he "was acquainted with
and acquiesced in what had been done." And C.J. Holt said
that "any jury at Guildhall would find payment, by a bill, to
be a good payment, it being a common practice of the city."
In Bartlett v. Pintland, the broker, employed to secure a loss
on an insurance policy, set off his own debt to the underwriters,
and became bankrupt. This was held not to discharge the liability.
In Atkins v. Owens, the defendant was employed simply to

SUPREME COURT.
Poarmanetal. v. Woodward et al.

,procure an endorsement of a time bill of exchange by a party
from whom the plaintiff'had received it, and he, the defendant,
converted the bill to his own use, without receiving any money
upon it. It- was held that, though liable ia trover, assumpsit
for money had and received would not lie.
- In Nightingale v. Devisone, the defendant had received from
Mittivier, who was a bankrupt, the transfer of five hundred
pounds EastIndia stock. Theplaintiffs, assignees of the bankrupt, brought suit for money had and received. Lord Mansfield
said this was a new species of property, and was not money to
be recovered in that form of action.
As to the Pirst case cited, can there be a doubt that, even in
that age, if the servant or the master had, in fact, received the
money on the goldsmith's note, that the plaintiff in that case
would have been estopped? So, in the last case cited, if the
defendant had converted the stock into money, is there any
question that the action for money had and received would
lie? The other two cases do not seem to be at all analogous.
It will be observed that in England, especially in the -earlier
cases, there was a strong disposition to limit the evidence, under
the money counts, to strict money transactions. Lord Holt
strenuously resisted the then growing practice in trade of treating bankers? cash notes and promissory notes as negotiable,
until they were made so by the statute of Anne. But the
American authorities have liberalized . the doctrine in this
respect, to ipeet the expanded customs of commercial transactions, and have held those money securities which in the common course of business are treated as money, and even bills
of exchange and promissory notes, proper evidence under the
money counts. They have even gone farther, and sustained
this action in cases where there was no negotiable money security received by the defendant, but where, in the nature of
the transaction, he ought, in equity, to respond for money
received.
Thus, in State Bank v. Hurd, (12 Mass., 172,) an endorsee
of a negotiable nbte recovered against the endorser. The action
was also sustained in behalf of the endorsee against the maker

DEOCEM13ER TERM, 18b8.

9 71"

Poorman e aZ. v. Woodward d.

(Ramsdell v. Soule, 12 Pick., 126.) And, even where the
maker signed the note for the accommodation of the payee.
(Cole v. Cushing, 8 Pick., 48.) So also in behalf of the holder
of a note payable to bearer.
Grafit v. Vaughan, 3 Burr., 1516.
Pierce v. Crafts, 12 J.-R., 90.
Olcott v. Rathbone, 5 Wend., 490.
So it has been held that if a draft, not negotiable, be acceptedby the drawee, with an agreement to pay the amount to any
person to whom it is assigned, the assignee, after notice, maymaintain the action for moriey had and received against the
acceptor.
Weston v. Penniman, Mason, 306.
In Tuttle v. Mayo, (7 J. R., 132,) it was held that the taking
of negotiable paper is equivalent to the receipt of money, so as
to maintain this action.
So in Floyd v. Day, .(8Mass., 403.) If an agent compromise
a demand o' his principal, by receiving from the debtor a negotiable note, endorsed specially to the agent, the principal
may recover of the agent the amount of the liquidated damages, in an action for money had and received.
The taking of a promissory note as payment of an execution,
and endorsing it satisfied, was held equivalent to the payment
of money, and thatthe amount of "such note may be regarded
as money.
.Clark v. Pinney,. 6 Cow., 297.
In Bank of Kentucky v. Wister et al., (2 Pet., 325,) where
depreciated bank bills, passing in community at one-half their
value, were deposited with the bank, and a certificate taken,'
this was held to be equivalent to money.
If a creditor.receive of his debtor a demand against a third
person, payable in money, as a pledge or, collateral security
for the debt, and the creditor-receive paynient of the demand
in money or otheirwise,'and appropriate the proceeds to his
own use, and there be more than sufficient to pay the debt, the
debtor may recover the surplus, in an action foi money.had
and received.
Randall v. Rich, i Mass., 494.'

SUPREiME COURT.
Poorman et al. v. W odward et at.

Emerson v. Cutts, 12 Mass., 78.
If two be jointly concerned in merchandise, to be sold for
profit, and one takes and appropriates it' to his own use, he is
liable to the other for his proportion of the net profits, in this
form of action.
Stiles v. Campbell, 11 Mass., 321.
Where an attorney or agent has discharged a debt due to
his principal, and applied the 'amount to the payment which
the attorney owed to his principal's debtor, the amount of the
debt so discharged may be recovered in this form of action.
So, where an attorney, on a judgment in favor of his client,
purchased lands under the execution, and paid by discharging
the judgment, this action will lie.
Beardsley v. Root, 11 J. R., 464.
Property paid or used as money will support the action
for money had and received, the same as if money itself had
been paid and received.
Ainslee v. Wilson, 7 Cow., 662.
In Picard v. Banks, (13 East., 20,) a stakeholder, who had
received banker's cash notes, and had wrongfully paid them
over to the losing party, was held liable to the winner in an
action for money had and received; and this, upon the ground
that, though the notes were not money, yet being received as
such, and so treated, he should not say they were only paper,
and not money.
And in Owenson v. Morse, (7 T. R., 64,) it is said of such
notes, that, "on account of their being payable on demand,
they are considered as cash; but, if presented in due time and
dishonored, they will hot amount to payment," unless the defendant had agreed to take them as payment.
A certificate of deposit is like a check on a banker, of which
it is said, (Chitty on Bills, 323,) "in practice they are taken as
cash, and it has been decided that a banker in London, receiving
bills from his correspondent in the country, to whom they had
been endorsed to present for payment, is not guilty of negligence in giving up such bills to the acceptor, upon receiving
a check on a banker for the amount, although it turn out that
such check is dishonored."

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

273

Poormane al. v. Woodwdrd e aZ.

Russell v. Hankey, 6 T. R, 12.
If the agency of a stranger, for receiving payment for his
principal, will thus authorize the receipt of such securities as
money, why may not an agent, having a common interest with
his principals, do the same thing?
In construing the authority conferred on Hood by the plain-'
tiFs in error, we must look to the circumstances of the parties,
their place of residence, their relations to the subject of the,
agency and to each other, their common interest in the transaction; and if Hood did what it may reasonably be supposed
the others would have done, had they been present, it cannot
be said that he exceeded his authority. And, especially, if,
after it was done, they acquiesced by their silence, and availed
themselves of the benefits of the transaction, they must be presumed to have authorized it. If Hood treated the certificate
as money, so did they; and shall they now be permitfed to say
that they will not be bound by their agreement to receive it as
money?
In passing upon the transactions of men, the law treats the
subject-matter according to the usual understanding and usages
prevailing where the transaction took place. In this view, the
certificate of deposit is money. It is so treated and dealt with
in the common business of life.
Mr. Justice CATRO{ delivered the opinion of the court.
M
Hood and nine others, including the defendants, made a
note of hand in Ohio, dated October 24th, 1849, for ftfteen
thousand dollars, payable to Woodward & Dusenberry thirty
days after date, at their office in New Tork.
For himself, and as the agent of the other nakers, Hood ap,plied to the payees, Woodward & Dusenberry, for an advance
of money on the note, for the benefit of all the makersjointly.
Woodward &Dusenberry agreed with Hood to advance, on a
pledge of the note, as security, six thousand dollars; and Hood
requested them to give to him their certificate of dep6sit for that
sum, to the credit of John Ritchey, cashier; which was done,
and Ritchey, as payee, endorsed the paper to Hood. It was
subsequently presented for payment by bona fide holders, and
18
VOL. XXI.

SUPREME COURT.
Poorman et al. v. Woodward et al.

Woodward & Dusenberry paid the full amount thereof in
cash.
At the time the certificate of deposit was given, and endorsed by Ritchey, and the fifteen thousand dollar note deliv
ered to Woodward & Dusenberry, they agreed with Hood that
if he shbuld return to them the certificate of deposit, they
would then surrender to him the note. The money advanced
not having been refunded, except in part, this suit was brought
in assumpsit to recover the balance.
In their answer to a bill of discovery, Woodward & Dusenberry admit they were advised by Hood that the $15,000 note
"had been executed by himself and his friends, the other
signers thereof, for the purpose of borrowing money thereon
for the joint benefit of all of them;" also, "that at the time
said note was delivered to the said Woodward & Dusenberry,
.they issued and delivered to said Hood, for the joint use
and benefit of al.I the parties signing said note, as the respondent understood it, the certificate of deposit of said
•-oodward & Dusenberry for the sum of six thousand dollars, by request of said Hood, made payable to the order
of John Ritchey, Esq., cashier at the office of said Woodward & Dusenberry in 1ew York city, on the return of
said certificate, and which said certificate was received by
said Hood on behalf of himself and his associates as so much
cash."
Upon this and other evidence in the case, the counsel for the
defendants (the now plaintiffs in error) asked the court to inRtruct the jury, that if they should find, from the evidence,
that Hood was only authorized to use the note to borrow
money thereon for the joint benefit of himself and the other
makers thereof, and that at the time the plaintiffs, Woodward
& Dusenberry, received the same from Hood, and delivered to
him the certificate of deposit, they had notice that Hood so
held the note for the said purpose, then the plaintiffs were not
entitled to recover of the defendants; which instruction the
court refused to give, but did instruct the jury that the certificate of deposit so delivered to Hood was in effect money, and
came within the authority to borrow money. Exceptions

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

. 75

Boorman et aZ. v. Woodward et al.

ivere taken to the refusal to give the charge asked for, and to
the charge as given.
They claimed tbt the court erred, insisting that a certificate
of deposit is in no sense cash or money; it is simply an -aeknowledgment of a debt, with a promise of payment; that the
transaction between Hood ani Woodward & Dusenberry wak.
simply the exchange of one form of negotiable security for
another; and that this was clearly a breach of trust, and a perversion of the authority to use the note for the loan of money;
And they refer to the following authorities in support of this
position: Thorold v. Smith, 11 Modern, 71, 87; Bartlett v.
Pintland, 10 Barn. and Cress., 758; Atkins v. ONfen, 4 Ad.and Ellis, 819; Nightingale v. Devisone, 5 Burr., 2589. Here
'Woodward & Dusenberry had six thousand dollars in bank, or
a broker's office, and the cashier gave a certificate to that ef-.
feet, *andpromised to pay the money to the holder of the certificate who should present it. Hood could&have taken out
the money the next hour.
A certificate of this kind was a means of advance, that in all'
probabillity suited these borrowers, -who resided in Ohio, quite'
as well as. the gold or silver would have done. It was to the
same effect as if Hood had received the money, and deposited the specie, subject to his own check on the cashier
of -the bank. This certificate was actually paid in cash to
the agent of the parties to the- note, for such the bona jide
holder was.
, To maintain, as we are asked in effect to do, that a check on
a bank, payable at sight, to order, and endorsed in blank, and
which an agent, to raisemoney on negdtiable paper, took as'
money, and which check was presently.paid to a bona fide
holder by the cashier of the bank, was not money; that the
note or bill purchased was not sold for money; that no title
passed to the purchaser; and that the principal was not bound
by the contract of the agent, would be a startling doctrine in
the marts of commerce of this country, where money is usually
transferred by bank checks, and may be fairly presumed to
change hands on the check being given.
We order that the judgment be affirmed.

