SUPREME COURT.
Maguire v. Card.

contribution and general average arise, that the Federal courts
shall be obliged to deal incidentally with the subject, the question being influenced by the common peril in which all parties
in interest are concerned, and to which ship, freight, and cargo,
as the case may be, are liable to contribute their share of the
loss.
A small part of the goods in question in this case were
shipped for the port of Chicago, but are not of sufficient value
to warrant an appeal to this court.
The decree of the court below dismissing the libel affirmed.
Mr. Justice WAYNTE, Mr. Justice CATROK, and Mr. Justice GRIIER, dissented.
Mr. Justice DANIEL concurs in the decree for the dismission of the libel in this case, but not for the reasons assigned
by the court. It being my opinion, as repeatedly declared,
that the admiralty jurisdiction, under the Constitution of the
United States, is limited to the high seas, and does not extend
to the internal waters of the United States, whether extending
to different States or comprised within single States. If there
be any inefficiency in this view of the admiralty powers of the
Government, the fault is chargeable on the Constitution, and
on the want of foresight in those who framed that instrument,
and it can be legitimately remedied by an amendment of the
Constitution only.

THomS MAGUIRE, CLAIMANT OF THE STEAMER GoLIAX, APPEL.
LANT, V. STEPHEN CARD, LIBELLANT.
As this court has decided at the present term (see the preceding case of Allen v.
Newberry) that a contract of affreightment between ports and places within
the same State is not the subject of admiralty jurisdiction, so it, now decides
that a contract for suppliesfurnished to a vessel engaged in such a trade is
subject to the same limitation.
A rule in admiralty, adopted at the present term, takes -fromthe Distribt Courts
the right of proceeding in rem against a domestic vessel for supplies and repairs, which had been assumed upon the authority of a lien given by State
laws.

The reason of the rule explained.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

249

Maguire v. Card.

TBms case was brought up by appeal from the Circuit Court
of the United'States for the district of California.
It was a case in admiralty, which arose in this way:
C. IL & Villiam Garrison supplied the steamer Goliah
with coal, and then assigned the claim to Card. The lien held
by the Garrisons was created by the local law of California,
(sec. 317, p. 576, Compiled Laws.) The claimant excepted to
the libel, on the ground that the libellant was but the assignee
of those with whom the contract was made by the master of
the vessel, and that he had no lien. The District Court overruled this exception, and gave judgment in favor of the libellant; and this judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court, on
appeal. The vessel was engaged in trade exclusively within
the State of California.
It was argued in this court by Mr. Blair for the appellant,
and Mr. Doyle for the appellee.
Mr. Blair contended that an assignee had no right to sue
under the statute, and that the court below had no jurisdiction, because the assignee had no maritime contract with the
ship.
Mr. Doyle stated the questions to be1. Had Garrison & Co. a lien, orjus in re, on the boat ?2. Was that a lien capable of being assigned?
The precise question of jurisdiction, as decided by this court,
was not argued by the counsel on either side.
Mr. Justice NELSONT delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal froin a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the northern district of California, in admiralty.
The suit was a proceeding in rem against the Goliah, to recover the balance of an account for coal furnished the steamer
while lying at the port of the city of Sacramento, in the months
of October and NTovember, 1855. The vessel, according to the
averments in the libel, and which are not denied in the record,

250

SUPREME COURT.
Ataguire v. Card.,

was engaged in the business of navigation and trade on the
Sacramento river, exclusively within the State of California,
and, of course, between ports and places of the same State.
She was therefore engaged, at the time of the contract in
question, in the purely internal commerce of the State, the
contract relating exclusively to that commerce, and which
does not in any way affect trade or commerce with other
States.
The court has held, in the case of Rufus Allen et. al. v. H.
L. 1Newberry, at this term, that a contract of aflreightment between ports and places within the same State was not the subject of admiralty jurisdiction, as it concerned the purely internal trade of a State, and that the jurisdiction belonged to the
courts of the State. That case occurred upon Lake Michigan,
within waters upon which the jurisdiction of the court was
regulated by the act of Congress of the 26th February, 1845;
but the restriction of the jurisdiction by that act was regarded
by the court as but declaratory of the law, and that it existed
independently of that statute.
The contract in that case, as we have said, was one of affreightment between ports of the same State; but we perceive
no well-founded distinction between that and a contract for
supplies furnished the vessel engaged in such a trade. They
both concern exclusively the internal commerce of the State,
and must be governed by the same principles.
There certainly can be no good reason given for extending
the jurisdiction of the admniralty over this commerce. From
the case of Gibbon v. Ogden (9 Wheat., 194,) down to the
present time, it has been conceded by this court that, according to the true interpretation 6f the grant of the commercial
power in the Constitution to Congress, it does not extend to
or embrace the purely internal commerce of a State; and hence
that commerce is necessarily left to the regulation under State
authority. To subject it, therefore, to the jurisdiction in admiralty, would be exercising this jurisdiction simply in the
enforcement of the municipal laws of the State, as these laws,
under the conceded limitation of the commercial power, regulate the subject as completely as Congress does commerce

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

251

Bdcier et aZ. v. Lawrason.

"with foreign nations, and among the several States."

We

are speaking of that commerce which is completely internal,
and which does not extend to or affect other States, or foreign
nations.
We have at this term amended the 12th rule of the admiralty, so as to take from the District Courts the right of proceeding in rem against a domestic vessel for supplies and repairs which had been assumed upon the authority of a lien
given by State laws, it being conceded that no such lien existed according to the admiralty law, thereby correcting an
error which had its origin in this court in the case of the Gen.
Smith, (4 Wheat., 439,) applied and enforced in the case of
Peyroux and others v. Howard & Varion, (7 Peters, 324,) and
afterwards partially corrected in the case of the steamboat New
Orleans v. Phebus, (11 Peters, 175, 184.) In this last case, the
court refused to enforce a lien for the master's wages, though
it had been given by the local laws of the State of Louisiana,
the same as in the case of supplies and repairs of the vessel.
We have determined to leave all these liens depending upon
State laws, and not arising out of the maritime contract, to be
enforced by the State courts.
So in respect to the completely internal commerce of the
States, which is the subject of regulation by their municipal
laws; contracts growing out of it should be left to be dealt
with by its own tribunals.
For these reasons, we think the decree of the court below
should be reversed, and the cause remitted, with directions to
dismiss the libel.

Mr. Justice WAY1E dissented.

CHARLES BELCHER AND COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
GEORGE C. LAWRASON, COLLECTOR OF THE PORT OF ifEW
ORLEANS.
The eighth section of the act of Congress, passed in 1846, (9 Stat. at L., 42,)
exacting a penal duty of twenty per cent. when the appraised value of goods
imported exceeds the invoiced value by ten per cent., does not include the case
of an entry by a manufacturer who has produced the article imported.

