DO-EMMER TERM, 1858.
Sturgis v. Clough el aZ.

the courts as a contentious liigant; but as a great nations
acknowledging their obligation to recognise as valid every
authentic title, and soliciting exact information to direct their
executive Government to comply with that obligaion.
They bad instrumentalities adequate to the fulfilment of
their engagements without delay, wheneier their existence was
duly ascertained. There was no occasion for, the strict rules
of proceeding that experience has suggested to secure a speedy,
and exact administration between suitors of a differentcharacter. And it has rarely occurred that, the same case has reap-.
peared in the court after the first decree. If the litigation had
been other than it was, 'the rule of proPeeding would have va-"
ried with it.
But, after the authenticity of the grant is oscertained in this
court, and a reference has been made to the District Couit, to
determine'the external bounds of the grant, in order that the
final confirmation may be made, we cannot understand upon:
what principle an appeal cafi be claimed until the whole of the
directions of this court are complied with, and that decree made.
It would lead to vexatious and unjust delays to sanction such
a practice. It is the opinion of the court that this appeal was
improvidently taken and allowed, and must be dismissed; and
-that the District Court proceed to ascertain the external -lines
of the land confirmed to the 'apellee, and enter a final decree
if confirmatioh of that land.

RUSSELL STURGIS, LIBELLANT AND APPELLANT, V. JOHN CLOUGH,
ROBERT L.

MABEY,

'THE STEAMBOAT

AND

R. L.

HENRY M.

MABEY,

WEED, *CLAIMANTS OF

HER TAcKLE, &C.

Where two steam-tugs are approaching a vessel from different directions, in
order to secure the contract of towing her into harbor, the established rules are,
that the steamer which is following in the wake of the vessel should 'come up
on her starboard quarter and slack her engine, whilst the steamer which is approaching from the opposite direction -should round to, either to windward or
leeward, so as to head the same way is the vessel. -

SUPREME COURT.
Sturgis v. Clough et al.
In the present case, the evidence shows that the master and pilot of the last-men
tioned steamer were in fault by not conforming to the established rule, and
thereby caused the collision which ensued between the two steamers.

Tuis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United

States, sitting in admiralty, for the southern district of N'ew
York.
The facts in the case are set forth in the opinion of the
court.
The District Court dismissed the libel, each party paying his
own costs.
The Circuit Court affirmed this decree, and that the appellees recover of the libellant their taxed costs of appeal.
The libellant appealed to this court, where it was argued by
Mr. Benedict for the appellant, and' Mr. McZfahon for the appellee.
Mr. Benedict centended, amongst other points, that the evidence established the custom, that when tugs met a vessel, they
rounded to or went around her, so that the bows of the two
vessels would be in the same direction.
Mr. McMahon contended that the Hector was in the wrong,
because the rule is, that when vessels are approaching each
other under such circumstances, each should keep to the righit;
and if the Hector bad done so, no collision would have ensued.
These were only the main points in the arguments, which
branched out into marly other points.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The libellant in this case is owner of a steam-tug called the
Zachary Taylor, or Hector.
The claimants are owners of the steam-tug Mabey.
At the time of this collision, on the 11th of August, 1851,
they were both engaged in the business of towing vessels into
the port of lNew York from the neighborhbod of Sandy Hook.
The Hector was an old, heavy boat, some one hundred and
e ghty or cue hundred and ninety feet long; the Mabey a new,
:ght boat, of about one hundred feet in length, and much the
swifter of the twp, in the ratio of about fourteen to eight.

DECEMBER TEM , 1-858.
Sturgis v. Clo

453

et a.

They were each looking out for employment about noon of
that day, when the brig Wanderer was passing in, by Sandy
Hook, sailing sloAvly in a northwest course. The two steamtugs must have been some two-or three miles apart, when they
each -started for the brig in different directions, in order to
tender their services. Each boat put on all its steam, as the
first who could hail the brig would be entitled to the job.
The Hector, being in the rear, came up in the wake of the
brig, and nearly on her course. The Mabey came in S. S. E.
course, meeting the brig in an acute angle t6 its Course. As
they came together near the starboard quarter of the brig, their
respective distances from her at the time of starting must havd
been in the ratio of their velocities. The Mabey, being much
the fastest boat, no doubt expected to make up for this difference of distance by her superior fleeiness.
According to the established rules for .navigating boats under
such circumstances, the Hector, which was following in the
wake of the brig, -should come up on her starboard quarter,
and slack her engine, so as'not to pass the brig. The Mabey,
which was coming down in the opposite direction,'ought to
round to, either to windward or leeward, so as to head the same.
way as the brig. Had these well-known rules been observed,
no collision would have occurred in consequence of the race
for precedence.
Cases may occur in which two steamboats engaged in unlawful racing may reck~lessly or wilfully dash against each other;
and the courts, treating them both as criminals, may refuse to
sustain an action or decide which was most to blame, leaving
each to suffer the consequences of his own folly and recklessness..
We do not think thaf the testimony shows this to be such a
case. Each of Ihese boats had a right to move as fast as it
could in order to obtain. precedence; and each had a right to
expect that the other would pursue the customary ahd proper
course in navigating their vessels, in such circumstances, by
the observance of which there would be no danger of collision.
Have both these boats; in their anxiety for precedence, disregarded the prop.erprecautions to avoid a collision, or is the

SUPREME COURT.
Surgis v. Clough et al.

fault wholly to be attributed to the mismanagement of the
Mfabey?
The defence set up in the answer, that the Mabey "got to
the brig first, slacked her speed, slowed and stopped, and that
the Hector attempted to pass under the bows of the Mabey,
and in executing that manceuvre, with the covetous desire of
getting the right to tow the brig, she ran against the Mabey,
obliquely," &c., is clearly and satisfactorily proven to be not
true. The fact that the stem of the Mabey, the lighter and
swifter boat, was driven into the starboard bow of the Hector,
stripping -her guards down to the wheel, shows conclusively
that the Mabey was not stopped, but was under nearly full
headway.
If the collision had occurred as stated in the answer, the great
momentum of the larger boat would most probably have sunk
the smaller.
The witnesses on the Hector all concur' that, though the
engineer was directed to proceed with his utmost dispatch, the
Hector followed in the wake of the brig, and when near to her
had slacked her speed and stopped her wheel, so as to lap on
the stern of the brig as she came alongside of her starboard
quarter, and within twenty feet of her; and that she was nearly
at rest when the Mabey ran, with all her force, into the starboard bow of the Hector. As these witnesses are all confirmed
by the pilot of the brig, who was an impartial observer of the
whole transaction, his statement may be fairly taken as a correct representation of it.
He states that he first saw the Hector about a mile distant,
heading towards the brig, about northwest; that she came up
to the brig in about ten minutes, stopped her engine when she
came within one hundred to two hundred yards of the brig,
and then came alongside with the way she had on; and the
captain spoke to the witness. That the brig was going at the
rate of about.a mile an hour, and the Hector was dropping
astern, if anything, when the Mabey ran into her.
That, when he first observed the Mabey, she was about half
a mile off, coming southwest*or west-southwest; that she was
about an eighth of a mile from the brig when the Hector let

DECEMBER TERM,

~Sturgie v.

1858.

455

Clougi dt aL.

her steam off; that she continued her course till she struck the
starboard bow of the Hector, and ran into her forward of the
wheel-house;. that, when the pilot of the Mabey discovered
that he had run'his'boat so as to render a collision inevitable,
he ran out of the pilot-house and went aft; that the wheels
of the Mabey were in motion till the time of the collision;
that :the Hector could do. nothing to avoid the collision, because she had stopped her engine and was falling behind the
brig.
The master of the Hector acted on the supposition that the
Mabey, according to oustom, would round to, and could not
anticipate that, contrary to alLrule, she would run into the
Hector, as she lay nearly at rest, lapping on the stern of the
brig, when a single turn of her wheel, with her great headway,
would have -run her entirely clear of any danger of collision.
Hence, when his pilot told him the Mabey was coming in a
direction to run in-to him, he said, "No, she will go under our
stern." He presumed, and had a right to presume, that the
pilot of -the Mabey knew his duty, and intended to round to
behind the stern of the brig and tug, and not make the reckless attempt to.run between them.
The testimony of the pilot of the Mabey, in fact, confirms
this view of the case, and shows the collision to have been
occasioned entirely ly his own fault, or that of the master,
who directed him. He says, "My instruction was to run close
to the-brig's stern." The master says, 'SHe expected the Hector would get out of his way;" and the pilot says, "I supposed
she would go on the other quarter, or else steer outside of me."
Ii other words, he proceeded in a direction which he knew
must produce a collision unless the Hector would get out of
his way. It is clear that his intention was to drive the Hectoraway from the brig, or compel her to take the consequences.
The pilot admits, also, that he knew the proper way to approach the brig was by rounding to; which would not have
brought him within thiee hundred feet of the point of collision.
He admits, also, that he could have gone on either side of the
brig, and "knew it was nautical and customary to. come up on
the weather quarter, and to round to for a tow, but he had in.

SUPREME COURT.

456

Westrn Tdegra.ph Company v. Magnetic Tdegraap Company.

structions from the captain to go for the brig, and to get there
before the Hector if he could."

We are of opinion,*therefore, that the evidence clearly shows
that this collision was occasioned wholly through the fault of
,the master and pilot of the Mabey.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, with
costs, and the record remitted with instructions to enter a decree in favor of libellant, and have such further proceedings as
to justice and right may appertain.

THE WESTtRN TELEGRAPII COMPANY, APPELLANTS,
NETIC TELEGRAPH COMPANY AND ARUmAH

V. THE MAGS. ABELL AND ZE-

Nws BARNum.
Where there was a telegraph company from Baltimore to Wheeling,.with branches
to Washington and Pittsburg, and another company from Pittsburg to Philadelphia, and from Harrisburg to Baltimore; and the former c6mpany complained that the latter received messages at Philadelphia, sent from Pittsburg
ind.Wheeling, directed to Baltimore and Washington; and there was no di.
rect infringement of the patent right, nor any violation of a contract1 the case
is without a legal remedy.
Every person is at liberty'to use a circuitous route, if he prefers it to a shorter
route.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cornelius McLean for the appellants,
no counsel appearing for the appellee.
Mr. cM.Leai's points for the complainants and appellants
were the following:
1st. That they are, under their' assignment, entitled to all
the business between Wheeling and Pittsburg, and Washington and Baltimore.
The defendnts could not have set up a parallel line of telegraph between those points, and the question is simply whether

