7

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
oielZer _Niagarav. Cordes d al.

appellees that the schooner is responsible for failing to carry a
light. In the case of the Osmanli, (7 Notes of Cases, 507,) the
learned judge of the admiralty says: "That no question has
been more mooted and left more uisettled than this-whether
it is the duty of a sailing vessel at night to show a light.?
-Beyond all doubt, it has been determined there is no such general obligation, at the same time, there have been occasions
on which, for the sake of avoiding a misfortune, winch was in
all human probability likely.to occur, it became the duty of a
vessel to show a light." In the present case, -wehave not been
able to discover any fact that imposed the obligation upon the.
schooner to do so. The night was moonlight; and though the
light was occasionally obscured, the evidence does not show
that it was so, to a degree that rendered the navigation of the
bay at all dangerous, if care, skill, and vigilance, had been
employed upon the different vessels.
The court is of opinion that the schooner was discerned from
the steamer in sufficient time, and that the latter might have
avoided the collision by the exercise of proper care.
Decree affirmed.
Mr. Justice DAI-EL dissented, for want of constitutional
power in courts of the United Statts in admiralty.

THE PROPELLER NIAGARA, HER ENGINE, &c., ANSEL
AND

OTHERS,

CLAimANTS

AND

APPELLANTS,

R. COBB

V. JOSEPH H.

CORDES.

THE

PROPELLER lNIAGARA,

HER ENGINE, &C.,

ANSEL

R.

COBH

AND OTHERS, CLADIANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. LESTER SEXTON AND OTHERS.
Where a general ship, employed in navigating the lakes, receives goods under a
contract of shipment corresponding in terms to the usual bill of lading for the
transportation of goods on inland navigable waters, her liability must be determined. by the rules of law applicable to carriers of goods upon such inland
waters.
A common earner by water, as-on land; is responsible for every loss or damage,
however occasioned, unless it happenedby the act of God or the public enemy,

SUPREME COURT.
P)reller -iagara v. Cordes et aZ.
or by some other cause or-accident, without any fault or negligence on the part
of the carner, and expressly excepted in the bill of lading.
Amongst the duties imposed upon'carriers by water, one is to see that the vessel
is provided with a competent and skillful master.
The act of Congress, passed on the 3d of March, 1851, (9 Stat. at L., 635,) limiting the liability of ship owners, does not apply to the present case.
After a vessel is stranded, there is still an obligation upon the master to take all
possible care of the cargo. His duties in that respect are not vaned by that
event, and proof merely of reasonable care and diligence will not excuse hun
from liability.
Where a vessel put into Presque Isle at night, in a storm, upon Lake Huron, the
evidence does not justify this court in adjudging that the master could have
kept on his course, nor in holding the vessel responsible for an error in judgment in the master, m the measures which he adopted after he had succeeded
m entering the harbor.
But afteF the vessel was stranded, he was guilty of culpable negligence in not
protecting the cargo with sufficient care, and in returning home and allowing
the cargo to remain in the vessel during the remaining part of the winter, and
until a late.day in the-spring.
A master must not abandon his ship and cargo upon any grounds, so far as the
goods are concerned, when it is practicable for human exertion, skill, and prudence, to save them from the impending peril.,

THESE two cases were appeals in admiralty from the Distrct
Court of the United States for the district of Wisconsin.
Both cases were founded upon the same facts, winch are fully
stated in the opinion of the court.
In the first case, that of Cordes, the District Court decreed
that the libellant should recover $3,763.76, with costs, and in
the other case, that Sexton should recover $4,964.50, with
costs. The owners~of the propeller appealed -to this court in
both cases.

They were argued by .Mr Haven for the appellants, and by
Mr .ussefl for the appellees.
The evidence cannot be reported upon the questions of fact,
such as1. Whether the vessel was stanch, well manned, provided,
ad furnished.
2. Whether she was carefully and.properly stowed.
3. 'Whether she was too heavily loaded.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

9

.PrpellerI29agara v. Cordes e a7.

1 4. Whether there was a want of care or lack of judgment in
going into Presque Isle.
5. Whether the propeller was stranded by mere force of
winds and waves and dangers of navigation.
6. Whether the goods were wetted by the leak so produced.
After discussing these. questions of fact, as they appeared
from the evidence, the counsel for the appellants made the following point of law, viz.
Here, the appellants claim, the extraordinary liability of the
respondents as carriers ended, and a new rule of responsibility commenced. Their responsibility, after this period,.was
for damages arising from want of diligence and proper exertion towards saving and delivering the goods on board, and
the proper standard of diligence henceforwaid was "such a line
of conduct ds a prudent man of mtelligence would have observed m
talang care of hz own property similarly situated." This rule is
quoted from Smyrle v..Niolen, 2 Bailey S. Carolina Rep., 421,
cited in Angell on Carriers, sec. 187, p. 187.
Again. In cases of necessity or calamity during the voyage,
the master is by law created an agent from necessity, for'the
benefit of all concerned, and what he fairly and reasonably
does, under such circumstances, in the exercise of a sound discretion, binds all parties in interest in the voyage, whether
owners, or shippers, or -underwriters.
See Smith's Mercantile Law, 292, note and cases cited.
Abbott on Shipping, 453, at bottom, et seq., Story & Perkins's -edition.
1 Story C. 0. Rep., 342, 853.
2 Kent Com, 212.
5 Johnson's Rep., 262.
Searls & Adams v. Scoville, 4 Johnson's C. Rep., 218.
3 Robinson, 240.
1 Sakeld, case .34.
Miston v.. Lord, 1 Blatchford's Rep., 854.
A request and authority are necessarily implied, when the
master -exercises his discretion and judgment fairly.
*Douglassv. Moody, 9, Mass. Rep., 550.
7. With navigation closed, no ability to tranship, and noth-

SUPREME COURT.
Propdeler Mogara v. Cordes et al.

ing that could be done but keeping the goods at Presque Isle,
what was the duty of the respondents?
The answer is found in the case in 2 Bailey, 421, above cited.
Angell on Carriers, sec. 187.
Bowman v. Teal, 28 Wendell's Rep., 306.
Story on Bdilment, sees. 509, 512.
1 Gray's Rep., 268, and cases there cited.
8. By the discretion of Captain Mallon, Jones, his mate,
Captain Gibson, and Fargo, the goods were left on board, as
the best that could be done for them.
See authorities on last point.
9. The master could have done nothing else-no storage on
shore-could not get goods on shore-mode of stowagecrates--casks--dunuage below-well stored and full of aboveventilation, &c.
10. The propeller was got off at the earliest possible time in
spring, repaired, and the goods.delivered to the consignees.
11. The principle on which the extraordinary responsibility
of common carriers is founded does not require that that re
sponsibility should extend to the time occupied in transportation. That principle is the danger of robbery and embezzle.
ment by collusion or fraud on the pirt of the carrier.
Parsons v. Hardy & McCormick, 14 Wend., 215.
The principle does not extend beyond the ultimate delivery
of the goods, it does not extend to the condition in which
they are delivered, provided they are all delivered.
The carrier may excuse delay of delivery, by accident or misfortune, is decided in the case last cited, and why not excuse
injury by the same means, if by the ultimate delivery-they show
there has been no robbery or embezzlement by collusion or
fiaud?
Bowman v. Teal, 23 Wend., 806, 310.
See Forward v. Pittard, 1 Term Rep., 27, as giving reasons
on this point.
Story on Bailment, sees. 490, 509, 512.
MoHeiry v. Phila., Wil., and Balt. R.R. Co., 4 Harrington,
448.
12. When the goods are actualy delivered at the place of des-

DECE1tBER TERM, 1858.
Propeller

11

7

iagara v. Cordes d aL.

tination, and the complaint is only of a late delivery, tie -question is simply one of reasonablediligence, and accident or misfortune will excuse the carriers, unless they have expressly
contracted to deliver the goods within a limited time.
Wibert v. N. Y. and Erie R. R. Cd., 2 Kernan, 245-250,
citing Harmony v. Brigham, same book, p. 99..
Parsons v. Hardy, 14 Wend., 215.
Angell on Carriers, see. 213, and particularly note 2.
Same book, sees. 289, 328..
The argument and references made by the counsel for the
appellees, upon the questions of fact above stated, are.omitted.
The argument upon the point of law respecting the liability
of the master, after the vessel was stranded, was as follows:
The master was guilty of want of ordinary care of the interest
of the shippers, in deserting the vessel after she was stranded,
in making no efforts to remove the libellants' goods from their
place of stowage, either ashore, or to some part of the vessel
where they would have escaped damage by water.
1. The law is well settled, that it is the duty of the master
to adopt every reasonable and practicable method to take care
of the goods during such interruptions, by unlading and storing, to prevent wetting, and drying if already wet, so that his
contract to deliver. in good order may be fulfilled, and a peril
of the sea, imposing such duty upon him, will not be regarded
as the proximate cause of alleged damage, if he was' delinquent
in this regard.
Chouteaux v. Leach; 18 Pa. S. R., 224, 6 Harr., 224.
Bowman v. Teal, 23 Wend., 806.
'Shepherd v. King, B Story, 849.
The Barque Gentleman, Olcott,. 118.
Bird v. Cromwell, 1 Miss., 88.
Harrington v. Niles, 2 Nott and McCord, 88.
Fland. Mar. Law, 155.
S. B. Co. v. Beeson, Harper, 262
Marvin's Law of Wreck and Salvage, 21.
a. There is no variation m the duty or liability of the mastdr
and owners after stranding.
Abb. Shipp- 454 n. (1.)

12

SUPREME COTTRT
PropelerNiagarav. Cordes et al.

King v. Shepherd, 3 Story, 349.
Marvin's Law of Wreck and Salvage, 21.
b. The rule is analogous to that which, in Fran 3e and America, compels a master to preserve and tranship iL case of disabling.
Shipton v. Thornton, 9 Ad. and E., 314.
Tronson v. Dent, 36 Eng. L. and Eq., 41.
Hugg v. Ins. Co., 7 How., 604.
Saltus v. Ins. Co., 12 Johns., 107
Bryant v. Ins. Co., 6 Pick., 131, 1 Arnould, 187
By the English law, it is in the discretion of the master.
This exhibits the leamng of our law to hold the master strctly
c. Also to the rule in cases of salvage claimed by seamen,
(Hobart v. Drogan, 10 Pet., 127,) and- cases of capture, (Cheviot
v. Brooks, 1 Johns., 367)
2. No effort whatever was made to rescue the libellants' goods
from what was not only apparent and probable, but almost
certain, damage and destruction. And it does not lie in the
mouth of the appellants to say that, by possibility, the damage
might have happened even if they had resorted to any or all
expedients of prevention, in such cases of careless and cowardly abandonment, the law will presume that well-directed
efforts would have been successful.
Garrett v. Davis, 6 Bing., 716.
19 Eng. C. L., 714.
Williams v. Grant, 1 Conn., 492.
Fland. Shipp., 303, 261, 269, 199, n. (1.)
a. After the vessel began to make water,,tlie pumps were
used for an hour or two, until they were choked with Rand,
the wooden hand-pumps were in good order, but not used, the
m,aster was informed of the pumps of the Albany, near by, but
made no effort to procure them. It was apparent, at first, that
the water could have been lowered, so as to remove the goods
from the hold. The ice was about to form, evidently, strong
enough to admit of removal of goods over it. After the ice
went away, a bridge could have been built, or the scow could
have been used which was in the vicinity It is clear the
master felt satisfied on the question of. removal, or else he

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

13

Pripelr Nigarav. Cordes d l.

would not have looked for places to store the property on
shore.
If the master and mates had remained, it is evident they
might have taken out the perishable articles, fish, fruits, &c.,
and thus have prevented them from being essentially damaged
themselves, or at least from damaging the dry goods of Sexton. If a part had been removed, the remainder could have
been secured on the vessel.
To say the -very least, there is good reason, to believe that
the houses on shore, and the means of erecting more, might
have been used to afford safe storage on shore.
b. It is no reply to say that the master took advice of other
masters. It does not appear that they gave such advice with
any personal knowledge of the depth of the water, the mode
of stowage, the character of the goods, or any of the necessary
data. Gibson made no examination, the master and mate do
not agree as to the depth of the water; and the opinions of
advisers were doubtless based upon a false or imperfect statement of facts.
However, the advice of the best-informed men would make
no difference. It must be clear to th court that the master's
conduct was proper.
Tronson v. Dent, ubz supra.
Lawrence v. Minturn, ubt supra.
Marvin's Law of Wreck and Salvage, 20, 21.
c. The hatches were kept closed, although the liability of a
part of the cargo to decay was known, until the stench, in
March, compelled the keepers to open them, and all the damp.ness and filth of the hold was peirmitted to come in contact
with the dry goods of Sexton.
d. The master left on the third day, leaving no subordinate
officer with instructions, but taking those officere vith him,
and giving no orders to the keepers whatever.
e. Is not this question decisive "Would the master have
acted as. he did, if the goods had been his own?" There can
be but one answer; nor is there any doubt as to his dutv, as,
the agent of shippers, owners, and insurers, to take at least
such care as he would of his own goods.

SUPREME COURT.
Prolmlr Niagarav. Cordes et al.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
These are appeals in admiralty from the District Court of
the United States for the district of Wisconsin.
Libels were filed in these cases at a special term of the Distrct Court of the United States, begun and held at the city of
Milwaukie, on the first Monday of November, 1855. They
are drawn in the usual form of libels in rem, and respectively
allege a breach of contract of affreightment. Both suits grew
out of contracts for the transportation of goods by the steam
propeller Niagara, on her last trip during the season of 1854,
from the poit of Buffilo, in the State of New York, to Chicago,
in the State of Illinois. They were argued together in this
court, and it was conceded at the argument, by the counsel on
both -sides, that they depended substantially upon the same
state of facts. All the testimony respecting the liability of the
iteamer was fitst taken and filed in the case last named, and
was subsequently admitted and read in evidence at the hearing
an the other suit, under a stipulation of the parties, and the
pleadings are substantially the same in both cases. On the
part of the libellants, it is alleged, among other things, to the
effect that on or about the twenty-eighth day of November,
1854, the libellants caused certain goods, particularly described
in the respective libels, to be shipped in good order and condition on board the propeller Niagara, to be transported from
Buffalo to Milwaukie, in the State of Wisconsin; and that the
master, Hugh Mallon, received the goods on board, and in
consideration of certain freight, to be paid in that behalf by
the respective libellants, undertook and promised to convey
the goods from the port of shipment to the port of destination,
and there to deliver the goods, (the dangers of navigation, fire,
and collision, only excepted,) in like good order and condition
to the libellants or their respective agents.
And they further allege that the steamer .shortly thereafter
departed on her voyage, but that the master, not regarding his
duty, nor his promise and undertaking, (id not so convey the
goods, although no.danger of navigation, fire, or collision, prevented him from so doing, and thatthe goods, or a large portion of them, through the mere carelessness, negligence, and

DE CEMBER TERM, 1858.

15

Propellr WNkgara v. Cordes et al.

improper conduct, of the master, his manners, or servants, becamewetted, heated, or stained, and greatly damaged, or wholly
lost to the libellants. Answers in the usual form of pleading
were duly filed in each case on the twenty-fourth day of May,
1855, admitting the jurisdiction of the court, and setting up
substantially the same grounds of defence. They are alike in
all their material allegations, so far, at least as respects the
questions discussed at the bar, and all the matters involved in
the judgment of the court. In both cases the answers admit
the contract to transport the goods, as per bill. of lading, the
dangers of navigation, fire, and collision, excepted, and that
certain packages, under each of the contracts, were accordingly
shipped on board the steamer for that trip, leaving it to the
ibellants in each case to make such proof of the kind, quantity, and value of the goods, as-they might be advised was material, and aver that the steamer, when she departed on the
voyage, on the twenty-ninth day of lNovember, 1854, was tight,
stanch, seaworthy, and well manned, and that her entire cargo
was well, safely, and securely stowed. And the respondents,
denying every allegation in the libels, of carelessness, negligence, and improper conduct, on the part of the master and his
mariners, aver the fact to be that they were vigilant, competent, and skilful in the premises, and did what it-was their duty
to do under the circumstances in which they were placed.
They admit, also, that a part of the cargo was damaged, but
allege and insist that the damage was occasioned by a danger
of navigation within the exception of the bill of lading, for
wbnch they are not, and ought not, in any manner to be held
responsible. -Andthey further allege that the steamer was, by
stress of weather, compelled to make the Harbor of Presque
Isle, and by the snow and the force of the storm and wind,
which was very severe, the steamer dragged her anchor, went
ashore, and was dashed upon the beach, from which cause, and
the necessary detention of the goods on board, the damage,
whatever it is, occurred, and that in the month of May, 1855,
which was as soon thereafter as it was possible to repair the
steamer and for her to proceed on her voyage, the goods, or so
much-of them as belonged to the respective ibellants, were.

16

SUPREME COURT.
Propeller Ariagarav. Cordes et al.

transported to Milwaukie, and there delivered to them, and
were by them respectively received, with a full knowledge of
the damage, if any, and of its cause, and with an agreement
not only to share the damage, but that the goods should be
charged with and pay their proportion of a general average of
the losses thus occasioned, and the respondents claim that the
libellants, in each case, are liable "for a large amount of the
average and damage" to the steamer, which they aver to be
the sum of two thousand dollars.
This statement from the libels and answers embraces the
substance of the pleadings in both cases, so far as respects the
several matters discussed at the bar, and the real merits of the
Testimony was taken on both sides in the court
controversy
below, and after a full hearing a decree in each case was eiitered for the libellants, and the respondents appealed to tins
court. No additional testimony has been taken since the
appeal, and it seems to be conceded that the rights of the parties depend- chiefly upon certain questions of fact to be determined from the evidence, which is conflicting, and in some
particulars very contradictory That remark, however, applies
more particularly to -that part of the testimony which relates
to the conduct of the master after the steamer was stranded,
and the means at his command to secure and preserve the
goods from damage. Many of the facts and circumstances
connected with the voyage, as well as those attending the disaster, are involved in much less difficulty, and some of those
most material to be ascertained are satisfactorily proved, with-.
out any contradiction whatever. On the one side, no question
'is made that the goods were regularly shipped at Buffalo on
the twenty-eighth day of November, 1854, and on the other,
it is admitted that in the contract of ahipment the dangers of
navigation, fire, and collision, were duly excepted in the usual
form of such an exception in bills of lading. All of the goods
were shipped in good order and condition, and were to be delivered at Milwaunie, as alleged by the libellants. They consisted in the one case of groceries, and in the other of dry
goods, and it is conceded that they were carefully and properly stowed. On the day following the shipmentthe Niagara

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

It-

ropell"er WVkagara v. Cordzs et al.

left Buffalo, and proceeded on her intended voyage. She was
a steam propeller, of four hundred and ifty tons burden, and
at the time of her departure was a good, tight, stanch vessel,
every way suitable for the navigation in which she was engaged,
and was well furnished with ground tackle, including two
anchors and two chains. One of her anchors weighed fourteen
hundred pounds, with an inch and an eighth chain of. sixty
fathoms, and the other .weighed seven hundred pounds, with a
chain of the usual size and length. Her whole company consisted. of twenty-two men, constituting a full complement of
officers and crew for the voyage in a steamer of that description. iTaving proceeded on the usugl route for that voyage,
she arrived m Lake :uron on the second day of December, at
four o'clock in the morning, in perfect safety, and crossed Saginaw bay in the afternoon of the same day About eight
o'clock in the evening of that day, it commenced snowing, witla light wind, which by twelve o'clock at night freshened to E
gale, and the storm continued without any abatement, blowing
a heavy gale fiom a northeasterly direction, or east-northeast,
till the day after the steamer was stranded.
After crossing Saginaw bay, however, she continued, on her
regular course, and made Thunder-bay light at one o'clock,
and proceeding onward on her voyage, arrived off Presque Isle,
and made the light at that place at four o'clock in the morning, without having suffered any damage or met with any.-difficulty except that the master testifies-that she rolled heavily,
and that for a half or three-quarters of an hour before -hemade
the light, he had to keep her off her course two points, to ease
her in the sea. Her course from Thunder bay had been northnorthwest for a short time; then west by north, and then northwest; and the mate of the steamer testifies, that when they first
saw Presque Isle light, the steamer was a mile or two east ot
the light, and was in the usual course. At tJiat time she was
in no want either of wood or water, and it does not appear that
she was in any worse condition to proceed on the voyage, unless prevented by the storm, than at the moment when she left
the place of her departure. Her cargo was a general assortmend of merchandise, consisting of teas, sugars, coffee, fish,
VOL. xxL

2

SUPREME COURT.
-Propeler NAigara v. Cordes et al.

liquors, molasses, crates of crockery, bales of shecting, boxes
of dry goods; and various other articles, specified in the record.
All of the liquors, molasses, and some of the boxes, were
stowed on the ground-tier in the lower hold. Heavy goods
were placed at the bottom, and light goods on top, and the
hold was full, and battened down. Most of the light goods,
such as boxes of merchandise, teas, sugar in barrels, and bales
of sheeting, were on-deck, and there were some willow wagons
on the hurricane deck. None of her deck load had been
washed away or injured, and it does not appear that it had
been in any manner displaced or thrown into disorder by the
rolling of the vessel.
These considerations tend strongly to show that there could
not have been any urgent necessity to change the course of the
steamer on account of the violence of the storm or the motion
of the vessel, and, consequently, affect the credit of the master,
and corroborate the statement of the mate, that, at the time th'e
light was discovered, the steamer was pursuing her usual route.
Both the master and the mate were on deck when they made
the light, and the master gave the order to run into Presque
Isle. In entering the harbor, they steered west-southwest, and
then doubled inside of a small shoal round to the southeast, in
order to get to the pier. What purpose was to be accomplished
by getting to the pier, it is not easy to perceive, as the mate
testifies that they knew that the sea was so heavy that the
steamer could not lie at the dock.. They, however, came round
to the southeast, and so near to the pier that the mate says he
could seethe snow on the beach, and then let go the large
anchor, and the wind immediately caught the steamer on Nthe
larboard bow, and she commenced dragging the anchor.
When they found that the steamer dragged, and that there was
danger that she would go ashore, instead of casting the other
anchor, their first endeavor was to get rid of the one already
cast, in order, if possible, to work her off, and make another
effort to get up to the dock, and, finding that they could not
heave the chain w th the windlass, theii .. ext'effort was to slip
it; and while they were endeavoring to unsbackle the chain
the steamer struck, and went on to the be.Vh stern firsf,'and

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

19

PropellerIhiwgarav. Cordes et al.

immediately swung round broadside to the shore. No attempt
was made to let go the small anchor, although it was hanging
at the bow, and the mate admits that the steamer dragged more
than a quarter of a mile before she struck. They presently
tried the pumps, and it was found that she did not leak.
Shortly after, she commenced pounding, and it was then ascertained that she was making water freely, when they started
the engine-pumpi but it choked with sand, and they were
obliged to desist.. -At the place where the steamer lay the water
was seven or eight feet deep, and she filled to the lev6l of the
water outside in two or three hours, so that the water in the
hold 'was four or five feet deep above the top of the keelson. It was about five o'clock in the morning of the third
of December, 1854, that the steamer went on to the beach,
and the master and all hands remained on board till ten
o'clock in the forenoon, when he and the mate went on shore
for the purpose, as he testifies, of ascertaining whether. there
were any facilities for storing the goods, and whether it would
be possible to unload the steamer, and get her off. When he
got on shore, he found the steamer Plymouth, bound down
the lake, lying there, fastened at the dock; she having touched
at Presque Isle for wood four or five hours before the ariival
of the Niagara,.and remaining there on account of the storm.
laiug made certain inquiries of the residents, and consulted
with the master of the Plymouth, he came to the concq1usion
that it was the safest way to leave the goods on board, as more
of*them, in his judgment, would be protected in that mode
than by removing them on shore, and on the morning of the
sixth of December, the master, other officers, and all the crew
of the Niagara, except three, took passage m the Plymouth,
leaving the watchman, wheelsman, and porter, in. charge of the
steamer, with the hatches fastened down, and the goods in the
condition in which they were when the steamer was stranded.
During the night of the fourth of December, the storm subsided, but the following day was very cold, so that the steamers were frozen in, and persons walked on the ice from the
pier to the place were the Niagara lay, which was more thaL
a half milf It moderated, however, during'the night, and on

SUTPREME COURT.
Propeller Niagara v. Cordes el al.

the following morning the ice went out of the harbor, and twn
other steamers, the Republic and Kentucky, came in before
the Plymouth left, and the former took the place of the Plymouth at the dock after she started on her voyage down the
lake. Several witnesses testify-and among the number the
master of the Plymouth-that the sixth of December, the day
he left, was a fine day, although, he says, there was so much
ice abouthis boat, where she lay at the dock, that he had to cut
her out in the morning before he started.
One of the witnesses for the libellants, who resides at Presque
Isle, testifies, that after the P'lymouth left, it was clear, and
made ice, but did not blow, and that not long after there was
a thaw, which continued till the thirteenth of January, and
that after the thaw there were two or three weeks of very nice
weather. Navigation, however, closed in a few days after the
Plymouth left, and the Niagara remained on the beach, where
she was stranded, until the mate, who is now the master of the
Niagara, returned to Presque Isle, on the twenty-seventh day
of April, 1855. When he returned, he found her where he
left her, in charge of the watchman. He immediately pumped
her out with a steam-pump, according to his account, and
lightened her off with a steamboat, and, after she was lightened, got the steamboat to take her up to the dock, where he
removed the residue of the goods, and then took her to Detroit and had her repaired. After she was repaired, he returned to Presque Isle, in the month of May, 1855, and conveyed the goods, or so much of them as had not been destroyed,
to the place of destination. Some of the goods were in good
condition or were slightly injured, while others were greatly
damaged or wholly worthless. Those stowed below had remained entirely without ventilation from December to March,
and then the hatch at midships only had been opened. They
were heated, discolored, and stained, and one of the witnesses
testifies that sugar, coffee, and dried fruit, were all soaked together, and that the water pumped up was dark, exhibiting
the appearance of the soakings of coffee and codfish, and that
the goods had the offensive smell of dead water. They were
taken out about the first of May, so that those stowed in the

DMEOEM3BER TERM, 1858.

S1

Propeller.riagara v. Cordes ed al.

Lower hold, not more than four or five feet above the keelson,
had been submerged in bilge-water for nearly five noiiths, and,
some of those above the water had been moistehed by the
dqmpness and become mouldy. Dainages to the amount of
taree thousand seven hundred ahd sixty-three dollars and
seventy-six ceAts werAe allowed by i*e,district judge, in the case
first named, and in theother, four th'busand nine hundred and
sixty-four .dollars and thirty cehts, and it isnot pretended in
the argument that the respective amounts were either extravagant or unreasonable. It is not upon any such ground Ihat the
appellants seek to reverse the respective decrees in the court
below They'deny that they are. liable at all for any amount,
and set up the first exception in the contract of shipment or
bill of lading, and their counsel insist upon the following propositions:
I. That the damage to the goods resulting from the stranding of the steamer wfs wholly occasioned by the dangers of
navigation, the risk of which was not taken by the master or
owners of the steamer.
II. That after the Niagara was stranded and filled with
-water, and disabled from proceeding on her voyage, the appellants were responsible only for the ultimate delivery of the
goods, and for reasonable care in preserving them from the
effect of storms, bad air, leakage, and embezzlement.
III. That the master, after the steamer was stranded, and
the goods wetted, became and was the agent of the shippers of
the goods as well as of the owners of the vessel, and as such,
utflder the circumstances of this case, is responsible only for
due and proper care and diligence, and that it cannot be successfaully contended, from the evidence, that such care and diligence were not qxercised.
These propositions, whether taken separately or collectively,
necessarily involve mixed questions of law and fact, which in
a ease like the present must be determined by the court, acting instead of a jury, to find the facts, and as a; court to determine the law Such propositions, therefore, must be considered in connection with all the legal evidence exhibited in the
record, and their accuracy must be tested by the true state of

SUPREME COURT
PropellerNiagarav. Cordes et aZ.

the facts as found by the court from the evidence, and by the
rules of law applicable to that state of the case. According to
the admitted or undisputed facts of the case, the Niagara was
enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, and was employed
by the owners in transporting goods, under contracts for
freight, upon navigable waters between ports and places in
different States, and at the time of the disaster she had a
full cargo of merchandise, of various descriptions, on -board,
consigned to merchants or parties residing either -at her port
of destination or at Milwaukie, and other intermediate ports or
places along the course of her voyage. She was a general ship,
laden with goods to be transported for hire, and the goods in
question having been received and taken charge of, as goods
under a contract of shipment, corresponding in terms to the
usual bill of lading for the transportation of goods on inland navigable waters, the question of liability in this case must be determined by the rules of law applicable to carriers of goods upon
such inland waters. A common carrier is one who undertakes
for hire to transport the goods of those who may choose to employ him from place to place. ie is, in general, bound to take
the goods of all who offer, unless his complement for the trip is
full, or the goods be of such a kind as to be liable to extraordinary danger, or such as he is unaccustomed to convey Tu
all cases where there is no special agreement to the contrary,
lie is entitled to demand the price of carriage before he receives
the goods, and if not paid, he may refuse to receive them, but
if he take charge of them for transportation, the non-payment
of the price of carriage in advance will not discharge, affect,
or lessen his liability as a carrier in the case, and he may afterwards recover the price of the service performed. When he
receives the goods, it is his duty to take all possible care of them
in their passage, make due transport and safe and right delivery of them at the time agreed upon, or, in the absence of any
stipulation in that behalf, within a reasonable time. Common
carriers are usually described as of two kinds, namely, carriers
by land and carriers by water. At common law, a carrier by
land is in the nature of an insurer, and is bound to keep and
carry the goods intrusted to his care safely, and is liable for all

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

23

Propeller Niagara v. Cordes et al.

losses, and in all events, unless he can prove that the loss happened from the act of God, or the public enemy, or by the act
of the owner of the goods.
Common carriers by water, like common carriers by land,
in the absence of any legislative provisions prescribing a different rule, are also, in general, insurers, and liable in all events,
and for every loss or damage, however occasioned, unless it happened b.y the act of God, or the public enemy, or by some other
cause or accident, without any fault or negligence on the part
of the carrier, and expressly excepted in the bill of lading. A
carrier's first duty, and one that is implield by law, when he is
engaged in transporting goods by water, is to provide a seaworthy vessel, tight and stanch, and well furnished with suitable tackle, sails, or motive power, as the case may be, and
furniture necessary for the voyage. She must also be provided
with a crew, adequate in number and sufficient and competent
for the voyage, with reference to its length and other particulars, and with a competent and skilful master, of sound judgment and discretion, and, in general, especially in steamships
and vessels of the larger size, with some person of sufficient
ability and experience to supply his place temporarily, at least,
in case of his sickness or physical disqualification. Owners
must see to.it that the master is qualified for his situation, as
they are, in general, in respect-to goods transported for hire,
responsible for his acts and negligence. He must take care
to stow and arrange the cargo, so that the different goods may
not be injured by each other, or by the motion of the vessel, or
its leakage; unless, by agreement, this duty is to be performed
by persons employed by the shipper. In the ibsenceof any special agreement, his duty extends to all that relates to the lading,
as well as the transportation and delivery of the goods, and
for the faithful performance of those duties the ship is liable,
as well as the master and owners. A clean bill of lading, in
general, imports, unless the contrary appear on its face, that
the goods are-to be safeIy and properly secured under deck.
(Fland. on Ship., see. 192.)
In the case of a parol shipment, the master is allowed to show
a local custom to carry the goods on deck in a particular trade.

SUPREME COURT.
Propeller Ataara v. Cordes et al.

It must, -however, be a custom so generally known and recognised, that a fair presumption arises that the parties in entering
into the contract agreed that their rights and duties should be
regulated by it. Having r6ceived the goods for transportation,
in the absence of any stipulation as to the period -of sailing,
the master must commence the voyage within a reasonable
time, without delay, and as soon as the wind, weather, and
tide, will permit. After having set sail, he must proceed on the
voyage, in the direct, shortest, and usual route, to the port of
delivery, without unnecessary devidion, unless there has been
an express contract as to the course to be pursued, and where
the vessel is destined for several ports and places, the master
should proceed to them in the order in which they are usually
visited, or that designed by the contract, or, in certain cases,
by the advertisement relating to the particular voyage. A deviation from the direct route may be excusable if rendered
necessary to execute repairs for the preservation-of the ship,
or the prosecution of the-voyage, or to avoid a storm, or
an enemy, or pirates, or for the purpose of obtaining neces-sary supplies of water and provisions, or, in the case of a
steamer, t obtain necessary supplies of wood or coal for the
prosecution of the voyage, or for the purpose of assisting another vessel in distress.
As agent of the owner, the master is-bound to carry the goods
to their place of destination in his own ship, unless he is prevented from so doing by some cause arising from irresistible
force, over which he has no control, and which cannot be
guarded against by the watchful exertions-of human skill and
prudence. When the vessel is wrecked or otherwise disabled
in the course of the voyage, and cannot..be repaired without
too great delay and expense, he is at liberty to tranship the
goods and send them for~vard so as to earn the whole freight;
and if another vessel can be had in the same or a contiguous
port, or at one within a reasonable distance, it becomes his
duty under such circumstances to procure it and transport the
goods to their place of destination, and in that event he is en
titled to charge the goods with the increased freight arising
from the hire of the vessel so. procured. That rule, however,.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Propeler2'tagarav. Cordes et aZ.

is not obligatory in cases where the goods are not perishable,
provided the ship can be repaired in a reasonable time. 1n
that state of the case he may, if he deems it best, retain the
goods until the repairs are made, and'forward them in his own
vessel, and upon the same principle, and for the same end, if
he have no means to tranship the goods, it is his duty to repair
his own vessel, when capable of being repaired, provided it
can be done within a reasonable time, and he has the means at
his command, and if not, and the means cannot be obtained
from the owner, or upon the security of the ship, he may sell
a part, or hypothecate the whole, and apply the proceeds to
execute the repairs, in order that he may be enabled to resume
the voyage and carry the goods, or the residue, as the case may
be, to the place of 'destination, and he is not entitled to recover
for freight if he refuses to tranship the goods, unless he repairs
his own vessel within a reasonable time, and carries them on
to the place of delivery. Most of the rules of law prescribing
the duties of a carrier for hire, and regulating the manner of
their exercise, have existed for centuries, and they cannot be
modified or relaxed except by the interposition of the legsla
ive power of the Constitution. Time and experience have
shown their value and demonstrated their utility and justice,
and they ought not and cannot be changed by the judiciary
Some new paid important provisions have been introduced into
the law of carriers by water, by the act of the third of March,
1851, entitled "An act to limit the liability of ship-owners."
Owners of ships under that act are not held liable for loss or
damage to the cargo by reason of fire happening to or on board
the vessel, unless the fire was caused .by the design or neglect
of such owner, except in cases where there is a special contract
between the owner and the shipper, whereby the former assumes
that risk. They are declared not liable.as carriers for precious
metals, precious stones, or jewels, or for the bills of any bank
or public body, unless at the time of their lading a note in
writing of their true character and value be given to the
owner or his agent, and the same be entered on the bill of
lading; and in no case where that act applies will the owner
be liable for the articles therein enumerated beyond the amouut

SUPREME COURT.
Pro eller Niagara v. Cordes "elal.

so notified and entered. It contains other provisions also of
very great practical importance, and among the number the
following- That for embezzlement, loss, damage, or injury by
collision, or for any act, matter, or thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture done, occasioned, or incurred, without the privity or
knowledge of the owner, his liability shall in no case exceed
the amount or value of his interest in the vessel and the freight
then pending. iNo part of the act, however, applies to the
owner of any canal boat, barge, or lighter, or to any vessel of
any description whatsoever used in rivers or inland navigation.
A question may arise, whether the lakes bordering on a foreign j urisdiction are or are not excluded from the operation of
the act under the term inland navigation, but it is not necessary at the present time to determine or consider that.question,
as the first exception in the contract of shipment is the only
one set up in this case, and there is no pretence that there has
been any transfer of the steamer under the fourth section of
the act for the benefit of the libellants.
Carriers by water are liable at common law, and independently of any statutory provision, for losses arising from the acts
or negligence of others, to the same extent and upon the same
principles as carriers by land-that is to say, they are in the
nature of Insurers, and are liable, as before remarked, in all
events, and for any loss, however sustained, unless it happen
from the act of God, or the public enemy, or by the act of the
shipper, or from some other cause or accident expressly excepted in the bill of lading. Duties remain to be performed
by the owner, or the master as the agent of the owner, after
the vessel is wrecked or disabled, and after he has ascertained
that he can neither procure another vessel nor repair his own,
and those, too, of a very important character, arising immediately out of his original undertaking to carry the goods safely
to their place of destination. His obligation to take. all possible care of the goods still continues, and is by no means discharged or lessened, while it appears that the goods have not
perished with the wreck, and certainly not where, as in this
case, the vessel is only stranded on the beach. Such disasters
are of frequent occurrence along the seacoast m certain seasons

.DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

2T

Proyeller A-iagarav. Cordes el al.

of the year, at well as on the lakes, and it cannot for a moment
be admitted that the duties and liabilities of a carrier or master
are variea, or in any manner lessened, by the happening of
such an event. Safe custody is as much the duty of a carrier
as conveyance.and delivery; and when he is unable to carry the
goods forward to their .place of destination, from causes which
he did not produce, and over which he has no control, as by
the stranding of the vessel, he is still bound by the original
obligation to take all possible care of the goods, and is responsible for every loss or injury which might have been prevented
by human foresight, skill, and prudence. An effort was made
by able counsel, in King v. Shepherd, (8 Story 0. C., 358,) to
maintain the proposition, assumed by the respondents in this
case, that the duties of a carrier after the ship was wrecked or
strandhd were varied, and therefore that he was exempted from
all liability, except for reasonable diligence and care in his
endeavors to save the property Judge Story refused to sanction the doctrine, and held that his obligations, liabilities, and
quties, as a common carrier, still continued, and. that he was
bound to show that no human diligence, skill, or care. could
save the property from being lost by the disaster. Anything
short of that requirement would be inconsistent with the nature
of the' original undertaking, and the meaning of the contract,
as universally understood in courts of justice. Admit the
.proposition, and it is no longer true that, where there is no
provision in the contract of affreightment- varying the liability of the carrier, he cannot relieve himself from liability
for injuries to goods intrusted to his care, except by proving.
that it was the result of some natural and inevitable necessity
superior to all human agency, or of a force exerted by a public
enemy Kent, Chief Justice, said, in Elliott v. Russell, (10
Johns., 7,) decided in 1813, that it has long been settled that
a common carrier warrants the delivery of the goods in all but
the excepted cases of tbe act of God and public enemies, and
there is no distinction between- a carrier by land and a carrier
by water; and the same learned judge also held that the chaij
acter, duty, and responsibility of a carrier continues fo.attaclr
to a master as long as he has charge of the goods. A ndaster,

SUPREME COURT
PropellerNiagarav. Cordes et al.

says a learned commentator, should always bear in mind that
it is his duty to convey the cargo to its place of destination.
This is the purpose for which he has been intrusted with it, and
this purpose he is bound to accomplish by every reasonable and
practicable method. Every act that is not properly and strictly
in furtherance of this duty is an act for which both he and his
owners may be made responsible. His duties as carrier are
not ended until the goods are delivered at their place of destination, or are returned to the possession of the shipper, or kept
safely until the shipper can resume their possession, or they
are otherwise disposed of according to law (King v. Shepherd, 8 Story C. C., 849, Abbot on Ship., 8th ed. Perk., 478.)
These authorities are sufficient, it is believed, to demonstrate
the proposition, that where a loss or damage is shown, it is
incumbent upon the carrier to bring it within the excepted
peril in order to discharge himself from responsibility It is
not sufficient, without more, to show that the vessel was
stranded, to bring the goods within the exception set up in this
case. Had the goods perished with the wreck, it would be
clear that the loss was the immediate consequence of the stranding of the vessel, and assuming that the disaster to the vessel
was the result of the excepted peril, or of some natural and
inevitable accident, then the carrier would be discharged. All
the evidence, however, in this case, shows the fact to be otherwise, that the goods did not perish at the time the steamer
was stranded, and the damage having since occurred, the rule
of law to be ascertained is the one applicable in cases where
the injury complained of arises subsequently to the disaster to
the vessel. Such interruptions to a voyage are of frequent
occurrence, and the rule of law is just and reasonable which
holds that the master is bound to the utmost exertions in his
power to save the goods from the impending peril, as it is no
more than a prudent man would do under like.circumstances.
In great dangers great care is the ordinary care of prudent
men, and in great emergencies prudent men employ their best
exertions, so that the difference in the rule contended for, and
the one here laid down, is much less than at first appears.
Nevertheless there is a difference, and in a question of so much

DEGEMBER TER1M, 1858.

29

.Propeller.iagara v. Cordes et al.

practical importance it is necessary to adhere strictly to the
correct rule. Losses arising from the dangers of navigation
within the meaning of the exception set up in this case arc not
such as are in any degree produced fiom the intervention of
man. They are such as happen in spite of human exertions,
and which cannot be prevented by human skill and prudence.
When such efforts fail to save the goods from the excepted
peril, the ultimate loss and damage in judgment of law results
from the first cause, upon the ground that when human exertions are insufficient to ward off the consequences, the excepted
peril may be regarded, as continuing its operation. Such, it is
believed, is the nature of the contract between a carrier and
.shipper, so far as it becomes necessary to examine it in the
cases under consideration. Cawrriers may be answerable for
the goods, although no actual blame is imputed to them, and.
after the damage is established, the burden lies upon the respondents to show that it was occasioned by one of the perils
from which they are exempted in the contract of shipment or
bill of lading. (Clarkv. Barnwell, 12 How., 272, Rich v. Lambert, 12 How., 347, Chitt. on Carriers, 242, Story on Bail,
sees. 528, 529 ; 3 Kent Com., 213, 1 Smith Lead. Cases, 313,
Choteaux v. Leech et al., 18 Penn., 233, Fland. on Ship.,
see. 257, Marvin on Wr. and Salv., 21, Parsons's Mer. L., 348,
Smith's Mer. L., 3d ed., 386.)
Applying these principles of law in the consideration of the
case, we will proceed to a brief review of the evidence, in connection with, that already given, bearing upon the questions of
fact presented for decision. It has already appeared that the
steamer made the light at Presque Isle on the third day of
December. 1854, at four o'clock in the morning. At that time
she was on the usual course, and was heading northwest. She
had met with no difficulty up to that time, and was tight,
stanch, and strong, and in no want either of wood or water.
Her master says, however, that he found it would be a great
risk to haul her off to-get round the point, doubtless referring
to his previous statement that he had kept her off her course
to ease her in the sea. She was then sailing northwest, and
her course up to the straits would have been, as the witnessea

SUPREME COURT.
PropellerIagarav. Vurde- et. al

say, either west-northwest, or northwest by west half west,
and there is no difference of opinion among them that the
course was direct and the wind was a fair wind for steamers,
and one witness says that in a conversation with the mate,
while he was at Presque Isle, he heard him say that they need
not have entered the harbor. All or nearly all the witnesses
agree that there is no difficulty in entering that harbor in the
daytime, and tnat the anchorage, though rather limited in
space, is safe and quite good just northwesterly of the end of
the pier and out towards the light-house, and that the harbor
affbrds a good shelter to vessels in a storm, except when the
wind is blowing from a northeasterly direction or east-northeast,
and then that its course is directly into the harbor, which fact
must have been well known to the master and mate at the time
they decided to make the attempt. Many of the witnesses say
that it is more difficult to go in during the night, and several
testify positively that it is dangerous, and some of the more
experienced navigators say they would not risk the attempt in
a-dark night. One witness, the master of the Plymouth, called
by the respondents, testified that the steamer did not come
right in, that she broache.d to so near the mouth of the harbor. that she was detained at least a quarter of an hour. She,
however, succeeded in entering the harbor, and cast her anchor
as before stated. Four experienced navigators testify to the
effect. that she should have kept on her course, that it was not
proper to enter the harbor. On the other side, one witness
says, that whether it was good seamanship or not would depend
upon the position of the vessel, and that if she was near in,
he thinks it. was prudent, and that he should have entered.
Another says that if he had considered either vessel or cargo
in danger, he should have gone in by all means, and the mate
says that they concluded that it was better to go in. One witness, called by the libellants, says he heard the mate -say,after
the disaster, that it was unnecessary
These are the principal facts bearing upon the question,
whether the master exercised a sound judgment and discretion
in entering the harbor. Most of the facts in evidence respectnig the acts of the master after he entered the harbor, as they

DECEM2BER TERM, 1858.

31

Fropellcr Niagara v. Cordes ed al.
appear to the court, have already been stated, and need not be
repeated. Experts were called and examined upon the question whether the master evinced proper skill and. judgment
in the attempt he made to anchor, and on that point tnree or
four witnesses, who are experienced navigators, were called
and examined by the libellants. They testifyto the effect that
a master of a steamer about to enter a harbor under the cir.
cumstances of this case ought to have both anchors ready, so
that if one will not hold the vessel, he can cast the other; and
they express the opinion that such. precautionary steps are no
more than ordinary prudence, and one of them says that it is
customary to let go the small anchor first, and if thatwill not
hold, then to let go the, large -anchor. On the other side, the
mate of the steamer testifies that they had not time to let go
the small anchor; and another witness expresses the opinion,
that if the large anchor and the engine would not hold, thenthere was nothing that could be done,. and the master of the
Plymouth says that he knows of nothing else that could have
been done, except to cast the anchor.
lumerous witnesses were examined on the question whether
it was practicable to have removed the goods and stored them,
and whether, if it had been done, it would have afforded any
better protection to tle goods. On this point the testimony
of the witnesses is very conflicting. All~that can be done is
to state the prii cipal facts, as they appear to the. court.
Nineteen men were residing at Presque Isle at the time of
the disaster, mostly temporary residents,'in the'employment
of Frederick Barnham, a witness for the respondents. There
were four dwelling-houses there in which people lived, and two
unoccupied, and there were two barns and a vacant shop; all
or nearly all the dwellings were built of logs, and were rudely
finished. Three of those dwellings were within a half mile
of the place where the steamer lay, which was within a
quarter of~a mile-of a road extending round on the beach
from the pier, where the Plymouth lay, with her officers, and
crew on -board. Several days previously, the steamer Grand
Turk had been wrecked, twelve miles distant from Presque
Isle, and her officers and'crew werethere, consisting In all of

SUPREME COURT.
Propeller Niagara v. Cordes et al.

eight or nine men. There was a large scow in the harbor, in
good order, anchored near the pier, and not in use, which several witnesses testify might have been obtained to lighten the
steamer; and one witness testifies that the same scow was used
by the mate in the spring following to carry the goods from
the steamer to the dock, before The was taken off by the tug.
:Nine pumps, such as are used on board vessels, and brought
up to use on the other disabled steamer, were lying on the
beach, within a half mile. All the witnesses agree that the
imiaster of the Niagara never applied to any one of them for
any assistance, either in respect to the goods or.the steamer;
and the mate admits that they had made up their minds to
leave, the evening of the day after the disaster. Some of the
witnesses offered assistance, and it was declined. Courtwright
testifies that he heard a conversation between the master and
the mate, in presence of fifteen or twenty persons, in reference
to taking out the cargo of the steamer. The mate said to the
master tjiat they could get the goods out of the steamer, and
get her alongside of the dock; to which the master replied,
that it was too late in the season to do anything with her;
that he was bound to go home, that he would not stop there
for the steamer and all that was in her. Other declarations of
the master, equally expressive of his determination to return
home, are also in evidence, and being a part of the res gestae,
are clearly admissible to explain the motives of the master, in
connection with his acts. Many witnesses on the side of the
respondents express the opinion that the goods could not have
been removed, and an equal or greater number called by the
libellants express a contrary-opinion, and suggest varioas modes
by which it might have been accomplished in a very short
time. Such opinions, however,, cannot have much weight in
determining the question. Oneimportant fact is clearly proved,
namely, that the ice went outof the harbor the night before
the Plymouth left, and it was mild weather after that; for the
most part, till near the middle of January, 1855.
Our conclusions upon these several questions may be briefly
stated. In respect to the one first presented, it is proper to
remark that it depends upon the .proof whether the act of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

33

P qpe r Nagara v. Cordes et al.

master, in seeking shelter in the harbor, was reasonably necessary; and if it was, then he is not in fault on that account.
None of the circumstances exhibit such clear and decisive indications as would justify the conclusion that he did not think
at the time that it was the most expedient course to be pursped. That he was without much experience as a master of a.
steamer of this description, does not seem to be denied, and
it is equally clear that he had a strong preference for a sailing
vessel, as is made evident by his own remarks, as well as in
another fact proved in the case, that he has resumed his more
favorite employment upon the water, for which, perhaps, he is
better qualified than for the.one in which he was then engaged.
He says, in effect, that he found it would be dangerous to proceed.on-the voyage, and the mate says they concluded that it
would be better to go- into Presque Isle, and on- their own
opinions thus expressed, and the proofs as to'the violence of
the storm, his vindication mainly rests. Strong doubts are
entertained whether. he acted wisely in departing from the
course of the voyage, and yet 'the evidence is not so full and
clear in the ease as to induce the court to place the -dcyision
upon that ground. Whatever dangers there were in entering
the harbor, he succeeded in surmounting, and he cannot be
held responsible for any accident which did not happen. Mas'ters have a right, and oftentimes it is their duty, to seek shelter from a storm; and the fact that it wotil& have been better
to hav6 kept on the course, may be more apparent now than it
could have been to any one at the time. Something must be
deferred to the judgment and discretion of the master. on, such
occasions, so that although the circumstances tend strongly to
prove that he misjudged, or was.wantin*g in that fearless, prudent energy which he ought to have displayed, still they are
not of that decisive character which incline the court to make
the decision turn upon that ground, and the same remarks
also apply to his acts, and endeavors to anchor'the -steamer.
after he entered the harbor. Knowing, as he did, that the
wind was blowing directly into the harbor, it is difficult to see
why it was that he-brought the steamer round to the position
m the wind, so as to expose her to the danger which finally
VOL. XXL
3

34

SUPREME COURT.
Propeler NIVZara v. Cordes etal.

overcame his efforts to accomplish the purpose for which he
says he sought the harbor. Ie knew the course of the wind
and the difficulties of the undertaking before he entered, and
ought to have been prepared to encounter them with the best
precautions in his power to make. When he found that the
anchor dragged, a great majority of te witnesses say he ought
to have let go the other. His own description of what took
place on the deck of the steamer after she-entered the htrbor,
as well as that given by the mate, evinces an.indecision and
want of energy quite unsuited to the emergency in which he
was placed, and tends stronglyto show that he was wanting in
the proper qualities of a skilful and well-instructed master.
These considerations create strong doubts in the mind of the
court, whether the respondents are faultless in this particular,
and yet the court is disinclined to place the decision entirely
on that ground, as several witnesses, of some nautical skill,
have testified that they are unable to see that anything more
could have been done.
On the remaining ground of complaints against the master,
we are all of the opinion that he was guilty of gross negligence.
His steamer lay within ten or fifteen rods of the beach, and
within a little more than a half mile of the settlement, the
number of whose.residents was temporarily augmented by the
presence of the officers and crewcif the steamer Plymouth and
those of the Grand Turk; and yet all he did, so far as appears,
to secure or recover the large amount of property he had on
board, was to go on shore, consult with one or more of the residents, advise with the master of the Plymbuth, and then. came
to the conclusion that nothing could be done, and that it was
best to leave the goods on board, under the charge of three of
his crew He remained, however, for two- or three days, until
the storm had subsided and the weather had moderated, and
after two other steamers had arnved in the harbor, he took
passage on the Plymouth, and. returned -home, without having
made any effort himself, or requested the aid of others, either
to get off the steamer, orto remove and store the goods. We
are satisfied from the evidence that the goods might have been
removed between -the time he left and the middle 6f January,

DECEM1B ER TERM, 1858.

35

Unwn Lzsurance Cotapajv. Hoge.

and we are not satisfied that it could not have been done or
successfully commenced during the time he remained in
Presque Isle. A removal of a part would have enabled him
to protect the residue on board, and there is no sufficient
ground fiom the evidence to conclude that he would have encountered any serious difficulty in finding places enough for
storing to have enabled hin to remove from the steamer all of that
class of goods exposed to damage, and store them on shore.
At that time the goods had not received any considerable injury, and most of them, in all probability, none whatever.
Prompt attention would have saved the property and protected
the shipper from loss. It must not be understood that a master can abandon his ship and cargo upon any such grounds as
are proved by the evidence in this case, or, indeed, upon any
other, so far as the goods are -concerned, when it is practicable
for human exertionsY skill, and prudence, to save them from
the impending peril.
This view of the evidence renders it unnecessary to consider
the other grounds of defence set up by the respondents.
The decrees, therefore, of the District Court in the respective cases.are affirmed, with costs, in each case for the libellants.

THE U0wiox INSURAN CE COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN
BLAIR HOGE.
Under a general act of the Legislature of New York, passed on the 10th of'
April, 1849, which apthorized the incorporation of insur nce compames in the
State under it held that the eighth section in the charter of a mutual insurance
company formed under the general aet, which provided for the payment of
cash premiums, at the election of the insured, as well as premiums secured by
notes, was authorized by the general act, and that a policy issued upon a payment of the premium m cash was legal and valid.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States -for the northern -district of New
York.
It was an action brought by Hoge upon a policy of insurance
upon a paper-mill in Virginia. The insurance company were

