SUPREME. COURT.
Easton.v. Salisbury.

Legislature relieves a contract from the imputation of illegality, neither of the parties to the contract are in a condition to
insist on this objection. (Andrews v. Russell, 7 Black., 475;
8 Ind., 27.)
Upon a review of the wtole case, it is the opinion.of -the
court that the contract between these parties was made without fraud or surprise; that there is no illegality in the cause,
or consideration; that the priority of payment has not been
released or defeated; and that the relief sought is within the
competency of a court of equity to allow.
Decree affirmed.

ALTON R. EASTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERRtOR, v. THoMAs L. SALISBURY.
Between May, 1829, and July, 1832, there was an interval in the acts of C'ongress reserving lands from sale which were claimed under Spanish concessions
in Louisiana; and during this interval, an entry or patent for any of these
lands would have been valid.
But a patent issued in 1827, whilst the reservation was in force, was void, and
the patent did not become operative proprio vigore during the interval be.
tween 1829 and 1832.
The confirmation of the concession in 1836, therefore, gave a good title to the
claimant under the concession.
Moreover, the New Madrid warrant, not being located within one year from the
26th of April, 1822, was void.

THIS dase was brought up from the Supreme Court of Mis.

souri by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
It was a petition in the nature of an ejectment -brought by
Easton against Salisbury in the St. Louis Court of Common
Pleas, to recover the lots described in the opinion of the court.
The Court of Common Pleas gave judgment for the defendant,
and this judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court.
The plaintiff claimed -under a New Madrid patent issued in
1827, and the defendant under a Spanish concession which
was confirmed in 1836. The Supreme. Court of Missouri

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

427

Easton v. SaZisbury.

were of opinion that the New Madrid patent was absolutely
void when issued, and that it did not become operative in the
interval between May, 1829, and July, 1832.
The case waa argued in this court by Mr. Gibson and Hr.
Gamble for the plaintiff in error, and by Mt. Ewing for the defendant.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error contended that the
question involved in this case was not ruled or raised in Mills
v. Stoddard, or Stoddard P. Chambers, and that Easton had a
right to perfect his title in the interval between 1829 and 1832.
The two points were thus stated:
I. The title under which the plaintiff claims was good against
the United States. (Les Bois v. Brammell, 4 How., 449; Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How., 284"; Mills v. Stoddard, 8 How.,
364; Menara's Heirs v. Massy, 8 How., 310; Delauriere v.
Emerson, 15 How., 525; Hoofnagle v. Anderson, 7 Wheaton.)
The survey made by the surveyor general, its return by him
to the recorder of lan'd titles, the issuing of a patent certificate by that officer, and of a patent by the President of the
United States, were all acts done by the proper officers of the
United States; and the question is now for the first time raised
in this court, as to the effect of these acts as against the United
States.,
This question.was not only not decided in Mills v. Stoddard,
or Stoddard v. Chambers, but the point was not involved in
those cases, nof raised by the counsel. On the contrary, in
Chambers v. Stoddard, (2 How., 295,) the plaintiff's counsel,
Messrs. Lawlers and Ewing, say: "1fthe question were now
between the United States and locator, there might, perhaps,
be some grounds for a liberal construction. It might be contended, that the surveyor general, who filed the location and
surveyed it, being an officer and agent of the lUnited States, his
act as against his principal ought, if ppssible, to be binding.'
And the:inquiry in that case was, as stated by this 6ourt,
"whether the defendant (Chambers) had, any title, as against
the lainiffs."

428

SUPREME, COURT.
Eamo v. Svlisbury.

fI. The land was subject to be disposed of by the Government during the existence of the bar, from 1829 to 1832, to
any person, or in any manner, and was then open to entry or
location.
And the plaintiff had the right, during this time, to perfect
his title. But hhd the plaintiff applied for a patent during the
bar, (and this- court say a patent issued then would have incontestab.ly passed the title,) he would have been properly answered
by the oicers of.the Government, that two patents could never
issue by the Government for the same land under the same title,
and to the same person; and that, as his patent passed any title
the Government might have, I second patent could add no
strength to his claim.
Suppose the plaintiff, relying on his patent, had purchased
Bell's claim in 1827, and, having then both titles, had failed
or neglected to have it confirmed under the act of 1836; would
it. not have been a sheer outrage to permit the United States
to deprive him qf this land, and at the same time to continhe
to claim the land in New Madrid, in lieu of which this was
granted ? And yet, such is the legitimate result of the principle which the-defendant seeks to establish.
The counsel for the defendant contended that the Supreme
Court of Missouri had taken the proper view of the point, that
the patent of 1827 was absolutely void; and that, by the act
of Congress of April 26, 1822, this warraut was void, being
unlocated on the 26th of April, 1823.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Missouri.
The parties agreed as to the facts in this c'ase, in order that
the points of law might be ruled by the court.
. On the 9th of July, 1811, there were confirmed to James
Smith, by the commissioners for the adjustment of titles to,
land in the Territory of Missouri, lots nine and ten, (9 and 10,)
"containing two Arpens of land, iathe village of Little Prairie,
in the county of New Madrid, State of Missouri. Afterwards

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

429

Easton v. SzUsbury.

these lots, while still owned by said Smith; were materially
injured by earthquakes, and proof thereof was made before the
recorder, of land titles at St. Louis, on the 16th of Novem
ber, 1815; whereupon, there was issued by said recorder, to
said James Smith, a certificate of new location, (commonly
called a New Madrid certificate,) numbered 159. On the 22d
of October, 1816, said Smith and wife conveyed to Rufus
Easton the said two arpens in Little Prairie, and assigned to
him the right to locate other lands under said certificate-in lieu
of the land so injured, and also conveyed to said Easton the
land that might be located by means of said certificate.. On
the 16th of November, 1816, Easton gave notice to the surveyor general of said Territory of Missouri of the location of
said certificate on a tract of land about two miles west of the
city of St. Louis, and demanded a survey thereof. In March,
1818, a survey was made,- by direction of the surveyor general, in pursuance of said selection, and was duly returied and
approved by said surveyor general; said survey is numbered
2,491, and the land thereby designated pmbraces the land in
controversy, and is Within St. Louis township, in St. Louis
county, Missouri. By virtue of the premises, Easton held said
land, claiming the same until 1826, when he conveyed the
same to William Russell. On the 28th day of May, 1827, the
United States issued a patent on said location for said land tc
James Smith or his legal representatives. On the 19th of
January, 1839, William assigned and- conveyed all his interest
in said land to J. G. Easton, who, on the 18th of March, 1845,
conveyed and assigned the same to plaintiff Defendant is in
possession of the land described in the petition, and the same
is within the boundaries indicated by said survey and patent.
On the 20th of January, 1800, a concession was made by the
Spanish Lieutenant' Governor, to one Mordecai Bell, of threo
hundred and fifty arpens of land, including the premises in controversy. Therepresentatives of Mordecai Bell, on the 29th
of June, 1808, presented the claim for said land, together with
a descriptive plat of sutvey tlereof, to the board of coinmissioners for the adjustment of land titles in the Territory of
Missouri. The documents showing said claim, and the deriv

'430

SUPREME COURT.
Easton y. Salisbury.

active title from Mordecai Bell, were duly recorded in 1808 by
the recorder of land titles for the Territory of Missouri.
And on the 4th day of July, 1836, the United States confirmed
said claim, according to said plat of survey, to the legal representatives of M. Bell; a survey of said confirmation was made
and is numbered
by authority of the United States in -,
3,026. Said sur'vey embraces the land in dispute; and all the
title of the confirmee, by the act of 1836, is in the defendant.
The survey numbered 2,491, and also the patent dated 28th of
May, 1827, are in due form of law; but defendant does not
admit the authority of the officers of the United States to make
the one or issue the other, nor that the same were made or
i~sued under any law. It is admitted that the land in controversy is worth more -than two thousand dollars; that if the
court should be of opinion that the plaintiff is entitled to recover, it is agreed that the damages shall be fixed at one cent,
and the monthly value of the premises at one dollar. Either
party is at liberty to turn this case into a bill of exceptiohs.
and thereon prosecute a writ of error, or take an appeal to thE
Supreme Court of the State of Missouri, or of the United States.
It is admitted that survey No. 3,026 was made under the authority of the United States, but the plaintiff may dispute the power
of the United States as regards both the confirmation of 1836
and the survey No. 3,026.
It is admitted that the plaintiff had, at the commencement
of this suit, all the title that was invested in said James Smith,
or his representatives, by the New Madrid location and patent
above mentioned.
It will be observed that this controversy arises between a
New Madrid title and a. Spanish concession. A holder of a
New Madrid certificate had a right to -locate it on anyof the
public lands which had been authorized" to be sold. This
claim came into the hands of Alton R. Easton, the plaintiff in
error. It was surveyed in March, 1818, and the 28th of May,
1827, the United States issued a patent to James Smith, or his
legal representatives.
From 1808 to the 26th of May, 1829, reservations were made
from time to time to satisfy certain claims, but from that time

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

431

Easton v. SaZilnur.

they ceased, until renewed by the act of the 9th of July, 1832.
During this period, it is understood by the plaintiff in error,
the "land in quiestion was subject to be disposed of to any person, or in any manner, and was then open to entry or location.
And it is urged that the plaintiff had the right during this
time to perfect his title."
The President of the United States has no right to issue
patents for land, the sale of which is not authorized by ldw.
In the case of Stoddard v. Chambers, (2 How., 318,) it is said,
"The location of Ohambers was made on lands not liable to
be thus appropriated, but expressly reserved; and this was the
ease when his patent was issued." Had the entry been made
or the patent issued after the 26th of May, 1829, when the
reservation ceased, and before -it was revived by the act of
1832, the title of the defendant could not be contested.
Nothing vas done to give Easton's title validity, from the
-cessation of the reservation, in 1829, until its revival, in 1832.
His entry was made in 1818, and on the 28th of May, 1827,
his patent was issued. The land located and patented, having
been reserved, was not liable to be appropriated by his patent.
Whether the withdrawal of the patent might have been procured, or a new one instituted, it is not necessary to inquire.
No such attempt was made.
But it seems by the act of the 26th of April, 1822, it was
provided that all warrants under the New Madrid act of the
15th of February, 1815, which shall not be located within one
year, shall be held null and void. This law..is decisive upon
this point: all New Madrid warrants not located within one
year from the 26th of April, 1822, are null and void. Smith's
or Easton's certificate for the New Madrid claim was void, and
also his patent when issued, under the paramount claim of
Bell, whose title was confirmed by, the act of the 4th of July,
1836. Bell made the conveyance to Mackey, not having the
legal title; but when, under the act of 1836, the report bf the.
commissioners was confirmed to, Bell and his legal representatives, the legal title vested in him, and inured, by way of
estoppel, to the grantee, and those who claim ly deedunder
him. (Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 How., 817.)

SUPREME COURT.
Mc arty et al. v. Roots et al.

There was no period from the entry and patent of the New
Madrid claim in which that claim was valid. The location
was not only voidable, but it was absolutely void, as it was
made on land subject to a prior right. And under the act of
1822, all New Madrid warrants not located within a year from
that date, were declared to be void.
Whether we look at the confirmatory act of 1836, which
vested the title in the confirmee, or to the New Madrid title
asserted against it, it is clear that the New Madrid title is
without validity, and that the fee is vested in the grantee of
Bell.

JULIAN MCCARTY AND JOHN WYNN, ADmINISTRATORS OF ENOCH
MCCARTY, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. GUERNSEY
ROOTS, ERASTUS P.

COE, AND JOHN

H.

Y.

AYDELOTTE.

Where an accommodation bill of exchange was paid by one of the endorsers, and
there was no special agreement that they should be bound to pay in equal pro
portions as co-sureties, the endorser who took it up had a right to assign it as
collateral security for a pre-existing debt; and the assignee can maintain a suit
against the original payee, who was also an endorser.
The endorser who took up the billwas a trustee; but the plea was defective in not
averring that there remained sufficient funds in the trust estate to pay this bill
after discharging the trust.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
It was a suit brought by Roots, Coe, & Aydelotte, citizens
of Ohio, against Enoch McCarty, a citizen of Indiana.
It vas upon a bill of exchange'drawn by Tyner & Childers,
upon Richard Tyner, of New York, in favor of Enoch McCarty, for $4,500. Tyner accepted the bill, and McCarty endorsed
it to George Holland, who endorsed it to Ezekiel Tyner, who
endorsed it to Roots, Coe, & Aydelotte. It was alleged that
Holland took it up when past due at the Richmond Bank, and
that Holland delivered the bill to the plaintiffs as collateral
security for a pre-existing debt of Richard Tyner.
The nature of the pleas is set forth in the opinion of the
nourt, and the following reference to them will be sufficient:

