DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Unte Staks v. Fossatt.

the fulfilment of which they were executed? The opinion of
the court is, that it was a departure from the business of the
corporation, and that their officers exceeded their authority.
Judgment affirmed.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. CiARLEs FoSSATT.
The only cases which will be taken up out of their regular order on the docket
are'those where the question in dispute will embarrass the operdtions of the
Government while it remains unsettled.
But if the court below, to which a mandate is sent, does not proceed to execute
it, or disobeys and mistakes its meaning, the party aggrieved may, by motion
for a mandamus, at any time, bring the errors or omissions before this court for
correction.
No appeal will lie from any order or decision of the court below which is not 1
final decree.
The decree o)f the court below, in the present case, was not a final decree.
The jurisdiction of the board of commissioners for the settlement of private land
claims in California, and of the courts of the United States on appeal, extends
not only to the adjudication of questions relating to the genuineness and suthenticity of the grant, and others of a similar character, but also all questicus
relating to its location and boundaries ; and does not terminate until the issi e
of a patent conformably to the decree.
It is the duty of the surveyor general to cause all private claims which shall bt
finally confirmed to be accurately surveyed, and to furnish plats of the same.

Tais was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
It was the same case which was before this court at the preceding term, and is reported in 20 Howard, 413. The position
of the case is explained in the second opinion of the court, as
delivered by Mr. Justice Campbell.
Being so down upon the docket as that there was no probability of reaching it in the regular order of business, a motion
was made to take it up out of its regular turn. This motion
was argued by -Mr.Bayard 4nd Mr. _Neson in favor of it, and
by 3ir. Black against it.
_Mr. Black (Attorney General) remarked, that he could not
say that the public business of the Government was obstructed
in consequence of the pendency of this, appeal.

SUPREME COURT.
United Statesv. Fossat.

Upon this motion, Mr. Chief Justice TAiNEY delivered the
opinion of the court.
According to the rules and practice of the court, no case
can be taken up out of its order on the docket, where private
interests only are concerned. The only cases in which they
will depart from this rule are those where the question in dispute will embarrass the operations of the Governmentwhile it
remains unsettled. But when a dase is sent to the court below
by a mandate from this court, no appeal will lie from. any order
or decision of the court until it has passed its final decree in
the case. And if the court does not proceed to execute the
mandate, or disobeys and mistakes its meaning, the party aggrieved may, by motion for a mandamus, at any time, bring
the errors or omissions of the inferior court before this court
for correction. Upon looking into the record in the case of
United States v. Fossatt, the court doubt whether there has been
a final decision under the mandate, and whether the present
appeal ought not to be dismissed on that ground. If there is
no final decree, the proceedings of the court below cannot be
interrupted by an appeal from interlocutory proceedings.
The court therefore desire to hear the counsel upon the question, whether the decree in question is final, upon motion to
dismiss, and will hear the argument on Monday, March 7th.
When the case came up again, the motion to dismiss the
appeal, because the judgment of the court below was not final,
was argued by Mr. Bayard and Mr. Nelson in support thereof,
and by Mr Black (Attorney General) and Mr. Bererdy Johnson
in opposition thereto.Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause came before this court by appeal from the District Court of the United States for the northern district of
California, and was decided at the last term, and is reported in
20 How., 413.
The court determined:
"That a grant under which the plaintiff claimed land in California was valid for-one league, to be taken within the south-

DEC3MBER TERM, 1858.

447

United tates v. Fossatt.

ern, western, and eastern boundaries designated therein, at the
election of the grantee and his assigns, under the restrictions
established for the location and survey of private laud claims
in California by the executive department of the Government.
The external boundaries of the grant may be declared by the
District Court from the evidence on file, and such other evidence as may be produced before it; and the claim of an interest equal to three-fourths of the land granted is confirmed
to the appellee."
The District Court, iii conformity with the directions of the"
decree, declared the external lines on three sides of the tract
claimed, leaving the other line to be completed by a survey to
be made. From"the decree, in this form, the United -States
have appealed.
A motion has been submitted to the court for the dismissal
of thb appeal, because the decree of the District Court is interlocutory, not.final.
This motion is resisted, because the inquiries and decrees of
the board of commissioners for the settlement of private land
claims invCalifornia, by the act of 3d March, 1851, (9 S. at L.,
632,) in the first instance, and of the courts of the United States
on appeal, relate only to the question -of the validity of the
claim-and by validity is meant its authenticity, legality, and
in some cases interpretation, but does not include any question
6f location, extent, or boundary-and that the District Court
has gone to the full limit of its jurisdiction in the decree under
consideration, if it has not already exceeded it.
The matter submitted by Congress to the inquiry and determination of the board of commissioners, by the act of 3d
March, 1851, (9 Stat. at Large, 632, sed. 8,)'and to the courts
of the United States on appeal, by that act and the act of 31st
August; 1852, (10 Stat. at.Large, 99, sec. 12,) are the claims
"of' each and every person' in California, by virtue of any right
or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican Government."
And it will be at once understood that these comprehend all
private claims to land in California.
The effect of the inquiry and decision of these tribunals upon
the matter submitted is final and conclusive. If unfavorable

SUPREME COURT.
United SWztes v. Fossat.

to the claimant, the land "shall be deemed, held, and considered, as a part of the public domain of the United States ;"
but if favorable, the decrees rendered by the commissioners
or the courts "shall be conclusive hbetween the United States
and the claimants."
These acts of Congress do not create a voluntary jurisdiction,
that the claimant may seek or decline. All claims to land that
arewitbheld from the board of commissioners during the legal
term for presentation, are treated as non-existent, and the land
As belonging to the public domain.
Thus it appears that the right and title of the inhabitants of
California, at the date of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, to
land within its limits, with the exception of some within the
limits of a pueblo or corporation described in the 14th section
of the act of 3d March, 1851, must undergo the scrutiny of this
board, and that its decisions are subject to review in the District and Supreme Courts. This jurisdiction comprehends
every species of title or right, whether inchoate or complete;
whether resting in cotitract or evinced by authentic act and
judicial possession.
The object of this inquiry was not to discover forfeitures or
to enforce rigorous conditions. The declared purpose was to
authenticate titles, and to afford the solid guarantee to rights
which ensues from their full acknowledgment by the supreme
authority. The tribunals were therefore enjoined to proceed
promptly, and to render judgment upon the pleadings and evidence; and in deciding, they were to be governed by the laws
of nations, the stipulations of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo,
the laws, usages, and customs, of the Government from which
the claim is derived, the principles of equity, and the decisions
of the Supreme Court of the United States in similar cases.
What are the questions involved in the inquiry into the
validity of a claim to land ?
It is obvious that the answer to this question must depend,
in a great measure, upon the state and condition of the evidence. It may present questions of the genuineness and authenticity of the title, and whether the evidence is forged or
fraudulent; or, it may involve an inquiry into the authority of

DECEMBER TEIM, 1858.

-'

449

United States y. Fossatt.

the officer to -make a grant, or whether he was in the exercise
of the faculties of his office when it was made; or, it may digclose questions of the capacity of the grantee to take, or.whether
the claim has been abandoned or is a subsisting title, or has.
been forfeited for a breach of conditions. Questions of each
kind here mentioned have"been considered by the court in
cases arising under this law.'
But, in addition td these questions' upon the vitality of 'the
title, there may arise questions of extent, quantity, location,
boundary, and legal operation," that are equally essential in
determining the validity 6f the claim.
In affirming a claim to land under a Spanish or Mexican
grant, to be valid within the-law of natiohs, the stipulations of
the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo,.and the usages of those Governments, we imply something more than that certain papers
are genuine, legal, and translative of property. We affirm that
ownership and possession of land of definite boundaries rightfully attach to the grantee.
In the case of the United States v. Arredondo, (6 Pet., 691,)
the inquiries of this court, beside those affirming the legality of
the gtant, extended to questions of forfeiture for the non-fulfilment of conditions, the inalienability of lands in possession
of an Indian. tribe, and fraud. 'The Superior Court of F]orida
in that suit, directed that the land should be surveyed, in the
form of a square, with a designated monument as the centre.
This court annulled that decree, and ascertained another as the
central point. The appeal in -Mitchell v. United States (15
Pet., 52) was taken in a case that had been decided here, and
in which an issue upon the decree that succeeded- the mandate
of this court, and made in execution of'it, subsequently arose.
Certain property about 'Fort St. Mark's was excepted in the
original decree of -confirmatiqn, and reserved to the United
States, and the Superior Court in that decree was directed to
ascertain the extent and boundaries of the land reserved. This
-'was. done and the. land specifically described, and on appeal
this decree was affirmed.
These questions arose upon an act of Congress that required
the courts, "by a final decrde,.t6 settle. and determine the quesvot. xxI.

29

SUPREME COURT.
Unikd States v. Fossatt.

tion of the validity of the title according to the law of nations,
the stipulations of any treaty and proceedings under the same,
the several acts of Congress in relation thereto, and the laws
and ordinances of"the Government from which it is alleged to
have been derived." This act enumerates as proper to be heard
and decided, preliminary to such a decree, questions of extent,
location, and boundary. (4 Stat. at L., 52, sec. 2.)
It is asserted on the part of the appellants that the District
Court has no means to ascertain the specific boundaries of a
confirmed claim, and no power to- enforce the execution of its
decree, and consequently cannot proceed further in the cause
than it has done.
The 13th section of the act of 3d March, 1851, makes it the
duty of the surveyor general to cause all private claims which
shall be finally confirmed to be accurately surveyed, and to
furnish plats of the same. It was the practice under the acts
of 1824 and 1828, (4 Stat. at L., 52, 284,) for the court to direct
their mandates specifically to the surveyor designated in those
acts. And in the case ex parte Sibbald v. United States; (12
Pet., 488,) the duty of the surveyor to fulfil the decree of the
court, and the power of the court to enforce the discharge of
that duty, are declared and maintained. The duties of the surveyor begin under the same conditions, and are.declared in
similar language, in the act of 1824, 1828, and of 1851.
The opinion of the court is, that the power of the District
Court over the cause, under the acts of Congress, does not terinainate until the issue of a patent, conformably to the decree.
In the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred by this act, and
acts of a similar character, this court has habitually revised
decrees of the District Court, which were not final decrecs
under the judiciary act of 1789. The court has uniformly
accepted, in the first instance, as a final decree, one that ascertained the authenticity of the claimant's title, and declared, in
general terms, its operation, leaving the questions of boundary
and location to be settled subsequently. This practice was.
approved in the case last cited. The peculiar nature of thes
cases rendered such a relaxation of the rules of proceeding of
the court appropriate. The United States did not appear in

DO-EMMER TERM, 1858.
Sturgis v. Clough el aZ.

the courts as a contentious liigant; but as a great nations
acknowledging their obligation to recognise as valid every
authentic title, and soliciting exact information to direct their
executive Government to comply with that obligaion.
They bad instrumentalities adequate to the fulfilment of
their engagements without delay, wheneier their existence was
duly ascertained. There was no occasion for, the strict rules
of proceeding that experience has suggested to secure a speedy,
and exact administration between suitors of a differentcharacter. And it has rarely occurred that, the same case has reap-.
peared in the court after the first decree. If the litigation had
been other than it was, 'the rule of proPeeding would have va-"
ried with it.
But, after the authenticity of the grant is oscertained in this
court, and a reference has been made to the District Couit, to
determine'the external bounds of the grant, in order that the
final confirmation may be made, we cannot understand upon:
what principle an appeal cafi be claimed until the whole of the
directions of this court are complied with, and that decree made.
It would lead to vexatious and unjust delays to sanction such
a practice. It is the opinion of the court that this appeal was
improvidently taken and allowed, and must be dismissed; and
-that the District Court proceed to ascertain the external -lines
of the land confirmed to the 'apellee, and enter a final decree
if confirmatioh of that land.

RUSSELL STURGIS, LIBELLANT AND APPELLANT, V. JOHN CLOUGH,
ROBERT L.

MABEY,

'THE STEAMBOAT

AND

R. L.

HENRY M.

MABEY,

WEED, *CLAIMANTS OF

HER TAcKLE, &C.

Where two steam-tugs are approaching a vessel from different directions, in
order to secure the contract of towing her into harbor, the established rules are,
that the steamer which is following in the wake of the vessel should 'come up
on her starboard quarter and slack her engine, whilst the steamer which is approaching from the opposite direction -should round to, either to windward or
leeward, so as to head the same way is the vessel. -

