SUPREME COURT.
Lownsdak d aL v. Parrig

(See New Jersey Steam :Navigation Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6
How., 381, et cas. ib. cit.)
The judgment of the court below is therefore reversed, and
a a venire de novo awarded.

DANIEL

H. LOWNSDALE

AND OTHERS, APPELLANTS, v.

JosAn L.

PARRISH.
Congress passed no law in any wise affecting title to lands in the Territory of
Oregon until September, 1850; and therefore where a controversy arose, in
July, 1850, relating to titles to land, neither party could be said to have a
legal title.
Consequently, the amount in controversy could not be ascertained, so as to bring
the case within the jurisdiction of this court; and there is no question arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States so as to give jurisdiction.

THIS was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Oregon.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Gillet and Hr.Johnson for the appellants, and Mr.Baxter for the aprellee.
The arguments of the counsel were directed chiefly to the
merits. On the point of jurisdiction, Mr. Baxter gave an -account of the singular spectacle exhibited by the American settlers in Oregon, who established a provisional Government
amongst themselves, whilst the entire Territory was still in the
joint occupancy of the United States and Great Britain. Mr.
Baxter then referred to the act of Congress passed on the 14th
of August, 1848, (9 Stat. at L., 829,) which contained the two
following clauses, viz:
"And the existing laws now in force in the Territory of
Oregon, under the provisional Government established by the
people thereof, shall continue to be valid and operative therein, so far as the same be not incompatible with the Constitution of the United States, and the principles and provisions of
this act.

DEOBMBER TERM, 1858.

291

Lomwdd d al. v. Parrisk.

"But all laws heretofore passed in said Territory, making
grants of land, or otherwise affecting or encumbering the title
to lands, shall be-and are hereby declared to be null and void."
Mlr1.
Baxter examined the whole law, and inferred that its
true construction was to declare the existence of such general
laws of the United States in Oregon as might be executed by
the judicial and executive authorities thus created, or such
general authorities as then existed over, the whole territory of
the United States, but did not intend to extend over Oregon
such special legislation, as required special organizatioh, not
then existing in the Territory, to execute them. And when
this town was laid off, the land law of Oregon had assured
quiet possession bf the tract of 640 acres to Pelligrove and
Lovejoy, and those claiming under them, as long as the provisional Government continued. That all purchasers of town
lots fiom these proprietors obtained a title to their lots, and
the easements connected with them, grafted on, springing out
of, and sustained by, the right of possession under the provisional Gov.ernment; and the' contracts for sales and purchase
of these lots under the provisional Government were valid.
That the 17th section of the law establishing the Territorial
Government affirmed these contracts, and they were valid and
in force under the laws of the Territory. And there is nothing in. the 6th or 14tb sections of the act of 1848 inconsistent
with this. This suit having been commenced before the passage
of the land laws of 1850, must be decided on the laws of the provisional Government and the Territorial Government, and it
was the duty of the courts of.equity to preserve the rights of the
parties as they stood under the laws of the provisional Govern.
ment and the Territorial Government, and to enjoin all irregular proceedings in violation of those rights, until titles were
granted by the *Government of the United States, under the
land laws of the United States.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Parrish filed his,bill in.equity against Lownsdale and others
in a District Court of Oregon Territory, praying for an injunction to restran the defendants from obstructing a narrow,

SUPREME COURT.
Lownsdaie et al. v. Parrish.

piece of land, claimed as Water street, lying in front of the
complainant's storehouse, and a square of ground claimed as
his, two hundred feet on each side, laid off into eight lots, as
city property, within the city of Portland, and on one of which
the storehouse stands. The strip of land lying in front of
these lots extends to the Wallamette river; at that point, the
land is several hundred feet wide. The complainant alleges
that it was dedicated to the public as a street, to the use of the
proprietors of the town, for the purposes of commerce; the river
there being within the flow of tide, navigable for ships, and
requiring it wide front space to accommodate loading and discharge of cargoes.
The District Court found that Water street, in the city of
P'ortland, was bounded by the river, opposite the lots of the
complainant; and that the defendants at the commencement
of the suit were about to obstruct the same, to the special injury of the plaintiff, as stated in the bill; and thereupon an injunction was granted, as prayed for. This decree was affirmed
in the Supreme Court of Oregon, where the respondents carried the cause by appeal, and from that decree they have appealed to this court, and we are called on to revise the proceedings below.
The first question presented is, whether this court has jurisdiction and power to re-examine the controversy.
By the act of Congress organizing the inhabitants of Oregon
Territory into a Government, it is provided (sec. 9) that writs
of error and appeals from final decisions of the Supreme Court
of Oregon shall be allowed to the Supreme Court of the
United States, where the value of the(property, or the amount
in controversy, shall exceed two thousand dollars, to be ascedtained by the oath of either party, or by a competent witness;
and also in cases "where the Constitution of the United
States, or an act of Congress, or a treaty of the United States,
is brought in, question."
The complainant assumes that he would sustain special.
damage by the. obstruction of the space between his property
and the river, but how much damage does not appear from the
allegations in the bill, or otherwise; and it is difficult. for us to

DECE11BER TERM, 1858.

293

owasdak et a7. v. Parrish.

see how either party to the suit could sustain damage to his
rights of property, as the town was laid off in 1845, on property of the United- States, whilst our inhabitants who had emigrated there, and those of Great Britain, held joint possession
of the country in virtue of the treaty between the two nations
of October 20th, 1818, (art. 18,) which was continued in force
by the convention of August 6th, 1827.
In June and July, 1845, the people of Oregon Territory,
"for mutual protection, and to secure peate and prosperity
among themselves," elected delegates, who met in convention,
and adopted laws and regulations for their government, "until
such time (say they) as the United States of America extend
jurisdiction over iis." - In this plan of Government, it is provided that any one wishing to establish a claim to land shall
designate the extent of his dlaim by line-marks, and have it
recorded in the office of the Territorial recorder; the claim
not to exceed a mile square, or 640 acres. The description of
claim under which the complainant and the respondents set
up title is founded on this regulation. By the treaty of 15th
June, 1846, the line dividing our possessions and those of
Great Britain west of the Rocky Mountains was concluded;
and on the 14th of August, 1848, Congress passed an act to
establish the Territorial Government of Oregon, in which the
laws then existing under the provisional Government (established by the people) are continued, and declared to be operative until altered. "But (says the act, sec. 14) all laws heretofore passed in said Territory, making grants of land, or
otherwise affecting or encumbering the title to lands, shall be,
and are hereby declared to be, null and void." Congress
passed no law in any wise affecting title to lands in Oregon
Territory till September 27, 1850; and the bill in this case
was fied July 29, 1850, so that, when the litigation commenced, neither party to the suit had any title to or interest in the
land whatever; and therefore the respondents and appellees
could not sustain injury by being enjoined not to erect buildings on lands belonging to the Government in which they had
no interpst. It is proper to remark here, that We have nothing to do with, nor can we notice, rights acquired to this

SUPREME COURT.
.Iorewuse v. Pkelps.

property by acts of Congress passed subsequently to the origin
of this controv~rsy.
Neither the Constitution of the United States, nor an act of
Congress, or a treaty, was "brought in question" in the lower
court; neither side could have legitimately raised such a question, and called for its decision; and to give this court jurisdiction of the case, in this instance, the question must have
been raised and decided in the lower courts, and it must so
appear on the record. (16 Peters, 281.)
Being of opinion that there is no jurisdiction in this court
to examiie 'and revise the decree of the Supreme Court of
Oregon, we order the appeal to be dismissed.

DICKERSON B.

M REHOUSE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM

A. PHELPS.
By the acts of Congress passed in 1829, (4 Stat. at L., 334,) and 1836, (5 Stat.
at L., 79,) commissioners were to be appointed to hear and determine all

claims to lots of ground in the, town of Galena, Illinois, and to give a certificate
in favor of each person having the right of pre-emption.
Where a person presented his claim as the legal representative of a settler, obtaified the certificate, and afterwards a patent to the legal representatives, it
inured to the benefit of the person who had presented the -claim, obtained the
certificate, paid the money, and procured the patent.
Where this person acted for himself individually, and also as the administrator of
his co-tenant who was dead, it was his duty and right under the laws of the
State, to pay both shares of the purchase-money.
One standing outside, who took no interest in the claim for many years after it
was passed, and then claimed under a deed made by the settler in 1829, alleging that he was the proper legal representative, had not such a title as would
enable him to maintain an action of ejectment.
The cases under incipient Spanish titles do not apply to this case, because the
United States'were the absolute owners of the lots in question, and could dis
pose of them at their pleasure.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Illinois by a writ of error, issued under the twenty-.
fifth section of the judiciary act.
Phelps, who was the plaintiff in the court below, brought an
ejectment for the undivided half of two lots in the town of

