DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

391"

Rickmond v. City of.MMtwauki,.

The duties demanded were paid under protest, and*this suit
was brought to recover back the amount alleged to be overpaid. At the trial, the jury, under the instruction of the court,
found a verdict in favor of the defendants in error for the sum
of $193.88, upon which a judgment was entered against the
collector; and this writ of error is brought on that judgment.
The act of Congress which is supposed to give jurisdiction
in cases of this description is the act of May 31st, 1844, (5
Stat., 658.) This act authorizes a writ of error, at the instance
of -either party, upon a final judgment in a Circuit Court in
any civil action brcught by the United States for the enforcement of the revenue laws, or for the collection of duties due or
alleged to be due, without regard to the sum or value in controversy. And it is true, that'the same reasons which induced
the Legislature to, give the writ of error in the cases mentioned in the law, apply with equal force to suits against a collector to recover back duties which he alleged to be due, and had
already collected. The questions are of the same character,
and the interests of the United States the same in either case.
And it is most probable that suits against the collecter were
omitted in the act of Congress by some oversight or accident.
But, however that may be, the writ of error is authorized
in those cases only in which the United States are plaintiffs in
the suit. The language of the law is too plain to admit of
doubt, and the words cannot by any reasonable or fair construction be extended to suits brought by the importer against
the collector; and as the sum or value in controversy does not
exceed $2,000, and the case is not provided for by the act of
Congressreferred to, the writ must be dismissed for want of
jurisdictio4 in this court.

DEAN IICHMOND, APPELLANT, V. THE CiTY oF MILWAUIME AND
FERDINAND KUEKH.
Alftr a case has been heard and dismissed for want of jurisdiction, because it
did not appear that the value of the property in'controversy exceeded two
thousand dollars, affidavits of its value come too late.

-SUPREME COURT.
Richmond v.

City of Mitwaukie.

The cases upon this point examined.
Moreover, the value of the property is stated in the proceedings of the court
below, and affidavits have never been received here to vary it or enhance it in
order to give jurisdiction.

THis case was before this court at a preceding day of the
term. (See page 80 of the present volume.)"
,Mr. Gillet, of counsel for appellant,, moved to reinstate the
case, and filed an affidavit of Alexander Mitchell, stating the
property to be worth twenty-five hundred dollars, and also an
admission by Mr. Woodward (city attorney) that it was worth
that amount.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was dismissed at a former day of the present term,
because it did not appear that the value ;f the property in controversy exceeded $2,000. An affidavit hds now. been filed on
the part of the appellant, siating that the proper ty was woith
$2,500; and a motion thereupon made to reinstate the case,
to which the counsel for the appellees assent.
There are cases-such, for example, as an ejectment, or a
suit for dower-in which the value does not,: according to the
usual forms of proceeding, appear in the pleadings orevidence
in the record. In such cases, affidavits of value, have been
received here, in order to show that the fale-is:i large enough
to give jurisdiction to this court. That was the case in Course
v. Steadman and others. referred to in the 18th rule of this
court. The case is reported in 4 Dall., 22. It'waq a proceeding to charge a tract of land with a lien created by a judgment; and, as the decree was against the respondent, it was
necessary for her to show that the land was worth mdore than
$2,000, in order to support the appeal. The case of Williamson v. Kincaid, referred to in the above-meniionet case, (4
fDull., 19,) was an action for dower. But in both Qf thesp cases
the affidavits were filed before the argtmetit on the merits;
and in Bush v. Parker, (5 Cr., 257,) Mr. Justice Livingston
expressed his opinion strongly against giving time to file affidavits of value, and the court refused to continue the case for

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

898

Porter.e al. Foy.

that purpose. And in the class of cases above mentioned, in
which affidavits are received, there is no instance in which a
case has been postponed or reinstated, in order to give*the
party time to produce affidavits of value. Indeed, such a practice would be irregular and inconvenient, and might sometimes
produce conflicting affidavits, and bring on a controversy about
value, occupying as much of the time of the court as the merits
of the case.
And if this case were one of those in which affidavits could
be received, they come too late after the case hag been heard
and dismissed for want of jurisdiction. But it is not a case of
that description, The value of the lots about to be sold for
corporation taxes was involved directly in the dispute. Their
value is stated in the bill, and the 'amount of taxes imposed
upon them, in order to show that the overcharge made by the
corporation was unieasonable and oppregsive; and their value
is stated by the complairant to be "over $500 "-the sum
mentioned being only one-fourth of the amount required to
give jurisdiction to this court; and where the value is stated
in the pleadings or poceedings of the court below, affidavits
here have never been received to vary it or enhance it, in order
to give jurisdiction. And the affidavit now offered could not
have been received, even if filed before the argument of the
case.
The motion to reinstate -istherefore" overruled.,

JAmEs D. PORTER ET AL., PLAINTIFS IN ERROR, V. BUSHROD W.
FOLEY.
This' court has already decided at the present term (see page 195 of this volume)
that a writ of error made returnable on the third Monday in January, and the
defendant in error cifed to appear on that day, is irregular, and mustbe dismissed.
A motion to remand the cage to the.court below, with leave to amend the writ of
error and citation, cannot be granted. But if the plaintiff in error desires it,
he may, in order to save expense, withdraw the transcript, and use it' in connection with the proper and legal process to bring the case here.

THIS case was brought up from the Court of Appeals of

