DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

481

Penn v. Holme.

services performedt for the United States in a capacity othe
than that of collector. It follows, that for services performed
in making these contracts and disbursements, which were not
within his duties as collector, he can make no further charge.
What has thus far been said relates exclusively to the defendant's claims under the act of 1849. The subsequent acts
are so much more unfavorable to these claims, that I do not
deem.it necessary to enter into a particular discussion of them.
They are the acts 6f September 30, 1850, (9 Stat.. at TL., 533,)
March 3, 1851, (9 Stat. at L., 608,) and August 81, 1852, (10
Stat. at L., 86.) I have examined these acts, and am satisfied
each of them deprives every collector, whose compensation exceeds twenty-five hundred dollars, of all participation in these
commissions, though, they are required to render the service
of superintendents of lights or disbursing. agents in procuring
supplies for them.

WnhIAm FENx, P I TTIFriN ERROR, V. PETER H. HoLmE.
The plaintiff in ejeetment must in all cases prove a legal title to the premises in
himself; at 'the tinie ofthe demise laid in the declaration, and evidence of an
equitable title will not be sufficient for a recovery.
Hence, the holder of a New Madrid certificate, upon which no patent had been
issued, and whilst it was yet uncertain whether or not the proposed location of
,it
was reserved under older surveys, could not recover in ejectment. Thelegal
title was in the Government.
The case4 referred to, showing the necessity of preserving the distinction between.
legal and equitable righfs and remedies.
The practice of allowing ejeetments to be maintained in State courts upon equitable titles cannot affectthe jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United Statds for the district of Missouri.
The 'case is explained in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Gibson and Mr. Gambe for the -plaintiff in error, and by Ifr. Leonard for the defendant; but the
. VOL. xxi.
81.

SUPREME COURT.
Penn v. Holm-.

point upon which the decision of this court turned did not attract the attention of the counsel.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, as a citizen of the-State of Illinois,
instituted an action of ejectment against the plaintiff in the
court above mentioned, and obtained a verdict and judgment
against him for a tract of land, described in the declaration as
a tract of land situated in St. Louis county, being the same
tract of land known as United States survey No. 2,489, and
located by virtue of a New Madrid certificate No. 105, and
containing six hundred and forty acres.
Both the plaintiff and defendant in the Circuit Court trace
the origin of their titles to the settlement claim of one James
Y. O'Carroll, who, it is stated, obtained permission as early as
the 6th of September, 1803, from the Spanish authorities, to
settle on the, vacant lands in Upper Louisiana, and who, in
virtue of that permis. ion, and on proof by one iRuddell of act
ual inhabitancy and cultivation prior to the 20th of December.
1803, claimed th- quantity of one thousand arpens of lana
near the Mics8;F3'ppi, in the district of New Madrid. Upor.
this application, the land commissioners, on the 13th of March,
1806, made a decision by which they granted to the claimant
one thousand arpens of land, situated as aforesaid, provided so
much be found vacant there.
On the 14th of December, 1810, the commissioners, acting
again on the claim of O'Carroll for one thousand arpens, declare that the board grant to James Y. O'Carroll three hundred and fifty acres of land, and order that the same be surveyed a'snearly in a square as may be, so as to include his
improvements. The claim thus allowed by the commissioners
was, by the operat;,n of the 4th section of the act of Congress
approved March 3, 1813, enlarged and extended to the quantity of six hundreJ and forty acres. (Vide Stat. at Large, p.
813, vol. 2.)
In the year 1812, a portion of the lands in the county of
New Madridhaving been injured by earthquakes, Congress, by
an act approved.on the 17th of February, 1815, provided that

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
enrn v. Holme.

"any person or persons owning lands in the county of New
Madrid, in the Missouri Territory, with the extent the said
county had on the 10th day of November, 1812, and whose
lands have been materially injured by earthquakes, shall be
and they hereby are authorized to locate the like quantity of
land on any of the public lands of the said Territory, the sale
of which is authorized by law." (Stat, at L., vol. 3, p. 211.)
On the 30th of Noerember, 1815, the recorder of land titles
for Missouri, upon evidence produced to him that the six hundred and forty acre grant to James Y. O'Carroll had been materially injured by earthquakes, in virtue of the act of Congress of 1815, granted* to said -O'Carroll New Madrid certificate No. 105, by which the grantee was authorized to locate
six hundred and forky acres of land on any of the public lands
in the Territory of Missouri, the sale of which was authorized
by law. Upon the conflicting claims asserted under this New
Madrid' certificate, and upon the ascertainment of the locations
attempted in virtue of its anthority,- this controversy has
arisen.
Each party to this controversy professes to deduce title from
the settlement right of O'Carroll, through mesne c6nveyances
proceeding from him. With respect to the construction 'of
these conveyances, several prayers have been presented. by
both plaintiff and defendant, and opinions as to their effect
have been expressed by the Circuit Court; 'but as to the rights
really conferred, or intended to be conferred, by, these transactions, it would, -ccording to the view of this cause taken by
this court be not merely useless, but premature and irregular
to discuss, and much more so to undertake to determine them.
This is an attempt to assert at law,' and by a legal remedy,
a right to real property-an action of ejectment to establish
the right of possession in land.
'That the plaintiff in ejectment must in all casesprove a legal
title to the premises in himself, at the time of the demise laid
in the declaration, and that evidence of an equitabl estate will
not be sufficient for a recovery, are principles so elementary
and so familiar to'the profession as to render unnecessary the
citation of authority in support of them. Such authority may,

SUPREME COURT.
Fenn v. Holme.

however, be seen in the cases of Goodtitle v. Jones, 7 T. R.,
49; of Doe v. Wroot, 5 East., 132; and of Roe v. Head, 8 T. R.,
118. This legal title the plaintiff must establish either upon a
connected documentary chain of evidence, or upon proofs of
possession of sufficient duration to warrant the legal conclusion
of the existence of such written title.
By the Constitution of the United States, and by the acts of
Congress organizing the Federal courts, and defining and in
vesting the jurisdiction of these tribunals, the distinction between common-law and equity jurisdiction has been explicitly
declared ahd carefully defined and established. Thus, in section 2, article 3, of the Constitution, it is declared that "the
judicial power of the United States shall extend to all cases in
law and equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the
United States," &c.
In the act of Congress "to establish the judicial courts of
the United States," this distribution of law and equity powers
is frequently referred to; and by the 16th section of that act,
as if to place the distinction between those powers beyond misapprehension, it is provided "that suits in equity shall not be
maintained in either of the courts of the United States in any
case where plain, adequate, and complete remedy may be had
at law," at'the same time affirming and separating the two
classes or sources of judicial authority. In every instance in
which this court, has expounded the phrases, proceedings at
the' common law and proceedings in equity, with reference to
the exercise of the judicial powers of the courts of the United
States, they will be found to have interpreted the former as
signifying the application of the definitions .and principles and
rules of the common law to rights and obligations essentially
legal; and the latter, as meaning the administration with
reference to equitable as contradistinguished from legal rights,
of the equity law as defined and enforced by the Court of
Chancery in England.
In the case of Robinson v. Campbell, 3 Wheat., on page 221,
this court have said: "By the laws of the United States, the
Circuit Courts have cognizance of all suits of a civil nature at
common law and in equity, in cases which fall withinthe lir

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

485

Fenn v. Holme.

its prescribed by those laws. By the 24th section of the judiciary act of 1789 it is provided, that the -laws cf the several
States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of
the United States, shall otherwise provide, shall be regarded
as rules of decision in trials at comnmon law in the courts of
the United States, in cases where they apply. The act of
May, 1792, confirms the modes of proceeding then used at
common law in the courts of the United States, and declares
that the modes of proceeding in suits in equity shall be according to the principles, rules, and usages, which belong to
courts of equity, as c6ntracistinguished from courts of common
law, except so far as may have been provided for by the act to
establish the'judicial courts of the United States. It is material
to consider whether it-was the intention of Congress by these
provisions to confine the courts of the United States, in their
mode of administering relief, to the same remedies, and those
only, with all their incidents, which existed in the" courts of
the respective States; in other words, whether it was their intention 'to give the party relief at law, where the practice of
the State courts would give it, and relief in equity only whenI
according to such practice, a plain,, adequate, and complete
remedy could.not be had at law? In some States in the-Union,
no court of chancery exists to. administer equitable relief. In
some of those States, courts of law recognise and enforce in
suits at law all equitable rights and claims which a court of
equity would recognise and enforce; in others, all relief is denied, and such equitable clainms and rights dre to be considered
as mnere nullities at law. Akconstruction, therefore, that would
adopt the State practice in all its extent, would at once extinguish in such States the exercise of equitable jurisdiction. The
acts of Congress have distinguished between remedies at common law and equity, yet this construction would confound them.
The court therefore think, that to effectuate the purposes of the
Legislature, the remedies in the courts of the United States are
to be at common law or in equity-not according to the practice
in the State courts, but according to the principles of common
law and equity, as distinguished and defined in that country
from which we derive our knowledge of those principles."

SUPREME COURT.
Fenn v. Home.

In the case of Parsons v. Bedford et al., 3 Peters, on pp.
446, 447, this court, in. speaking of the seventh amendment of
the Constitution, and of the state of public sentiment which
demanded and produced that amendment, say:
"The Constitution had declared, in the 3d article, that the
judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising
under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and
treaties made, or which shall be made, under their authority,
&c. It is well known that in civil suits, in courts of equity
and admiralty, juries do not intervene, and that courts of
equity use the trial by jury only in extraordinary cases.
When, therefore, we find that the amendment requires that
the right of trial by jury shall be preserved irr suits at common
law, the natural conclusion is, that the distinction was present
in the minds of the framers of the amendment. By common
law, they meant what the Constitution denominated in the 3d
article LAW, not merely suits which the common law recognised
among its old and settled proceedings, but suits in which lega_
rights were to be ascertained and determined, in contradistinction to those where equitable rights alone were recognised -and
equitable remedies administered."
The same doctrine is recognised in the case of Strother v.
Lucas, in 6 Peters, pp. 768, 769 of thevolume, and. in the case
of Parish v. Ellis, 16 Peters, pp. 453, 454. So, too, as late as
the year 1850, in the case of Bennett v. Butterworth, reported
in the 11th of Howard, 669, the Chief Justice thus states the
law. as applicable to the question before us.:
"The common law has been adopted in Texas, but the
f6rms and rules of pleading in common-law cases have been
abolished, and the parties are at liberty to set out their respective claims and defences in any form that will bring them be,
fore the court; and, as there -is no distinction in its courts
between cases at law and in equity, it has been insisted in this
case, on behalf of the defendant in error, that this court may
regard the plaintiff's petition either as a declaration at law or
a bill in equity. Whatever may be the laws of Texas in this
respect, they do not govern the proceedings in the courts of
the United States; and, although the forms of proceedings

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

487

enn v. Holme.

and practice in the State courts have been adopted in the District Court, yet the adoption of the State practice must not be
understood as confounding the principles of law and equity,
nor as authorizing legal and equitable claims to be'blended
together in one suit. The Constitution of the United States,
in creating and defining the judicial power of the General Government, establishes this distinqtion between law and equity,
and a party who claims a legal title must proceed at law, and
may, undoubtedly proceed acc'rding to the forms of practice
in such cases in the State court. But if the claim be an equitable one, he must proceed according to the rules which this
court has prescribed, regulating proceedings in equity in the
courts of the United States."
The authorities above cited are deemed decisive against the
right of the plaintiff in the court below to a recovery upon the
facts disclosed in this record, which show that the s9 tion in that
court was instituted upon an equitable and not upon a legal
title. With the attempt to locate O'Carroll's N~ew Madrid
warrant No. 150, in addition to its interference with what
were opposed five con, .
was called the St. Lou s commo, there
flicting surveys. In consequence of this state of faets, the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, on the 19th of
March, 1847, addressed to the surveyor general of Missouri
the following instructions: "I on examination, it should
satisfactorily appear- to you that the lands embraced by said
6urveys were at the date of O'Carroll's location reserved for
said claims, the O'Carroll location must yield to them, because
such land is -interdicted under the New Madrid act of the 17th
of February, 1815; but if, -atthe time 6f location, either of the
tracts was not reserved, but was such land as was authorized
by the New Madrid act to be located, the N'ew Madrid claim
N6. 105 will of course hold valid against either tract in this
category. The fact on this point can be best determined by
the surveyor general .from the records of his office, aided by
those of the recorder. If there beno valid claim to any portion df the residue of the O'Carroll claim, and such. residue was
such land as wa* allowed by the New Madrid act of 17th of
February, 1815, to be located,' on the return here of a proper

SUPREME COURT.
Penn v. Holme.

plat and patent certificate -for said residue, a patent will is
sue."
At this point the entire action of the land department of the
Government terminated. No act is shown by which the extent of the St. Louis common, said to be paramount, was ascertained; no information supplied with respect to the validity
or extent of the conflicting surveys, as called for by the Commissioner; no plat or patent certificate, either for the whole
of the warrant or for any residue to be claimed thereupon,
ever returned to the General Land Office, and no patent issued.
The plaintiff in the Circuit Court founded his claim exclusively
and solely upon the New Madrid warrant.
The inquiry then presents itself, as to who holds the legal
title to the land in question. The answer to this question is,
that the title remains in the original owner, the Government,
until it is invested by the Government in its grantee. This
results from the nature of the case, and is the rule affirmed l y
this court in the case of Bagnall et al. v. Broderick, in which
it is declared, "that Cougress has the sole power to declare the
dignity and effect of titles emanating from the United States;
and the whole legislation of the Government in reference
to the public lands declares the patent to be the superior and
conclusive evidence of the legal title. Until it issues, the fee is
in the Government, which by the patent passes to the grantee,
and he is entitled to enforce the possession in ejectment.
(18 Peters, p. 436.)
A practica has prevailed in some of the States (and amongst
them the State of Missouri) of permitting the action of ejectment to be maintained upon warrants for land, and upon other
titles not complete or legal in their character; but this practice,
as was so explicitly ruled in the case of Bennett v. Butterworth, (11 How.,) can in no wise affect the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States, whojiboth by the Constitution
and by the acts of Congress, are re'quired to observe the distinction between legal and equitable rights, and to enforce
the rules and priinciples of decision appropriate to each.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is to be reversed with
costs.

