DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

343

HcKinlay d al. v. Aforrish et aZ.

A question was raised in the Circuit Court,.as to the effect
of the five years' statutory limitation upon the rights of the
parties; as, for instance, whether that statute would begin to
run from the date of the deed of the sheriff or from the period
of the recording of that deed, or whether it could operate
at all upon a constructive seizin effected by the sheriff's
deed, or required, in order to give it effect, an actual seizin by
the purchaser from the sheriff. This question we do not deem
it necessary, or even regular, in this case to discuss or determine. In the first place, the rulings of the court below with
regard to it were in favor of the plaintiff in error, and therefore can constitute no wrong or gravamen on his part. In the
next place, we.consider that question embraced and concluded,
or rather excluded, by the proceedings in chancery against the
property, and the conlirmation of the title by the decree.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

FINLAY MCKINLAY AND ALEXANDER GARRIOCK, COMPOSING THE
lIRM OF MCEINLAY, GARRIocK,
LIAM MORRISH, MASTER AND

&

Co., APPELLANTS, V. "WI-

CLAIMANT

OF THE SHIP PONS

AELII, ON BEHALF OF ROBERT AND EDWARD FORMBY, OWNERS
OF SAID SHIP.
The rules of pleading in admiralty must be strictly complied with. The evidence
and arguments confined to the points put in issue by the allegations of the
libel and denial of the answer.
Where the allegation of a libel was, that a cargo of soap had been injured by bad
stowage, and by negligence of the captain that he had allowed the seams of the
deck to be in an open and leaking condition, by which water had passed
through them upon the soap, the evidence shows that the cargo was not injured
by bad stowage or leaking from the deck.
The injury to the cargo was caused by the .sweat of the ship, her rocking, the
nature of the compound of soap, and its long agitation in the boxes, to which
it had been subjected in a boisterous passage.
The rule is well established, that a consignee may sue in a court of admiralty,
either in his own name, as agent, or in the name of his principal, as he think
best'

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the -United
States for the districts rf California, sitting in admiralty.

344

SUPREME COURT.
HcKinlay da.
t
v. Morrish et al.

The libel was filed in the District Court for the northern
district of California, which after hearing dismissed the libel;
and upon appeal to the Circuit Court, the decree was affirmed.
The libellants then brought the case to this court.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by fr. Lord for the appellants, and Mr. Brent
and Mr. Johnson for the appellees.
The counsel for the appellants contended that the injury did
not proceed from the gale occurring shortly after the ship left
Liverpool, nor by the heavy weather on the passage around
Cape Horn. From that time until the arrival at San Francisco, they met with no heavy weather. The evidence does
not show that the damage arose from the sweat of the ship.
The perils of the sea not being established, and the cargo being badly damaged, it is for the ship to show everything
well done on her part before she can resort to other causes.
(See 12 Howard, 280.) The ship was bound to show proper
stowage; the evidence is, that the stowage was not proper.
The evidence is, that the damage arose from the want of proper
caulking, and the leaks thus opened by the heat of the long
summer voyage, all which could have been caulked at sea.
The evidence is not satisfactory that the damage arose merely
from the damp of the soap under the ordinary events of such a
voyage.
There is no limitation in the pleadings restricting the libellants in charging the ship as to the cause of the confessedly
damaged condition of the cargo. The ship must affirmatively
both plead and prove her justification.
The counsel for the appellees contended that the consignees
had no right td institute the suit, having repudiated the consignment, and therefore having no interest in the property;
that there was no breach of contract on the part of the ship,
which was stanch and strong when she started, but met with
heavy gales in the Bay of Biscay and at Cape Horn; that the
damage t6 the soap was caused by sweat; that is, by the evap-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

845

McKinlay d a. v. Horris e al.

oration of water in the soap, surrounding the boxes with a
damp, atmosphere; that the soap was an inferior article, and
the voyage unusually long.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the case of a foreign vessel having been libelled in a
port of the United States when about to leave it; her master
having refused to pay for the damage said to have been sustained on a shipment of soap, made at Liverpool, to be carried
to San Francisco, California, via Honolulu. The shipmentwas made by Matthew Steele & Son. It was said in the bill
of lading to be in good order and condition, and the undertaking was to deliver it so to Messrs. McKinlay, Garriock, & Co-,
or to their assigns.
The consignees libelled the ship, alleging that, though they*
were always willing to receive the shipment in good order, the
master of the ship had not made it, and that they had refused
to receive it, on, account of the injury it had sustained from a
want of proper care in loading, storing, landing, re-landing,
and re-storing the soap, and owing to the careless, negligent,
and improper manper of storing it under the deck of the ship,
which was open and leaky, through which water passed, and
damaged it to the amount of nine thousand five hundred dollars.
The respondent meets the charges by a direct denial of
them, averring if the soap had been in any way injured, it may
have been from causes beyond his control by any care whatever, and should be attributed to causes or perils excepted td,
as they were expressed in the bill of lading, viz: "all and
every danger and accident of the seas and navigation of whatsoever nature." The respondent also declares that his ship
was, at the time of her sailing from Liverpool, in good, tight,
and strong condition, well manned, and that her cargo was
well dunnaged and stowed; but that, in the course of the passage to Honolulu, she encountered heavy. storms and gales,
which strained and caused her to leak and had compelled him
to throw overboard a part of the cargo, for the preservation of
the ret of it, and of the vessel; and'that during the passage

SUPREME COURT.
.f'cKirday el at. v. MornA e al.

he had used every precaution to preserve the cargo that was
within his power and that of his officers and crew.
The libel and answer are directly at issue, and no answer
can be made more responsively to the charges in a -bill than
this is.
Accordingly, then, to the rules of pleading in admiralty,
there is no necessity for doing so; nor are we permitted to
consider much of the testimony in this record. When litigants make their case in express allegations and by express
denials of them, and then introduce testimony inapplicable to
the issues they have made, it is not a part of the case, unless
as it shall inferentially bear upon other evidence properly in
it, upon which the parties rely for the determination of their
controversy. This case furnishes as apt an illustration of the
rule just mentioned as can be given. The libellants put their
case upon bad and careless stowage, &c., of the soap, and upon
leaks in the deck of the ship, through which water passed and
damaged it. The respondent denies both; but he goes on to
state that his ship was tight and strong for the voyage when
he left Liverpool, and both parties question the witnesses as to
that fact; though the libellants had not charged that their
goods had been injured from that cause, and had not put in
issue at all the soundness and seaworthiness of the ship for the
voyage she was about to make. This same point of pleading
was before this court in the case of Lawrence v. Minturn, 17
Howard, 100, 110, 111, which was as learnedly argued, and as
deliberately decided, as any other case in admiralty has been
in our time. This court then said: "We find the conduct of
the master in making the jettison to have been lawful; and
the remaining inquiry is, whether the necessity for it is to be
attributed to any fault on the part of the master or owners.
The libel alleges the loss of the goods to have been through
the mere carelessness (just as the libel in this case does) and
misconduct of the master and mariners. We were at first inclined to the opinion that this allegation is not broad enough
to put in issue what the libellants have at the hearing so much
insisted upon, and what we think is the main question in this
part of the case, the sufficieney of the ship to carry the cargo. It

DEOEMBER TERM, 1858.

347

.McKWay e al. v. fforris el al.

is no doubt the general rule, that the owner warrants his ship
to be seaworthy for the voyage with the cargo contracted for.
But a breach of this implied contract of the owner does not
amount to negligence or want of skill of the master and mariners. There would be much difficulty, therefore, in maintaining, as a general proposition; that an allegation of negligence
of the inaster would let in the libellant to prove unseaworthiness of the vessel." And in the next paragragh of that opinion, page 111, it will be seen that the rule of pleading in such
cases was not enforced only upon the ground that the inquiry
in that case necessarily led to an examination whether the jettison,was occasioned by the negligence of the master in overloading
the ship.
It was a nice distinction, but a true one, and it will have its
"influence hereafter upon other cases having the same difficulties as that had. It has been adverted to, to warn the profession that the irregularities of pleading in admiralty, now too
frequently occurring, have attracted our attention, and will be
treated hereafter according to the rules and practice for pleadings .and proofs -inadmiralty cases. Without doing so, the
jurisdiction of admiralty may often be practically extended
to controversies not belonging to it; and though. that may be
inadvertently done, it will not be the less mischievous.
With this rule in view, we will not examine much of the
testimony in the case before us, though it was made much of
the argument of the respective counsel representing the parties. It excludes from the merits of the case all in the record
relating to the storm in the Bay of Biscay, the lak which it
caused, and the repair of -it. 'Both parties have treated it, by
their pleadings, as having in no way caused any damage to
the soap; also, the storm which afterwards tried the seaworthiness of the ship to the utmost, when she was weathering Cape
11orn, without any diminution of it, except so far as to inquire
if it could have been that the seas which she therf shipped had
damaged the soap, by the water passing through the seams of a
deck imperfectly caulked. And we exclude, also, all that testi"monymade up.of the opinions of supposed experts in regard
to the-'causes of the alteration in the. quality of the soap, ex-

-848

SUPREME COURT.
McKinky et al. v. Morrish et aZ.

cepting such of them as are sustained by facts which have the
character of legal proof.
By treating the case in this way, the controversy becomes
exclusively one upon the alleged want of proper care in stowing, &c., the soap; and upon the charge made against the captain of the ship, that he had negligently allowed the seams of
her deck to be in an open and leaking condition, by which
water had passed throbgh them upon the soap.
Our examination of the case has been made accordingly. It
will be found to coincide with the admissions made in his argument by the learned counsel of the appellants. Two of his
points were, that the injury or change in the quality of the
soap was not owing to the effects of the gale occurring in the
Bay of Biscay, shortly after the ship left Liverpool, though it
had produced a leak; next, that the heavy weather on the passage around Cape Horn did not produce any leak nor do any
injury to the tightness of the ship, reserving, however, the
charge that the water which she then shipped had passed
through the leaks in her deck, and damaged the soap. Then,
after stating other propositions of obligation upon the ship,
before she could be released from liability, and omissions of
duty by the captain, and the proofs which were necessary to
excuse them, which he contended had not been made, the case
was put altogether upon bad stowage, and the leaks in the deck,
as both had been alleged in the libel.
First, as to the stowage. Two witnesses were examined,
both of them professing to know how soap in boxes should be
stowed for a long passage. They say that the stowage was
improper, on account of the boxes having been placed or piled
in tiers in one part of the ship, and that they were stowed up
to the main deck, and not chocked. One of them added, that
regard should be had, in stowing, to the nature of the goods
to be stowed; that soap should not be stowed in so solid a bulk
as this was, but should have been distributed more over the
ship. Waterman, another witness, who had never seen thd
ship, and of course knew nothing of the stowage, merely said
that soap stowed twenty-five tiers deep, he should think was
badly stowed, and would be apt to be injured. Such is the

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.;

849

XcKidav q. al. v. Horris el al.

whole of the testimony to prove bad stowage in this case,
unless the opinions of other witnesses, expressed in the course
of their examination, without any facts having been given by
them to sustain their opinions, are taken as evidence. On the
other hand', Nicholson, a man of more than thirty years' experience as a nautical man, who visited the ship by the invitation of
the port warden, to examine the soap, and who went into the
bold for that purpose, says, in answer to the question, "1How
was the cargo stowed? Some of the boxes appeared to me to
be re-stowed. I do not think the upper part was the original
stowage. There were a great number of them in sight, and
the cargo seemed to me to be very well stowed." Noyes, who
was called upon, as port warden, to survey the .ship, and two
days afterwards to survey the cargo, says the soap was stowed
in the after part of the ship, abaft the after hatch. It was all
stowed together, and well stowed. Then Lowry, the stevedore
who discharged the cargo of the ship, who saw her hatches
opened, says the soap was well stowed.
There are differences between the witnesses as to the stowage of the soap, but not contradictory assertions. As to credit,
they stand alike. But there is a distinction in their declara-.
tions, which, with us, is conclusive. The three first named
speak of the manner of stowage, with reference to the effect
which might be produced upon soap in boxes, stowed in a vessel in tiers, as these boxes were. Without a word of proof
from themselves, or from any one else, or-from Mr. McCulloch, the chemist, who was called upon by the libellants to
analyze the soap as it then was, to show the correctness of the
apprehension or opinion of the witnesses, that, from the compositiofi of soap, it was liable to deterioration from being stowed
in a mass in the hold of a vessel, and without any evidence that
it was customary to stow soap, in boxes, differently. The other
three witnesses speak of it as a nautical stowage, and, without
any qualification, say that the soap was well stowed. Our.conclusiog is, that the soap was not injured as a consequence from
having been stowed as it was:
We proceed to the consideration of the second charge in'the
libel. It is also an imputation of negligence upon the captain

SUPREME COURT.
MkKinlay el al. v.

Horrish d al.

of the ship. It is, that the soap had been injured by the deck
having been allowed by him to remain in an open and leaking
condition, whereby the water thrown or falling on it passed
through upon the soap beneath. It is indefinite as to the time
when the leaking of the deck occurred, and uncertain as to the
extent of it, but determinate enough to suggest the kind and
quantity of testimony which is necessary to sustain such charge
in the circumstances under which it has been made. The seaworthiness of the ship when she began the voyage not having
been questioned in the libel, it must be taken that she was
tight in her deck when she left Liverpool, and, if she became
otherwise afterwards, that it must have occurred when she was
at sea. There is no direct proof of it in the record, nor any
cause, from tempest or storm, from which such an injury to the
ship can be presumed. The burden of proof of such an allegation is upon the libellants, and the testimony to sustain it must
be positive, or so violently presumptive as to be sufficient, by
the rules of evidence, to supply the want of direct proof. Here
there is no proof, positive or presumptive, when, where, or
from what cause, the leaking of the deck happened, or had
been made. None that it had been, or might have been, occasi6ned by any straining of the ship from the stQrms which
she had encountered on her passage. Indeed, that is disclaimed.
None that the oakum with which her decks were caulked had
washed out of the seams of it, or that it had shrunk so as to
leave. them open. And it was only suggested that they were
opened by the heat of a long summer passage, and that they
could have been recaulked after.
The suggestion is in opposition to the proofs in the case.
The ship sailed from Liverpool on the 26th of September,
stanch and tight, and arrived at Valparaiso on the 26th or the
27th of January following, just four months and a day from
the time of her sailing. The slight injuries which she suffered
from the storm in the Bay of Biscay, and those encountered
off Cape Horn, were repaired at Valparaiso. Thence she went
to Honolulu, on the 28th of February, where she was twentyfour days, and caulked there her top-sides and water-ways, and
she arrived at San Francisco on the 7th June, having had fine

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

,51

MfcKinlay et a. v.fofmis et al.

weather all the way from Valparaiso. But it is proved that
the soap could not have been injured from any leaks in her
top-sides or water-ways, as the tiers of boxes next to them on
either side were in a better condition than those which had
been piled further off. These dates show that the ship had. not
-a longer passage to Valparaiso than is usual at the time of
year when she was making it;. also, that it had been made
through different latitudes, without encountering any great
continuous heats-certainly not such as could have had the
effect to displace or shrink the caulking of the deck into leaking, which is not denied to have been good and tight whexi the
ship left Liverpool. It is not probable that such an exposure
for so short a timd had forced her deck seams. Besides, it has
not been shown by any reliable testimony that there had been,
at any tme when the ship was on her way to Valparaiso, any
leaking from her deck, or any such afterwards, until her arrival in San Francisco, from which by any possibility, the soap
could have been injured in the way and to the extent it was
represented to have been by some of the witnesses, who ex-:
pressed the opinion that there had been leaks in the deck.
of the ship, throhgh which salt water had leaked upon the
soap. Indeed, it appears to us that all of the witnesses who
said so, did it rather by way of inference from the caulking
which another witnetss said had been done to the ship, and
from the condition in which the soap was, than from an exam.
ination of the, ship. Thewitness Goodsell, more relied upon
than any other witness to prove the leaks in. the deck; does
not do so satisfactorily from the 'usual examination made by
shipwrights when they are called upon to ascertaii such a fact.
He says: "I found the poop-deck, lately caulked, leaking on
larboard side-six on starboard and one seam about half on
the starboard side, to main deck, I should think that the waterway seams, plank-shear seams, and one or two seams inside to
main deck, or main deck, looked as if water had run down into
the hold of the ship on both sides." He adds, he went into
the hold of the ship and examined the under part of the deck.
"I saw indiedlions of the deck having leaked in the wake of the
seams I have been speaking of; they ooked as if they had leaked

SUPREME COURT.
.AIcKinlay et al. v. Aforrish dt a7-

all along, but more abaft than forward of the main deck."
This is very uncertain testimony; more of opinion than fact in
it, even as to the caulking of which he speaks, and the result
of all that he says concerning the seams below the deck, has
more of inspection in it than of examination. The difference
between them will readily be recognised from the positive language of two other witnesses, who say.they examined the
seams of .the deck below with their knives, and found them
hard; one of them adding, it is impossible for a man to tell,
after two or three weeks, whether a vessel is newly caulked,
without trying her seams. Lowry, the stevedore who discharged the cargo, upon being asked if he had seen any traces
of salt water in the top of the boxes of the soap, or on the ceiling
of the deck, answers that he had not, but that he saw some
places marked with chalk by some persons; that he tried them
with his knife, and found them perfectly tight. Such is the
testimony in the case, concerning the charge in the libel that
the soap had beendamaged by leaks in the deck of the ship,
which her captain had neglected to have caulked. In our
opinion, it is altogether insufficient. Noyes, the port warden,
who surveyed the ship, says he could find no leaks over or
above where the soap was, that he could discover. Ie also
saw no traces of the deck having been recently caulked. Indeed, there is not a witness who has aid that there were leaks
in the deck. Several express the opinion that there were, from
the discoloration of the boxes on them outside, and from that
of the soap in them. Goodsell ventures further than any other
witness, to cause such an impression; but his language is, "I
should think," and it "looked" to him as if water had run
down into the hold from the water-way seams, the plank-shear
seams, and one or two seams inside, to deck or main deck.
This conjectural way of speaking by a witness must yield to
the positive declarations of Nicholson, Lowry, and Noyes.
Having determined that the soap had not been injured by
bad stowage or leaking from the deck, we will now briefly state
to what causes its altered condition should be attributed. We
have concluded that its discoloration and dampness are to be
found in the acknowledged facts and proofs in the cause. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

.853

.MKinlay et d. v. Horrishtdl.

shipment was made at Liverpool on the 21st June, and was on
board of the ship for a year, less fourteen days. After the shipment and stowage, the ship remained all of the summer at the
dock in Liverpool. She sailed on the 26th of September..
From that time the ship's hatches were closed until her arrival
at Honolulu, in February. They were then opened for the
purpose of discharging a part of the cargo which had been
shipped for Honolulu. To do that, itwas necessary to remove
about three hundred boxes of the soap from their stowage, and
to land them. They were taken to the ship, re-stowed as they
had been at first, and it does not appear by any evidence that
it had been perceived at Honolulu by any one that this upper
tier so removed had been injured, or that the boxes had then
any appearance of water having leaked upon them. The ship'
sailed from Honolulu and arrived at San Francisco on the 7th
June. From the,day of her sailing, the 26th-September, she
was at no time within such a temperature of heat as would of
itself have impaired the quality of the soap. From England,
in 100 north of the equator, the average temperature from the
time of her sailing is 620. Ten degrees north and south of the
equator the average temperature for the months of September
and October is 810.
The average temperature in November is about 410, and that
of'Valparaiso is about 620. These averages of temperature
are taken from the most approved charts, and are decisive that
the soap has not been injured by the temperatures through
which the ship passed on her passage to Valparaiso. From that
port the.ship came to Honolulu, a distance not much] short of
six thousand miles, in the most favorable weather, without encountering heavy seas or head winds. She made that'distance
in the usual time, f6rty-five or fifty days. Honolulu is in the
latitude of 210 19' noith, longitude 157' 52' west. Nor are
the temperatures such between Yalparaiso and Honolulu* as
could have produced any change in the condition of the soap.
From Honolulu the usual run to San Francisco is from fifteen
to twenty days. As a general rule, the course of ships bound
from the first to San Francisco would be to the northward of
it, to be sure of good winds. In the absence, then, of other
28
VOL. xxi.

SUPREME COURT.
McKilay e al. v. Hfon'ish et al.

probable causes, to account for the change in the. quality of the
soap, we rhust resort to the proo1A on the record, and f'om
them we have concluded that the soap was injured by the temperature of the ship's hold, or what is called the sweat of the
ship, which no mode of ventilation, consistent with safe navi
gation, has yet been thought sufficient to prevent. In this
particular the ship was not more liable from defective construction to this vapor than merchant vessels ordinarily are. H1er
hatchways were good, the covers for them are not complained
6f; her hatch-bars and tarpaulings-were sufficient, or they are
not denied-to have been so; and it has not been suggested that
they were not all applied to cover the hatchways, and to protect the cargo from sea-water and raiii. Nor is this sweat in
ships any mystery to practical seamen. They term it to be
vapor emitted from the mixed cargoes of ships by the heat of
the hold of a ship, cast off sometimes only in fumes, at other
times in steam, which shows itself in the latter case sometimes
in drops of water in the same way as rain is produced from
vapor. Several of the witnesses-all of them were accustomed
to the sea-say, that the sweat of this vessel caused the
discoloration of this soap. Besides, it was a second-class article, differing originally in color from a first-rate article of the
same kind. It is true that the chemist who analyzed it says
that it had been made of good materials, and was well saponiflied, and he says that sweat is a mere crolution of water in a
state of vapor; and that the boxes could not have been stained
in that way, and that they were stained by some external means.
But the proofs in the case show that there was no leakage il
the deck by which water could have passed upon them; it must
yield to the declarations of those witnesses better acquainted
than he is, from their professional acquaintance with the effects
of the sweat of the soap upon these cases. We unhesitatingly
ascrilbe the discoloration and dampness of the soap to therocking of the ship, the nature of the compound of soap, and to.the
long agitation of the soap in the boxes to which it had beensubjected in a bbistero'us passage. The devaporation of watei
from the vapor of the soap itself, with which it is cleansed in
the making, heated by the sweat of the ship, would. be coil-

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
.AcKiday el al. v.

855

~oTrrish et al.

centrated in the boxes, upon the sdap, and would discolor it
and make it danp, without any sensible diminution of its
weight; and we ave confirmed in this conclusion by the witnesses who examined and weighed it, having testified that the
boxes were of the same weight marked upon them when they
were shipped at Liverpool. We feel bound to notice one point
made in the argument of the cause by the counsel of the appellees, which is not An open question in this qourt. It was, that
the appellants had lo legal title to maintain their libel. In the
case of iouseman r. The Schooner "Noitlh Carolina," (15 Pet.,
49,) the same objection was made. This court.said: "An objection has been taken to the right of the appellee to sue in
his own nanie, as agent for the consign'es, or to 'sue at all, as

his po.ver of attorney:"from them bears date after the libel was
filed; -and it is also objectec., that J. & C. Lawton, the con-!
signees, had no right to institute proceedings to recover more
than their proportion of the cargo shipped on their own account.
No authority has been. produced in support of thee objections,
and we consider it as well s~ttled in admiralty proceedings,
that the agent of absent owners nmaylibel, either in his own
name, as agent, or in the name of his principals, as he thinks
best; that the power of attorney, subsequent to the libel, is a
sufficient ratification of what he had done in their behalf, and
that the consignees have such an interest in the'whole cargo;
that they maT proceed in this case, not only for what belonged
to themiand was shipped on their account, but for that portion
also which was shipped by Porter, as his own, and consigned
to' them." The, same conclusion was repeated in 17 Howard,
Lawrence and Miturn, without any qualification, as we understand that case. In the first as well as'in the second of these
cases, the point was put on the interest which a consignee has
in the consignment, as consignee, and not as owner of any part
,of it; that, from the nature of the contract of a bill of lading,
the consignee had a right to sue, in a court of admiralty, for
any breach of it. 'Whatever may be the uncertainty concerning the consigneeds right to/sue in a court of law, from the conflicting decisions to be found upon that right, there, are none
that he may. sue in a court of admiralty in the United States.

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. City Bank of Columbms.

When that case, however, occurs in this court, it will be decided; and we now merely remark that, from our examination
of most of the cases in the common-law reports, upon the facts
of those cases, we have been brought to the conclusion that
there is no rule of general application as to when the consignor
or consignee should bring the suit at common law, but that it
will always be important to consider in whom the right of property, and sometimes in whom the right of possession, was
vested at the time of the breach of the con'tract or neglect of
duty which is complained, of.
We direct the affirmance of the decree from which this appeal
was taken.
Mr. Justice iNELSON dissented.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. TH
oF COLUMBUS.

CIT BA ]K

Where the cashier of a bank wrote to the Secretary of the Treasury, saying that
the bearer of the letter was authorized to contract for the transfer of money
from New York to New Orleans, and such a transaction was not within the
scope of the powers of the cashier, nor authorized by the directors, the bank
was not bound to reimburse the money which the Secretary of the Treasury
advanced.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the southern district of Ohio.
The facts of the case and also the instructions given to the
jury upon the trial are all set forth in the cipinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Hull and Mlr. Black (Attorney General) for the United States, and by Mr. Stanbery for the defendant.
The Attorney General contended that it might be true that
the cashier had no power to make the appointment, yet the
directors had such power, and the cashier's letter may-fairly

