SUPREME COURT.
While Water Valley Canal Company v. Valet etal.

None of these documents are to be found in the public archives. No trace of the evidence on which these titles depend
is exhibited in any of the records of that State. The consideration on which they were made have no reference to the colonization laws of Mexico. The promises of Micheltorena to
Sutter, and through Sutter to the foreign volunteers, did not
confer a title to any part of the public domain, nor perfect any
incipient pretension into a vested interest. The parties looked
to the contingency of a suppression of the revolt and the maintenance of the power of the Governor for the fulfilment of these
promises. In this they were disappointed. The paper remained in the possession of Sutter for nearly fifteen months
after the defeat and abdication of Micheltorena, before he gave
a copy to Danbenbiss.
For these reasons, and others contained in the opinion of the
court in the case of the United States v. Nye, it is the judgment of the court that the claim presented by the appellee is
invalid. The decree of the District Court of the United States
for the northern district of California is reversed, and the cause
remanded to that court, with directions to that court to dismiss
the petition.
THE WHITE WATER VALLEY CANAL COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V.
HENRY VALLETTE AND OTHERS.
Bonds issued by a canal company, pledging the real and personal property of
the company for the payment of the debt and interest, and containing other
corresponding stipulations, will be treated by a court of equity as a mortgage,
and enforced according to the intention of the contracting parties.
Bonds issued in payment for the completion of the canal were not usurious by
the laws of Indiana, although they purport to be for a loan, and although the
sum for which they were issued was largely greater than the estimated cost of
the work.
The power to issue these bonds is derived from the charter of the company.
Moreover, the contract was sanctioned by a special law of the State. And if
the contract had been originally illegal, this law of the State would have prevented either party from setting up the illegality as a defence.
The decree of the Circuit Court, appointing a receiver, &c., is therefore affirmed.

THIS case originated in the Cir&iit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.

DECEM- ER TERM, 1858.

415

White Water Valle Canal Company v. Yallete d al.

It was a bill filed on the equity side of the court, by Vallette,
a citizen of Ohio, against the White Water Valley Canal Company, a corporation created by a law of the State of Indiana.
The whole suit was conducted according to the rules of a court
of chancery. After the decree, the company prayed an appeal in open court, filed. a bill of exceptions, which was allowed and signed by the district judge, and upon this a writ of

error was sued out.
The nature of the contract and form of the bonds are set
forth in the opinion of the court.
The heading of the bonds was as follows, viz:
UNITED STATES oF AmERICA,

State of Indiana.
No. 18.
$1,000.
Company.
Valley
Canal
The White Water
Canal Loan. Seven per cent. bond under the act of the
General Assembly of the State of Indiana, entitled "An act
to incorporate the White Water Valley Canal Company,"
January 20, 1842.
lnow all men by these presents, that there is due from
"the White Water Valley Canal Company" to Henry Vallette,
or bearer, the sum of, &c., &c.
The case was was argued by Mr. McLean and Mr. Stanbery
for the appellants, and AXr. Swayne and Mr. -Ewing for the appellees. Upon this side there was also a brief filed by Mr.
Fox.
The counsel for the appellant contended:
1. -That there was no power to issue bonds which should
claim priority, by way of mortgage, over all other creditors.
They admitted the right of these bondholders to come in
amongst the other creditors, but denied their claim to exclusiveness.
2. That the bargain was, too hard, because the bonds were
issued for twice the amount which had been expended in finishing the canal.
Upon the first point, they referred to the difference between

SUPREME COURT.
Whzi

Water Valley Canal Company v. Vallet

et al.

the original and amended bill filed by Vallette; the original
having placed the transaction upon the footing of a loan under
the 18th section of the charter, whilst the amended bill placed
it upon the footing of a contract made for finishing the work.
The power to mortgage was denied, because it included a
power to sell, and in this case the company wa-s a mere trustee
created by the State to finish a work in which the State had
already invested a million of dollars. The State reserved the
right to redeem the canal upon certain conditions, which right
was incompatible with a power in the company to mortgage
and sell, and thus forever alienate the whole work. When
sold, how could an individual purchaser carry it on ? Could
he exercise the power of eminent domain, of crossing public
highways, and of making penal statutes necessary to continue
the operation of the canal? Other parts of the charter were
inconsistent with the alleged power of the company to sell out,
or do anything which might lead to selling out, the whole concern. The grant of power in the 18th section carries with it
an inference that the same power is not granted in any other
section of the charter. The law of 1845, legalizing the bonds;
was only intended to sanction the payment of seven per cent.
- interest, which is proved by that part of the preamble which
says, "whereas doubts are entertained as to the legality of the
issue of such bonds under the present interest laws of the State."
The contract was a very onerous one. In it there is
nothing said about giving this debt a priority over all other
debts; but Vallette appeared to look for his profit in the fact
of receiving bonds for double the amount which it would cost
to finish the .canal. The company had already paid upwards
of $75,000 upon account of these bonds, whereas the money
expended by Vallette was only $56,000. At the most, there
'was only an agreement to give him a mortgage, which, not
being executed, ought not to exclude other creditors whose
claims are perfectly fair dnd bona fide. When the company
made this bargain, it was in great straits for money, and Vallette took an unconscientious advantage of a necessitous debtor.
Authorities were adduced to sustain the following proposi
tions, viz:

DECEMBE

TERM, 1858.

White Water Vally (ana Company v. ValUe et a7.

1. Corporations are strictly limited to the exercise of those
powers which are expressly granted to them, or are necessarily
incident either to the purposes of their, existence, or to the
proper enjoyment of their express. powers.
2. An express grant of a specific power, in one section of a
charter, is a prohibition against the exercise of the same power
by implication from the provisions of another section.
3. The express grant of a specific pbwer is -restrictive in its
operation, and not only must the occasion for its exercise arise,
but the method and manner of its execution 'must be strictly
adhered to, according to the terms of the grant, or its exercise
is a nullity.
4th. A corporation may deny the validity of any contract
which it may have entered into without authority for so doing
under its charter. (4 Peters; 164; 2. Cranch, 127; 9 Howard,
172; 13 Peters, 518; 7 Ohio, part 1, 232; 8 Ohio, 252, 286,
et seq. ; 15 Johnson, 358 ; 2 Co'wen, 678; 5 Connecticut, 560;
7 'Wendell, 81; 8 Gill and Johnson, 248; 5 Barbour, 613.)
The points made by Mr.Ewiig and Mr. Swayne were the
following:
We will not discuss the question whether this is or is not a
loan of money. It is a matter of no importance. Parties and
counsel may give it what name they please.
I. Whatever be its name, the transaction is one which does
not bring the case within the usury laws.
It is a contract to constfruct the canal At specified prices) and
receive .therefor payment in bonds of the company.
The work at the contract prices amounted to $112,000. It
was -paid for in the bonds of the com'pany, according to the
contract.
Much better 'terms could have been got, if the company had
had cash to pay. But, in the. exchange of work for bonds, it.
was the best that could be done.
There was no money passed between the parties in the transaction. Vallette-did the work under a contract, and took a
lien on the work to secure the payment of his bonds.
It isin equity just what the contract' of a builder would be,
27
VOL. XXI.

SUPREME COURT.
White Water Yalley Canal Company v. Vallefte et al.

who should contract for a lien on the rents of the house which
he should build, until paid.
And it would not interfere at all with the builder's equity,
if he demanded a higher price, payable in bonds at a distant
day, than if he were to be paid in cash; and especially if the
payment for his work depended on the productiveness of the
property covered by equitable mortgage, subject to loss by
flood and fire. If we did but know how much it would have
cost him to insure the claim, we might determine whether the
dontract was reasonable.
Until this matter is settled, as the agreement was made be.
tween parties entirely competent to contract, we must presume
it to be so.
II. It is no matter whether this be a loan or not.
1. The corporation had a right by its general powers, independently of the 18th section, to make this contract, and to
pledge the tolls, &c., of the canal for the payment.
It creates a lien that equity will enforce.
2. The contract comes within the reason and spirit of the
18th section. If the company is thereby authorized to pledge
the tolls, &c., of the canal for the repayment of money bor
rowed fo cdnstruct, it is also authorized to make the pledge for
construction directly.
They may pledge for the loan, because it constructs the
canal. It is a workman's lien. But instead of pledging to the
contractor, the pledge is to the lender, whose money pays him.
If the contractor furnish the money to pay himself, may they
not pledge to him? To deny it would be a mere verbal criticism-a sticking in the bark.
I. But the act of January 4th, 1845, removes all possible
difficulty, if there were any, after the contract was made and
executed by Vallette; it sanctions the contract, and makes
valid all bonds which shall be issued in pursuance of it.
If the company had not the power already to issue these
bonds, their issue after the act is an acceptance of it.
Other points are made by the answers, but they are wholly
unsustained by the testimony, and are not referred to in the
brief for the appellant. We understand they will not be relied

419

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
Wlite Wakr VaZIW Cana Company v. VaIe

d A.

-upon in the argument at the bar. We deem it unnecessary,
therefore, to advert to them.
In addition to the authorities cited in the. brief of our colleague, Mr. Fox, we shall refer to the following:
1. James v. P. and H. R. R. Co., (6 Amer. Law Register,
718.) Where a charter directs the mode of exercising given powers, that part of the statute is directory, and a departure from
the mode prescribed does not in any wise invalidate the acts
of the corporation. See also the authorities cited upon this
point in the opinion of the court.
2. Thompson v. N. Y. and I. R.R.-Co., (8 Sandford Ch.
Rep., 626.) "A corporation authorized by law to build a bridge
at a given point may buy one already built at the same point,
if suitable for their purpose." Syllabus.
3. Palmer v. Lawrence, (3Sandf. Law Rep., 162.) ".A party
will not be permitted to rescind a contract, the fruits of which
he retains, and can never be compelled to restore." Syllabus.
4. Steam 1Kav. Co. v. Weed, (17 Barbour, 378.) "1Where it
is a simple question of capacity to contract, arising either on a
question of regularity of organization or of powers conferred, by
the charter, a party who has had the benefit of the contract, in
an action founded upon it, is not allowed to question its validity." Syllabus. See also Sedgwick on Construction, p. 90.
5. This doctrine applies alike, whether the*corporation or
the individual contracted with be the party sought to be
charged. (Moss v. Rossie Lead M. Co., 5 Hill, 137; Steam K.
Co. v. Weed, 17 Barb., 378.)
The case last cited will be found to contain a very fill collection and able analysis of all.the leading authorities upon this
subject.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This controversy originated in a contract between the appellants and the appellee, (Vallette,) in which the latter agreed to
complete that portion of the canal through the valley of White
Water river that lies between the cities'of Laurel and Cambridge, in Indiana..
In the year 1836, the State of Indiana-projected the improve-

SUPREME COURT.
White Water Valley Canal Company v. Yallette et al.

mient of which this is a part, and prosecuted the work until
1842, at an expenditure cf more than one million of dollars.
In that year the appellants were incorporated, and the State
surrendered the unfinished work to them, investing them with
powers to continueit till ito. completion. In 1844 this corporation became embarrassed in their affairs, and were unable to
negotiate loans upon the pledge.of their property. Their resources were inadequate to the demands of their enterprise, and
there was fear that it would be abandoned, or at least inconveniently postponed. In July, 1844, the president of the company applied to the appellee (Vallette) for assistance, and the
reshlt of their negotiation was, that the latter submitted a proposal to the company to supply materials and to complete at
his expense the canal, according to the plan of the chief engineer, by the 1st of September, 1845,. for ofie hundred and
twenty-five bonds of the company, of $1,000 each, upon ten
years' time, drawing interest at seven per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually, he (Vallette) to pay in the paper of the
company $500 as a bonus.
This proposal was accepted, and a detailed contract was
drawn out and executed, embracing some modifications not
material to this dispute. The appellee agreed to construct in
a substantial and workmanlike manner the sections of the
canal, under the directions of the chief engineer, and according
to particular specifications. The engineer was to decide
whether the work had been performed agreeably to contract
and the instructions of the engineer; and payment was to be
made upon his certificate of the work done at the end of every
sixty days. The contract was punctually performed by the
appellee to the satisfaction of the company, and upon a .final
settlement one hundred and sixteen bonds of $1,000 each were
issued to him, one hundred and twelve bearing date the 1st of
February, 1845, with interest at the rate of seven pei cent. per
annum, payable semi-annually at New York, the principal to
be paid at ten years. from date. These bonds contain recitals.
and stipulations as follows: That the principal sum is the first
and only loan created by the company under their charter for
the completion Qf the canal; that the -faith of the company and

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.
"W7'it Water Valley Canal Corparty.
oamlee

et al.

their effects, real and personal, are pledged for the payment of
the debt and interest; that these bonds shall have a preference
over all debts to -be thereafter contracted; that in default of
the payment of interest, the holder of the bonds might eiater
into possession of the tolls, water rents, and other incomes of
the company; and might apply to any court of the State (Federal or State) for the appointment of a receiver, and that the
company would not appeal to any other court; that they would
pay ten per cent. as liquidated damages on the amount of the
interest thus collected. The interest on these bonds was paid
until August, 1854, since when the corporation has been in
default.
The appellees hold the one hundred and twelve bonds above
described, and have filed this bill to enforce the covenants they
covtain by the appointment- of a receiver. They allege that
the company is insolvent; that its stock has no value, and that
the canal is exposed to dilapidation and ruin, and they have no
ability to remedy such disasters.
The defendants resist the demand of the appellees. They
aver that the president of the company applied to Vallette for
"a loan of money; that Vallette was willing to advance the suni
required, if he could make a profit of one hundred per cent.,
and the president and directors were ready to concede this
profit. That the contract was made between them as a device
and contrivance to evade the laws of Indiana upon the subject
of interest and usury, and that the contract between the parties in its essence and spi4t was a loan of money at that exorbitant and usurious rate of interest. That the work was done
by the company through the superintendence of their engineer,
andthat Vallette paid out the money tb contractors merely to
secure its appropriation to-the improvement of the canal to
strengthen his security. That the amount expended was but
$56,000, and the estimates of the engineer prior to the making
of the contract did not exceed .$65,000; and that the contract
was arranged so that the profit of one huihdred per cent. might
be realized.
They complain that the exactions of the appellee were exorbitant and oppressive. That the canal -has been exposed to

SUPREME COURT.
While Water 'alley Canal Company v. "Fallelteet al.

disasters from heavy floods, and. a debt has been created for
reparations and improvements that is superior _n dignity and
merit to that of the appellee, and that he had waived his preference
to induce them to make the advance.
In the
absence of objections to the validity of these
bonds,
there can be no question concerning their legal operation and
effect, or of the jurisdiction of a court of equity to enforce them.
That court treats an agreement for a mortgage or pledge of
bonds, or other property, as binding, and will give it effect
according to the intention of the contracting parties. (Duncan
v. The Company of Proprietors of the Manchester Water Works,
8 Pri., 697; Fector v. Philpott, 12 Pri., 197; Seymour v. Canandaigua and N. F. R. R. Co., 25 Barb., 284.)
In Fripp v. Chard Railway Company, (21 Law and Eq., 53,)
the Vice Chancellor decided that the court of chancery might
appoint a receiver of the property of a corporation created by
act of Parliament in favor of a mortgagee, although by the act
a committee was constituted to whom all the powers of management were referred. And at the present term of this court
a receiver for the tolls of a bridge erected by a corporation in
Indiana was allowed by this court in favor of a judgment creditor, whose legal remedy had been exhausted. (Covington
Drawbridge Company v. Shepherd, 21 How.)
The question then arises, whether the contract between these
parties, as disclosed by the pleadings and proofs, is valid. It
is essential to the nature of usury 'in Indiana, that.a certain
gain exceeding the legal rate of interest should accrue to thie
lender as a consideration for the loan. Where there is no loan
there can be no usury. (State Bankv. Coquillard, 6 Ind., 232.)
And where there is a loan, although the profit derived to the
lender exceeds the legal rate, yet if that profit is contingent or
uncertain, the contract, if bona fide and without any design to
evade the statute, is not usurious. (Cross v. Hepner, 7 Ind.,

357.)
The testimony does not support the averment of the answer,
that this contract involved a device or contrivance to elude the
prohibition of the statute. The presidenu of the corporation
(Mr. Helm). testifies: "I know nothing of any such device or

DEGEINBER TERM, 1858.

423

White Wrater Talley Canal Company v. 'aFete et al.

arrangement; I thought it Was all right; and there 'vas none,
so far as I know or believe, to evade the usury laws of Indiana;
nor was there any device or arrangement to cover up a loan of
money from Vallette to said company, as I know of no such
loan." The testimony of the"solicitor of the corporation, (Mr.
Parker,) who superintended all the negotiations, and drew the
papers, is equally explicit. " He says: "I am satisfied there
was no device or management had or intended between said
Vallette and the canal ccmpany, in the matter of this contract
or otherwise, whatever, in this connectiof, to avoid any usury
laws of the State of Indiana, or any other State. I never
thought of such a thing myself, and never had an intimation
of it from any other source; and had there been anything of
the kind, I would certainly have known it, as I have said the
whole matter in every shape it assumed was presented to me
for my consideration. Vallette had all the risk of his contract
on his own hands, until completed and taken off his hands by
the company. And I have a strong impression in my own
mind, that in one if not more instances he suffered by that risk
in consequence of damage done his work, while in progress, by
high waters." In the absence of simulation in the contract,
the reason assigned in the last sentences quoted from the testimony of this witness is conclusive on the question of the usury.
These witnesses are sustained by their fellow-members of the
board. The recital in the bonds, that this was a loan, is explained by the fact that the form of the bonds was settled after
the work was finished, and with reference to their negotiability in New York, and the contract was regarded with favor by
the corporation, and the payment of interest was made without exception for several years. It is admitted that the 'contract provided prices for the work done far exceeding the cash
estimates of the engineer. This, the witnesses say, was the
natural consequence of the embarrassment of the company and
their want of credit. But they prove that the proposal of Vallette was understood and considerately examined; that it was
adopted by the board, with only one dissentient vote; that its
conditions were performed in good faith by the appellee, and
that the final settlement between the contracting parties was

SUPREME COURT.
WTi& Water VaUl Cand Company v. Vaet ed al.

amicable. There was on the part of the appellee no -fraud or
circumvention.
These facts oppose an insuperable bar to any relief from the
contract on the ground of lesion or oppression. (Harrison v.
Guest, 85 Law and Eq., 487.)
The remaining question for consideration is, whether it was
competent for this corporation to execute such securities as
these bonds in fulfilment of their covenants in a construction
contract, fairly made. and executed by the other party. The
first section of the act of incorporation endows the corporate
body with faculties for suits, contracts, and all other things
legitimate for such company to 'do; and "all the powers and
privileges in any wise'necessary and expedient to carry into
effect the proper business" of the association. The seventeenth
section establishes the president and directors as the governing
body, and that "their regular and efficier~t doings not inconsistent with this charter" "shall in all cases be deemed the
doings of the company, and forever held valid as such."
The 18th section invests them with "full power to negotiate
any loans that may be deemed expedient for carrying out all
the objects contemplated by this act; and for the payment of
such loans, agreeably to the terms agreed upon, said company
shall bind themselves by their bonds, which bonds," &c., &c.,
&c., "shall be a valid lien upon all the stock and effects of said
company in the order of their issue, and all the effects of the
company, both real and personal, shall be deemed and taken as
a pledge for the punctual payment of the interest on said bonds,
and the ultimate redemption of the principal, agreeably to contract.
It is well settled that a corporation, without special author'ity, may dispose of land, goods, and chattels, or of any interest in the same, as it deems expedient, and in the course of
their legitimate business may make a bond, mortgage, note, or
draft; and also may make compositions with creditors, or an
assignment for their benefit, with preferences, except when
restrained by law. (Partridge v. Badger, 25 Barb., 146; Barry
v. Merchants' Ex. Co., 1 Sand. Ch. R., 280; Burr v. Phcenix
S., 5 W. and
Glass Co , 14 Barb., 858; Dater v. Bank of the 'U.

DECEMBER TERM, 1858.

425

WhNe Water Valey Canal Company v. Vallete et d.

-

-

S., 223; Frazier v. Wilcox, 4 Rob., 517; U. S. Bank v. Huth,
4 B. M., 423; The State v. Bank of Md., 6 G. and J., 323;
Pierce v. Emery, 32 N. T., 486.)
But, in addition to the general powers of the corporation, in
this instance there is "full powber" (specially conferred) to negotiate any loan or loans that the company might deem expedient for carrying out'any or all of the objects of the act. We
should find great difficulty in deciding that the corporation was
restrained by the laws concerning interest and usury, in view-.
of the comprehensive language of the 18th section of the act.
Those laws rest, upon considerations of policy applicable, for
the most part, to individuals engaged in their ordinary business; and the Legislature might well conclude that a -numerous body, engaged in-a public enterprise, under the direction
of an intelligent board, mightbe trusted with a plenary control of their property or credit, to accomplish the aim of the
association.
If the rights of the appellees depended upon the act of incorporation alone, it would be difficult to resist them. But, in
January, 1845, the Legislature of Indiana passed an act, that
recites the corporation had entered into a contract with Val
lette to complete the canal, and was to be paid in their bonds,
drawing the -legal interest in New York, and doubts were entertained as to the legality of the issue of these bonds ; and
thereupon it was enacted, that all the bonds which might be
issued in accordance with the contract existing between the
company and Vallette were legalized. A large portion of the
work specified in the contract was performed after this enactment, and the dettlemett underwhich these bonds were issued
took place subsequently. This act implies that there was no
illegality in the fact that bonds were employed as a medium of
payment for supplies of materials for, or work and labor done
upon, the canal.
The objection that a contract is illegal, and that no judgment
can therefore be rendered upon it, is not allowed from any consideration of favor to those who allege it. The courts, from
public considerationE, refuse their aid to enforce obligations
which contravene-the laws (n policy of the State. 'When the

SUPREME. COURT.
Easton.v. Salisbury.

Legislature relieves a contract from the imputation of illegality, neither of the parties to the contract are in a condition to
insist on this objection. (Andrews v. Russell, 7 Black., 475;
8 Ind., 27.)
Upon a review of the wtole case, it is the opinion.of -the
court that the contract between these parties was made without fraud or surprise; that there is no illegality in the cause,
or consideration; that the priority of payment has not been
released or defeated; and that the relief sought is within the
competency of a court of equity to allow.
Decree affirmed.

ALTON R. EASTON, PLAINTIFF IN ERRtOR, v. THoMAs L. SALISBURY.
Between May, 1829, and July, 1832, there was an interval in the acts of C'ongress reserving lands from sale which were claimed under Spanish concessions
in Louisiana; and during this interval, an entry or patent for any of these
lands would have been valid.
But a patent issued in 1827, whilst the reservation was in force, was void, and
the patent did not become operative proprio vigore during the interval be.
tween 1829 and 1832.
The confirmation of the concession in 1836, therefore, gave a good title to the
claimant under the concession.
Moreover, the New Madrid warrant, not being located within one year from the
26th of April, 1822, was void.

THIS dase was brought up from the Supreme Court of Mis.

souri by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
It was a petition in the nature of an ejectment -brought by
Easton against Salisbury in the St. Louis Court of Common
Pleas, to recover the lots described in the opinion of the court.
The Court of Common Pleas gave judgment for the defendant,
and this judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court.
The plaintiff claimed -under a New Madrid patent issued in
1827, and the defendant under a Spanish concession which
was confirmed in 1836. The Supreme. Court of Missouri

