CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

States, but that the same was repealed by the act

v
La Nereyda.

of the 31st of January, 1812, to amend the said
act;' and that the act last mentioned is also repug-

mant to the constitution of the United States.
Theopinion given on the first question submitted to this Court by the said Circuit Court, renders
it unnecessary to notice the second question.
All which is ordered to be certified to, the said
Cirouit Court.

[Pasni.
LA NEREYDA.

CoNcLusMzESSa

o SEN'T34.]

The Syanisl Consul, Libellant.

quare, Whether a regular sentence of condemnation in a Court of
the captor, or his ally, the captured property having ben carried
inraprwsidia, will preclude the Courts of this-country, from restoring it to the original owners, where the capture was made in
violation of our laws, treaties, and neutral obligations
Whoever cfaims under such- a condemnation, must show, that heis
a boM0 Wp purohaser for a valuable consideration, unaffected
with any participation in ther violation of our], neutrality by the
captors.
Wvoe-er sets up a title under any condemnation, as priz, Is bound
tt produce the lilel, or othm equivalent proeed blg, under which
the coudemnationwas pronounced, as, we4 as the sentence of conde6mnation itself.
Where an order for farther proof Is made, and the party disobeys, or
neglects to comply. with its injunctions, Courts of, prize generally
cousidex.sucz disabedience, or neglect, as fatal to his claim.
Upon such an order, it is almost the invariable practice for the claimant (besides other testimony) to make proof by his own oath of his
proprietary -interest, and to explain the other circumrtsancos of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
transaction; and the absence of such proof and explanation always
82.
leads to considerable doubts.
Q yue, Whether a condemnation inthe Court of an ad4gof property La Ntreyda.
carried into his ports by a co-belligerent, is valid?

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.
This was an allegation filed by the Spanish consul against the brig Nereyda, a public vessel of
war belonging to the king of Spain, stating, that
'the vessel had been captured by the privateer Irresistible, John 0. Daniels, master, in violation of
the laws, treaties, and neutral obligations of the
United States The claim given in by Henry
Child, as agent in behalf of the claimant, Antonio
Julio Francesche, set up a title in him acquired
under a sale in pursuance of a sentence of condemnati P,,as prize to the captors, pronounced by
the Vice Admiralty Court at Juan Griego, in the
island of Margaritta, in Venezuela. The capture
was made under an alleged commission from Jose
Artegas, chief of the Oriental Republic of Rio de
la Plata, and the prize carried into Juan Griego,'as
to a port of an ally in the war, for adjudication.
The capturing vessel was built, owned, armed, and
equipped in the port of Baltimore, and having
provided herself with the commission, sailed from
that port on a cruize, and captured the Nereyda
at sea, in the year 1818. The sentence of condemnation was pronounced, and the alleged sale
took place, in March, 1819, and the name of the
captured vessel having been changed to that of
El Congreso de Vemzuela, hnd a commission
obtained for her as a: privateer from the.government of Venezuela, she set sail for Baltimore.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

under the command of Henry Childs, who was
original prize master, where she arrived, and
La Nereyda.Sthe
was libelled as before stated. It appeared
in
evidence, that the vessel had continued, from the
time of the capture, under the direction and control of Daniels and Childs, both of whom were
citizens of the United States, and domiciled at
Baltimore. No .bill of sale to Frances6he was
produced, and no other evidence of his purchase, except a certificate from the auctioneer. A
decree of restitution to the claimant was pronounced in the District Court, which was affirmed,
p"o forma, in the Circuit Court, and the cause
was brought by appeal to this Court.
1823.

ararch 13th,
18k!.

The cause was argued, at the last term, on the
original evidence, by Mr. Harper and Mr. D.

Hoffman, for the appellant, and by Mr. Winder,
for the respondent.
Mr. D. Hoffman, for the appellant, coptended,
(1) That the Court is competent to restore this
property to the appellant, by the general principles of the jus gentium, without any reference to
the proof, that the neutrality and laws of this
country have been violated by the captors, but on
the sole. ground, that this taking on the high seas
was not jure belli, but wholly without commission,
as Jose Artegas does not represent a State or
nation,or a power ht war with Spain. That the
principles established by cases recently decided
in this Court, do not impugn the doctrine contended for, as they oocurred in the case qf commissions

OF THE UNITED STATES.

granted by such of the South American provinces

1823.

as our government, in the opinion of the Court,
had recognised to be engaged in a civil war with La Neeyd

Spain. That our government, and this Court,
having, in no instance whatever, recognised Artegas as engaged in a war with Spain, he is as
incompetent to grant connissions of prize, as
any other individual in the Spanish provinces.
That this Court, therefore, as an Instance Court,
will decree restitution and damages, as in ordinary
cases of maritime tort.
2.- That the neutrality and laws of this country having been violated by the captors, this Court
will decree restitution on that ground, even if
the authority under which they acted were, in
other respects, fully competent.
3. If the Court has the power to restore this
property, either on the ground of the total inability
of Artegas to issue commissions of prize, or in
vindication of our violated laws and neutrality, it
will look behind the condennation of any Court
for the existence of these facts, and if they be
found to exist, will wholly disregard the condemnation, and consider it rather as an aggravation
than an extenuation of the wrong.
4. That this Court, in restoring this property,
on the ground of violated neutrality and laws,
will not disturb the decree of condemnation, or
in any degree impugn. the received doctrine of the
conclusiveness of admiralty decrees, as said condenonation was made without any reference to our
laws, or inquiry as to the ownership or equipment
of the privateer.

CASES IN- THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'demnation,

La Nereyda.

5. TI at there is no sufficient proof of the conwhich is relied on; that this Court

will require the exhibition at least of the libel, in
order to disclose the grounds of the prize proceed-"
ings.
1
6. That the Vice Admiralty of Juan Griego
must be regarded by this Court as wholly incompetent to pass on this prize, first, because there is
no evidence whatever of an alliance between
Venezuela and the Banda Oriental; and, if the
alliance were proved, then, secondly, because this
sentence was passed by the Court of an ally, and
not by a Court of the belligerent captor sitting in
the country of an ally.
. hat the evidence of the claimant's purchase
is not sufficient; and, if it were, his title would be
affected by those infirmities which attached to the
right of the captors.
8. That under the circumstances of this case,
the new commission granted to the Nereyda, by
the government of Venezuela, after its condemnation, and the alleged purchase of it by Francesche,
can afford it no protection in this Court; that the
doctrine of the immunity of sovereign rights, when
it has an extra-territorial operation, is altogether
inapplicable to the present case.
9. That as the evidence in this cause connects
the Court of Juan Griego, its proceedings, and
a These zoints having been argued by Mr. Hofman in the preceding cases of the Grand Para, (ante, yol. VII. p. 471.) the Santa
Maria, (ld. p. 490.) and the Arrogante Barcelones, (Id. p. 496.)
he referred the Court to his former arguments, which will be found

reported in those cases.

-O- THE UNI°IED STATMS.

the commission of the Nereyda, with the manifest 1823.
violators of our laws of neutrality, and the treaty
with Spain, and evinces the whole to be a conge- r erey&,
Ties of frauds practised on our laws by our own
citizens, aided and sustained by foregners, this
Court will maintain the integrity of those laws,
and pay no more regard, and, perhaps, less, to the
commission, than to the condemnation.
I And, first, as to the effect of the commission:
most of what has already been submitted to the
Court as to the inefficiency even of a genuine sale
of such a privateer to the government of any of
the South American provinces, and the inability
of a condemnation, even of a competent Court, to
deprive this tribunal of its restoring power, will
apply wi.th equal, and perhaps greater force, to
the immunity claimed for this prize from the commission with which she is now clothed.
If this immunity be allowed, it uaust be oh the
grounl, that the sovereignty of Venqzuela would
be improperly subjected to judicature, and that
this commission imparts to the vessel the same
privilege from arrest, or detention, which is due in
certain cases to a sovereign, or his ambassadors.
This is founded wholly on an assumption, first, of
the fact, that sovereignty is by this proceeding
brought into judicature; and, secondly, of a principle, that sovereignty cannot, in any case, be thus
dealt with; both of which, it is presumed, are untenable. We contend, that the restoration of this
prize, notwithstanding the commission, would, in
no degree, affect the rights or dignity of the government of Venezuela; and that if our laws have
VOL. VIII.

is

CASES IN THE SUPREMAE COUR'L

1823.

been violated, the power of restitution cannot be
rights of sovereignty were
government of Venezuela,
even if regarded, in all respects, as that of a free
and independent State, has .no sovereign rights in
this country, when they come in collision with our
own ; that all sovereignty is, in its nature, as a
general rule, local, and that its extra-territorial
operation is to be found only in a few cases of exception to that rule.
This eommission, like the condemnation, is a
sovereign act, good for some purposes, and wholly
inoperatiVe as to others. The commission would
justify the capture of Spanish property; that
power this Court cannot call in question; but the
commission is not good to disarm this Court of a
power which it would otherwise possess, viz. of
restoring this vessel, because gained by the unlawful use of American means. The taking of this
vessel, .by our citizens, per se, rendered her justiciable in this Court; she is liable to the jurisdiction of American admiralty tribunals, at any remote period, and into whatsoever hands she may
haye eome, whether by condemnation, bonafide
sale, or otherwise ; and though, in the exercise of
this power, such condemnation, sale, or commission, may be rendered (in a degree) inoperative,
this is only an incidental or collateral effect; the
Court would not directly impugn either; it merely
restores the possession to those from whom, quoad
this country, it had been illegally wrested. And
if subsequently the condemnation, sale, or com-.
mission, could benefit those climing under them4

Simpaired, even if the
La Nereyda. implicated ; that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

115

or either of them, this Court would have no power 1823.
to disturb such possession or title.
Nereyda.
The commission which has been given to this La
prize, is not sustained -by any principles similar,
or equivalent to those on which the force of condemnations ordinarily rests. It can seek no aid
from the doctrine of comity ; it can claim no exemption from the binding operation of an actual,
or supposed notice of a proceedingI in which all
the world is a party; it can demand no privilege
from the doctrine of the absolute- coequality of all
nations. On what principle, then, can the commission shield the vessel from the power of this
Court ? These cruizers bear tie flag, and are
clothed with the commissions of the country of
their adoption; and yet we know, that this Court,
in vindication of the laws of the land, would condemn them, on ilaformations filed under the neutrality acts; and this, Coo, even were they public, or national vessels of war." Sovereignty, no
doubt, would be as much implicated in the one
case, as in the other. It may, however, be said,
that the Nereyda never violated the laws of this
country, but that it is the capturing vessel which is
in delicto; true; but the very ground on which
the res subjecta is now claimed, is, that it never
vested in the captors, as far as concerns this country. The innocence of the rcs capta, and the
illegal means used for its acquisition, are the very
grounds of our libel, and the foundation on which
the power of this Court reposes. If the capturing
a 1 W11rlat. Rep. 2:53.

CASES IN THE SUPREME cUUuT

U6

1823. 'vessel has broken our laws, and the fruit of"its

act be within the reach of this Court, no
power is competent to arrest its arm. If a commission or condemnation of the prize could effect
this, legislation would be worse than vain; iJ'would
be clothing foreign powers with the right of dispensing with our most solemn, important, and
penal laws ; and, in the present case, it would be
yielding to ah unknown, undefined, self-created
power, not only the rights of nations in their fullest extent, but the privilege of seducing our own
citizens to the violation of our laws ; and this, too,
with perfect impunity, as the personal sanctions of
the laws are'not only extremely difficult to be efiforced, but there is no occasion- for the oflbnders
to come within the reach of our Courts.
The cases of the Exchange,a and the Casgius, b will probably be relied on, as establishing the
doctrine that the commission conferred on this
vessel by the government of Venezuela, as the
sovereign act of a State or nation, so effectually
screens the vessel from judicial cognizance, that
this Court dare not examine into the cause, but
must leave the vessel in the undisturbed possession of those holding the commission. If we
analyze this celebrated case of the Exchange,
and collate its facts and principles with that now
under adjudication, we shall find them io stand olt
grounds essentially different:
1.The seizure of the Exchange was made by the
Rovereign power of France, from an American

Sillegal

La Nereyda.

a. 7 rmtebi 116 .

h 3 Dall. 12S

OF THE UNITED "STATES.

citizen who had violated his neutrality, and had 182.
thereby become q"asi an enemy of that country.
La Nereyda.
2. The seizure was in the exercise of what w
claimed, by France a" a belligerent right. 3. The
Exchange, when shexeturned into our waters, was
actually and bonafide a public vessel of war, held
by the Emperor NapoJeon, jure corotu, and bore
the flag and commission of a national ship of war.
4. The Exchange was in the possession of a sovereign who claimed a title in her, and who had done
no act by which he dould be subjected lo judicature. 5. The case of the Exchange rested on
the personal character and immunity of sovereigns,
and an immunity was claimed for this vessel only
as extensive as that which is allowed in the three
cases, of the sovereign himself, his ambassadors,
and his armies in transitu. 6. The Exchange
entered the port.'of Philadelphia in distress, and
sought an. asylum bona fide; During this time
She demeaned herself with strict propriety, and
no act was done manifesting a consent to submit
to judicature, nor by our government to exact it.
7. The libel against the Exchange involved the
question of sovereign title as well as possession.
It was a petitory suit, of which this Court could
'have no jurisdiction whatever. 8. There was a.
suggestion by the law officer of the goiernment,
on behalf of the French -sovereign, and .the case
was wholly coram non judice, even if the Bzchange had not been a national vessel of war.
9. The Exchange was not seized on the high seas;
it was a seizure within a port of the French empire, by order of the sovereign, under his Rambino-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

illct decree. There was, therefore, no case within

1823.
La Nereyda.

'the

admiralty. The taking was neither a capture,
nor a maritime tort; the Court was, consequently,

compelled to leave the possession undisturbed.
10. Its being, at the time of the seizure, American
property, could in no way invest this Court with
the power of restitution, even had it been a maritime seizure jure belli. 'The legality of all captures is to be judged by the Courts of the captor,
unless in the two excepted cases of a violation of
our territorial limits in effecting the capture, and
equipment, ownership, or augmentation of the
force of the vessel in this country. The Ex.
change was embraced by neither exception.
Setting aside the question of the sovereign's
title, the case of the Exchange presented nothing
more than the ordinary case of an American vessel, which, after being seized jure belli, for a violation of her neutrality, returned to this country;
the legality of which seizure, it must be admitted,
belonged exclusively to the Courts of France.
The violation of her neutrality-rendered her quoad
hoc a belligerent. Nay, the very suggestion filed
by the attorney general, was avowedly for the
purpose of maintaining our neutrality inviolate;
and although the decree'to which she had rendered
.herself obnoxious, might have been a most arbitrary, and even wanton departure from the law of
nations. This was not a matter for our Courts,
but for our government to judge of, and to remedy;
for had the government declared the Rambouillet
decree contrary to the law of nations, still, this

OF THE iJNITED STATES.

Court could not have restored the Exchange.0 1826.
This principle alone would have justified the La
to its '-"'Nert.,da.
Exchange
the
restore
to
refusing
in
Cqurt
formey owner. The case of the Exchange was
made to rest on two distinct points, either of which
was sufficient to decide the cause. First,whether
the Court cbuld restore American property, which
might have been unjustly or illegally seized by a
foreign government. This was, in truth, the only
essential point. The cases of the Betsey,' Del
Cot v. Arnoldc and some others, seemed to sanction the right of restoring, simply on the ground
of its being American property. A second question was, therefore, made, which, though but auxiliary, asstufied,-in the course of the argument, the
chief importance. It was contended, that as the
Exchange was now the property of a sovereign,
which had been admitted into our country by implied consent, and which, during her stay, had
done no act to terminate that permission, this
Court must regard the vessel as entitled to the
same immunty as would be due to ambassadors,
or foreign troops passing by consent through our
country. Much learning and eloquence were, no
doubt, displayed in the argument of this point;
but, it is conceived, that -had the doctrine, since so
clearly laid down in the case of the Invincibled
been at that time as well defined and understood
a Williams v. Amroyd, 7( Cranc1h, 423.

b 2 Peters's.in.

Dec. 330.

c 3 DaZ.-S33.
d 2 GnMli. Rep. 36.

I Wheat. Rep. 238.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\have

as it is at present, the case of the Exchange would
been decided without reference to the ques-

La Nereda. tion of sovereign immunity.

The following points of comparison occur between the Exchange and the case now under adjudication :
1. The Nereyda was not seized by any sovereign
power, but by Daniels, a private individual, a eitizen of the United States, acting under an authority
wholly unknown to this Court, because in no way
recognised by this government. 2. The Nereyda
never was, and is not at this time, a public vessel of
-war of the government of Venezuela ; but a privateer, the private property of Daniels, and in his, or,
perhaps, Francesche's possession. "The commission under which she now appears, impokO nothing
more than an authority in Childs, her commander, to capture Spanish property; but it does not
render her national or public property. The
commission in the case of the Exchange, on the
contrary, was also an evidence or muniment of the
sovereign's title. The restitution. of the Nereyda
would deprive an individual of his possession;
but the restitution of. the Exchange could not
have been effected without judging of the validity
of the original seizure; annulling, the coinmissmn,
and pronouncing a sovereign's title wholly void.
3. The Nereyda is expressly claimed on behalf of
a private individual. Neither Francesche nor
Childs makes any mention of any possession or
property being in the government of Venezuehl.
This proceeding, then, does not call on, sovereignty
to submit to judicature ;"and the commission can-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

not require of us to consider that as national pro- 1823.
perty, which the whole history of the case proves
Ne- La Neeyd a
to be a mere private possession. 4. The
reyda entered our waters voluntarily, and for the
express purpose of obtaining an unlawful equipment, and the very persons who brought her here,
had -violated our laws, and subjected themselves,
and the property in their possession, to the jutisdiction of our Courts. No asylum, therefore, was
granted to the Nereyda, and het officers and crew.
The United States cannot be supposed to have
admitted the Nereyda, exempt from all inquiry asr
to her real character, and as to the conduct of
those in whose possession she was found. But
the Exchange not only arrived here in distress,
and demeaned herself with strict propriety, but
those who had her in possession had never violated our laws, nor was she ever capable of restitution by this Court; she entered our ports under
an acknowledged and certain immunity. No cession, then, of territorial jurisdiction can be inferred from the entry of the Nereyda into our waters ;
and her commission, even if it made her a national
vessel, would not, under the circumstances of the
case, protect her, allowing the doctrine of sovereign immunity its greatest latitude. Sovereignty
is essentially local in its operation; the moral
equality of all nations establishes this as an aphorism. in public law. Beyond a nation's dominions,
sovereignty has, ordinarily, nio operation; its extraterritorial power is but an exceptiont to a well
known rale; and if we for a moment attend to the
principle which supports the exception. we shall
VoL. VIM

16

CASES-IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

find it, in all cases, to rest on the consent, express

N.r-d-.
La Nereyda,

or implied, of that nation within whose territory
the immunity is claimed. The three
exceptions

so forcibly illustrated in the judgment of the
Court in the case of the Exchange, show the local
nature of sovereignty, and strongly evince the
special grounds on which the deviation from the
general rule is justified. But even in the excepted
cases, if there be not the utmost good faith, if
there be any circumstances to negative the implication of consent, or any facts unknown at the
time of an express compact, which would have
prevented such compact, had they been disclosed,
the immunity would at once cease.

The claim of immunity tbr the Exchange, was
exacted only to the extent of, and made to rest
on those principles which protect from detentiou
or arrest, 1st. a sovereign entering the territory
of another; 2dly. ambassadors ; and, dly. the
troops of a foreign prince, to whom a right of passage had been allowed. Now, if a sovereign
should enter the dominions ofanother,without such
implied or express consent; or if, after he has entered with consent, fie should commit an act malum
tu se, or against the jus gentium ; or if it be discovered that an ambassador had, prior to his appointment, committed some capital offence against
the country to which he is sent; or if the troops,
in their passage, should violate the rights of persons, or of property-it is presumed neither of'
them would be shielded from the penal law of the
country.' If this be correct, the commission granted
a 4 Int.

152.

3 Bulst. 2B.

Molloy, B. 1. ch. 10. s. 12.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to the Nereyda cannot, on principle, screen her
from the restoring power of this Court. The yesprivate, may
sels of all nations, public as well as
seek an asylum in our ports. During this, we
have, ordinarily, no jurisdiction over them. The
consent, however, under which they enter, is
always subject to the qualification that they have
not previously violated, our laws or hospitality,
and that they are in no other respect amenable
to judicature. If the Nereyda had not been
taken by Unittd States' arms, this Court could not
have interfered ir, jehalf of the Spanish sovereign,
from whom his rebellious subjects had taken her.
The commission, then, it .is presumed, can no
more protect her from the power of this Court,
than the solemn and public documents by which
an ambassador is made the representative of his
sovereign, could shield him from the criminal law
of the country in which he resides, and whose
laws he had previously violated 'unknown to that
country.
The libel in this case does not involve the question of title. As relates to Venezuela, even the
right of possession of this prize is not implicated.
If this were a petitory suit, this Court would disclaim any interference.0 But the question simply
is, whether those who have gained a possession,
or their representatives, by means illegal in reference to our laws, shall be permitted to retain that
possession against its original possessors, in the
very country whose laws have been violated.
a 2 Bro. Civ. Adm.Law, 11O. 113. 114.115.117. 7 Cranch,
120. 121.

1823.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18'23.
The Nereyda being at one time subject to the
_*'v-'- jurisdiction of this Court, (had she come into our
La r~ereyda. possession,) the Court will not permit that to be
done indirectly, which could not be done directly.
This contingent jurisdiction can no more be annihilated or impaired by the act of a nation or State,
than by an individual. As to this country, the taking
was an absolute .nullity. There was a deep seated
infirmity in the original capture, which could not
be cured by the condemnation, nor by Francesche's
purchase, even if it had been genuine. For if the
condemnation be not sufficient, no act done in execution of that judicial sentence, could be thus
operative: debile fundamenturn fallit opus; and
Francesche could succeed only to the title of
Daniels, whatever that was. Nor could the commission rehabilitate or perfect the title. It does
not pretend to assert a title in any one, nor does
it design to confer a title on Francesche, or to intimate any claim- of property in the government
granting it. This sovereign act, then, imports
nothing further than an authority to that vessel to
capture Spanish property.
In the case of the Exchange, the prominent
djfficulty was, that its possessor being a sovereign,
could not be brought into Court. But, in the pr.sent case, those claiming under the commission,
have not only voluntarily appeared and claimed
the- Nereyda, but they have expressly submitted
the case to the jurisdiction of this Court. The
claimant asked for, and received the Nereyda on
stipulation ; tfiis cancels, or waives every objection

OF THE UNITED STATES.

12.5

to jurisdiction, if any existed.a Not that it is 1823.
meant to assert, in general, that consent can conhas La NerydL
fer jurisdiction; but that wherever a Court
jurisdiction of the subject matter, but not of the
person, consent would remove the objection. If,
on the other hand, the Court has no jurisdiction
over the subject matter, but of the persons only, it
would not be competent to act from the consent of
the parties. In the case now before the Court,
there is no one act of the claimant, or of others,
indicating any interest in this proceeding on the
part of the government of Venezuela; but the
case is impressed throughout with the character of
a mere private and individual claim.
In the case of tile Cassius, a prohibition was
allowed on the ground, 1st. That the prize itself
had been carried i.?fraprwsidia; 2dly. That the
question of damages should follow the main question, which belonged exclusively to the Court of
the captor; 3dly. That as the Cassius was, and
ever had been, the property of a"overeign nation,
and not a mere privateer, our Courts had no
power to make her respond in damages; 4thly.
That there was no proof that the commander of
the Cassius was an American citizen; 5thly. That
the treaty with France gave the exclusive cognizance, in all cases of prizes made by their vessels
of war, to the Courts of France.
Is there any point in this case which militates
against the restitution of the Nereyda ? In the
a The Abby, I Afa.on's Rep. 364.
398.

2 Rrn. Cir.& ..Idnt. Low.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

case of the Cassius, the Court very properly deSided, that the privateer should not respond in
LaNereyda. damages for the captured property; as this had
1823.

been taken infra pr-esidia capientium, and the
Court of the captors having the exclusive right to
judge of the legality of the capture, the question
of damages should follow the main question. It
also assumed the doctrine, which has been subsequently fully established in the case of the Invincible,a viz. that the power of this Court to- take
the res capta from the possession of a belligerent, and restore it to its former owner, could only
be brought into action where the neutrality or
territorial jurisdiction of this country had been violated by the captor. The case of the Cassius is,
in all its points, good law ; it is nothing more than
the ordinary .case of calling on this Court to decree
4amages for an illegal capture of American property; no one will pretend to say, that this can
be done, unless the Court acquires a jurisdiction
by reason of the existence of either of those facts
which take the case out of the control of the general rule, which gives to the Courts of the captors
the sole right of judging of the validity of all captures. American ownership in the thing captured
is not sufficient per se, and in the case of the Cassius no other fact appeared in proof. Further;
if we advert to the fact, that the Cassius was subsequently prosecuted on an information for an illegal outfit, which, on that proceeding, was proved,
a I Wheat. Rep. 238.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

127

and she condemned, maugre her commission,a the 1825.
on the civil proceeding, can- La Nereydacase of the Cassius,
•
not be regarded as any authority to establish the
doctrine of sovereign immunity, when the rights
of two sovereigns come in collision.
Mr. Winder, contra, contended, . That there
was no competent claimant before-the Court. The
vessel libelled originally belonged, as was asserted,
to the king of Spain, and was libelled by 'the
Spanish consul, who cannot be considered by this
Court as authorized in his general character to
appear for his government, when its sovereign
rights are drawn in question in our tribunals. He
must show some special authority for this purpose.'
2. The capture was made jure belli, under a
regular commission from Artegas, the chief of one
of the South American provinces, engaged in the
present war between Spain and her colonies. The
existence of this civil war is notorious. It has
been recognised by various acts of our government ; and the consequent right of all the parties
engaged in it, to carry 6n hostilities against each
other, has been repeatedly admitted by this Court,
and is laid down by all the text writers on the law
of nations. The Oriental Republic, or Banda
Oriental, is that portion of the ancient vice-royalty
of La Plata, lying between the river Uruguay and
Brazil; which, for a long period, and at the time
a 1 What. Rep. 253.

b The Anne, 3 Wheat. Rep. 435.

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
e

the present capture was made, carried on hostilities both against its parent country, Spain, and
against Portugal, independent of the government
established at Buenos Ayres. This fact is stated
in the President's message of the 17th of November, 1818, and in the reports of our commissioners, transmitted with it ;a and is sufficient to authorize the Court to allow to Artegas all the.rights
of war, according to the principles already settled
as applicable to this subject. It is impossible to
make any intelligible distinction, in this respect,
between the different governments which have
successively sprung up in different- parts of South
America. The rights of war must be allowed to
all, or to none. Their existence as governments
de facto, is matter of history and public notoriety;
and the United States have since acknowledged
the independence of all of them as they now
exist, without pretending accurately to adjust their
conflicting claims of territorial jurisdiction among
each other.
3. The capture having been made under a lawful commission, was carried into a port of Venezuela, an ally or co-belligerent with the 'Banda
Oriental in the war with Spain, and there condemned as prize to the captors, in the regular
Court of the ally. The present claimant, asserts
his claim as a purchaser under that sentence of
condemnation. The fact of the connexion between the different Spanish provinces in the war
with the parent country, is mentioned by the Presia 4 Wheat. Rcp. App'x. Note I. p. 23.

OF THE UITED STATES.

dent in his different communications to Congress, 1823.
and he has the exclusive authority of determining '
La Nereyda.
the relations of foreign States. There is no doubt,
that a valid condemnation may be pronounced in
the Court of the captor's country, where the pize
is lying in the port of an ally in the war. And if
his ports may be used for this, and all other hostile purposes, it is not perceived why the aid of his
Courts may not be imparted for the purpose of
consummating that title which is acquired by capture, and bringing infra presidia. Indeed, it
seems to be settled by the authority of text writers on the law of nations, and by express adjudications, that this may be done.a -It must be mere
matter of arrangement and mutual convenience
between the co-belligerents themselves, and no
neutral, or other nation, can have any rigtit to
complain. The validity of the capture is inquired
into by a-Court of prize, having an inherent capacity tomake the investigation, and to do justice to
the claimants as well as the captors. Such was
our own practice during the war of the revolution,
-when Congress authorized our prize Courts to
condemn prizes taken by French cruisers, and
brought into the ports of the United States.' But
even supposing the Court of Venezuela not to be
competent to adjudicate on the capture by its ally,
yet the. thing taken being once in its possession,
and being the property of Spain, its enemy, it
a 2 Brown's Adm. i Civ. Law, 257-281.

2 Base's Pap.479.
b 5-WUa. Rep. .dpp.x. 123.

V6L.VVM

17

Oddy v. Bovill,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

might proceed to condemn it as such, and the
' condemnation must give a valid title against all
Nereyda. tihe world.

1823.
La

4. The captured vessel having been thus condemned as prize, was sold, and fitted out as a privateer under a commission from the government of
Venezuela. It is insisted, that this condemnation,
and the commission thus obtained, are alone sufficient to prevent the Court from inquiring into her
former history. The vessel comes into our ports
under the general license which both South American and Spanish cruisers enjoy of frequenting
them; and so long as she does not abuse that hospitality, by augmenting her force contrary to our
laws, has a right to remain, and depart at pleasure.
This was the principle established in the case of
the Exchange. It was not upon the ground,
that the vessel had become the property of the
French emperor by a regular condemnation as
prize, but that she bore his flag and commission,
and coming into our ports under a general permission, was not amenable to the jurisdiction of our
Courts, any more than that sovereign himself, or
his ambassador, would have been. Whether the
ship be a public, or a private armed vessel, can
make no difference. It is sufficient that she bears
the commission of the State, and is engaged in
the service of the State. To exert any jurisdiction over her, is to exert a jurisdiction over the
sovereign rights of that State, of whose military
force she constitutes a part, and, from the nature
of the present war, an important part. You may,
indeed, by a prospective regulation, revoke the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

permission which you have granted to the cruisers 1823.
of the South American States, provided your act ''v
of La Nereyda.
of revocation be impartial, and extend to those
Spamn also. But you cannot violate in a particular case the permission you have already granted,
and draw to your judicial cognizance the sovereign
rights of a State, which is coequal, in the view of
the law of nations, with the oldest and proudest
sovereignty in the world.
The learned counsel, also, referred to his arguments- in other- analogous cases before the Court
at the same term, which will be found reported in
those cases.a
Mr. Harper,for the appellant, in reply, notice
1. The preliminary objection which had been
urged on the part of the respondent, that the
Spanish consul had no competent authority to
-institute the present proceeding.
This objection admitted of. several answers.
In the first place, it was to be recollected, that it
was not the sovereignty, or the sovereign rights of
the Spanish government, that were here in question.
It wasa mere right of property, held and claimed
by the king, in trust, indeed, for the nation, but
still a right of property. Some doubts had been
raised, how well founded it was not then necessary to inquire, whether a sovereign could be
brought into judicature to defend any of his rights:
but surely it had never been doubted, that he
a The Santissima'Trinidada; (ante, V-ol. VII. p. 290.) The Grand
Para, (i&p. 484.) The Arrogante Barcelones. (id.p. 498. 516.'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
*eed

might go there if he thought fit, to assert his rights
of property. This was the daily practice of our
own, and every other government, that respected
the laws, and did not act in all cases by its arbitrary will. If the king of Spain could appear voluntarily in a Court of justice, to assert his rights of
property, surely he might appear by his agent, his
proctor, or his attorney. The consul is the general agent for asserting in Courts of justice the
rights of his countrymen, and of his government,
as far as they related to property. -Here the consul
claims; not, however, in his own name, or for himself, but in the name, and for the rights of his
government. As to the case of the Anne, which
has been cited on the other side,a the claim was
not founded on a right of property, but of violated
sovereignty. During the war between the United
States and Great Britain, an American privateer
had taken a British vessel on the coast of Hispaniola, and, as was alleged, within the Spanish jurisdiction. Spain was neutral ; and there being no
acknowledged Spenish minister, the Spanish consul interposed a claim, to protect the neutral rights
of his government, and complain of their violation'. He had no extraordinary powers; and the
Court decided, that for this purpose his ordinary
powers were not competent. But surely it does
not follow from this decision, that if the vessel
taken had been a public ship of Spain, he might
not have interposed a claim for the property; for
he is peculiarly intrusted with the rights of proa 3 Wiheat. Rep. 435.

OF THE UNITED STATES:

perty, while those of sovereignty are confided to 1823.
the ambassador or public minister.
Neeyda.
But, in the second place, if the public minister La
of Spain alone can act, in a matter of this kind,
he has acted here. An express written authority
has been produced, from him to the consul, to
claim in this very c.ase for the king of Spain.
Surely if the king of Spain may come into Court
to prosecute his rights, he may come by his attorney, his proctor, or his solicitor, as the case may
require. The Canton of Berne once filed a bill
in the English High Court of Chancery ;a and
surely the Canton of Berne must have appeared
by a solicitor. And how was this solicitor appointed ? Unquestionably as the proctor was in
the present case, by the accredited minister of the
sovereign.
2. He then proceeded to consider the principal
questions in the cause, the first of which related
to the validity of the commission under which the
capture complained of was made, which he contended was invalid, and did not authorize the capture. The commission relied on is from Jose
Artegas, styling himself " chief of the Oriental
Republic," and "protector of the Orientals;"
and the question is, whether any such republic,
community, or government, is known to this
Court. This depends upon their recognition by
the government of this country, through the President, its constitutional organ for such purposes.
This recognition certainly need not include Artea 9 Va. 347.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
La Nereyda.

gas by name, as the chief of the supposed repubgovernment, or community; because, when

Slic,

once their existence is properly
made known to

this Court, the persons who from time to time act
as their chief officers, must be taken to be so. But
the government itpelf must have been acknowledged by the proper authority, before its existence
can be noticed, or its acts treated as valid, by this
Court. The question, then, is, has any such
government as that of " the Oriental Republic,"
or " the Orientals," been recognised by the
government of the United States ? For the decision of this question we must refer to the various
acts of recognition which have been done by the
President.
The only message of the President to Congress, which contains a distinct recognition of the
different South American governments, is that of
the 17th of November,. 1818.a It states, " that
the government of Buenos Ayres declared itself
independent in July, 1816, having previously exercised the powers of an independent government,
though in the name of the king of Spain, from
the year 1810. That the Banda Oriental,EntreRios, and Paraguay, with the city of Santa Fee,
all of which are also independent, are unconnected with the present government of Buenos
Ayres; that Chili has declared itself independent,
and is closely connected with Buenos Ayres;
that Venezuela has also declared itself independent, and now maintains the conflict with various
a A Wheaf. Rep. 4pp'x. 1ote IT. p. 24.

135

OF THE UNITED STATES.

success; and that the remaining parts of South
America, except Monte Video, and such other por-

1823.
-'*

as are La Nereyda.
tions of the eastern bank of the La Plata,
held by Portugal, are still in the possession of
Spain, or in a certain degree under her influence."
Here we find various countries distinctly enumerated, of some of which the governments are
noticed, but no mention whatever of the " Orientals," or the " Oriental Republic." A country
called the " Banda Oriental," indeed, is mentioned, and we may conjecture, but are no where informed, that it constitutes the whole, or a part of
this supposed republic. It is mentioned in connexion with two other countries, called " EntreRios," and " Paraguay." Do they, also, form
parts of " the Orientals," of whom Jose Artegas
is the protector; or of the " Oriental Republic,"
of which he claims to be the chief? We are no
where informed by the President; and although
it might be plausibly conjectured, yet we know the
fact to be otherwise. Paraguay, we know, historically, to be altogether separate from the Banda
Oriental, and to have a chief of its own, one Francia, who is said to style himself " consul," and
to conduct his government according to the forms
of the Roman Commonwealth. Venezuela is
spoken of in the message as a distinct community,
and we know it by that name. Chili is mentioned
in the same manner, as- a distinct community of
that name, and, consequently, capable of having
a government. Three other countries, or communities, are named in connexion ; but we are not

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

informed whether they constitute the territory of
one government, of two, or of three ; and no menLa Nereyda. tion whatever is made
of any such government,
community, or people, as the " Orientals," or the
"Oriental Republic."
We are, then, left wholly in the dark by the
President on this point; and we cannot look beyond his messages for information, which he -alone
is authorized to give. We cannot look to the reports of the commissioners for the recognition of
this. government. This recognition"appertains to
the Presidefit alone, as the constitutional organ qf
the nation for all such purposes. He has, indeed,
thought fit to lay before Congress the reports of
the commissioners, as his justification for the step
which he took, in recognising some of these
governments, and for declining to recognise
others. But he cannot have intended by this act,
to transfer the decision of this great question of
national policy to this Court, or to any other department of the government; and if he had intended to do so, it was not in his power. And
if we look to the reports of the commissioners,
we shall find abundant matter to justify the President in forbearing to recognise this pretended
government. These reasons exist in its unsettled,
irregular, and ephemeral character. We were
fully informed, by these reports, of the existence
and pretensions of Artegas, of the nature of his
government, and the countries over which it claimed to extend. One of the reports, that of Mr.
Rodney, speaking of the people of the Banda
Oriental, and Entre-Rios, says, that they " have
e

OF THE UNITED StATES.

137

been compelled to give up every thing like civil 1823.
avocations, and to continue without any reulzr1-0"v
kind of government, under the absolute control LalerydL
of a chief, who, whatever may be his political
principles or professions, in practice concentrates
all power, legislative, executive, and judga in
himself."
-3. But, admitting the commission to be valid,
there was no valid condemnation of the property
captured under its authority.
The paper produced as a condemnation, purpofts to be the sentence of a Prize Court of Venezuela, sitting at Juan Griego, or Gregorio, in the
island of Margaritta, within the territory of that
republic. It is objected to this condemnation,
first, that it is not proved; and, secondly, that it
was pronounced by a Court which had no jurisdiction.
The objection to the proof rests on two grounds.
In the first place, the sentence is not certified
under the seal of any Court, or by aay person who
appears, or is stated or proved to be, the officer of
any Court. The person who certifies this sentence, is stated, and proved to be, " the notary of
the Marine at Juan Griego, in Margaritta ;" but we
are no where informed, that he is charged with,
or executes the functions of clerk or register of
the Admiralty Court, whose sentence this purports to be, or that he is in any manner employed by it, or authorized to authenticate its
proceedings.
In the next place, this sentence, admitting it to
be properly authenticated, appears alone. It is
VOL. VIII.

is

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

unaccompanied by any part of the proceedings
in the cause in which it purports to have been proLa Nereyda. nounced. Before the sentence, decree,
or judg'

ment of any Court whatever, can be given in evidence, it must be shown, that it was pronounced
in a cause depending before that Court, and within
its jurisdiction. This is a universal rule, and
applies, for the plainest reasons, to the decisions
of Prize Courts, and of all other Courts of justice.
Without the production of. the proceedings, it
will always be impossible to ascertain whether the
Court bad jurisdiction of the case ; 4 point always,
and in all cases, examinable, andwhich must always
be established, before the sentence, judgment, or
decree, can be given in evidence. For this reason, the libel and claim, in admiralty and prize
cases, must be prodirced, in order to let in the
sentence. SNot being produced here, the sentence,
however kell authenticated, must be disregarded.
But if received, it can produce no effect; because, it appears, on its -face, to be the sentence of
a Court which had no jurisdiction in the dase
which it undertook to adjudicate. The commission under which the vessel and
cargo in question were captured, as prize of war,
was, granted by Artegas, as chief of the Orientals,
and protector of the Oriental Republic ; a government which, if it have any such existence as can
be noticed here, is entirely distinct from that of
Venezuela, in the Prize Court of which, sitting at
Juan Griego, in the island of Margaritta, the condemfiation took place. But, it is said, that Venezuela was the ally of Artegas in the war ; and that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

18g

the Prize Court of an ally may condemn. We 1823.
deny both these positions.
How does it appear, that Venezuela was the La NeroYo.
ally of Artegas ? The fact is not stated by the
President in any of his public communications to
Congress. Nor do the commissioners to South
America, whose reports he communicated to the
legislature, say any thing of such an alliance, or
any thing from which it must, or even could be inferred. The President, indeed, states to Congress, as the commissioners had done to him, that
both Artegas and Venezuela were at war with
Spain. But, does it follow, that they were in alliance with each other? We have lately learned,
that war has broken out between the Turks and
the Persians. It may very soon break out between
Russia and the Turks. Will the Rissians and
Persians, in that case, be pso facto allies in the
war against Turkey ? Alliance means a connected
union of efforts and means; and not merely an
accidental coincidence of objects. It follows,
that the President, by declaring to Congress
that Artegas and Venezuela were both engaged
in war with Spain, did not declare that Artegas and Venezuela were allies. But, admitting that he had declared it, still his declaration
would not be competent evidence of such a fact.
When the question relates to the existence of a
government, it is proper to refer it to the decision
of the chief magistrate, who is intrusted by the
constitution with the care and management of our
relations with other countries and governments;
he must, of necessity, therefore, be constituted the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

judge, and the sole judge, of the fact of their exupon which the exercise of these imporEia Nereyda. tant functions must depend. As these relations,
Sistence,

moreover, must often depend on the state of peace
or war in which foreign governments may be, as it
respects each other, it may be proper that the
President should be constituted, for many purposes, the judge, and even the sole judge, of the
existence of a state of war between certain nations;
because, out of such a state may grow very important relations between us and them. But what
relations can arise out of the fact of their being
allies in the war, or each carrying it on separately,
by his separate counsels and means ? None
whatever. It is a mere matter of fact, which,
like any.,other matter, may affect the rights or interests of individuals, but cannot, in any way, become a public concern. Those, consequently,
who may wish to set it up, in the course of a
judicial proceeding, as the foundation of any right
or claim, must prove it, as every other fact is
proved. As well might it be attempted to prove,
by an executive communication, the fact of capture, or of spoliation of papers, or any other fact
on which either party in a prize proceeding might
rely, as this fact of an alliance between Artegas
and Venezuela, in the war against Spain.
Admitting It, however, to be proved, it immediately brings up the second question, whether the
Prize Courts of one ally are competent to take
cognizance of captures made under commissions
from the other. We insist that they are not, ac-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cording to the best established principles of prize 1823.
law.
-L a N y&
the
In this opinion, the most eminent advocates,

soundest elementary writers, and the highest judicial tribunals, with one voice, unite. They all lay
it down as an elementary principle, universal in
its application, and subject to no exception, that
the question of " prize, or no prize, belongs exclusively to the Courts of the captors' country."
In the case of the Invinwible,a that most eminent
and distinguished advocate, now unhappily no
more, who so long adorned and enlightened this
Court, and whose opinions had almost acquired
the authority of judicial decisions, treats this rule
as an axiom, about which there could be no dispute.
Mr. PINKNEY there says, that " if there be any
rule of public law better established than another,
it is, that the question of prize is solely to be determined in the Courts of the captors' country. The
report on the memorial of the king of Prussia's
minister, refers to it as the customary law of the
whole civilized world. The English Courts of
prize have recorded it; the French Courts have
recorded it; this Court. has recorded it. It pervades all the adjudications on the law of prize,
and it lays as an elementary principle at the very
foundation of that law."
The judgment of this Court, in the same case,
fully supports the doctrine. It speaks of a sentence as prize under a commission from a power
a i Wheat. Rep. 246.

CASES 2N THE SUPRE1UE COURT

1823S.

at war, as the

"

act of the sovereign ;" as entitled
" except in the Courts

Nereyd. to exemption from scrutiny,

of that sovereign ;" and as not subjecting the captors to any question whatever in any other Court,
till those of. his sovereign shall have decided, that
the seizure was not authorized by the commission.
It expressly asserts, that " the exclusive cognizance of prize questions is yielded to the Courts
of the captfiring power;" and admits this exclusive cognizance as a general principle.
So, in the case of the Estrella,"the Court says:
"we have been told, as heretofore, that to the
Courts of the nation to which the captor belongs, and from which his commission issues,
exclusively appertains the right of adjudicating
on all captures and questions of prize. This is
not denied, nor has the Court ever felt any disposition to intrench on this rule; but, on the contrary, whenever it occurred, as in the case of
the Invincible, it has been governed by it." It
is stated to -be a rule " well established by the
customary and conventional law of nations ;" and
the reasons on which it rests are stated in a
clear and satisfactory manner. The rule is thus
placed on three grounds: (.) The dignity of the
sovereign who grants the commission; which
would be impaired, if any tribunal but those authorized by himself were permitted to take cognizance of the acts done under that commission; in
other words, if any one but himself were allowed
to superintend the conduct of his agents and offia S IYAheat. Rep. 308.

143

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cers; (2.) The efficient restraint and control of
those officers and agents; to whom a power most

1823.
',V

La
liable to abuse is confided bythe prize commission;
and, (3.) The responsibility of their sovereign
and nation, for the acts of unlawful violence which
they may commit against neutrals, should those
acts be sanctioned by their own government,
through its Prize Courts. Undoubtedly, all these
reasons, and especially the two first, require, that
the cognizance of questions of prize should be
confined exclusively to the Courts of the captors'
country; and these reasons apply as strongly to
the Courts of an ally, as to those of a neutral.
The Courts of the ally, like those of the neutral,
are destitute of the means of inflicting punishment
on the captor, if, in making the seizure, he have
violated the instructions of his government, acted
contrary to its general policy, or exceeded the
authority conferred by the commission. Equally
with the Courts of a neutral, they are without the
means of ascertaining what was the policy of the
commissioning government, or its general rules
and regulation s, or what particular instructions
accompanied the commission. It is the practice
of every government to require sureties from those
to whom it grants commissions of prize, for their
proper conduct under the commission, and for the
observance of their instructions. These sureties
must reside in the country where the commission
is granted. Consequently, they must be out of
the reach of the government and Courtu of an
ally, as much as of a neutral; and, consequently,
the security must be wholly unavailing, if the

Nereyda.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823; prizes made under the commission, or by colour of
o _v . it, may be carried into the ports of an ally, and
L N "a'..adjudicated in his Courts. Not being able to
reach the sureties, they would be equally unable to
reach the property of the principal offender, which
would, also, be in.his owitcountry. No decree for
damages, or even for costs, however flagrant the
case might be, could be enforced against his sureties, or his property. Nothing would be left but
the imprisonment of his person; and, as he would
have offended *against no law of the ally, would'
have infringed none of its orders or instructions,
it would be extremely doubtful, at least, how far
any penal proceedings could be supported against
his person. All that could be done, would be,
to rescue his illegally acquired booty from his
grasp, by a sentence of restitution. It is easy. to
see how utterly inadequate this remedy must often
prove, and how greatly the temptation to take
the chance of succeeding in an illegal and unauthorized seizure must be increased, by such a state
of impunity.
It cannot escape observation, that no where, by
no writer or advocate, nor in any adjudged case, is
any distinction taken, or hinted at, between the
case of an ally, and that of a neutral, in the application of this rule. It is every where laid down
absolptely, and withput exception; and in a very
recent case, the Josepha Secunda,a it is taken for
granted by this Court, and forms the basis of its
decision.
a 5 Wheat. Rep. 358.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

If we advert to the foundation of the prize juris- 1823.
diction, we shall find reasons equally strohg, for
confining it exclusively to the Courts of the c La Nereyda.
tors' country. This jurisdiction is declared by
this Court, in the case of Hudson v. Guestir,a
to he founded entirely on the " possession" of the
res catpta. " The seizure vests the possession in
the sovereign of the captor, and subjects the vessel to the jurisdiction of his Courts." And,
again; " possession of the res by the sovereign,
has be'en considered as giving jurisdiction to his
Courts." Now, let it be asked, who had possession
of the Nereyda while she lay at Ju n Griego ?
Certainly not -the government of Venezuela; but
that of Artegas, through its agent and officer,
the commander of the capturing vessel. This
Court asserts most positively, in the case just
cited, "that, the possession of the chptor is, in
principle, the possession of his sovereign"- They
add, " he, the captor, is commissioned to seize in
the name of the sovereign, and is as much an
officer appointed for that service, as one who,in
the body of a county, serves a civil process."
Then the possession of the res capta.was in the
government of Artegas; and as it is the possession
of the r s by the sovereign that gives jurisdiction
to his Courts, it follows inevitably, that the Courts
of Venezuela, the government of which had no
possession of the captured property, could take no
cognizance of the capture ; and, consequently,
that the sentence of the Court of Juan Griego is
a 4 Cranchs Rep. 296, 297.
Vol,. VJIT:

19

146

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

void, for want of jurisdiction in the Court by
which it was pronounced.
\
La Nereyda.
Let it not be imagined, that the possession was
altered, or izr any manner affepted, by the bringing of the captured property into the port of the
ally. This Court has emphatically declared, in
the same case before cited, that " the sovereign
whose officer has, in his name, captured a vessel
as prize of war, remains in possession of that
vessel, and has full power over her so long as she
is in a situation in which that possession cannot
be rightfully devested." The. same doctrine is
asserted by all the Judges, in the case of Rose
v. Himely, although there was much difference
of opinion among the Judges on other points.
Could, then, this possession have been rightfully
devested by the government of Venezuela, within
whose territory the captured vessel had been
brought? In the case of a neutral territory, this
Court has expressly adjudged, in Hudson v. Guestier, that it could not. Upon what principle,
then, could it be devested by the government of
an ally? Ought not the captor to have as much
immunity, as much safety, as many privileges in
the ports of his friend and ally, his co-belligerent,
as in those of a mere neutral ? How could he be
deprived of the possession ? It could only be by
an act of violence; and that, ex vi termini, would
be wrongful. So far from being rightful,it would
be an act of hostility and war.
But might not the captor, it may be asked, part
a 4 tranch'sRep. 269.

b 4 Cranch'8 Rep. 297.

OF THE UNITED.STATES.

147

from h4s possession, ant transfer it to the doye- I W.
reign of the ally, so as to give jurisdiction to thie
Courts of the latter? 1 4nswer, that he could Ix Nerfd.
not; because, the possession belongs to his sovereign, and not to him. He is merely the agent
of the sovereign, for taking and holding the possession; and having no authority to transfer the
possession, he could not rightfully transfer it, so as
to afflet the right of his sovereign, to whQm it
belongs. It would be a breach of faith and ditty,
in him, to make the transfer; and to accept it
would be a wrongful act on the part of the allied
sovereign, upon which, according to a universal
prinQiple of law, no right could be founded. The
captor, it is true, hp an interest in the prize, by
the grant of his sovereign; but, until a legal condemnation, that interest is inchoate and contingent. In the mean time, he has no power oyer it,
except that of conducting it into a place ofrsafety,
and keeping it safely, till it can be brought to adjudication in the Courts of his sovereign.
The treatise of Dr. Brown on the Civil and
Admiralty Lawa and the case of Oddy v. Bovill,
in the English Court of K. B.,b have been cited on
the other side, to show that the Courts of one ally
paytake cognizance of prizes made under the com,missions of the other. But Dr. Brown cites no authority, and offers no reasons in support of his doe-.
trine; which is evidently a mere mistake, arising
from his having confounded the Courts of an ally
with Prize Courts of the capturing power, sitting
a Vol. 1I. p. 257.281.

b 2 East's Rep. 479.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823..

within the territory of his ally.

Scase in Oddy v. Bovill, and in
La Nereyda. cited from Robinson's Reports.

This was the
the cases there
The case of

Oddy v. Bovill related to a Danish vessel, captured by the French, and condemned by the French
consul at Malaga, exercising there, by the consent
of Spain, the powers of a Prize Courtof France, at
a time when those two nations were at war against
Great Britain. as allies. The question was, whether the condemnation was valid; in other words,
whether the French Prize Court had jurisdiction
of the case. The decision of the Court of K.
B. (two Judges only being present,) was in favour
of the jurisdiction. It might here be remarked,
that the determination of an English Court of
common law, on such a question, made long since
our independence, possesses no intrinsic authority
here; and that a single case, decided by two
Judges only, out of four, or rather out of twelve,
has very little authority any where. But, waiving these objections, let it be asked, to what does
this decision really amount ? Does it affirm the
principle contended for; that the Prize Courts of
one ally may take cognizance of questions of
prize, arising under captures made by the other?
Certainly not. It establishes nothing more than
this; that one ally may, with the assent of the
other, establish Prize Courts of his own, within
the territory of that other. This is obviously a,
very different principle, and entirely free from the
objections to which the other is liable. It preserves entire, that great and beneficial rule of publie law, founded on the most solid reasons of gene-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ral safety, convenience, and benefit, that questions
of prize shall be exclusively reserved to the Courts

1825.

sit- La Nexeyd
of the captors' country. The French Court
ting in Malaga, was as much a French Court, to
all intents and purposes, as if it had sat in Marseilles or Brest. Its location in a Spanish port,
was a matter in which Spain alone had any concern. It was wholly indifferent to the opposite
belligerent, and to neutrals. Its proceedings and
decrees were exactly the same in the one case as
in the otier. The dignity of the French government was as well preserved, the Court had the
same control over the captors, the same means of
judging how far their conduct was conformable to
the instructions, laws, and policy of their government, and the same means of enforcing decrees
against them, for costs and damages. Recourse
could as effectually be had to their property or
their sureties ; and, in case of need, to their government, for redress. The rule is, theref6re,
maintained in this case, and all its-beneficial objects are secured. Whereas, by extending this
jurisdiction to the Courts of the ally, this great
and beneficial rule is wholly subverted.
These remarks on the case of Oddy v. Bovfil,
apply fully to those which are there cited from
Robinson's Reports. The first of them, that of
the Ckhrist&pher,a by no means comes up to the
case jusi commented on. It was the case of a
British ship taken by the French, and carried into
a port of Span, then the ally of France; from
a 2 Rob. 273.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

j823. whence the papers were sent to BayoiuieinFrance.
\ ", '
La Nereyda.

The ship was there libelled in the Prize Coart,
and condemned; and the objection to the validity
of this condemnation, was not that it was pronounced by the Court of an ally, or by a Court of
the captors' government sitting in the territory of
an ally; but that when it was pronounced, the res
,capta was within the territory of the ally.. This
objecton was overruled by Sir W. Scott, on the
principle repeatedly affirmed by this Court, that
-thepossession of the captor, for, and in behalf of
-:his government, which, is the foundation of the
prize jurisdiction, continued in the country of the
,ally. This principle, after much hesitation., was
afterwards extended by him in the case of the
I enrick and Ajaria,; to the case of captured
property carried into a neutral port, and lying there
when it was condemned in a Court of the captors*
,countiy. He declared his own opinion to be different, but held himself bound by a practice long
established in the Court where he presided.
The other cases from Robinson, relied on in
Oddy v. Bovill, are those of the HYarmony, the
Adelaide, and the Betsey Cruger. They are all
referred to in a note to the ease of the Christopher,b

and were all cases of condemnations by

French Prize Courts, sitting in the territory of
Holland, while that power was an ally of France,
in the war against Great Britain. The vessels
were all condemned by the French commissary
of Marine, at Rotterdam. The two first cases
a 4 Rob, 5)2.

2 2 Rob. 172.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

occurred in 1799 ; and an order for farther proof 1823.
being passed, the question of law respecting the 1'v
In La NeraydL
legality of such condemnations was reserved.
the third case, that of the Betsey Cruger,in 1800,
it was given up by the counsel, and the legality of
the condemnation was admitted by the Court.
But, still, it was a condemnation, not by the
Court of the ally, as in the case at bar, but by the
Court of the captors' country, in strict conformity
to the rule for which we contend.
Some general expressions of Sir W. Scott, in
pronouncing his judgment in the case of the
Chrisopher, are supposed to countenance the
doctrine of condemnation by the Courts of an ally.
But these expressions must be modified and restrained by reference to the subject matter. He
was speaking of a case of condemnation by a
Court of the captors' country, sitting in that country, while the res capta was in the territory of an
ally. To such a case alone was his attention
directed; and in reference to such a case alone are
his expressions to be considered. Taken, as they
must be, with this limitation, they leave untouched
the rule for which we contend.
It has been urged, on the other side, that the
mere presence of the captured property in the
territory of Venezuela, then at war with Spain,
gave its Courts a right to treat that property as
enemy's property, and to proceed against it as
prize. But we are to recollect, that this property
was brought there by the captors, in the possession of whose government it was, by force of *the
seizure: and that this possession. thus acquired,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
v
La Nereyda.

could not rightfully be devested or disturbed. The
property did not come thither as the property of
Spain, the enemy of Venezuela; but as the property of the captors, her allies, from whom she
had no right, or pretence f right, to take it by
force. The sovereign of the captors had the possession. The right of the original owner was
provisionally devested and destroyed by the capture ; and, in this state of things, it could not be
considered, or proceeded against, by the government of Venezuela itself, and much less by its
Prize Courts, as the property of Spain. Venezuela herself"considered the matter in this light.
She did not interfere with the possession of the
captors, or their rights of property. Her Courts
merely attempted, at the instance of the captors,
and for their benefit, to exercise, in relation to this
property, that prize jurisdiction which belonged
exclusively to the Courts of their own country.
4. Admitting, however, the sentence of condemnation to be valid'; there is still another ground
on which the claim set up under it ought to be rejected by this Court. It is admitted that Daniels
is a citizen of the United States, resident with his
family in Baltimore ; and it is in proof, that the
vessel with which he made this capture, was fitted
out, armed, and manned in the Chesapeake. If,
then, he shall appear to be the real claimant, and
not Francesche, in which name Childs professes
to claim, his case is exposed to the full operation
of that maxim of law, which declares, that no
rights can be founded on a wrong: Quod ex
mnaleficio non oritur actio. He appears, in that

OF THE UNITED STATES.

153

case, in a Court. of the United States, to ask its 182
of a claim founded on a direct La- Wereyda.
aid in the assertion
"
violation of our laws and treaties. The acts of
Congress expressly forbid, under severe penalties, the armament of vessels within our territory,
by our citizens or others, to cruise against any'
nation with whom we are at peace ; and the fourteenth article of the treaty of 1795, with Spain,
expressly stipulates, that no American citizen shall
take a. commission from any foreign power, to
cruise'against Spain, her people or property, on
pain of being treated as pirates. Although it
might-be difficult, as this Court remarked on a
former occasion, to enforce the penalty of piracy
against Daniels, there can be no doubt that, if he
be the real claimant, his claim is founded on his
violation of the laws and treaties of his own country.
Here the learyied counsel argued minutely upon
the facts, to show, that the alleged sale to Francesche was fraudulent, or had never taken place.
He also insisted upon the want of a bill of sale,
or some equivalent document, as a fatal objection
to the claim of the pretended purchaser.a
5. If, however, Francesche must be considered
as a real purchaser for himself; and our objections to the commission under which the capture
was made, and to the condemnation founded on
it, are to be regarded as invalid; we still insist,
that the captured property ought to be restored,
a The Bello Corranes, 6 Whieat. Rep. 170.
id. 239.
VOL. VUL

20

The Conception,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

on the ground ot the illegal outfit of the capturing
~ vessel. Here we are met by two objections; one
La Nereyda. founded on the condemnation in the Prize Court
1823.

of Venezuela, by which it is alleged, that all inquiry on the subject is closed ; and the other on
the commission of prize granted by the government of Venezuela to the captured vessel, after
the condemnation.
The first of these objections rests on the ground,
that both the capture and the condemnation are
valid. We have endeavoured to show, that neither of them is so; because the Oriental Republic,
of which Artegas, in granting the commission
under which the capture was made, claims to act
as the chief, is not a government acknowledged
by ours, so as to be known to our Courts of justice ; and because the Prize Court of Venezuela
had no jurisdiction of the capture, admitting it to
have been rightfully made. But if the capture
and condemnation be free from these objections,
what is the effect of the sentence in withdrawing
from our Courts the power of protecting and enforcing our neutrality ? This is a momentous
question, novel in itself, and of the utmost importance in its consequences to the peace and
honour of this nation.
In discussing it we must first turn our attention
to the peculiar state of things to which it applies,
to the nature of the war out of which it arises,
and to the character and structure of the Courts
for whose decisions such an effect is claimed.
In adverting to the state of things to which this
question applies, we cannot but remark, that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

nations of South America, now engaged in war 182.
against Spain, a'-e composed of colonies heretode- La Neryd&
fore kept in a most rigid and slavish state of
pendence on the, mother country, and studiously
debarred from all means of acquiring general
know dge, habits of self-government, or an acquaintance with the raes 4nd principles of public
law, as practised or acknowledged by civilized
States.- Hence, they may be expected to be, and
are, in fact; much more anxious to find means of
ahnoying their enemy, than capable of judging
how far thoee means might be consistent with the
rights of neutral and friendly nations. They are,
moreover; wholly" destitute of the elements of maritime power. Their former masters restrained
them from commerce, shipbuilding, and navigation; for all of which, indeed, their 'country, from
its want of ports, is peculiarly unfit. Their pursuits and habits are essentially agricultural. They
are destitute of ships, equipments, shipbuilders,
and mariners; For a naval force, consequently,
the want of which they have always severely felt,
they must look to foreigners; and there are none
so near as the United States, or so ready to aid
them, as that portion of our maritime population,
which is ever more eager for enterprise and gain,
than scrupulous of means.
The manner in which the war has been carried
on between the South Americans and Spain, and
in which it will, no doubt, continue to be carried
on, while it exists, is peculiarly calculated to inflame the resentments of both parties, and to rend6r each more and more eager to seize on every

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

means of distressing its enemy. The South Americans, too, from the infant state and imperfection
La Neyda. of their systems of finance, the disturbed state
of their country, and their great sacrifices and
efforts, are extremely deficient in revenue, and little
able to maintain, or to provide a regular naval force
for the public service. They cannot take North
American vessels into pay, and commission them
as public ships. Their only resource, consequently,
is to engage and encourage private adventurers,
by granting them privateering commissions; and
they, unfortunately, find multitudes in this country, who, through lust of gain, or a restless and
irregular spirit of enterprise, catch eagerly at this
bait. The profits of these irregular adventures
depend, almost entirely, on the power of bringing
the prizes into the United States; where alone
they can find an adequate and advantageous market. Our laws inflict restitution to the former
owners, as one of the means, and by far the most
efficacious, of restraining these proceedings, so
incompatible with our honour, peace, and true
interest. Our Courts rigorously and succespfully
enforce this penalty of restitution. The other,
and more penal enactments, are much more easily
eluded, by the various artifices and subterfuges
which such persons know but too well how .to
employ. An attempt is now made to elude this
penalty also, by the intervention of South American Courts of Prize. Let this attempt succeed;
let such a sentence as that now relied on, be once
declared by this Court to be a bar to all inquiry
concerning the violation of our laws, our treaties,
1823.
v

OF THE UNITED STATE9.

and our neutral obligations, by means of which
a capture may have been effected;

and what

1823.

in La Neryda.
prize, seized by forces provided or augmented
our ports, will ever enter them unprovided with
such a se tence ? Can we shut our eyes to the
character and composition of the Courts where
these decrees are pronounced ; to the course of
proceeding by which they are produced; to the
means by which they may be, and in fact are, procured F Can we conceal from ourselves what has
passed in this very case, and the manner in which
the sentence relied on appears to have been obtained ? Can we forget what has passed on this
subject, in other cases which have been heard
during the present term ? With all these instructive lessons before our eyes, can we declare, that
the doctrine of the conclusiveness of the sentences
of Prize Courts will apply, under such circumstances as are connected with this class of cases,
and to such an extent as to shut out all inquiry
into those antecedent violations of our laws, in
which the captures originated? If such a declaration shall be made by this high tribunal, pronouncing, in the last resort, the maritime law of
the country, most certainly no future capture will
be made under a South American commission, the
fruits of which will not find their way hither immediately, clothed with this protecting mantle;

and this certainty of success, and impunity, will
multiply tenfold the number of depredators, armed
and equipt in our ports, to sally forth and seize
the property of our neighbours, our friends, and
our own citizens.

CASES IN, THE SUPREMB COURT

182.

That we are at liberty to look to considerations
of this sort, in the application of established
La Nere da. maxims, and rules of law, to new combinations of
v

circumstances, is not only manifest from the nature
of the thing, and the general practice of all Courts
in analogous cases, but has been emphatically asserted by one of the members of this-.tribunal, in
a verylearned and elaborate judgment, which contains many important principles, and cannot fail to
attract.great attention.a
Our laws'against arming and equipping vessels
in our waters, to cruise against our friends, cannot
be enforced; our treaties on this subject cannot
be executed; our peace and our honour cannot
be preserved ;-if it shall be adjudged by this
Court, that a sentence of condemnation such as
this, precludes all inquiry into the measures and
means by which the force for making the capture
was provided. Considerations of such magnitude
would justify and require a modification of the
principle on which this doctrine of conclusiveness
rests, in its application to cases of this description,
if it were so extensive as to embrace them.
But we deny that it does embrace them. The
principle is merely this; that as Prize Courts are
open to all the world, all the world are parties to
a prize proceeding, and it, therefore, concludes all
the world. There may be some objections to the
terms in which this proposition is commonly
stated, and to the correctness of the reasoning
a Per Mr. Justice STORY, in the case of the Jeune Eugenie
since reported in the second volume of Air. MNaon's Reports.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which it embraces; but it may be admitted to be
true in relation to those matters, which come, or
might have come, rightfully before the Prize Court.
Such are all questions of prize or no prize, and
all their incidents. But the rule haa never been
held to extend, nor do any of the reasons, solid
or fanciful, on which it rests, extend to matters
which could not, or did not, come rightfully before the Prize Court pronouncing the sentence.
Such are all cases where it had no jurisdiction.
The point of its jurisdiction, though asserted by
it ever so formally and positively, is always open
to inquiry; and where it has gone beyond its jurisdiction, its acts are treated -as nullities. Why?
Because those matters did not, and could not, come
rightfully before it. So, its sentence will be disregarded, unless the libel on which it was founded
be shown; because, without the libel, it cannot
appear that there was jurisdiction; or, consequently, that the matters adjudicated came rightfully before the Court. Now, it is quite clear, that
this violation of our neutral duties, and our laws,
by providing or augmenting within our territory
the force by which this capture was effected, never
did come, and never could have come, before the
Prize Court at Margaritta. That Court had no
knowledge of our laws, and nothing to do with
their enforcement. There neither was, norcould
be, any party in the proceedings, who had a right
to make the objection. It could not have been
made by the former owners; who would have
been told, and correctly told, that as they were
enemies, their propertywas liable to condemnation,

1823.
La Ner yda.

160

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i823.
'

however it might have been seized; that they had
nothing to do with the mode, or the means of capLa Nereda. ture ; and that it belonged to the government of
the United States alone, whose rights were alleged
to have been infringed, to assert and protect those
rights, and to complain of the violation of its laws.
This would have been a solid and sufficient answer
to the former owners. As to the United States;
they had not then acknowledged the government of
Venezuela, and, consequently, could have no minister or diplomatic agent there, to interpose for the
protection of their rights. The question, therefore, never could have been raised or adjudicated
in the Prize Court of Venezuela, which had no
jurisdiction over it, nor any means of bringing it
into judgment. The sentence, consequently, of
thi' Prize Court, is not conclusive on the question
of antecedent violations of cur laws, committed
by making the capture, or preparing 6r augmenting the force by means of which it was made.
These violptions formed no part of the question of
prize or no prize, or of any of its incidents; and,
consequently, could never have come rightfully,
and, in fact, did not come at all, before the Court
pronouncing this sentence. Therefore they make
no part of the sentence, which is not in the least
impugned or impeached by inquiring into them, or
inflicting on their, authors the penalty of restitution.
Where; indeed, is the difference between this
and any other penalty, pronounced by our laws
.against similar 'violators ? Will it be pretended
that we cannot proceed criminally against these'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

captors, for arming, fitting, or recruiting in our
waters, because the fruits of their offence have

1823.

been adjudged to them as prize, by the Prize La Nexyda.
Court of Venezuela? I presume not; and if the
sentence cannot-screen them frqm one part of the
punishmdent, upon what ground can it be considered as sufficient to screen them from another?
Does this-Court, in ordering restitution, impeach
the sentence, or meddle with it in any manner whatever ? Does it inquire whether the sentence was
right or wrong ? Certainly not; but admitting,
that the sentence rightly disposed of the question
of prize or no prize, and all its incidents, it seizes
the goods, when found within our jurisdiction, as
forfeited by the violation of the law, and restores
them-to the former ownbr as part of the penalty
of this offence. This is the substance, although
the form is different.
6. The last question in the cause is, whether
the commission of prize, granted to this captured
vessel by the.government of Venezuela, after the
condemnation, can shut out all inquiry into the
antecedent violation of our laws, by means of
which the capture was effected.
Much of what has already been said, as to the
effect of the condemnation itself, will apply here.
We cannot but know how easily such commissions
as this may be obtained, how readily they are
granted, and how certainly every prize ship would
be clothed with one, if it were pronounced here
to have the effect of preventing all inquiry into the
means or place of capture. *The mischief, indeed,
thus produced, would be less formidable than the
VOL.YMI.
21

CASES JN THE SUPREME COURT

other; because it would apply only to vessels,
are by far the least important objects of
La Neeyd. capture; but as far as it goes, it would render our
1823.

'which

laws for the preservation of our neutrality a complete nullity.
And upon what principle can it be contended,
that a foreign commission of prize will produce
such effects ? Upon the principle of comity, it is
answered; upon the ground of implied assent,
under which the public ships of friendly States
come into our ports, and which protects them
from molestation while here. But this immunity
is granted so long as they comport themselves
well ; and has never been considered as protecting
them from the consequences of violating our laws.
To this point the case of the Cassiusais full and
express. The Cassius was not merely a vessel
bearing a French commission of prize, but a public ship bf the French government, regularly commissioned as a part of the French navy. But
she had been fitted out within our territory, in
contravention of our laws; and coming, afterwards, within oir jurisdiction, under the French
flag, and a regular commission, she was proceeded
against to forfeiture for this offence. The decision is cited, relied on, and sanctioned by this
Court, in the case of the Invincible;' and it is
declared, that " there could be no reason suggested for creating a distinction (in relation to the restitution of prizes made in violation of neutrality)
a I Dali. Rep. 121. 2 Dall.Rep. 36.5.
b 1 WJwal. Rep. 253.

OF THE UNITED STATES;

between the national -and the private armed yes- 182.
sels of a belligerent."
In this ease, indeed, of the Cassius, the vessel La Nereyda
which was subjected to the operation of the law,
notwithstanding her foreign commission, had herself committed the offence of illegal outfit. But
this circumstance can make no difference in the
application of the principle of comity, and implied
license. If that principle would not protect the
offending vessel herself, though clothed with
a public commission, and the flag of the navy, a
forti6ri,-Iapprehend it will not protect the spoil,
the fruit of the offence. Why should it protect
one more than the other ? One is the instrument
of the offence, and the other is its product. The
offence is committed in relation to both. To
punish the offence, and by punishing to restrain
its commission, is the object in both cases. This
furnishes the reason of the application, which is
as strong at least in one case as in the other,
indeed, it is much stronger, as far as the practical
consequences of the two acts are concerned; for
the eapturing ship may avoid our ports after she
has been well equipped; but the captured ship,
which is either to be sold or equipped, must come
here for a purchaser, or for equipment. Therefore, in every case, she will be sure to come under
the protecting cover of a commission, if you once
declare such a cover sufficient.
The cases of the Exchage,"and the Invincibe, have been relied on to support the doctrine
a 7 Craneh's Rxp. 116.

b I Wheal. Rq , 250.

164
1823.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of' immunity, in application to this case. But neiand distinneutrality.

Sther of them resemble it in its great
La Nereyda. guishing feature of violation of our

The Exchange was an American vessel, seized by
a French force at St. Sebastians, in Spain, aid
conducted to Bayonne, where she was taken into
the service of the French government, and regularly commissioned as a part of the French marine. She was, afterwards, sent to sea, and on
her passage to the East Indies, was compelled to
put into one of our ports by stress of weather.
While. here, she was libelled by the former owner,
on the ground, that she had been unlawfully
seized, and, consequently, that he never had been
devested of his property. The French commander produced his commission; and the question
was, whether this vdssel, not having been in any
manner connected, either as instrument or subject, with a violation of our neutrality, was protected by the comity of nations, and the implied
license under which she entered our waters. This
is manifestly a question altogether different from
that now under consideration. There was no
violation of our laws, or our neutral obligations,
as in the present case. The vessel had demeaned
herself peaceably and correctly while within our
territory; and though seized, undoubtedly, in a
violent and unjustifiable manner, the seizure was
not made by means acquired or increased within
our territory. It was, in som6 measure, analogous
to the case of a British, or a Portuguese vessel,
seized on the high seas by a cruiser regularly fitted
out in Venezuela, and comnissioned to cruise

OF THE UNITED STATES.

against Spain. We could not inquire into the 1825.
,legality of this seizure; which might be legal on
the ground of unneutral conduct on the part of La .
the captured vessel. Even if it were one of our
own vessels, we could not institute this inquiry, but
must, in both cases, remit the 'question to the domestic forum of the captor. But this case of the
Exchange has no analogy whatsoever to the case
now in question; where the demand of restitution is founded expressly on the violation of our
neutrality, our treaties, and our laws.
Neither has the case of the Invincible any
analogy to this. That was the case of a French
privateer, taken by a British cruiser during the
war between Great Britain and France, retaken
by an American cruiser, we also being then at war
with Great Britain, and brought by the recaptor
into an American port, where he libelled her for
salvage. While these proceedings were pending,
a claim for damages was interposed by certain
American citizens, who alleged, that the Invincible, before her capture by the British, had plundered them at sea. And the question was, whether-this claim could be sustained, or the claimant
must be left to seek his remedy against the privateer, in the Courts of France. This Court decided, that the seizure of the American property
was an exercise of the rights of war, which must
depend for its justification or condemnation on
the circumstances of the case. Consequently, that
it involved -the question of prize or no prize, which
belonged exclusively to the Courts of the captors'
country. In this respect, they said, there was no

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

difference between the case of the Invincible, and
~ those of the Cassiusand the Exchange; that is,

La Nereyda. between a private armed ship, and a ship belong-

ing to the national marine. They were all parts
of the public force, though raised and supported
in different manners; and the legality or illegality
of their conduct in making any capture, being a
question of prize or no prize, equally belonged to
the exclusive cognizance of their domestic tribunals. This principle,' it is quite clear, had no
analogy to that now advanced in support of the
claim of the captors. There was no illegal outfit.
No violation of our neutrality, or our laws, was
The act complained of
alieged or pretended.
was a capture, as of enemy's property, under a
regular French commission, by a vessel regularly
fitted out in the French territory. This capture
might be a good prize, according to the law of
nations, by reason of some unneutral Londuct in
the owner, or his agents, which rendered him, pro
tanto, a belligerent. Consequently, it was a simple question of prize or no prize, and was most
correctly adjudged to belong exclusively to the
Courts of the captors' country. But had a violation of our neutrality been alleged, either in
making the capture, or in preparing the means of
making it, the case would so far have resembled
ours, and a different course would, no doubt, have
been pursued.
March'

182.

5th,

The cause was continued to the next term,
under the following order for farther proof.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

This cause came on to be heard, on 182-.
the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Maryland) La Nereyda.
and on certain exhibits and depositions fied by
consent, and was argued by counsel. On consideration wheredf, this Court doth DIRECT and
ORDER, that the respondent have liberty to produce a copy of the libel :or other paper on which
the sentence of condemnation in the proceedings
mentioned was founded, or to acco6nt for the nonproduction of such document; and that the parties be at liberty to take any proof which may tend
to show, that the sale of the Nereyda was or was
not realand that Antonio Julio Francesche, in the
proceedings mentioned, was orwas not a bonufidei
purchaser for himself, and is, or is not, the present
owner of the said vessel.
ORDER.

The cause was again argued by the same coun- Rb. 7th,
sel, on the farther proof produced at the present
182.
term.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Cout. This cause was heard at the 'ast term,
and an order was then made, requiring the claimant to prodt e a copy of the libel, or other paper
on which the sentence was founded, or to account
for the non-production of such document; and
also requiring the production of farther proof of
the reality of the asserted sale of the Nereyda,
and of the proprietary interest of the asserted
owner. The cause has now been argued upon
the farther proof brought in by the parties, and
stands for the judgment of the Court.

.farmh

sa.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
xwas
La Nereyda.

The Nereyda.was a Spanish ship of war, and
captured by the privateer Irresistible, of which

John D. Daniels was commander, and Henry

Childs, (the claimant,) a lieutenant, under an asserted commission of the Oriental Republic of
Rio de la Plata, and was carried into Margaritt,
in Venezuela, and there condemned as prize to the
captors by the Vice Adihialty Court of that island.
A sale is asserted io- have been there made of her
to the claimant, Francesche, after condemnation,
for the sum of thirty thousand dollars. She soon
afterwards left Margaritta, under the command of
Childs, who was the original prize master, and
arrived at Baltimore, the place of residence of
Childs and Daniels, who are both American citizens; and her subsequent history, after seizure
and delivery upon stipulation or bail to the claimant, shows, that she has continued exclusively
under the control, management, and direction of
the same persons.
Necessity
of
The order to produce the libel, or to account fbr
producing the
libel, or other the omission, was made upon the fullest considerproceeding anterior to the ation
sentence

of

condemnation,
sentence asel

by the Court. Whoever sets up a title under a
condemnation, is bound to show, that the Court
had Jurisdiction of the cause; and that the sentence has been rightly pronounced upon the application of parties competent to ask it. For this
purpose, it is necessary to show who are the captors, 'and how the Court has acquired authority to
decide the cause. In the ordinary cases of belligerent capture, no difficulty arises on this subject,
for the Courts of the captors have general jurisdiction of prize, and their adjudication is conclu-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sive upon the proprietary interest. But where, as 182S.
in the present case, the capture is made by captors acting under the commission of a foreign La Nereyda.
country, such capture gives them a right which no
other nation, neutral to them, has authority to impugn, unless for the purpose of vindicating its own
violated neutrality. The Courts of another nation, whether an ally or a co-belligerent only, can
acquire no general right to entertain cognizance of
the cause, unless by the assent, or upon the voluntary submission of the captors. In such a case, it
is peculiarly proper to show the .jurisdiction of the
Court by an exemplification of the proceedings anterior to the sentence of condemnation. And in all
cases, it is the habit of Courts of justice to require
the production of the libel, or other equivalent
document, to verify the nature of the case, and ascertain the foundation of the claim of forfeiture
as prize.
Notwithstanding tlib direct order for the production of the libel in this case, none has been
produced; nor has the slightest reason been given
to account for its non-production. The general
usage of maritime nations, to proceed in prize
causes to adjudication in this manner, either by a
formal libel, or by some equivalent proceeding, is
so notorious, that the omission of it is not to be
presumed on the part of any civilized government,
which professes to proceed upon the principles of
international law. How, then, are we to account
for the omission in this case ? If, by the course of
proceedings in Venezuela, a libel does not constitute any part of the acts of its Courts, that could
VOL. VIIL

22

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

be easily shown. The neglect to show this, or in
manner to account for the non-production of
libel, if it exists, cannot but give rise to, unfavourable suspicions as to the whule transactioi.
And where an order for farther proof is made, and
the party disobeys its injunctions, or neglects to
comply with them, Courts of Prize are in the habit
of considering such negligence as contumacy,
leading to presumptions fatal to his claim. We
think, in this case, that the non-production of the
libel, under the circumstances, would justify the
rejection of the claim of Francesche.
Upon the other point, as to the proprietary interest of Francesche under the asserted sale, there
is certainly very positive testimony of witnesses
to the reality of the sale to him, and to his ability
to make .the purchase. And if this testimony
stood alone, although it is certainly not, in all respects, consistent or harmonious, no difficulty
would be felt in allowing it entire judicial credence. But it is encountered by very strong circumstances on the other side ; and circumstances
will sometimes outweigh the most positive testimony. It is remarkable, that from the institution
of this cause up to the present time, a period of
nearly four years, Francesche has not, by any
personal act, made himself a party to the cause.
He has never made any affidavit of proprietary
interest; he has never produced any document
verified by his testimony; he has never recognised
the claim made in his behalf; he has never, as far
as we have any knowledge, advanced any money
for the defence. of it. Yet, the brig is admitted

aany
La Nereyda. the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to have been a valuable vessel, and was purchased,

1823.

as is asserted, for the large sum of thirty thousand

it is the La Nermyds.
dollars. Upon an order of farther proof,
nei.
whatof pro.
usual, and almost invariable practice, for the dence
1prie-ry
Is tequila
claimant .to make proofs, on his own oath,
. o of his--rest
proprietary interest, and to give explanations of on

rights, and proo
the pature, origin, and character of his
of the difficulties Which surround them. This it
is so much the habit of Courts of Prize to expect,
that -the very absence of such proofs always leads
to considerable doubta. How are we to account
for such utter indifference and negligence on the
part of Francesche, as to the fate of so valuable
aproperty? Is it consistent with the ordinary pru•dence which every 'man applies to the preservation
of his own interest ? Can it be rationally explained,
but upon the supposition, that his interest in this
suit is nominal, and not real.
This is not all. Immediately after the ostensible sale to Francesche, the Nereyda was put in
command of Childs, an American citizen, who
was an utter stranger to him, as far as we have
any means of knowledge, and sailed for Baltimore, the home port of the Irresistible, and the
domicil. of Daniels and Childs. There is no evidence that she has ever revisited Margaritta, and
there is positive evidence, that she has, for the
three last years, been in habits of intimacy with
the ports of the United States. Where are the
owner's instructions, given to the master on his
departure for Baltimore? Where is the documentary evidence of Francesche's ownership? Where
are the proofs of his disbursements for the vessel

fLter

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

during her subsequent voyages? From the time
her voyage to Baltimore, she has remained
La Nereyda. under the management of Daniels, or Childs,-or
Sof

some other apparent agent of Daniels. She has
undergone extensive repairs, her rig has been
altered, heavy expenses have been incurred, and
a new master has been appointed to her. Under
whose authority have all these acts been done ?
Where are the orders of Francesche for these
acts? Daniels has con.stantly been connected
with the vessel; he has superintended her repairs;
he 'or his agents have paid the bills ; he is the reputed owner of the vessel; and he has been consulted as to the material operations. How can all
these things be, and yet the real owner be a foreigner, a Venezuelian ? How can he be presumed
to lay by, without any apparent interposition in the
destiny of his own vessel ?
There are some other extraordinary circumstances in the case. The Nereyda arrived at Margaritta under the command of Childs, as prize
master; and in a few days afterwards, Daniels arrived there with the Irresistible. The crew of the
latter vessel run away with her; and Daniels then
sailed in the Nereyda, in pursuit of the privateer,
and of course on a voyage for his own peculiar
benefit. How is this reconcilable with the supposition of a real sale to Francesche ? What intorest had the latter in regaining the Irresistible, or
subduing a revolted crew? Why should his vessel, after that object was accomplished, have gone
.to Baltimore ? Why should he intrust to strangers, for a voyage in which lie had tp appnreni in-

OF THE UNITED STATES,.

173

terest, so valuable a property ? If he made any 1823.
contract for that voyage, why is not that contract
produced? These are questions which it seemsLa Netaeyda.
very difficult to answer in any manner useful to the
asserted proprietary interest of Francesche. Yet
the facts, to which allusion is here made, are drawn
from the farther proof of the claimant; and this
farther proofl it is not immaterial to observe, comes
not from Margaritta, where Francesche resided,
and for aught that appears, still resides ; but from
La Guayra, with which he is not shown to have
any immediate connexion.
Looking, therefore, to all the circumstances of
the case, the fact of the unchanged possession of
the captors, the habits of the vessel, the apparent
control of the propertyby Daniels, the utter absence
of all proper documentary proofs of ownership,
instructiohi, disbursements, and even connexion
with her on the part of the claimant, we think
that there is the strongest reasons to believe, that
no real sale ever took place, and that the property
remains still in the original captors, unaffected by
the asserted transfer. The positive evidence is
completely borne down by the strong and irresistible current of circumstantial evidence which opposes it.

Upon both grounds, therefore, viz. the omission to produce the original libel, or account for
its non-production, and the insifficiency of the
proofs of proprietary interest, the Court are of
opinion, that the cause must he decided against the
asserted claim.
If this bc so. then. ag it is clear that the original

CASES IN THE SUPREME. COURT

1823.
launt

V. .

outfit of the privateer Irresistible was illegal, upon
the principles already established by this Court,
the property of the Nereyda remains in his ma-

Rousmier. jesty the King of Spain, and ought to be restored

accordingly.

The decree of the Circuit Court is,

therefore, reversed, and the Nereyda is ordered to

be restored to the libellant, with costs of suit.
Decree reversed.

[CHAffcEarY.

LETTERL OF ATTORLNEY.)

HUNT V. ROUSMAXIER's

Administrators.

A lettet of attorney may, in general. be revoked by the party maklin
it, and is revoked by his death.
Where it forms a part of a contract, and is a security for the performance of any act, it is usually made irrevocable in terms, or if
not so made, is deemed irrevocable in law.
But a power of attorney, though irrevocable during the life of the
party, becomes (at law) extinct by his death.
But if the power be coupled with an interest, it survives the person
-giving it, and may be executed after his death.
To constitute a power coupled with an interest, there must be an interest in the ting itself,and not merely in the execution of the power.
How far a Court of equity, will compel the specific execution of a
contract, intended to be secured by an irrevocable power of attorney, which was revoked by operatidn of law on the death of the
party.
The general rule, both at law, and in equity, is, that parol testimony
. is hot admissible to vary a written instrument.
But, in cases of fraud and mistake, Courts of equity will relieve.
1B seems, that a Court of equity will relieve in a case of mistake of

law merely.

