CASES IN TffE SUPREME COURT

1823.
.Fleckner
.7.
U. S. Bauk.

[PROMIBSOT~r NOTE.
F ECKNER, Plaintif

USURY.

LOCAL LAW.]

in Error,v. The PRESIDENT,

DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE BANK OF THE
UNITED STATES, Defendants in Error.
The Act of the loth of April, 1816, c. 44. incorporating the Bank
of the United States, does not, by the 9th rule of the fundamental
articles, prohibit the Bank from discounting promissory notes, or
receiving a transfer of notes in paymentof a debt due the Bank.
The Bank of the U. S., and every other Bank, not restrained by
its charter, and also private bankers, on discounting notes and bills,
have a right to deduct the legal interest from the amount of the
note or bill, at the time it is discounted.
The Bank of the U. S. is not restrained, by tha 9th rule of the fundamental articles of its charter, from thus deducting interest, at
the rate of 6 per cent., on notes or bills discounted by it.
Banks, and other commercial corporations, may bind themselves by
the acts of their authorized officers and agents, without t*B corporate seal.
The negotiability of a promissory note, payable to order, is not
restrained by the circumstance of, its being given for the purchase
of real property in Louisiana, and the notary, before whom the
contract of sale is executed, writing upon it the words "stn varetur," according to the laws and usages of that State, and other
countries governed by.the Civil law.
The statutes of usury of England, and of the States of the Union,
expressly provide, that usurious contracts shall be utterly void; but,
without such a provision, ;hey are not void as against parties who
are strangers to the usury.
The statute incorporating the Bank of the U. S. does not avoid securities on which usurious interest may have been taken, and the
usury cannot be set up as a defence to a note on which it is taken.
It is merely a violation of the charter, for which a remedy may be
applied by the Government.

ERROR to the District Court for the District

of Louisiana.

This was a suit brought by the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

defendants in error against the plaintiff in error, 1823.
in the Court below, upon a promissory note drawn
by him, dated the 26th of MarQh, 1818, for the
v.
Bik.
S.
U.
one
of
order
the
to
payable
sum of 10,000 dollars,
John Nelder, on the first of March, 1820. The
plaintiffs beloW, i-4 their petition, made title to the
note through several mesne endorsements, the last
of which was, that of the President, &c. of the
Planters' Bank of New-Orleans, through their
cashier,- as agent. The answer of the defendant
below set up several grounds of defence: (1.) That
the Bank of the United States purchased the note
in question from the Planters' Bank, which was a
tradingwithin the prohibitions of the charter of
'the Bank of the United States. (2.) That the
transfer was usurious, it having been made in consideration of a loan or discount to the Planters'
Bank, upon which more than at the fate of six
per centum per annum was taken by the Bank of
the United States. (3.) That the cashier of the
Planters' Bank had no authority to make the transfer. (4.) That the making the promissory note
by the defendant below was not a mercantile t*ansaction, or governed by mercantile usages or laws,
because it'was given as the part consideration of
the purchase by him of a plantation and slaves,
from the said Nelder, and that the notary, before
whom the contract of sale was executed and recorded, wrote on the note the words "ne varietur," by which every holder of the note might
know it was not a mercantile transaction, and
could- obtain knowledge of the circumstances
under which it was given. And the answer pro-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ceeded to state, that Nelder had no title 'to a part
Fleekn~r of the plantation and slaves, and that the note
V. ought not to be paid until the title was made good;
U: S. Bank. and prayed, that the matters thus alleged and put
18,23.

in issue, might be inquired of by a jury.
The issue was joined, and it appeared in evidence on the trial, that the note in question was
discounted-for the Planters' Bank, by the Bank of
the United States, and, after deducting for the"
time the note wa§ to run a sum equal to the rate
of six per cent. per annum, the residue was car-.
ried to the credit of the Planters' Bank, which
was at that time indebted to the Bank of the United States in a large sum of money. The counsel for the defendant below moved the Court to
instruct the jury, upon this evidence, " that the
receiving the transfer of the said promissory note,
and the payment o'f the amount in account, as
stated in the evidence, was a dealing in notes, and
such dealing was dontrary to the provisions of the
act incorporating the said bank." The Court 'efused to give the instruction prayed, for, but did
instruct the jury, "that the acceptance of an endorsed note, in payment of a debt due, is -not a
trading in things prohibited by the act."
The Court also instructed the jury, that the discount taken by the Bank of the United States
was not usurious, and would not defeat their right
to recover the amount of the note.
It also appeared in evidence, that the Board of
Directors of the Planters' Bank, on the 21st of
October, 1818, passed a resolution, " That the
president ind -cashier be authorized to adopt the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

most effectual measures to liquidate, the soonest 1823.
possible, the balance due to the office of discount -'."
Fleckner
and deposit in this city, [New-Orleans,] as well
as all others presently due, and which may in the U. S.Bin
future become due to any banks of the city." The
endorsement of the note was made to the Bank
of the United States, on the 5th of September,
1819; and before the commencement of the present suit, to wit, on the 27th of June, 182(}, the
Board of Directors of the Planters' Bank passed
another resolution, to which the corporate seal
was annexed, declaring that the two notes of the
defendant below, (of which the note now in question was one,) "were endorsed by the late cashier
of the Planters' Bank, by authority of the president and directors, and delivered to. the office of
discount and deposit, of the Bank of the United
States, and the amount passed to the credit of the
Planters' Bank ;" and that "the said board of directors do hereby ratify and confirm the said act of
their said cashier, as the act of the President,
Directors, and Company of the Planters' Bank."
Upon this evidence, the Court instructed the jury,
that the cashier had authority to endorse the note,
and that his endorsement operated a valid tfansfer.
It further appeared in evidence, that the said
note was originally given as a part consideration
for the purchase money of a plantation and slaves,
purchased by the defendant below, of Nelder,
with a covenant to warrant and defend. The
contract of sale was drawn up, executed, and recorded, before a notary, according to the laws

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

and usages of the State of Louisiana.

The no-

'' Fleckner .'

tary, upon the giving of this note. and other notes,

V.
U.S.Bar.

for the purchase money, by the defendant below,
wrote on each note the words " ne varietur."
The Court instructed the jury, that the writing of
these words did not affect the negotiability of the
note.
The defendant below excepted to these several
instructions, and the jury found a verdict for the
plaintiffs, on which judgment was rendered by the
Court below; and the cause was brought by writ
of error to this Court.

zb.

o.

Mr. Harper, for the plaintiff in error, argued,
(1.) That the purchase of the note in question, by
the Bank of the United States, from the Planters'
Bank, was a dealing or trading within the 9th
rule of the fundamental articles of the charter of
the Bank of the United States, which provides,
" that the said corporation shall hot directly or indirectly deal or trade in any thing, except bills of
exchange, gold or silver bullion, or in the sale of
goods, really and truly pledged for money lent,
and not redeemed in due time, or goods which
shall be the proceeds of its lands." (2.) He
insisted that the transfer of the note was usurious, as it was made in consideration of a discount, on which the interest was deducted at the
time of making the. discount, contrary to the provision of the same 9th rule, which declares, that
the Bank shall not " take more than at the rate of
6 per centum per annum, for or upon its loans or
discounts." He admitted that this practice of deducting the interest from the sum advancd, at the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

S43

time the discount was made, was according to the 1823.
general usage of banks and private bankers. But Fleck=
v.
he denied that this usage was lawful, since it was
plain, that by this means more than at the rate of U.8. 1k
6 per cent. per annum was received by the bank
upon the sums actually advanced. (3.) The
cashier of the Planters' Bank had no authority to
transfer the note. The transfer must have been
made by the corporation, either under its common
seal, which is the appropriate legal mode in which
these artificial persons are to act; or under the resolution of the 21st of October, 1818, which was
supposed to constitute a special authority to the
cashier to make the transfer. Upon this resolution
there were two questions: 1st. Whether it empowered the cashier to transfer the note by endorsement; and, if not, 2dly. Whether the vote
of the 27th of June, 1820, ratified the act so as
to give it validity. Upon the first question, it
should be observed, that the power, whatever its
extent might be, wasjoint to the president and
cashier, and could not be exercised by either of
these officers separately. But the power itself
was merely to liquidate the debts due to the bank,
which imports no more than an authority to ascertain and settle the amount of the debts. As to
the supposed ratification; that which is void in its
inception, cannot be made good by a subsequent
act. If an attorney, not duly appointed, exceode
his authority, his acts cannot receive validity from
a subsequent confirmation. The -confirmation
cannot relate back to, and connect itself with, an act
absolutely void. The Planters' Bank could make

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

no contract respecting its corporate property but
Fneekner under its corporate seal, or through the instrumenV..
tality of an agent or attorney appointed under
U.S.Bak. that seal. And a contract otherwise made, cannot be confirmed by a subsequent act, which is
itself not under seal. (4.) The note, in its inception, was not a commercial transaction ;. it
was given for the'purchase of real property, and
connected by the form of the contract, as executed
before the notary, with the sale, itself. So that
its negotiability was partially restrained by this
circumstance, and the title of the vendor to the
property, having failed, that fact affords. a sufficient defence to the maker of the note, into whose
hands soever it may have come. And the inscription made by the notary upon the note itself, was
intended to give notice to all the world, of the
origin and nature of the transaction, by which its
negotiability was restrained.
1823.

Mr. Chevts, and Mr. Sergeant, contra, contended, (.) That this note was either discounted
for the Planters' Bank, or taken as security for,
or in payment of a debt, deducting the discount,
which is the same thing. The Bank of the United
States is not prohibited from buying notes, nor
from taking any thing whatever in payment, or as
security for debts bona fide due.a And the great
object of the trade of banking, as -it is carried on
.by the private bankers and incorporated companies, is to discount bills and notes. (2.) Even if
a Act of 1816, incorporathig the Bank, C.A4. s. 7. 9. 11.

OF THE UNITED 'STATES.

the transfer were usurious, it would not follow 1823.
that the contract was void. If usurious between Fleckou
the endorser and endorsee, it would not avoid the
*v.
contract of the drawer, or any previous endorserf U.S.BaDk
The State law, whatever it may be, does not affect the Bank of the United States, or its contracts, which are to be governed by the act of
Congress alone. That expressly authorizes the
taking discounts on loans, and does not avoid the
securities given even for usury. Nor is this contract usurious by the State-law, by which the legal
rate of interest is 8 per cent., where the parties
have not contracted for a greater rate. Not only
is it the universal practice of the commercial world,
to take discount in advance, but the law has constantly sanctioned this practice, both in England
and in this country.' (3.) As to the endorsement
by the cashier, it was within the scope of his
general authority.0 A written or parol
authority
is sufficient to authorize a person to make a simple contract, as agent or attorney, and to bind his
principal to ihe performance'of it, without a formal letter of attorney under seal.8 So, the authority may be implied from certain relations proved
to exist between the person who acts as agent, and
the party- for whom he undertakes; and it may
sometimes be inferred from the subsequent ratification or acquiescence of the party who is to be
a Chitty on Bills, 105, 106.
b Chitty, 107, 108. 4 Yates' Rep. 223.
c Mechanics' Bank v. Bank of Columbia, 5 WVheat. Rep. 327'.
d Stackpole v. Arnold, 11 Mass. Rep. 27'. Long v. Colburn,
Id. 97. Northampton Bank v. Pepoon, Id. 288.

Vdzr VIII.

4.4

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

charged by the writing.4 But, even supposing the

official character and authority of the
not sufficient, the resolution of the
were
cashier
V.
U. s_ Bank- 21st of October, 1818, delegated a sufficient speegeneral
Fleckner

cial authority, and was fully ratified and confirmed
by the subsequent resolution. The notion that
such acts of commercial corporations must be
under seal, is exploded in this Court.' (4.) The
note being negotiable on the face of it, some circumstance must be shown to restrain its negotiability. The character of the instrument does not
depend upon the particular transaction out of
which it arises, but upon the general nature of the
instrument itself. If that be in itself a negotiable
paper, it is equally so in whatever service it may
be employed; and if connected with a sale of
lands, has all the same incidents as if given upon
a purchase of a ship or goods. One of these incidents is, to pass freely by endorsement, transferring the legal and equitable right; and another
is, that the endorsee, without notice, takes it free
from every equity. But here the circumstances
relied on would not constitute a legal defence even
in a suit brought by the payee. Here was a mere
covenant to warrant and defend,, and no actual
eviction.c Where the purchaser has a covenant in
his
equity will not relieve him from the paymentdeed,
of a bond given for the purchase money,
a Long v. Colburn, 11 Mass. Rep. 97. Emerson v. The Providence Hat Manufact. Comp.Id. 237. Erick v. Johnson, 6 Mass.
Rep. 19s.
b Bank of Columbia v. Patterson, 7 Cranch, 299.
c See Bender v. Fromberger, 4 Dall. Rep. 441.

347

OF THE UNITED STATES.

there being no eviction, but will leave him to his
remedy at law upon the

covenant 0

1823.

And, at law, Fleckner

v.
the damages will be according to the injury acBar&
S.
U.
deno
therefore,
was,
There
tually sustained
fence, either at law or in equity. And if the covenant were actually broken, the recovery would be
in damages, which could not be settled in an action on the note. Consequently, the breach of
covenant, as to part, at all events, would be no
defence.* So, if there be a partial failure of consideration, it will not constitute a defenc.d The
words "ne varieur," inscribed by the notary,
were merely intended to identify the notes, as
being those given on the. contract of sale.
Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the Feb. 28IA.
Court. The Bank of the United States brought
an action in the District Court for Louisiana District, against William Fleckner, (the plaintiff in
error,) upon a promissory note of Fleckner, dated
the 26th of March, 1818, for the sum of 10,000
dollars, payable to one John Nelder, or order, on
the first of March, 1820, for value received ; and
the bank, in their declaration by petition, made
title to the same note through several mesne ena Abbott v. Allen, 2 Johns. Cia. Rep. 519.
C. Rep. 213

S'e also I Johns.

6 7 Johns. Rep. 358. 2 i-heat. Rep. 62. note c.
c Sugd. Vend. 214, 215. Chitty on Bills, 92, 93.

Bog-

gridge v. Jones, 3 Canp. Rep. 38. 14 East's Rep. 486.
d Cook v. Greenleaf, 2 Wheat. Rep. 13. Morgan v. Richardson, 1 Camp. Rep. 40. Note. Tye v. Gwynne, 2 Camp. Rep.
346. Solomon v. Turner. 1 Starkie's Rep. 51.

348
1823.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

dorsements, the last of which was that of the
e
President, &c. of the Planters' Bank of NewFleckner
V. Orleans, through their cashier, as agent. The
UJ. S.Bank.answer of Fleckner sets up several
grounds of
defence : first, that the Bank of the United States
purchased the note in question from the Planters'
Bank, which was a trading within the prohibitions
of its charter ; secondly, that the transfer was
usurious, it having been -nade in consideration of
a loan or discount to the . Planters' Bank, upon
which more than at the rate of six per cent. per
annum was taken by the Bank of twe United
States; thirdly, that the cashier of the Planters'
Bank had no authority to make the transfer;
fourthly, that the making of the promissory note
was not a mercantile transaction, or governed by
mercantile usages or laws, because it was given as
a part consideration for the purchase by Fleckner
of a plantation and slaves from Nelder, and that
the notary before whom the sale was executed and
reeorded, wrote on the note, "ne varietur," by
which every holder of the note might know it was
not a mercantile transaction, and could obtain
knowledge of the circumstances under which it
was given. And the answer proceeds to state, that
Nelder had no title to a part of the plantation and
slaves, and that the note ought not to be paid until
the title was made good ; and it then prays, that
the matters thus alleged and put in issue may be
inquired of by a jury. The issue was joined, and
on trial the jury found a verdict for the Bank of
the United States; and the cause now comes be-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

99

fore us upon a writ of error, and a bill of excep- 1823.
tions taken at the trial.
Fleckner
v.
The various grounds assumed by the answer,
which are substantially the same as taken by the u. S.Banti.
exceptions, will be considered by the Court in the
order in which they have been mentioned.
bank
And, first, as to the alleged violation of the
• char- -theThe
U.S.
Isnotor
by
rrobibited
ter by the Bank
harter
.... of the United States, in purchas- it8
discouotof
tren
ing the note in question. The act of Congress Ing note or
receivg ofa
the 10th of April, 1816,
•
• ch. 44. incorporating the trasfer
ia debt
ry
bank, in the ninth rule of
"meratarticles, os of
] the fundamental
cc
declares, (s. 11. art. 9.) that "the said corpora- due th bar.
tion shall not, directly or indirectly, deal or trade
in any thing except bills of exchange, gold or silver bullion, or in the sale of goods really and
truly pledged for money lent, and not redeemed
in due time, or goods which shall be the proceeds
of its lands. It shall not be at liberty to purchase
any public debt whatsoever, nor shall it take more
than at the rate of six per centum per annum for
or upon its loans or discounts." It ceitainly cannot be a just interpretation of this clause, that it
prohibits the bank from purchasing any thing but
the enumerated articles, for that Would defeat the
powers given in other parts of the act. The 7th
section declares, that the bank shall have capacity
to purcuzse, receive, &c. lands, &c. goods, chattels, and effects, of whatsoever kind, natuie, and
quality, to an. amount not exceeding fifty-five millions of dollars, and the same to sell, grant, demise, alien, and dispose of. And where the act
means to prohibit purchases of any particular
thing, it uses the very term, as in the prohibition

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of purchasing any public debt, in this very clause.
And certainly there is no pretence to say, that if
V. discounting promissory notes be a purchase in
U. S. Bank. point of law, it could have been the legislative intentiun to include such an act in the prohibition.
It is notorious, that banking operations are always
carried on in our country by discounting notes.
The late Bank of the United States conducted,
and all the State banks now conduct, their business in this way. The principal profits of banks,
and, indeed, the only thing which makes them
more valuable than private stock, arises from this
source. The Legislature cannot be presumed
ignorant of these facts; and it would be absurd
to suppose, that it meant to create a bank withQut
any powers to carry on the usual business of a
bank. The act contemplates throughout, an authoity to make loans and discounts. It provides
eipressly for the establishment of offices of discount anid deposit; and the very clause now under
consideration, recognises the power of the bank
to make loans and discounts, and restricts it from
takiiig more than six per cent. on such loans .or
discounts. But in what manner is the bank .to
loan? What is it to discount ? Has it not a right
to take an evidence of the debt, which arises from
the loan? If it is to discount, must there not be
some chose in action, or written evidence of a debt,
payable at a future time, which is to be the subject
of the discount? Nothing can be clearer, than
that by the language of the commercial world, and
the settled practice of banks, a discount-by i
bank means, ex vi-termini, a deduction or drawI 23.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

back made upon its advances or loans of money, 1823.
upon negotiable paper, or other evidences of debt, Fleckner
payable at a future day, which are transferred to
V.
the bank. We must suppose that the Legislature U. S.Bank.
used the language in this its appropriate sense;
and if we depart from this settled construction,
there is none other which can be adopted, which
would not defeat the great objects for which the
charter was granted, and make it, as to the stockholders, a mere mockery. If, therefore, the discounting of a promissory note, according to the
usage of banks, be a purchase, within the meaning of the 9th rule above stated, (upon which serious doubts may well be entertained,) it is a purchase by way of discount, and permitted, by nedessary inference, from the last clause in that
rule.
The true interpretation, however, of that rule
is, not that it prohibits purchases generally, but
that it prohibits buying and selling for the purposes
of gain. It aims to interdict the bank from doing
the ordinary business of a trader or merchant, in
buying and selling goods, &c. for profit, and uses
the words "deal" and "trade," in contradistinction to purchases, made for the accommodation or
use of the bank, or resulting from its ordinary
banking operations. And that this is the true
sense of the rule, is strongly evinced by the 12th
section of the act, which enforces a penalty for
the violation of this very rule. It enacts, that if the
bank, " or any person or persons for, or to the use
of the same, shall deal or trade in buying or selling
goods, wares, merchandise, or commodities what-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18-23.
'and

V.
*BSf.L

soever, contrary to the provisions of this act, all
every person, &c. shall forfeit, &c. treble
the value of the goods, &c. in which such dealing and trading shall have 'been." The words
dealing and trading are used as- equivalent in
meaning, and they are connected with "goods,
wares, merchandises, and commodities," which
words, in mercantile language, are always used
with reference to corporeal substances, and never
to mere choses in action. And as there is no reason to suppose that the penalty was not intended
to be co-extensive 'With, the prohibitions of the 9th
rule, the exception of bills of exchange in that
rule, was either inserted ex majori cautela, or
designed to authorize the purchase and sale of
bills of exchange, at a price above their par value. At all events, doubtful phraseology of this
sort cannot be admitted to overrule a clear legislative intention of authorizing discounts; and if
so, as there are no words restricting the discounts
to any particular kind of -paper, the right must
equally apply to all kinds.
The evidence in the case- shows,"that the note
in question was discounted for the Planters! Bank,
by the Bank of the United States, anl after deducting, for the time the note was to run, a sum
equal to the rate of 6 per cent. per annum, the
residue was carried to the cr*edit of the Planters'
Bank, which it seems was then indebted to the
Bank of the United States in a large sum of
money.- It is immaterial to the decision of the.
point now under consideration, whether the discount was for this purpose or not, for whether the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

853

proceeds were. to be paid over, or caried to the 1823.
general credit of the party, or applied to the pay- Fleckner
ment of a pre-existing debt the transaction was
V.
still in substance a discount, 'and, therefore, not u Bs .
within the prohibitions of the 9th rule of the uharter; The District Judge, therefore, who sat at
the trial, was perfectly',borrect in refusing to charge
the jury as the counsel for Fleckner requested,
"that the receiving the 'transfer of the said promissoiy note, and the payment of the adiount in
account, as stated in the eviaence, was a dealing
ix"notes, and such dealing was contrary to the
provisions of the act incorporating the said bank."
And he was -equally correct in charging the jury.,
"that the acceptance of an endorsed note, in payment of a debt due, is not a trading in things pro.ihied by the act." And this was the whole of
his charge on this point brought up by the exceptions.

-

It may be added upon this point, that even if
the bank had violated the rule above stated, by
this particular transaction, it is not easy to perceive how that objection could be available in favour of Fleckner. The act has not-pronounced
that such a violation makes the transaction or contract ipso facto void; but has punished it by a
specific penalty of treble the value. It would
therefore remain to be shown bow, if the bank
had a general right to discount notes, a contract
not made void by the act itself, could, on this account, be avoided by a party to the original contract, who was not a party to the subsequent
transfer.
VO.

VW.

354
1823.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The next point arising on the record is, whether
It
Fleckner the discount taken in this case was usurious.
v.
is not pretended, that interest was deducted for a
U. S. Bank. greater. length of time than the note had to run,
Itisnot usu- or for fnore than at the rate of six, per cent. per
ry for the bank
The sole
to deduct the annum on the sum due by the note.
interest from b
io
em
the amotntof ojecuon is, the dduction of the interest from the
a note, at tbe- amount of the note at the time it was discounted;
time of its
being disoeun- and this, it is said, gives the bank at the rate of
more than six per cent. upon the sum actually carried to the credit of the Planters' Bank. If a
transaction of this sort is to be deemed usurious,
the same principle must apply with equal force to
bank discounts generally, for the practice is believed to be universal; and, probably, few, if any,
charters, contain an express provision, authorizing,
iu terms, the deduction of the interest in advance upon making loans or discounts. It has
always been supposed, that an authority to discount, or make discounts, did, from the very force
of the terms, necessarily include an authority to
take the interest in advance. And this is not only
the settled opinion among professional and commercial men, but stands approved by the soundest
principles of legal construction. Indeed, we do
not know in what other sense the word discount
is to be interpreted. Even in England, where no
statute authorizes bankers to make discounts, it
has been solemnly adjudged, that the taking of
interest in advance by bankers, upon loans, in the
ordinary course of business, is not usurious.
If, indeed, the law were otherwise, it would not
follow, that the transfer to the bank of the present

OF THE UNITED STATES.

355

note would be void, so that the maker of the 1823.
note could set it up in his defence. The statutes Fleckner
of usury of the States, as well as of England,
V.
Bank.
S.
U.
conusurious
that
contain an express provision,
tracts shall be utterly void; and without such an
enactment, the contract would be valid, at least
in respect to persons who were strangers to the
usury. The taking of interest by the bank beyond the sum authorized by the charter, would,
doubtless, be a violation of its charter, for which
a remedy might be applied by the government;
but as the act of Congress does not declare, that
it shall avoid the contract, it is not perceived how
the original defendant could avail himself of this
ground to defeat a recovery. The opinion of the
District Judge, that the discount taken in this case
was not usuious, and would not defeat the right
of recovery of the plaintifh, was, therefore, unexceptionable in point of law.
The next point is, whether the endorsement of byEndorsmet
the cashier
the. note, by the cashier of the Planters' Bank,•Banksurneent
oftbeote&
was sufficient to transfer the property to the ori-to t
r the
ginal plaintifl.
The evidence on this point was, f° .
that the Board of Directors of the Planters' Bank,
on the 21st of October, 1818, passed a resolution,
" tliat the president and cashier be authorized to
adopt the most effectual measures to liquidate, the
soonest possible, the balance due to the office of
discount and deposit in this city, [New-Orleans,]
as well as all others presently -due, and which
may in the future become due to any banks of the
city." The endorsement was made to the Bank
of the United States on the 5th of September,

$55f$

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819; and before the commencement of this suit,
viz.
on the 27th of June, 1820, the Board of DiFleckner
rectors of the Planters' Bank passed a resolution,
v.
U. S. Bank. to which the corporate seal was annexed, declaring, that the two notes of the defendant (of which
the present note was one) "were endorsed by
the late cashier of the Planters' Bank; by authority of the president and directors, and delivered
to the office of discount and deposit of the Bank
of the United States, and the amount passed to
the credit of the Planters' Bank, and that the
said board of directors do hereby ratify and confirm said act of their .said cashier, as the act of
the President, Directors and Company of the
The act incorporating the
Planters' Bank."
Planters' Bank has been examined by the Court;
and as to the appointment of the cashier, and the
.authority of the board of directors, it does not
'differ materially from acts incorporating other
banks.
It authorizes the president and directors to
appoint a cashier, and other officers of the bank,
and" gives the president and directors, or a majority of them, " full power and authority to make
all such rules and regulations, for the government
of the affairs, and conducting the business of the
said bank, as shall not be contrary to this act of
incorporation."m It contains no regulations as to
the duties of the cashier, nor any express authority for the corporation to make by-laws. The
whole business of the bank is confided entirely to
1823.

a. Act of 15th April, 1811.

1 Martin's Dig. 568. et seq.

OF THE UNTED STATES.

the directors; and of course with them it would 1823.
rest to fix the duties of the cashier, or other officers. Fleckner
Y.
Whether they have in fact made aun regulations
Bar&
S.
U.
of
acts
the
but
appear;
not
does
subject,
this
on
the cashier, done in the ordinary course of the
business actually confided to such an officer, may
well be deemed prima face evidence, that they
fell within the scope of his duty.
The -first objection urged against this evidence
is, that the corporation could not authorize any
act to be done by an agent, by a mere vote of the
directors, but only by an appointment under its
corporate seal. And the ancient doctrine of the
common law, that a corporation can only act
through the instrumentality of its common seal,
has been relied upon for this purpose. Whatever
may be the original correctness of this doctrine,
as applied to corporations existing by the common
law, in r~spect even to which it has been certainly
broken in upon in modern tiries, it has no application to corporations created by statute, .whose
charters contemplate the business of the corporation to be transacted exclusively by a special body
or board of directors. And the acts of such body
or board, evidenced by a written vote, are as completely binding upon the corporation, and as complete authority to their agents, as the most solemn
acts done under the corporate seal. In respect to
banks, from the very nature of their operations in
discounting notes, in receiving deposits, in paying
checks, and other ordinary and daily contracts, it
would be impracticable to affix the corporate seal
as a confirmation of each individual act. And if

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

a general authority for such purposes, under the
corporate seal, would be binding upon the corpov.
ration, because it is the mode .prescribed by the
V. s. Bank. common law, fnust not the like authority, exercised
by agents appointed in the mode prescribed by
the charter, and to whom it is exclusively given
by the charter, be of as high and solemn a nature
to bind the corporation ? To suppose otherwise,
is to suppose, that the common law is superior to
the legislative authority; and that the Legislature
cannot dispense with forms, or confer authorities,
which the common law attaches to general corporations. Where corporations have no specific
mode of acting prescribed, the common law mode
of acting may be properly inferred; but every
corporation created by statute, may act as the statute prescribes, and the common law cannot control by implication that which the Legislature has
expressly sanctioned. Indeed, this very point has
been repeatedly under- the consideration of this
Court; and in the case of The Bank of Columbia v. Patterson,(7 Cranch's Rep. 299.) and the
Mechanics' Bank of Alexandria v. The Bank
of Columbia, (5 Wheat. Rep. 326.) principles
were established which settle the point, that the
corporation may be bound by contracts nbt authorized or executed under its corporate seal, and
by contracts made in the ordinary discharge of the
official duty of its agents and officers. We have
no doubt, therefore, upon the principles of the
common law, that a vote of the Board of Directors of the Planters' Bank, was as full authority
1823.
.v
nleckher

OF THE UNITED STATES.

559

for any act of this nature, to bind the corporation, 1823.
as if it had passed under the common seal.
leckne
V.
But it is to be recollected, that the rights and
authorities, and mode of transacting business, of U.S.Bank.
the Planters' Bank, depend, not upon the common law, but upon the charter of incorporation,
and, where that is silent, upon the principles of interpretation, and doctrines of the civil law, which
has been adopted in Louisiana. The civil code of
that State declares, that as corporations canpot
personally transact all that they have a right legally to do, wherefore it becomes necessary for
every corporation to appoint some of their members, to whom they may intrust the direction
and care of their affairs, under the name of mayor,
president, syndics, directors, or others, according to the statutes and qualities of such corporations: it further declares, that the attorneys in
fact, or officers thus appointed, have their respective duties pointed out by their nomination,
and exercise thenm according to the general regulations and particular statutes of the corporation:
that these officers, by contracting, bind the communities to which they belong, in such things as
do not exceed the limits of the administration
which is intrusted to them: and that if the powers
of such officers have not been expressly fixed, they
are regulated in the same manner as those of other
mandatories.a This is all that is contained upon
the subject now under consideration in the title of
the. code professing to treat of corporations, and
a Civil Code Louisa. tit. 10. ch. 2. art. 13. and 14.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182,3.
'~-.Fleekner

V.

their rights, powers, and privileges.

There is

nothing which, in the slightest degree, points to
the necessity of using a corporate seal in appoint-

Y.S.Bank. wing

agents, or authorizing corporate acts; and the
fair inference deducible from the silence of the
code is, that it does not contemplate any such forreality as essential to the validity of any official
acts done by the officems of the corporation ; and
gives such acts a binding authority if evidenced
by a vote. We may, then, dismiss this point, as
to the necessity of the corporate seal, and proceed
to consider another objection stated by the counsel for the original defendant. It is, that the
cashier had no authority to make this transfer ;
that the resolution of the 21st of October, 1818,
did not confer it originally, and that the subse'quent ratification, by the resolution of the 27th
of June, 1820, does not give any validity to an
ineffectual and unauthorized transfer.

-

We are

very much inclined to think that the endorsement
of notes, like the present, for the use of the bank,
falls within the ordinary duties and rights belonging to the cashier of the bank, at least if his
office be like that of similar institutions, and his
rights and duties are not otherwise restiicted.
The cashier is usually intrusted with all the funds
of the bank, in cash, notes, bills, &c. to be used,
from time to time, for the ordinary and extraordinary exigencies of the bank. He receives directly,
or through the subordinate officers, all moneys
and notes. He delivers up all discounted notes,
and other property, when payments have been
duly made. He draws checks, from time to time,

OF TifE UNITED STATES.

for.moneys, wherever the bank has deposits. In 1823.
short, he is considered the executive officer, through
whom, and by whom, the whole moneyed operations
V.
of the bank in paying or receiving debts,- or dis- U.S. Bunk
charging or transferring securities, are to be conducted. It does not seem too much, then, to infer,
in the absence of all positive restrictions, that it
is his duty as well to apply the negotiable. fids
as the moneyed capital of the bank, to discharge
its debts and obligations. And under these circumstances, the provision of the civil code, already
cited, may be justly applied, that where his powers are not otherwise fixed, they are to be regulated as other mandatories, or rather, as other agents
and factors. In point of practice, it is understood, and was so stated by one of the learned
counsel, whose knowledge and experience upon
this subject entitle his statement to the highest
credit, that these duties &re ordinarily performed
by the cashiers of banks. And general convenience and policy would dictate this arrangement
as most salutary to the" interests of the banks.
And it may be added, that the very act done by
the cashier, in this case, with the approbation -of
the bank, affords some presumption that it was
not a usurped authority.
But waiving this consideration, let us attend to
the actual features of this case upon the evidence.
It is true, that the resolution of the 21st of October, does not dire fly, and in terms, authorizd this
transfer. It ig nota resolution conferring a jointauthority to the president and cashier, to endorse
any note for the bank. It simply requires them to
YoL7 YIII.

A6

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182.
take measures to liquidate the balance due to the
x-Flackner original plaintiffs, and other banks. It is merely
v.
directory to them, and leaves them to decide as to

V.S.

, the time, the mode, and the means.

As they

were not restricted in these respects, they had a
resulting right to employ any of the funds of the
bank for this purpose, and the negotiable paper of
the bank was equally within the scope of the
authority as the cash funds, if they should deem
it proper to use them. They were at liberty to raise
money for this purpose, from the general funds, in
any way which the ordinary course of business
would justify, and which they should deem the
most effectual measures. They might, therefore,
agree that the cashier should endorse the note in
question, and should procure it to be discounted
at the Bank of the United States, and the proceods to be carried to their credit. The presumption that this was an exercise of authority sanctioned by the president, as well as contemplated
by the directors, is almost irresistibly proved by
the fact, that the Planters' Bank has never complained of, but ratified and approved the whole
transaction. Some criticism has been employed
on the meaning of the word "liquidate," in the
resolution above stated. It is said to mean, not a
payment, but an ascertainment of the debts of the
bank. We think otherwise. Its ordinary sense,
as given by lexicographers, is to clear away, to
lessen debts. And in common parlance, espe-'
cially among merchants, to liquidate a balance,
means, to pay it; and this, we are satisfied, was
the sense in which the words were used in this re-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

solution; and, consequently, that the approprip- 1SM
tion of this note to the payment of the debt, was
within the scope of'the authority given to the prov.
U.S.B.uk.
sident and cashier.
But.if this were, susceptible of doubt, wre think
that the subsequent resolution of the directors, of
the 27th of June, 1820,. is conclusive. That resolution is not a mere ratification of the transfer,
but declares that the endorsement was made by
the cashier, on the 4th of September, 1'819, by
authority of -he president and diredtors. ft is
therefore a direct and positive acknowledgmeut of'
its original validity, binding on the bank; and if
so, it is binding upon all other persons who have
not an aaverse interest. But if it .were only
a ratification, it would be equally decisive. No
maxim is better kttl~d in reason and law, than
the maxint omnis ratihabitio retrotrahitur,-6
mai4idaprior'equiparatur;at all events, where
it does not-prejudice the rights of strangers. And
the ciyil thw. does not, it is believed, differ from
the. common law on this -subject."
We think, then, -that the transfer in this case
was made upon sufficient authority; and that,
therefore, -the opinion. of the District Judge, affirming the.same doctrine, was perfectly correct.
The next point made by the counsel for the original defendant, is, that the writing of the words
" 2W vzarietu&' upon the note, restricted its negotiability. It appeared in evidence, that the note
in question was given as. a part consideration for
a See Civil Code of Louisiaza, tit. 3. dr. 6.

.

4.

CASES IN ThE SUPREME COURT

1823. the purchase money.of a plantation and slaves,
purchased by Fleckner of Nelder. The Instrui.
ment of conveyance was.drawn, executed, and
.SBank recorded, befoxe a notary public, according to the

"aveW
Ffeckner

usage in countries governed by the civil law. The
notary, upon the giving of this and other notes,
f~r, the :purchase money, by Fleckner, wrote on
each-note the words in question. There is not
the slightest evidence that, by the law or custom
of Louisiaila, the introduction of these words
affects the negotiability of these notes; and, without.proof of such law or usage, this Court certainly
cannot infer the existence of such an extraordinary and inconvenient doctrine. Upon the face
of. the transaction, we should suppose that the
words were written merely for the purpose of ascertaining the identity of the notes; and the statement at the bar, that this is the explanation given
by a very learned notary, confirms this supposition. The opinion of the District Judge upon
this point also, asserting that the words did not
create any restriction upon the negotiability of the
note, is, as far as we have. any knowledge, a true
exposition of the law.
It is unnecessary to pursue this subject farther. The judgment of the Court below is
affirmed, with interest and costs.
JUDGmrNrT. This cause came on to be heard on

the transcript of the record of the District Court
of the United States for the District of Louisiana,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is ADJUDGED wid ORDERED, that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

judgment of the said Distritt Court for the District of Lousiana, in this case, be, and the same
is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at
the rate of eight per centum per annum, including interest on the amount of the judgment
of the said District Court.

[CHA~cZUY.

LoCAL LAW.]

PHILIP NORBORNE NICHOLAS, Attorney General of
Virginia, v. RICHARD C. ANDERSON, Surveyor,
&c.
Under the act of Assembly of Virginia, of October, 1788, for the better locating and surveying the lands given to the officers and soldiers on Continental and State establishments, the State of Virginia has no right to call upon the person who was appointed ono
of the principal surveyors, to account for the fees received by him,
of one dollar for every hundred acres, on delivering the warrants,
towards raising a fund for the purpose of supporting all contingent
expenses- the bill filed by the Attorney General of the State, to
compel an account, not sufficiently averring the want'of any prope3
private parties in esse to claim it.
qunr, Whetber, in sucl a case, the assignees of the warrants, or a
part of them, suing in behalf of the whole, could maintain a
suit in equity for an account ?

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Kentucky.
This was a bill in equity, filed by, and in the name
of the Attorney General of Virginia, under the
authority of a special act of the Legislature of
that State, passed on the 15th of February, 1813.

365
1823.
Nicolas

V.
Anders.

