CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Childress
V.

Emory.

[PRACTICE.

PLEADING.

JURISDICTION.]

ANDERSON CHILDRESS, Executor of JOEL CHILDRESS,

Plaintiff in Error,
V.

EMoRY and M'CLEUR, Executors of JOHN G. Cosurviving partner of WILLIAM COCHRAN
& COMEGYS, Defendants in Error.
MEGYS,

The Courts of the United States have jurisdiction of suits by or
against executors and administrators, if they are citizens of different States, &c. although their testators or intestates might not
have been entitled to sue, or liable to be sued in those Courts.
It is, in general, not necessary, in deriving title to a bill or note,
through the endorsement of a partne.'ship firm, or from the surviving partner, through the act of the law, to state particularly the
names of the persons composing the firm.
A declaration, averring that " J. C., by Ms agent, A. C., made" he
note, &c. is good.
A general profert of letters testamentary, is sufficient, and if the dcfendant would object totbeir insufficiency, he must crave oyer: or,
if it be alleged that the plaintiffs are not executors, the objection
must be taken by plea in abatement.
Debt, against an executor, should be in the detine! only, unless he
has made himself personally responsible, as by a devastavit.
An action of debt lies, upon a promissory note, against executors.
The wager of law, if it ever had a legal existence in the United
States, is now completely abolished.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Tennessee.
The defendants in error, citizens of the State of
Maryland, and executors of John G. Comegys,
the surving partner of the late firm of "William
Cochran & Comegys," brought an action of debt
in the dtinet, on a promissory note, executed by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

643

the said Anderson Childress, as the agent of said 182$.
Joel Childress; both of whom were citizens of
v.
the State of Tennessee. The declaration stated
.
the plaintiffs in said suit, (now defendants in error,)
to be the executors of the last ,willand testament
of John G. Comegys, deceased, who was the surviving partner of the late firm of William Cochran & Comegys; that on the first of May, 1817,
the said Joel Childress, by his agent, A. Childress,
made his promissory note to the firm of William
Cochran & Comegys, and thereby promised to
pay to William Cochran & Comegys, or order,
the sum of 1897 dollars and 28 cents, fir value
received. That the said Joel, in his lifetine, did
not pay the said firm of William Cochran &
Comegys, nor did he pay the said John G. Comegys, surviving partner of said late firm of William Cochran & Comegys, the said sum of money,
or any part thereof, nor has he paid the same,
or any part thereof to the said plaintifig, executors
ps aforesaid, nor hath the said Anderson Childress's executors as aforesaid, paid the said sum,
or any part thereof, to. the late firm of William
Cochran & Comegys, nor to John G. Comegys,
surviving partner of the said firm, nor hath he
paid the said sum, or any part thereof, unto the
said' plaintiffs, executors aforesaid, but so to do
hath wholly refused, and still doth, to the damage
of said plaintiffs 500 dollars; and, therefore, they
sue, and they bring here into Court, the letters
testamentary, by which it 'will appear they are
qualified, &c.
To this declaration, the defendant, now plaintiff

644

1823.
\

%
Childress

V.
Emory.

MarcA 8th.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in error, demurred, and assigned for demurrer the
following causes:

1st. That said declaration alleges, that said
note was made to a late firm of William Cochran
& Comegys, and that the plaintiffs are executors
of the surviving partner of that firm; but whom
said partner survived, or who comprised that firm,
does not appear.
2d. That an action of debt- cannot be maintained against the defendant, (now plaintiff in
error,) as executor upon a promissory note.
3d. That it is not alleged that said pretended
promisi ory note was signed by said Joel Childress,
or the defendant.
4th. That the declaration omits to state any
damages.
5th. There is no .sufficient profert of any letters
testamentary, to show the right of said plaintiffs
to maintain this suit.
Joinder in demurrer. After argument, the Court
overruled all the said causes of demurrer; and
gave judgment, that the plaintiffs do recover the
sum of 1897 dollars and 28 cents, debt, together
with 360 dollars and 47 cents, for their damages,
sustained by reason of the detention thereof, as
also their costs, to be levied of the goods and
chattels of Joel Childress, deceased, in the possession of said Anderson Childress; and on default
thereof, the costs to be levied of the proper goods
of said defendant.
Mr. Webster, for the plaintiff in error, argued,
I. That the action was misconceived, debt not

OF THE UNITED STATES.

645

being an appropriate remedy against an executor 1823.
or administrator, on a simple contract. He conv.
ceived it unnecessary to inquire into the origin of
Emory.
it
as
it,
sustained
which
principle
the
or
this rule,
rested on the clearest authorities of the English
law, and had become an established doctrine,
from which this Court would not be inclined to
depart; as it was of more consequence that the
law should be certain and fixed, than that plaintiffs should be allowed a choice of remedies. Because the reason, on which a remedy may have
been originally given or refused by the law, may
have ceased, it does not, therefore, follow, that
the established rules of practice and pleading are
to be altered. The wager of law has ceased, but
many rules of practice and pleading, founded
upon it, have survived, and have become rules of
property, which cannot be now safely disturbed.
The statute of limitations may or m-iy not apply,
according to the form of the action, and the party
has a right to the benefit of the distinction. On
the English law it is clear that debt cannot be
maintained in this case, as the testator might have
waged his law, which none can do who defend in
a representative character; hence it is, that in the
case of simple contracts, debt has been superseded
by the action of assumpsit, in which, as the testator could not have waged his law, his executor is
not deprived of any defence which might have
been used by the testator.4
a Barry v. Robinson, 1 New. Rep. 294.
!3. 1o7.

1 Chily's Plead. 84.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823,
V.
moury.

2. The next cause of demurrer, in this case, is
the want of certainty in the declaration, which
states the note to have been made to a late firm
of " William Cochran 4 Comegys," and that
the plaintiffs are executors of the surviving partner of that firm; but of whom that firm was composed, qr whom the said partner survived, do not
appear. It cannot be inferred that the firm of
William Cochran & Comegys was composed of
William Cochran and John G. Comegys, nor that
the latter survived the former; and is the Comegys
alluded to in the firm, and in the note in controversy. These. are matters which should have been
stated with sufficient certainty, and not have been
left to mere conjecture.a
3. This declaration is defective, also, in not
stating that the note was either signed by Joel
Childress, or by Anderson Childress, or by him
as the lawfully authorized agent of Joel.
4. There is no sufficient profert of any letters
testamentary, evincing the right of the defendants
in error to maintain this suit. The authority
whence they emanated does not appear. An executor must show by whom his letters were granted;
and here it does not appear whether they were
granted in Maryland, or in the State of Tennegsee.

b

5. The declaration states the defendants in
error to be citizens of the State of Maryland, and
the plaintiff in error to be a citizen of the State
a 1 Chitt' Plead.236. 256. 3 Caines' Rep. 170.
b 3 Bac. Ar. 94.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

647

of Tennessee; but it is not stated that the testa- 1823.
tors of either party were citizens of different Childress
V.
States: non constat, but they were all citizens of
a
the State of Tennessee. The case, therefore, Emory.
may be considered as falling within the provisions
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
Mr. D. Hoffman, contra, argued, that the
action of debt was an appropriate remedy on a
promissory note, against the personal representatives of the maker or endorser of such note. The
reason assigned in England for denying this remedy against an executor or administrator, does
not apply even in that country to the case of a
promissory note, which is not that species of simple contract to which the books allude, when
speaking of the trial by wager of law.
The question is altogether new, even in that
country whence we are to derive our law on this
obsolete subject ; and has never received a judicial discussion or determination in this country.
Some research, therefore, into this ancient subject, will be essential to its due determination. It
is said, that debt will not lie against an executor,
on the simple contract debt of his testator ; and,
in England, this, as a general proposition, is undoubtedly true. Still, however, it can, with no
propriety, be compared to a 'wle of property,
which, though now, in many instances, arbitrary
and unmeaning, must be maintained, as long
possessions, valuable estates, and the firmest titles
a 4 Cranch's Rep. 46. 6 Cranch, 332.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

may be dependent on it. But, whether a creditor
by simple contract resorts to the one remedy or
the other, is of no consequence to any one but
Emery. himself. This election of remedy, then, will not
be denied, unless for an adequate reason. This
Court is under no necessity to sanction an unmpaning dictum of English law, at all times absurd, and at no period either approved by the
lawyers of the times, or settled on any fixed principle. No reason has ever been assigned for exempting executors from responsibility on this remedy, except-the one, that as none, who defend
jure 'eprasentationis,can wage their law, and as
the testator, in debt on simple contract, had this
privilege, the executor shall not be thus sued.
But it will be endeavoured to be shown, that this
was originally a gross perversion of reason; that
the rule should have been either the reverse, or
that, in order to preserve any thing like consistency in the law, executors and administrators
ought never to have been responsible, in any form
of action, for the simple contracts of those whom
they represent.
The inquiry then will be, (1) Whether the testator was ever permitted, evei in England, to
wage his law, in debt on a promissory note.
.(2) If he were allowed, whether this antiquated
doctrine of the common law is proper to be
adopted as a part of our jurisprudence. (3) Whether in law, or in practice, it ever has been recognised, or used, in the State of Tennessee, or elsewhere in this country.
1. On examining the history and progress of

1823.
-Childres
.

649

OF THE UNITED STATES.

this singular species of trial, it will be found to

182S.

have been uniformly applied to the evidence of
the demand, and was in no case an incident to the
nature of the action or remedy. Whenever the
debt or demand was sufficiently evidenced, whenever it was notorious in its nature, or defined in its
extent; or, finally, whenever it did not rest merely
in verbis, there wager of law did not obtain. We
may, then, inquire,first, in what cases wager of
law was not allowed by the common law; and,
secondly, in what description of cases it was permitted; and, from an examination of" the reasons
which sustained, or repudiated wager of law in
these cases, we shall find that, in principle, it
neier could haye been applied to the case of a
promissory note, and that, in fact, it never has
been so applied.
First, then, wager of law was not allowed hi
the following cases: (1) In an action of debt on
any specialty; for here, as Plowden observes, a
debt is contracted by three distinct acts of solemn
consent, signing, sealing, and delivery of the instrument; each act strengthens the evidence of
consideration, and adds force and efficacy to the
demand. It would not be proper, therefore, that
a mere act in pais, or the oath of the party, should
render that inoperative which has been guarded by
so many acts of deliberation. The maxim in such
case being, unumquod que dissolvitur eo modo
quo colligatur. (2) In debt on any record, there
can be no wager of law, for similar reasons. The
debt has become notorious and certain: the
record brought it into existence, and, at law, the

O

VOL. VIII.

82

GV.X*

F..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
C hildress

V.
Emory.

record should ordinarily declare its annihilation.
(3) In an action of debt for rent, even on a parol
lease, the defendant is not permitted to wage his
law, because, as it is said, the demand savours of
the realty, which, in fact, means, that the claim
arises from the defendant's perception of the profits of the land ; that his occupation is notorious,
his entry into the land was, perhaps, coram paribus curit, and if not, that the notoriety of his occupation should, on the principle I have stated,
oust the wager of law. (4) So, in an action of
account, where the receipts have been by the
hands of a third person, and not from the plaintiff
himself, wager of law will not lie; and the reason
assigned is, that this third person may well be supposed competent to prove the receipts, and this
supposition, per se, is sufficient to exclude the
wager of law. (5) In debt by a gaoler against
his prisoner, or by an innkeeper against his guest,
for board, &e. the defendant cannot resort to this
mode of trial; and the principle which excludes
it in these cases, is essentially the same, viz. the
presumed notoriety of the demand. Prisons and
inns are qutasi publici juris; the prisoner and
the guest must be received, and their reception is
not a matter of privacy, but is presumed to be
provable. Aliter, in the case of a victualler,who
sues for matters furnished to his customers; his
claim may be defeated by the defendant's oath."
(6) Wager of law is not permitted in debt for any
a Pijchon's case, 9 Co. Rep. 87 b.

12 Mod. 684.

City of London v. Wood,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

penalty given by statute, for this is a matter in 1823.
consiirilicasu with debts by specialty or record. Chilrm
(7) Nor was it allowed against an account settled
v.
by auditors, for here the debt becomes suscepti- Emory.
ble of proof, is rendered certain, and though still
a simple contract debt, yet, as it does not rest in
verbis merely, it shall not be left to the conscience
only of the defendant. (8) Where the claim or
demand was in any degree connected with the
realty, wager of law would not lie ; for the pares
curie were supposed to be cognizant of such
matters. Hence, for example, where the plaintiff
leased a room to the defendant, and then took
him and his wife to board; in debt, for the boarding, it was held, that even this accidental connexion
of the matter with the realty, was sufficient to
rescue it from the operation of the wager of law.0
(9) So, in debt for wages due for serving under
the statute of labourers ; as the service is compulsory and notorious, the defendant cannot wage his
law. (10) Likewise, in debt by an attorney for his
fees, though there be no writing, yet, as he is an
officer of the Court, his demand cannot be defeated by wager of law.' (11) Wager of law is
never permitted in the case of contempt, trespass,
or deceit, for these, per se, charge the defendant
with immoral conduct, which renders his oath suspicious." (12) Nor will it lie in a quo minus, for
reasons similar to those already suggested."
a 28 Henry YI. 4. 9 Edvard IV. i.
b 39 Henry VI. pL 34.
c Co. Litt. 295 a.
d Slade's case. 4 Co. Rep. 95 b.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Ch1dress

'tion,

V.

Eiory.

(13) Nor against any claim founded on prescripfor this is notorious, and susceptible of

proof.4

(14) Lastly; in an action of debt by a

merchant stranger, on any species of simple con-

tract, 'the defendant was not permitted to wage
his law. Even in those early times, the Courts
were strongly disposed to rescue commercial contracts and dealin'gs from this species of trial, as
may be seen by the intended operation of the
statute de mercatoribus, and particularly in the
case of foreign creditors, who, it was presumed,
could not so.easily obtain the requisite evidence of
their claims as resident merchants ; and this may
be seen in Godfrey and Dixon's case.
From the cases enumerated, it appears, that
wherever the plaintiff's demand is certain, and is
so evidenced as to exclude the idea of a-mere secret or verbal contract between the parties, there
the defendant could neither deny the contract, nor
maintain its discharge by his oath and that of his
compurgators.
If we examine the cases in which the defendant
has been allowed this mode of trial, we shall find
the* same principle strongly manifested. The
books furnish us with only six classes of cases in
which a defendant is permitted to wage his law.
(1) In debt, on simple contract; by which we are
not to understand, (as I shall presently show,)
every species of simple contract, but such only
which, as the authorities express themselves, "are
2 Ventr. 261.

1 .od. 121.

b Palmer'&Rep. 14. Fleta, 136.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

653

dependent on the slippery memory of man, or the 1823.
uncertainty of verbal• agreements." (2) In debt Ch~idrens
V.
on an award, tinder a pal'ol submission. It has,
Emory.
not,
ought
law
of
wager
that
urged,
indeed, been
on principle, to be permitted in such a case, as
the action is grounded on a notorious transaction,
and by the interposition of third persons. But it
was held, that the award is not the ground of action, but the submission, which may be private.a
(3) In an action of account against a receiver, on
receipts from the plaintiff himself, the defendant
may wage his law, for here the action itself shows
that the matter is private between the parties;
and this differs from the case already adverted to,
where the receipts were by the hands of third
persons. (4) In detinue, where the matter is no
way connected with the realty, the defendant may
wage his law. Here the gist of the action is the
detainer. But in detinue for a charter of feoffment, wager of law will not lie, as it concerns
the freehold; every thing regarding which, is presumed to be matter of notoriety.' (5) In debt for
an. amerciament, in a Court not of record, it is
said by some, that the defendant may wage his
law. But,Lan enlightened Baron of the Exchequer says, that if this be law, it must be on the
ground of the insignificancy of the debt, which
seldom exceeds 40 shillings, and which can -be
safely left to the consciences of men, and ought not
a Co. Litt. 295. 12 Mod. 681.
b Cro. Fliz. 790. 2 Rolls. Abr. 108. Year Book, 14 Henr. VI.
.P. 1.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Chiudrew

T.

tW trouble the cauntry in the trial thereof.

Holt,
Ch.J., however, is decidedly of opinion, that the
defendant cannot wage his law. in this case: for,

E"Y' says he, " the plaintiff bath now sufficient proof
to make out his cause; it bath ceased to be a
matter of secrecy, and hence cannot be defeated
by the oath of the defendant," (6) and lastly; In
real actions, the defendant may wage his law of
non-summons, this being often in secret, and not
vouched by any writing.'
From the cases enumerated, of the allowance
or denial of this mode of trial, it is manifest that
it has only been tolerated in a few special cases;
and these, (to use the language of Holt,) "are all
grounded on a feeble foundation, or are of small
consideration in the law." They abundantly prove,
that wager of law originated in the " unstable
evidence of the demand," in the " feebleness and
exility of the plaintiff's cause of action," and that
it had no connexion whatever with the particular
nature of the remedy by which the demand was
sought to be enforced.
My position then is, that wager of, law, in its
origin,, principle, and practice, never did apply
to written, though unsealed evidences of debt;
and, a multo fortiori, not to promissory notes.
It is conceded, however, that a different opinion
has been entertained, and that it has been' supposed that the principle which regulates the admission or rejection of wager of law, is the prea 12 Mod.681.
b Br. Ley. Gager.pl. 27. 57. 103.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sence or -absence of a seal, or something equivalent thereto; and that all contracts, not of record,

655
1823.
'--'-'

Childrens

V
or not under seal, are parol or simple contracts,
in reference to this mode of trial. That this Emory.
opinion is erroneous, b-s already been partly
shown; and, that it is ahog ither unsound, I shall
now endeavour further to illustrate.
As to the origin of this " tempter to corrupt
perjury," Lord Coke confidently refers it to the
law of God, which permitted the bailee of an ox,
or other cattle, to discharge himself, by his own
oath, from all responsibility for the death or loss
of the animal. Others have regarded it as a mistaken application, by the early ecclesiastics of
England, of the decisory oath of the civilians;
and some have supposed that it was introduced by
them with the oath ex officio, so often used in
cases of ecclesiastical cognizance. But whether
it be the offspring of Saxon rudeness, or finds its
exemplar in the more refined code of imperial
Rome, is not very material: certain it is, that the
simple contracts alluded to in the books, mean
nothing more than such an unsustained or unevidenced contract, as ought, in conscience, to be
outweighed by the oath of the party sought to be
charged. In the first Edward's reign, we find,
that if a creditor sued on a verbal demand, he
was required to make rationabilemmonstrationen
that a debt existed. For this purpose he produced
his secta; the defendant might then vadiare
legem, that is, wage his law against the plaintiff's
secta. We find, also, that no secta was ever required where the plaintiff could produce any iori-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
,,
Chilrem
V.
For.

ting; and, as the wager of law was for the purpose of disproving the testimony of the secta,
according, to the then prevailing maxim, lex vincit

sectam, it seems to follow, that no wager of law

was ever allowed whe'e 'he plainti.f's claim was
evidenced by any writing. The waging of law,
therefore, may be considered as springing from
the secta, and was a proof to silence the presumption raised by this preliminary evidence, adduced
in support of mere verbal contracts." The secta,
and the defendant's oath, and compurgators, appear to have been requisite only " in respect of
the weakness and inconsiderableness of the plaintiff's eyidence of debt." This view of the subject is strongly'shown in the well known case on
this antiquated learning, The City of London v,
Wood.b In that case, Holt, Ch. J., remarks, that
wager of law is allowable, not because the debt
may be discharged, or paid in private,but because
the ground of action is itself secret; for, that if
the privacy of payment, or the possibility thereof,
were the occasion of wager of law, that might
be a reason, in all cases where it is admitted, that
this trial will not be allowed. The theory of
this subject clearly evinces, that wager of law
could at no time have been applicable to the species of simple contract now under consideration.
Promissory notes surely are entitled to as much
respect as a stated account by auditors, against
which, we have seen, there could be no wager of
a Bract. 409. Fleta, 136. 138.
b 12 Mod. 670. 680. 682.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

law; and they have all that certainty, notoriety,
and evidence in their nature, so often alluded to,
and which constitute the only basis on which the
admission or rejection of this summary proceeding
can rest.
If we for a moment inquire into the nature of
this species of simple contract, we cannot fail to
perceive, that it has no one feature in common
with those in which the defendant has been permitted to wage his law. Notes and bills are contracts suz generis ; they are instruments of a peculiar character, neither specialties, nor parol
contracts. They cannot be regarded as mere
parol, or simple contracts, neither before, nor since
the statute 3 and 4 Anne, c. 9., and, consequently,
ought not to be embraced within the principle
which sustains the wager of law, allowing this to
be even broader than has been stated. For, first,
even prior to the statute of Anne, the plaintiff need
not have averred nor proved any consideration:
the mere statement of the promise, and the defendant's liability, constituted a sufficient prima,
facie evidence of debt. Even between the original parties they imported a consideration; and
the onus probandi of the absence, or failure of
consideration, lies on the defendant.a

The doctrine, then, of Rann v. Hughes,b which
qualified the obiter opinion of Mr. Justice Wilmot,
in Pillans v. Van M41eirop, is itself too broad;
a2LordRaym. 1481. Chitty. Bilk,7. 12.87. 452. 1 Chittyu
Pead. 295. 2 Phi?. Evid. 6. 10. 3 Maue 4' Seiw. 352.
5 Cranch, 332. 5
ieat. Rep. 277. 9 Johms. Rep. 217.

b 7 T. R. 350.
VOL. V11f.

83

657

1823.
Childre

V.
Emory,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Childress

V.
Emery.

for, though the common law has not adopted the
well known distinction of the civilians, between
contracts ex literis and ex verbis, yet notes and
bills are exceptions, firmly ingrafted on the general rule. Secondly. If, then, these instruments, at
all times, imported a prima facie consideration,
the statute' has clothed them with an additional
property. They are no longer mere thoses in
'action; their simple negotiability, though they
remain in the hands of the original parties, imparts
to them a further dignity, which distinguishes
them from all other simple contracts; they are
originally evidences of debt, and, after endorsement, the statute raises an irresistible presumption in favour of honest holders, a presumptio
juris et de jure.
May we not, then, assert, with confidence, that
these instruments, which have sprung into life
and utility long after the wager of law had gone
,into almost desuetude, cannot be those "secret
contracts, whose feebleness and exility" should
subject them to avoidance by the defendant's
oath ?
Again; It will be borne in mind, that when
wager of law was first practised, the principle
which would not allow an action of debt on simple
contract, against an executor, also deprived the
creditor of every other remedy. The maxim
then applied was actio personalis moritur cum
pesona. But, after the introduction of the-action
of assumpsit, it was held by the Courts, not only
that the debt survived against the personal, representatives of the deceased, but the debtor himself

OF THE UNITED STATES.

659

was not permitted to wage his law in this form of 1823.
action. It is manifest, however, that both of Childre"
these opinions originated in the mistaken application of the principle which sustained wager of law, Emory.
viz. to the.form of the remedy instead of the
evidence of the debt; and that,-in truth, there
was no legal necessity to resort' to such refinements to get rid, either of the maxim, or of wager
of law.
When case on assumpsit was introduced, promissory notes were scarcely known. Prior to
Elizabeth's reign, debt was the only remedy on
simple contract. The Year Books furnish no
instance of the action of assumpsit, and Slade's
cased is the first judicial sanction of this form of
action. This was shortly after followed by Pinchon's case,' in which assumpsit was enforced
against executors, and wager of law was denied to the testator. But, in introducing the
remedy by assumpsit, it was by no means the design of the Courts to abolish the remedy by debt
on simple contract. It was an additional remedy,
intended to avoid an inconvenient maxim in one
case, and a no less inconvenient mode of trial in
another. The action of 'debt, however, remained
a suitable remedy in all cases of simple contract,
where wager of law would not lie. In the case
now under consideration, assumpsit.might, indeed,
have been brought against the executors of Childress. If, in debt against Childress himself, be,
a 4Co. Rep.92.

b 9 CO. 86.

44Eliz.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

660
1823.
i
Childress

V.

Emory.

could not have waged his law, why should this
remedy be denied against his executors? If the
testator had not this privilege, the plaintiff had

his election to sue in debt or assumpsit.

Of late,

debt on simple contract has become a more favourite and practiced remedy. In some respects, it
is preferable to assumpsit; for, in debt, the judgment isfinal, and not interlocutory, as in assumpsit. The defendant, also, in some cases, is compellable to find bail in error, though the judgment
be by nil dicit, or on demurrer.* Both in England and this country, debt is brought on notes
and bills, wherever the responsibility is not merely
collateral ;b and no reason can be assigned for
refusing it in the present case, except the one I
have endeavoured to show was never applicable
to this species of simple contract. It is material
to be recollected, that wager of law was not at any
time a well fixed or established privilege. In the
reign of Edward III. the Courts very consistently
held, that where a testator might wage his law,
his executors might also.c The grounds of its
application were always, in a degree, uncertain;
and its admission or rejection, was under the
sound discretion of the Court. Wager of law,
says Ch. Baron Ward, is a matter ex gratiacuria.
Judges are to use a sort of discretion in admitting
people to it.d
a 1 H. BI. 550. 3 East's Rep. 359. 2 Saund. 216. 1 Cldtty's
Plead.107.

b Bishop v. Young, 2 Bos. 4 Pull. 78.
2 Wheat. Rep. s85.

c 29 Edw. IJ. 36 b.37 a.
d 12 Mod. 676.

Rabourg v. Peyton

OF THE UNITED STATES.

661

As to-the recent case of Barry v. Robinson," 1823.
it does, indeed, decide, that an action of debt

cannot be maintained against an executor or ad-

v.

ministrator, on the simple contract debt of his

Emry.

testator or intestate, such as a promissory note ;
and the reason assigned for denying the remedy,
was the one I have endeavoured to refute. But
ought this case to outweigh those which have been
advanced in support of a contrary opinion ? It is a
solitary case, standing amidst the accumulated
decisions of centuries. From the days of Elizabeth to the year 1805, and since, no case can be
found, in which wager of law has been applied to
the case of a promissory note, though debt has
been frequently brought on notes and bills. The
point now under consideration passed sub silentio in the case of Barry v. Robinson; it was not
adverted to, either in the argument at the bar, or
by the Court. Had the question been made, and
the mind of the Court been expressly directed to
the distinction between these evidences of debt
and other simple contracts, the decision must
have been different. In that case, perhaps, there
was no objection to resort to another form of
action; but in the circumstances of the present
case, if this action cannot be sustained, it will be
of little avail to prosecute in another form. Sir
James Mansfield, in that case, rested his opinion
on the distinction between debt and assumpsit, as
applicable to the case of executors; but no inquiry
was made as to the nature of the proof to sustain
a I New. Rep. 293.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182S. the action. He admitted, that the distinction was
,--" not founded in good sense, but denied his power to
Cbildress
V.
EmOry.

alter the law.

I have endeavoured to show, that

the law needed no alteration, as this summary
mode of trial was not applicable, and never had
been applied to such substantial evidences of debt
as notes and bills.
2. But even supposing that, by the common
law of Engldind, the testator could have waged
his law in this case, is it proper that this antiquated doctrine should be adopted as a part of
our jurisprudence ? The wager of battle, and
the various other barbarous modes of trial invented
by a superstitious age, are equally portions of the
common law; yet, all will allow, that they are
wholly at variance with the genius and spirit of
our institutions, and are not fit to be incorporated
with our jurisprudence. At one time the plaintift
was obliged to produce his secta; and, though
our declarations still conclude with an inde producit sectam, in compliance with the fashion of
former times, yet, an attempt at this day, practically to revive this preliminary proof, would, no
doubt, be regarded as the result of a most adventurous and indiscriminate admiration of the common law.
3. The wager of law has never been adopted
in this country. The reported adjudications of
this country do not allude to the distinction between debt and assumpsit on simple contracts, nor
is wager of law once mentioned in any of them.
The statutes of the various States are equally

OF THE UNITED STATES.

silent, with the exception of New-Jersey and 1823.
South Carolina.' In the former State, wager of Childres
law is abolished in all cases except of non-sumv.
mons in real actions; and, in South Carolina, Emory.
wager of law is abolished in the action of detinue.
This provision, no doubt, was ex abundanti cautela. Detinue is there a practiced remedy for the
recovery of slaves, being preferable to replevin or
trover. As slaves are not connected with the
,realty,so as to oust the wager of law, if it otherwise obtained, it might have been supposed, that
this mode of trial would be attempted in detinue
for slaves, and to remove this possibility the statute
was enacted, for there is no instahce of its adoption in this, or any other action ; nor does the present record furnish any reason for supposing, that
it is known to the law or practice of th6 Courts of
Tennessee. It is, also, proper to remark, that
promissory notes, in the State of Tennessee, rest
on precisely the same principles as in England ;
and the statute of Anne is there in force. Wager
of law is a mode of trial hostile to the liberal spirit of our laws. By this trial the defendant becomes not only a witness in his own cause, but the
only witness; and one, too, who cannot be contradicted either by proofs or circumstances. The
judgment thereon isfinal; more conclusive than
a verdict, for, when the defendant is sworn de
fidelitate, and his eleven compurgators de credua Rev. Laws of N. J. 1795.
b Grimke's Laws of S. Car.

CASES IN THE, SUPREME COURT

1823.
Childres
ChildrrS3

V.

Emory.

litate, all controversy is terminated. There could
be no new trial, for any cause whatever.a If ever
so flagrantly abused by perjury, there can be no
remedy; for it was a well established maxim, that
"indictment for perjury lies not for false swearing in the trial by wager of law."' b The mock
solemnity in the manner of waging law, would ill
suit the simplicity of judicial proceedings in this
enlightened age and country.0 Trial by jury is
the only mode of trial known to our common law
jurisprudence. The Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
s. 34. provides, that the laws of the several States
shall be rules of decision on all trials at common
law, except where the laws of the United States
The constitution exshall otherwise require.
pressly guaranties trial by jury in all common law
cases, where the amount exceeds twenty dollars.
And though the phraseology of this article of the
constitution seems to aim at the preservation of
that which was before the admitted mode of trial,
yet there can be no doubt that it was a primary
object to abolish all summary trials, all barbarous
and unsuitable modes of judicial investigation.
The other causes of demurrer may be more
briefly examined. It is clear, from the declaration, that the firm of 97illiam Cochran 4- Comegys was composed of but two persons, viz.
William Cochran & Comegys. The declaration
alleges, that John G. Comegys was the surviving
partner of this firm, and this is equivalent to an
a 2 Salk. 682. 2 Vent. 171. 12 Mod. 676.
b 1 Vent. 296. Co. Lift. 295.
r Bract. 411. Fleta, 137. 2 Lill. Abr. 824.

665

OF THE UNITED STATES.

express averment that the Comegys of the firm,
and John G. Comegys, who survived, are the same
persons; that the firm was composed of none else,
and that John G. Comegys survived William
Cochran. The forms of declaring or pleading
do not require that every possible inference should
be negatived. All that is required, is "certainty
to a common intent,". or, at most, " ' certainty to a
certain intent in general;" by which i meant, what,
upon a tair and reasonable construction, may be
called certain, without requrring to possible facts,
which do not appear
This species of certainty
is sufficient in all declarations, replications, and
even indictments. If there be sufficient certainty
to enable the defendant to answer, the jury to
decide, and the Court to render iudgment, it is
well, though the nicety of critics may not be gratified. It is said, that a more rigid certainty is
sometimes required, -but this is doubtful; and, if
not, it obtains only in two cases, viz. in pleas of
estoppel, and alien enemy, which are not favoured,
and are. therefore, said to demand a certainty to
"a certain intent in every particular."b On inspecting this declaration, could a reasodable doubt
be entertained by the defendant below, the Court
or jury, that this firm was composed of any but
the two persons mentioned, and that John G. Comegys is the person alluded to in the firm, and in
the note, and that he survived William Cochran ?
The next objection to the declaration regards
a 2 H. BL 530. Cowp. 682. 1 Saund. 276.
Pkad.237.
b 8 Term Rep. 167. Dougl. 159.
VOL. VIII.
S4

1 Cthiff'v

1823.
Childrm

v.
Emory.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

the mode in which Joel Childress is alleged to
made this note. But it would not have been
proper to have stated, that the note was signed by
Joel Childress, for this was not thefact; nor that
it was made by A. Childress, for the debt was not
his, but Joel's. The. declaration might have
stated, that the note was made by Joel, without
noting the agency, for this is its legal operation.
But the allegation in this case is according to the
fact, viz. that " the said Joel Childress, by his
agent, A. Childress, made," &c. and this is the
safest and usual mode. Whether A. Childress
were the lawfully authorized agent of Joel, is matter of proof, not of pleading.,
It is, also, objected, that there is no sufficient
profert of the letters testamentary; and that it
does not appear from what authority they emanated. The omission of profert is, no doubt, cause
of special demurrer; but, where profert is made,
its sufficiency is matter of evidence only, and a
demurrer to it, as evidence, would lie. But the
demurrer in this case, is not for the omission, nor
for defectively making the profert, nor does it appear in the shape of a demurrer to evidence, complaining of the insufficiency of the authority granting the letters. But were this the case, non constat from this record, by whom they were granted,
which surely was the fault of the plaintiff in error,
not of the defendant; how the Court below was
to have judged this matter. or how this Court

CJhildrens Shave

V.

Emory.

a 1 I. BiL 3is. 6 Term Rep. 659.
note a. Chithl. Bills, 627. note a. nots" b.

, Phill. Evid. 4. 5

OF THE UNITED STATES.

can judge of the sufficiency of the letters, for they
do not appear to have been legally before the
Court below, and they are not before this in any
form. This was the fault of the defendant below.
After the profert, he should have craved oyer, and
then demurred.a
But this demurrer, I presume, cannot be sustained on any ground; for if the letters proffered
were those of the State of Tennessee, the plaintiffs' right to sue will not be questioned: and if
the letters were granted in Maryland, the statute
of 1809, c. 121. s. 1,.2. of Tennessee, expressly
authorizes executors or administrators to sue in the
Courts of that State, under letters granted by
any of the sister States.
The last objection which has been made, is to
the jurisdiction of the Court, viz. that the declaration only avers the parties to this suit to be citizens of different States, but has not stated their
respective testators to be citizens of different
States. But this is not a case embraced by the
11th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
Executors are not assignees, within the letter or
spirit of that act: they are something more than
assignees; they are representatives, who are not
mere instruments, for they have the property of
their testator, both legal and equitable, vested in
them. They are the absolute owners of the property, as to all strangers: they are the lords of
all the contracts made with their testator; they
may release, sue, or receive payment on them;
a 2 Mils. Re. 413.

1 Chifft!s Plead. 416.

667
1823.
Childrem

V.
Emory.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
C

Childres
V.

Emory.

and, until the estate is settled, not even the legatees, or distributees, can interfere with them.
This is a case, then, under the constitution; and
the controversy is between citizens of different
States, not nominally merely, but substantially.
It is,. therefore, immaterial to inquire, whether
their respective testatorswere citizens of the same,
or of different States.a

Marchr 14Th.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court. This is an action brought by the executors of John G. Comegys, who was surviving
partner of the firm of William Cochran & Comegys, to recover the contents of a promissory note,
made by Joel Childress, deceased, (whose executor the plaintiff in error is,) payable to the firm
of William Cochran & Comegys. The cause
came before the Circuit Court for the District of
West Tennessee, upon a special demurrer to the
declaration; and the Court having overruled the
demurrer, it has been brought here by writ of
error.
The several causes assigned for special demurrer have been argued at the bar; but before we
proceed to the consideration of them, we may as
well dispose of the objection taken to the jurisdiction. The parties, executors, are, in the writ and
declaration, averred to be citizens of different
States; but it is not alleged that their testators
were citizens of different States; and the case
a unappedelaine v. Vechenaux, 4 Cranc's Rev. 306.

Cond. Law, 113. 11 .

Serg.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

669

has, therefore, been supposed to be affected by 1823.
the 11th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20. -""'
v.
But that section has never been construed to apply
mory.
to executors and administrators. They are the
real parties in interest before the Court, and succeed to all the rights of their testators, by operation of law, and no other persons are the representatives of the personalty, capable of suing and
being sued. They are contrldistinguished, therefore, from assignees, who claim by the act of the
parties. The point was expressly adjudged in
Chappedelaine v. Dechenaux, (4 Cranch's Rep.
306.) and, indeed, has not been seriously pressed
on the present occasion.
The first cause of demurrer is, that the declaration states the note to have been made to the
firm of William Cochran & Comegys, but" does
not state who in particular the persons composing
that firm were. Upon consideration, we' do not
think this objection ought to prevail. The firm
are not parties to the suit; and if Comegys wl-,
as the declaration asserts, the surviving partner
of the firm, his executor is the sole party entiti' d
to sue. It is not necessary, in general, in deriving a title through the endorsement of a firm,
to allege, in particular, who the persons are composing that firm; for, if the endorsement be made
in the name of the firm, by a person duly authorized, it gives a complete title, whoever may compose the firm. (See S Chitty's Plead. 2. 39.) If
this be so, in respect to a derivative title, from the
act of the parties, more particularity and certainty
do not seem essential in a derivative title by the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

act of the law. A more technical averment might,
Chitess Sindeed, have been framed upon the rules of good
V.
E m'y.

pleading; but the substance is preserved. And
there is some convenience in not imposing any un-

necessary particularity, since it would add to the
proofs; and it is not always easy to ascertain or
prove the persons composing firms, whose names
are on negotiable instruments, especially where
they reside at a distance; and every embarrassment in the proofs, would materially diminish the
circulation of these valuable facilities of commerce.
Another cause of demurrer is, that the declaration does not aver that the note was signed by
Joel Childress. To this it is sufficient to answer,
that the declaration does state, that " Joel Childress, by his agent, A. Childress, made" the
note; and it is not necessary-to state that he signed
it; it is sufficient if be made it. The note might
have been declared on as the note of the principal, according to its legal operation, without noticing the agency; and though it would have been
technically more accurate to have averred, thpit
the principal, by his agent, in that behalf duly
authorized, made the note, yet it is not indispensable; for, if he makes it by his agent, it is a necessary inference of law, that the agent is authorized, for, otherwise, the note would not be made
by the principal; and that the demurrer itself
admits. (See Chitty on Bills, Appx. Sect. p. 528,
and notes, id. Bayley on Bills, 103. 2 Phillips'
Evid. ch. 1. s. 1. p. 4. 6.)
Another cause of demurrer is, that the declara-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

671

tion omits to state any damages; but this, if in 1825.
any respect material in an action of debt, is cured ChHUt
v.
by the writ, which avers an ad damnum of 500
Emory.
dollars.
Another cause of demurrer is, that the letters
testamentary are not sufficiently set forth to show
the right of the plaintiffs to sue. But profert is
made of the letters testamentary, in the usual
form; and if the defendant would have objected to them as insufficient, he should have
craved oyer, so as to have brought them before the
Court. Unless oyer be craved and granted, they
cannot be judicially examined. And if the plaintiffs were not executors, that objection should have
been taken by way of abatement, and does not
arise upon a demurrer in bar. It may be added,
that, by the laws of Tennessee, executors and administrators, under grants of administration by
other States of the Union, are entitled to sue in
the Courts of Tennessee without such letters
granted by the State. (Act of Tennessee, 1809,
oh. 121. s. 1, 2.)
It was, also, suggested at the bar, but not assigned as cause of demurrer, that the action
ought not to have been in the detinet only; but in
the debet et detinet. This is a mistake. Debt
against an executor, in general, should be in the
detinet only, unless he has made himself personally responsible, as by a devastavit.

(Comyn's

Dig. Peader, 2 D. 2. 1 Citty's Plead.292.
344. 2 Chitty's Plead. 141: notef. Hope v.
Bague, 3 East, 6. 1 Saund. Rep. 1. note 1. 1
Saund. 112. note 1.) And if it had been other

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
u
Childrws

V.

Emory.

wise,'the objection could only have been taken advantage of on special demurrer, for it is but mat-

ter of form. and cured by our statute of jeofeAis.
(Burlandv. Tyler, 2 Lord Raym. 1391, 2 Chitty's Pl. 141. notef. Act of 1789, ch. 20. s. 32.)
But the most important objection remains.to be
considered ; and that is, that an action of debt
does not lie upon a promissory note against executors. It is argued, that debt does not lie upon
a simple contract generally against executors.;
and the case of Barry v. Robinson, in 4 Bos. 4Pull. 293. has been cited as directly in point.
Certainly, if this be the settled rule of the common law, we are not at liberty to disregard it,, even
though the reason of the rule may appear to be
frivolous, or may have ceased to be felt as just in
its practical operation. But we do not admity
that the rule of the common law is as it fias been
stated at the bar. We understand, on the contrary, that the general rule is, that debt does lie
against executors upon a simple contract; and
that an exception is, that it does not lie in the particular case, where the testator may wage his law.
When, therefore, it is established in any given
case, that there can be no wager of law by the
testator, debt is 'a proper remedy. Lord Chief
Baron.Comyns lays down the, doctrine, that debt
lies against bxecutors upon any debt.or contract
without specialty, where the testator could not
have waged his law; and he puts the case of debt
for rent upon a parol lease to exemplify it. (Com.
Dig. Administration, B. 14. See, also, Com.
Dig. Pleader, 2 W. 45. tit. 2 D. 2.) The same

OF THE UNITED STATES.

673

doctrine -is laid down in elementary writers. 1823.
(1 Chitty's Plead. 106. Chitty on Bills, oh. Childre53
6.. p. 426.) Upon this ground, the action of debt
t.
is admitted to lie against executors in cases of Emory.
simple contract, in Courts where the wager of
law is not admitted, as" in the Courts of London,
by custom. So, in the Court of -Exchequer, upon
a more general principle, the wager of law is not
allowed upon a quo minus. (Com. Dig. Plead.
2 W.45. Godbolt, 291. 1 Chitty's Plead. 106.
93. Bohun's Hist. of London, 86.) The reason
is obvious; the plaintiff shall not, by the form of
his action, deprive the executor of any lawful
plea, that might have been pleaded by his testator; and as the executor can in no case wage his
law, (Com. Dig. Pleader,2 W. 45.) he shall not
be compelled to answer to an action. in which his
testator might have used that defence. Even the
doctrine, with these limitations, is so purely artificial, that the executor may waive the benefit of it;
and, therefore, if he omits to demur, and pleads
in bar to the action, and a verdict is fopind against
him, he cannot take advantage of the objection,
either in'arrest of judgment, or upon a writ of error.
(2 Saund. Rep. 74. note-2. by Williams, and the
authorities there cited. Norwood v. Read, Plowd.
182. Cro. Eliz. 557.) Style, in his Practical
Register, lays down the rule with its exact limitations. "No action," says he. ."shall ever lie
against an .executor or administrator, where the
testator or intestate might have waged their law;
because they have lost the benefit of making that
defence, which is a good defence in that action;
VoL. VIII.

85

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

674
1823.
he
Childress

V.
Emory.

and, if their intestate or testator had been living,
they might have taken advantage of it."

(Style's

Pr. Reg. and Comp. Atty. in Courts of Common Law, (1707,) p. 666.)
In the view, therefore, which we take of this
case, we do not think it necessary to enter into
the consideration, whether the case in 4 iBos. 4Pull. 293. which denies that debt will lie against
executors upon a promissory note of the testator,
is law. There is, indeed, some reason to question, at least since the statute of Anne, which has
put negotiable instruments upon a new and peculiar footing, whether, upon the authorities and general doctrines which regulate that defence, it
ought to be applied to such instruments. The
cases cited at the bar by the plaintiff's counsel,
contain reasoning on this point, which would deserve very serious consideration. But waiving any
discussion of this point, and assuming the case ih
4 Bos. 4-Pull.293. to have been rightly decided,
it does not govern the case now before the Court;
for -that case does not affect to assert or decide,
that the action of debt will not lie ii cases where
there can be no wager of law.
Now, whatever may be said upon the question,
whether the wager of law was ever introduced
into the common law of our country by the emigration of our ancestors, it is perfectly clear, that
it cannot, since the establishment of the State of
Tennessee, have had -alegal existence in its jurisprudence. The constitution of that State has
expressly declared, that the trial by jury shall remain inviolate; and the constitution of the United

OF THE UNITED STATES.

States has also declared, that in suits at common
law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be
preserved. Any attempt to set up the wager of
law, would be utterly inconsistent with this acknowledged right. So that the wager of law, if
it ever had a legal existence in the United States,
is now completely abolished. If, then, we apply
the rule of the. common law to the present case,
we shall arrive, necessarily, at the conclusion, that
the action of debt does lie- against the executor,
because the testator could never have waged his
law in this case.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuit
Court is affirmed, with 6 per cent. damages, and
costs.

(PRAXcTICE.

PLE.&DINGS.]

and NALL, Administrators of WILLIAM
NALL, deceased, Plaintiffs in Error,

SIGLAR

V.

Public Treasurer of the State of
North Carolina, Defendant in Error.

JOHN HAYWOOD,

An executor or administrator is not liable to a judgment beyond the
assets to be administered, unless he pleads a false plea.
If he fail to sustain his plea of plene administravi4 it is not necessarily a false plea within his own knowledge; and, if it be found
against him, the verdict ought to find the amount of assets unadministered, and the defendant is liable for that sum only.
In such a case, the judgment is de bonis tstaorh, and not de banis
proprlis.

676

1825.
Si
Haywood.

