495

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pended while it lasts; and unless they are waived
stipulations
by the parties, or new and repugnant
are made, they revive in their operation at the. re-

1823.
'-

turn of peace.

A majority of the Court is of opinion, that
judgment upon this special verdict ought to be
given for the plaintiffs, which opinion is to be
certified to the Circuit Court.
Certificate for the plaintiffs.

[DEvis.]

DALY'S Lessee v. JAMES.
1. B. devises all his real estate to the testator's son, J. B., jun., and his
heirs lawfully begotten; and, in case of his death wi/totd such
issue, he orders A. Y., his executors and administrators, to sell the
real estate within two zjears after tMe son's death; and he bequeaths
the proceeds thereof to his brothers and sisters, by name, and their
hers for ever, or such of them as shall 4e living at the death of the
son, to be divided between them in equal proportions,share and
share alike. All the brothers and sisters die, leaving Issue. Then
A. Y. dies, and afterwards 3. B., jun., the son, dies without issue.
Heirs is a word of limitation; and none of the testator's brothers
and sisters being alive at the death of J. B., jun., the devise to them
failed to take effecL
qtuere, Whether a sale by the executors, &. under such creamstances, is to be considered as valid in a Court of law ?
Rowever this may be, a sale, thus made, after the lapse of two years
from the death of J. B., jun., is without authority, and conveys no
title.
Qzure, Under what circumstances a Court of equity might relieve,
I

Daly

V.

'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Daly

v.

in case the trustee should refuse to exercise the power within the
prescribed period, or should exercise the same after that period?
A power to A. Y., and his executors or administrators, to sell, may be
executed by the executors of the executors of A. Y.

~

James.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania.
This was an action of ejectment, brought in the
Court below, by the plaintiffs in error, to recover
the possession of a messuage and lot in the city of
Philadelphia. The special verdict in the case
stated, that on the 8th of August, 1768, John
Bleakley, of Philadelphia, being then in London,
made and duly executed hiL last will, as follows:
"In the name of God, amen. I, John Bleakley,
of Philadelphia, esquire, now in London, and
shortly bound to Philadelphia, being in perfect
health, and of sound and disposing mind, memory,
and understanding, and considering the certainty
of death, and the uncertainty of the time thereof,
do therefore make and declare this my last will
and testament, in manner following, that is to say:
First, and principally, I commend my soul to God,
and my body to the earth or sea,'as he shall please
to order; and as for and concerning my worldly
estate, I give, devise, and bequeath the same in
manner following, that is to say: First, I will and
desire that all my just debts and funeral expenses,
(if any,) be fully paid and satisfied, as soon as
conveniently may be after my decease. Also, I
give and bequeath to my brother, David Bleakley,
living in the north of Ireland, the sum of ten
pounds sterling. Also, I give and bequeath to
my brother, William Bleakley, living near Dungannon, the sum of ten pounds sterling. Also, I

OF THE UNITED STATES.

497

give and bequeath to my sister, Margaret Hark- 1828.
ness, of Dungannon, the sum of one hundred
Day
V.
pounds sterling. Also, I give and bequeath to
my sister, Sarah, Boyle, wife of the Rev. Mr. James.
Boyle, the sum of ten pounds sterling. Also, I
give and bequeath to my cousin, Archibald Young,
of Philadelphia, an annuity of thirty pounds,
Pennsylvania money, to be paid to him out of the
rents and profits of my real estate, on the 25th
day of March, in every year, during the joint
lives of him, the said Archibald Young, and my
son, John Bleakley, or his heirs lawfully begotten. But, in case of the decease of my said son,
without issue lawfully begotten as aforesaid, in
the lifetime of the said Archibald Young, then
the said annuity is to cease; and in lieu thereof,
I give and bequeath .unto the said Archibald
Y6ung, and his assighs, the sum of four hundred
pounds sterling, payable out of the proceeds of
my real estate, when the same is sold and disposed
of, according to the intention of this my will,
herein after mentioned, and before any dividend
is made of the proceeds of my said estate. And
this legady or bequest is made to my said cousin,. Archibald Young,. not only for the natural
affection I have and bear to him as a relation, but
also as a full compensation for the services he has
already rendered me, and in lieu of his commissions for the trouble he may hereafter have in the
execution of this my will. All the rest and residue
of my estate, real and personal, of what nature,
kind or quality the same may be or consist, and
herein before not particularly disposed of, I give,
VOL. VIII

63

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
v
Daly

V.

James.

devise, and bequeath to my son, John Bleakley,
and his heirs lawfully begotten; and in case of the
decease of my said son, without such issue, then
I do direct and order my said cousin, Archibald
Young, his executors or Administrators, to sell
and dispose of my real estate, within two years
after the decease of my said son, John Bleakley,
to the best advantage. And I do hereby give and
bequeath the proceeds thereof to my said brothers,
David Bleakley and William Bleakley, and my
said sisters, Margaret Harkness and Sarah Boyle,
and their heirs for ever, or such of them as shall
be living at the decease of my said son, to be divided between them in, equal proportions, share
and share alike, after deducting-out of such proceeds the sum of 400 pounds sterling, herein before given and bequeathed to the said Archibald
Young, immediately on the decease of my said
son without issue in lieu of the annuity above
mentioned. And in case my said son should die
before he attains the age of twenty-one years,
without issue lawfully begotten, as aforesaid, then
my will and mind is, that the remainder of my
personal estate, hereby intended for my said son
at his own disposal, if he should live to attain the
age of twenty- -ne years, shall go to, and be divided
amongst my said brothers and sisters, with the
proceeds of my real estate, as is herein before
directed to be divided. And I do hereby nominate
and appoint the said Archibald Young, and my
said son, John Bleakley, executors of this my will,
hereby revoking, and making void, all former wills,
codicils. and bequests, by me, at any time or times

OF THE IJN1TED STATES.

heretofore made, and do ordain this will to be
as and for my last Will and testament. In witness
where~f," &c.
The testator died in the month of January,
1769. His brothbrs and sisftrs all died, leaving
children, (who are still alive,) at or about the following periods, viz. Sarah Boyle' between the
years 1760 and 1770; William in the year 1775;
David in the year 1790, and Margaret Harkness
in the year 1794. The children were of full age,
or nearly so, when the above will was made, and
were personally known to the testator. Archibald
Young died in May, 1782, having duly made and
executed his last will and testament, whereby he
appointed Robert Correy his executor, who, on
the 24th of April, 1797, made his last will and
testament, and thereof appointed Eleabor Curry,
and James Boyd,-the executors, and died in June,
1802.
John Bleakley, the son, died on the 3d of. September, 1802, without issue, and of full age, having previously executed his last will and testament,
whereof he appointed J. P. Norris his executor,
and thereby directed his real and personal estate
to be sold, and the proceeds, after paying certain
legacies, to be divided among certain of his relations. On the 25th of May, 1803, the said Norris, for a valuable consideration, sold and conveyed
the premises in dispute to W. Folwell, who, on
the 21st of April, 1810, conveyed the same for a
valuable consideration to the defendant. On the
ist of February, 1805, Eleanor Curry, and James
Boyd, the executbrs of R. Correy, (who -was the

499
1823.
Daly

V.
Jame.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

executor of A. Young,) by deed, bargained and
the premises in question to James Smith,
which deed was afterwards cancelled; and subsequently, on the 7th of March, 1820, they sold

Ssold

Daly

v.
James.

and conveyed the said premises to the lessor of
the plaintiff, who, at the time of his purchase, had
notice of the death of the hothers and sisters of
John Bleakley, in the lifetime of his son.
Upon this special verdict, judgment having bern
rendered, pro forma, for .the defendant, in the
Court &elow, the cause was brought by writ of
error to this Court.
Feb. 25 Th.

Mr. JWkeaton, for the plaintiff, stated, that the
w ill of J. Bleakley, senior, was, in effect, a devise of an estate tail to the testator's son, with a
remainder over to his executor, A. Young, &c. in
trust to sell, in case of the son's dying without
issue, and the proceeds to be distributed equally
among his brothers and sisters, and their heirs,
(as a designatio persone,) oi such of them as
should be living.at the son's death. But the first
difficulty in the cause was, a determination of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, upon an ejectment brought in that Court under the same will.
The State Court there held, that the word "heirs"
was a word of limitation; and none of the brothersand sisters being alive at the death of the son, J.
Bleakley, junior, the object of the power to sell
had failed; their issue were not entitled, and a
sale by the executors of Young conveyed no title ;
although it was admitted, that the power might be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

executed by Young's executors, if the object of 1823.
sale had continued.
Daly
This decision was that of two Judges only,b and
V.
could hardly be considered as a binding authority James.
even in the State Courts, whatever respect might
be felt for the great abilities of the learned Judges
by whom it was pronounced. This is not one of
those cases where the decisions of the State
Courts, on questions of local law, establish rules
of property, which this Court will not disturb; but
it is a mere question of the interpretation of a
will, depending entirely on the rules of the common law.
There are two questions for nonsideration:
(1.) Whether the power, or trust, to sell, now
exists ? and, (2.) How the distribution of the proceeds of the sale is to be made ?
The second question is certainly subordinate to
the fiErst. For if there be an absolute power to
sell, (as will be contended,) then the disposition of
the fund is a matter to be determined between the
trustees, and those who may claim it in a Court
of equity; but it cannot interfere with the paramount authority to sell. But it has been supposed,
that if the object for creating the fund no longer
exists, the power is gone with it. The second
question, therefore, will be considered first; not
meaning, however, to admit, that the one is a corollary from the other. Reasons may have existed
a Smith's lessee v. Folwell, I Binney's Rep. 546.
b Tilghman, Ch. 3., and Yeates, J. ; Smith, J., died after the
argument, and before judgment, and Breckenridge, J., dismnted.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'and
Daly
V.
a"es.

to induce the testator to desire a sale at all events;
the fact of its not beingin express terms restricted to any particular event, goes to prove, that
it was t6 be made under all circumstances, except
only the son's having issue.
Such is the necessary ambiguity of al1 human
language, that particular words used in a will, or
any other writing, must be taken in their most
usual technical sense,. or not, according to other
considerations. One of the most important of
these considerations, is the design of the writer,
as manifested by the general scope of the writing
itself. What, then; was the intention of the testator, and who were the objects of his bounty, as
manifested by the will itself? We contend, that
he intended to devise all his property, and to'retain it in his own family. The first and great rule
in the exposition of wills, is the intention of the
testator expressed, which, if consistent with the
rules of law, shall prevail.a To this, all other
rules are but subsidiary or suppletory.b Supposing
thii to be the design of the testator, the means
are appropriate to the end. He gives to his cousin,
A. Young, a small pecuniary annuity, burthened
with onerous duties; and to his son, the mere usufruct of the residue, unless he should have children; in which event only the restraint on alienation is removed.
The first great object of the testator's bounty,
a Cas. Temp. Talbot, 43. 2 Burr. 770.
Ambose v. Hodgson, Dougl.323.
b Sir W. Jones., Ieus. Comm. 308.

1 Fonbl. Eq. 413.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

then, was his son. The second class of objects
was his brothers and sisters; and the third class
was the children of his brothers and sisters.
Had the brothers and sisters survived the son,
they would unquestionably have succeeded, by
the executory devise, on the occurrence of the
sole contingency, viz. the death of the son, without issue lawfully begotten.. Did the devise extend beyond the brothers and sisters? It is clear
that it was not, in terms, restricted to the brothers and sisters personally: the terms of it contemplate something more. The words are, "to
mysaid brothers, &c. and my said sisters, &c.
and their heirs for ever, or such of them as shall
be living at the decease of my said son, to be divided between them in equal proportions, share
and share alike." Whatever.may be the technical meaning of the word heiis, &c. the use of
them certainly shows that the testator looked beyond the brothers and sisters. The opposite construction rejects words which the testator has
thought fit to use; and it is a well established
principle, that no words in a will shall be rejected
that can bear any construction.a The opposite
argument must also take for granted, that the
words, " such of them as shall be living," &c.
refer to brothers and sisters merely. But this
supposition is contradicted, both by fair grammatical construction, and the general scope of the
will. Fiat relatio prozimus antecedenti: the
word " them? is in immediate juxtaposition with
a Barry v. Edgeworth, 2 P. Wyrs. 575.

503
1823.
Daly
V.

James.

504

1823.
\of

Daly.

James.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the word "heirs."

The whole scope and object

the will, is to provide for the family; and to

restrict this devise to the brothers and sisters, is
to defeat this object. The intention of the testa-

tor was evidently to dispose of his property, not
to leave it floaiing and precarious. The death of
his brothers and sisters was naturally to have been
expected; but of their children, some of them
would probably be alive, should the son die without issue. It was not for the purpose of'giving a
fee simple that the word "heirs" was introduced;
for it was personal property which was devised,
and which would pass absolutely without words
of inheritance. The children of hi's rothers and
sisters were personally well known and dear to
him. They were, therefore, the natural objects
of his bounty; and this extrinsic circumstance
may aid in the construction.
I But what is the meaning of the word " heirs,"
as coupled with the words "brothers and sisters ?"
It may mean, (.) HEIRS AT-LAW; in which case,
.whilst it bears the most technical meaning, it will
consist with a liberal and rational interpretation.
The proceeds go to the brothers, &c. If any of
them are dead, to the heir at law of the deceased,
standing in loco parentis, and the surviving brothers, &c. If all are dead, leaving children, to
the heirs at law of all. If all are dead, and some
have left no children, and, therefore, no heirs at
law, except the children of the others, then to
the surviving heirs at law. (2.) Or it may mean
It is thus used in popular discourse,
CHILDREN.
and writings not technical: " If children, then

OF THE UNITED STATES.

heirs," says St. Paul.*. The testator himself uses
it in this sezise, in at least one other part of his

505
1825.
Daly

will. He says, "I give and bequeath to my son,
v.
John Bleakley,, and his heirs lawfully begotten; James.
and in case of his decease without such issue,"
&c. And this use of the word is perfectly legal.
Thus, in Jones v. Morgan: " Itis first necessary
to determine upon the Whole of the will, whether,
by ie word heirs, the testator meant that succession of persons so denomiriated by the law. If
that appear to be the intention, the rule in
Shelly's case must,, in all events, take place.
But when the word is used in any other sense, the
rule is not applicable, and the limitation must
have its effect, as'if proper words had been made
use of.' b So, in Banifleld v. Pohpkam, " Itwas
agreed, that the word heirs was not always, and of
necessity, to be intended as a word of limitation.
Thus, in 2 Ventr. 311., a devise to A., for life,
remainder to the heirs male of the body of A ,
now living: these were words of purchase. So,
in Raym. 279. Lisle v. Gray, I Jones, 114., lands
were limited to A. for life, &c. the words heirs
mate, were understood to signify sons."a And in
Darbison v. Beaumont: "Devise to the heirs
male of J. S., begotten. J. S. having a son, and
the testator taking notice that J. S. was then
a Rom. viil. 17.
b Bro. Ch. Rep. 206.
c 1 P. WYm. 59. S. P. 1 F. Mm. 87.142. 754. 2 P. Wrrz.
471. 1 Eg. Gas. Abr. 194. 3 Bt'o. Parl. d. 467. 2 Fee.
646. 1 Yenir. 225. 2 Lord Raym. 873. 1407. 2 Salk. 679.

Eqnsg7, 29.

VoL..

IL

64

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
V
Day
V.
James.

living, a sufficient description of testator's meaning, and such son shall take, though (strictly
speaking) he is not heir." "As to the objection,
that, Mr. Long being living, there could not, in a
legal sense, be any heir male, &c. it was answered, that the intent of the testator, by the devise, (which was the only matter in question,) did
plainly appear, &c. That the word heir had, in
law, several. significations: in the strictest, it signified one who had succeeded to a dead ancestor;
but in a more general sense, it signified an heir
apparent, which supposes the ancestor to be living;
and in this latter sense, the word heir is frequently
used in statutes, law books, and records." By
way of analogy, it may also be mentioned, that
the word "issue" is frequently taken as a descriptio persona.&
The rule in Shelly's case has been frequently
broken in upon in favour of last wills. Once fix
the intention, and the word heirsmay as well be a
word of prchase,as a word of limitation. And
it may even be taken as a word of purchase in a
deed, if such be the intention of the grantor.0 So,
also, in marriage articles., This is not upon the
principle, that the rules of property are different
a I P. Wime. 232. S. P. 1 Fentr. 344. 2 Lev. 232.e Raym.
330. 2 SirW . Jones,99. Polexf. 457.
b Cruise'l Dig.tit. 38. Devi8e, C. 10. s. 33-35.
c Lisle v. Gray, Th. Raym. 315. S. P. Walker v. Snow,
Pabner'sRep. 349.

d Houor v. Honor, 1 P. WMs.123.
Trevor Y.Trevor, Id. 612.

Bale v. Coleman, Id. 142.

West v. Errisey, 2 P. Wimns. 349.

OF THE.IUNIT,D STATES.

507

in Chancery from what they are at law; that 4o- 182j.
tion was long since completely exploded., But the
Daly"
Y.
rule has been still more frequently relaxed in the
case of devises, for very obvious reasons.b Several 11m .
attempts have been made, both by Judges and elementary Writers, to classify the cases, in which,
by an exception to the rule, the word heirs is construed as a word of purchase; but all the exceptions will be found to turn upon the intention of
the testator. And when it is said, that this intention must not be contrary to the rules of law, this
dictum does iot apply to the technical sense of the
terms used by the testator. It merely applies to
the legalitu of the oject which he wishes to effect.
e. g. The testator wishes to create aperpetuity; any
words, however untechnical, which import the idea,
are sufficient; but the. law will not permit a perpetuity to be created at all. This distinction is
clearly stated by Lord Keeper Henley. " It was
argued, that if the intent was plain, yet, if the testator had used words which, by the rules of law,
imported a different signification, the rule of law,
and not the intent, would prevail; but" There was
no such rule applicable to this base. In case of a
will, the intent shall prevail, if not contrary to law ;
the meaning of which is, ifthe limitations are
such as the law allows; but it does not mean, that
the words mtst be taken in such signification as
the law imposed on them. If words, which, in
a Vatts v. Bali, 1 P. Mms. 108. Philips v. Philips, Id. 35.
b Archer's case, 1 Co. Rep. 66. Luddington v. Klime, Lord
Raym. 203. Backhouse v. Wells, 1 Eq. Cas. Abr. 184. 1 Ventr.
184. Lord Raym. 1561. Bagshaw v. Spencer, I Yes. 142.

CASES N THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
v
V.
J"

cQnsideration of law,' were generally taken as
words of limitation, appear in a will to be very
plainly intended as words of purchase, they must
be considered as such both in Courts of law and
equity.""
But, admitting, argumenti gratia, that if the
,children of the testator's brothers and sisters take
in character of heirs, they must take in quality of
heirs, i. e. by descent; they may take in this manner consistently with the rules of law. Either it
is a contingent executory devise to their parents,
or, as it is commonly called, an executory interest;
or it is a contingency or possibility coupled with
an interest. In the first case, although the devisees die before the contingency happens, their
children will take by descent.' If it be a contingency.or possibility coupled with an interest, they
may take in the same manner.0 It is now the settled text law, that these contingent estates are
transmissible to the heirs of the. devisee, where
such devisee dies before the contingency happens,
and if not dispbsed of before, will vest in such
heirs when the contingency happens ; though fora Austen v. Taylor, .4mbl. 376. S. P. Sir WV. Jones, .T(us.
308.
b Gurnellv. Wood, 8 Vin. Abr. 112. Wier'e Rep. 211. S.
P. Goodriglit v. Searle, 2 Wilk. 29. Porter v. Bradley, 3 Term
Weale v. Lower, Pollexf.54. Vick v. Edwards, 3
.Rep. 143.
P. Wims. 372. 1 H. Bi. 30. 33. 3 Term Rep. 88.
c"King v. Withers, 3 P. Wins. 414. Perry v. Phillips, 1 Yes.
jr. 254. Selwyn v. Selwyn, 2 Burr. 1131. Roe v. Jones, 2 A.
Bi. 30.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M0

merly an opinion prevailed, that they could not 1823.
%Daly
pass by a will made previous to their vesting.*
D.
a
doubl
is
this
that
objected,
If it should be
Jame.
that
is,
answer
contingency, which is bad; the
there is no rule of law which prohibits a limitation
on a double contingency, or a contingency on another contingency. A limitation may be good,
though made to depend on any number of contingencies, if they be collateral to, or independent
of each other, and may all happen within the legal
time of limitation. In Routledge v. Dorril,b a
grandchild took on a limitation dependent on no
less than four contingencies.
It is a well established doctrine, that where a
class or denomination of heirs, indefinitely, are
intended to be embraced, the word heirs is a word
of limitation; but where particular or pecial
persons are constituted the stock of a new descent,
it operates as a word of purchase.0 Here the-devise is to the brothers and sisters, and such of
their heirs &s may be living at a particula time.
Heirs general, therefore, could not have been
meant; but only the heirs of each brother,and f
eawh sister, i. e. the children of each brother and
sister. The term is restricted (supposing it to be
a devise of the realty) to such as should be heir
a Fearnes'Cont. Rem. 534. 537. Cas. Temp. Talh. 123. 2
Ves. 119. 1 Sir. 131. 2 Aik. 618. Wak. Dew. 14. Cruises
Dig. tit. ,38. Devise, c. 3. s. 18-21. c. 20. s. 43-53. 2 B1.

Comm. 290.
b 2 Fe .jr. 358.
c Burgr. Lao Tracts, 561.
Cae. 206.

Jones v.Morgan, 1 Bro. Ch.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
%wvDa.. JAmf8.

of such of the brothers and sisters as were dead
when J. Bleakley, jun. died without leaving issue.
The heirship must be established by the known
canons of descent; but when ascertained, the objects defined would still. take by purchase. The
word heirs is, indeed, a word of limitation, fol the
purpose of ascertaining who are to take ; but after
it-has peroi-med that office, the objects who are
to take are in by purchase, and not by descent.
A nd herein, it is humbly apprehended, consists
the radical defect in the argument of the learned
Judges of the State Court. If the word heirs necessarily compelled all who take'under it, to take
in quality of heirs, then the argument, that they
must take per stirpes, and not per caVita, might
have its difficulties. But this word does not operate, exclusively, either as a word of purchase, or
of limitation. That it is often a word of purchase
hag been before shown; and in the common case
of a devise "to A. for life, remainder to the heirs
of B. who leaves a daughter,and his wife enseint
with cc son. On the death of B. the aaughter
takes, under thd'description of heir, bypurehase,
and she shall not be devested by the subsequent
birth of the' son."a So, also, in the case of an
estate tO A. for life, remainder to the right heirs
of B., or of an executory devise to the right heirs
of A. Thb canons of descent are referred to for
the purpose of ascertaining who 'are the fight
heirs; and, after this is ascertained, such persons
a Goodwright v. Wright, 1 Str, 30.
Watk. Dec. 208.

Dougl 499. note.

511

OF THE UNITED STATES.

take by purchase.

It does not follow, that be-

cause the word heirs is a word of limitation, that

the heirs, when ascertained, must take as heirs;
for there are many cases where terms of limitation operate only sub modo as such, viz. for the
purpose of defining the objects who are to take in
quality of purchasers. Thus, if a remainder be
limited in gavelkind, or borough English lands, to
the right heirs of A., the common law points out
the eldest son as the heir, contrary to the custom,
which gives the land in the one case to all the sons,
and in the other to the youngest son. " For,"
says Mr. Watkins, " notwithstanding we may
thus have recourse to the law of descents to ascertain the persons who are to take, yet, when they
are once ascertained,they take as purchasers.' 'c
So, if lands be devised to the right heirs of A.,
who leaves two daughters, they are both his heirs;
but they take not as parceners, (for to do this
they must take by descent,) but as joint-tenants,
or in common, i. e. as purchasers.' In general,
purchasers take per capita, and those who claim
by descent, take per stirpes; but if the intention
of the grantor or devisor can be better promoted
by purchasers taking per stirpes than per capita,
there is no inflexible rule of law to prevent it. In
the present case, we hold, that the intention is
plain, and that all claiming as heirs of those brothers and sisters would take per stirpes, even
a Wlatk. Desc. 226. Co. Litt. 220 a. Brown Y.Barkman,
I Str. 42.
h Coxden v.Clark. Hob. 33. 3 Lrwtt. 14. 24

1823.
Daly

V.
hme,

CASES IN THE' SUPREME COURT

\-

1823.
Dnly
V.
James.

though they take by purchase; but whether they
take in one way or the other is quite immaterial,
provided it be shown, that the brothers and sisters
¢'sonally were not the sole obects, of the testator's bounty, and, consequently, need not survive
J. Bleakley, jun.
The same construcion has been adopted, respecting personal property, under the statute of
distributions, 29 Charles II. c. 3. Where there
is a bequest of personalty to the relations or .next
of kin of A., the statute furnishes the rule; i. e.
ascertains who are the persons comprehended
within these words; and these persons may take
per capita, though if distributed, in such ease,
under the statute, they would take per stirpes.8
That these children are entitled to take, as
purchasers,under the word heirs, is manifest, as
none can claim by descent, unless the subject of
the limitationi vests, or might have vested, in the
ancestor, qua ancestor. But here no estate, in
lamd,, was ever contemplated to vest in the brothers
or sisterE named, or in either of them. The entire estate, in the land, vested either in Bleakley,
jun..or in loung, the executor, &c. and the proceeds. of a sale, i. e. personalty,only, was to be
phid over to such persons as'satisfied the description entitled at the time of Bleakley, jun. his death
without issue. Under no possible cireumstances
or view of the case, could these children take in
quality of heirs; because nothing ever did or
could vest in their parents as ancestors; and the
a Prec.in Ch. 401.

1 ltk. 470.

2 P. Wins. S5.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

subject itself of the devise was not real property
but money, of which. heirship cannot with legal
accuracy be predicated. It is, therefore, manifest,
that if they take at all., it mfist be as purchasers,
and that the word heirs may be used for the purpose of ascertaining who are embraced within the
scope of the testator's bounty; and, having performed that duty, it is fwactus offico, and ceases
to operate as a word of limitation.o
The next question in the cause is, whether the
power to sell exists in those who have exercised it,
and under a sale from whbm, the plaintiff claims
title ?
And this divides itself into two inquiries:
(1) Whether there is in any person, now existing,
an authority to sell ? (2) Whether the event has
taken place, which, in the contemplation of the
testator, was to occasion its exercise ?
I. It-is a familiar principle, that no execution- of
a trust shall fail for want of a-trustee. On a total
failure, Chancery will appoint one; but if the individual named by the testator is wanting, it devolves on the person who succeeds to the general
rights and duties with which it is coupled. Here
the direction of the *testator himself eXtends it
beyond the first individual named. The trust, as
it is created, extends not only to the executors,
but to thd admiAistratorsof A. Young,'wbo may
be total strangers. But even if it were not go;
the power given to one, will extend by operation
a

Co. Litt- 13 a. 298 a.

Watk Deec. 233.

[5 Ve8. jr. 365.
VOL. VIII.

65

Swain v. Burtom,

513
1823.

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

and construction of law to his executors, and so
on from executor to executor." And, by the local
Daly
V. law of Pennsylvania, the distinction between a
Ames. power to sell, and a devise of the land to be sold, iF
takeni away, and the executors have the same interest in the one case as in the other.' The remainder in fee, then, on the death of Bleakley,
jun. vested in the executors, &c. for the purpose of
sale. The will of the testator was, that it should
"be sold on the occurrence of that event. It is
immaterial for what reason. It is sufficient that it
was his will. The direction to sell is mandatory,
and not a mere discretionary authority. The
time within which it was to be performed is immaterial. Its performance might have been retarded by many accidents.
2. The event has occurred, which, in the contemplation of the testator, was to occasion the
exercise of the power to sell. The language of
the will, on this point, is unambiguous and clear.
",In case of the decease of my said son without
issue, then I do direct and order," &c. It is made
to depend on the single event of his decease without issue. How the proceeds are to be distributed,
is another and a distinct question. They are not
made dependent upon each other. If the brothers
and sisters had all lived, they could not have entered into possession of the real property: they
182g.

a 8 Vn .Abr. 465. P. c. cites 2 Bust. 291. 19 Hen. VI. fol.
-g. 8 Vin. 467. pl. 16. 2 Brownl. 194. Bulstr. 219. 1 Ch.
Ckg. 180. 2 B1. Cormn. 506.
b 3 I,a.s of l'ennsylc. 200.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

515

could only have compelled an execution of the
trust, by the preliminary measure of a sale.

1823.

Mr. Sergeant, contra, stated, that this case had
been submitted to the highest Court of Pennsylvania, where it was decided against the title, now
in question, so long since as 1809. He admitted,
that a verdict and judgment in ejectment were not
conclusive, and that a second ejectment might be
brought on the same title. But the decision of a
competent Court, of the higliest resort, solemnly
rendered on a question of law, submitted to them
by the parties, ought to be decisive of what the
law is on that question, as between the parties,
and all claiming under them with'notice. It would
be conclusive on that Court, and on all inferior
jurisdictions: and where there is concurrent jurisdiction, the rule is, that the tribunal which first
gets possession, has exclusive possession of the
cause and of its incidents. Here the question was
upon the law of Pennsylvania, as it regarded
land in that State: not the statut, -law, which is
written, but the common law, is shown by the
decisions of her Courts, and modified by usage
and custom, or the peculiar adoption and application.of its principles. Had this case been first
submitted to the Circuit Court, and brought here
by appeal, a decision of the Supreme (;ourt of
the State, in another case, in all respects similar,
would be of the highest authority. And it is fit,
that it should be so, for the sake of uniformity in
the settlement of the law; or else the peculiar
judicial constitution of this country might be pro-.

Jam.

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUIT

v
Daly

T.

3a*"

ductive of the greatest confusion. Suppose the
decision of this Court should be different from
that of the State Court; it is not a case in which,
by the constitution and laws of the Union, this
Court has any superiority that would give itd decision a binding effect. There would, consequently,
be an irreconcilable conflict of decisions. The
decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
must, therefore, be regarded as of the highest authority, and ought to be followed, unless flatly
absurd and unjust.
But, considering the will, independent of the
authority of the decision in the .State Court, it is
obvious that the testator did not mean to provide
fbr the disposftion of his estate, in every event
that might happen, except by the residuary clause
in favour of his son. If he had said, or had
clearly intimated, that he meant in no case to die
ing.estate, so as to let in the heir, this might have
been considered as a pervading intention, that
would influence the interpretation of the will.
But this was not necessary, for the law had
provided an heir, in whose favour the affections
of the testator would coincide with the provisions
of the law. The heir is a favourite of the common law, and is not to be disinherited but by
express words, or by necessary implication. That
implication can only exist where 'there is a plain
intention not to die intestate. But here the inteution was merely to provide for certain persons,
whom the testator, for reasons known only to
himselt chose to consider as objects of his bounty,
in certain events. So far he *meantto restrai'.

517

OF THE UNITED STATES.

his son, and no farther.

From his having dond

18

so, it is impossible to infer an intention to provide

v.
for other persons, or for other events, as there
might be, in a case where there was a manifest JSM
design not to die intestate.
The will must be interpreted. by itself, and thed
it will appear that the testator had in view: (1)
His son, to whom he gives a clear estate tail in
the realty, and an absolute estate in the persontlty,
on certain terms. (2) A. Young, to whom he
gives an annuity of 30 pounds a year, during the
joint lives of himself and the son, or the son's
issue: and to whom, in the event of his surviving
the son, and the son dying without issue, or
issue failing in his lifetime, he gives 400 pofada
in lieu of the annuity, to be paid out of the pry.
ceeds of the sale of his estate. A. Young could,
then, certainly, .take nothing but in the case slmcified of the son dying without issue, or the isstid
failing, in the lifetime of Young. It is put W1
place of the annuity, and, in case of issue, the
annuity is to be continued. (3) The brothers
and sisters of the testator. If the son die, living
A. Young, the right of A. Young is vested: ana
then (i. e. A. Young surviving, the son, and the
son dying without issue) the testator'8 will ig,
that the property shall be sold by A. Yorrg, his
exeoutor, &c. and the proceeds, after payirg iB
400 pounds, to the four brothers and sisters, by
"zme, and their heirs, or such of them as shall
be living at the son's decease. And that this was
meant only of his brothers and sisters, is evident

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1.823.
Dvy,

V.

Jame3.

from the subsequent bequest to them of his perSsonal

estate.

We say, then, that the power to sell was limited
to arise upon the contingency: (1) Of John, the
son, dying without issue in the lifetime of A.
Young, or of the issue failing in the lifetime of A.
Y.; or, (2) Of his dying without isue, living one
or more of the brothers or sisters of the testator.
And that neither of these contingencies- having
happened,the fee, which was in the son by descent,
was discharged from the power, and was devised
by his will,
But, it may be asked, why should the disposition
in favour of the brothers and sisters be made dependent upon the life of A. Young? The answer
is, because it was first and chiefly for the sake of
A. Y. that the sale was to be made; and there is no
more reason, as regards the intention of the testator, for limiting the disposition in case of issue
failing, than in case of the son's dying leaving no
issue. And vet the former is clearly done, and
was indispensable. Suppose J. Bleakley, jun.,
had left a child, who survived A. Y. one day, and
then died. The reversion in fee would then go
to the heir of John, the son, so as to merge and
destroy the estate tail, and all intermediate contingeht estates.a

The contingent limitation is only

good by way of executory devise. J. Bleakley,
jun., took a vested estate tail by the will, and the
reversion in fee by descent. The descent was
immediate, liable to open and let in the power,
f Fearne's Cont. Rem. 343. 353. 7th ed.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

upon the happening of the contingency upon
which the power was to arise. After the failure
of the estate tail, the fee would be in the son and
his heirs, until the power was exercised, no estate
being. given to A. Young. This could only be
done by executory devise.a There is no preceding particular estate to support the remainder.
The fee by descent is no particular estate. It
must, therefore, be considered a contingent limitation, good only by way of executory devise.
As.a contingent remainder, it might be barred by
common recovery, but not as'an executory devise.'
It is, besides, the creation of an estate of freehold, to commence in futuro, by the exercise of
a power collateral to the estate, and, therefore,
also, must be an executory devise. As an executory devise cannot be destroyed by an alteration
of the preceding" limitation, nor barred by' a recovery, to avoid perpetuity, the contingency must
be one to happen within a reasonable time, i. e.
a life or lives in being, and twenty-one years and
a few months thereafter.
Now, let us consider whether it is so limited,
and what the limitation is. Dying without issue,
or failure of issue, legally imports an indefinite
failure of issue, as it respects both personal and
real estate, but especially the latter, " for there
the interest of the heir is concerned, which is always much favoured at law.' 'o In the case of pera 2 Ves. jr. 269.
b Pearne, 419. 423,424. 429.
c Id. 47d.

519
1823.
Daly

V.
James.

CASES IN THE SUPREM4 COURT

1823.
'oO"/

T.
'm

sonal estate, it has indeed been often construed
to mean a dying without issue living at the time
of the death. And in the case of real estate, it
has been sometimes so construed.' But this has
been, only from necessity, to support the limltations over, and effectuate the legal intention of the
testator." And it has therefore never been so construed, where there~.was an express limitation in
the will to the contrary, or of equivalent legal
effect. Where, then, there i§ a limitation sufficient
to maintain and preserve the subsequent dispositions, such implication is unnecessary. And where
there is a limitation expressed, ipconsistent with
such implied limitation, the implication is impossible. Such inconsistency is equally great, .whether the actual limitation is shorter or longer than
the implied limitation. The limitation in this
will is, the dying of J. Bleakley, jun., without
issue, in the lifetime of A. Young: which intludes
his so dying, leaving no issue, or . leaving issue
which fail in the lifetime of A. Young. It is not
a double contingency, but a single contingency,
embracing both events. The limitation, too, is
sufficient to support the ultimate disposition. If
so, there can be no. limitation to dying witbout
issue, &c. The words are: " I give to my cofisin, A. Young, &c. an annuity, &c. during the
joint lives of him, the said A. Young, and my sqn,
J. Bleakley, or his heirs lawfully begottes; but in
a Dansey v. Griffiths,4 Maul. - Seiw. 61. and see 5 Masn. Rp.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

case of the decease of my said son twnout ua
lawf dly 6 egotten, as aforesaid,"&c.
If it be said, that the subsequent words, which
contain the disposition in favour of the brothers
and sisters, are different; " and in case of the decease of my said sofi without such issue," and
ought to be construed a dying without issue living
at the time of his death, I answer, that they
cannot be so interpreted here; because, (1) They
are connected with the antecedent words in the
prior part of the will, "herein after mentioned,
and before any dividend is made of the proceeds
of my said estate ;" and with the words in the
subsequent part, " after deducting out of the proceeds," &c. (2) It would make the bequest to
A. Young depend upon one contingency, and that
to the brothers and sisters upon another; whereas,
they are plainly connected together, and made to
depend upon one contingency. (3) These same
identical words are before used as equivalent to a
failure of issue ; " during the joint lives of him,
the said A. Y., and my son, J. B., or' his heirs
lawfully begotten; but in case of the decease of
my said son without issue," &c.
As a limitation, the life of his brothers and sisters, who were"in esse, would answer equally well
as the life of A. Young. But, it must be admitted, that there is no express limitation of that kind
in the will. -And it would follow, that if there be
not a limitation to the life of A. Y., there is none
at all.
Under this head, :however, I shall
contend.
(1) That the distribution was to be made among
VOL. VIII.

66

52L
1823.
Daly

I.
J

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\

Daly

V.

#m

such of the brothers and sisters as should be living
at the time when the contingency happened:
(2) As none were then living, and A. Young was
dead, there was no object for the exercise of the
power, and, therefore, the power was never brought
into existence.
Such wa:s the opinion of a majority of the
Judges of the State Court; and it is the natural
and obvious reading of the will. The proceeds
are given to the brothers and sisters by name, to
be divided between them in equal proportions,
share and share alike; which imports, that he had
some definite idea, whom it was 'to be divided
amongst. But, if there were any doubt, the bequest of the petsonal estate, which refers to the
former, makes it quite plain. The legal construction is the same; for it cannot be denied, that
heirs is, generally,a word of limitation, and only
descriptive of the quantity of estate meant to be
given. Strike out the words " and their heirs
for ever," and all doubt is aissipated.. Strike out
the words of contingency; " or such of them as
shall be living at the decease of my said son;"
and would not the whole vest in the ancestor, and
the heir take by descent? In either case, 'suppose
one to die in the lifetime of the testator, would
not the legaoy lapse ? But the words "for ever,"
unequivocally stamps the' character of limitation.
The supposition that heirs is to be a wbrd -ofpurchase, in one event only, goes on the ground,
that the same word is to be construed, according
to circ.umstances, in senses entirely different.
That is to "say, that in the 'mind of the testator.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

523

and at the time of making the will, it was understood to be a word both of limitation and of purchase. It would follow, then, that if one of the

1823.

brothers and sisters died in the lifetime of the

James.

testator, the heir would take by purchase. There
could, therefore, be no such thing as a lapsed legacy or devise, if the word heirs be used; and
some new m6de must be invented of describing
the quantity of the estate.
This construction is liable to another objection,
that it strikes out an entire clause. It is manifest
enough, that the testator thought it was real
estate, and, therefore, used the word heirs. He
might well think so, as it was to be real estate up
to a certain point. How this estate was to be regarded, might not have been generally understood
at the time when this will was made. It was,
probably, Lord Hardwicke who first decided, that
land to be converted into money, or money to be
laid out in land, were to be considered " by the
transmutation of a Court of equity."a Besides,
the legatee might, in such case, pethaps, have an
election.b At law, it is still real estate; that is,
supposing A. Young to be either dead, or his legacy
paid. And it deserves to be remarked, that the
testator drops these words, when he speaks of
what he himself deems personal estate.
Our construction is the only reasonable and
practicable one. Heirs, standing alone, is never a
word of purchase; and when it is a word of pura 3 Atk. 256.
b I MAdd. 395.

1 P. Wr.. 130. 3M9.

V.ly

CASES" IN THE SUPREME COURT

-1823. chase, it always means, that the heir is to take in
.
exclusion of the ancestor." Thus, where an estate
DV. is given to the ancestor for life, the heir may take
. by purchase, so that the estates will not unite.
Where the ancestor takes no estate at all, an heir
may take by purchase, as the first taker; the word
heir being then a descriptiope~sona,or individual
designation.
But, supposing it to be otherwise, we must take
one of ,two alternatives: (1) That if some of the
brothers and sisters were living, and some dead,
those who were living, and the heirs of those who
were dead, should take. In that case, the heirs
must take per capita as purchasers. (2) That
if the brothers and sisters were all dead, the heirs
of all would take. In this case, also, they must
take per capita. That could not be the intention. But even as. words of purchase, heir8,
standing alone, and without qualification, is a designation only of the person or persons who, by
law, are heirs. It can never mean children or
issue.' Then, what heir is it to be ? The' heir
by the law of Ireland, of England, or of Pennsylvania ? If restricted to the issue of the brothers
and sisters, (which -is a still fiirther construction,)
and all are to take equally, theii- there might be
every possible variety in the circumstances "and
character of these children, which must have been
unknown to the testator, nd are unknown to the
Court. But there is a flat legal bar to such a cona PoweL .,Dev."236, 237. 239:241.

bTPowell, 242-. 243.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

52.5

struction ; and that is, that the limitation to the 1823.
children would be upon a double contingency,
which is bad.
DVy
But, it is said, that the contingent interest is J"M"
descendible, and would go to the children. Doubtless it might; but that must depend upon the nature of the contingency.
If, then, A. Young being dead, and all the brothers and sisters being dead, there was no object
remaining for the power; did the power itself ever
come into existence ? It never existed in A. Y.,
because he died before the contingency happened;
and, it could not be derived from him to his executors or administrators. But supposing it might;
then, at law, it expired at the end of two years
from the death of J. Bleakley, jun., and before the
deed to Smith." To be sure, equity would not
suffer it to perish, if there were objects for its exercise. But, even in equity, it expired with the
expiration of its object.b Here all the objects
were completely at an end.
It is, -however, contended, that the use is subordinate to the power, and the sale is to be made
at all events. But that makes the end subservient
to the means. The purpose was contingent, and,
therefore, the power was made contingent. No
good purpose is to be answered by prolonging the
a 15 Hen. VI. foL 12.
1 Szgd. Powers, 459, 460. 258. 470. Bradley v. Powell,
Cas. Temp. Talb. 193. Yates v. Phettiplace, 2 Mern. 416.
Tournay v. Tournay, Prec. C 290. Roper v. Radcliffe, 9 Mod.

171.

Croft v. Lee, 4 Yes. jr. 60.

526
x

1823.
Daly

V.
amnes.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

existence of the power. It may, perhaps, only
be meant, that the whole is to be considered as
the personal estate of the testator, and go according to the statute of distributions. The consequence would then be, that he would die intestate. But there is no case which goes so far, and
no reason for it. If it were personal estate at the
death of Bleakley, jun., then it all goes to him
by will; and he surviving A. Young, and the brothers and sisters of the testator, took the whole
absplutely in possession. He would have the
right, of election, and he makes his election by
his will.
Mr. D. B. Ogden, foi the plaintif, "in reply,
argued, that the adjudication in the State Court
had no other authority here, than the opinion of
the same learned men would have upon any other
question of general law. It was not conclusive,
as a res judicata,even in the State Court; and by
what magic could the doctrines on which it was
founded, be considered as conclusive in another forum? A judgment in ejeetment is never conclusive at law; and how can a decision in another suit,
on the same devise, or another devise, be considered as conclusive on a tribunal having concurrent jurisdiction7? The question was not upon the
local law, of which the State Courts are the exclusive expounders; it arose not upon the statute, or the common law of Pennsylvania, (if any
such there be,) but upon that law which is expounded at Westminster and at Washington.
The intention of the testator is the great polar

527

OF THE UNITED STATES.

star in the interpretation of wills.

If there be

ambiguity in the particular words used by the tes-

tator, you may not only look at the general scope
and design of the will, as manifested on its face;
but you may go out of the will, and inquire into
the state of the testator's family, in order to ascertain whether particular persons might probably
be the objects of his bounty." It would be strange,
indeed, if wills were the only writings in which
the necessary imperfection of human language
might not be supplied by a view of all those extrinsic considerations which may be supposed to have
influenced the writer's mind, and caused him to use
words in one sense or another. It appears in the
case, that the testator had just left his relations in
Ireland, his native country, where his brothers and
sisters, and their children, then were, the latter
being of age, or nearly so, and that his will was
made in London, on his way to this, his adopted
country. Next to his son, his brothers and sisters
and nephews and nieces, were probably nearest
his heart.
It is admitted, that the son took an estate tail.
The question has been supposed to be, what became of the reversion on the failure of issue ?
But whether it descended on the son, or was devised to the testator's brothers and sisters is immaterial ; because, the question is, whether the
fee, in whomsoever it may now be, is still subject
to the power of sale created by the will. He
might charge the reversion after the estate tail
aI Ball4-Bcattu..

431.

1823.
Daly

v.

James.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182.
\but
V.
J'amm

had expired. - And he has not only empowered,
ordered and directed A.'Young, his executors,
&c. to sell. His object, doubtless, was, to convert the real property into money, in order that it
might go to his relations in Irelaad, who. would,
probably, never come to this country. If a
testator says, " I will my heir shall sell the land,
and does not mention for what purpose, it is in
the breast of the heir at law whether he will sell
it .or no, &c. But when a testator appoints an
executor to sell, his office shows, that it is intended
to be turned into personal assets, without leaving
any resulting trust in the heir."a
It is apparent, that the testator considered himself as disposing of personal property. The subsequent legacy of his personal estate shows, that
he considered it as one common fund. It is a
mistake to suppose, that Lord Hardwicke established,.for the first time, in 1746, the rule of
equity, that land devised to be sold and converted
into money, shall be considered as personal. property. Such had always been the dQctrine of the
Court of Chancery. The order to sell is absolute, not coupled with any. condition whatsoever,
nor depending on the lives of his brothers and
sisters. If nothing had been said about the 'distribution of the proceeds, they would go of course
to the personal representatives. The subsequent
clause is merely intended to describe how the
proceeds were to be divided, and not to indicato
the quantity of interest in what had thus become
a 2.4tk. 56.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

529
personal property by its very destination before it 1823.
had been actually sold. As to the word heirs, it %."
Daly
must surrender its ordinary technical meaning in
V.
order to subserve the intention. And it is clear, -Tm
that it may be a word of purchase wherever it is
necessary for that purpose. Thus, it sometimes
means ckildren, and sometimes issue indefinitely.a
If the words " their heirs," were stricken out of
this clause, theproperty being personal, would be
vested absolutely in the brothers and sisters. The
words, therefore, must have been added for some
other purpose than to-create a limitation. AR the
legatees, "except one, and probably that one, were
alive atthe death of the testator. There was, then,
no lapsed legacy. There was a clear contingent
remainder to the brothers and sisters, which was
transmissible to their representatives. The w6rds,
"their heirs for ever,!' were intended as words of
purchase, an&to substitute the children or grandchildren for the original parents, in order to effect
the great intention of the testator, which was, to
keep the estate in his own family. He supposed he
had prevented his son from aliening it by the entail, and:that he had provided for the case of his
son's dying without issue, by the-direction to sell,
and the disposition of the proceeds. All his intentions are to be frustrated by the construction
contended for on the other side.
As to the supposed difficulties about the distribution of the proceeds among those who are entitled, that question is not now before thq Court.
a Fearne, 466.
VOL. VIII.

67

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
ODaly
v.
Jaies.

It is sufficient that there is an object for the present exercise of the power. It is immaterial in
what proportions those who are entitled are to
take. When they shall file their bill on the equity
side of the Court, it will be time enough to consider that question.
The case cited from the Year Book, 15Hen.VJI.
has nothing to do with the present question. That
was a feoffment, on condition that the feoffee, who
was the party in interest, should aliene ; and not
the case of a trust. The time within which thc
power was to be executed is immaterial, it being
merely incidental to the general object of the testator. • Suppose the executor of A. Young, and
all the others by whom the power was to have
been executed, had neglected or refused; arc
the cestuis que trust to be disappointed ? Woulu
not a Court of equity compel the execution, or
supply the defective execution ? And if so, will
it not confirm what has been already done ? It
may indeed be admitted, that the trust will not
be enforced, or the execution of it confirmed, if
the object for which it was created no longer exists.
But here the first object was to convert the real
property into money, and then to distribute it.
But if the property is to be considered as real
estate, it would vest in him who was heir at law
of the original donor, at the time of the expiration of the particular estate. J. Bleakley, jun.,
had indeed a right to dispose of this reversionary
interest, but he never exercised that right. There

OF THE. UNITED STATES.

is nothing in his will showing an intention to devise it.o

531
1823
Daly
V.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion Jame.
of the Court; and, after stating the case, proceeded .1rdh I .
as follows :
The material question to be decided is, whether
the power given to A. Young, his executors and
administrators, to sell the real estate of the testator,
was legally exercised ? If it was not, then the
plaintiff in error, who claims under a sale made
by the executor of Young, acquired no title under
it, and the judgment below is right.
It was contended by the counsel for the defendant, that by the death of Young, as well as of the
brothers and sisters of the testator, in the lifetime
of John Bleakley, the son, the devises to them to
arise out of the power to sell never took effect;
and, consequently, there being no person in existence, at the death of the son, to receive the
proceeds of the sale, or any part of them, the
power was unduly exercised. The premises upon
which the above argument is founded, as well as
the conclusion drawn from them, being controverted by the counsel on the other side, our inquiries will be confined to those two points.
With respect to the devise of the 400 pounds
to A. Young, a majority of the Court is of opinion,
that by the words, as well as from the obvious intention of the testator, that sum was not to be
raised except in the event of the death of John
a IMan,-. Desc. 110. 153

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Daly

V.
Jmes.

Bleakley, the son, without issue, in the lifetime of
During the joint lives of the son, or his
issue, and Young, the latter was to receive an annuity of 30 pounds out of the rents and profits of

SYoung.

'the real estate. But if the son should die without
issue in the lifetime of the said Young, the annuity
was, in that event, to cease, and the 400 pounds
was to be raised for his use, out of the proceeds
of the real estate, when the same should be sold,
according to the intention of the will, as thereafter
mentioned. The contingency on which .the devise of the 400 pounds was to take effect, is in no
respect connected With thaton which the devise of
the proceeds to the brothers and sisters was to
depend. The 400 pounds is expressly given in
lieu of the annuity, *incase Young should suivive
the son, without issue, in which event it was to
cease.
The contingency upon which'the devise of.he
proceeds of the real estate to the brothers and
sisters, was to take effect, was the death of the
son without issue; and since it was possible that
the particular estate of the son might endure beyond the life of Young, the power to sell, for the
benefit of the brothers and sisters, is extended to
his executors and administrators. It is. true, that
by the clause which gives the power to sell, taken
independent of the devise to Young, it would
seem as if the 400 pounds was, at all events, to
be first deducted out of the proceeds of the sale,
and paid to him, in the same event a§ the residue
was to be paid to the brothers and sisters, that is,
on the death of the son without issue. But the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

two clauses must of necessity be taken in connexion with each other, the one- as containing the
bequest to Young, and the contingency upon
which it was to take effect; and the other, as
pointing out the fund out of which it was to be
satisfied. If the former never took effect, it is clear
that the latter was relieved from the burthen imposed
upon it.
A very
good reason appears for making the
devise of the 400 pounds to Young, to depend upon
hissu'rviving the son without issue, since it would
be in that event only that he would want it; the
annuity, which it was intended to replace, continuing,.until that event happened. - But no reason
is perceived why the devise over to the brothers
and sisters of the testator, or the execution of
the power for their benefit, should have been
made to depend on the same event; a trustee to
sell being provided in the executors of Young, in
case he should die before the power could be executed.
Having shown, it is believed, that the devise of
the 400 pounds to Young never took effect, in consequence of his death in the lifetime of John
Bleakley, the son, it becomes important to inquire,
whether the devise to the brothers and sisters of
the testator failed, in consequence of their having
all died in the lifetime of the son. The operative
words of the will are, "I give the proceeds thereof
[of his real estate] to my said brothers and sisters,
and their heirs, for ever, or such of them as shall
be living at the decease of my son, to be divided

538
182.
Daly

V.

Jame

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

between them in equal proportions, share and
Sshare alike."
Daly
The Court has felt considerable difficulty in
v.
James. construing the above clause, with a view to the intention of the testator, to be collected from the
whole of the will, and of the circumstances stated
in the special verdict. Some of the Judges are of
opinion, that the devise is confined, both by the
words and by thb apparent intehtion of the testator, to the brothers and sisters who should be
living at the death of the son without issue, considering the word "heirs" as a word of limitation,
according to its general import, and that there is
no evidence of an intention in the testator to give
the part of a deceased brother or sister to his or
her children, which ought to control the legal
meaning of that word, when used as it is in this
clause. On the contrary, they think, that the use
of it in the devise of the proceeds of the real
estate, and the omission of it in the devise of the
personal estate, and yet declaring that the latter
is to be divided amongst his brothers and sisters,
with the proceeds of his real estate as therein before directed to be divided, strongly indicates the
intention of the testator to give the proceeds of
the real estate to the same persons who were to
take the personal estate. Others of the Judges
are of opinion, that an intention to give the proceeds of the real estate to the children of a deceased brother or sister, as representing their ancestor, is fairly to be collected from the will,
which strongly intimates that the testator did not
I823.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

535

mean to die intestate, as to any part of his real 1823.
or personal estate.
Daly
V.
Upon a question of so much doubt, this Court,
Jmnm
adjudicathe
to
which always listens with respect
tions of the Courts of the different States, where
they apply, is disposed, upon this point, to acquiesce in the decision of the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, in the case of Srnith's lessee v.
Folwell, (1 Bin. 546.) that the word heirs is to
be construed to be a word of limitation, and, consequently, that the devise to the brothers and sisters failed to take effect by their deaths in the
lifetime of the son.
Whether the conclusion to which that Court
came, and which was pressed upon us by the
plaintiff's counsel, that the contingencies on which
the power to sell was to arise, having never happened, the sale under tme power was without authority, is well founded in a Court of law, need
not be decided in this case, because the majority
of the Court are of opinion, that, by the express
words of the will, the sale was limited to the period of two years after the decease of John Bleakley, the son. The circumstance of time was no
doubt considered by the testator as being of some
consequence, or else it is not likely that he would
so have restricted the exercise of the power. But
whether. it was so or not, such was the will and
pleasure of the creator of the power, and that will
could only be fulfilled by a precise and literal exercise of the power. The trustee acts, and could
act, only in virtue of a special authority conferred
upon him by the will; he must act, then, in the way,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. and under the restrictions which accompany the
\'.v ' authority. If an adjudication were wanted to
Daly
V. sanction so-plain and obvious a principle of law,
Jales. it is to be found in a case reported in the Year
Book, 15 Hen. VII. 11, 12.
Under what circumstances a Court of equity
might relieve, in case the trustee should refuse tc
exercise the power within the prescribed period,
or ,should exercise the same after that period, need
not be adverted to in this case, since this is a
question arising in a case purely at law.
The sale in this case, then, having been made
about eighteen years after the death of John
Bleakley, the son, the trustee acted without authority, and the sale and conveyance was absolutely void at law.
Mr. Justice JorisoN. I have no hesitation in
conceding, that if all the objects had failed, for
which the power in this will was created, the power
itself ceased, both at law, and in equity. Those
objects were,
1. The raising of the legacy of 400 pounds for
Young'
2. The sale and distribution of the testator's
estate among his own relatives.
If neither of these objects remained to be effected, the power, under which the plaintiff makes
title, was at an end.
The words on which the legacy depends are
these: " but in case of the decease of my said
son, without issue, as aforesaid, in the lifetime of the
said Archibald Young, then the said annuity is to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cease; and in lieu thereof, I give and bequeath
unto the said A. Y., and his assigns, the sum of

400 pounds sterling, payable out of the proceeds
of my real estate, when the same is sold and disposed of according to the intention of this my will
herein after mentioned, and before any dividend
is made of my said estate."
The question which this clause presents is, whether the legacy was given upon the single contingency of the son's death without issue, or upon
the double contingency of his death without issue.
in the lifetime of A. Y.
This question appears to me to be settled by
the testator himself; for in a subsequent part of
the will, speaking of this same legacy, and of
course with reference to the clause bequeathing it,
he says, " the sum of 400 pounds sterling, herein
before given and bequeathed to the said A. Y.,

immediately on the decease of my said ot
without issue." The testator, then, has attached
this construction, to his own words; and that the
clause containing this bequest will well admit of
that construction is obvious; for there is no necessity for joining the first member of the sentence,
which contains the double contingency, to the last
member, which contains the bequest. And the
effect of the will, without this connexion, (which
I cannot but think forced and unnecessary,) will
be, to give the pecuniary legacy absolutely on the
event of the son's death without issue, but at-the
same time to declare, that the annuity should no
longer run on, whenever this bequest took effect.
This would literally be giving it in lieu of the anVoL. VIII.

68

1823.
'-"-'

Day
D,

Ja

"

CASES LN TIE SUPREME COURT

1823.

nuity, and would fully satisfy those words in the

Daly 'will.

Da.

.

Indeed, this construction appears irresistible,
when we consider another part of the will.
The power to sell is extended to the executors
and administrators of A. Y. They, therefore,
were authorized to sell, in the event of the death
of the son without issue, although he should survive A.-Y. Yet, we find the testator, when obviously contemplating the event of the son's surviving
Young, expressly directing the payment of this
legacy, before the proceeds should be distributed
among his devisees over. This could only be consistent with a bequest upon the single contingency
of the son's death without issue, independently of
Young'p survivorship.
Nor is there the least ground for contending,
that this bequest is upon a contingency too remote,
since the sale and devise over are expressly limited
to take effect upon the death of the son, thereby
restricting the generality of the words issue and
heirs, so as to mean issue living at his death.
This, too, is consistent with those acknowledgments of the testator of a debt of gratitude to A.
Y., and not only of a debt to accrue, but of a subsisting debt. The annuity is given in presenti;
and so is its substitute, the legacy. The words are,
" 1 give and bequeath," thus vesting a present interest, although the payment is deferred to a future
time and event. The views of the testator are
easily explained : if his son or his issue took the
estate, his bounty to Young was to be limited to
the annuity. But if it should go over to his colla-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

539

teral kindred, the testator enlarges his bounty, 1823.
and gives this substitute for the annuity, at the
Daly
same time that he frees his estate from a charge
V.
Jam"
sale.
the
that would embarrass
Nor can I possibly admit the doctrine, that the
power to sell was either at law, or in equity, limited
to the duration of two years after the death of the
son without issue. The words are, "thienIdirect
and order my said cousin,- A. Y., his executors
and administrators, to sell and dispose of my real
estate within two years after the decease of my said
son." Here the words are clearly imperative, and
their effect is, both to confer the power generally,
and to exact the execution of it in two years. The
intention of the testator must prevail, both at law
and in equity, in construing his words; and when
they will admit of a construction which will make
the power commensurate with the views of the
testator in creating it, I hold that to be the true
construction both in law and equity. It is only
when the power given admits not of this latitude
by construction, that the aid of Courts of equity
is resorted to, in order to carry into effect the
views of the testator. By possibility, the executors of A. Young may have been minors, or may
not have proved his will until the two years had
expired, or a sale during that time may have been
stayed by injunction, or by the want of purchasers;
and it would be difficult to show why, in any one
of these events, the power should have ceased.
Certainly no reason can be extracted from the
provisions-of the will, whence an intention could
be inferred to restrict the power to sell to the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

period of two years; Every thing favours the
contrary conclusion. For whose benefit was this
injunction to sell within the specified period imposed upon the executor? Clearly for that of the
brothers and sisters, in order that, under it, they
may have compelled the executor to proceed to
sale within the time limited. It would be strange,
then, if a provision so clearly intehded for their
interests, should have put it in the power of the
executor, either wilfully, or by laches, to defeat
their interests, and let in the heir at law.
This is not the case of a mere naked power: it is
a power coupled with a trust. The'executor was
to sell, that he might possess himself of the value
in money, and distribute it among the cestuis que
trust. •In such cases, it has been well observed,
that "the substantial part is to do.the thing," and
that "powers 6f this kind have a favourable construction in law, and are not resembled to conditions, which are strictly expounded."
I am, therefore, of opinion, that the words
creating this power will Well admit of being construed into a general devise of the power, and
that the object intended to be answered, necessarily
requires that construction.
The dictum cited from the Year Books, therefore, (besides that it has not been very correctly
translated,) has no application to this case; since
it supposes the actual restriction under the will,
which I deny to be imposed in the present instance,
upon the true construction of its words.
Being, therefore, of opinion, that both the legacy to Young, and the power to sell, subsisted

OF THE UNITED STATES.

at the date of the sale to the plaintiff, these views
of the case are sufficient to sustain the sale to the
plaintiff; and the subsequent questions would
arise, only upon the distribution, of the remainder
of the purchase money, after satisfying the legacy. Nevertheless, I will make a few remarks
upon that part of the will which relates to the devise over to the testator's family, since it serves
to elucidate, by another application, the principle
upon which I have formed my opinion respecting
the legacy to A. Yoking.
On the subject of the devise over to his brothers
and sisters, the testator has again been his own
expositor. It is very clear, that if the words, "or
such of-them as shall be living at the decease of
my said son," stood alone and unexplained, the
relative them might be applied grammatically with
more propriety to the word " heirs," than to the
words " brothers and sisters ;" and thus, perhaps,
give those words the effect of words of purchase.
But the testator himself gives these words a distinct application, in the latter part of his will, when
disposing of his personal estate; concerning
which he says, that it shall be "divided among
my brotlters and sisters, with the proceeds of my
real estate, as herein before directed tobe divided."
Under the words 'here used by the testator, it is
clear, that the brothers and sisters only could take,
and not the brothers' and sisters' children, thus
restricting the word " heir" to its natural and appropriate signification; from which, it can be converted into a word of purchase, only by the clear
and controlling intent of the testator. This

1823.
Daly

V.
Jame&

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'

'"~~

construction is further supported by those words
which require a distribution of the proceeds of the
real estate equally, share and share alike, to the
legatees; a distribution which could not take place
per stirpes, or in the event of one or more brothers surviving, and the death of the rest, leaving
issue, living at the death of the son.
On this point, therefore, I concur with the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania; and only regret
that I cannot concur both with that Court and this
on the other bequest.
Upon the question so solemnly pressed upon
this Court in the argument, how far the decision
of the Court bf Pennsylvania ought to have been
considered as obligatory on this Court, I would be
understood as entertaining the following views:
As precedents entitled to high respect, the decisions of the State Courts will always be considered ; and in all cases of local law, we acknowledge
an established and uniform course rf decisions -of
the State Courts, in the respective States, as the
law of this Court; that is to say, that such decisions
will be as obligatory upon this Court as they would
be acknowledged to be in their own Courts. But
a single decision on the construction of a will,
cannot be acknowledged as of binding efficacy,
however it may be respected as a precedent. In
the present instance, I feel myself sustained in my
opinion upon the legacy to A. Y., by the opinion
of one of the three learned Judges who composed
the State Court.
Judgment affirmed.

