CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

INS.
The Frances
and Eliza.
(INsTANCE COURT.

The

NoN-iTzRcoursE ACT.]

FRANCES AND ELIZA.

COATES,

Claimant.

If a British ship come from a foreign poft (not British) to a port of
the United States, the continuity of the voyage is not broken, and
the vessel is not liable to forfeiture, under the act of April 18th,
1818,'c. 65. by touching at an intermediate British closed port,
from necesity, and m order to procure provisions, without trading
there.

APPEAL from the District Court of Louisiana.
This was an .allegation of forfeiture, against the
British ship Frances and Eliza, in the Court below, tbi a breach of the act of Congress, of the
18th of April, .1818, c. 65, the first section of
which is.in these words: "That from and after
the 30th day of September next, the ports of the
United States shall be and remain closed against
every vessel, owned wholly, or in part, by a subject\or subjects of his Britannic Majesty, coming
or arriVing from any port or place in a colony or
territory of his Britannic Majesty, that is or shall
be, by the ordinary laws of navigation and trade,
closed against vessels owned .by citizens of the
United States; and such vessel, that, in the course
of the voyage, shall have touched at, or cleared
out from, any port or place in a colony or territory of Great Britain, which shall or may be, by
the ordinary laws of navigation and trade aforesaid, open to vessels owned by citizens of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

399

United States, shall, nevertheless, be deemed to 1823.
have come from the port or place in the colony or The Franrw
territory of Great Britain, closed, as aforesaid, and Efiza.
against vessels owned by citizens of the United
States, from which such vessel cleared out and
sailed, before touching at and clearing out from
an intermediate and open port or place as aforesaid; and every such vessel, so excluded from the
ports of the United States, that shall enter, or
attempt to enter the same, in violation -of this act,
shall, with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, together with the cargo on board such vessel, be
forfeited to the United States."
The libel set forth, in the words of the act,
that the Frances and Eliza was owned, wholly or
in part, by subjects of his Britannic Majesty, and
had come-from the port of Falmouth, in the island
of Jamaica, a colony of his Britannic Majesty,
which port was closed against citizens of the United States, and that she attempted to enter the
port of New-Orleans, in the United States, contrary to the provisions of the act before recited.
To this libel, William Coates, master of the vessel, put in an answer, denying the allegations in
the libel, and claiming her as the property of
Messrs. Herring & Richardson, of London. The
material facts appearing on record, are these:
The Frances and Eliza sailed from London, in
the month of February, 1819, for South America,
having on board about 170 men for the service of
the patriots. They arrived at Margaritta, in April,
where the troops were disembarked. The vessel
remained on the coast of Margaritta until Novem-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182o3.

ber, when Captain Coates, by order of Mr. Gold,

The Frances agent
'

and Eliza.

of the owners, took command of her.

Captain Storm, who originally was the master,
died on the passage, and was succeeded by the
first mate, who died at Margaritta. Captain
Coates was directed by the agent to proceed with
the Frances and Eliza to New-Orleans, and there
to procure freight to England, or the continent.
The death of the agent, in the month of October,
obliged him to remain some time at Margaritta,
to arrange his affairs in the best manner he could.
Having a scanty supply of salt provisions, and
being without fresh provisions, which were not to
be had at Margaritta, he did not sail from that port
until the 8th. of November. Proceeding on the
voyage, he met an American schooner, off the
west end of St. Domingo, the master of which
supplied him with a cask of beef. He had at this
time, 29 souls on board; and in the prosecution
of the voyage, being off the coast of Falmouth,
in the island of Jamaica, the Frances and Eliza
hove to, within four or five miles of the shore, and
the master went into Falmouth in his boat for provisions, of which they were much in want, having
only three days' supply on board, and to get his
name endorsed on the ship's register: on the day
following, he returned with a small supply, which
being insufficient, he went again the next morning,
to endeavour to increase his siock, and succeeded
in getting enough to enable him to proceed to
New-Orleans. That he landed one passenger at
Falmouth; and took two from thence to NewOrleans: the passenger landed, was a physician,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

who had sailed from London with the troops, but 1823.
left the service in distress, and took his passage in The Fraces
the Frances and Eliza to New-Orleans. When at and Eliza.
Falmouth, he found his professional prospects
there favourable, 'and determined to remain, and
George Glover, a mariner, had leave of the agent
of the owners to work his passage from Margaritta to New-Orleans. Upon leaving Margaritta,
the master took with him a letter of recommendation from the agent of the owners, to R. D. Shepherd & Co. of New-Orleans, which letter he presented on his arrival. When he had proceeded
about half way up the Mississippi, the Frances and
Eliza was hailed by an officer on board the revenue
cutter, the answer was, that she was from Jamaica;
the captain being asked " what he was doing off
Jamaica," answered, that he " went in to get his
name endorsed on the register, and to obtain a
freight for England ;" to which the officer replied,
that he was under the necessity of seizing his vessel for a breach of the navigation act; he then
said he went in to get provisions.
Upon this testimony the District Court condemned the vessel, as forfeited to the United
States; and the claimant appealed to this Court.
Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the appellant, argued, Feb. 24th.
that the vessel, on sailing from Margaritta, was
really bound to New-Orleans, and not to Falmouth, in the island of Jamaica; that even supposing she was bound to Falmouth, it was a mere
alternative destination, depending on her being
able to procure freight there; and that, as she in
VOL. VIII.

51

402

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

fact embraced the other branch of t66 alternative,
i
and went to New-Orleans, this must be considered
The Francis
and Eliza. as her original destination. That the real object
of touching at Falmouth was to obtain provisions,
of which she was in want, and not to procure
freight; and that even if touching there for the
purpose of procuring freight, could bring her
within the operation of the act, it was impossible
to attribute that effect to a mere touching to get
necessary provisions. That the act, according
both to its policy, and its true legal construction,
makes the clearing out, and sailing from a prohibited port. the criterion of illegality, and not the
mere touching at it for whatever purpose; and
that the touching at Falmouth, be its purpose what
it might, did not make it the terminus a quo of the
supposed illegal voyage; and, consequently, did
not bring the vessel within the purview of the act.
He also insisted on the defectiveness of the libel,
in alleging an attempt to enter a port of the United
States, when, in fact, the vessel did actually enter.
1823.

The Attorney GeneraZ, contra, insisted, that
the allegation was sufficient to support the sentence, in stating, that the vessel " attempted to
enter the port of New-Orleans, contrary to the
provisions of the act," &c. She did actually enter
the river, and was attempting to get up to NewOrleans. But an attempt is included, necessarily,
within the actual entry, and the prohibition is in
the alternative, "shall enter, or attempt to enter."
As to the British port, from which the vessel came
or arrived, the statute does not require, that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

4.Q

vessel should actually enter infra fauces portus, 1823.
or that she should take a cargo on board in the '-.
.9_The

Frances

closed port.

To insist upon an actual entry of and Eliza.

the harbour, or an actual trading, would make the
law wholly ineffectual. The first destination of
the vessel was evidently to Falmouth, there to seek
for a cargo. Failing in that, her destination was
changed to the United States. Such a course of
niavigation is manifestly against the policy of the
law, which was intended to cut -off all trade or intercommunication with the closed ports. The
legislative intention must be regarded in the con7
stfuction of laws of trade and revenue, and it is
the habit of all maritime Courts to regard it."
Mr. Harper,for the appellant, in reply, insisted, that the object of the act being to counteract
the exclusive system of Great Britain in favour of
her colonial monopoly, and the carrying trade
connected with it, the circumstance, that a vessel,
in the course of a voyage not prohibited, touched
at a.prohibited port, was not sufficient to bring it
within the mischief intended to be avoided. The
language of the act is, "coming or arriving from a
port,'' &c. This cannot apply to a port where
she never entered. She never came to anchor,
but stood on and off. The port of Falmouth
could not, therefore, be regarded as the terminus
a quo of the voyage. The prohibitions of this
statute are not like the belligerent prohibitions to
enter a blockaded port, and the intention of the
a The Eleanors .?-rx Ad= Rep. 158.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

master has nothing to do with it. Even supposing
he went to seek for a cargo, he would not
and Eliza. have brought it to the United States, and, consequently, did not go for the purpose of-violating
the law. The criterion of a breach of the law is
the clearing out and sailing from a closed port.
The touching at an intermediate open port, will
not, certainly, break the continuity of a voyage
which has been commenced at an interdicted port.
But then it must have been actually commenced
there; and, in this case, the terminus a quo was an
innocent port.
1823.

v
that
The Frances

March 5th.

Mr. Justice DUVALL delivered the opinion of
the Court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded
as follows:
In the argument of this cause, it was contended
by the Attorney General, that touching at Falmouth, with the intention to get freight there,
and coming from that port to a port in the United
States, brought the Frances and Eliza within the
operation of the navigation act; it being the policy of the law to prevent all communication between vessels of the United States and British
ports, which were closed against them. On behalf of the owners, it was contended, that if the
Frances and Eliza was bound to Falmouth, it was
a mere alternative destination, depending on her
being able to get freight there; and that as she
in fact embraced the other branch of the alternative, and went to New-Orleans, this must be considered as her original destination.
If the destination of the Frances and Eliza,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

from Margaritta to New-Orleans, was real, not

405
183.

colourable; and if the touching at Falmouth was

for the purpose of procuring provisions, of which and Eliza.
the ship's crew was really in want, there was not
a violation of the navigation act. The evidence
in the cause seems to justify the conclusion, that
her real destination was to New-Orleans. The
order of Mr. Gold, agent of the owners, to the
master, to take command of the vessel and proceed to New-Orleans, and there to endeavour to
procure a freight to England or the continent;
the letter of recommendation from John Guya,
merchant, to Messrs. R. D. Shepherd & Co. requesting their aid to the captain to accomplish that purpose, taken in connexion with the
circumstance of Glover's taking his passage in
the vessel, with the leave of the agent, from Margaritta to New-Orleans, establish the fact in a.
satisfactory manner. It appears to have been understood, by all who had any concern with the
vessel, that her destination was to New-Orleans.
The Frances and Eliza did not enter the port
of Falmouth, but stood off and on, four or five
miles from the harbour, for a feiv days, during
which time the master went on shore to get provisions, of which he was in want. Whether he
endeavoured to procure freight there, is a fact not
ascertained by the testimony. It is certain that
he did not obtain it, because it is admitted that
the vessel sailed in ballast to New-Orleans. His
real object in going on shore at Falmouth, appears
to have been to procure provisions, of which the
ship's crew were much in want. And there is no

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

evidence of any act done by him, which can be
n
construed into a breach of the act concerning naThe Frances
and Eiiza. vigation. The policy of that act, without doubt,
was to counteract the British colonial system
of navigation; to prevent British vessels from
bringing British goods from the islands, in exclusion of vessels of the United States, and to place
the vessels of the United States on a footing of
reciprocity with British vessels. The system of
equality was what was aimed at. The landing a
passenger there, who casually got employment,
and for that reason chose to remain on the island ;
and the taking in two passengers there, one of
which was a boy and a relative, and the other
taken, passage free, to New-Orleans, are not
deemed to be acts in contravention of the true
construction of the navigation act.
The logbook was supposed to furnish some suspicious appearances, but, on examination, was
found to contain no material fact which could
govern in the decision.
It is the unanimous opinion of the Court, that
the sentence of the District Court ought to be reversed, and that the property be restored to the
claimant.
*Decree reversed.
1823.

