CASES IN THE SUPREME. COURT

1823.
launt

V. .

outfit of the privateer Irresistible was illegal, upon
the principles already established by this Court,
the property of the Nereyda remains in his ma-

Rousmier. jesty the King of Spain, and ought to be restored

accordingly.

The decree of the Circuit Court is,

therefore, reversed, and the Nereyda is ordered to

be restored to the libellant, with costs of suit.
Decree reversed.

[CHAffcEarY.

LETTERL OF ATTORLNEY.)

HUNT V. ROUSMAXIER's

Administrators.

A lettet of attorney may, in general. be revoked by the party maklin
it, and is revoked by his death.
Where it forms a part of a contract, and is a security for the performance of any act, it is usually made irrevocable in terms, or if
not so made, is deemed irrevocable in law.
But a power of attorney, though irrevocable during the life of the
party, becomes (at law) extinct by his death.
But if the power be coupled with an interest, it survives the person
-giving it, and may be executed after his death.
To constitute a power coupled with an interest, there must be an interest in the ting itself,and not merely in the execution of the power.
How far a Court of equity, will compel the specific execution of a
contract, intended to be secured by an irrevocable power of attorney, which was revoked by operatidn of law on the death of the
party.
The general rule, both at law, and in equity, is, that parol testimony
. is hot admissible to vary a written instrument.
But, in cases of fraud and mistake, Courts of equity will relieve.
1B seems, that a Court of equity will relieve in a case of mistake of

law merely.

OF- THE UNITED STATES.

'175

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Rhode 1823.
Island.
Hunt
V.
The original bill, filed by the appellant, Hunt,
maue
stated, that Lewis Rousmanier, the intestate of
the defendants, applied to the plaintiff, in January,
1820, for.the loan of 1450 dollars, offering to give,
in addition to his notes, a bill of sale, or a mortgage of his interest in the brig Nereus, then at
sea, as collateral security for the repayment of the
money. The sum rbquested was lent; and, on
the 11th of January, the said Rousmanier executed two notes for the amount; and, on the 15th
of the same month, he executed a power of attorney, authorizing the plaintiff to make and execute
a bill of sale of three fourths of the said vessel to
himself, or to any other person; and, in the event
of the said vessel, or her freight, being lost, to
collect the money which should become due on a
policy by which the vessel and freight were insured. This instrument contained, also, a proviso,
reciting, that the power was given for collateral
security for the payment of the notes already mentioned, and was to be void on their payment; on
the failure to do whichj the plaintiff was to pay the
amount thereof, and all expenses, out of the proceeds of the said property, and to return the residue to the said Rousmanier.
The bill .farther stated, that on the 21st of
March, 1820, the plaintiff lent to the said Rousmanier the additional sum of 700 dollars, taking
his note for payment, and a similar power to dispose of his interest in the schooner Industry, then
also at-sea. The bill then charged, that on the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823 ,
L

Hunt

6th of May, 1820, the said Rousmanier died insolvent, having paid only 200 dollars on the said

V.
notes. The plaintiff gave notice of his claim;
Rousmanier. and, on the return of the Nereus and Industry,

took possession of them, and offered the intestate's
interest in them for sale. The defendants forbad
the sale; and this bill was brought to compel them
to join in it.
The defendants demurred generally, and the
Court sustained the demurrer; but gave the plaTntiff leave to amend his bill.
The amended bill stated, that it was expressly
agreed between the parties, that Rousmanier was
to give specific security on the Nereus and- Industry ; and that he offered to execute a mortgage on
them, That counsel was consulted on the subject, who advised, that a power of attorney,- such
as was actually, executed, should be taken in preference to a mortgage, because it was equally valid
and effectual as a security, and would prevent the
necessity -of changing the papers of the vessels,
or of taking possession of them on their arrival
in port. The powers were, accordingly, executed,
with the full belief that they would, and'with the
intention that they should, give the plaintiff asffull
and perfect security as would be given by a deed
of mortgage. The bill prayed, that the defendants might be decreed to join in a sale of the interest of their intestate in the Nereus and Industry, or to sell the same themselves, and pay out of
the proceeds the debt due to the plaintiff. To
this amended bill, also, the defendants demurred,
and on argument the demurrer was sustained,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and the bill dismissed. From this decree, the
plaintiff appealed to this Court.

1823.
Hunt
V.

The cause was argued at the last term.
Mr. Weatnm, for the appellant, stated, that the
question in this case wds, whether, under the agreement meritioned in the original and amended bill,
by which the plaintiff was to have a specific security on certain vessels belonging to the defendants'
intestate, for the repayment df a loan of money made
to him in his lifetime by the plaintiff, a Court of
equity will compel the defendants to give effect to
that security, by joining in a sale of the vessels,
or in any other manner.
That the original intention and contract of the
parties, was to create a permanent collateral security on the vessels, in the nature of, or equivalent
to, a mortgage, is explicitly averred in the bill, and,
of course, admitted by the demurrer. But it is
supposed by the Court below, that they have failed
to give effect to this their intention and contract,
not from any mistake of fact, or accident, but from
a mistake of law, in taking a letter of attorney
with an irrevocable power to sell, instead of an absolute or conditional bill of sale. It is said, that
this power, though irrevocable during the lifetime
of the intestate, was revoked on his death by operation of law, not being a power coupled with an
interest in the thing itself, but only coupled with
an interest in the execution of the power, which is
supposed to expire with the death of the party
creating it, in the same manner as a mere naked
VOL. VMI.

23

Roumaxuer.
March ist,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

-

1823.
Hunt

V.
qousmanier.

power; and it is, therefore, concluded, that this is
not a case where a Court of equity willrelieve.
1. But, it is conceived, that this conclusion proceeds upon the idea, that the original contract
between the parties was entirely merged and extinguished in the execution of the instruments
which were executed, and which, by the accident
of the death of one party, have turned out to be
insufficient in point of law to give effect to that
contract. Here was no mistake of law in the formation of the oiiginal contract. The law was
fully understood in respect to all the facts on
which the contract was founded. The loan, and
the terms on which it was granted, were lawful;
the intestate was the owner of the vessels, and
legally competent to hypothecate them for his just
debts; he did actually contract to give the plaintiff a specific, permanent lien upon them, as collateral security for the payment of the notes. The
mistake is not in the facts, nor the law, nor in
the contract, but in the remedy upon the contract.
It was not necessary that the contract should be
reduced to writing at all, or evidenced by any written instrument, for it is not within the statute of
frauds, like an agreement for the sale of lands, &c.
There was a complete legal contraot, but, by the
mistake of the parties, the mode selected f6r its
execution is defective at law. This contract still
subsists in full force, and is not extinguished and
discharged by the writings, which have turned out
to be inadequate means of giving effect to it. The
contract was not for apower to sell, but for a specific security; not for a pledge of the property

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which was to expire on the death of the party,
but for a permanent lien upon it.

It is an unques-

1823.
Hut

tionable rule of law, that all previous negotiations
V.
are extinguished and discharged by the coitract ROum r.
itself; but, the legal and just import of this rule
-is, that where the parties have definitively concluded a contract, all previous terms, propositions,
and negotiations concerning it, are merged in the
contract itself;. and this is equally true, whether
"the contract is in writing, or by parol only. It
does not, therefore, follow, that the contract is
extinguished, but the, contrary. The contract
clearly exists, and is supposed by all the authorities to exist; but. is not to be affected by the negotiations of the parties which preceded its final
completion.
. The contract, in this. case, is not merged and
extinguished in the writing; the power looks to
something future to be done by virtue of it, and
pursuant to the contract: the power is not the
contract; it is a means by which a future act was
to have been done, in fulfilment of the contract
by one of the. parties. It cannot be pretended,
that the parties meant that the power should embrace the whole contract between them on both
sides; neither does it. The agreement is not,
and was not -intended to be set out. The loan,
the terms on which it was made, the negotiable
notesi the assignment of the policy, all exist, independently of the power, and are binding engagements, The power was intended as a means. in
the hands of the plaintiff to coerce the intestate
to the performance of his agreement; it was not

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Hunt

v.
Rousrnanier.

intended as evidence at all, and, at most, it is evidence of part of the contract only; of the means
which the parties had selected to carry into effect
the contract, but which does not preclude a resort
to other means, that having failed by accident. It
cannot be denied that, according to the whole current of authorities, parol evidence is admissible to
correct errors and mistakes in ihe written instrument. But how can this be reconciled with the
notion, that the parol contract is extinguished by
the writing? For, if the writing alone is the
contract, all idea of mistake is utterly and necessarily excluded. The writing, in that case, would
be the original, and to admit parol proof, would
be, not to correct, but to alterthe original., And,
perhaps, it may be well doubted, whether the
power, in this case, can be considered as legal
direct written evidence of any part of the contract.
If A. sells his ship to B., and gives him a power of
attorney to take possession of her, it can hardly
be considered, that this power is the direct, written evidence of the contract; it is a power growing out of the contract, and given to aid its execution. The undisputed execution of the instrument by which the power was given, is evidence
of its being a voluntary act, and by inference,
proves that it was agreed to be given, but is not
the direct evidence of the contract itself. There
is an essential difference between a contract to
perform a particular thing, and the actual performance of that thing. Here the contract was for a
specific lien on the vessels, and to secure that lien
the power was given ; it is evidence of an after

OF THE UNITED STATES.

act intended to be done under the contract, rather 1823.
than direct evidence of the contract itself.
Hunt
It must be admitted, that there was originally a
v.
contract for a lien, by mortgage, bill of sale, orlRoumanier.
some other mode; nor can it be successfully contended, that the power of attorney, when adopted,
operated either as an extinguishment of the original contract, or as a waiver of all other security;
thus narrowing down that instrument, the original
contract for a lien, in the same manner, 'nd with
like legal effect, as if the original contract was for
that identical instrument, and nothing more. The
contract was for a legal and valid security on the
vessels; and the parties, by adopting the power,
did not change, nor mean to change, the contract,
but to execute it in part. It was a mode, and the
parties believed, a good and sufficient mode of securing the lien, pursuant to the contract. It has
now proved insufficient of itself. The contract,
however, remains the same as at first, a contract
for security, and wholly unexecuted; and if the
particular instrument adopted- by the parties to
carry it into effect, proves insufficient for that purpose, it clearly entitles the injured party to the interposition of a Court of equity.
. It cannot be denied that, in some cases, mis-

takes in a written instrument may be corrected by
parol evidence. But, it is said, by the Court below,
that this is not one of those cases ; that here is no
mistake of fact; that the power contains the very
language and terms the parties intended it should
contain, and that to grant relief in such a case,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT ,

1823.
\.%.

Hun

Rousmanier.

would be in opposition to the whole current of authorities.

But, it is submitted, that such is not the rule
upon this subject. It would seem to be an inference, from ihe decision of the Circuit Court,
that no relief can be granted unless, sorething
is omitted which was expressly agreed to be
inserted, or something inserted more than was
agreed; that the errors to be corrected are such as
have occurred in omissions or additions, in drawing up the written instrument, but not the errors
in its legal import and effect; that if the formal
instrument, and the language, are used, which the
parties intended should be used, no relief can be
had, although that instrument does not contain the
legal intentions of the parties. But, it is humbly
conceived, that the distinction, as here applied, is
not supported by the authorities. If too much is
inIserted, or something is omittedin the written instrument, it may be corrected by parol evidence,
because it does not contain the meaning and intention of the parties. And if every word, and
no more, is inserted, which the parties designed
to have inserted, yet, if those words do not embrace and import the .neaning and intention of
the parties, it is as clear a mistake and misconception as the other, and the contract is as effectually
defeated by the mistake 'in the one instance as
the other. The true foundation for the admission
of parol evidence, is, that the instrument does not
speak the legal, though it may the verbal,language
of the parties; it does not speak the legal import
of their contract as they intended it should. And

183

OF THE UNITED STATES.

wherever the intention of the parties will be de- 1823.
feated by a defect in the instrument, that defect
Hunt
V.
may.be proved and corrected by parol evidence,
Rousmamer.
or
addition,
or
omission
from
whether it arises
from insufficient and inapt language and terms of
the instrument. When it is satisfactorily proved
by parol, that there is a mistake in the instrument
as to its provisions, or a misconception of its legal
import and effect, so that the intentions of the parties will, in either instance, be defeated, it is clearly
a case of equitable cognizance, and a subject of
equitable jurisdiction .and relief.a
3. Again; the plaintiff is entitled to the benefit
of his lien, upon the ground, that the contract
has been, on his part, fully performed; and even if
no writing whatever had been executed, he would
be entitled to the performance of it by ihe other
party. Part performance has always been considered as obviating the necessity of written evidence, and gives to the performing party the benefit
of specific relief against his negligent and faithless adversary. It has, indeed, been questioned,
in several cases, (arising under the statute of
frauds, and touching an interest in lands,) whether
the payment of a small part of the consideration
money, would take the case out of the statute, as
amounting to part performance. But, in all, or
a 2 Freeman, 246. 281.

3 Yes. jr. 399.

Ncwland on Contracts, 348, 349.

1 Johns. Ch. Rep. 607.

1 Yes. sen. 317. 456.

1 Bro. Ch. Rep. 341. 1 P. Wfins. 277. 334. 2 Vern. 564. 3
Atc. 203. 2 Egu. Cas. Ab4r. 16. Sudg. Vend. 481. 3 4tk.

388. 2 Yes. jr. 151.
Vern. 37.

1 (h. Rep. 78.

2 Yenrris, 367.

1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Hunt

nearly all these cases, the payment was of what
called earnest money, to bind the bargain, and
not in the nature of a substantial, beneficial payment of part of the consideration money. But
even if it be a principle, that part payment does
not exempt the case from the provisions of the
statute, yet, it is conceived, that the rule does not
extend to a case where the contract stated in the
bill ig distinctly admitted, and where the full consideration has actually been advanced and paid.
Wherever the party has completely and fully executed his part of the contract, whether by payment
of money, or other acts, the rule in equity is, I apprehend, almost universal, to coerce the other
party to a specific execution of the contract on his
part.*
As to the cases which are supposed to lay down
a general and inflexible rule, that a mistake of
parties as to the law, is not a ground for reforming the instrument, they will all be found to resolve thdmselves into cases, where there was-no
other, or previous agreement, than what was contained, or meant to be contained, in the instrument itself. Thus, in a leading case on this subject,b where an annuity was granted, but no power
of redemption contained in the deed, it being erroneously supposed by the parties that it would
make the contract usurious, Lord Thurlow refused

Sis

Y.

Rousmanier.

a Newlandon Contr. 181. 1 Ves. 82. 7 Ves. 341. 3,4tk. 1.
4 Ves. 720. 722. 1 Vern. 263. 3 Ch. Rep.
16. Tothill,67. Roberts, 154. 1 P. 7Vms. 282. 277. 1 Madd.
Ch. 301. 2 Equ. Cas. Abr. 48.
b Lord Irnham v. Child, 1 Bro. Ch. Cas. 91.

2 Ch. Cas. 135.

185

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to relieve.

But here the whole contract was un- 1828.

questionably merged in the deed; and, therefore,

.'y%

Hunt

the Lord Chancellor refused to add a new term
v.
to the agreement, upon the ground, that it was RoufC
intentionally omitted by the parties, upon a mistake of the law. But, in the case now before the
Court, there was no intentional omission in the
instrument, upon a mistake of law or fact, for the
instrument was never meant by the parties, to contain the terms of the contract. It was merely
intended as an instrument, or means, to carry the
contract into effect, and I have already endeavoured to show, that the contract might well subsist,
and be carried into effect without it. Not so with
the giant of the annuity in Lord Irnham v.
Child.
But there are many cases in the books, where
the party has been relieved from the consequence
of acts founded on ignorance of the law,0 and I
am unable to reconcile these cases with the, idea,
that there is any universal rule on this subject,
still less that it can' be applied to the present
case.
4. Lastly; the power was unquestionably intended by the parties to be irrevocable for ever,
and to transfer an interest in the thing itself, or
the authority of disposing of it for the benefit of
the plaintiff; and even admitting, argumenti
gratia,that this intention has failed at law, by
the death of the party, still it is insisted, that a
0 Landsdowne v. Landsdowne, MoselyVa Rep. 364. Pusey v.
Desbouvrle, 3 P.TFWui. 315. Pullen v. Ready, 2,4t. 591.

VOL. ViH.

24

.

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

1823

Court of equity will now compel the personal reto do what it would have compelled

\presentatives
Hunt

V.
R~usm-rner,

their intestate to do, if the intention had been de-

feated by any other accident during his lifetime.
It was an equitable lien, or mortgage; and such a
lien will be enforced in equity against the claims
of all other creditors, although imperfect at law.0
So, too, an agreement for a mortgage, and an advance of money thereon, binds the heir and creditors.' And a deposite of title deeds, even a
part of the title papers, upon an advance of money, without a word passing, creates an equitable
mortgage.' A fortiori,ought an express agreement for a lien, to be specifically enforced in
equity. The power is a power coupled with
an interest, not merely in the execution of the
power, but in the thing itself, at least in the
view of a Court of equity; and the only reason
why it is not effectual at law, to secure the specific
.lien stipulated, is on account of its being made in
the form of a letter of attorney, authorizing the
plaintiff to sell in the name of the grantor. Even
admitting, that such a power cannot be executed,
qua power, after the death of the grantor; still,
the instrufment containing the power recites, that
it was given as collateral security for the payment
of the notes; and in case of loss of the vessel, or
'freight, authorizes the plaintiff to receive the
amount to become due on the policy of insurance
a S John. Ch. Rep. 315.

b S Tres.jr. 582.

1 .4tk. 147.

c Russel v. Russel, 1 Bro. Ch. Cas. 269,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

on the same, which was also assigned. Here, 1823.
then, is an equitable lien or mortgage, and equity
DM.
widi now compel the administrators to put the
V.
party in the same situation, as if such lien or mort- Roumanier.
gage had been perfected.a
Mr. Hunter, for the respondents, stated, that
the first question was, whether the letters of attorney were powers coupled with an interest, or
only personal authorities, which expired with the
intestate.
This question was fully investigated by. the
learned Judge in the Court below, and determined
in favour of the defendants. "In his judgment,
these -were not powers coupled with an interest, in
the sense of the law. They were naked powers,
and, as such, bytheir own terms, could be executed only in the name of Rousmanier, and, therefore, became extinct by his death." This question, arising on the original bill, seems now to be
abandoned by the plaintiff's counsel, and it is,
therefore, unnec-ssary to argue it anew. The
Court will be in possession of the able opinion
referred to; it exhausts the subject, and it would
be useless to repeat, and presumptuous to add to,
or vary its arguments. A single authority, however, may be added, on account of the coincidence
of the-facts in the case, to that now under discusSion.
"One being indebted to B., makes a letter of
attorney to him to receive all such wages as shall
a Burn v. Burn, 3 Ve. jr. 573.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\dies;

Hunt

V.

after become due to him, then goes to sea, and
this authority is determined, so that he can-

not compel an account of wages, if any due at

ousmanier. making the letter of attorney, much less of what

after became due, but the administrator must pay
according to the course of the law.""
2. As to the amended bill, it entirely disappoints the liberal intentions of the Judge in granting it. He said, that Courts of equity would relieve where the instruments have been imperfectly
drawn up by mistake, or where, by accident, the
parties have failed in executing their agrei.ments.
The amended bill refers neither to accident nor
mistake, or to any facts tending to prove their existence. It excludes and negatives the supposition of accident or mistake. The whole matter
(it appears) was done upon advice, with the assistance of counsel learnedin the law. The security which the plaintiff ultimately received, was
that which he preferred. He could, at the time,
have taken that kind of security he seems now to
desire. He rejected the offer of a mortgage, or
bill of sale, and elected to take these powers of
attorney. They were the most convenient for
both parties, and so far was either party from
being surprised or mistaken, that what was done
appears as the judicious result of mutual and advised deliberations. Neither party had reference
to the death of the other; it may be admitted,
that it was the death of Rousmanier which frustrated Hunt's expectation of indemnity; but where
a Mitchel v. Eades, Prec. in Ch. 125.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

an event happens without default on the other 1823.
side, although expectation may be frustrated, and
Hutt
V
that expectation grounded, too, on the true intent
Rousaniez.
The
relief.*
give
not
will
of the parties, yet equity
case presents no mistake or misconception. Fraud
is not suggested; and it is admitted, there is no
mistake either of omission or addition. It is
clear, that the parties intended not an ordinary
sale, or assignment of the vessels in question; yet
the plaintiff seeks to have the same effect produced
by his powers of attorney, as if they were grand
bills of sale, or mortgages.
In the cases that have arisen-upon the redeemi
ability of annuities, where the parties, by mutual
and innocent error, left out of the deed a provision for redemption, under an idea that, if inserted, it would make the transaction usurious,
there being no charge of- fraud in the omission,
the Court would not grant relief. They could
see no mistake. Lord Eldon says, the Court
were desired to do, not what the parties intended,
but something contrary thereto. They desired tobe
put in the same situation as if they had been better
informed, and had a contrary intention. It is admitted, that the plaintiff's security was to be by
powers of attorney; and why should the Court
now turn them into bills of sale, or mortgages, or
any security equivalent to these, but different from
those originally and deliberately taken.b
* a 1 Ve8.98,99. 24tkyns, 261.

See Phaipe Evid. 451.
92. 3 Bro. CA. Cas. 92.

6 es.jr. 332.

1 Bro. Ci. Ca.

CASES N THE SUPREME COURT

\

18.
v
Hunt
V.

Rousmanier.

It was the fault of the plaintiff, that he waived
taking a mortgage or bill of sale; and no maxim
of equity is better established-than this, " that no
man is entitled to the aid ofa Court of equity,
when the necessity of resorting to that Court is
created by his own fault."
It seems to be admitted, that there was no mistake in point of fact; it is, in substance, urged,
that there was amistake in point of law ; both parties, assisted by counsel, were mistaken in supposing a defeasible to be an indefeasible security;
that powers of attorney, deriving their sole force
from the life of the constituent, were' perpetually
obligatory, though death, and the law, decreed
otherwise. No case is cited, which has gone the
length of deciding, that a transaction taintless of
fraud, undisturbed by accident, and unaffected by
mistake in fact, has been rescinded and reversed,
because the parties innocently misconceive the
law.
All the cases are of a contrary tendency. Every
party stands upon his own case, and his counsel's
"wit." In the case of Pullen v. Ready," Lord
Hardwicke, in substance, says: if parties act with
counsel, the parties shall be supposed to be acquainted with the consequences of law, and nothing
is more mischievous than to decree relief for an
alleged mistake, in a matter in which, if there was
any mistake, it was that of all the parties, and no
one of them is more under an imposition than the
other. Every man, says Mr. Chancellor Kent,
a 2 4tk. 587'. 591.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

must be charged at his peril with the knowledge 1823.
of the law ; there is no 'other principle that is safe Hunt
or practicable in the common intercours of manv.
kind. Courts do not undertake to relieve parties Rousmia.
from their acts and deeds fairly done, on a full
knowledge of facts, though under a mistake of
the law." I never understiod, says Lord Eldon,b
that though this Court, upon the ground of a mistake, (in point of fact,) would reform an instrument, that, therefore, it would bold, that the instrument has a different aspect from th t which
belongs to it at law. Lord Thurlow, long before,
refused to add a new term to an agreement, upon
the ground, that it was intentionallyomitted upon
a mistake of the law. And the Master of the
Rolls subsequently adhered to this doctrine.' It
was substantially upon this view of the case, that
the learned Judge in the Court below decided,
that the demurrer to the amended bill was well
taken. " He could perceive no ground for the
interference of a Court of equity. There was
no mistake in the execution of the instruments ;
they expressed exactly what the parties intended
they should express; this security was the choice
of the plaintiff; in the event it hias turned out
unproductive; but this is lis' misfortune, and affords no ground to give him a preference over other
creditors." As a creditor, he obtains his share,
a L~on v. Richmond, 2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 51. 60.
b Underhill v. Howard, 10 Ves. 209.228.
c Imham v. Child, 1 Bro. C. Cas. 91.

d Lord Portmore v. Morris, 2 Bro. Ch. Cas. 219. Marquis
of Townsend v. Sterngroom, 6 Ves. 328. 382.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182,3.
Hunt

v.

legal payment of his note. The administrators,
as trustees for all the creditors, are bound to exert
themselves to prevent a priority which they be-

Bous"aier. lieve to be unsanctioned by law.

They contend

for equality, they act on the defensive; they are
solicitous to avoid an evil, they have no hope of
receiving a gain; and they who arn so placed, (de
damno evitando certantes,) may take advantage,
if it may be so called, of the error of another.
This, says Lord Kaimes, is a universal law of
nature, and is especially applicable as to creditors."
The reasoning of the counsel for the appellant,
has no reference t) the facts of the case. It strips
the case of all its facts and circumstances, and
goes upon the general intention of the deceased
intestate to give his creditor a permanent and specific security. This general intention was consummated and ascertain d by a particular and
detailed execution, in the very mode which the
creditor preferred.
The powers of attorney are now regarded by
the plaintiff's counsel as non-existent. To give
motion and progress to their argument, they would
remove this obstruction; and do to this, they are
obliged to attempt (merely human as they are)
that which the schoolmen long ago (without impiety) said was impossi'le even with Deity: Quod
factum est Deus ipse non potest revocare. But,
*atfirst, the powers of attorney were resorted to,
and set up as charging the defendants, and that
upon their own strength and validity, without the
a Prihtfplesof Bquity, 26, 27. 162.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

193

suggestion of mistake or insufficiency; they were 1823.
the foundation of the originalbill.
Hunt
Having chosen to begin his pursuit on the wriV.
ting exclusively, and in jerfect confidence of its Rusmar.
validity, is it competent to the plaintiff, by an
amendment to his bill, to resort to verbal negotiations merely introductory of the final settlement
and consummate act between the parties, in which
all negotiations were merged beyond the power of
reviyal ? The existence of the powers is at first
not only asserted, but .they are endowed with a
continued existence beyond the life of their author. As this is found to be impossible, they are
now to be considered as nothing; far from being a
specific performance of the general intention,
they are not the contract, nor any evidence of it.
They are overthkown, for the purpose of erecting
upon their overthrow a firmer fabric of obligation
out -of loose equities and verbal negotiations.
There seems, in this course, to be too much inconsistency for sound and afe reasoning. Administrators must, necessarily, be ignorant of the private verbal communications of the parties, and
they are left. defenceless, and liable to impositions
which cannot be detected nor repelled. The case
of-Ha~ynes v. Hare,determined by Lord Loughborough, is, as to many of its facts, dnd all its points
of law, similar to the one now under consideration. The Court then said, there is nothing so
dangerous as to permit deeds and conveyances,
after the death of the parties to them, to be liable
a 1 . Bt 64.
VOL. VIII

25

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
N EW TERMS added to them on the discloan attorney, in a matter in which he could
meet with no contradiction.,

1823.

to have

Hunt

Ssure of

VH

Rousmanier.

3. Even if we could suppose the existence of a

mistake, yet a review of all the leading cases
would, not furnish one, in any degree analogous to
the present, in which relief has been granted. In
the case of Graves v. The Boston Marine Insurance Company, the plaintiffs, in the bill,
grounded themselves on the allegation, that their
case was but the common one of a mistake in
using inapt words to express the meaning of the
parties.' The proof, as to the intention bf one
of the parties, was perfectly satisfactory, and as
to the. other, it pressed so heavily on the Court,
that they acknowledged there were doubts and
difficulties in the case. But they decided against
relief; they shrunk from the peril of conforming
a written instrument to the alleged intention of
the party plaintiff, upon a claim not asserted
until an event made it his interest so to do. In a
case betw.een the originalparties, unaffected by
death or insolvency, where no new and third party
sought mere equality of condition, the Court appeared to have acted upon the principle, that they
had before them a written instrument, not in itself
doubtful, and they repelled the recourse to parol
testimony, or extraneous circumstances, to create a
doubt where the instrument itself was clear and
a See Poolev. Cabanes, 8 Term Rep. 328.

b 2 Cranch'8 Rep. 430.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

195

6xplicit.a The doctrine of the. cases under the 1823.
statute of frauds, applies afortiori, for, by the 1
common law, an attorney must be made by'deed.b i.Hnt
4. But, again;. admitting, argumenti gratia,Rousmanier.
the existence of a mistake, can a plaintiff claim
on that account relief, admitting that a defendant
could. A defendant, in a proper case, is privileged to shov a. mistake as matter of defence, and
for the purpose of rebutting the plaintiff's equity;
but no English case can be shown, where the
Plaintiff has been allowed to give parol evidence
varying a "Yritten instrument on the ground of
mistake: These cases, of the highest authority,
and determined on great consideration, show the
difference of right and condition as to plaintiff
and defendant, of evidence offered for the different purpose of resisting a decree, and that offered
for-obtaining it. The difference exists in the code
of every civilized nation. Favarabilioresrei
potius -uam a.tores habentut,. is the maxim of
th6 civil law. Potior est conditio defendentis, is
the familiar language of our own. These, andother
similar maxims, are of universal prevalence, and
uncontradioted reception, and equally applicable
in concerns civil and criminal; Both parties' are
the object of equal protection ; but to make that
a See Parkhurst. v. Van Cortlandt, 1 John8. Ch. Rep. 282.
Souveage v. Arden, 1 Jons. Ch.Rep. 252.
b Co. Litt. 401.

2 Roll.Abr. 8.

1 Bac. Abr. 314. tit. 4u.

toriify.
c P
eillsas
Evid.454, Woolan v. Hearn) 7 Yes. jr. 211.
Higinson v. Clowes, 15 Ye. 516. Clinan v. Cooke, 1 Sco. ,4
Left 38, 39. determined by Lord Redesdale.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Ht
Hunt

v.
Rousmanier.

protection equal, a certain position and condition
is assigned to the defendant; he i so placed that
he may not be overcome by surprise; the law
seeks for actual, not nominal reciprocity; the relative condition of the parties enters into the account; evenhanded justice first corrects the balance, by making the proper allowances before
she weighs the merits of the cause. Looking to
the statute of frauds, or to the pre-existing rule
of the common rule, (a fortiori,applicable in the
instance of a power of attorney, which cannot be
but with deed,) we must conclude, that, in a case
like this, the defendants are not to be charged,
unless they have agreed to be so by writing; and
if there is a vriting, it excludes a reference to
what may have been the previous talk or negotiation; the original proposition, or the rejected offer.
There is a writing or deed which does not charge
thepresent defendants, and there the case ought
to end. It is not necessary to invoke the aid of
arguments drawn from public policy, or to exhibit
the sad inconveniences that would result from the
plaintiff's success. The impolicy of permitting a
transaction of the kind exhibited by the plaintiff's
bill, is obvious. It is contrary to what ought to
be the openness of commercial dealing, and to
the entire spirit of the commercial laws. That
requires publicity in transfers of property, demands that possession should accompany the
grant, permits the control of the possessor to
prove the ownership, and avoids or limits secret
trusts and liens ; secret letters of attorney, granting a power to sell, especially in the case of ships,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

without delivery, without a change of papers, 1825.
without notice to the government, or to the mer- Hunt
cantile public, are fraught with dangerous conseV.
Rummer.
against
as
supported
be
hardly
could
and
quences,
creditors,though the life of the constituent still
sustained their existence and efficacy. Upon the
whole, it is submitted, that it is the aim of the
plaintiff's counsel unduly to amplify equitable jurisdiction, and to extend an unwarrantable relief,
upon the ground of mistake, in a case where no
mistake exists, and where, even if it did, his right
or faculty of availing himself of it is denied. " Optima est lex qua minimum reliqizit arntrio Judicis; Optimus Judez qui minimum si&i."
Mr. Wkeaton, for the appellant, in reply, first remarked, that the whole of the argument submitted
by the counsel for the respondents, proceeded upon
a mistaken assumption, that the entire cdntract
between the parties was merged in the written
power, and that this instrument is the only admissible evidence of the terms and conditions on
which the loan was made. But the demurrer admis all the facts stated in the original end amended bill, as if the same were proved by parol testimony'; all the terms and conditions of the contract were not intended to be.reduced to writing
by the parties, nor are they required by any positive law to be so expressed; and the power itself
was merely incidental to the -contract,and intended, like the transfer of the policy of insurance, as
a means of carrying it into effect. It might as
well be contended, that the transfer of the policy

CASES'IN THIE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\ney
Hunt

V.
Rousmanier.

was the entire contract, as that the letter of attorembraced all its terms and conditions.

The

true question is, whether, under all the circumstances of ihe case, an equitable lien was created,
which a Court of Chancery will carry into effect.
Nor was it meant to be admitted, that this was
not a power coupled with an interest, in the sense
of the law. It was merely meant to insist, that
even if that point were conceded, it formed no obstacle to the interference of a Court of equity
in the present case. But it is with very great deference submitted, that this is not a mere naked
power, according to- the definition given of it by
Chief Justice (now Chancellor) Kent." That
learned and accurate lawyer says, " a power simply collateral, and without interest, or a naked
power, is where, to a mere stranger,authority is
given to dispose of an interest, in which he had
not before, nor hath by the. instrument- creating
the power, any estate whatever; but when a
pQwer is given to a person who derives, under the
instrument creating the power, or otherwise, a
present or future interest in 'the land, it is then a
power relating to the land." In the text of Co.
Litt. 1. 66. the deed of feoffment was made to
one- person, and a.letter of attorney to deliver
seisin to another, who was a mere stranger. But,
here the power is given by a debtor to his creditor,
and is expressly declared to be given as a collateral security for the debt. And, in the case cited
from Precedents in Chancery, 125. the power
a Bergen v. Bennett, 1 Caines' Cas. in Error,1.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

199

did not purport, on thefice of it, to be given as a 1823.
collateral security, nor was there any evidence of
a contract for a lien or security on the wages.
V.
Roumaer.
a
of
ground
Nor do we proceed solely on the
mere mistake, either in fact or law. We ask to
have the contract executed in good faith by the
personal representatives of the debtor, precisely
as he would have been compelled to carry it into
effect if its execution had been prevented by any
other accident than that of his death. It is perfectly clear, that both parties intended to create a
specific lien; and the lien is supposed to be as
valid now, as in the lifetime of the intestate ; for
it is submitted to be a well established principle
of equity, (with very few exceptions, of which this
case is not one,) that when the party is holden to
the specific execution of a contract, his personal
representatives are equally holden. If the power
is now defective in securing a lien, it was equally
so in his lifetime. No legal or equitable right is,
in this respect, lost by his death."
The respondent's counsel assumes it to be a
settled doctrine of equity, that a plaintiff is never
permitted to show, by parol proof, that there has
been a mistake or misapprehension in a written
contract, the execution of which he seeks to enforce; and that the rule which permits. the introduction of such proofs, is exclusively confined to
the dfendant, against whom the contract is sought
to be enforced. It is true, that Lord Redesdale,
a 2 Madd. Ch. 112.
17 Ves. 489.

1 Madd. Ch. 41.

4 Bro. Ch. Cas. 472.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

in Clinan v. Cooke,, seems to be of that opinion ;
in a few other cases, relief has been denied
Hunt
V. on that ground. But all these were cases arising
I . under the statute of frauds, and nearly all of them
respected an interest in lands; and in all such
cases, parol proof, when offered to vary or materially affect. a written contract, is certainly received
with great circumspection and . reserve. It is,
however,.submitted, that the rule stated by. the respondent's counsel, is not founded in principle;
and that parol evidence to show mistakes in written instruments, is, in equity, equally open to both
parties.. And, it will be found, that in almost all
the cases where the-plaintiff has failed in seeking
the aid of parol proof, it was not because any such
rule was. interposed, but because his evidence of
the supposed mistake was not clear and satisfactory. The case referred to in 2 Cranch,419. is
of this description. The Court, in that case,
would have afforded the plaintiff relief, if he had
been able to prove the mistake which he alleged
in the policy. The same prineiple is adopted in
2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 274. 630. ; and if there were
any doubts growing out of some of the English
decisions, they would be dissipated by the learned
and able investigation of Mr. Chancellor Kent,'
where all the authorities are carefully reviewed,
aind it is clearly established, that no distinction is
made, in this respect, between the party plaintiff
or defendant, but that the benefit of the rule is
impartially extended to both.
Sand

a i Sch, J-Lef. 22.

b 2 Johinw. Ch; Rep. 585.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The cause was continued to the next term for
advisement.

182S.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opir
nion of the Court. The counsel forthe appellant Afar 14a,
objects to the decree of the. Circuit Court on two 182.
grounds. He contends,
I. That this power of attorney does, by its own
operation, entitle the plaintiff, for the satisfaction of
his debt, to the interest of Rousmifiier in the Nereus and the Industry.
2. Or, if this be not so, tliat-p, r of Chancery will, the conveyance being defective, lend its
aid to carry the contract into execution, according
to the intention of the parties.
We will consider, I. The effect of the power
of attorney.
This instrument contains no words of convey- !orney,
Apowerthough
o atance or of assignment, but is a simple power to sell ieraorevob a
and convey. As the power of one man to act for beiglien
or
another, depends on the will and license of that rokyh

other, the power ceases when the will, or thi per- death
there- pay.
mission, is withdrawn. The general rule,
fore, is, that a letter of attorney may, at any time,
be revoked by the party who makes it; and is revoked by his death. But this general rule, which
results from the nature of the act, has sustained
some modification. Where a letter of attorney
forms a part of a contract, and is a security for
money, or for the performance of any act which is
deemed valuable, it is generally made irrevocable
in terms, or if not so, is deemed irrevocable in
VoL. V11L

26

of to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1828.
Sits
Hunt
v.
lRousanir.

law.. Although a letter of attorney depends, from
nature, on the will of the person making it,
and may, in general, be recalled at his will; yet,
if he binds himself for a consideration, in terms,

or by the nature of his contract, not to change his
will, the law will not permit him to change it.
Rousmanier, therefore, could not, during his
life, by any act of his own, have revoked this
letter of attorney. But does it retain its efficocy
after his death? We think it does not. We
think it well settled, that a power of attorney,
though irrevocable during the life of the party,
becomes extinct by his death.
This principle is asserted in Littleton, (see. 66.)
by Lord Coke, in his commentary on that section,
(52 b.) and in Willes' Reports, (105. note, and
565.) The legal reason of the rule is a plain one.
It seems founded on the presumption, that the substitute acts by virtue of the authority of his principal, existing at the time the act is performed;
and on the manner in which he must execute his
authority, as stated in Coombes' case." In that
case it was resolved, that " when any has authority as attorney to do any act, he ought to do it in
his name who gave the authority." The reason
of this resolution is obvious. The title can,.regularly, pass out of the person in whom it is vested,
only by a conveyance in his own name; and this
cannot be executed by another for him, when it
could not, in law, be executed by himself. A cona 2 Esp. N. P. Rep. 365.

b -9-Co.

766.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

203

veyance in the name of a person who was dead -at 1823.
the time, would be a manifest absurdity.
Hunt
V.
This gen*eral doctrine, that a power must be
Pounanxer.
a
it,
gives
'who
person
a
of
name
executed in the
doctrine founded on the nature of the transaction,
is most usually engrafted in the power itself. Its
usual language is, that the substitute shall do that
which he is empowered to do in the name of his
princzpaJ. He is put in the place and stead. of
his principal, and is to act in his name, This accustomed form is observed in the instrument under
consideration. Hunt is constituted the attorney, and
is authorized to make, and execute, a regular bill of
sale in the name of Rousmanier. Now, as an
authority must be pursued, in order to make the
act of the substitute the act of the principal, it is
necessary that this bill of sale should be in the
name of Rousmanier; and it would be a gross
absurdity, that a deed should purport to be executed, by him. even by attorney, after his death;
for, the. attorney is in the place of the principal,
capable of doing that alone which the principal
might do.
Apower ofatThis-general rule, that a power ceases with the tornay:,coupled
a t'ac-ith in
the
life of*the person giving it, admits of one excep17 1 rest
tion. If a power be coupled with ait "interest," it thnsurv
"d
survives the person giving it, and may be executed ing
may itbe exe-

cutedater Mafter his death.
As this proposition is laid down too positively deatb.
in the books to be controverted, it becomes necessary to inquire what is meant by the expression,
" a power coupled with an interest?" Is it an
interesti the subject on which the power is to be

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
v'
Hunt
V.

Rogsmanier.

exercised, or is it an interest in that which is produced by the exercise of the power? We hold
it to be clear; that the interest which can protect a
power after the death of a person who creates it,
must be an interest in the thing itself. In other
words, the power must be engrafted on an estate
in the thing.
The words themselves would seem to import
this meaning. " A power coupled with an interest," is a power which accompanies, or is connected - with, an interest. The power and the
interest are united in the same person. But ifwe
are to understand by the word "interest," an interest in that which is to be produced by the exertise of the power, then they are never united.
The power, to produce the interest, must be exercised, and by its exercise, is extinguished. The
power ceases when the interest commences, and,
therefore, cannot, in accurate law language, be
said to be " coupled" with it.
But the substantial basis of the opinion of the
Court on this point, is found in the legal reason
of the principle. The interest or title in the
thing being vested in the person who gives the
power, remains in him, unless it be conveyed with
the power, and can pass out of him only by a regular act in his own name. The act of the substitute, therefore, which, in such a case, is the act
of .the principal, to be legally effectual, must be
in his name, must be such an ,act as the principal himself would be capable of performing,
and which would be valid if performed by him.
Such a power necessarily ceases with the life of

205

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the person making it. But if the interest, or
estate, passes with •the power, and vests in the
person by whom the power is to be.exercised, such
person acts in his own name.

1823.
Hunt

v.

The estate, being Rlamer,

in him, passes from him by a conveyance in his
own name. He is no longer a substitute, acting
in the place and name of another, but is a principal acting in his own name, in pursuance of powers
which limit his estate. The legal reason which
limits a power to the life of the perspn giving it,
exists no longer, and the rule ceases with the reason on which it is founded. The intention of the
instrument may be effected without violating any
legal principle.
This idea may be in some degree illustrated by
examples of cases in which the law is clear, and
which are incompatible with any other exposition
of the term "power coupled with an interest." If
the word "interest" thus used, indicated a title
to the proceeds of the sale, and not a title to the
thing to be soldj then a power to A. to sell for his
own benefit, would be a power coupled with an
interest; but a power to A. to sell for the benefit
of B., would be a naked power, which could be executed only in the life of the person who gave it.
Yet, for this distinction, no legal reason can be
assigned. Nor is there any reason for it in justice ; for, a power to A., to sell for the benefit of
B., may be as much a part of the contract on which
B. advances his money, as if the power had been
made to himself. If this were the true exposition
of the term, then a power to A. to sell for the use
of B., inserted in a conveyance to A., of the thing

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

\

1823.
Hunt

v.

tQ be sold, would not be a power coupled with an
interest, and, consequently, could not be exercised
after the death of the person making it; while a

Bousniuer. power to A. to sell and pay a debt to himself,

though not accompanied with any conveyance
which might vest the title in him, would enable him
to make the.conveyance, and to pass a title not in
him, even after the vivifying principle of the power
had become extinct. But every day's experience
teaches us, that the law is not as the first case put
would suppose. We know, that a power to A. to
sell for the benefit of B., engrafted on an estate
conveyed to A., may-be exercised at any time, and
is not affected by the death of the person who
created it. It is, then, a power coupled with an
interest, although the person to whom it is given
has .no interest in its exercise. His power is
coupled with an interest in the thing which enables him to execute it in his own name, and is,
therefore, not dependent on the life of the person
who created it..
The general rule, that a power of attorney,
though irrevocable by the party during his life, is
extinguished by his death, is not affected by the
circumstance, that testamentary powers are executed after the death of the testator. The law, in
allowing a testamentary disposition of property,
not only permits a will to be considered as a conveyance, but gives it an operation which is not
allowed to deeds which have their effect during the
life of the person who executes them. An estate
given by will may take effect at a future time or oil,
a future contingency, and, in the mean time, do-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

207

scends to the heir. The power is, necessarily, to 1823.
be executed after the death of the person who
Hunt
makes it, and cannot exist during his life. It is
v.
the intention, that it shall be executed after his Roumaner.
death. The conveyance made by the person to
whom it is given, takes effict by virtue of the will,
and the purchaser holds his title under it. Every
case of a power given in a will, is considered in
a Court of Chancery as a trust for the benefit of
the person for whose use the power is made, and
as a devise or bequest to that person.
It is, then, deemed perfectly clear, that the
power given in this case, is a naked power, not
coupled with an interest, which, though irrevocable by Rousmanier himself, expired on his death. Rowv far t
It remains to inquire, whether the appellant is Courtof equientitled to the aid of this Court, to give.effect to ,o"Id
the intention of the parties; to subject the interest C,
°flu
to
tended
the
of Rousmanier in the Nereus and Industry to
zecured by be
n
payment of the money advanced by the plaintiff irrevocable
power of attoron the credit of those vessels, the instrument taken nay, which
tao revoked
for that purpose having totally failed to effect its by operation
of law on the
death
object.
r t y of the
most
plaintiff
the
which
on
point
the
This is
relies, and is that on which the Court has felt most
doubt. That the parties intended, the one to
give, and the other to receive, an effective security
on the two vessels mentioned in the bill, is admitted ; and the question is, whether the law of this
Court will enable it to carry this intent into execution, when the instrument relied on by both parties has failed to accomplish its object.
The respondents insist, that there is no defect

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

in the instrument itself; that it contains precisely

Swhat it was intended to contain, and is the instruHum

V.

Rousmanigr.

ment which was chosen by the parties deliberately,
on the advice of counsel, and intended to be the

consummation of their agreement. That in such
a case the written agreement cannot be-varied by
parol testimony.
The counsel for the- appellant contends, with
great force, that the cases in which parol testimony
has been rejected, are cases in which the agreement itself has been committed to writing; and
one of the parties has sought to contradict, explain, or vary it, by parol evidence. That in thip
case the agreement is not reduced to writing. The
power of attorney does not profess to be the agreement, but is a collateral instrument to enable the
party to have the benefit of it, leaving the agreement still in full force, in its original form. That
this parol agreement not being within the statute
of frauds, would be enforced by this Court if the
power of attorney had not been executed; and
not being merged in 'the power, ought now to be
executed. That the power being incompetent to
its object, the Court will enforce the agreement
agahist general creditors,
This argument is entitled to, and has received,
very deliberate consideration.
'The first inquiry respects the fact. Does this
power of attorney purport to be the agreement ?
Is it an: instrument collateral to the agreement?
Or is it an execution of the agreement itself in
the form intended by both the parties ?
The bill states an offer on the part of Rousma-

OF- THE UNITED STATES.

209

nier to give a mortgage on the vessels, either in 1823.
the usual form, or in-the form of an absolute bill Hunt
V.
of sale, the vendor taking a defeasance ; but does
r.
not state any agreement for that particular secu- Ioa.
rity.- The agreement stated in1 the bill is generally, that. the plaintiff, in addition to the notes of'
Rousmanier, sliould have specific security on the
vessels; and it alleges, that the parties applied to
couiiel for advice respecting the taost desirable
moile of taking this security. On a comparison
of the advantages and disadvantages of a mortgage, and an irrevocable power of attorney, counsel advised the latter instrument, and assigned
reasons for his advice, the validity of which being
aditted by the parties, the power of attorney
wai prepared and executed, and was received by
the ilaintiff as,full security for his loans.
This is the ease made by the amended bill;
and it appears -to the Court to be a case in which
the notes and power of attorney are admitted to
be h complete consummation of the agreement.
Tle thing stipulated was a collateral security on
the Nereus and Industry. On advice of counsel,
this power of attorneywas selected, and given as
that security. We thiul it a complete execution
of that part of the agreement;, as complete, though
not as safe an execution of it, as a mortgage would
have been.
It is contended, that the letter of attorney does
not contain all the terms of the agr'eement.
Neither would a bill of sale, nor a deed of mortgage, contain them. Neither instrument constitutes the agreement itself, but is that for which the
VOL. VMi.

27

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

agreement stipulated. The agreement consisted
of a loan of money on the part of Hunt, and of
Hunt
v.
notes for its repayment, and of a collateral secuRousmanier. rity on the Nereus and Industry, on the part of
Rousmanier. The money was advanced, the
notes were given, and this letter of attorney was,
on advice of counsel, executed and received as thi
collateral security which Hunt required. The
letter of attorney is as much an execution of that
part of the agreement which stipulated a collateral
security, as the notes are an execution of that part
which stipulated that notes should be given.
But this power, although a complete security
during the life of Rousmanier, has been rendered
inoperative by his death. The legal character of
the security was misunderstood by the parties.
They did not suppose, that the power would, in
law, expire with Rousmanier.
The question for the consideration of the Court
is this : If money be advanced on a general stipulation to give security for its repayment on a specific article; and the parties deliberately, on advice
of counsel, agree on a particular instrument, which
is executed, but, from a legal quality inherent in
its nature, that was unknown to the parties, becomes extinct by the death of one of them ; can
a Court of equity direct a new security of a different character to be given? or direct that to be
done which the parties supposed would have been
effected by the instrument agreed on between
them ?
This question has been very elaborately argued,
and every case has been cited which could be
1823.

211

OF THE UNITED STATES.

supposed to bear upon it. No one of these cases 1825.
decides the very question now before the Court.
Hfunt
It must depend on the principles to be collected
V.
Romsma1er.
from them..
It is a general rile, that an agreement in wriGenera,
• _ that
parol rui
tcs.
ting; or an instrument carrying an agreement into to,,y is not
to
tl
execution, shall not be varied by parol testimony,
stating conversations or circumstances anterior to nIns.on
thewritteninstrument.
-This rule is recognised in Courts of equity .asI cases
To ofequity
fraud
well as in Courts of law; but Courts of equity Qnd nmstako
grant relief in cases of fraid and mistake, which taths ro
cannot be obtained in Courts of law. In such
cases, a Court of equity may carry the intention
of the parties into execution, where the written.
agredment.fails to express that intention.
In this case, there is no ingredient of fraud.
Mistake is the sole -ground on which the plainiff
comes into Court; and that~mistake is in the law.
The. fict is, in all respects, what it was Pupposed
to be. -The instrument taken is the instrument
intended to be taken. Btit it is, contrary to the
expectation of the parties, extinguished.by an
event not foreseen nor adverted to, and is, therefore, incapable of effecting the objeet for which it
was given., Does a Court of equity, in such a
ease, substitute a different, instrument fior that
which Ias failed to effect its object ?
Lu general, the mistakes against which a Court T whatcas-

df equity relieves, are.mistakes 'in fact.

The de- equity will re-

cisions on -this subject, thodgh not always very distinctly stated, appear to be founded on some misconception of fact. Yet some of them bear a con-

n'
,rlY"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

siderable analogy to that under consideration.
Among these is that class of cases in which a joint
Hunt
V. obligation has been set up in equity againgt the
B usmuder. representatives of a deceased obligo'r, who were
I82S.

discharged at law. If the principle of these decisions be, that the bond was joint from a mere
mistake of the law, and that the Court will relieve
against this mistake on the ground of the pre-existing equity arising from the advance of the
money, it must be admitted, that they have a strong
bearing on the case at bar. But the Judges in
the Courts of equity,sQem to have placed them on
mistake in fact, arising from the ignorance of the
draftsman. In Simpson v. Vaughan," the bond
was drawn by the obligor himself, and under circumstances which induced the Court to be of opinion, that it was intended to be joint and several.
In Underkill v. Howard,' Lord Eldon, speaking
.of cases in which a joint bond has been set up
against the Tepresentatives of a deceased obligor,
says, " the Court has inferred, from the nature of
the eondition, and the transaction, that. it was
made joint by mistake. That is, the instrumept
is not what the parties intended in fact. They
intended a joint and several obligation; the sonivener has, by .mistake, prepared a joint obligation."
All the eases in which the Court has sustained
a joint bond against the representatives of the
,deceased obligor, have turned upon a supposed
mistake in drawing the bond. It was not until
a llAtk. 33.

b10 Ves. 209. 227.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

215

the case of Sumner v. Powell,- that any thing was 1825.
said by'the Judge who determined the cause, from
Hunt
which it might be inferred, that relief in these
V.
er.
cases would be afforded on any other principle Rous
ihan mistake in fact. In that case, the Court refused its aid, because there was no equity antecedent to the obligation. In delivering his judgment, the Master of the Rolls (Sir W. Grant) indicated very clearly an opinion, that a prior equitable consideration, received by the deceased, was
indispensable to the setting up of a joint obligation against his representatives; and added, "so,
where a joint bond has, in equity, been considered
as several, there has been a credit previously given
to the different persons who have entered into the
obligation."Had this case gone so far as to decide, that
the credit previously given" was the sole ground
on which a Court of -equity would consider a joint
bond as several, it would have gone far to show,
that the equitable obligation remained, and might
be enforced, after the legal obligation of the instrument had expired. But the case does not go
so far. It does not change the principle on which
the Court had uniformly proceeded, nor discard
the idea, that relief is to be granted because the
obligation was made joint by a mistake in point
of fact. The case only decides, that this mistake,
in point of fact, will not be presumed by the Court
in a case where. no equity existed antecedent to
the obligation, where no advantage was received
a 2 Meriv. 36.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182.
',

by, and no credit given to, the person against
whose estate the instrument is to be set up.

V.
Yet, the course of the Court seems to be uniRousmanier. form, to presume a mistake in point of fact in every

case where a joint obligation has been given, and
a benefit has been received by the deceased obligor. No proof of, actual mistake is required.
The existence of an antecedent equity is sufficient.
In cases attended by precisely the same circumstances, so far as respects mistake, relief will be
given against the representatives of a deceased
obligor, who had received the benefit of the obligation, and refused against the representatives of
him who had not received it. Yet the legal obligation is as completely extinguished in the one
case as in the other; and the facts stated, in some
of the cases in which these decisions have been
made, would rather conduce to the opinion, that
the bond was made joint from ignorarroe of the
legal consequences of a joint obligation, than from'
any mistake in fact.
The case of Landsdowne v. Landsdowne, (reported in Mosely,) if it be law, has no inconsiderable bearing on this cause. The right of the heir at
law was contested by a younger member of the
family, and the arbitrator to whom the subject
was referred decided against him. He executed
a deed in compliance with this award, and was
afterwards relieved against it, on the principle that
he was ignorant of his title.
The case does not suppose this fact, that he was
the eldest son, to have been -unknown to him;
and, if he was ignorant of any thiig, it was of the

OF THE UNITED

TATES.

215

law, which gave him, as eldest son, the estate he 1825.
had conveyed to a younger brother. Yet he was Huut
v.
relieved in Chancery against this conveyance.
Rousmanier.
dethis
to
objections
strong
There are certainly
cision in other respects; but, as a case in which
relief has been granted on a mistake in law, it
cannot be entirely disregarded.
Although we do not find the naked principle,
that relief may be granted on account of ignorance of law, asserted in the books, we find no
case in which it has been decided, that a plain and
acknowledged mistake in law is beyond the reach
of equity. In the case of Lord Irnhan v. Clild,a
application was made to the Chancellor to
establish a clause, which had been, it was said,
agreed upon, but which had been considered by
the parties, and excluded from the written instrument by consent. It is true, they excluded the
clause, from a mistaken opinion that it would make
the contract usurious, but they did not believe that
the legal effect of the contract was precisely the
same as if the clause had been inserted. They
weighed the consequences of inserting and omitting the clause, and preferred the latter. That,
too, was a case to which the statute applied. Most
of the cases which have been cited were within
the statute of frauds, and it is not easy to say how
much has been the influence of that statute on
them.
The ease cited by the respondent's counsel
from -Precedentsin Chancery, is not of this dea I Bro. Ch. Cas. 91.

216

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

scription ; but it. does not appear from thit case,
unt that the power of attorney was intend-ecd or beV. lieved, to be a lien.
flouanier.
In this case, the fact of mistake is placed beyond any controversy. It is averred in the bill, and
ddmitted by the demurrer, that " the powers of
attorney were.given by the said Rousmanier, and
received by the said Hunt, under the belief that
they were, and with the intention that they should
create, a specific lien and security on the said vessels."
We find no case which we think precisely in
point; and are unwilling, where the effect of the
instrument is acknowledged to have been entirely
misunderstood by both parties, to say, that a
Court of equity is incapable of affording relief.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed;
but as this is a case in which creditors are coftcerned, the Court, instead of giving a fihal decree
on the demurrer in favour of the plaintiff, directs
the cause to be remanded, that the Circuit Court
may. perffit the defendants to. iwithdrttw their demurrer, and to answer the bill.
18323.

DECREE.

This cause came on to be heard on,

the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Rhode
Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the
said Circuit Court erred in sustaining the demurrer of the defenddnts, and dismissing the bill of*
the complainant. It is, therefore, DECREED and
ORDERED, that the decree of the said Circuit

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

Court in this case, be, and the same is hereby re- 1823,
versed and annulled. And it is further ordered; -Goldsbothat the said cause be remanded to the said Cir- rouh
cuit Court, with directions to permit the defendorr.
ants to withdraw their demurrer, and to answer
the bill of the complainants.

[LOCAL LAw.

CovENA.-.1

Plaintiff in Error v. ORR,
Defendant in Error.

GOLDSBOROUGH,

Where the acts stipulated to be done are to be done at different
times, the covenints are to be construed as independent of each
other.Application of this principle to the peculiar circumstances of the
present case.
Under the act of assembly of Maryland of 1795, (c. 56.) if the defendant appears,,and dissolves the attachment, a declaration and
subsequent pleadings are not necessary, as in other ;ctions, but the
cause may be tried upon a short note.
1R seems, under the same act, that an attachment will not lie in a case
ex capdractu for unrlquidated damages for the non-delivery of
goods. But where the plaintiff is entitled to a stipulated sum of
money, in lieu of a specific article- tn be delivered, an attachment
will lie.

THIS cause was argued at the last term by Feb&t'1,
Mr. Lear,a .for the plaintiff in error, nd by Mr. and .adi
Jonws,b for the defendant.
a He cited i Jac.Law Dict. 160. 3 Har-. 4' AlHenr. Rep.
347. 1 Hart. 4- Johns. Rep. 491. 6 East's Rep. 614. 1 ].
BL 363. S East'sRep.93.
b He cited 1 Com. Di'g. 598 B.

Vo1. VIII.

28

