CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Society, &c.
V.

Neow-Haven.

[CoZNSTITUTONAr. La.w.

CHARITABLE USE.]

THE SOCIETY FOR THE PROPAGATION OF THE GOSPEL IN FOREIGN PARTS
V.
THE.TowN OF NEW-HAVEN, ANb WILLIAM
WHERLER.
A corporation for religious and charitable purposes, which is endowed
solely by private benefactions, is a private eleemosynary corporation, although it is created by a charter from the government.
The capacity of private individuals, (British subjects,) or of corporations, created by the crown, in this country, or in Great Britain,
to hold lands or other property in this country, was not affected by
the Revolution.
The proper Courts in this country will interfere to prevent an abuse
of the trusts confided to British corporations holding lands hero to
charitable uses, and will aid in enforcing the due execution of the
trusts; but neither those Courts, nor the local le, islature where the
lands lie, can adjudge a forfeiture of the franchises of the foreign
corporation, or of its property.
The property of British corporations, in this country, is protected by
the 6th article of the treaty of peace of 1785, in the same manner
as thosf of natur-al persons; and their title, thus protected, Is. confirmed by the 9th article of the treaty of 1794, so that it could not
be forfeited by any intermediate legislativ.e act, or other proceeding,
for the defect tf alienage.
The termination of a treaty, by war, does inot devest rights of property already vested under it.
Nor do treaties, in general, become extinguished, ipsofato,by.war
between th6 two governments. Those stipulating for a permanent
arrangement of territorial, a*ad other national rights, are, at most,
Suspended during the war, and revive at the peace, unless they are
waived by, the parties, or new and repugnant sTipulations are
piade.
The'act of the legislature of Vermont, of the 80th of October, 1794,
granting the landi in that State, belonging to "The Society for
Propagating the Gospel inForeign Parts," to the respective towns
in which the lands lie, is void, and conveys no tide under it.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

THIS case came before, the Court upon a cer- 182.tificate of a division in opinion of the Judges of Soci~ty, r
v.
the Circuit Court for the District of Vermont.
Now-Haven.
the
by
brought
It was an action of ejectment,
plaintiffs against the defendants, in that Court.
The material facts, upon which thd question of
law arose, were stated in a special verdict, and
are as follow:
By a charter granted by William III., in the
thirteenth year of his reign, a number of persons,
subjects of England, and there- residing, were
incorporated by the name of " The Society for
the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts,"
in order that a better provision might be made for
the preaching of the gospel, and the maintenance
of an orthodox clergy in the colonies of Great
Britain. The usual corporate powers were bestowed upon this society, and, amongst others, it
was authorized to purchase estates of inheritance
to the- value of 2000 pounds per annum, and
estates for lives or years, and goods and chattels,
of any value. This charter of incorporation was
duly accepted by the persons therein named ; and
the corporation has ever since existed, and now
exists, as an organized body politic and corporate,
in England, all the members thereof being subjects of the king of Great Britain.
On the 2d of November, 1761, a grant was
made by the governor of the province of NewHampshire, in the name of the king, by which a
certaintract of land, in that province, was granted
to the inhabitants of the said province, and of the
king's other governments, and to their heirs and
VOL. VIIL

59

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182,.

assigns, whose names were entered on the grant,
tract so granted, was to be incorporated
Sv.ety, & into a town, by the name of New-Haven, and to
New-sae. be divided into sixty-eight shares, one of which
'The

was granted to "The Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel in Foreign Parts." The tract of
land, thus granted, wasdivided among the grantees
by sundry votes and proceedings of a majority Qf
them; which, by the law and usage of Vermnont,
render such partition legal. The premises demanded by the plaintiffs, in this ejectment, were
set off to them in the above partition, but they had
no agency in the division, nor was it necessary, by
the law and usage of Vermont, in order to render
the same valid.
On the 30th of October, 1794, the Legislature
of Vermont passed an act, declaring, that the
rights to land in that State, granted under the au-thority of the British government, previous to the
revolution, to " The Society for the Propagation
of the Gospel in Foreign Parts," were thereby
granted severally to the respective towns in which
such lands lay, and to their use for ever. The act
then pr.oceeds to -authorize the selectmen of each
town, to sue for and recover such lands, if neoessary, and to lease them out, reserving an annual
rent, to be appropriated to the support of schools.
Under this law, the selectmen of the town of
New-Haven executed a perpetual lease of a part
of the demanded premises, to the defendant,
William Wheeler, on the 10th of February, 1800,
reserving an annual rent of 5 dollars and 50 cents;
immediately after which, the said Wheeler entered

OF THE UNITED STATES.

upon the land so leased, and has ever since held 182$.
the possession thereof. Similar donations were Sodety,
&c.
made, about the same time with the above grant,
T.
to the plaintiffs, of laids lying within the limits New-Havw.
of Vermont, by the governor of New-Hampshire,
in the name of the king; but-the plaintiffs never
entered upon -such lands, nor upon the demanded
premises, nor in any manner asserted a claim or
title thereto, until the commencement of this suit.
The verdict found a number of acts of the
State of Vermont respecting imprbvements or
settlements, and also the limitation of actions;
but as the discussions at the bar did not involve
any questions connected with those acts, those
parts of the special verdict need not be more particularly noticed.
Upon this special verdict, the Judges of the
Court below were divided in opinion upon the
question, whether judgment should be rendered
for the plaintiffi or defendants, and the question
was thereupon certified to this Court.
-The cause was argued at the last term by Mr.
Hopkinson, for the plaintifif, dand by Mr. Webster,
for the defendants. and continued to the present
term for advisement.

M. Hpkmsoi, for the plaintiffs, stated, that Fb. 15a,
18"2
the act of the legislature of Vermont, of the aoth
of October, 1794, coua have no effect upon the
tle of the corporation, unless the principle upon
which it purports to have been enacted, is sound
and egaL Two reasons are- assigned in the pre-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. amble to the act: (1.). That, by the custom and
v' -' usages of nations, no aliens can, or of right ought,
Society, &C.
V.

to hold real estate in a country to whose jurisdic-

Ne,-Haven. tion they cannot be made amenable.

(2.) That

the plaintiffs being a corporation erected by, and
existing within a foreign jurisdiction, to which
they alone are amenable, by reason lphereof,at the
time of the late revolution of this State, and of
the United States, from the jurisdiction of Great
Britain, all lands in the State, granted to the plaintiffs, became vested in the State, and have since
that time remained unappropriated, &c. if these
-positions were. true, then the plaintiffs cannot recover, independently of this act, which has no
other effect than to vest the land, or the title thus
accrued, in the State, or their grantees, the town
schools. If, on the other hand, the position was
untrue, the right of the plaintiffs remains unimpaired, and they are .ntitled to recover possession
of the lands in the present action.
Against these positions, he would contend,
(1.) That the general position, that no alien can
'hold real property in this country, is contradicted,
at least as to all titles vested in British suqects,
prior to the 4th of July, 1776, by the uniform and
settled lecision of this and other Courts;' both
upon the general principle, that the division of
an empire makes no change in private rights of
property, and under the operation of the treaties
between the United States and Great Britain.
(2.) That, independently of these treaty provisions, the title of an alien is not devested from
him, nor vested in the State, until office found.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1. There is no general law or custom of na-

469

1823.

tions, preventing aliens from holding lands in the Society, Up-.
different states of the world. It depends upon
V.

the municipal law of each particular nation, and, New-Huv.
in this country, upon that of the several States in
the Union. There are various regulations on the
subject, in the different States; -and non constat,
by the special verdict, 'Out what aliens, in general,
may hold lands in Vermont. Be this. as it may,
the treaties of 1783 and 1794, form a paramount
law in that State, and in all the States. In the
case- of the Society, 4-c. v. Wkeelera this same
corporation was sought to be defeated in its right
to recover its lands in New-Hampshire, not merely
as aliens, but as alien enemies. But the Court
held, that a license from the government to sue
might be presumed, there being no evidence to
the contrary; and as to the general principle of
the right of an alien to bring an action for real
property, Mr. Justice Story said, that there was
"' no pretence for holding that the mere alienage
of the demandants would form a valid bar to the
recovery in this case, supposing the two countries
were at peace; for, however it might be true, in
general, that an alien cannot maintain a real
action, it is very clear, that either upon the ground
of the 9th article of the treaty of 1794, or upon
the more general ground, that the division of an
empire works no forfeiture of rights previously
acquired, for any thing that appears on the prea 2 Gais. Rep. 127.

470

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\

'qp .

V.

sent record, the present adtion might well be
maintained."
Thi-treaty of 1783 forbids all forfeitures on

New-Haven. either side.

That of* 1794 provides, that the

citizens and subjects of both nations, holding
lands, (thereby strongly implying that there were
no forfeitures by the revolution,) shall continue to
hold, according to the tenure of their estates;
that they may sell and devise them; and shall not,
so far as respects these lands, and the legal remedies to obtain them, be considered as aliens.
In the-.case of fielly v. Harrisona which was
that of an alien widow of a citizen of the lUnited
States, the Supreme Court of New-York held,
that the plaintiff was entitled to recover dower of
lands, of whih her husband was seised, prior to
the 4th of July, 1776, but not of lands subsequently acquired. The British treaties were not
considered by the Court as bearing on the case.
It was, therefore, the naked question, of the effect of the revolution, even upon a contingent
right to real property, acquired antecedent to the
revolution. In the siune case, Mr. Chief Justice
Kent sayB, " I admit the doctrine to be sound,
(Calvin's Case, 7 (o. 27 b. Kirby'sRep. 413.) that
the division of an empire works no forfeiture of a
right previously acquired. The revolution left the
demandant where she was before. ' The case of
Jackson v. Lunn,@ gives the same principle, and
a 2 Joln. Cas. 29.
b Id. 32.
c s Johns. Cas. 109.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

471

also recognises the treaty of 1794, as confirming I23.
the title of persons holding lands.
Socriety, w
v.
In Harden v. Fisher,a which was also under
the treaty of 1794, this Court held, .that it was New-Haven.
not necessary for the party to show a seisin in
fact, or actual possession of the land, but only
that the title was in him, or his ancestors, at the
time the treaty was made. The treaty applies to
his title, as existing at that epoch, and gives it the
same legal validity as if he were a citizen. In a
subsequent case, Jackson v. Clark,b where the
point was, whether an alien enemy could make a
will of lands in New-York, or convey his estate
in any manner, the Court would not hear an argument, it being settled by former decisions.' In
Orr v. Hodgson," the Court confirmed the same
doctrine, and also determined, that the 6th article
of the treaty of 1783, was not meant to be confined to confiscations jure belli; but completely
protected the titles of British subjects from forfeiture by escheat for the defect of alienage. But
the great leading case on this subject, is that of
Fairfax v. Hunter,' where the operation of the
treaty of 1794 was determined as confirming the
titles of British subjects, even where there had
been a previous cause of forfeiture, but no office
found, or other proceeding to assert the right of
the State. And in Terett v. Taylor, which was
a 1 Wheat. Rep. 300.
6 3 Wheat. Rejp.I.
c
d
e
f

Id. 12. Note c, and the authorities there collected.
4 Wheat. Rep. 453.
7 Cranch'sRep. 603. S. C. 1 Wheat. Rep. S04.
9 Cranch's Rep. 43.

472

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. the case. of an ecclesiastical corporation, it was
v
held, that the dissolution of the regal government
Society, &-c.
V. no more destroyed the right to possess and enjoy
New-Haven. the property, than it did of any other corporation
or incividual, the division of an empire creating
no forfeiture of vested rights of property.
2. At all events, the alien lost no right, and the
State acquired none, until office found.
It is firmly settled by the uniform decisions of
this Court, and of the most respectable State
Courts, that an alien may take an interest in lands,
and hold the same against all the world, except
the government, and even against itr until office
found."
If, then, the plaintiffs are to be considered as
aliens, and labour under no other disability, it is
clear, that their title to the lands in question remains unimpaired, and as it existed previous to
the 4th of July, 1776; and this upon three
grounds: (1.) Of the general law on the division
of an empire. (2.) Of the operation of the treaties of 1783 and 1794. (3.) On the ground,
that the title of the State acquired by forfeiture,
if any, had not been asserted by, nor that of the
plaintiffs devested by, an inquest of office. And,
consequently, that the first position assumed by
the Legislature of Vermont to justify its act, is unfounded in law.
The second ground taken by the Legislature is,
a Fairfax v. Hunter, 7 Cranch'sRep. 603. 1 Wheat. Rep. 304.
Craig v. Leslie, 3 Wheat. Rep. 563. Jackson v. Beach, 1 Johns.

Cas. 399.

Jackson v. Lunn, f Johns. Cas. 109.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

that the plaintiffs having become a foreign corpo- 1823.
ration by the revolution, could not continue to
Society, kr.
hold lands in this country after that event.
v.
This presents the single question, whether an New-Haven.
alien corporationis in a different situation, in this
respect, from an alien individual? On the part
of the plaintiffs, we contend, that all the legal
principles and rules which go to protect the title
of an individual, will equally avail to protect that
of a corporation ; and that, whether the security
of the former is founded upon the geL ,ral law as
to the division of an empire, or upon the peculiar
stipulations of the treaties of 1783 and 1794, or
the defect of an inquest of office.
In this case, although the trust is in' aliens, the
use is to citizens of our own country - and the forfeiture would, therefore, only affect those in whom
the beneficial interest is vested. On what ground
ean it be insisted, that a British corporation, holding lands in this country, in trust for British subjects prior to the declaration of independence, forfeited the lands at that epoch, and that they became ipsofacto vested in the State where they lie,
without office found, or other equivalent legal ceremony ? If there be no such principle of law, and
if, where the whole interest is British, it is protected, why should it not be equally protected
where the real beneficial interest is American, and
the trusteeship only is British ? It is obvious,
that the revolution has nothing to do with the
question. The position assumed by the Legislature of Vermont, must stand or fall, independent
of that circumstance, and it& introduction only
VoL. VIII.

60

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

v &e.
.Society,

tends to confuse the inquiry. The broad position
is, that at no time, nor under any circumstances,
can a foreign corporation, or trustee, hold lands in

New-Haven.

this. country for any use whatever.

1823.
V.

And why is

it thought indispensably necessary, that the corporation, which in-this case is the trustee, should be
locally within our jurisdiction ? The answer will
be, undoubtedly, in order to prevent neglect, or
abuse of the trust. But that is properly a matter
between the trustee and the cestuis que trust;
and it is a strange remedy to take the property
from both, least the former should impose upon the
latter. If abuses should be found to exist, an appropriate legal remedy may easily be found. In
England, alienage is no plea in abatement in the
case of a corporation. By the old law, an abbot
or prior alien, could have an action real, personal,
or mixed, forany thing concerning the possessions
or goods of the monastery, because they sue in
their corporate capacity, and not in their own right
to carry the effets out of the kingdom.a The
circumstance, that the execution of the trust is in
England, is here regarded. A corporation can
have no local habitation. The disability must result from the character of the individual members.
Thus, it is held, that a body corporate, as such,
cannot be a citizen of any particular State of the
Union; and its right to sue, or not to sue, in the
federal Courts, depends solely upon the character
of the individual members.b
a Co. Litt. 129 a.

b Hope Ins. Co. v. Boardman, 5 Cranc6'o Rep. .57. Bank of
the U. S. v. Deveaux, 5 Cranch'eRep. 61.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Whatever danger there may be from a foreign

475
1823.

corporation holding lands in this country, it can Society, &c.

V.
only be a reason for restraint and regulation, but
New-Havm.
executhe
If
forfeiture.
not for confiscation and
tion of the trust can be regulated otherwise than
according to the charter, it must be from the necessity of the case only ; and the legislative interference must not go beyond providing an adequate
remddy by some appropriate judicial proceeding.
To say, that the corporation, so far as respects
these lands, is dissolved by the revolution, is to
say, that the lands are forfeited by the revolution.
The trust remains, the corporate body remains,
the land remains; but all connexion between
them (that is, the right of the corporation to hold
in trust for the same purposes) is dissolved by the
separation of the empire. It is only necessary to
state this .proposition, to show its inconsistency
with the well established principles of law.
Mr. Webster, contra, contended, 1. That the
capacity of the plaintiffs, as a corporation, to hold
lands in Vermont, ceased by, and as a consequence
of, the revolution.
2. That the Society for Propagating the Gospel,
being in its politic capacity a foreign corporation,
is incapable of holding lands in Vermont, on the
ground of alienage; and that its rights are not
protected by the treaties of 1783 and 1794.
3. That if those rights were so protected, the
effect of the late war between the United States
and Great Britain, was such, as to put an end to
those treaties, and, consequently, to rights derived

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

under them, unless they had been revived by the
treaty of peace at Ghent, which was not done.
Society, kc.
V.
He argued on the first and second points, that
New-Haven. the dismemberment of the British empire dissolved
1823.

this corporation, so far as respects its capacity to
hold lands in this country., not merely because
they are aliens, but from the peculiar circumstances
of the case. The society is such a corporation
as cannot hold lands in England, under the statutes, of mortmain, . without a license from the
crown, which they have in their charter. But this
license does not extend to authorize them to hold
lands in the colonies. The statutes of mortmain
do not extend to the colonies.a In the interpretation of treaties, the probable intention of the
framers is to be taken as the guide, and the sense
of the terms they use is to be limited and restrained by the circumstances of the case.' The
British treaties are to be construed, not only as to
a Attorney General v. Stewart, 2 Merie. Rep. 143.
b Vattel, Droit des Gens, 1.2. c. 17. s. 270. Entrons maintenant dans le d6tail des regles sur lesquelles l'interpr6tation
doit se diriger, pour -tre juste et droite. 1. Puisque I'interpr6tation legitime d'un acte.ne doit tendre qu'a d6couvrir Ia pens6e de
'auteur, on des auteurs de cet acte, d%s qu'on y rencontre guelgue
obscuriti, it faut chercher quelle a W vraisemblablement la pen8ie de ceux qui L'ont drese4 et Pinterpr~teren consquence. C'est
la regle g~n6rale de toute interpr6tation. Elle sert particuli6rement A fixer le sens de certaines expressions, dont ]a signification
n'est pas suffisament d6termin6e. En vertu de cette regle, ilfaut
prendre ces expressions dans le sens le plus 6tendu, quand ilest
vaisemblable que celui qui parle a eu en vue tout ce-qu'elles d6signent dans ce sens 6tendu: et au contraire, on dolt en resserer
]a signification, s'il paroit que lauteur a born6 sa pens6e a ce qui
est compris dan6 le sens le plus resserr6."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

477

the sort of title meant to be protected, but also 1823.
the sort of persons and property meant to be Society,
protected.

The mere personal disability of Bri-

V.

tish subjects to hold lands, is taken away. They New-Have.
are protected against escheat. But corporations,
such as this, ought to be considered as impliedly excepted from this provision. This might
well be contended, even as to those who have a
beneficial proprietary interest, and a fortiori, as
to such as are mere trustees.

In the present case,

the revolution has violently separated the trustees
from the property, and from the cestuis que trust.
The former are in a foreign country, the latter are
here. Can it be imagined, that the treaties meant
to take from the Courts of equity of this country
the ordinary power of enforcing the trust, or of
changing the trustee in case of abuse or inability
to perform his trust, independent of the statute of
Elizabeth ? But if the Legislature cannot change
the trustee, neither can the Courts. Reciprocity
lies at the foundation of all treaties between nations. But the English Court of Chancery has
determined, that it cannot enforce a trust connected with a charity in this country. Thus, Lord
Thurlow took the administration of a charity,
under an appointment by the trustees, and a plan
confirmed by a decree of the Court, out of the
hands of William and Mary College, in Virginia,
because the trustees bad become foreign subjects
by the separation of the two countries; and even
denied costs to the college, because its existence
as a corporation had not been, and could not be

478

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

proved since the revolution.a So, also, where the
~ State of Maryland claimed certain bank stock,
which had been vested in the hands of trustees in
New.Haven. England, by the colony of Maryland, before the
revolution, the claim was rejected by Lord Rosslyn, upon the ground, that the colonial government, which existed under the king's charter, was
dissolved by the revolution, and though Great
Britain had acknowledged the State of Maryland,
yet the property which belonged to a corporation,
which had thus become a foreign corporation, or
been dissolved, could not be transferred to a body
which did not exist under the authority of the
British government. The new State could take
only such rights of the old as were within their
jurisdiction, and the fund, no object of the trust
existing, must be considered as bona vacantia at
the disposal of the crown.
in the case now before this Court, either the
corporation is dissolved, or it has become a foreign
corporation. If it still exists, for any purpose, it
may forfeit its franchises for non-user or misusor.
If its franchises are forfeited, a forfeiture of its
property follows as a matter of course. But how
is a quo warranto, or any other process, to go
against it from our Courts ? And if the proceeding is in the English Courts, to whom is the property to revert ? It is plain, that it can revert to
a The Attorney General v. City of London, 1 Vesey, jr. 243.
3 Bro. Ch. Cas. 171.
b Barclay v. Russel, 3 Ves. jr. 424. Dolder v. The Batik of
England, 10 Ves. 354.

OF TIIE UNITED STATES.

470

no other than the grantor, i. e. the State of Ver- 1823.
mont representing the crown.
v.
Here, the State, instead of proceeding in a
New-Have.
a
present
to
or
trust,
Court of equity to-enforce a
new seheme for -he administration of the charity,
has proceeded to escheat the property for defect
of alienage in those who claim the legal title.
This it has done directly by a legislative act, and
not through an inquest of office, or any analogous
ceremony, which was unnecessary.'
Upon the third point, lie argued, that even supposing the treaties of 1783 and 1794 protected
the rights of property of the plaintiffs, whether
beneficial or fiduciary, yet the late war abrogated
such provisions of those treaties as were not revived by the peace of Ghent. The general rule
certainly is, that whatever subsists by treaty, is
lost by war.' Peace merely restores the two nations to their 7natural state.c
a Smith v. Maryland, 6 Cranch's Rep. 286. Fairfax v. Hunter, 7 Cranch's Rep. 622.
b farten's Law of Nations, 1. 2. c. 1. s. 8. Vattel, 1.3. c.
10. s. 175. 94Les conventions, les trait6s faits avec une nation,
sont rompus on annull6s par la guerre qui s'6leve entre les contractans; soit parce qu'ils suppose tacitement Petat de paix, soit
parceque ch~cun pouvant d~pnuiller son ennemi de ce quri hi appartient, lui 6te les droits qu'Il luiavoit donn~s par des trait~s.
Cependant il faut excepter les traitis o6z on stipule certaines choses
ea cas de rupture; par exemple le temps qui sera donn6 aux sujets,
de part et -dautre,pour se retirer; la neutralit6 assuree d'un commun consentement i. une vile, ou Elune province, &c. Puisque,
par des trait~s de cette nature. on veut pourvoir A ce qui devra
s'observer en cas de rupture, on renonce au droit de les annuller
par.la d6claration de guerre."
c Vattel, 1. 4. c. 1. s. 8. 1-Les effets g6n6raux et n6cessaires de

480"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Foreigners cannot, independent of conventional
stipulations, by the general usage of nations, or
by the common law, bold lands in this country.
New-Hven. This pre-existing law, therefore; revives; there
being no recognition in the treaty of Ghent of the
articles of the former treaties, excepting British
subjects from the operation of the rule.
18,3.
~
s,

arc 1IW,
18zS.

Mr. Justice WASHINGTON delivered the opinion
of the Court, and, after stating the case, pro-

ceeded as follows:
It has been contended by the. counsel for the
defendants,
1st. That the capacity of the plaintiffs, -as a
corporation, to hold lands in Vermont,- ceased by,
and as a consequence of, the revolution.
2dly. That the society being, in its politic capacity, a foreign corporation, it is incapable of
holding land in Vermont, on the ground of alienage; and that its.rights are not protected l y the
treaty of peace. •
3dly. That if they were so protected, still, the
effect of the last war between the United States
and Greai Britain, was to put an end to that
treaty, and, consequently, to rights derived under
it, unless they had been. revived by the treaty of
peace, which was~not done.
The society to
1. Before entering upon an examination of the
be conAdered
as
a private first
objection,
to premise, that
eleemosynary
..
.
. it may be proper
;
"
cororaion. this society is to be considered as a private eleela paix sont de reconcilier lea ennemis et de fair cesser de part et
d'autre toute hostilit6. EUe remet lea deux nations dans leur etat
natureD'"

OF THE UNITED STATES.

481

mosynary corporation, although it was created by 182.
a charter from the crown, for the administration Society,&c
of a public charity. The endowment of the corv.
Nw-Have..
benethe
from
solely
derived
poration, was to be
factions-of those who might think proper to bestow them,, and to this end the society was made
capable to purchase and receive real estates, in
fee, to a certain annual value, and also estates
for life, and for years, and all manner of goods
and chattels to any amount.
When the defendants'
counsel contends, that to Its
. ....
bold=P20ty
lands,
the incapacity of this corporation to hold lands in hot afrected by
Vermont, is a consequence of the revolution, he the reoluion
is not understood to mean, that the destruction of
civil. rights, existing at the close of the revolution,
was, generally speaking, a consequence of the
dismemberment of the empire. If that could
ever have been made a serious question, it has
long since been settled in this and other Courts of
the United States. In the case of Dawson's lessee
v. Godfrey, (4 Cranch, 323.) it was laid down
by the Judge who delivered the opinion of the
Court, that the effeqt of the revolution was not to
deprive an individual of his civil rights; and in
the case of Terret v. Taylor, (9 Cranch, 43.)
and of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, (4
Wkeat. Rep. 518.) the Court applied the same
principle to private, corporations existing within
the United States at the period of the revolution.
It is very obvious, from the course of reasoning
adopted in the two last cases, that the Court was
not impressed by any circumstance peculiar to
such corporations, which distinguished them, in
Vr. Vii
61

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

this respect, from natural persons; on the con-

Society,
S .Lc.

trary, they were placed upon precisely the same
ground. In Terret v. Taylor, it was
stated,

'

New-Haven.

that the dissolution of the regal government, no
more destroyed the rights of the church to possess and enjoy the property which belonged to it,
than it did the right of any other corporation ox
individual, to his or its own property. In the latter case, the Chief Justice, in reference to the
corporation of the college, observes, that it is too
clear to require the support of argument, that all
eontracts and rights respecting property remained
unchanged by the revolution; and the same sentimept was enforced, more at length, by the other
Judge who noticed .this point in the cause.
The counsel then intended, no doubt, to confine this objection to a corporation consisting ol
British subjects, and existing in its corporate
capacity in England, which is the very case
under consideration. But if it be true, that there
is no difference between a corporation and a natural person, in respect to their capacity to hold
real property; if the civil rights of both are the
same, and are equally unaffected by the dismemberment of the empire, it is difficult to perceive upon
what ground the civil rights of a British corporation should be lost, as a consequence of the revolution, when it is admitted, that those of an individual would remain unaffected by the same circumstance.
But, it is contended by the counsel, that the
principle so firmely established, iiL relation to cor-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

porations existing in the United States, at the 1823.
period of the revolution, is inapplicable to this
Society, &P.
r
corporation, inasmuch as the Courts of Vermont
V.
can exercise no jurisdiction over it, to take away New-Haven.
its franchises, in case of a forfeiture of them, by
misuser or nonuser, or in any manner to change
the trustees, however necessary such interference
might be, for the due administration and management of the charity. If this be a sound reason
for the alleged distinction, it would equally apply
to other trusts, where the trustees happened to be
British subjects, residing in England, and entitled to lands in Vermont, not as a corporate body,
but as natural persons, claiming under a common
grant. The question of amenability to, the tribunals of Vermont, would be the same in both cases,
as would be the consequent incapacity of both to
hold the property to which they had an unquestionable legal title at the period of the revolution.
It is very true, as the counsel has insisted, that
the Courts of Vermont might not have jurisdiction in the specified cases; and it is quite clear,
that were they to exercise it, and decree a forfeiture of the franchises of the corporation, or
the removal of the trustees, the plaintiffs would
not be less a corporation, clothed with all its corporate rights and franchises.
But it'is not perceived by the Court, how this Executionsof
t t h oexemption of the corporation from the jurisdic- id
t
ciety, howaention of a foreign Court to forfeit its franchises, orfocd.
to interfere in its maiagement of the charity, can
destroy, or in any manner affect its civil rights, or
its apacity to hold and enjoy the property legally

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

484
1823.

vested in it. It would surely be an extraordinary
law, which should visit such a corporation with the same consequences, on account of
a want of jurisdiction in the Courts of the ountry

Sprinciple-of
Society, &c.

V.

New-Haven.

where the property lies to inquire into its conduct, as would happen if, after such an inquiry,
judicially made, the corporation should be found
to have forfeited its franchises; in other words,
that the possibility that the corporation might
commit a forfeiture, which the law will not presume, or might require the interference of a Court
of Chancery to enforce the due administration of
the charter, which might never happen, should
produce a forfeiture, or something equivalent to
it, of the very funds which were, in whole, or in
part, to feed and sustain the charity. This, nevertheless, seems to be the amount of the argument,
and it is deemed by the Court too unreasonable
to be maintained, unless it appeared to be warranted by judicial decisions. It would seem, that
the State in which the property lies ought to be
satisfied, that the Courts of the country in which
the corporation exists, will not permit it to abuse
the trusts confided to it, or to want their assistance,
when. it may be required to enable it to perform
them in a proper way.
Were it even to be admitted, that the Legislature of Vermont was competent to pronounce a
sentence of forfeiture of the property belonging
to this corporation, upon the ground of its having
abused, or not used its franchises, still, the act of
1794 does not profess to have proceeded upon
that ground. The only reasons assigned in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

preamble of the act, for depriving the plaintiffs of

485
1823.

this property, are, 1. That, by the custom and

usages of nations, aliens cannot, and ought not to SocietY,&.
hold real..estate in a country to whose jurisdiction New-HaVen.
they cannot be made amenable; and, 2. That this
corporation, being created by, and existing within
a foreign jurisdiction, all lands in the State, granted
to the said society, became vested, by the revolution, in that State. For aught that appears to the
contrary, the society was, at the moment when
the act passed, fulfilling the trusts confided to it in
the best manner for promoting the benevolent and
laudable objects of its incorporation. It may further be remarked, that the effect of this act is not
merely to deprive the corporation of its legal control over the charity, so far as respects the property in question, but to destroy the trusts altogether, by transferring the property to other persons, and for other uses, than those to which they
were originally destined by the grant made to the
society.
The case chiefly relied upon by the defendants'
counsel, in support of his first point, was that of
the Attornei General v. The City of Lzdon,
(1 Yes. jr. 247. and 3 Bro. C. Cas. 171.) under
the will of Mr. Boyle, which directed the residue
of his estate to be laid out by his executors for
charitable, and other pious uses, at their disc.retion. They purchased, under a decree of the Court
of Chancery, the manor of Brafferton, which they"
conveyed to the city of London, upon trust, to lay
out the rents and profits in the advancement of
t*e Christian religion amonginfidels, as the Bishop

CASES hN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

of London, and one of the executors, should apSpoint,
such appointment to be confirmed by a deSociety, &~c.
il.
cree of the Court of Chancery. The trustees
New-Haven. appointed a certain part of the rents and profits

to be paid to an agent in London, for the college
of William and Mary in Virginia, for the purpose
of maintaining and educating in the Christian religion, as many Indian children as the fund would
support; the president, &c. of the college to transmit accounts of their receipts and expenditures
yearly to the Court of Chancery, and to be subject to certain rules then prescribed, and to such
others as should thereafter be adopted with the
approbation of the Court. This appointment was
ratified by a decree of the Court of Chancery.
The objectof the information was to have the disposition of this charity taken from. the college,
and that the master should lay before the Court a
new scheme for the future disposition of the charity. The new scheme was ordered by the Chancellor, upon the ground, that the college, belonging to an independent government, was no longer
under the control of the Court.
The difference between that case and the present is, that in that, the president, &c. of the college were not the trustees appointed by the will
of Mr, Boyle, or by his executors, to manage the
charity, but were the mere agents of the trustees
for that purpose, or rather the servants of the Court
of Chancery, as they are styled by the counsel foi
the college, in the administration of the charity,
subject to such orders and rules as might be prescribed by the trustees, and sanctioned by the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Chancellor. The college had a mere authority
to dispose of the charity, but without any interest
whatever in the fund.

The trustees resided in

487
182s.
Society, &c.

.

England, and there too was the fund. The pre- New-Haven.
sident, &c. of the college derived all their authority from the trustees, and from the Court of
Chancery. To that Court they were accountable,
and were necessarily removable by the Court,
whenever it should appear to the Chancellor to
be necessary for the due administration of the
charity.
In the present case, the plaintiffs were, at the
period of the revolution, entitled to the legal
estate in the land in question, under a valid and
subsisting grant; and the only question is, whether
the estate so vested in them, was deyested by the
revolution, and became the property of the State?
We have endeavoured to show that it was not.
The case of Barclay v. Russel, (3 Fes. 424.)
was also mentioned by the defendants' counsel,
and ought, therefore, to be noticed by the Court.
That was a claim on the part of the State of Maryland, of certain funds which had been vested in
trustees in London, before the American revbludon, by the old government of Maryland, in trust
for certain specific purposes. The case is long,
and rather obscurely reported; but in the case of
Dolben v. The Bank of England,(10 Ves. 352.)
the Lord Chancellor states the ground upon which
the claim was rejected. His lordship observes,
that "that was a case in which the old government existed under the king's charter, and a revolution took place, though the new government

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

182.$.
V

V.

was acknowledged by this *country. Yet, it was
held, that the property, which belonged to a cor-

poration existing under the king's charter, was not

New-Haven. transferred to a body which did not exist under

his authority, and, therefore, the fund in this
country was considered to be bon.k vacantia belonging to the crown.
Another, and, perhaps, a more intelligible reason, is assigned in the case itself, namely, that the
funds were "vsted by the old government in the
hands of the trustees, by the dct of 1733, for certain specific trusts, the execution of which was
then tendered impossible. "There is no specific purpose," says the Chancellor, (Ithat the will
of the present government can point out, for
which purpose, according to the originad creation of the trust, I can direct the trustee to transfer. It is, therefore, the common case of a trust,
without any, specific purpose to which it can be
applied; the consequence 'of which is, that the
right to dispose of this money is vested in the
crown."
Now, it is quite clear, that if the premises upon
which this case was decided were correct, the conclusion is so. The old government was treated
as a corporation, which ceased to exist as such by
the new form of government, deriving its name,
its existence, and its constitution, from a totally
different source from that under which the old
corporation existed. The old corporation no longer existed, the consequence of which was precisely that which would take place, in case of
the dissolution of any private corporation; their

OF THE UJNITED STATES.

489

legal rights would cease, and would not descend
or pass to the new corporation.

So, too, if the

specific purpose for which the trust was created

1823.
Society, tv.

V.

had ceased, the disposition of the fund clearly New-Haven.

devolved upon the crown.
But, in this case, the plaintiffs exist, at this day,
as a corporation, precisely as it did before the revolution; and the specific purposes to which the
trust was to be applied, by the terms of the charter, still remain the same. The cases, therefore,
are totally unlike each other.
2. The next question is, was this property protected against forfeiture, for the cause of alienage,
or otherwise, by the treaty of peace? This question, as to real estates belonging to British subjects, was finally settled in this Court, in the case
of Orr v. Hodgson, (4 Wheat. Rep. 453.) in
which it was' decided, that the 6th article of the
treaty protected the titles of such persons, to lands
in the United States, which. would have been liable to forfeiture, by escheat, for the cause of
alienage, or to confiscation, jure belli.
The counsel for the defendants did not controvert this doctrine, so far as it applies to natural

popery
protected
the
treaty by
of
The

persons; but he contends, that the treaty does not, peao.
in its terms, embrace corporations existing in
England, and that it ought not to be so construed.
The words of the 6th article are, " there shall
be no future confiscations made, nor any prosecutions commenced, against any person or persons, for or by reason of the part which he or
they may have taken in the present war; and that
no person shall, on that account, suffer any future
Vol, AVII

62

CASES .IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

loss or damage, either in his person, liberty, or

~ property,"
Society, &zc.

&c.

The terms in which this article is expressed
New-Haven. are general and unqualified, and we are aware of
no rule of interpretation applicable to treaties, or
to private contracts, which wouldt authorize, the
Court to make' exceptions by construction, where
the parties to the contract have not thought proper
to make them. Where the language of the parties is clear of all ambiguity, there is no room for
construction. Now, the parties to this treaty have
agreed, that there shall be no future confiscAtions in any case, for the cause stated. How can
this Court say, that this is a case where, for the
cause- stated, or for some other, confiscation may
lawfully be decreed? We can discover no sound
reason why a corporation existing in Englan4
may not as well hold real property in the United
States, as ordinary trustees for charitable, or
other purposes, or as natural persons for their own
use. We have seen, that the exemption of either,
or all of those persons, from the jurisdiction of
the Courts of the State where the property lies,
affords no such reason.
It is said, that a corporation cannot hold lands,
except by permission of the sovereign authority.
But this corporation did hold the land in question,
by permission of the sovereign authority, before,
during, and subsequent to the revolution, up to
the year 1794, when the Legislature of Vermont
granted it to the town of New-Haven; and the
only question is, whether this grant was not void
V.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

491

by force of the 6th article of the above treaty ? 1823.
,
.O-v
We think it was.
Sociaty,&C
Was it meant to be contended, that the plaintiffs
V.
New-Haven.
bearticle,
this
of
protection
the
are not within
cause they are not persons who could take part in
the war, or who can be considered hy the Court
as. British subjects ? If this were to be admitted,
it would seem to follow, that a corporation cannot
lose its title to real estate, upon the ground of
alienage, since, in its civil capacity, it cannot be
said to be born under the allegiance of any sovereign. But this would be to take a very incorrect
view of the subject. In the case of The Bank
of the United States v. Deveaux, (5 Cranchs
Rep. 86.) it was stated by the Court, that a corporation, considered as a mere legal entity, is not
a citizen, and, therefore, could not, as such, sue
in the Courts of the United States, unless the
rights of the members of it, in this respect,
cQuld be exercised in their corporate name. It
was , added, that the name of the corporation
could not be an 'lien or a.citizen; but the corporation may be the one or the other, and the controversy is, in fact, between those persons and
the opposing party.
But even if it were admitted that the plaintiffs And its tide is
confirmedby
are not within the protection of the treaty, ito ueatjy of
the land1794.
would notfollow, that their right to hold
in question was devested by the act of 1794, and
became vested in the town of New-Haven. At
the time when this law was enacted, the plaintiffs,
though aliens, had a complete, though defeasible,
title to the land, of which they could not be do-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

prived for the cause of alienage, but by an inquest
office; and no grant of the State could, upon
Society, . the principles of the common law, be valid, until
New-Haven. the title of the State was so established. (Fair1823.

Sof

fax's devisee v. Hnter's lessee, 7 Cranch's 'Rep.
503.) Nor is it pretended by the counsel for the
defendants, that this doctrine of the common law
was changed by any statute law of the State of
Vermont, at the time when this land was granted to
the town of New-Haven. This case is altogether
unlike that of Smith v. The State of Maryland,
(6 Cranch'sRep. 286.) which turned upon an act
of that State, passed in the year 1780, during
the revolutionary war, which declared, that all
property within the State, belonging to British
subjects, should be seized, and was thereby confiscated to the use of the State; and that the commissioners of confiscated estates should be taken
as being in the actual seisin and possession of the
estates so confiscated, without any office found,

entry, or other act to be done. The law in
question passed long after the treaty of 1783, and
without confiscating or forfeiting this land, (even
if that could be legally done,) grants the same to
the town of New-Haven.
3. The last question respects the effect of the
the

Ef'ect of
late war upon

these treaties, late war, between Great Britain and the United

Stotes, upon rights existing under the treaty of
peace. Under this head, it is contended by the
defendants' counsel, that although the plaintiffs
were protected by the treaty of peace, still, the
effect of the last war was toput an end to that
treaty, and, consequently, to civil rights derived

OF THE UNITED STATES.

under it, unless they had been revived and preserved by the treaty of Ghent.

1823.
Society,

w

If this argument were to be 4imitted in all its
v.
parts, it nevertheless would not follow, that the New-Haven.
plaintiffs are not entitled to a judgment on this
special verdict. The defendants claim title to the
land in controversy solely under the act of 1794,
stated in the verdict, and contend, that by'force
of that law, the title of the plaintiffs was devested.
But if the Court has been correct in its opinion
upon the two first points, it will follow, that the
above act was utterly void, being passed in contravention of the trealy of peace, which, in this respect,
is to be considered as the supreme law. Remove
that law, then, out of the case, and the title of the
plaintiffs, confirmed by the treaty of 1794, remains
unaffected by the last war, it not appearing from
the verdict, that the land was confiscated, or the
plaintiffs' title in any way devested, during the war,
or since, by office found, or even by any legislative
act.
But there is a still more decisive answer to this
objection, which is, that the termination of a treaty
cannot devest rights of property already vested
under it.
If real estate be purchased or secured under a
treaty, it would be most mischievous to admit, that
the extinguishment of the treaty extinguished
the right to such estate. In truth, it no more
affects such rights, than the repeal of a municipal
law affects rights acquired under it. If, for example, a statute of descents be repealed, it has
never been supposed, that rights of property

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

already vested during its existence, were gone by
repeal. Such a construction Would overturn
V. the best established doctrines of law, and sap the
New-Haven. very foundation on which property rests.
"But we are not inclined to admit
the doctrineurged at the bar. that treaties become extinguished,
ipso facto, by w-x between the two government;,
&dtess they should be revived by an express or
.implied renewal on the return of peace. Whatever may be the latitude of doctrine laid down by
elementary writers on the law of nations, dealing
in general terms in relation to this subject, we are
satisfied, that the doctrine contended for is not
universally true. There may be treaties of such
a nature, as to their object and import, as that
war will put an end to them; but where treaties
contemplate a permanent arrangement of territorial, and other national rights, or which, in their
terms, are meant to provide for the event of an intervening war, it would be against every principle
of just interpretation to hold them extinguished by
the event of war. If such were the law, even the
treaty of 1783, so far as it fixed our limits, and acknowledged our independence, would be gone,
and we should have had again to struggle for both
upon original revolutiQnary principles. Such a
constrution was never asseited, and would be so
monstrous as to supersede all reasoning.
We think, therefore, that treaties stipulating for
permanent rights, and. general arrangementa, and
professing to aim at perpetuity, and to deal with
the case of war as well as of peace, do not cease
on the occurrence of war, but are, at most, only sus'such Uc.
Society,

495

OF THE UNITED STATES.

pended while it lasts; and unless they are waived
stipulations
by the parties, or new and repugnant
are made, they revive in their operation at the. re-

1823.
'-

turn of peace.

A majority of the Court is of opinion, that
judgment upon this special verdict ought to be
given for the plaintiffs, which opinion is to be
certified to the Circuit Court.
Certificate for the plaintiffs.

[DEvis.]

DALY'S Lessee v. JAMES.
1. B. devises all his real estate to the testator's son, J. B., jun., and his
heirs lawfully begotten; and, in case of his death wi/totd such
issue, he orders A. Y., his executors and administrators, to sell the
real estate within two zjears after tMe son's death; and he bequeaths
the proceeds thereof to his brothers and sisters, by name, and their
hers for ever, or such of them as shall 4e living at the death of the
son, to be divided between them in equal proportions,share and
share alike. All the brothers and sisters die, leaving Issue. Then
A. Y. dies, and afterwards 3. B., jun., the son, dies without issue.
Heirs is a word of limitation; and none of the testator's brothers
and sisters being alive at the death of J. B., jun., the devise to them
failed to take effecL
qtuere, Whether a sale by the executors, &. under such creamstances, is to be considered as valid in a Court of law ?
Rowever this may be, a sale, thus made, after the lapse of two years
from the death of J. B., jun., is without authority, and conveys no
title.
Qzure, Under what circumstances a Court of equity might relieve,
I

Daly

V.

'

