253

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1823.
The United
States
V.

[CONSTITUTIONAL LAw.

PRACTICE.]

THE UNITED STATES V. WILSON.
An insolvent debtor who has received a certificate of discharge from
arrest and imprisonment under a State insolvent law, is not entitled to be discharged from execution at the suit of the United
States.

THIS cause was brought before this Court
upon a certificate of a division of opinion between
the Judges of the Circuit Court for the southern
District of New-York. The defendant was taken
on the 16th of July, 1819, in execution -by the
marshal, upon a judgment obtained against him
at the suit of the United States, in the District
Court for the southern District of New-York,
and committed to the custody of the Sheriff of
the city and county of New-York, under an act
of the Legislature of the State of New-York,
papsed April, 1813,* and subsequently reueived his
a Which provides, 'Y that it shall be the duty of the Sheriff of
the several cities and counties of this State, and the duty of the
keeper of the city prison of the city of New-York, to receive into'
their respective gaols, and safely keep, all prisoners who shall be
committed to the same by virtue of any process to be issued under
the authority of the United States, until they shall be discharged
by the due course of the laws thereof, the United States supporting
such of the said prisoners as shall be committed for oflences against
the said United States: Providedalways, that persons committed
in the city of New-York on civil process only, be committed to the
gaol in the custody of the Sheriff of the said city; and persons

Wilson.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
\State,
The United

State.s

wil .

Fb. 14t.

certificate of discharge under the act of the said
passed April, 1819, entitled, " an act for
'
abolishing imprisonment for debt. ' G
A motion
was
made
in
the
Court
below
for
the
defendant's
discharge from custody on tLe
ca. sa. issued
against him at the suit of the United States ; and
on the question, whether he was entitled to his discharge, the Judges were divided in opinion, and
the division was thereupon certified to this Court.
The cause was briefly argued by the Attorney
Generalfor the United States,b and by Mr. Wheaton' for the defendant.
committed in the said city charged with any offence whatever, be
committed to the gaol in the custody of the keeper of the city prison of the said city; and in case any prisoner shall escape out of
the custody of any Sheriff or keeper to whom such prisoner may
be committed as aforesaid, such Sheriff or keeper shall be liable to
the like actions and penalties as he would have been had such pri.
soner been committed by virtue of any process issuing under the
authority of this State; and such Sheriff or keeper into whose custody any such prisoner shall be so committed, is hereby authorized
to take to his own use such sums of money as shall be payable by
the United States, for the use of the said gaols."
a Which provides, in substance, for the exemption of insolvent
debtors from imprisonment, upon their making an assignment of
their property for the benefit of their creditors.
b He referred to the act of Congress of June 6th, 1798, c. 66.
s. L which provides, "that any person imprisoned upon execution
issuing from any Court of the United States, for a debt due to the
United States, which he shall be unable to pay, may, at any time
after commitment,make application in writing to the Secretary ofiho
Treasury, stating thecircumstances 6f his case, and his inability to
discharge the debt; and it shall, thereupon, be lawful for tbe said Secretary to.make, or require to be made, an examination mid inquiry
into the circumstances of the debtor, either by thg oath or afftrma-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The Court directed the following certificate to
be-sent to the Circuit Court.

255

182.
Tho Uniui

States

CERTIFICATE.

This cause came on to be heard

on thq transcript of the record of the United States

Court for the second circuit, and southern District of
New-York, on the question on which the Judges of
that Court were divided, and which was certified
to this Court. On consideration whereof, this
Court is of opinion, that the said Joseph Wilson,

who was in execution under a judgment obtained
tion of the debtor, (which the said Secretary, or any other person
by him specially appointed, are hereby authorized to administer,)
or otherwise, as the said Secretary shall deem necessary and expedient, to ascertain the truth; and upon proof being made, to his
satisfaction, that such debtor is unable to pay the debt for which he
is imprisoned, and that he bath not concealed, or made any conveyance of his esiate, in trust, for himself, or with an intent to defraud the Unitai States, or deprive them of their legal priority, the
said Secretary is hereby authorized to receive from such debtor, any
deed, assignment, or conveyance, of the real or personal estate of
such debtor, if any he bath, or any collateral security, to the use of
the United States; and upon a compliance, by the debtor, with
such terms and conditions as the said Secretary may judge reasonable and proper, under all the circumstances of the case, it shall be
lawful for the said Secretary to issue his order, under his hand, to
the keeper of the prison, directing him to discharge such debtor
from his imprisonment under such execution, and he shall be accordingly discharged, and shall not be liable to be imprisoned again
for the said debt; but the judgment shall remain good and sufficient
in law, and may be satisfied out of any estate which may then, or
at any time afterwards, belong to the debtor."
c He cited Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Whteat. Rep. 136.
Houston v. Moore, 1. Wheat. Rep. 1. and referred to the Judiciary
Act of 1789, c. 20. s. ,4.; the Bankrupt Act of 1800, c. 173. s.
61. and the Priority Act of 1799. c. 128. s.65.

Wihoo.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18 3.
The Unite

States
V.
'on.

by the United States, is not entitled to a discharge
of his person under the act of the State of NewYork, entitled, " an act abolishing imprisonment
for debt," passed April, 1819. All which is directed
to be certified.to the Circuit Court for the second
circuit and southern District of New-York.a
a See the UnitedStates v. Hoar, 2 Mason's Rep. 311. where it
was determined, that the local statutes of limitations of the different States do not bind the United States in suits in the national
Courts, and cannot be pleaded in bar of an action by the United
States against individuals. In that case it was held, that the statutes
of limitation of Massachusetts did not apply even to suits by the
State government in the State Courts, and that the 34th section of
the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20. which provides," that the laws of
te severalStates, except where the constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall
be regardedas rules of decision in trials at common law in the
Courts of the United States, in cases where they apply," could
not have ,beant to enlarge the construction of the statute of Massachusetts. "It is most manifest," (says Mr. Justice STORY, in
delivering the judgment of the Circuit Court in the case referred to,)
"that these terms give the same efficacy, and none other, to those
statutes, in the federal, that they have (propriovigor&) in the State
Courts. And yet, unless this doctrine of enlargement can be
maintained, it is difficult to perceive on what ground the case of the
defendant canbe supported. The statutes of Massachusetts could
not originally have contenplated suits by the United States, not
because they were in substance enacted before the federal constitution was adopted, on which I lay no stress; but because it was not
within the legitimate exercise of the powers of the State legislature. It is not to be presumed, that a State legislature mean to
transcend their constitutionai powers; and, therefore, however general the words way be, they are always restrained to persons and
things over which thejurisdiction of the State may be rightfully
exerted. And if a construction could ever be justified, which should
include the United States, at 1he same time that it excluded the
Statq, it is not to be presumed that Congress could intend to sanc-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

257

1 2.
tion a usurpation of power.by a State, to regulate and control the
rights of the United States. In'the language of the act of 1789,
Greeley
it could not be a, cme where 1he laws of the State could apply.
The mischief, too; of such a construction, would be very great. The V.
United
States.
The public rights, revenue, and property, would be subject to the
arbitrary limitations of the States; and the lhmitatiois are so various in these States, that the government would hold its rights by a
differenttenure in each." Id. p. 315.

[Co NSTRucTzo

Gi.ELE

oF STATUTE.]

and others v- The

UNITED STATES.

Collusive captures and violations of the revenue laws, committed by
a private arined vessel, are a breach of the condition of the bond
given by the owners, under the Prize Actof June 26,1812, c.430. s.
S.Ifsuch breach appear upon demurrer, the defendants are not entitled to a hearing in equity under the Judiciary Act, of 1789, c. 90.
s.26".

THIS cause came before the Court upon a certifibate of a division of opinion between the
Judges of the Circuit Court of Maine. It was an
action of debt, originally, brought in the District
Court of Maine, by the United States, against the
defendants in that Court, Greeley and others,
upon-a bond executed by them on the 17th of December, 1813, under the Prize Act of June 26th,
'1812i c. 430, s. -3. as owners of the private .armed
vessel called the Fly, conditioned, that " the
owners, officers, and crew of the said armed vessel, shall observe the laws and treaties of the UniVOL. VMII.

33

