OF THE UNITED STATES.

1823.
The PitM
[INsTANcE COURT.

The PITT.

No-INTRCounsr AcT.

McNunT, Claimant.-

The Non-Intercourse Act of the 18th of April, 1818, c. 65. prohibits
the coming of British vessels to the ports of the United States,
from a British port closed against the commerce of the United
States, either directly,.oi through an open British port; but it does
not prohibit the coming of such vessels from a British closed port,
through a foreign port, (not British,) where the continuity 6f the voyage is fairly broken.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of Delaware.
This was an allegation of forfeiture in the District
Court of Delaware, against the British sloop Pitt,
under the Non-Intercourse Act of April 18th, 1818,
c. 65. the first section of which provides, "that,
trom and- after the 30th of September next, ihe
ports of the United States shall be, and remain
closed against every vessel, owned wholly, or in
part, by a subject or subjects of his Britannic majesty, coming, or arriving from, any port or place
in a colony or territory of his Britannic majesty,
that is, or shall be, by the ordinary laws of navigation and trade, closed against vessels owned by
citizens of the United States; and such vessel.
that, in the course of the voyage, shall have touched
at, or cleared out from, any port or place in a
colony or territory of Great Britain, which shall,
or may; by the laws of navigation and trade aforesaid, be open to vessels owned by citizens of the
United States, shall, nevertheless, be deemed to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

have come from the port or place in the colony or
of Great Britain, closed as aforesaid
against vessels owned by citizens of the United
States, from which such vessel cleared out and
sailed, before touching and clearing out from an
intermediate and open port or place as aforesaid;
and. every such vessel, so excluded from the ports
of the United States, that shall enter, or attempt
to enter, the same, in violation of this act, shall,
with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, together
with the cargo on board such vessel, be forfeited
to the United States."
The vessel in question, belonging to British
subj ets in the island of Jamaica, departed from
the port of Kingston, in that island, on the 16th
of August, 1818, with a cargo belonging to the
same owners, and a clearance for San Bias, and
arrived at Old Providence, a small Spanish island
on the coast of Honduras, on the 22d of the same
month. At this island the cargo was discharged,
and another" taken in, consisting principally of
Caraccas cocoa, fustic, and Spanish hides. She
sailed from thence on the 6th of September following, with orders to come to anchor off the light
house at Cape Henlopen, the western cape of the
Delaware bay, and there wait instructions from
the agents of the owners at Philadelphia. The
vessel arrived off Fenwick's island, about 30 miles
south of the Delaware, on the 29th of September,
1818, when a pilot boarded her, and delivered to
the master written instructions frem the agents of
the- owners, not to enter the Delaware, but to proceed to. Halifax or Bermuda. But the master

Sterritory

OF THE UNITED STATE.

373

stated, that his bread and water were insufficient 1823.
for the voyage, and proceeded off the capes of the
The Pit
Delaware to procure a supply of those articles,
but was compelled (as alleged) bystress of weather,
on the 1st of October, 1818, to put into the Whorekiln Roads opposite to Lewiston, where the vessel
was seized by the officers of the revenue for a
breach of the act before mentioned.
The District Court pronounced a decree of condempation, which was reversed in the Circuit
Court, and the cause was then brought by appeal
to this Court.
Mr. Jomes, for the appellants, made the follow- Feb. S7M.
ing points.
1. That the vessel, together with the cargo on
board, was liable to forfeiture, as coming from
Kingston, a closed and prohibited British port,
within the true intent and meaning of the act of
Congress: and that it is immaterial whether the
voyage were direct, or a circuit6us and trading
voyage: whether it were a passage upon the seas
from one port to another, or to several ports: in
either case, Kingston was the terminus a quo.
That she entered a port of the United States after
the 3Gth of September, 1818, which consummated
the forfeiture.
2. That the plea of distress, under which the
entry was made, was wholly fictitious.
Mr. Sergeant and Mr. M'Lane, contra, argued,
(1.) That the act excluded a vessel from the ports
of the United States only, 1st. When she is

CASES IN THE SUPREME, COURT

182.
Te Pitt.

coming directly froma prohibited port, in a colony
or territory of Great Britain, to the United States;

and, 2dly. When she is coming from such prohibited. port, and touches at, and clears out.from,
a port in, a colony -or territory of Great Britain,
Which may be open to the vessels of the United
States ; and the voyage of the Pitt was of neither
character.. If she had sailed from Jamaica, which
was closed against vessels of the United States,
and had touched at, and cleared out from,'any intermediate port in a colony or territory, of Great
Britain, open to vessels of' the United States, she
would have beeil excluded by the law.; but, having
sailed from Jamaica to a Spanish port, and thence,
with a new cargo, to the United States, conditionally, her voyage was not prohibited. The object
of the-navigation act was to deprive British vessels
ofan indirect tr'ade with the United States, through
certain of their own ports, which they might leave
open for that purpose, but it never designed to
interfere 'with! the direct or indirect trade With
Spain or her colonies.
The commercial convention concluded between
the United States and Great Britain, on the d of
July, 1815, did not extend to the British colonies
in the West Indies; but, as to them, the navigation laws and colonial system of Great Britain
6ontinued in full force; which the United States
were at liberty to counteract by any regulations in
their power. It was for this purpose the act of Congress was passed. It contemplated a partial, not a

general, non-intercourse system. It did not, of
course, exclude the entrance of an English vessel,
whether documented at home or in a colony, corn-

375

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing with a cargo of British manufactures or colonial produce, from any other than a prohibited
at, in the course
place, without having touched

of her voyage, any free port in the British colonies. Any article produced in the interdicted colony, may be imported into the United States, in
a lawful way, from permitted ports in England, or
her colonies, and, a fortiori, from the ports, of
any-other foreign state. Such was the case of the
Pitt; she cleared from Kingston for San Blas,.and
arrived at Old Providence, a Spanish island;
there she discharged her cargo, took in another of
a different character, and sailed thence to proceed
to Philadelphia or Halifax, as circumstances might
warrant. Her ultimate destination was not to
be determined until 'her arrival off the coast of
the United States, whither she could lawfullycome. She was not on a direct voyage from a
prohibited port to the United States, nor had she
touched at and cleared out from a free port in the
British colonies; nor was she even laden with a
cargo of the growth or produce of the prohibited
colonies,
2. The vessel did not enter, or attempt to
enter, the ports of the United States, in violation
of the act of Congress.
This is a penal law, and is, therefore, to be
construed strictly. Its general seope and ddsign
is to prohibit the trade betiveen the United States
and the British ports, ifiBritish vessels; but
where the entrance, into the waters of the United
States is not for the purpose of trade, or where it
is compulsory and not voluntary, or where it is

1823:
"-

'

CASES -IN THE SUPREME COURT

18'2 .

occasioned by necessity or stress of weather, it is
not a violation of the law.0 There was evidently
no intention, in any part of the voyage,
to violate
the law; and every reasonable precaution was
taken to corfform to and respect its provisions.
The object of the vessel, in coming off the coast
of Delaware, was not to enter the waters of the
United States, but to receive instructions as to her
ulterior destination. This it was lawful to do.
This Court has decided, that even under the rigorous non-intercourse system of 1809, a vessel from
Great Britain had a right to lay off the coast of
the United States, to receive instructions from her
owners in New-York; and, if necessary, to drop
anchor; and, in case of a storm, to make a harbour; and, if prevented by her crew from putting
to sea again, might wait in the waters of the United States for provisions.' This is the case, therefore, of a vessel bound from a Spanish to a British port, accidenitally Ibreed into the waters of
the United States, for lawful purposes, and there
prevented, by the officers of the United States,
from prosecuting her voyage. The testimony in
the case proves the necessity to be sufficiently
urgent to authorize the entrance of the Pitt into
the waters of the United States, under all circumstances, without violating the law; and though
the act of Congress designed to prohibit the trading
of British vessels with the United States, from
the colonies of Great Britain, it could not have
a The Concord, 9 0ranch'aRep. 387.
b The Fanny, 9 Cranch's It?. 181.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

intended to. deny tie ordinary officescf humanity
to such vessels, trading with other nations.

877
1823.
The Pitt.

Mr. Jones, in reply, insisted,.that the case, was
one of a fraudulent evasion of the act. The moment the onus probandiis thrown on a claimant,
who, in a revenue cause, sets up a plea of distress
to excuse the infraction of the law, he must show
by the clearest, evidence, that the necessity, under
the compulsion of which he professes to have
acted, was real.a Entering the port, infrafaucs
portus, is not necessary; and there is more danger to the revenue laws in vessels coming into
these by-places, than of their entering ports
which are made such by statute. The present
voyage is Within the mischiefs intended to be
guarded against by the prohibition of an indirect
voyage, which are as great where the voyage is
through a foreign port (not British) as through a
British port not closed against our trade.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of mardii.

the Court. This vessel, with her cargo, was condemned in the District Court of Delaware, for a
violation of the act of April, 1818, entitled, " an
act concerning navigation." That decree having
been reversed in the Circuit Court, the cause iq
now brought up by appeal to this Court.
Several grounds, in support of the latter adjudication, have been insisted on in the argument; but
a The Josefa Segunda, 5 IVeat. Rep. s54. The New-York

S Wheat. Rep. 65.
Vol. VIII.

48

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

,.

1823.

the Court deem it unnecessary to advert to more

v~-'

than one, as that will dispose of the case finally,

The Pitt.

and fix the most important point which it presents,
to wit, the correct construction of the first section
of the act in question.
We are unanimously of opinion, that the construction insisted on by the claimant's counsel, is
the only correct construction. It is perfectly
clear, that the case of this vessel is not literally
comprised within the provisions of this act; for
it only prohibits a voyage from a closed port of
Great Britain to a port of the United States; and
the purport and effect of the latter part of the
first clause, amounts to no more than a declaration, that the continuity of such a voyage shall not
be broken by the act of touching at, or clearing
out from, any port of a colony or territory of Great
Britain which may be open to American shipping.
But it has been contended, in behalf of the appellants, that although not within the letter, it is
within the mischief intended to be obviated by
the statute, and, therefore, subject to the penalty.
If by this argument it be intended to maintain,
that acts done in fraud of a law, are acts in violation of the law, the principle may be conceded;
but we fully concur in the views of the policy of
this law, as explained by the claimant's counsel,
and aie satisfied, that the latter provisions of the
first clause were solely intended to guard against
the effects which the permission of a general trade
at one or more of the British colonial ports, may
have had in defeating the policy of the act altogether. The Legislature had not in view a fair

4379

OF THE UNITED STATES.

unaffected trade through the ports of any other
nation. It is obvious, that attempts might have
been made to evade the law by an affected trade
through an intermediate port; and it is not to be
supposed, that this government, or its Courts,
would have failed to check such an attempt; but
we are fully satisfied, that this was not such a case.
The evidence of fairness is full and unequivocal.
There was time, even upon ordinary calculation,
to have completed the voyage from Jamaica to
Old Providence, and thence to Philadelphia, before the prohibition was by law to take effect, as
is proved by the fact of her having arrived in. the
Delaware at a time which left it doubtful whether
she was or was not within the period specified for
its suspension. The cargo, too, was taken in at
the port of Old Providence, and was of a description well known to belong to the trade of that
port, from its having been the depot of captures,
and probably of a covered trade from the continent
of South America. Every thing conspires to
exempt the vessel from the charge of fraudulent
intention, and, therefore, leaves no ground for the
condemnation.
Decree of the Circuit Court affirmed.

1823.
T

P

