-OF THE UNITED STATES.

Court in this case, be, and the same is hereby re- 1823,
versed and annulled. And it is further ordered; -Goldsbothat the said cause be remanded to the said Cir- rouh
cuit Court, with directions to permit the defendorr.
ants to withdraw their demurrer, and to answer
the bill of the complainants.

[LOCAL LAw.

CovENA.-.1

Plaintiff in Error v. ORR,
Defendant in Error.

GOLDSBOROUGH,

Where the acts stipulated to be done are to be done at different
times, the covenints are to be construed as independent of each
other.Application of this principle to the peculiar circumstances of the
present case.
Under the act of assembly of Maryland of 1795, (c. 56.) if the defendant appears,,and dissolves the attachment, a declaration and
subsequent pleadings are not necessary, as in other ;ctions, but the
cause may be tried upon a short note.
1R seems, under the same act, that an attachment will not lie in a case
ex capdractu for unrlquidated damages for the non-delivery of
goods. But where the plaintiff is entitled to a stipulated sum of
money, in lieu of a specific article- tn be delivered, an attachment
will lie.

THIS cause was argued at the last term by Feb&t'1,
Mr. Lear,a .for the plaintiff in error, nd by Mr. and .adi
Jonws,b for the defendant.
a He cited i Jac.Law Dict. 160. 3 Har-. 4' AlHenr. Rep.
347. 1 Hart. 4- Johns. Rep. 491. 6 East's Rep. 614. 1 ].
BL 363. S East'sRep.93.
b He cited 1 Com. Di'g. 598 B.

Vo1. VIII.

28

CAStS IN THE SUPREME COURT

1825.
b
Goldsbo-'

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court. This is a case originating under the at-

tachment act of Maryland of 1705, (ch. 56.) and
brought to tl~is Court upon a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, for
The suit was brought by
41ar781.9th, Washington county.
rough
Orr.

Orr, the defendant in error, on what is technically
called a short note, expressing the true cause of
actiol, as follows :
Howes Goldsborough,Esq.
To Benjamin G. Orr,Dr.
May 5, 1818. To the west house of
four on P. street, south between 4 1-2 street west and
Water-street, with the four
4,500 00
lots adjoining to, the west,
To the house on P. street south adjoining the above house on
the east side, and lot No.
4,500 00
21, on 0. street south,
February 15, 1819. To lots Nos. 9
and 10, and part of 11, consquare feet,
taining1,906 00
12 1-2 cents per foot,
#10,906 00
By amount of your account up to 17th
of April, 1819,

7,896 11
#2,919 89

Errors Excepted, 4tfi of June, 1819.
BENJADVN G. ORR.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

219

The original defendant, Goldaborough, appeared, and dissolved the attachment by putting in
special bail, and pleaded non assumpsit, fipoxi
which issue was joined, and a verdict found for
the plaintiff for the above balance of 2,919 dollars
and 89 cents, with interest. A bill of exceptions
was taken at the trial, in substance as follows:
The plaintiff in this case, to support the issue
joined, on his part, offered in evidewe " account marked A., which is as follows, to wit:
Howes Goldsborough, Esq.
Pot. of Benjamsn G. Orr,
May 5, 1818. The west house of four
houses on P. street south,
between 4 1-2 street west,
and Water-street, with. four
04,500 00
lots adjoining to the west,

Cr.
By his note, payable to A. J. Cornstock, on the 1st of February, 1819,
By do. payable to A. J.Comtock, on
the 1st of August, 1819,

1,190 24
1,238 09
2,428 33

To balance due Benjamin G. Orr,
payable in lumber, at usual
lumber yard prices, of which
some part has already been
$2,071 67
delivered to his orders,
BEN3AMIN G. ORR,
H. GOLDSBOROUGH.

Washingtcn, May 5,18 fS.

1823.
Goldsbo.
rough
V.

Orr.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The agreement marked B., which is as follows,

1823.
'

Goldsborough

r.

'to

wit:

It is agreed between Benjamin G; Orr, of the
city of Washington, and Howes Goldsborough, of
the State of Maryland, as follows, to wit:
The said Orr sells to said Goldsborough the
three story brick house adjoining the one now in
the possession of Commodore Rodgers on P.
street south, with the coach house and stable adjoining, and the lot on which they stand, being numbered three, and a lot numbered twenty-one, on 0.
street south, for four thiousand five hundred dollars.
The said Orr also sells to said Goldsborough,
lots Nos. 9 and 10, and part of 11, in the same
square, with the water privilege thereto belonging,
for twelve and an half cents for each square foot
which they contain, all of which sales are to be
paid for in lumber, in the city of Washington, at
the usual lumber yard prices ; one half thereof to
be deliverable the present year, the other half in
the year 1819, as it may be wanted by the said
Orr. The said Orr further agrees to take of the"
said Goldsborough as much more lumber, which,
added to the amount of the above property, when
calculated in money, as will make the whole
amount to ten thousand dollars. And for such
further amount to give his note, payable on the
15th day of February, in the year 1819, to the
said GoldsborougF. The titles to be made on
demand, and the delivery of the lumber to be guarantied by Commodore Rodgers. Washington,
May 5th, 1818.
BENJAMIN G. ORR,

H.

GOLDSBOROUGH.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

I do hereby guaranty, that H. Goldsborough
shall deliver the lumber ihentioned in the within
that B. G. Orr, oni his part,
contract, on conditibn
.V
complies with the stipulation on his part, also
mentioned in this said instrument of writing.
JOHN RODGERS.

.And the receipt marked C. which is as follows,
to wit:
Received of Benjamin G. Orr, his note, payable
on the. 15th day of February, eighteen hundred
and nineteen, for the sum of three thousand five
hundred and ninety-four dollars, in compliance
with his agreemerft, dated the 5th day of May,
1818.
H. GOLDSBOROUGH.
And further proved by a witness, that late in
the winter, or in the spring of 181 ,the defendant refused to deliver any more lumber to the orders of the plaintiff; the balance of lumber due
under said contract's being duly demanded of the
defendant by agent of the plaintiff; and it was admitted, that the said honses and lots mentioned in
said contracts, had been duly conveyed according
to agreement. And the defendant thereupon
proved, that he delivered lumber to the orders of
the plaintiff to the amount of 7,986 dollara and
11 cents, according to a particular account thereof,
which was produced, which includes the same
amount of 2,428 dollars and 33 cents, mentioned
in the firstaccount A., the notes therein mentioned
being payable in lumber, and the lumber given

1823.
Goldsbo-

rough
.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUVT

18'23, in discharge of the same, being, charged in the
Sgeneral
account B. ; and that he delivered lumber
rough to the plaintiff't order, whenever called for, until
V..
the 15th of February, 1819, when the note filed
in the cause, and mentioned in this defendant's receipt, fell due; that then, the said note not being paid
by plaintiff, the defendant refused to deliver any
more lumber, and the plaintiff requested said defendant to give him further time until some day in
the April following to pay the said Dote, (at which
time h promised to take it up,) and to continue
the delivery of lumber to his orders as he might
want it, until that day; and the witness, who was
the defendant's agent, would have gone on to deliver the whole quantity, if it had been called for
before the titte limited as aforesaid for the payment of the note in April, not having been restricted by defendant's orders as to quantity; and that
on the said day of April, the plaintiff again made
default in paying the said note, and the defendant
then refusing to deliver any more lumber, this suit
was brought. If they believe the facts above
stated to be true, the plaintiff is not entitled to
recover in the suit. Which direction the Court
refused to give. To which refusal, the defendant,
by his counsel, excepts, &c.
And the parties have since annexed to the record, as a part thereof, the following explanatory
statement:
Whole amount of the purchase money
of the house and lotssold

OF THE UNITED STATES.

223
1823.

by the agreement, B. viz:
House, with coach house, &c.
$4,500
and lot 21,
Lots 9, 10, and part of 11, at
12 1-2 cents per square
foot,

.

.

fGeldborough
V.

On.

1,906

$6,406 00
Do. for the other house and lots
4,500 00
sold as per account A.
Total amount for both houses, and
all the lots under both con10,906 00
tracts,
Of this amount Goldsborough had
delivered lumber on account
of Orr, to the amount stated
in the account D. (including
all the credits stated in the
account A.)
Leaving a balance to be delivered
on account of the houses
and lots sold and conveyed
by Orr to Goldsborough, for
which judgment is now recovered, with interest,

7,986 11

2,919 89
10,906 00

In order -to complete the contract B. so as to make
the whole amount in

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Goldsbo-

ro.ugh

'.

lumber to. be taken by
Orr under that con$10,000 00

tract,

$3,594 00
He gave the note mentioned, for
To which adding the purchase money for the house and lots
6,406 00
sold by that contract,
Makes the total amount to be taken
in lumber under that contract,

.

.

$10,000 00

Upon the argument of the cause in this Court,
the principal question has been, whether the failure of Orr to pay the note of 3,594 dollars, constitutes a good defence to this suit. That there
is a alance due to Orr of 2,919 dollars and 89
cents, for property actually conveyed by him to
Goldsborough, under the agreements stated in the
case, is most manifest; and the only point open
for consideration is, whether the payment of the
note is a conditin precedent to the recovery of
that balance. This must be decided by the terms
of the written agreement B. ; for if the contract
on one side be not dependent upon the performance of the contract on the other, or if they be
not mutual and concurrent contracts, to be performed at the same time, there can be no doubt,
that the defence is unsupported. And, upon full
consideration, we are all of opinion, that the contracts are not dependent or concurrent, 'by the
true and necessary interpretation of that agreement. The agreement on the part of Orr was

OF THE UNITED STATES.

literally complied with. The titles to the property
sold were duly made, the note •was duly given,
and Orr was at all times ready to receive the
lumber according to his rights under the- agreement. It is observable, that one moiety of the
lumber was deliverable in 1818 ; and as to this it
is clear, that the payment of the note could not
be a condition precedent. The other moiety was
deliverable in the year 1819, as it was wanted by
Orr, and of course lie might elect to demand the
Whole before, as well as after the note became
due, at his pleasure. If this be so, it could not
be within the contemplation of the parties, that
the delivery of the lumber should be dependent
upon the payment of the note, for the whole might
be *rightfully demanded before it -became due.
Nothing is better settled, both upon reason and
authority,- than the principle, that where the acts
stipulated to be done, are to be done at different
times, the stipulations are to be construed as independent of each other. The parol enlargement
of the time of payment of the note, cannot be adinitted to change the nature of the original agreement; nor is there any pretence to say, that there
was any waiver of the original agreement, even
supposing that, in point of law, such a waiver
could be insisted upon, in a case circumstanced
like the present. For the parties recognised the
existence of that agreement, and lumber continued
to be delivered under it as Orr required. If, indeed, any waiver were to be implied, it would be
a waiver by Goldsborough of a payment of the
note as a condition precedent to the delivery of
VoL-. VIII.

29

tM
1823.
Golasbo-

ro-gh

Or.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

the lumber.

But the parol contract does not, in

Gooldsbo-

any degree, vary the legal rights or obligations of

rough

the parties. The Court below was, therefore,
right in refusing the instruction prayed for by the
counsel for the defendant.
After the argument, some difficulties occurred
as to the nature and form of the proceedings under
this attachment act; but upon hearing the parties
again, our doubts are entirely removed. One of
the doubts was, whether, in cases of attachment,
if the defendant appeared and dissolved the attachment, there ought not to be a declaration and
subsequent pleadings, according to the course in
ordinary actions. Upon the terms of the acts respecting attachments, we should have inclined to
the opinion, that such a declaration, and such
pleadings, were necessary. But the practice is
shown to have been otherwise, and that practice
has been solemnly adjudged by the Court of Appeals of Maryland to be in conformity to law.,,
We have no disposition to disturb this construction.
Another doubt was, whether an attachment will
lie in a case ex contractu,for unliquidated damages
for non-delivery of goods. The act of 1795
gives the remedy upon the creditors making oath,
&c., that the debtor is bona fide indebted to him
in a sum certain over all discounts, "and at the
same time producing the bond or bonds, bill or
bills, protested bill or bills of exchange, promis-

O.

a Samuel Smith and others v. Robert Gilmor and others, GarJune term, 1816, of tho
Gbnrt of Appeals, iS,.
20ahees of Wilhelm and Jan W'illink.

OF THE. UMTED STATES.

227

sory note or notes, or other instrument or instru- 1828.
ments iU writing, account or accounts, by which Golkqbothe debtor is so indebted." This enumeration rouh
would seem to include such cases only of contract
Or.
as were for payment of money, either certain in
themselves, or for -which debt, or ind~tatus.asempsit, or actions of that nature,. would lie. It
does not seem to include a contract for the deliVery of gqods, ordoing any other collateral act."
But, however this may be, and we give no opinion
respecting it, we are satisfied, that upon the contract in the present case, the plaintiff is entitled
to a specific sum in money, so as to bring himself
within the purview of the act. The value of the
property sold was estimated in money; and though
it was, payable in lumber, yet if,upon demand,
the defendant refised to deliver the lumber, he
lost the benefit of that part of the contract, and
the plaintiff became entitled to receive the sum
stipulated to be paid in money.
Some objections were taken by the defendpnt
to-the preliminary-proceedings in this suit; but it
is unnecessary, to consider them, because, whatever
might have been their original defects, they are
waived by going to trial upon the merits. The
judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, affirmed, with costs.'
a See under the act of 1715, ch. 40., The State v. BeaU,

s Harr. k 3PHwY' Rep. 347.
b The editor having been favoured with a DIS. note of the case
of Smath and others v. Gilmor and other8, cited by the Court Wi
the preceding case, determined in the Court of Appeals of Mfaryland, takes the liberty of adding it for the information of the learned

ivaer.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
182 .
Goldsborough
V.
Orr.

Samuel ,Smith and others v. Robert Gibnorand others, Garnishees
of Wilhelm and Jan Willink.
Appeal fiom Baltimore County Court. In this case, an attach.
ment issued on the 2d of February, 1805, in the names of the present appellants, against the lands, tenements, goods, chattels, and
credits of Wilhelm and Jan Willink, under, and in virtue of a warrant from a Justice of the Peace of Baltimore county, directed to
the clerk of the County Court of that county, accompanied by an
affidavit and account, pursuant to the directions of thlact of assemblyof1795, ch. 56. At the same time the plaintiffs prosecuted
a writ of capiasad reqTondendum against the defendants, and filed
a short note, stating, that the suit was brought to recover the sum
of 14,094 dollars and 84 cents, due from the defendants to the
plaintiffs, on account, and a copy thereof was sent with the said
writ, endorsed, "to be set up at the.Court house door by the Sheriff." The attachment was returned by the Sheriff, laid in the
hands of Robert Gilmor and others, (the appellees,) and the writ
of capias ad respondendum was returned tarde. The garnishees
being called, appeared; and by their counsel pleaded, that Wilhelm and Jan Willink did not assume, &c., and that at the time of
laying the attachment, &c. they had no goods, &c. of the said
Willinks in their hands. The general replication was put in to the
last plea, and issues were joined. Verdicts for the plaintiffs fbr
12,775 dollars current money, damages. Motion by the garnishees
in arrest of judgment, and the reason assigned was because no decaration had been filed in-me case. The County Court sustained
the motion, and arrested the judgment. The plaintiffs appealed to
this Court.
The case was argued in this Court by Winder for the appellants,
and by Martin and Harper for the appellees.
The Court of Appeals reversed the judgment of the County
Court, and rendered judgment of condemnation on the verdicts for
the plaintiffs for 12,775 dollars current money, damages, together
with ,975 dollars and 93 cents, current money, additional damages, and costs.

