OF THE UNITED STATES.

the plea. was, therefore, false, and that, on mat
ground, the plaintiff was entitled to their verdict
on the whole issue; and, also, in this, that the
jury have found a verdict, on the plea of fully administered, against the defendants, without finding
the sum unadministered; and, also, in this, that
the judgment on the said verdict is absolute against
the administrators themselves, instead of being,
to be levied of the goods and chattels of their intestate, in their hands to be administered. Whereupon it is considered by the Court, that the said
judgment be reversed, and the verdict be set aside,
and the cause remanded to the said Circuit Court,
that further proceedings may be had therein according to law.

[LoCAL LAw.]

THx

CORPoRA rION OF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON,

PRATT,

and others, Appellants,
V.
FRANCiS, and others, Respondents.

Under the 8th section of the act of 1812, to amend the act for the
incorporation of the city of Washington, a sale of unimproved
squares or lots in the city, for the payment of taxes, is illegal, unless
such squares and lots have been assessed to the true and lawful
proprietors thereof.
The lien upon each lot, for the taxes, is several and distinct, and tho
purchaser of each holds his lot unencumbered with the taxes due
on'the other lots held by his vendor.

VoL. VIII.

86

681
1823.
Corporation.

of
Washing'

pr'tL

CASES-IN THE SUPREME COURT

i 82I.

The adyertisement must contain a particular statement of the amount
of taxes duo on each lot separately.
Corporation If the sale of one or more lots produce the amount of taxes actually
of
due on the whole by the same proprietor, the corporation cannot
'Wah
h""
proceed to sell further.
V.

Pratt.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia.
13a.

This cause was argued by the Attorney General
and Mr. Key, for the appellants,, and by Mr.
Jons, for the respondents.

Ma~d, 14!Z.

Mr. Justice JOHNSOrN delivered the opinion of
the Court. A number of lots in the city of Washington, the property of the respondents, having
been sold for payment of taxes, assessed under
authority of the appellants, to the use of the city,
this bill was filed by the respondents, in the Circuit Court of the District, to enjoin the corporation from executing conveyances to the purchasers.
The allegations on which the claim for relief
was asserted, presented to. the view of the Court
below a variety of irregularities, previous to, or
accompanying the sale, which that Court decided
to be deviations from the provisions of the law of
Congress, authorizing the sale. A perpetual injunetion was, therefore, decreed, and from that
decree, the defendants below have appealed.
There have been various questions submitted to
the consideration of this Court, in the argument,
which, with a view to precision, shall be stated in
the parties' own language, in their order.

Afar,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

6a5

1. The first is, Whether sales of unimproved 1823.
squares, or lots, in the city of Washington, to 1
pay two years' taxes thereon, pursuant to the 8th
of
section of the act of Congress, passed in the year Washing=
1812, entitled, "An act, further to amend the act Praa.
for the incorporation of the City," would be illegal,
merely because such squares and lots had not been
assessed to the true and lawful proprietors thereof,
without any wilful mistake or neglect, on the part
of the persons who made the assessment, the assessors having used due diligence to ascertain the
true proprietors ?
This question, as well as every other in the
cause, must find a solution in the provisions of
the law which vests the power to sell. Where
these are explicit and consistent, there is no
ground for adjudication but their literal meaning.
That they must be construed strictly, follows from
their affecting private rights, and particularly rights
of freehold; and that they must be pursued strictly,
is the consequence of their being the sole foundation of the powers executed under them.
The 7th section of the Act of Incorporation of
1802, vests in the corporation a very general
power to lay and collect taxes; but the next section of the same act limits their power in enforcing
payment of taxes to a distress and sale of goods,
and contains an express prohibition against subjecting vacant lots to a sale for taxes. As no
goods could be expected to be found on such lots,
it became necessary to pass this act of 1812, the
8th section of which is in these words: " That
unimproved lots in the city of Washington, on

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'so
Corpo~mtion

of
Wahin
V.

Prat.

which two years' taxes remain due and unpaid, or
much thereof as may be necessary to pay such
taxes, may be sold, at public sale, for such taxes
due thereon. Provided, that public notice be
given of the time and place of sale, by advertising, in some paper printed in the city of Washington, at least six months, where the property
belongs to persons residing out of the United
States; three months, where the property belongs
to persons residing within the United States, and
without the limits of the District of Columbia;
and six weeks, where-the property belongs to
persons residing within the District of Columbia,
or city of Washington: in which notice shall be
stated, the number of the lot or lots, the number
of the square or squares, the name'of the person
or persons to whom the same may have been assessed, and also the amount of taxes due thereon."
And then follows another proviso, securing to the
proprietor, the right to redeem within two years
after such sale.
In legislating upon this subject, the corporation has sanctioned an assessmeni to the owners or
supposed owners; and the real state of the question is, whether this is not going beyond the power
of sale, as delegated to them by the act of Congress. This again depende upon the question,
whether the person "to whom," in the language
of the clause cited, " the lots may have been assessed," can mean any other than the actual
owner of such lot.
We think it cannot. It was undoubtedly in the
power of Congress to have left what latitude they

OF THE UNITED STATES.

685

pleased to the assessor in designating the owner; I8&3.
but if they have confined him to the necessity- of '-V'
Corporkion
determining the true owner, it is not in our power
of
to enlarge 'is discretion. It may be a hardship Washingto
upon the corporation, but the legislature only can PrEt.
decide Whether that hardship shall be perpetuated
or not. It must be observed, that the alternative
is one which would put it in the power of the assessor to designate a mere nominal owner, a kind
of casual ejector, in every case. Had Congress
intended to lighten the labours of the corporation,
or their assessor, in this respect, there were very
simple means of doing it;' they might have sanctioned a designation with reference to the first
or last vendee of record. But, it is obvious, that
Congress were very jealous of the exercise of this
power over the lots of absentees; and, in the previous provisions of this eighth section, they make
the right of selling, with referience to the time of
advertising, to depend expressly upon ownership ;
not reputed ownership or assessment: " to whom
the property belongs," are the words of the law.
When, therefore, they afterwards speak of publishing the name of the person to whom the lot
was assessed, they must be held to mean, the
name of him who was owner at the time of the
assessment. This removes many of the inconveniences apprehended from subsequent or fraudulent transfers ; and the inquiries remaining to
be made by the assessor, will be greatly simplified
by the operation of the registering laws of the
district. It will seldom happen, that the legal
estate does not, in fact, exist in the last vendee of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

record, or his heirs or devisees. The name of
real party in interest must have been, in the
eyes of Congress, the most awakening circum-

Sthe
Corporation

of

Washington stance of the advertisement required to warn him
V.

Pratt.

of his danger.

2. The second question is, whether, where
several lots belonged, and were assessed to one
person, and two years' taxes were due on every
one of them, it would be lawful to sell one of the
lots to pay the taxes due upon all, or each lot
would be liable only to be sold to pay. the tax due
on itself ?
This question, thus stated, does not admit of a
general answer.
That each lot stands encumbered with no more
than its own taxes, and the lien upon each is
several and distinct, results, not less from the provisions of thiseighth section, which gives the right
of redeeming severally, than from the consideration that, in case of a partial sale by the proprietor of many lots, the purchaser from him would
not, by the act of transfer, hold his purchase disencumbered of its own particular taxes, either
absolutely, or upon the contingency of the remaining lots of his vendor being adequate to the
satisfaction of the taxes due on the whole. Nor
would a purchaser of a single lot hold his pur-

chase encumbered with the taxes due on the whole
mass of lots held by the vendor: each would have
the right to redeem, upon paying the taxes assessed
on his own particular purchase, and would hold
his purchase subject to such taxes.
The provisions of the ,ct are clearly intended

OF THE UNITED STATES.

687

to raise the tax of each lot from itself. The 1829.
words are, so much thereof, not so many; as they '*v
Coardon
must have been, after speaking of " unimproved
of
lots," had it been intended to authorize the sale of w.b
some, for the taxes of others; a..d not the sale of Pratt.
each one, or "so much" as is necessary of each
one, ,for the payment of its own taxes. Apply the
enacting words to the case of an owner of a single lot, and the effect of the word " much," can
only be to authorize a sale of part of a lot, whenever circumstances will admit of such a sale, and
the sum due will not require more. But if taxes
be due by one and the same individual, in small
sums, upon many lots, and one lot being set up
for sale, produces a sum adequate to the payment
of all, -the whole arrears become paid off, and no
excuse can then exist for making further sales.
This exposition disposes of the second question.
3. The third question is, whether it be necessary that the advertisement should contain a particular statement of the amount of taxes due on
each lot separately; or, where several lots belonged
to the-same person, whether it would be sufficient
to state in the advertisement, the aggregate amount
of taxes due on all the lots so belonging to the
same person?
This may be a very immaterial question practically, and it may ndt be very easy to assign a
sufficient reason of policy for the one or other
alternative. But what have we to do with such
inquiries in cases of positive enactment ? The
law must be pursued, whatever be the previous

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

688
1.823.
.'
Corporation

of

steps required. The difficulty here presented, is
grounded on the use of the words in this eighth
section, "1amount of taxes," This,,in its ordinary

Washingto import, expresses an aggregate of taxes. But, it is
V.

Pratt.

obvious, that we cannot here apply that aggregate
idea to a sum mw, up from the taxes of many
lots; since this would also support the sufficiency
of a publication exhibiting nothing more than the
amount of taxes upon the whole list 'of lots advertised, whoever be the proprietors.' Some more
appropriate signification must, therefore, be sought
for it; and this is easily found ; for, when it is
considered, that the taxes of each lot are made
several liens upon each, it follows, that this aggregate idea can have reference only to the amount
made up from the arrears of the two years, which
must be due to authorize a sale.
We, therefore, think, that the taxes of each lot
ought to be severally exhibited. The operation
of such a provision must be the test of its own
policy. The duty is easily complied with, and
the performance of it may not be destitute of
practical utility.
4. The fourth point has not been pressed by
the appellants' counsel, nor can there be a doubt
entertained, that it is altogether against the appellants. The publication of the sum due, was
as necessary under the eighth section as any other
act required by it; the circumstance of time in
the. advertisement, therefore, could not have been
dispensed with as to that particular. An increase
of the sum demanded, necessarily required the
extension of the time of advertising. Non con-

6*9

OF THE UNITED STATES.

stat, but that the smaller sum may have been
provided and ready on the day of sale; or that

1825.
'-v-.,

Copormtion

of
the larger would not have been provided within
the legal time, had the advertisement been cin- Washington
V.
Pratt.

tinued.

5. The fifth questionis, whether, if unimproved
lots, on which two years' taxes be due, be advertised for sale, and the amount stated be greater
than that actually due,- the sale of such lots will
be void; and, if void, whether for the whole, or
only for the amount of excess, when the amount
is divisible, as it may be in the sale of several
lots ?
This question may be disposed of thus: As it
supposes that two years' taxes are actually due,
there can be no doubt that the lots may be severally sold; for the greater sum includes the less,
and the owner had his remedy to prevent a sale,
by tendering the amount actually due on any particular lot set up for sale. But if the corporation
are suffered to go on to sell, and the sale of any
one or more lots shall produce the amount actually
due on the whole, by the same individual, it is
clearly at their peril to proceed further. They
must, in law, be held cognisant of the amount
justly demandable, and have no power to sell, but
for taxes actually due.
The sixth question we understand to be withdrawn; and the seventh, at least in one view of
it, we consider as disposed of in the answers to
the first and fifth. If two years' taxes be actually
due by the party whose property is advertiied,.
and it be not tendered, the sale must be valid,
VOL.

S7

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
d
Sneed

v.

wster.

and the owner must be left to his remedy against
the corporation for adjusting the correct amount.
But if it be intended to obtain the decision of
this Court, whether one man's lots can be legally
sold for another man's debts, we cannot perceive
that it will admit of a question ; nor can it ever
occur, if the course be pursued which is marked
out by this decision.
The tenth point made in the cause, is one which
goes to contest the correctness of the decision
below, on a general principle of equity; but, understanding this question, as well as that which
arises upon the ground of the complainant's supposed remedy at law, to be withdrawn, we shall
decline noticing them.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

[FLEADIe. LoCAL LA1w.

SNEED

and others, Plaintifsin Error,
V.

WISTER

and others, Defendants in Error.

The Act of Assembly of Kentucky, of the 7th of February, 1812,
" giving interest on judgments for damages, in certain cases,"
applies as well to cases depending in the Circuit Courts of the
Union, as to proceedings in similar cases in the State Courts.
The party is as well entitled to interest in an action on an appeal
bond, as if he were to proceed on the judgment, if the. judgment
be'on a contract for the payment of money. He is entitled to interest fAm the rendition of the original judgment.

