CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

268

18Z25.
Spring
V.

stances of collusion are quite as strong, if not
Sstronger,

than in the George.

And we are there-

fore of opinion, that the decree of condemnation

S. C.Ins. of the prize and her cargo, to the United States,
ought to be affirmed, with costs.

Company.

[(n.CrAYr~.

LizEN.

Ass5GNM1ENT.)

SETH SPRiN, and Sons, Appellants,
V.

The

SOUTH CAROLINA IN.SURANCE COMPANY, GRAY

& PINDAR, WILLIAM LINDSAY, and JOHN HAS-

LETT, Respondents.
An insolvent debtor has a right to prefer one creditor to another in
payment by an assignment bonafide made, and no subsequent attachment, or subsequently acquired lien, will avoid the assignment.
Such an assignment may include choses in action, as a policy of insurance, and will entitle the assignee to receive from the underwriters the amount insured in case of a loss. It is not necessary, that
the assignment should be accompanied by an actual delivery of the
policy.
Upon a bill of interpleader, filed by underwriters against the different
creditors of an insolvent debtor, claiming the fund proceeding from
an insurance made for account of the debtor, some on the ground
ef speeit1 liens,.and others under the assigniment, the rights of the
respective parties will be determined. But, on ro.ch a: bill, those of
the co-defendants who fail in establishing any right to the fund,
are not entitled to an account from the defendant whose claims are
allowed, of the amount and origin of those claims.
On a bill of interpleader, the plaintiffs are in general entitled to their
costs out of the fund. Where the money is not brought into
Court, they must pay interest upon it.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
An insurance broker is'entitled to a lien on the policy for premiums

269
1823.

paid by him on account of his principal; and though he parts with
Spring
the possession, if the policy afterwards comes into his hands again,
V.
his lien is revived, unless the manner of his parting with it manifests his intention to abandon the lien. In such a ease, an inter- S.C. Ins.
Company.
mediate assignee takes cum onere.
But in the case of other liens acquired on the policy, if it be assigned,
bona jfde, for a valuable consideration, while out of the pqssesion
of the person acquiring the lien, and afterwards return into his
hands, the lien does not revive as against the assignee.
Evidence that a subscribing witness to a deed had been diligently inquired after, having gone to sea, and been absent for four years,

without having been heard from, is sufficient to let in secondary
proof of his handwriting.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of South
Carolina.
This was a bill of interpleader, filed by the
South Carolina Insurance Company in the Court
below, on the 25th of April, 1816, against the
appellants, and Gray & Pindar, William Lindsay.
and John IHaslett, praying, that they might file
their answers, and interplead, so that it might be
determined to whom the proceeds of a certain
policy of insurance should be paid. It appeared
by the pleadings, and the evidence in the cause,
that this policy had been made on the 6th of May,
1811, by tlie respondents, the South Carolina Insurance Company, upon a vessel called the Abigail Ann, then lying at Savannah, on a voyage to
Dublin, or a port in St. George's Channel, for account of John H. Dearborne, and the respondents,
Gray & Pindar, the latter of whom were merchants residing at Charleston, South Carolina,
and at that time part owners of the ship, but, on
the 27th of May. 1811, sold their interest therein

~1J

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182~.5
'sel
Bpgv

S. C.h

to Dearborne. On the 5th of July, 181 1', the vessailed on the voyage insured. It appeared,
that the respondent, Lindsay, as the agent of the
parties, had procured this policy to be underwritten. It also appeared, that Lindsay had delivered
the policy to Gray & Pindar, for the use of Gray
& Pindat, and Dearborne, without at the same
time expressly claiming any lien upon it.
After the sailing of the Abigail Ann, Dearborne,
and Gray & Pindar, jointly purchased and loaded
another ship, called the Levi Dearborne, of which
vessel and cargo Dearborne owned two thirds,
and Gray & Pindar one third. In September,
1811, this vessel sailed from Savannah for Europe,
and Dearborne went in her. Before sailing, D.
had drawn bills on England, some of which were
endorsed and negotiated by Lindsayi which were
returned protested for non-acceptance, and Lindsay was compelled to pay them. Haslett also
made advances to Dearborne, and took -i bills on
England, secured by a bottomry bond on the ship
Levi Dearborne. These bills also returned protested.
Before Dearborne left Savannah, certain minunderstanding arose between him and Gray &
Pindar, which it was agreed should be referred td
arbitrators. On the 21st of September, 1811, the
arbitrators, and one Harford, as umpire, awarded
that Gray & Pindar should execute a bill of sale
of the ship Abigail Ann to Dearboibe, and deliver
to him the policy of insurance thereon, without
unnecessary delay. Before he sailed, Dearborne
directed Harford to transmit to his wife, in the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

District of Maine, to the care of Seth Spring &
Sons, the bill of sale, and policy of insurance,

which had been thus awarded to him. The policy

271
182,3.
Spring

v.
S. C.
was subsequently sent by Harford to Lindsay, to CoIn.

be put in suit against the South Carolina Insurance
Company.
The ship Levi Dearborne was obliged to put
into New-York by stress of weather, and there
Dearborne, on the 28th of October, 1811, made
an assignment of the Abigail Ann, and of his interest in the ship Levi Dearborne, and of the policies upon both vessels, to S. Spring & Sons, to
secure the payment -f a. debt due by Dearborne
to them, amounting to about 16,000 dollars. The
handwriting of Dearborne, and of the subscribing
witness to the deed of assignmeht, were both
proved; and one Maria Teubner, who testified to
that of the iubscribing witness, swore that she
was one of his creditors, and had taken pains to
obtain information of where he was, but without
success. The last account of him was, that he
had. entered on board of an American privateer,
during the late war, and had not been heard of
for four years. The assignment was made subject to pay out of the cargo-of the Abigail Ann,
if it reached the hands of his correspondents in
England, certain bills which he had drawn on
them, in the confidence that they would be paid
out of the cargo of the Levi Dearborne. Nothing
was realized from that vessel and cargo, and the
Abigail Ann was lost at sea. An action was
brought upon the policy on the Abigail Ann, in
the names of Dearborne, and Gray & Pindar,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
"

Spring

against the South Carolina Insurance Company,

and judgment obtained against the latter, in 1815,

V. for the sum of 9,800 dollars. Dearborne died in
company. March, 1813. On the 24th of February, 1812,
Lindsay, on the return of the bills endorsed by
him, issued an attachment under the laws of South
Carolina, against Dearbo'rne, who was then absent from that state, and ser~ed a copy upon the
South Carolina Insurance Company. On the 21st
of May, 1812, Haglett also issued an attachment
against Dearborne, and served a copy on the
South Carolina Insurance Company. No appearance was entered for Dearbrne in these attachment suits, and judgment was obtained on Lindsay's on the 19th of April, 1813, and on HasIett's on the 10thof June, 1815.
At the hearing in the Court below, after the
depositions, and regularly proved exhibits in the
cause had been read, an order signed by Harford,
as agent, for. Dearborne, and S. Spring& Sons,
on Lindsay, in favour of -Vaslett,was read in evidence, without notice to the appellants, or an order
for its being read at the hearing.
The Circuit Court decreed, that the demand of
Lindsay should be first satisfied, and paid out of
the fund ; that of Gray & Pindar next ;. that. of
S. Spring & Sons next; that Haslett was entitled
to .the surplus, if any; and that S. Spring & Sons
should account, and prove their claims against
Dearborne, either by filing a cross-bill, or by an-

swering upon interrogatories.
From this decree an appeal was taken by S.
Spring & Company to this Court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1273

Mr. Wheaton, for the appellants, stated, 1. That 1823.
he would first clear the case. of all extraneous %av'%
matters, and for this purpose would throw out of
V.
it both Haslett's and Lindsay's claim. The for- s. .
iner was justly postponed to that of S. Spring &
Sons, by the Court below; he has not appealed, F . ish.
and could have no claim under the attachment
suits, for Dearborne died before his suit was even
commenced. The claim of Lindsay, (so as it
arises from his attachment) must also be rejected
on two grounds: 1st. The policy of insurance on
the Abigail Ann had been transferred long before
his suit. 2d. It was-abated by the death of Dearborne. This was understood to be the local law,
as established by the decisions of the Courts of
South Carolina.4 The order, dated the 2Md of
May, 1813, and signed by Harford, as Dearborne's agent, and read in evidence as an exhibit,
must also be e.cluded from the cause. There is
no evidence that he was the agent of Dearborne
for this purpose; -and even if he had been, the
paper was irregularly introduced. It is the settled
practice of the Court of Chancery, wherever ay
thing like a regular practice prevails, that no exhibit can be proved at the hearing, without satisfactory-reasons why it was not proved in the usual
way, before the examiner; and if proved at the
hearing,. a crois-examination of the witnesses is
always allowed. And an order must be previously obtained, or, at least, notice given."
a Cracker v.-Radelffe, Constitutional Curt S. C., 1812, MIS.
b Conseqts v. Fanning, 2 Johne. Ch. Rep. 481. an tht. e ses
there cited.
VIOL. VIII.

35

274
*

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

2. The decree below seems to be mainly
founded on Harford's order, thus irregularly interSpring
V. polated into the cause. Before the pretelpded
.Cany.lens of Gray & Pindar, and of Lindsay, had
attacied, the assignment had vested the property
in the appellants, S. Spring & Sons. Lindsay,
after he had delivered up the policy, and an intermediate transfer of it to bonce fidei purchasers,
could not, by again 'obtaining possession; of it,
without the consent of such purchasers, regain
his lien, even if he ever had one. His possession
was wrongful; and if rightful, he had no right to
retain for a general balance. The lien of a policy
broker is confined to his general balance on policy
transactions, and does not extend to other debts."
Properly speaking, there is no such thing as a lien
by contract. Liens are created by the law, and
pledges by contract. But no e:kpress pledge is
proved in this case. Neither can the analogy of
the law of stoppage, in transitu,be applied, where
the property has already been transferred to a
creditor or other bonac ,fei purchaser.
.S. In a bill of interpleader, all the parties are
actors. Each party states his own claim, and the
admission of no one is evidence against another.
The appellants are not bound by the admission of
the other co-defendants. They do not admit any
such liens as are set up by the other parties, and
no evidence is produced of their existence, except
the order of Harford, which cannot be admitted.
Non constat when that order was executed. It

1823.

a Olive v. Smith, 5 Taunt. Rp. 57.

OF -THE UNITED STATES.

might have been at the very moment before the
heating; and the
• bare possibility of this shovs
the danger of permitting it to be read in evidence

275
1823.
Spring

V.In&
S. C.

without notice, and without cross-examination. co.pan.

4. There are, besides, several formal objections.
The plaintiffs below do not offer to bring the money into Court, nor is there apy affidavit accompanying the bill, and showing that it was filed without collusion. The want of this was a ground of
demurrer, and they are' clearly not entitled to their
costs out of the fund.a The appellants are the
only parties who, .in answering, insist on their
rights - the others merely pray to be dismissed.
Mr. Gkehes; contra, stated, that there were four
olhims in this case;
'1. That of Haslett.
2. That of Lindsay.
3. That of Gray & Pindars
4. That of the appellants,,S. Spring & Sons..
1. The decree adjudges the surplus, if any, to
Haslett, after payment of the other claims.- But
he has no claim upon the fund in controversy,
unless it arises under his attachment. The case
of Crocker v. Radclife, referred to"on the other
side, is not before the Court in a shape in which
the precise point decided can be known. The
point said to have been ruled in that case, appears
to -have. been determined otherwise in a previous
case ; and the principle of this last decision apa 1 Madcl CM. 174. 181.
b Kennedy v. Raguet, I Bay's Rep. 484.

276
1823.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

pears to be correct.

The proceeding by attach-

\

Jment is a proceeding in rem, and, therefore, ought
Spring
v.
not to abate by the death of the party. It is pros. C.
bable, that in Crocker v. Radcliffe, nothing had
Gony. been attached upon the process, and, therefore,
the suit was adjudged to abate by the defendant's
death ; but, in the present case, the fund in question was attached, and is bound by that attachment, subject only to the previous liens.
2. Lindsay's claim is supported by the law of
liens.a Though he may have parted with possession of the policy for a time, upon regaining it,
his lien was re-established.b But if the lien of
Gray & Pindar, to whom he parted with the possession, be established, that will cover his claim,
they being prior endorsers on the bills which form
his demand, and their claim also embracing those
bills.
3. The claim of Gray & Pindar is supported
by express contract, as well as the general law of
lien. The express contract is supported by the
testimony of Harford. The implied lien is supported by the possession of Lindsay, which was
the possession of Gray & Pindar until he delivered it to them, and afterwards by the possession of
Harford, whose possession also was their possessioin. Their lien embraces as well the bills which
they endorsed for Dearborne, that were returned
protested for non-payment, and were paid by
)Lindsay, as the sums they have actually paid.
a W itaker'sLafo of Liens, 26. 103, 104.
6 Id. 121, 122,

OF THE UNITED STATES,

The case of Mann v. Shiffner,a covers the whole 1823.
of this claim. Manual possession is not neces- - Spring
v.
sary. It is the power to control the possession
sC.n.c.
not
impair
which gives the lien.' The awardofdid
Gray & Pinthe lien, without the acquiescence
dar, and the surrender of the possession of the
policy. It did not even give a right to the possession. The only remedy was an action on the
award.0 But the award itself was not valid. The
testimony of Harford proves, that the indemnity
of Gray & Pindar for their endorsement of Dearborne's bills, was one of the points submitted, and
as it was not determined, the award is void."
4. The claim of the appellants, S. Spring &
Sons, is not sufficiently proved. They have not
proved either the deed of assignment under which
they claim; or the debt for which they claim. The
subscribing witness to the deed is not produced or
examined.9 The testimony to prove his handwriting is doubtful and improbable. The assignment alleges a debt of about 16,000 dollars. The
evidence shows only that the appellants paid
2900 dollars for the assignor, three dr four years
before, and that they became his surety for 1200
dollars more at the time of the assignment. These,
and many other circumstances, give good reason
to doubt the integrity of the transaction.
The objections to the form of the bill, and to
a 2 East's Rep. 523.

V"Whitaker's Law of Lien, 105, 106.c Hunter v. Rice, 15 East's Rep. 100.
d Mitchell v. Stuvely, 16 East's Rep. 58.
e 5 Cranc '.s Rep. 13. 4 Taunt. Rep. 46.

278

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

the answer of the three first mentioned claimants,
be sustained. (1.) The only consequences
Spring
S. C.
of not offering in the bill to bring the money into
V. Ins.
Company. Court were, that the parties interpleaded might
v

'cannot

have moved the Court to order the complainants
to pay it into Court; or, perhaps, they might have
demurred. They have done neither, and they are
now too late with their objection. (2.) The same
answer is applicable to the objection for want of
an affidavit, that the bill was exhibited without
fraud or collusion. They might have demurred,
but they have not done so. (3.) As, to the omission of the answer (except that of the appellants)
to pray for a decree other than their dismissal with
costs: this is the common form prescribed by the
books of practice, and will sustain a decree for
the defendants other than a decree of dismissal
with costs. And even though the objection were,
in general, well founded, it could not affect this
decree, if it can be sust4ined on the merits; because, as to the appellants, they can only be satisfied after payment of Lindsay, and of Gray &
Pindar ;-and as to Haslett's claim, after the others
are satisfied, his attachment will bind the surplus.
Mr. Webster, for the appellants, in reply, argued,
that in this form of suit, being a bill 6f interpleader, even if S. Spring & Sons made out no
title, it did not follow that the decree must be affirmed. For aught that appeared, the right party
might not yet be before the Court. The personal
representatives of Dearborne may be necessary
parties. Every distinct claim stands on its own

OF THE UNITED STATES.

279

merits; and even if Spring & Sons are not enti- 1823.
tied, the fund cannot be decreed to others, unless
V.
they prove themselves to be entitled.
S. C.I=s
There are two questions: (1.) Can the decree, Comy.
so far as it allows Lindsay's and Gray & Pindar's
claims, be maintained ? (2.) Can their claim
be preferred to those of Spring & Sons ?
And first, as to Lindsay's claim. So far as it
is founded upon the attachment suit, it cannot be
supported. The judgment against Dearbome,
who was dead 6t the time, is a mere nullity. Besides, the property in the fund had actually been
transferred to Spring & Sons before the attachment waslaid. If therie was a previous lien, the
party does n,-+ stand in need of the judgment. If
there was not, we property was vested in others
by the assignment, and the judgment came too
late. But he could have acquired no such lien as
that which is now set up. There is no rule of
law which declares, that if a creditor gets, by- any
means -whatsoever, possession of the effects of
-his debtor,- he has thereby a lien as of course.
There is here no proof of an actual pledge; and
a general lien he cannot have, because, although
a broker has. a lien for his general balance, on
account of policy brokerage, it does not extend
to other brokerage.. The case cited from 5 Taunto., is decisive to this point. If it be said that
he is, not a broker, then the case is so much
stronger against him, for he can have no brokerage
balance for which to retain. Besides, he having
once parted with the possession of the policy,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Spring

V.

S. C.,n&

without insisting on his lien, it does not revive by
to his possession again.
As to Gray & Pindar's claim. It rests on two

Sreturning

C...ny. grounds.

(I.) A general lien.

(2.) A special

agreement. But how can they claim a general
lien? They are not insurance brokers. In - Jer
to make out a lien, they must show some course
of trade, and some dealing and relation between
the parties, to authorize it: a debt, and a liability
are not alone sufficient. It is said, they had a
lien, because they have never been devested of
possession. But, possession does not create a
-lien. There must be a right to claim. The assignment operated on the policy in the hands of
Gray & Pindar, just as if there had been an actual delivery to the assignees. A lien cannot exist
by the party merely having the legal control.
That control must be coupled with an interest in
the thing. A trustee cannot set up a lien for debts
generally, merely because the estate stands in his
naue.
But, even supposing Gray & Pindar once had
such a lien, it was defeated by the award, that the
policy should be given up by them to the order of
Dearborne. The award here pleaded, is perfectly
good on the face of it; it is completely binding
on the parties, and cannot be in this way impeached. A party cannot claim, in equity, against
an award, without impeaching it by bill." There
is here no proof of partiality, or corrupion, or
excess of power; and nothing else will, in equity,
a Dickens, 474.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2,91

set aside an award.a It is said the award does 1826.
not bind, because -the arbitrators did not award
Spring
an indemnity ; and to support this position, a case S. C.V.IM
is cited where they would not act at all on the ComPMny.
131aim. That case is not this. There is no evidence that Gray & Pindar ever made any claim
far indemnityr before the arbitratcirs; and if they
did; fdr aught that appears, it was rightly refuied.
The award, then, is clearly a bar to any claim existiig before the time of the award. If there was
any express agreement. for a lien before the award,
it is merged in the award; and there is no evidence of any such agreement subsequently made.
As to Harford's order, we do not object to its
introductidn in poiit of form, but of substance.
It is not proved; and if proved, it is a mere nullity. Harford signs it as attorney to Dearborne,
who was then dead, and of Spring & Sons, whose
attorney he never was. He never was even Dearborne's agent, for any other purpose than to transmit the policy to his wife.
As to the assignment to Spring & Sons, it is
established by the decree, and that part of the
decree is not appealed frorn. Spring & Sons
have appedledi on account of the preference given
to Lindsay and Gray & Pindar: but they have a
right to stand on that part of the decree which
detiates the assignment to bd well 'proved and
valid. But the execution of the assignment is
a 3 Atk. 529.

Ambl. 245. Dick. 44. 2 Ves. jr. 15. 6 Ves.

282.

VOL. VIII.

36

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Spring

sufficiently proved by the evidence. It is a clear
case for admitting secondary evidence.

V.

Company.

s. C. Iny.

Mr. Justice LIVINGSTox delivered the opinion

Feb. 21a1.

of the Court, and, after stating the case, proceeded
as follows:
In reviewing these proceedings, the. first question necessary to decide is, to whom. the policy,
mentioned in the complainant's bill, belonged at
the time of commencing the action on it. It does
not appear that the names of the parties interested
in the Abigail Ann, were disclosed to the Company, at the time of applying for insurance, or
that their names were inserted in the policy.
There is, however, no doubt, that when it was
effected, Gray & Pindar, and John H. Dearborne,
were the owners; but in what proportions does
not appear, nor is it material now to be known,
for whatever interest was held by Gray & Pindar,
was regularly transferred to Dearborne, by their
bill of sale, dated the 27th of May, 1811. This
bill of sale is for the whole ship, and its consideration is 5000 dollars. Some time after, in the same
year, Gray & Pindar delivered to Henry Harford,
as agent .of Dearborne, the policy of insurance
which had been made on it. Dearborne being
thus sole proprietor of the Abigail Ann and
policy, on the 28th of October, 1811, executed a
bill of sale for the vessel, containing an assign-

What

testiony, as to the
absence of a
subscribing

ment also of the policy, for valuable consideration, to John Spring, of the firm of Seth Spring

witnss,is e-&
cessary to let
in secondary

proof of his
handwriting.

Sons.

Some objections were made to the

proof of the execution of the instrument, but

OF THE UNITED STATES.

293

they were not listened to below, nor are they re- 1M.
garded as well founded by this Court. The proof
Spring
was such as is required where a party to a deed
v.
and.the subscribing witness are both dead. The Comnpany.
s*C. i.'
and Maria
handwriting of both was proved,
Teubner, who testified to that of the witness, left
no reasonable ground to doubt of his death. She
was a creditor of this witness, and had taken some
pains to obtain information wlere he was, but
without success: her last account of him wasi that
he had entered dn board an American privateer,
and had not been heard of for four years. The
eredit of this witness, although the subject of
some animadversion, is not impeached by-any testimony in the causei or by any thing which she
herself has testified. It follows, then, that on the
28th of )ctober, 1811, Seth Spring & Sons became proprietors of the ship Abigail Ann, and of
the policy- mentioned in these pleadings, and
prima facie entitledto the whole of the moneys
recovered on it, although the policy itself was not,
at the time, put into their hands. Our next inquiry will be, whether any of .te other parties,
who are now before us, have a lien Ion it, or any
other title to these moneys, or to any part of
them.
The claim of Haslett may be considered as out
of the question-it having been postponed by the
Circuit Court to that of the appellants, and there
being no appeal from this part of the decree.
Lindsay's demand will first be examined. This
is made up of the premium paid for effecting the
insurance-of an indemnity claimed by him for

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

endorsing two bills of exchange for Dearborne,
to 400 pounds sterling, and for having
~6mounting
Spring
s. ins, become his bail-of the customary commissions
his trouble and attention in conducting the suit
S-cIn1an. for
against
the underwriters, and of the amount
of a
judgment which he obtained on the 19th of April,
1813, against Dearborne, on an attachmeit issued
out of the Common Pleas for the district of
Charleston, and which had been served on the
complainants. This attachment was sued out on
the 24th of. February, 1812.
No evidence is perceived in the proceedings in
support of any one of these claims, except that
which is founded on the judgment in the attachment. In his answer, Lindsay says that the policy
was effected on his application, but no where pretends or alleges that he paid the premium for insuring the Abigail Ann, nor is there any proof
aliunde of this fact. On the contrary, Gray &
Pindar, in their ansWer, expressly state, that it
was paid by them, and was probably allowed in
their account against Dearborne, in making up
the award hereinafter mentioned. Haslett, in
his answer, asserts that it was advanced by him.
Now, although the answer of one defendant be
no evidence against another, -yet, in the absence
of all proof to the contrary, and where a party
observes a profound silence on a subject to which
his attention could not but be excited, such answer, not varying from any allegation on his part,
furnishes some evidence that he could not make
the assertion, because the fact was, in reality,
otherwise.
1823.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

285

If this fact of the payment of the premium had

1823.

been made out, the Court would have been dis-

SRring

V.11M
posed to award Mr. Lindsay payment out of the S. C.
proceeds of the policy, for although he had once Com y.
parted with it, yet, coming to his hands again, to
of broker
be put in suit, his lien for the premium would re- Un
o
of his ° th UCY.
manner
the
unless
protected,
be
and
vive
parting with it had manifested an intention in him
altogether to abandon such lien. His claim for a
commission for conducting the suit against the underwriters is inadmissible, it appearing from the
testimony of Harford, who transmitted the policy
to him, and who is the only witness on. this subject, that he has no right to make any such charge.
Harford considers himself entitled to this commission, and has accordingly charged it to Dearbotne,
in an account annexed to his deposition. Now,
as this is the witness on whom all the defendants,
except Seth Spring & Sons, principally rely, they
cannot complain, if his testimony, when unfavourable, is allowed its full operation against them.
It is evident, then, from the declaration of this
witness, that he considered himself as the merchant who was proseciating the suit, and that Mr.
Lindsay was only employed to deliver the policy
to a professional gentleman to bring the action.
There is another obstacle in the way of this claim,
which is, that Lindsay, in the business of this
suit, acted, as Harford himself says, as his (Harford's) agent. Now there is not only no evidence
of Hasford himself being authorized by the owners of this policy, to bring any action on it;but it appears that his detention of it was a violation of duty,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1o23.
'--

Spring

and that the action he brought, was more to answer his own purposes, and those of the other de-

fendants, -than to advance the interest of those
V.
Company. whom he knew at the time to be assignees of
the policy. In this state of things, nothing would
be more unjust than to permit this fund to be encumbered, as against Seth Spring & Sons, with
the heavy charge of 5 per centum, in favour
of any one of the parties, who, throughout the
whole business, have had in view exclusively their
own interest, and were acting in open hostility to
those from whom they now demand this compensaition. With what propriety can they now claim
a commission from these gentlemen, when it is
entirely or principally owing to their interference,
that they have not to this day received any benefit
from' a judgment which was recovered for their
use nearly eight years ago?
Lindsay's claim to receive any part of this fund,
on account of the two bills of exchange for 200
pounds each, is equally unfounded. That he
would have had a lien on the policy for this transaction, without an express contract, (and none appears,) even if he had never parted with its possession, is a proposition which may well be controverted; but if such lien ever existed, (which is
not asserted,) it is not like that for the premium
advanced for an insurance; the latter may well revive, in some cases, on a broker's being restored
to the possession of a policy, which had once been
out of his bands; it being fno more than reasonable, that 'whoever acquires an interest in it, should
generally take it, subject to sut~h a charge. It

OF THE UNITED STATES.

does not, however, follow, that liens, which may
once have existed for other advances, or on other

287
1823.
s9pring

accounts, whether by agreement of the parties,
V.
S. C. Inm.
or by the operation of usage or of law, should be Compay.
placed on the same favoured footing. If, while a
policy is out of the hands of the insurance broker,
as was the case here, it is assigned for valuable
consideration and bonafide, it would be unjust,
on its returning to his possession, to revive encumbrances, of which the assignee could have had no
notice, nor no certain means of finding out; for he
could not reasonably suspect, that such liens had
ever existed in favour of one who had parted with
the possession of the only thing by which they
could have been enforced. Nor can it make any
difference whether the policy have been actually
delivered to the assignee, provided the transfer
were bonafide made, while out of the possession
and power of the insurance broker. Upon the same
principle it is, that a consignor loses his right to
stop goods in transitu, although thd consignee
have become insolvent, after such consignee, having power to sell, has disposed of them, before
their arrival, to a third person, unacquainted with
any circumstance to taint the fairness of the transaction.

The next charge which Lindsay attempts to fix
upon this fund, is an indemnification for becoming
bail for Dearborne. Now, if a responsibility, so
contingent and remote as one of this nature, could
by any possibility, without a very positive and express agreement, be turned into a lien on a policy
of insurance, it does, not appear in what suits he

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

has thus become bail, nor whether he has not been
released by the death of the principal of all liapvr.ng bility; and of course any demand arising from
s.C. IDS. such responsibility, if any ever existed, must be
Company.
1823.

\

laid out of the question. And the answer which
has already been given to his claim for endorsing
certain bills of exchange, will also apply here.
The judgment obtained in the attachment suit
may be as easily disposed of. It is quite unnecessary to inquire whether these proceedings
abated by the death of Dearborne, if he were dead
at the. time; for at the time of issuing the attachment, and of course long before judgment, Dearborne ceased to have any interest in this policy,
the same having been already assigned to John
Spring, of the firm of Seth Spring & Sons. No
attachment, therefore, against Dearborne, although
served on the Company, could render the property
of another liable for his debts. The qttachment
of Lindsay, it may incidentally be observed, furnishes some proof that he had no great confidence
in the- liens which he now asserts against this policy.
The title of Gray & Pindar remains to be examiAed. By their answer they claim five hundred
and two dollars, as the premium paid for insurance
on the Abigail Ann, and fifty dollars, paid as a
commission for. effecting the same. They likewise
state; that large advances were made by them, .between the 5th of. April and 7th of August, 1811,
on account of the said ship, her cargo, pilotage,
and repairs; and they, also, it seems, became the
bail of Dearborne in two several actions. amount

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ing to one thousand dollars, which they have since

2.89
182b.

become liable to pay; they were, also, endorsers ','
Spwing '
of the two bills of exchange which were endorsed
V.
c.In.
s.
demands,
these
all
stating
After
by Lindsay.

they say, that upon closing the account between
Dearborne and themselves, there was a balance
in their favour of 1430 dollars and 16 cents, for
which Dearborne gave them a bill of exchange
on Logan, Lenon & Co., of Liverpool; that feeling uneasy and insecure from the responsibility
resting on them, and aware that they could be
indemtified only by a specific lien, they would not
deliver to Dearborne the policy, but put it for safe
keeping into the hands of their friend, Henry
Haiford, for the express and avowed purpose of
protecting them against all losses on the accounts
aforesaid; the said policy being also intended as a
security for certain debts due by Dearborne to
Harford. Now, without looking any further than
the answer of these gentlemen, it is most manifest that none of the demands or responsibilities
which are stated in it, were contracted or entered
into under any agreement or understanding with
Dearborne himself, as Harford would have us believe, that they should be secured by a lien on
this policy, but that such lien is set up solely on
the ground of a subsequent understanding between them -and Harford, to whom it was delivered, for the purpose of protecting them against
loss. To derive any benefit from such a delivery,
br such an assent on the part of Harford, it should
appear, (which is not the cise,) that they had a
rinht to exact, and Harford a right to accept, of
V(L. Viii.

37

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the policy on these terms. Unfortunately for these
Sgentlemen, the testimony of their friend and witSpring
S. C.V.
In,. ness, Mr. Harford, most incontestably establishes,
Company. that they were bound by the decision of persons
of their own choice, of whom Harford himself
was one, to deliver the policy, without annexing
to such an act any condition or terms whatever
and also, that the authority of Harford extended
only to its receipt and transmisaion to Mrs. Dearborne, the wife of Mr. John H. Dearborne. On
the 21st of Septemnber, 1811, which is subsequent
to all their advances, endorsements, and engagements for John H. Dearborne, he and Gray ,&
Pindar submitted all their controversies to two ar11itrators, who, in conjunction with Harford, as
umpire, awarded that Gray & Pindar should pay
to Dear'borne 66 dollars and 77 cents, and surrender to him the policy on the Abigail Ann, without
unriecessary delay. Now, this award could not
have been signed by Harford, if he knew of any
lien to which Gray & Pindar were entitled on this
policy. It was said that no notice could be taken
of this award; but coming, as it does, from a
Witness of the party, who was himself umpire,
Ithd not being impeached, this Court cannot,
Withotit i1justice, shut its eyes upon it. If a bill
for its specific performance might have been entrtained, which was not denied, what higher or
better evidenbe can the Court have of the rights
of the respective parties, at the time of the transactions referred to in the answer of Gray & Pindar? If Judges of their own selection have directed thetn, as they had a right to do, to surren1823.

O

THE UNITED STATES.

der this policy without delay, and unconditionally, 1823.
to Dearborne, this Court must now presume, (and
8pring
it is a presumption with which neither Gray &
V.
S.C. In
Pindar, nor Harford, can be.justly offended,) that
latter, pursuant to
the policy was delivered to the
the award; and if not, that any condition with
which they thought proper to accompany such delivery, if not a breach of the arbitration bond,
would at least be a trespass on good faith; and
that no assent or understanding, on the part of
Harford, who was without authority for this purpose, could confer any validity, or give any sanction to such an act. This award is also of importance, to show how entirely mistaken Gray &
Pindar are, in supposing Dearborne, at the time
Yhey speak of, so largely in their debt, when it
appears by this instrument, that the balance, although not a large one, was in his favour.
As to Harford's power, it appears, from his owit
letters, that he had no other authority than to
transmit the policy, when received, to the family
of Doarborne. Accordingly, in a letter to Seth
$prjpg & Sons, of the 26th of September, 1811.
he transmits, for Mrs. Dearborne, the bill of sale
for the Abigail Ann. And in another letter of
the d of November following, to the same gentlemen, he apologizes for not sending on the
policy, as it had not yet been received from
Charleston. After this unequivocal evidence of
what was his authority over this policy, it becomes
quite unimportant to inquire what agreements he
may have made, or what orders he gave Lindsay
respecting the proceeds of it. It is not too muph

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. to say, that the one of the 13th of May, 1813, in
'favour
of Haslett, by which the whole proceeds,
Spring
B..
after Lindsay's retaining for himself his legal
C*
claim and expenses, was a palpable violation of
Company. duty, or breach of instruction, towards Dearborne; and it was properly said by the Circuit
Court, " that to vest any interest, hostile to that
of Seth Spring & Sons, was certainly not in his
power." Gray & Pindar having been originally
interested in this ship and policy, on which there
was some reliance by their counsel, places them,
as it regards a lien, in a condition less favourable
than if such ownership had never existed; for by
such overt acts, as the execution of a bill of sale of
the vessel, and a delivery of the policy, pursuant
to the award, to the agent of Dearborne, they
have done all in their power to inform the world
that they had no claim on either for any demands
against Dearborne.
There is error, also, in that part of the decree,
which directs Seth Spring & Sons to account for
their claims on Dearborne. The complainants
have no right to -an account; and the defendants
being called here only to interplead, and having
failed to establish any claim on this fund, have as
little right to such an account. They cannot, at any
rate, require it in the position in which they no*
stand as eo-defendants with Seth Spring & Sons.
It is but justice to remark, that for aught that appears in the present suit, there is no reason to
suspect the integrity of the assignment to Seth
Spring & Sons - they appear to be respectable
merehants, and to have been large creditors of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

293

It. is the opinion of this Court, that

1823.

the decree of the Circuit Court be reversed, so

Spring

Dearborne.

V.
far as it postponed the demand of the appellants
Pindar, and scC'r.
to those of Lindsay and of Gray &
that instead thereof,
directed them to account; and
a decree must be entered in their favour, for the
whole amount recovered on the policy, with interest, (the money. not having been brought into
Court,) at the -rate of 6 per cent. per annum,
from the - time of rendering the judgment, the
complainants deducting therefrom their costs of
suit. The defendants must pay their own costs.
DECREE. This cause coming on to be heard,
and being argued by counsel of the respective
parties: It is ORDERED, ADJUDGED, and DECREED,
that the decree of the Circuit Court for the District
of Sopth Carolina, in this case, be, and the same
is, hereby reversed and annulled: and this Court,
proceeding to pass such decree as the said Circuit
Court for the District of South Carolina should
have passed, doth further ORDER and DECREE, that
the complainants pay to the defendant, John
Spring, of the firm of Seth Spring & Sons, the
whole amount of the judgment recovered against
them on the policy .on the ship Abigail Ann, mentioned in the pleadings in this cause, with interest,
at the rate of 6 per centum per annum, from the
time of rendering such judgment, after deducting
therefrom their costs of suit, to be taxed. And it
is further ORDERED, ADJUDGED, and DECREED, that
the defendants in the said Circuit Court, respectively, pay their own costs.

