OF THE UNITED STATES.

407
1823.
Luminary.

[Is.A&zCE CouT.

The

LUmINARY.

RzGISTrY ACT.]

L'AMouPEAUX, Claimant.

A case of forfeiture, under the 27th section of the Registry of Vessels Act, of December 31, 1792, c. 146. for the fraudulent use of
a register, by a vessel not actually entitled to the benefit of it.
Where the onu probandiis thrown on the claimant, in an Instance
or revenue cause, by a prima fade case, made out on the part of
the'prosecutor, and the claimant fails to explain the difficulties of
the case, by the production of papers and other evidence, which
must be in his possession, or under his control; condemnation
follows from the defects of testimony on the part of the claimant.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogden,
for the appellant, and by the Attorney General,
for the respondents.

. 24t&

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the ,ar7t 58.
Court. This is a libel for an asserted forfeiture,
founded on a violation of the 27th section of the
act of 31st of December, 1792, c. 146. concerning the registering and recording of ships and
vessels.a The libel charges, that the certificate
of registry or record of the schooner, made to
one John C. King, as owner, was fraudulently
or knowingly used for the said schooner, on a
a Which provides, "that if any certificate of registry, or reeord, shall be fraudulently or knowingly used for any ship or vessel, not then actually entitled to the benefit thereof, according to
the true intent of this act, such ship or vessel shall be forfeited to
the United States, with her tackle, apparel, and furniture."'

408

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

voyage at and from Baltimore to Cayenne, and
at and before her subsequent arrival at NewT he
Luminary. Orleans, she not being entitled to the benefit
thereof. The claim put in a dpriial to the allegation of forfeiture ; and upon a hearing in the
District Court of Louisiana, a decree of condemnation was pronounced, upon which an appeal
has been taken to this 'Court.
The facts of the case are these. The vessel
sailed from Baltimore about the first of August,
1820, under the command of a Captain James
Smith, having on board a Mr. Desmoland, whowas
owner of a part of the cargo, and being bound on
a voyage to Cayenne. A letter of'instructions
was delivered to the master by the ostensible
owner, John C. King, which, among other things,
after stating the voyage, and ordering a delivery
of the cargo agreeably to the bill of lading, contained the following directions: " Mr. Joseph
Desmoland, who goes out ih the vessel, will provide you with every thing necessary for that purpose. You will, as soon as you are required by
this gentleman, deliver to him the schooner Luminary, with her boats, &c. having care to retain in
your possession the register, and every other paper.
Mr. Desmoland will discharge the crew agreeably
to the laws of the United States; and this also you
will be careful to see executed, and bring your
proof thereof. As to yourself, Mr. Desmoland is
to pay you according to agreement, that is to say,
your wages due, and two months extra, sixty dollars per month. The remainder of the crew to
receive the like pay, that is to say, two months
1823.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

extra wages."

"You will, also, during the whole

1823.

voyage, abide by, and follow the instructiois of
The
Mr. J. Desmoland."
Luminary.
It is difficult to read this letter, and not at once
perceive, that the voyage of the, vessel was to end
at Cayenne, and that her master and crew were to
be discharged, the register separated from the
vessel, and all the usual proceedings- had which
are contemplated by our laws, where a vessel is.
transferred orsold in a foreign port. The vessel
was thenceforth to be under the sole government
and direction of Mr. Desmoland, and all authority
and control of the former owner was to cease. The
question naturally arises, how this could happen?
If the vessel was transferred to Mr. Desmoland
at Baltimore,-it admits of.an easy explanation. If
she was to be sold by him at Cayeniie, for the -account of the former owner, as his agent, it would
seem more consonant to the ordinary course of
businiess, that the instructions should have been
conditional, and should have stated the expectation of sale, and have provided for the event of an
unsuccessfil attempt of this nature. Mr. Desmoland would have been referred to as an agent, for
there could be no reason to conceal that agency.
At all events, the true nature of the case lies
within the privity of King and Desmoland; and
they have the full means to explain the transaction,
if it be innocent. There must exist in the possession of Mr. De'smoland the documents under
which he derived title from King, whatever that
title may be ; and his silence, after the most ample
opportunity for explanation, and for the production
VdL. VMI

52

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

'

1823.

of these papers, affords a strong presumptioti,

Tha

that, if produced, they would not aid his cause, or
prove his innocence.
The schooner arrived at Cayenne, and from
thence she was despatched to New-Orleans by Mr.
Desmoland, under the command of the same master, with the -same register, and was entered at
New-Orleanp as an American vessel. Mr. L'Amoureaux came on board her at Cayenne, and the laconic instructions given by Mr. Desmoland to the
master, for the voyage, were in these words : -"I
hereby desire Captain James Smith, on his arrival
at New-Orleans, to deliver the schooner Luminary,
with all her tackle, &c. to Francois L'Amoureaux,
who goes in.the said vessel. Cayenne, lot of October, 1620." At New-Orleans, Mr. L'Amoureaus
elaimed the vqssel as his own, and degifing to procure for her a new register as an American vessel,
he induced the master to execute a bill of sale to
him of the schooner, for the sum of 1000 dollars,
as agent of King, the former owner. The master, whose testimony is marked -by the most
studied'attempts at evasion, admits, that he had
no authority from King to execute this bill of tale,
that he never received any consideration for it,
and that he. gave it simply because, Mr. Desmoland had iven him the instructions above stated.
He concludesi and the conclusion seems irresistible, if Mr. L'Amoureaux ever obtained title to the
property, and-she is not now' the concealed property of Mr. Desmoland, that he purchased her
at Cayenne. Mr. L'Amoureaux now claims her
from the Court as his own property, and as no

Lumni.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

other origin is shown to his title, if he have any, it 12g.
must be referred to a purchase while at that port.
In what manner the purchase was made, and how L W1r.
the contract of sale was executed, are not disclosed. Yet the materiility of a full disclosure
cannot be denied. If Mr. Desmoland sold in the
name, and as agent of King, the bill of sale would
show it, and Mr. L'Amoureaux would possess it
among his muniments of title. If he sold as
owner, then he must have become so before the
schooner departed from Baltimore, and, of course,
the vessel was sailing, .uring the whole voyage,
under a register which she was not entitled to use,
and under circumstances which the law prohibited.
Why, then, has Mr. L'Amoureaux kept from the
eyes of the Court his title deeds? If they would
not prove the justice of the suspicions, which the
uncommon circumstances of the case necessarily
excite, it seems ihcredible that they should be
suppressed. The suppression, therefore, justifies
the Court in saying, that the United States have
made out a primafaciecase, and that the burthen of proof to rebut it, rests on the claimant.
But, it has been asked, what motive could Mr.
Desmoland, or Mr. L'Arnoureaux, have for this disguise? If no adequate motive could be assigned,
it would make it more difficult to account for the
extraordinary posturb of the case. But as human
motives are often inscrutable, the inadequacy of
any apparent cause ou'ght not to outweigh very
strong circumstantial evidence of a transfer. For
if the facts are such, that theycannot be accounted
for rationally, except upon the supposition of a

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

\

1828.

The
Luminary.

sale, there would be equal difficulties in rejecting
the inference of that fact. But Mr. Desmoland
may have had many motives to conceal the purchase. We do not know his national character,
or his private situation. He might have been embarrassrta.' His national character might have exposed him to capture, or detention, by ships of
war. He might have wished to reserve the benefit
of selling higher by selling abroad to an American
citizen, who could thus reinvest her with the American character. But if Mr. Desmoland were a
Frenchman, and meant to carry on a trade with
New-Orleans, and to preserve the apparent American ownership through the instrumentality of
Mr. L'Amoureaux, (and this is not an unnatural
presumption,) then he had an adequate motive
for the disguise. The act of the 15th of May,
1820, ch. 126. had imposed a very high tonnage
duty on French vessels entering the ports of the
United States; and as this act was meant as a
countervailing measure, to press heavily on French
shipping, it was an important object to 6vad& the
payment of thai duty by sailing under the American flag. Now, Mr. L'Amoureaux has-not shown
any title from Mr. Desmoland, and if he be the
confidential agent of the latter, the whole proceeding is just what we should expect with a view to
this object. The apparent residence of Mr. Desmoland at Cayenne, fortifies this presumption.
There would be no absurdity, though there would
b6 illigality, in such conduct. The parties cannot
complain, that the CoUrt, in a case left so bare of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

all reasonable explanation, construe their silence
into presumptive guilt.
Mr. Justice JoHNsoN dissented.

It is not pre-

tended, that the evidence in this case makes
out any specific offence against this vessel.
A number of circumstances .are collected inio
one view, which, as the Court do not understand, they consider as sanctioning an inferehce of
guilt, and making out a cause of forfeiture. After
giving to theie circumstances the utmost weight
that can be required, they can be made to amount
to no more than the groundwork of a .conclusion,
that the vessel had been sold to Desmoland at
Baltimore, or L'Amoureaux at Cayenne, and had
afterwards sailed under her original American register.
Argumenti gratia, I will concede either fact;
and yet I maintain that this vessel cannot be condemnd, either under the libel in its present form,
or under the facts thus assumed.
It will be observed, that there is no evidence
whatever in the record, relative to the national
character of these individuals. or, if any, it goes
to show'that L'Amoureaux was an American citizen. Now it is certain, that they must come
within the description of citizens or aliens. But
if citizens, the offence of owning a vessel, and not
changing her register, .is no cause of forfeiture;
the f4th section of this act expressly imposes a
pecuniary penalty for this offence. In order, then,
to maintain this forfeiture, it became indispensable
that these individuals, or at least one of them,

41-3
1823.
The
Luminary.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

should have been iade out in eVidence to be an
alien. No such fact is proved; and this alone is
The
Luminury. fatal to the purposes of this libel. Both facts,
that of being an alien, and that of using -the
American register, must concur, in order to mike
out the offence.
,2. But had the fact been established in evidence, that one of these. individuals was-an alien,
or even both of them, still, I maintairl,'that this
condemnation ought to be reversed.
This libel, it-will be observed, is preferred exSpressly under the provisions of the 27th section of
the registering act. By that section it is -enacted,
that "if any certificate of registry or tecord, shall
be fraudulently and knowingly used for any ship
or vessel, not then actually entitled to the benefit
taqeeot, according to the true intent and-meaning
of -his act, such. ship or vessel shall be forfeited
to the United States, with her tackle, apparel, and
(hrniture." The offence, as laid in the libel, is,
"thet at and after the departure of this vessel on
a Voyage, on which, on or before the 1st day of
August last, she sailed from the port of Baltimore
to Cayenne, and at and beforp her subsequent
arrival at New-Orleans, from Cayenne aforesaid.
which was, &c. a certain certificate of registry or
record thereof, made and delivered in pursuance
of an aict of Congress, entitled, an act, &c. to a
certain John C. King, of the city of Baltimore
aforesaid, mariner, as the owner thereof, Was
fraudulently or knowingly used for the said vessel,
hhe not then being, to wit, &ac. aefqa//y entitled

OF THE UNITED STATES.

415

to the benefit thereof, according-to the true intent 1823.
of the said act."
The
To the decree of forfeiture, founded upon this Laumnay.
libel, I entertain-two objections, either of whibh
is fatal. In the first place, the forfeiture made
out in evidence, is not one comprised within this
27th section. If Desmoland and L'Amoureaux
were American citizens, it has already been shown
that no forfeiture attaches; but whether they be
citizens or aliens, there exist in this act express
provisions, by distinct sections, that embrace their
cases. The 14th section relates to.the case of an
American citizen, and the 16th section to that of
an alien or foreigner who shall cover his interest
by an existing register, after a transfer of property
in the vessel.
I. cannot imagine upon what principle this libel
can be maintained under the provisions of the
27th section, when the evidence brings the vessel
directly within the 14th or 16th section, if it brings
her within the penalties of the law at all. If the
answer be, that although the case of this vessel
be. specifically legislated upon in distinct sections,
yet the 27th will cover -the same ground, and she
may be libelled under either; my answer is) that
tba conclusion of law is directly the reverse. I
ask no.other evidence to,show, that this case was
not intended to be comprised within the 27th section, than the fact, that in another section of the
ame act, the case is specifically provided for.
An sch is unquestionably the truth. The 27th section was not iniended to embrace the two offences,
specifically provided for in the 14th and 16th seec-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18t23.

uons. These two sections create two substantive
offences, one or the other, or both of which, has
Luminary. been committed in this case, or no offence has been
committed. Those .offences can arise only upon
the event of a sale by -the owner of a ship; but
the registers of vessels that have been condemned,
or captured, or wrecked, or' otherwise destroyed,
may be fraudulently used to cover other vessels of
corresponding built; and these, and various-other
unidentified offences, are those against which the
7th section was intended to operate.
And this leads me to my second objection to
sustaining the condemnation under the allegations
in this libel.
The allegations are too vague and general, and
I would as soon sustain an indictment for piracy
or murder, without any specific allegations, as a
libel in which the offence is not set forth with such
convenient certainty as to put the claimant on his
defence. It is true,- that the same technical niceties are not necessary in a libel, as the wary precision of the common law requires in indictments;
and the rule, as. usually laid down, is genierally
correct, viz. that the offence may be laid 'in, the
viords of the act.. But, it is obvious, that this rule
can only apply to those lafs which create a substantive offence, not those which generalize, and
create offences by classes. In the ctise before usi
the offence created by either the 14th or 16th section of this law, may well be laid in the words of
the law, each describes but one offence, and that
must invariably be. the same. Not so with the
especially after the present
27th section ; under it,

'r"mm

OF THE UNITED STATES.

417

decision, a variety of offences may be comprised, 1823.
distinguishable both into classes and individuals.
There cannot be a more striking illustration of Luminary.
these remarks, than that whiqh this case presents;
had the libel counted upon the 14th or 16th section, instead of the 27th, the claimant mightperhaps, have been prepared to meet those specific
charges, in a manner which wold have explained
those supposed ambiguities which have now proved
fatal to him.
These observations have been made under the
admission, that the evidence in the cause countenanced the conclusion, that a sale of this vessel
had taken place before she left Baltimore. If she
was not sold until she reached Griyenne, and was
then sold, deliverable in New-Orleans, there has
been no offence committed. And even if sold to
L'Amoureaux, an American citizen, it was rio cause
of forfeiture. And this, I think, the evidence fully
establishes.
There is one fact in the cause, which must put
down the id6a of her having been sold before she
left Baltimore. She took iii a cargo at that place,
and Desmoland was one of the shippers. Smith,
whose testimony I see no just ground for impeaching, expres.sly swears, that the freight of this outward voyage was paid at Bqltmore, to King, the
American owner. Why he should receive, and
Desmoland pay, the freight -of this voyage, after
she became the property of the latter, it is difficult
to discover. Nor is it less difi-cult to imagine
what purpose it would have answered for her to
retain her original character on avoyage to Cayenne,
VOL. VIIL

53

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

upon the supposition that she had become the
property of a Frenchman. Nothing but heavy
Luminuy. duties and alien disabilities could have resulted
from it. So far from having a motive to retain the
original American character, his interests would
have dictated exactly the reverse. Ifacontract of
sale did take place in Baltimore, the vessel deliverable in Cayenne, this was no offence against
the registering act; ihe American citizen was entiled to use the American character to facilitate
the sale, or enhance the price of his vessel, by a
contract to deliver her at a particular-port.
But, it has been argued, that by assuming the
fact of the sale to Desmoland at Baltimore, all the
evidence in the 6iuse may be explained with consistency.
I have alreadystated some facts, from which I infer directly the reverse; facts which appear to me
altogether inconsistent with the idea of a sale at
Baltimore. But let it be admitted, that such a
consequence would follow from this hypothesis,
and it is still necessary to go farther. No innocent solution of these supposed difficulties ought
to be practicable, before the inference of -guilt can
fasten upon this vessel. Yet, the most rational
and simple solution of every difficulty, will be
found in another hypothesis, 01together innocent
and probable., Let it be supposed, that Desmoland was the agent of King, for the sale of this
Vessel at Cayenne, and every fact in the case will
be fully reconciled with the idea of King's interest
having still remained in him. It was, of course,
that on a sale taking place at Cayenne, the eap-

OF THE UNITED STATES,

tain should deliver her up -tO Pesmoland's order.

419

182.

That she was then to put off her American charmeter, is proved by the instructions to Smith to Lumnhary.
bring back the rejister ; and ,as the 'captain and
his crew. would then be left to find their way home
from a distant country, they were, to receive two
months extra wages.
I see nothing in all this but consistency and
fi&anm. Every thing shows, that she was not to
continue trading under her American character;
and yet, the prosecution of §uch an intent, and of
such an intent alone, would have comported with
the f0Aud now imputed to her, to wit, that of evading
the newly imposed tonnage duty on French vessels.
With regard to the supposed transfer toL'Amoureaux,,at Cayenne, I consider- him as aeknoviledged inthe rec'rd to-be an American citizen;
and I have already shown, that an actual sale tW
him at Cayenne, would not subject the vessel to
forfeiture, for making..tie voyage to New-Orleans
under 'her original register. It was- impossible
that he could take out a new register at Cayenne;
and' the apprehension of incurring some penalty
or forfeiture, would naturally suggesi the measure, which Smith supposes was adopted, of purchasing under a stipulation to deliver the vessel
at New- Orleans. In the choice between guilt and
innocence, it is the construction which he has a
right to expect a Court of justice will give of his
conduct.
Nor can I perceive how any unfavourable inference can be drawn from the circumstance of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Smith's signing the bill of sale at New-Orleans.
It is obvious that King expected to sell the vessel
Tlhe-.
Luminary, in Cayenine, and to separate her thus from the
American marine. There was, therefore, no order
taken for effecting that formal transfer which was
necessary, under our laws, for the purpose of perpetuating her American character. I see no reason why we should not rather suppose these men
ignorant than fraudulent. They were imposing
upop no one ; and if the collector could be induced
to issue a new register, upon Smith's bill of sale,
it was all that L'Amoureaux stood in need of;
since King's. letter to Smith, and Desmoland's
order to deliver the vessel, were sufficient muniments of title, against all the rights of King.
I see nothing but fairness in the transaction; and
the necessities of .L'Amoureaux's business may
have well rendered it inconvenient to wait until
King could transmit a regular power of attorney
from Baltimore.
It is asked, why did not Desmoland and others
come forward with evidence to explain all these
transactions ? I confess it appears to Ine that the
record supplies the answer. They could not have
had a serious apprehension of the fate they have
met with. It is enough for them to prove themselves innocent, after evidence of fraud has been
produced against them.,. Thinking, as I clearly
do," that upon the evidence before the Court they
were entitled to a decree in their favour, I cannot
perceive that any further explanation of their conduct ought to have been required.
There was no sufficient allegation in the libel;
1823.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

421

no evidence of a sale to Desmoland; none of 182s.
his alien character, if there had been a sale to
Wormley
o.
'him; the sale to L'Amoureaux did not subject her
to forfeiture; and not a- fact had been made out Woriey.
in evidence, which was not even more reconcilable with a state of innocence than a state of guilt.
I confess I think it a hard case.
Decree affirmed, wltt costs.

[CHA.iCERY.
HUGH

WALLACE

RICHARD

TRUST.

JuaRscIo.]

WORMLEY,

VEITCH,

THOMIAS

DAVID

STRODE,

CASTLEMIAN,

and

CHARLES M'CoRMICK, A-ypellants,
V.

Wife of Hugh Wallae Wormley,
F.
STROTHER, her next friend, and
by GEORGE

MARY WORMLEY,

JOHN S. WORMLEY, MARY W.

WORMLEY, JANE

B.

WORMLEY, and ANNE B. WORMLEY, infant
children of the said Mary and Hugh Wallace, by
the said STROTHER, their next friend, Respondents.
A trustee cannot purchase, or acquire by exchange, the trust property.
Where the trustee in a marriage settlement has a power to sell, and
reinvest the trust property, whenever, in his opinion, the purchase
money may be laid out advantageously for the cesfui que trus18,
that opinion must be fairly and honestly exercised, and the sale Vil
be void where he appears to have been influenced by private and
.selfish interests, and the sale is for an inadequate price.
Quere, How far a bone fide purchaser, ithout notice of the breach

