699

OF THE UNITED STATES.

182S.
Gracle
V.

[PRACTICE.]

Palmer.

GRACIE and others, Plaintiffs in Error,
V.
PALMER

and others, Defendants in Error.

It is not necessary to aver on the record, that the defendant in the
Circuit Court was an inhabitant of the District, or was forind therein
at the time of serving the writ. Where the defendant appears,
without taking the exception, it is an admission of the regularity of
the service.

Mr. Webster moved to dismiss the writ of error .m',a

in this case, for want of jurisdiction. He stated,
that the plaintiffs below, Palmer and others, were
described to be aliens, and subjects of the king of
Great Britain, and the defendants, Gracie and
others, to be citizens of the State of New-York ;
and the suit was brought in the Circuit Court of
Pennsylvania. It did not appear, that the defendants were inhabitants of, or found in the District of Pennsylvania, at the time of serving the
writ; and he, therefore, contended, under the
11th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20.
that no civil suit could be brought against them
by original process in that District.
.Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL stated, that the
uniform construction, under the clause of the act
referred to, had been, that it was not necessary to
aver, on the record, that the defendant was an inhabitant of the District, or found therein. That

5a.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT, &c.

7

it was sufficient if the Court appeared to have
by the citizenship or alienage of the
jurisdiction
Grade.
V. "parties. The exemption from arrest in a District
Palmer. in which the defendant was not an inhabitant, or
in which he was not found at the time of serving
the process, was thb privilege of the defendant,
which he might waive by a voluntary appearance.
That if process was returned by the marshal as
served upon him within the District, it was sufficient; and that where the defendant voluntarily
appeared in the Court below, without taking the
exception, it was an admission of the service, and
a waiver of. any further inquiry into the matter.
1823.

Motion denied.

