OF T1HE UNITED STATES.

229
1823.
S"ton

[CH NCERY.

POST-NUPTIAL SETTLEmErT.]

SEXTON v. WHEATONq and Wife.
A post-nuptial voluntary settlement, made by a man, who is not
indebted at the time, upon his wife, is valid against subsequent
creditors.
The statute 13 Eliz. c. 5. avoids all conveyances not made on a consideration deemed valuable in law, as against previous creditors.
But it does not apply to subsequent creditors, if the conveyance is not
made with a fraudulent intent.
What circumstances will constitute evidence of such a fraudulent
intent.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia and county of Washington.
This was a bill brought by the appellant, Sexton, in the Court below, to subject a house and lot
inthe city of Washington, the legal title to which
was in the defendant, Sally Wheaton, to the payment of a debt for which the plaintiff had obtained
*ajudgment against her husband, Joseph Wheaton,
the other defendant.
The lot was conveyed by John P. Van Ness,
and Maria, his wife, and Clotworthy Stepenson,
to the defendant, Sally Wheaton, by deed, bearing
date the 21st day of March, 1807, for a valuable
consideration, acknowledged to be received from
the said Sally. And the plaintiff claimed to subject this property to the payment of his debt, upon
the ground, that the conveyance was fraudulent;
and, therefore, void as to creditors.
The circumstances on which the plaintiff relied,

Y.
Wheaton.

230

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

in his bill, to support the allegation of fraud, werer
~
that the said house and lot were purchased by the
Sexton
defendant, Joseph, who, contemplating at the time
V.

Wheaton.

carryihg on the business of a merchant in the said

city of Washington, procured the same to be conveyed to his wife; and obtained goods on the credit
of his apparent ownership of valuable real property.
That for the purpose of obtaining credit with the
commercial house of the plaintiff, in New-York,
he represented himself, in his letters, as a man possessing real estate to the value of 20,000 dollars,
comprehending the house in question, besides 100
bank shares, and other personal, estate. That
the defendant, Sally, knew, and permitted these
representations to be made. That the defendant,
Joseph, in the presence of the defendant, Sally,
applied to General Dayton, the friend of the plaintiff, to be recommended to a commercial house in
New-York, and in the statement of his property,
as an inducement to make such recommendation,
he included the premises. That the defendant,
Sally, permitted this misrepresentation, and did
not undeceive General Dayton, although she had
many opportunities of doing so.
In support of these allegations the plaintiff annexed to his bill several letters written by the defendant, Joseph, in the city of Washington, to the
plaintiff, in the city of New-York, soliciting a corn-.
mercial connexion, and advances of goods on
credit. The first of these leiters was dated the
2d of September, 1809. The letters stated, that
the plaintiff's house had .been recommended to
the defendant by their mutual friend General Day-

'F THE UNITED STATES.

ton; represented the defendant's fortune as con- 1823.
siderable, spoke of the house in which he was Sexton
to carty on business as his own, and held out the
v.
Wheatom
prospct of regular and ample remittances.
The bill farther stated, that, upon the faith of
these letters, and on the recommendation of General Dayton, the plaintiff advanced goods to the
defendant, Joseph, to a considerable amount, who
failed in making the promised remittances; and
on the ,plaintiff's withholding farther supplies of
goods, and pressing for payment, he avowed his
inability to pay, declared himself to be insolvent,
and then stated, that the nouse in controversy was
the property of his wife.
Some arrangements were made, by which the
goods in the store, and the books of the defendant, Joseph, were delivered to the plaintiff; but,
after paying some creditors who were.preferred, a
very small sum remained to be applied in discharge of a judgment which the plaintiff had bbtained in January, 1812, for the sum of 8,249 dollars and 29 cents. On this judgment an execution
was issued, by which the life estate of Joseph
Wheaton was taken and sold for 300 dollars, the
plaintiff being the purchaser.
The bill prayed, that the property, subject to the
plaintiff's interest therein under the said purchase,
might be sold, and the proceeds of the sale applied
to tho payment of his judgment. It farther stated,
that improvements to a great amount had been
made since the conveyance to Sally Wheaton, and
prayed, that, should the Court sustain the said

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. conveyance, the defendant, Sally, might be decreed
%sextod to account for the value of those improvements.
V.
The answers denied that the house and lot in conWheatoh. test were purchased in the first instance by Joseph
Wheaton, or conveyed to his wife with a view to
his entering into commerce; and averred, that they
were purchased for Sally Wheaton, and chiefly
paid for .out of the profits made by her industry,
and saved by her economy in the management of
the affairs of the family while her husband was
absent executing the duties of his office as serjeant at arms to the House of Representatives..
The answers, alsojstated, that in January, 1807,
when the conVeyance was made, Joseph Wheaton was serjeant at arms to the House of Representatives, expected to continue in that office, had
no intention of going into trade, and had no knowledge of the plaintiff. The design of going into
commerce was first formed in the year 1809,
when, being removed from his office, and having
no hope of being reinstated in it, he turned his
attention to that object as a means of supporting
his family. He, then, in a letter dated the 24th
of August, applied to General Dayton, as a friend,
to recommend him to a house in New-York, and
received from that gentleman a letter dated the
29th of the same month, which is annexed to the
answer. In this letter, General Daytgn says,
" pursuant to your request, I recommend to you
the house of Messrs. Sexton & Williamson, with
which to form the sort of connexion which you
propose in New-York.
They have sufficient
capital," &c. " The proper course will be for

OF THE UNITED STATES.

you to write very particularly to them,.stating your

23
1823.
7m
Sexton

present advantageous situation, your prospects
and plans of business, and describing the nature
V.
Wheton.
to
propose
you
which
connexion
the
of
and extent
form with them, ana then refer them to me for my
knowledge of your capacity, industry, probity,"
&c. &e. &c.
The defeidant, Joseph, in his answer, stated,
that in consequence of this letter, he wrote to the said house of Sexton & Williamson. He admitted, that his adcount of his property was too favourable, but denied having made the statement
ibr the purposes of fraud, but from having been
himself deceived respecting its value. He denied
having ever told General Dayton that the house
was his, and thinks he declared it to be the property of his wife. Sally Wheaton denied that
she ever heard her husband tell General Dayton,
that the house was his property; that she ever in
any manner contributed to impose on others the
opinion that her husband was more Qpulent than
he really was; or ever admitted, that the house
she claims was his. She admitted, that she saw a
letter prepared by him to be sent to Sexton &
Williamson, in the autumn of 1809, which she
thought made too flattering a representation of his
property, and which she, therefore, dissuaded him
from sending in its then form. She then hoped
that her persuasions had been successftil.
The answers of both defendants stated, that
Joseph Wheaton was free from debt when the
conveyance was made, and insisted, that it was
made bona fide.
so
Vo. VIII.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
Sexton

The Court below dismissed the bill, and from
this decree the plaintiff appealed to this Court.

V.

Wheaton.

Feb. 5th.

Mr. Key, for the appellants, argued, 1. That
the evidence in the cause was insufficient to prove
the fact alleged, that the house in question was
purchased with the funds of the wife. The case
of Slanning v. Style,n which is the stronger, as it
excepts creditors from the operation of the right
where it exists, goes to show, that it was not
bought with funds which could be considered as
hers. The fund accruing from the thrift and
economy of the wife, does not constitute her separate estate.' Still less could such an accumulation
for her separate use, from the presents of her
friends, or as a compensation for services rendered
her husband, be warranted by any case or principle.
2. If, then, the purchase was not made with the
separate property of the wife, were the circumstances of the husband such, at the time this settlement was made, as to justify him in making it,
to the prejudice of subsequent creditors ? All the
cases concur in showing that he cannot do so, and
that the subsequent creditors may impeach it.0
And it makes no difference that it is the case of
a settlement by a purchase, and the deed taken
a 3 P. Wms. 335-337.
b 1 Cas. in Ch. 117.
c Fletcher v. Sidley, 2 Vern. 490. Taylor v. Jones, 2 Ak.
600. Fitzer v. Fitzer, 2 4tk. 50. Stillman v. Ashdown, 2 Alk.
481. Hungerford v. Earle, 2 Vern. 261. Rob';rts on Fraud.
Convey. 21-30. 4therly's Faro. Setem. 212. 230-236.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

235

to the wife. This notion of certain elementary 1823.
writers6 has been exploded,it~b
and the authorities Sexton
are decisive against it.6 Nor is there any differV.
ence between a deed to defraud subsequent cre- Wheaton.
ditors, and one to defraud purchasers.c And a
subsequent sale, after a voluntary settlement, creates the presumption of fraudulent intent in the
previous settlement under the statute 27 Eliz.d If
so, there is the same ground for similar presumption, where debts are contracted after a previous
voluntary settlement. This must especially apply
where the settlement is of all the settler's property, and the debts are large, and contracted
almost immediately after the settlement.
3. But, supposing the settlement was fairly
made, here is evidence of collusion of the wife in
the misrepresentation which was made to the prejudice of creditors, and she is bound by it. The
principle is well established, that the property of
a married woman, or that of an infant, may be
rendered liable to creditors by their concurrence
in acts of fraud.c
Mr. Jones, for the respondents, contra, insisted,
that many of the cases cited on the other side,
a Fonbl. 275.

Sugd. 424. Roberts, 463.

1 Peacock v. Monk, 1 Yes. 127. Stillman v. Asbdown, 2 ALk.
481. 2 Vern. 68.
4 Munf. 251. Partridge v. Goss, Ambf.

596. Athzerly'4 FAMn Settlem. 481.
c Anderson v. Roberts, 18 Johns. Rep. 51.5.
d Roberts on Fraud.Convey. 34.
e Roberts, 522. Sugd. 480. Fonbi 161. 1 Bro. Ch. 358.
2 E. Cas. Abr. 488.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

might be disposed of upon their peculiar circumwithout touching upon the general doeV. trine for which he contended. He admitted, that
'Wheaton. whether a settlement was within the letter of the
statutes relating to fraudulent conveyances or not,
if there was actual fraud, a Court of equity would
lay hold upon it, and redress the injured party.
But the settler must be indebted at the time of the
execution of the deed in order to set it aside on
that ground. And there must be an allegation,
and proof of that fact, or the bill will be dismissed.a According to the original rudeness of the
feudal system, the husband and wife were considered as one person, and all her rights of property were merged in his. But this is a doctrine
wholly unknown to the civilized countries governed
by the Roman code ; and Courts of equity have
constantly struggled to mitigate its rigour. For
this purpose, they consider the husband as a trustee
for the wife, in order to preserve her property to
her separate use. It does not follow, that because
voluntary settlements are void against subsequent
purchasers,that they are, therefore, void against
subsequept creditors. There is a well established
and well known distinction in this respect between
the statute 13 Eliz. and the statute 27 Eliz. Taking the present case, then, as a mere voluntary
conveyance on good consideration, independent
of actual fraud, it must stand. Whatever discrepancy there may be in some of the old cases, this
Ig23.

Sexton Sstances,

a Lush v. Wilkiuson, 3 Ves. 384.

Swunst. Rep. 106.

Battersbee v. Farrington,

Stevens v. Olive, 1 Bro. Ch. Cas. 90.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

237

is now the settled doctrine in England. Thus, in 1823.
the case of a voluntary bond, and arrears under Sexton
v.
it, a conveyance to secure those arrears was sustamined against creditors.a So, also, the substitu- Wheaton.
tion of a voluntarybond by another is good.' And
a post-nuptial settlement is only void as against
creditors at the time.c

A voluntary conveyance

in favour of strangers is valid against subsequent
creditors, the party making it not being indebted
at the time.' And in a very recent case, a voluntary settlement by a husband, not indebted
at the time, was established against subsequent
creditors.' But this is not a mere voluntary conveyance on a moral obligation; it is for a valuable
consideration in the wife's serviceef, The case
cited from I Cas.in Ch. 117. has no bearing on the
present question, and has -been overruled since.
Besides, the case of Slanqing v. Styler is better
vouched, more modern, and of greater authority
in every respect. The pretext of collusion in
actual fraud between the husband and wife, in the
present case, is utterly devoid of any foundation
in the evidence.
a Gillam v. Locke, 9 Ves. 612.
6 Exparte Barry, 19 Ves. 218.
c Wiffiams v. Kidney, 12 Ves. 136.
d Holloway v. Millard, I ,Madd.Rep. 414. Hobbs v. Hull,
1 Cox, 445. Jones v. Bolter, id. 288.
e Battersebee v. Farrington, I Swanst. Rep. 106. Seej also,
Jones v. Bolter, 1 Cox, 288.

f 3 P. Wms. 337.
g 3 P. WIns. 337.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opiof the Court, and, after stating the case, proSexton
V. ceeded as follows:
Wheato,.
The allegation, that the house in question was
Fe. IV.
purchased with a view to engaging in mercantile
speculations, and conveyed to the wife for the
purpose of protecting it from the debts which
might be contracted in trade, being positively denied, and neither proved by testimony, nor circumstances, may be put out of the case.
The allegation, that the defendant, Sally, aided
in practising a fraud on the plaintiff, or in creating
or giving countenance to the opinion, that the defendant, Joseph, was more wealthy than in truth
he was, is also expressly denied, nor is there any
evidence in support of it, other than the admission
in her answer, that she had seen a letter written
by him to the plaintiff, in the autumn of 1809, in
wbich he gave, she thought, too flattering a picture
of his circumstances. This admission is, however, to be taken with the accompanying explanation, in which she says, that she had dissuaded
him, she had hoped successfully, from sending the
letter in its then form.
This fact does not, we think, fix upon the wife
such a fraud as ought to impair her rights, whatever they may be.
The plaintiff could not know that this letter was
seen by the wife, or in any manner sanctioned by,
or known to her. He had, therefore, no right to
suppose, *thatthere was any waiver of her interest,
whatever it might be, nor had he a right to assume
any thing against her, or her claims, in conse182s.

Snion

OF THE UNITED STATES.

!39

quence of his receiving this letter. The case is very 1823.
different fr6m one. in which the wife herself makes Sexton
a misrepresentation, or hears and countenances
V.
Wheaton.
perThe
husband.
her
of
the misrepresentation
son who acts under such a misrepresentation, acts
under his confidence in the good faith of the wife
herself. He has a right to consider that faith as
pledged; and if he is deceived, he may complain
that she has herself deceived him. But, in this
case, the plaintiff acted solely on his confidence
in the husband. If be was deceived, the wife
was not accessary to the deception. She contributed nothing towards it. When she saw and
disapproved the letter written by her husband,
what more could be required from her than to dissuade him from sending it in that form? Believrng, as we are bound to suppose she did, that the
l.tter would be altered, what was it incumbent on
her to do? All know and feel, the plaintiff as
well as others, the sacredness of the connexion
between hdsband and wife. All know, that the
sweetness of social intercourse, the harmony of
society, the happiness of families, depend on that
mutual partiality whi'-h they feel, or that delicate
forbearance which they manifest towards each
other. Will any man say, that lmrs. Wheaton,
seeing this ietter, remonstrating against it, and
believing that it would be altered before sending
it, ought to have written to this stranger in NewYork, to inform him, that her husband had misrepresented his circumstances, and that credit
ought not to be given to his letters ? No man
will say so. Confiding, as it was natural and

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

amiable in her to confide, in his integrity, and believing that he had imposed on himself, and meant
Sexton
V. no imposition on another, it was natural for her
Whaton. to suppose, that his conduct would be influenced
by her representations, and that his letter would
be so modified as to give a less sanguine description of his circumstances. We cannot condemn
her conduct.
A-wife who is herself the instrument of deception, or who contributes to its success by countenancing it, may, with justice, be charged with the
consequences of her conduct. But this is not
such a case; and we consider the rights of Mrs.
Wheaton as unimpaired by any thing she is
shown to have done.
Had the plaintiff heard this whole conversation,
as stated in the answer; had he heard her express
her disapprobation of the statements made in the
letter, and dissuade her husband from sending it
without changing its language ; had he seen them
separate, with a belief on her part, that the proper alterations would be made in it, he would have
felt the injustice of charging her with participating
in a fraud. That act cannot be criminal in a
wife, because it was-not communicated, which, if
communicated, would be innocent. Admitting the
representations of this letter to be untrue, they
cannot be charged on the wife, since she disapproved of them, and believed that it would not
be sent in its exceptibnable form.
So much is a wife supposed to be under the
control of her husband, that the law in this District willnot permit her estate to pass by a conveyance executed by herself, until she has been

'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

examined apart from her husband by persons in 1823.
whom the law confides, and has declared to them, Sexton
that she has executed the deed freely, and without
V.
wilton.
inconsistency,
strange
a
be
would
It
constralilt.
if a Court of Chancery were to decree, that the
mere knowledge of a letter containing a misrepresentation respecting her property, should produce a forfeiture of it, although she had not concurred in its statements, had dissuaded her husband from sending it, and believed he had not
sent it.

Without discussing the conduct of Mr. Wheaton in this transaction, it is sufficient to say, that it
cannot affect the estate previously vested in his
wife. The cause, therefore, must depend on the
fairness and legality of the conveyance to her.
The allegation, that the purchase money was
derived from her private individual funds, is supported by circumstances which may disclose fair
motives for the conveyance, but which are not sufficient to prove, that the consideration, in point of
law, moved from her. It must, therefore, be considered as a voluntary conveyance ; and, if sustained, must be sustained on the principle, that it
was made under circumstances which do not impeach its validity when so considered.
The bill does not charge Mr. Wheaton with
having been indebted in January, 1807, when this
conveyance was made. The fact, that he was indebted, cannot be assumed. Indeed, there is no
ground in the record for ass!4ming it. The answers aver, that he was not indebted, and they
are not contradicted by any testimony in the cause.
VOL. VIIL

31

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

His inability to pay his debts in 1811, or 1812, is
no proof of his having been in the same situation
Sexton
in January, 1807. The debts with which he was
V.
Wheaton. then overwhelmed, were contracted after that date.
This conveyance, therefore, must be considered
as a voluntary settlement made on his wife, by a
man who was not indebted at the time. Can it
be sustained against subsequent creditors ?
It would seem Eo be a consequence of that 4bsolute power which a man possesses over his own
property, that he may make any disposition of it
which does not interfere with the existing rights
of others, and such disposition, if it be fair and
real, will be valid. The limitations on this power
are those only which are prescribed by law.
The stat. 13
The law which is considered by the plaintiff's
Ell. c. 5. avoids all con- counsel as limiting this power in the case at bar,
3Ei.c.5
not is the statute o
veyancesvaluaof 13 Eliz. ch. 5. against fraudulent
deemed
ble in law, as
against pre- conveyances, which is understood to be in force in
ribut the county of Washington. That statute enacts,
against
s' be- that " for the avoiding and abolishing of feigned,
quena creditors,
unless rovenous, and fraudulent feoffments," &c. "which
made with a
fraudulent in- feoffments," &c. " are devised and contrived of
tent,.
malice, fraud, covin, collusion, or guile, to the end,
1823.

purpose, and intent, to delay, hinder, or defraud creditors, and others, of their just 'nd lawful actions,"
&c. " not only to the let or hindrance of the due
course and execution of law and justice, but also
to the overthrow of all plain dealing, bargaining, and chevisance between man and man.
Be it, therefore, declared," &c. " that all and
every feoffment," &c. " made to, or for, any intent
or purpose before declared and expressed, shall be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

from henceforth deemed and taken (only as against
that person," &c. "whose actions," &c." shall or
might be in any wise disturbed," &c.) " to be
clearly and utterly void."

In construing this statute, the Courts have considered every conveyance, not made on consideration deemed valuable in law, as void against
previous creditors. With respect to subsequent
creditors, the application of this statute appears
to have admitted of some doubt.
In the case of Shaw v. Standish,(2 Vern. 326.)
which was decided in 1695, it is said by counsel, in
argument, " that there was a difference between
purchasers and creditors, for the statute of 13 Eliz.
makes not every voluntary conveyance, but only
fradulent conveyances, void as against creditors;
so that, as to creditors, it is not sufficient to say the
conveyance was voluntary, but must show they
were creditors at the time of the conveyance made,
or, by some other circumstances, make it appear,
that the conveyance was made with intent to deceive or defraud a creditor."
Although this distinction was taken in the case
of a 8ubsequent purchaser, and was, therefore, not
essential in the cause which was before the Court,
and is advanced only by counsel in argument, yet
it shows that the opinion, that a voluntary conveyance was pot absolutely void as to subsequent
creditors, prevailed extensively.
In the case of Taylor v. Jones,(2 Atk. 600.) a bill
was brought by creditors to be paid their debts out
of stock vested by the husband, in trustees, for the
benefit of himself for life, of his wife for life, and,
afterwards, for the benefit of children. Lord

243
1823.
Sexton

v.
Wheto--

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. Hardwicke decreed the deed of trust to be void
,Sexton against subsequent as well as preceding creditors.
v.
There are circumstances in this case which apWheaton. pear to have influenced the Chancellor, and to
diminish its bearing, on the naked question of a
voluntary deed being absolutely void, merely because it is voluntary.
Lord Hardwicke said, " now, in the present
case, here is a trust left to the husband in the
first place, under this deed; and his continuing in
possession is fraudulent as to the creditors, the
plaintiffs."
His Lordship, afterwards, says, " and it is very
probable, that the creditors, after the settlement,
trusted Edward Jones, the debtor, upon the supposition that he was the owner of this stock, upon
seeing him in possession."
This case, undoubtedly, if standing alone, would
go far in showing the opinion of Lord Hardwicke
to have been, that a voluntary conveyance would
be void against subsequent, as well as preceding
creditors ; but the circumstances) that the settler
was indebted at the time, and remained in possession of the property as its apparent owner, were
certainly material; and, although they do not appear to have decided the cause, leave some doubt
how far this opinion should apply to cases not
attended by those circumstances,
This doubt is strengthened by observing Lord
Hardwicke's language, in the case of Russell v.
Hammond. His Lordship said, "though he had
hardly known one case, where the person conveying was indebted at the time of the conveyance,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

24&

that the conveyance had not been. fraudulent, yet. 182a.
that, to be sure, there were cases of voluntary set- Sextoatlements that were not fraudulent, and those were,
V.
W41ea'an,
indebted
not
were
them
where the persons making
at the time, in which case, subsequent debts would
not shake such settlements.".
It. would seem, from the opinion expressed in
this case, that Taylor v. Jones must have been
decided on its circumstances.
The cases of Stillman v. Askdown, and of Fitze,
v. Fitzerand,Stephens, reportedin2 Atk. have been
much relied on by the appellant; but neither is
thought to establish the principle for which he
contends; In Stillman v. Ashdown, the father
had purchased an estate, which was conveyed
jointly to himself and his son, and of which he
remained in possession. After the death of the
father, the son entered on the estate, and the bill
was brought to subject it to the payment of a judgment against the father, in his lifetime. The
Chancellor directed the-estate to be sold, and e
moiety to be paid to the creditor, "and the residue
to the son.
In giving his opinion, the Chancellor put the
case expressly on the ground, that this, from its
circumstances, was not to be considered. as an ad.vancement. to the son.

He says, too, ." a father,

here, was in possession of the whole estate, and
must,, necessarily, appear to be the visible owner
of it; and the creditor too would have had a right,
by virtue of an elegit, to have laid hold of a moiety,
so that it: differs extremely from all the other
cases."3

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

In the same case, the Chancellor lays down the
rule
which he supposed to govern in the case of
Sexton
V.
voluntary settlements. " It is not necessary," he
Wheaton. says, "that a man should be actually indebted at
1823.

the time of a voluntary settlement to make it
fraudulent; for, if a man does it with a view to his
being indebted at a future time, it is equally fraudulent, and ought to be set aside."
The real principle, then, of this case is, that a
voluntary conveyance to a wife or child, made by
a person not indebted at the time, is valid; unless
it were made with a view to being indebted at a
future time.
In the case of Fitzer v. Fitzer and Stephens,

the deed was set aside, because it was made for
the benefit of the husband, and the principal point
discussed was the consideration. The Lord Chancellor said, " it is certain, that every conveyance
of the husband that is voluntary, and for his own
benefit, is fraudulent against creditors." After
stating the operation of the deed, he added, "then
consider it as an assignment which the husband
himself may make use of to fence against creditors, and, consequently, it is fraudulent."
This case, then, does not decide, that a conveyance to a wife or child, is fraudulent against subsequent creditors because it is voluntary, but
because it is made for the benefit of the settler,
or with a view to the contracting of future debts.
The case of Peacock v. Monk, in I Vesey,
turned on two points. The first was, that there
was a proviso to the deed which amounted to a
power of revocation, which, the Chancellor said,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

247

had always been considered as a mark of fraud;

1823.

and, 2. That, being executed on the same day

Sexton

with his will, it was to be considered as a testamentary act.

In the case of Walker v. Burrows, (I Aik. 94.)
Lord Hardwicke, adverting to the stat. 13 Eliz.,
said, that it was necessary to prove, that the person conveying was indebted at the time of making
the settlement, or immediately afterwards, in
order to avoid the deed.
Lord Hardwicke maintained the same opinion
in the case of Townshend v. Windham, reported
in 2 -Vesey. In that case, he said, " if there is a
voluntary conveyance of real estate, or chattel
interest, by one not indebted at th6 time, though
he afterwards become indebted, if that voluntary
conveyance was for a child, and no particular evidence or badge of fraud to deceive or defraud subsequent creditors, that will be good ; but if any.
mark of fraud, collusion, or intent to deceive subsequent creditors, appears, that will make it void;
otherwise not, but it will stand, though afterwards
he becomes indebted."
* A review of all the decisions of Lord Hardwicke, will show his opinion to have been, that a
voluntary conveyance to a child by a man not indebted at the time, if a real and bonafide conveyance, not made with a fraudulent intent, is good
against subsequent creditors.
The decisions made since the time of Lord
Hardwicke maintain the same principle.
In Stepkens v. Olive, (2 Bro. Ch. Rep. 90.)
Edward Olive, by deed, dated the 7th of May,

v,
Whetn.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823. 1774, settled his real estate on himself for life,
'--"-'Sexon

V.

remainder to his wife for life, with remainders over

for the benefit of his children.

By another deed,

Whemton. of the same date, he mortgaged the same estate to

Philip Mighil, to secuke the repayment of 500
pounds, with interest. On the 6th of March,
1775, he became indebted to George Stephens.
This suit was brought by the executors of .keorge
Stephens to set aside the conveyance, because it
was voluntary and fraudulent as to creditors. The
Master of the Rolls held, "that a settlement after
marriage, in favour of the wife and children, by a
person not indebted at the time, was good against
subsequent creditors;"" and that, although the settler was indebted, yet, if the debt was secured by
mortgage, the settlement was good."
-In the case of Lush v. Williamson, the husband conveyed leasehold estate in trust, to pay,
after his decease, an annuity to his wil-e for life,
and after -her decease, the premises charged with
the annuity for himself and his executors. A bill
was brought by subsequent creditors to set aside
this conveyance. The Master of the Rolls sustained the conveyance, and, after expressing his
doubts of the right of the plaintiff to come into
Court without proving some antecedent debt, said,
"a single debt will not do. Every man must be
indebted for the common bills for his house,
though he pays them every week. It must depend
upon this, Whether he was in insolvent circumstances at the time."
In the case of Glaister v. Hewer, (8 Fes. 199.)
where the husband, who was a trader, purchased

OF THE UNITED STATES.

249

lands, and took a conveyance to himself and wife, 1823.
and afterwards became bankrupt and died, a suit
,.
was brought by the widow, against the assignees,
Wbex
arose:
questions
Two
to establish her interest.
1. Whether the estate passed to the assignbes
under the statute of 1 James I. ch. 15. ; and, if not,
2. Whether the conveyance to the wife was void
as to creditors.
. The Master of the Rolls decided both points
in favour of the widow. Observing on the statute of the 13th of Eliz., he said, that the conveyance would be good, supposing it to be perfectly
voluntary; " for," he added, " though it is proved
that the husband was a trader at the time of thd
settlement, there is no evidence that he was indebted at that time; and it is quite settled, that,
under that statute, the party must be indebted at
the time."
On an appeal to the Lord Chancellor, this decree was reversed, because he was of opinion,
that the conveyance was within the statute of
James, though not within that of Elizabeth.
In the case of Battersbee v. Farrigtonand
others, (1 Swanst. 106.) where a bill was brought
to establish a voluntary settlement in favour of a
wife and children, the Master of the Rolls
said, "no doubt can be entertained on this case,
if the settler was not indebted at the date of the
deed. A voluntary conveyance by a person not
indebted, is clearly good against future creditors.
That constitutes the distinction between the two
statutes. Fraud vitiates the transaction; but a setYcI. VIIL

32

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

1823. tlement not fraudulent, by a party not indebted, is
valid, though voluntary."
sextou
V.
From these cases it appears, that the construcwvb
tion of this statute is completely settled in England. We believe, that the same construction
has been maintained in the United States. A
voluntary settlement in favour of a wife and
children, is not to be impeached by subsequent
creditors, on the ground of its being voluntary.
Circumstances
We are to inquire, then, whether there are any
in
this case
not sumcent badges of fraud attending this transaction which
\

*.

So vitiate the

settlement
as
being fraudu.
lent.

Vitiate it.

What are those badges?
The appellant contends, that the house and lot
contained in this deed, constituted the bulk of Joseph Wheaton's estate, and that the conveyance
ought, on that account, to be deemed fraudulent.
This fact is not clearly proved. We do not
know the amount of his estate in 1807; but if it
.were proved, it does not follow that the conveyance
must be fraudulent. If a man entirely unencumbered, has a right to make a voluntary settlement of
a part of his estate, it is difficult to say how much
bf it he may settle. In the case of Stephens v.
Olive, the whole real estate appears to have been
settled, subject to a mortgage for a debt of 500
pounds ; yet, that settlement was sustained. The
proportional magnitude of the estate conveyed
may awaken suspicion, and strengthen other circumstances; but, taken alone, it cannot be considered as proof of fraud. A man who makes such
a conveyance, necessarily impairs his credit, and,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

if openly done, warns those with whom he deals
not to trust him too far; but this is not fraud.
Another circumstance on which the appellant
relies, is the short period which intervened between the execution of thi conveyance and the
failure of Joseph Wheaton.
We admit, that these two circumstances ought
to be taken into view together; but" do not think
that, as this case stands, they establish a fraud.
There is no allegation in the bill, nor is there
any reason to believe, that any of the debts which
pressed upon Wheaton at the time of his failure,
were contracted before he entered into commerce
in 1809, which was more than two years after the
execution of the deed. It appears that, at the
date of its execution, he had no view to trade.
Although his failure was not very remote from the
date of the deed, yet the debts and the deed can
in no manner be connected with each other; they
are as distinct as if they had been a century apart.
In tie case of Stephens v. Olive, the debt was
contracted in less than twelve months after the
settlement was made : vet it could not overreach
the settlement.
These circumstances, theni, both occurred in
the case of Stephens v. Olive, and were not considered as affecting the va dity of that deed The
reasons why shey should not be considered in this
case as indicating fraud, are stronger than in
England. In this District, every deed must be
recorded in a place prescribed by law. All titles
to land are placed upon the record. The person
who trusts another on the faith of his real pro-

1823S
v.

.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

*1823. perty, knows where he may apply to ascertain the
Sexton "nature of the title held by the person to whom he
is about to give credit. In this case, the title
v.
Wheaton. never was in Joseph Wheaton. His creditors,
therefore, never had a right to trust him on the
faith of this house and lot.
A circumstance much relied on by the appellant, is the controversy which appears to have subsisted about that time between the post office department and Wheaton. This circumstance may
have had some influence on the transaction ; but
the Court is not authorized to say that it had.
The claim of the- p9st office department was not
a debt. On its adjustment, Wheaton was.prove'd
to be the creditor instead of debtor.
It would be going too far to say, that this conveyance was fraudulent to avoid a claim made by a
person who was, in truth, the debtor, where there
is nothing on which to found the suspicion, but the
single fact that such a claim was understobd to
exist.
The claim for the improvements stands on the
same footing with that for the lot. They appear
to have been inconsiderable, and to have been
made before these debts were contracted.
Decree affirmed."
a Mr. Atherley, in his able treatise on the Lazo of Marriage
and other Family Settlements, controverts, on principle, the doctrine, that a voluntary settlement is good against subsequent cieditors, if the settler was not indebted at the time he made it, although
he admits, that it is the law in England, as established by the decisions of the Courts of equity. pp. 230-237. 175, 17'6. 209-220.
See also Reade v. Livingston, 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 481.

