OF THE UNITED STATES.

manded to the Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana, with directions to allow the

further prolibel to be amended, and to take such

ceedings in the said cause, as law and justice may
require.

[INSTA-NCE COURT.

The

SARAH.

JURISDICTION.)

HAZARD,

Claimant.

In cases of seizures made on land under the revenue laws, the District Court proceeds as a Court of common law, according to the
course of the Exchequer on informations in rem, and the trial of
issues offact is to be by jury ; but in cases of seizures on watersnavigablefrom the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burthen, it proceeds
as an Instance Court of Admiralty, by libel, and the trial is to be by
the Court.
A libel charging the seizure to have been made on water, when in fact
it was made on land,will not support a verdict, and judgment or ,entence thereon ; but must be amended or dismissed. The two jurisdictions, and the proceedings under them, are to be kept entirely
distinct.

APPEAL from the District Court of Louisiana.
This was a libel of information in the Court below, -against 422 casks of wine, imported in the
brig. Sarah, and afterwards seized at New-Orleans,
alleging a forfeiture to the United States by a false
entry in the office of the collector of the port of
New-York, made for the benefit of drawback, on
re-exportation, and stating, that the seizure was
made on waters navigable from the sea by vessels

1823.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

-

of ten- or more tons burthen. In the progress of
the cause, it appeared, that the seizure was in fact
Sarah. made on land; which fact was suggested to the

1823.

7he

Court by the claimant's proctor, who moved, that
the cause should be tried by a jury. The Court,
accordingly, directed a jury, which was sworn,
and found a verdict for the United States. On
this verdict, a sentence of condemnation was pronouneed by the Court; and the cause was broughi
to this Court by appeal on the part of the claimant.
Orarch 18.

Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the appellant, argued,
that the decree must be reversed, on acccnt of
the multiplied irregularities in the proceedings.
It was, in the wordsof the Judiciary Act of 1789,
c. 20. s. 9. "a -,ivil caue of Admiralty and maritime jurisdictibn," according to the allegation of
the libel, which stated the seizure to be on water.
But it afterwards assumed the shape of an Exchequer cause, and the trial was by jury, upon which
the Court rendered, not a judgment, but a sentence of condemnation. The District Court is
both a Court of Admiralty, and a Court of common law. In the former branch of its jurisdiction, it proceeds as an Instance Court, by a libel
in rem, which is to be tried by the Court ;" in the

latter, it proceeds, in revenue causes, by an information in rem, which is to be tried by the" jury.
a The Vengeance, 3 Dag. Rep. 297. The Sally of Norfolk,
2 Cranck'sRep. 406. The Betsey, 4 Cranch'sRep. 443. Wnhelan v. United States, 7'Cranc's Rep. 112. The Samuel, 1 W 7eat.

?e.9.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The two jurisdictions, and the proceedings under
each, are to be kept entirely distinct. One conseapparent.
quence of blending them together is
Where the seizure is on water, the claimant has a
right to further proof in this Court, under certain
circumstances; which he will be entirely deprived
of, if the proceedings are to be according to the
course of the common law, as the facts could not
be reviewed by writ of error.
The Attorney General, contra, insisted, that a
libel and an information were convertible terms.
This was a libel of information, on which, as the
seizure was on land, the party had a right to a
trial by jury. That right was secured by the constitution, in all cases at common law, where the
value in controversy exceeds twenty dollars; *and
in such cases, the facts tried by a jury cannot be
re-examined, otherwise than according to the
course of the common law.a Here an attempt is
made to re-examine them by an appeal, and the
cause may be dismissed from this Court on that
ground. Supposing the proceeding, however, to
have been according to the course of the civil law,
there is nothing to prevent the Instance Court of
Admiralty from trying facts by a jury, in the same
manner as the Court of Chancery directs an issue.
The judices selecti, of ancient Rome, were a sort
of jury, who acted under the superintendance of
the praetor, as his assessors in the determination of
questions of fact.
a 4mrmendnmds,. grt. 7.
V6Li V-III.

50

1823.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
The Sarab.
Mfarch 4t.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the
opinion of the Court, and, after stating the case,
proceeded as follows:
By the act constituting the judicial system of the
United States, the District Courts are Courts both
of common law and admiralty jurisdiction. In the
trial of all cases of seizure, on land, the Court
sits as a Court of common law. In cases of
seizure made on waters navigable by vessels of
ten tons burthen and upwards, the Court sits as
a Court of Admiralty. In all cases at common
law, the trial must be by jury. In cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, it has been settled,
in the cases of the Vengeance, (reported in 3 Dallas' Rep. 297.) the Sally, (in 2 Cranch's Rep.
406.) and the Betsy and Charlotte,(in 4 Cranch's
Rji.443.) that the trial is to be by the Court.
Although the two jurisdictions are vested in the
same tribunal, they are as distinct from each other
as if they were vested in different tribunals, and
can no more be blended, than a Court of Chancery
with a Court of common law.
The Court for the Louisiana District, was sitting
as a Court of Admiralty; and when it was shown
that the seizure was made on land,. its jurisdiction
ceased. The libel ought to have been dismissed,
or amended, by charging that the seizure was
made on land.
The direction of a jury, in a case where the libel
charged a seizure on water, was irregular; and any
proceeding of the Court, as a Court of Admiralty,
after the fact that the seizure was made on land

OF THE UNITED STATES.

M2.
appeared, would have been a proceeding without
jurisdiction.
The Court felt some disposition to consider this The Sarah.
empannelling of a jury, at the instance of the
claimants, as amounting to a consent that the libel
should stand amended; but, on reflection, that
idea was rejected.
If this is considered as a case at common law,
it would be necessary to dismiss this appeal, because the judgment could not be brought before
this Court but by writ of error. If it be coltsidered as a case of admiralty jurisdiction, the
sentence ought to be reversed, because it could
not be pronounced by a Court of Admiralty, on a
seizure made on land.
As the libel charges a seizure on water, it is
thought most advisable to reverse all the proceedings to the libel, and to remand the cause to the
District Court, for farther proceedings, with directions to permit the libel to be amended.
DECREE.

This cause came on to be heard on

the transcript of the record of the District Court
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is DECREED and ORDERED,
that the sentence of the District Court for the
District of Louisiana, condemning the said 422
casks of wine as forfeited to the United States,
be, and the same hereby is reversed and annulled.
And it is further DECREED and ORDERED, that the
cause be remanded to the said District Court of
Louisiana, with directions to allow the libel in this
case to be amended. and to take such farther pro-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
The Sarah.

ceejdings in the said cause as law and justice may
require.0
a It is stated in the Life of Sir Leoline Jenkins, vol. 1. p.
lxxxvii. that the Admiralty in England had an original inherent
jurisdiction of seizures for a breach of the navigation laws. See
also his charge at the Admiralty Sessions for the cinque ports. (Id.
p. xcv. et seg.) Charge at the Old Bailey Sessions. Again, Sir
L. Jenkins says : " Nor is there any thing granted to the Lord
Admiral in this commission, but what he was possessed of long
before those commissions grounded upon the statute of piracy
were known; for, by the inquisition taken at Queenborough, 49
Edw. III. and by the statutes of the Black Book in the Admiralty,
much ancienter than that inquisition, the transporting of prohi.
bitedgoods particularly,and so of other offences, was to be inquired of, and tried before the Lord Admiral; and in the articles
usually given in charge at the Admiralty Sessions of England, to
this day, the inquiry after transporters of prohibited goods is given
in charge to the jury," &c. (Id. vol. 2. p. 746.) So, also, he
says, in a letter to Sir Thomas Exton, July 2, 1675, " the course
would be the same in every other case; for instance, in carrying
prohibited goods, such as would confiscate the ship, where the
judgment" (jurisdiction) "remains in the Admiralty, as some you
know do this day, though such judgments, in many cases, have
been of late transferred to other Courts by act of Parliament."
(id. vol. 2. p. 708.) But Sir James Marriot says, in the case
of the Columbia, in 1782, that " the Coiart of Admiralty derives no jurisdiction in cases of revenue, (appropriated by the
common law to the Court of Exchequer,) from the patent of its
Judge, or the ancient jurisdiction of the croWn in the person of its
Lord High Admiral. The first statute which places judgment of
revenue in the plantations with the Courts of Admiralty, is the 12th
of Charles II." (2 Bro. Civ. ey Adrn. Law, 492. Note 3.) But
in Great-Britain, all appeals from the colonial Vice-Admiralty
Courts in those causes, are to the High Court of Admiralty, and not
to the privy council, which is the appellate tribunal in other plantation causes. This poiut was determined in 1754, io the case of the
Vrow Dorothea, before the High Court of Delegates, which wag
aii appral from the Vice-Admiralty Judge of South Carolina, to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the High Court of Admiralty, and thence to the Delegates.

The

397
1823.

appellate jurisdiction was contested, upon the ground, that prosecutions for the breach of the navigation, and other revenue laws, The Sarah.
were not, in their nature, causes civil and maritime, and under the
oidinary jurisdiction of the Court of Admiralty, but that it was a
jurisdiction specially given to the Vice-Admiralty Courts by stat.
7'and 8 Win. II. c. 22. s. 6. which did not take any notice of the
appellate jurisdiction of the High Court of Admiralty in such
eases. The objection, however, was overruled by the Delegates,
and the determination has since received the unanimous concurrence of all the common law Judges, on a reference to them from
the privy council. (2 Rob. 246.) Whether this jurisdiction of the
colonial Courts of Vice-Admiralty over seizures for a breach of the
revenue laws was a part of the original Admiralty jurisdiction, inherent in those Courts, or was derived from the statutes of Charles
I. and William II., it is certain, that it was uniformly exercised by
those Courtsin this country before the revolution; and such seizures
upon water were very early determined by this Court to be 11cases
of Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," within the meaning of
those terms, as used in the constitution. But revenue seizures made
on land have been uniformly left to their natural forum, and to their
appropriate proceeding, which is an exchequer information in rem.
These informations are not to be confounded with criminal informations at common law, or with an information of debt, which is
the king's action of debt. They are civil proceedings in rem, and
may be amended in the District Court where they are commenced,
or in the Circuit Court upon anpeal. (Anonymous, 1 Gallis.
Rep. 22.) But if merits appear in this Court, and an amendment
is wanted to make the allegations correspond to the proof, the
amendment will not be made by this Court, but the cause will be
remanded, with directions to permit an amendment and for further
proceedings. (The Edward, ante, Vol. I. p. 261-264. The
Caroline, 7"Cranch'sRep. 496. 500. The Anne, id. 570.)

