OF THE UNITED STATES.

States has also declared, that in suits at common
law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be
preserved. Any attempt to set up the wager of
law, would be utterly inconsistent with this acknowledged right. So that the wager of law, if
it ever had a legal existence in the United States,
is now completely abolished. If, then, we apply
the rule of the. common law to the present case,
we shall arrive, necessarily, at the conclusion, that
the action of debt does lie- against the executor,
because the testator could never have waged his
law in this case.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the Circuit
Court is affirmed, with 6 per cent. damages, and
costs.

(PRAXcTICE.

PLE.&DINGS.]

and NALL, Administrators of WILLIAM
NALL, deceased, Plaintiffs in Error,

SIGLAR

V.

Public Treasurer of the State of
North Carolina, Defendant in Error.

JOHN HAYWOOD,

An executor or administrator is not liable to a judgment beyond the
assets to be administered, unless he pleads a false plea.
If he fail to sustain his plea of plene administravi4 it is not necessarily a false plea within his own knowledge; and, if it be found
against him, the verdict ought to find the amount of assets unadministered, and the defendant is liable for that sum only.
In such a case, the judgment is de bonis tstaorh, and not de banis
proprlis.

676

1825.
Si
Haywood.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.
'This

Siglar

v.

Iaywood.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Tennessee.
was an action of debt, brought in the Court
below by Haywood, the defendant in error, against
Siglar and Nail, the plaintiffs in error, upon a
judgment obtained against their intestate, William
Nall, in the Superior Court for the District of
Hillsborough, in the State ot North Carolina, for
the sum of 2980 dollars and 5 cents. The defbndants pleaded, (1) Nil debet, and (2) Plene
administravit. The plaintiff replied to the
second plea, that the defendants have, and on the
day of commencing this suit had, divers goods,
&c., whereof they could have satisfied the plaintiff for the debt aforesaid. On the trial, it appearedbythe accounts exhibited by the defendants.
that a part of the intestate's goods, and chattels
remained in their hands unadministered. On
which, the plaintiff's counsel moved the Court to
instruct the jury, that the plea of plene administravit was, therefore, false, and that -on that
ground, the plaintiff was entitled to his verdict
onf the. whole issue. The instruction was given
by the Court, to which the counsel for the defendants excepted. The jury returned a verdict
for the plaintiff, for the sum of 2565 dollars and
16 cents debt, and 4429 dollars and 53 cents damages, for the detention thereof; and also found,
" that the defendants have not fully administered
all and singular the goods and chattels, rights and
credits, which were of the decedent, and which
came to their hands to be administered, previous
to the issuing of the writ of capias in this cause,
a§ the plaintiff in replying hath alleged."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

677

Upon which, judgment was entered as follows:
"Therefore it is considered by the Court, that
the plaintiff recover against the defendants 2565
dollars and 16 cents, the residue of the debt
aforsaid, in form aforesaid assessed, and also his
costs," &c. And the cause was brought by writ
of error to this Court.

Harvood.

Mr. Sergeant, for the plaintiffs in error, (no

Fcb. 4th.

counsel appearing for the defendant in error,)
made the following points, together with several
others which it is not thought necessary to state,
because they are not noticed in the opinion of the
Court.
1. That the Court erred in the above instruction given to the jury.
2. That the verdict was erroneous, because it
did not find what goods and chattels, rights and
credits of the intestate, or what amount thereof,
remained in the defendants' hands unadministered.
3. The judgment was erroneous, because it is
against the defeidants generally, and de bonis
propriis,when it ought to have been de bonis testatoris.
Under the first point he argued, that the law was
well settled, that executors are no further chargeable than they have assets, unless they make
themselves so by pleading a false plea, i. e. such a
plea as would be a perpetual bar to the plaintiff,
and which they know to be false, as ne unques
executor, or a release to themselves. But if they

1823.
T.

678

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

plead a former judgment by another person, et nil
Sultra,,and the plaintiff replies per fraudem, yet
Siglar
v.
judgment shall be de bonis testatorisa The only
Haywod. plea hat can involve the defendant in personal
responsibility, (except as above stated,) and that
onlyfor costs, is a plea disputing the debt-' Harrison v. Beeclesc is in point. The plea there
was plene administravit. It was proved, that
the defendant had assets, but of less amount
than the plaintiff's claim. It was contended, that
the plaintiff was entitled to recover the whole
amount. Lord Mansfield decided, after consultation with the other Judges, that he could only
recover the amount of assets proved, which has
been the law ever since.
Upon the second point, if an executor plead
plene administravit,and issue is joined thereon,
and the jury find, that the defendant had goods in
his hands, but do not find the value, the verdict is
void for uncertainty."
As to the mode of entering judgment against
an executor or admtiiistrator, and afterwards proceeding thereon, he cited 2 Tidd's Pract.842.
894. 99. 1017-1020.
a1 oRbN.
Abr. 931.
b 1 Ckitty's P1. 485. See form of plea, and note on it in 2
Chitty, 499. It agrees with the form used in this action. Under
this allegation CCbath not, nor on the day, &c. had," &c. the defendant may give in eyidence any due administration of assets.
2 Saund. 220. note 3. Chitty, ut sup.
- Cited 3 Term Rep. 685. 690.
d Co. Litt. 227 a. Fairfax v. Fairf.ax, 5 Cranch's Rep. 19.
Booth v. Arm'rong, 2 Wash. Rep. 301. Harrison v. Beecles,
3 Term Rep. 688, 689. note.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

679

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the 182.
opinion of the Court. This case presents several Siglar
I.
questions of some difficulty; but, as the argument
has been ex parte, and there are other points on Haywood.
which the judgment must necessarily be reversed, .Fcb. 5th.
the Court will confine its opinion to those on which
no doubt can arise.
At the trial of the issue of fully administered,
the plaintiff's counsel moved the Court to instruct
the jury "that as it appeared, by the accounts exhibited by the defendants, that a part remained
in their hands unadministered, that the plea was,
therefore, false, and that on that ground he was
entitled to their verdict on the whole issue." This
instruction was given by the Court, and to this
opinion the counsel for the defendants excepted.
It is now well settled, and the case cited from
Craitch, in the argument, is founded on the principle, that if an administrator fails to sustain his
plea of fully administered, h is not, on that account, liable to a judgment beyond the assets to be
administered. The plea is not necessarily false
within his own knowledge; he may have failed
to adduce proof of payments actually made. It
is not required that the plea should state with precision the assets remaining unadministered ; and
an executor or administrator would always incur
great hazard, if he were required to state and
prove the precise sum remaining in his hands,
under the penalty of being exposed to a judgment
for the whole amount claimed, whatever it might
be. To state a full administration, without proving
it, would be useless. The rule and usage, there-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

fore, is, that if the plea of fully administered be
found against the defendant, the verdict ought to

\

Y.
Hywood.

find the amount of assets unadministered, and the
defendant is.liable for that sum only. The in-

struction of the Court, on this point, is erroneous,
end, consequently, the verdict and judgment
founded on it, must be set aside and reversed.
The same drror is in the verdict.. Instead of
finding the amount of assets remaining unadministered, it finds the whole amount claimed, which,
as was decided in the case already mentioned,. is
clearly erroneous.
There. is also additional error in the judgment
which is rendered against the administrators, de
bonis propriisinstead of being de bonis testatoris.
For these errors, the judgment must be reverseO.
and the verdict set aside, and the cause remanded
for farther proceedings. according to law.
Judgment reversed.
This cause came on .to be heard or
JUPGMENT.
the transcript of the record of the Cotirt of thL
United States for the seventh circuit in the D, itrict of East Tennessee, and was argued by counsel on the part of the plaintiffs in error. On consideration whereof, this Court is of opinion, that
there is error in the record and proceed i.'s of
the said Circuit Court, in this, that the said .,ourf
instructed the jury, on the trial of the issue, on
the plea of fully administered, that, as it appears
by the accounts exhibited by the defendants,
a part remained in their hands unadministered,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the plea. was, therefore, false, and that, on mat
ground, the plaintiff was entitled to their verdict
on the whole issue; and, also, in this, that the
jury have found a verdict, on the plea of fully administered, against the defendants, without finding
the sum unadministered; and, also, in this, that
the judgment on the said verdict is absolute against
the administrators themselves, instead of being,
to be levied of the goods and chattels of their intestate, in their hands to be administered. Whereupon it is considered by the Court, that the said
judgment be reversed, and the verdict be set aside,
and the cause remanded to the said Circuit Court,
that further proceedings may be had therein according to law.

[LoCAL LAw.]

THx

CORPoRA rION OF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON,

PRATT,

and others, Appellants,
V.
FRANCiS, and others, Respondents.

Under the 8th section of the act of 1812, to amend the act for the
incorporation of the city of Washington, a sale of unimproved
squares or lots in the city, for the payment of taxes, is illegal, unless
such squares and lots have been assessed to the true and lawful
proprietors thereof.
The lien upon each lot, for the taxes, is several and distinct, and tho
purchaser of each holds his lot unencumbered with the taxes due
on'the other lots held by his vendor.

VoL. VIII.

86

681
1823.
Corporation.

of
Washing'

pr'tL

