OF THE UNITED STATES.

257

1 2.
tion a usurpation of power.by a State, to regulate and control the
rights of the United States. In'the language of the act of 1789,
Greeley
it could not be a, cme where 1he laws of the State could apply.
The mischief, too; of such a construction, would be very great. The V.
United
States.
The public rights, revenue, and property, would be subject to the
arbitrary limitations of the States; and the lhmitatiois are so various in these States, that the government would hold its rights by a
differenttenure in each." Id. p. 315.

[Co NSTRucTzo

Gi.ELE

oF STATUTE.]

and others v- The

UNITED STATES.

Collusive captures and violations of the revenue laws, committed by
a private arined vessel, are a breach of the condition of the bond
given by the owners, under the Prize Actof June 26,1812, c.430. s.
S.Ifsuch breach appear upon demurrer, the defendants are not entitled to a hearing in equity under the Judiciary Act, of 1789, c. 90.
s.26".

THIS cause came before the Court upon a certifibate of a division of opinion between the
Judges of the Circuit Court of Maine. It was an
action of debt, originally, brought in the District
Court of Maine, by the United States, against the
defendants in that Court, Greeley and others,
upon-a bond executed by them on the 17th of December, 1813, under the Prize Act of June 26th,
'1812i c. 430, s. -3. as owners of the private .armed
vessel called the Fly, conditioned, that " the
owners, officers, and crew of the said armed vessel, shall observe the laws and treaties of the UniVOL. VMII.

33

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

182a.
t

Gieeley

V.¢

Thetates.d

ted States, and the instructions which shall be

given according to law for the regulation of their

conduct, and satisfy all damages and injuries which
shall be done or committed contrary to the tenor
tnereof, by such vessel, during her commission,
and deliver up the same when revoked by the President of the United States." The defendants
pleaded a performance of this condition; to which
the District Attorney replied, that on the 15th day
of December, 1813, at a place called St. Johnb,
the same being a colony and dependency of Great
Britain, certain goods, &c. the same being of
the growth, produce, and manufacture of Great
Britain,- or some colony or dependency thereof,
the importation whereof into the said States, then
and for a long time afterwards, and at the time of
bringing the same into the said District of Maine,
was, by law, prohibited, were put on board a certain vessel or schooner called the George, with
the intention to import the same into the said
States, contrary to the true intent and meaning of
the statute in such case made and provided, and
with the knowledge of the master of the said
schooner George; and, afterwards, in pursuance
of said intention, the said schooner did depart
from the said place of lading, to wit, St. Johns,
and there, afterwards, on the high seas, by way of
collusion, and with intent to evade the statute
aforesaid, and under colour of capture by the private armed vessel called the Fly, aforesaid, to
import the said goods, &c. into the said States,
contrary to the true intent and meaning of the
statute aforesaid, the said schooner George, so

OF THE UN1TEI)

STATES.

laden as aforesaid, was taken, possession of by the
said Dekoven, by and with the said private armed
vessel called the Fly, whereof the said Dekoven
then and there was master as aforesaid, on the
high seas, and, afterwards, on the 24th day of January, 1814, the said schooner George, and the
goods, &c. aforesaid, were brought into the
port of iEllsworth, in the said District of Maine,
and the goods, -&c. were then and there, under
tolour of capture, by said Dekoven, his officers
-and crew, in and with said schooner Fly, imported, in manner aforesaid, into the said States, contrary to the true intent and meaning of the statute
aforesaid. Other pleadings followed, (which .it
is not necessary to state,) ending with a demurrer,
upon which the District Court was of opinion,
that the plaintiffs were entitled to judgment. The
defendants, thereuldn, moved for a hearing in
Chancery upon the making up of the judgment
on the bond declared on, which motion was denied,
and judgment rendered for the United States.
The cause was then brought by writ of error to
the Circuit Court, the Judges of which were divided
in opinion upon the following questions, which
were, thereupon, certified to this Court.
1. Whether an American private armed vessel,
duly commissioned, making collusive captures of
enemy's property during the late war with Great
Britain, and under colour of such capture, introducing goods and merchandise into the United
States, contrary to the provisions of the act of
March 1, 1809, c. 195. revived and continued in
force by the act of March 2, 1811, c. 306. thereby

1823.
V.
ToUnt

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

broke the condition of the bond given pursuant
the third section of the statute of June 26,1812,
G.
c.
430. requiring, " that the owners, officers, and
The United
Stated crew, who shall be employed on board such commissioned vessel, shall and will
observe the treaties and laws of the United States ?"
2. Whether, if such proceeding on the part of
such private armed vessel, be a breach of the condition of said bond, and such breach appear upon
demurrer, the defendants can by law claim a hearing in Chancery, under the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20. s. 26. ?
183

Greeley

Ab. 14t1h.

Sto

The cause was briefly argued by Mr. Webster,
for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Pitman,for
the United States.
The Court directed the following certificate to
be sent to the Circuit Court.
This cause came on to be heard
on "the transcript of*the record of the Court of
the United States, for the first circuit in the District of Maine; on the points on which the Judges
of that Court were divided in opinion, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
this Court is of opinion:
1. That an American private armed vessel,
duly eommissioned, making collusive captures of
enemy's property during the late war with Great
Britain, and under colour of such captures introducing goods and merchandise into the United
States, contrary to the provisions of the act of
March 1, 1809, c. 195. revived and continued in
CERTIFICATE.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2M

force by the act of March 2,1811, c. 306. -thereby .1823.
broke the condition of the bond given pursuant ''v
.
to the third s'ection of the statute of June 26th, mel
1812, c. 430. requiring " that the owners, officers,
and crew, who shall be employed on board such
commissioned vessel, shall and will observe the
treaties and laws of the United States.
2. That where such breach- appears upon damurrer, the defendants cannot, by law; claim a
hearing under the Judiciary Act of September
24th, 1789, c. 20. s. 26.
All which- is directed to be eertified to the.Circuit .Court of the United States for the first circuit and District of Maine.

[PRIZE.]

The EXPERISIENT.
In cases of collusive capture, papers found on board one captured
vessel may be invoked into the case'of another captured on the
same cruise.
A commission obtained by fraudulent 'k1pres6etation,
will not
vest the interests of prize.
But a collusive capture made undd- a cbrUdHisl~is not, per 8e,evidence that the" commission was frudqeutly obtained.
A collusive capture vests no title in the captors, not because the commission is thereby made void, but because the captors' thereby forfeit all title to the prize property.

APPEAL from the decree of the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts, affirming the' decree of'the
.District Court of Maine, by which the sloop Experiment, and cargo, were condemned to the United States, as having been collusively captured by

