OF THE UNITED STATES.

2M

force by the act of March 2,1811, c. 306. -thereby .1823.
broke the condition of the bond given pursuant ''v
.
to the third s'ection of the statute of June 26th, mel
1812, c. 430. requiring " that the owners, officers,
and crew, who shall be employed on board such
commissioned vessel, shall and will observe the
treaties and laws of the United States.
2. That where such breach- appears upon damurrer, the defendants cannot, by law; claim a
hearing under the Judiciary Act of September
24th, 1789, c. 20. s. 26.
All which- is directed to be eertified to the.Circuit .Court of the United States for the first circuit and District of Maine.

[PRIZE.]

The EXPERISIENT.
In cases of collusive capture, papers found on board one captured
vessel may be invoked into the case'of another captured on the
same cruise.
A commission obtained by fraudulent 'k1pres6etation,
will not
vest the interests of prize.
But a collusive capture made undd- a cbrUdHisl~is not, per 8e,evidence that the" commission was frudqeutly obtained.
A collusive capture vests no title in the captors, not because the commission is thereby made void, but because the captors' thereby forfeit all title to the prize property.

APPEAL from the decree of the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts, affirming the' decree of'the
.District Court of Maine, by which the sloop Experiment, and cargo, were condemned to the United States, as having been collusively captured by

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1823.

the private armed schooner Fly. The facts (so
4UExpori- far as necessary).are stated in the opinion of this
nat.

Feb. i t&

Court.

Mr. Webster, for the appellants, argued, that
this case was distinguishable in its eircumatances
from that of the George,a captured by the samn
privateer, and adjudged by this Court to be a collusive capture.
Mr. Pitman, for the United States, argued
upon the facts with great minuteness and ability,
to show, that the capture was made mala fide.
He, also, contended, that the captors, who had
obtained their commission for the fraudulent purpose of violating the laws of the United States,
and who had been detected by this Court in an
attempt to impose on it in a former case,' could
not be entitled to derive any benefit 'rom their
commission, even supposing the capture in the
present instance not to be collusive. The Court
had already settled certain principles analogous to
that on which he insisted. Thus, it has been determined, that if a "neutral ship-owner lend his
name to cover a fraud with regard to the cargo,
this will subject the ship to confiscation.0 So, if
a party attempt to impose, upon the Court by
knowingly or fraudulently claiming as his own,
property belonging in part to others, he will not
a 1 Wheat. Rep. 4OF

2 Wheat. Rep. 278.

b 1b.
c The St. Nicholas, 1 Wheat. Rep. 417.

Wkiat. Rep. 236.

The Fortuna, 3

OF THE UNITED STATES.

26S

be entitled to restitutiorl of that portion which he 182s.
may ultimately establish as his own.' And in the
case of the Anne, the Court distinctly reLuognisa movt.
the principle, that fraud will forfeit all rights to
which captors might otherwise have been entitled
under their commission.b He also cited authorities to show, that the Court would take notice of
facts which came judicially into their view in the
case with which this was so closely associated,
and would severely scrutinize the conduct of the
same parties in a similar transaction.4
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Feb. 141h.
Court. This is a prize cause, brought by appeal
from the Circuit Court of Massachusetts, affirming, pro foma, the decree of the District Court
of Maine. The sloop Experiment, and cargo,
are confessedly British property, and were cap.
tured by the privateer Fly during the late war,
and brought in port, and proceeded against by the
captors in the proper Court, for the purpose of
being adjudged lawful prize. No claim was filed
in behalf of the captured; but the United States
interposed a claim, upon the ground, that the capture was fraudulent and collusive, and the cargo
was introduced into the country in violation of the
non-importation acts then in force; which prohibited
the importation of goods of British manufacture,
( The Dos Hermanos, 2 Wh eat. Rep. 76.
6 3 Wheat. Rep, 448.
c T4w Arg, I Rob. Rep. 158. The Juffiow Elbrecht, Id.
126.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
"Upon
The
Experimet

as the goods comprising this cargo certainly were.
the trial in -the Court below, the claim of
the United States was sustained, and the capture
being adjudged collusive, a condemnation was
decreed to the government. From that decree
the captors have appealed to this Court; and the
cause now stands for judgment as well upon the
original evidence, as the farther proofs which have
beeni produced by the parties in this Court.
The privateer is the same, whose conduct came
under consideration in the case of the George, reported in 1 Wheat. Rep. 408. and 2 Wheat. Rep.
278. and was there adjudged to have been collusive. The present capturQ was made during the
same cruise, by the same crew, and about six days
only before the capture of the George. Under
an order of the Court, the original papers and
proceedings in the case of the George,.have been
invoked into this cause ; and atter a long-Interval,
during which the parties have had the most ample
opportunities to clear the case of any unfounded
suspicions, the decision of the Court upon the
arguments at the bar, is finally to be pronounced.
At the threshold of the cause, we are met*by
the question, whether a party claiming under a
commission which he has obtained from the government by fraud, or has used in a fraudulent
manner, can acquire any right to captures made
in virtue of auch commission. Undoubtedly a
commission may be forfeited by grossly illegal
conduct; and a commission fraudulently obtained,
is,as to vesting the interests of prize, utterly void.
But a commission may be lawfully obtained, al-

OF THE UNITED STATES.2

though the parties intend to use it as a cover for
illegal purposes. It is one thing to procure a
commission by fraud, and another to abuse it for
bad purposes. And if a commission is fairly obtained, without imposition or fraud upon the officers of government, it is not void merely because
the parties privately intend to. violate, under its
protection, the laws of their country. The abuse,
therefore, of the commission, is not, per se, evidence that it was 6riginally obtained by fraud
and imposition. The illegal acts of the parties
are sufficiently punished by depriving them of the
fruits of their unlawful enterprises. A collusive
capture conveys no title to the captors, not because the commission is thereby made void, but
because the captors thereby forfeit all title to the
prize property.
-And, after all, while the commission is unreyoked, it must still remain a question upon each
distinct capture, upon the evidence regularly before the Prize Court, whether there be any fraud
in the original concoction, or in the conduct of
the cruise. We cannot draw in aid the evidence
which exclusively belongs to another cause, to fix
fraud upon the transaction, unless so far as, upon
the general principles of prize proceedings, it
may be properly invoked. The present case, then,
must depend upon its own circumstances.
It cannot, however, escape the attention of the
Court, that this privateer has already been detected in a gross case of collusive capture, on the
same cruise, and under the same commission.
This is a fact, of which, sitting as a Court of AdVOL. VIIL

34

265
IM2.
Mt.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1.823. miraity, we are bound to take notice ; and it cerv
tainly raises a presumption of ill faith in other
The EKperi-"
raw.
transactions of the same parties, which can be removed only by clear evidence of honest conduct.
If the circumstances of other captures, during the
same cruise, are such as lead to serious doubts of
the fairness of their character, every presumption
against them is grbatly strengthened; and suspicions once justly excited in this way, ought not
to be easily satisfied. The captors have had full
notice of the difficulties of their. case, and after
an order for farther proof, which should awaken
extraordinary diligence, they cannot complain
that the Court does not yield implicit belief to new
testimony, when it comes laden with grave contradictions, or is opposed by other unsuspected
proofs.
Many of the circumstances, which were thought
by the Court to be entitled to great weight in the
decision of the George, have also occurred in the
present case. The original equipment, ownership, shipping articles, and conduct of the cruiser,
are of course the same. The stay at Machias,
the absence of Lieut. Sebor, the very suspicious
nature of his journey, the apparent connexion of
that journey with persons and objects in the immediate vicinity of the place where the voyage of
the prize commenced, are distinctly in proof.
The bad equipment of the prize, her indiffdrent
condition, and small crew for the voyage, the piature of her cargo, and the flimsy pretences set
up for the enterprise, in the letters on board, are
circumstances of suspicion, quite as strongly made

OF THE UNITED STATES.

207

out as in the George. The conduct of the prize, 1823.
during her ostensible voyage, was still more .stri- Tho Rxpeflking. She was far out of the ordinary course of
the voyage, without any necessity, or even plaugible excuse. She chose voluntarily to sail along
the American coast, out of the tract of her voyage, even at the moment when she affected to
have notice that the Fly was on a cruise'; and
she exposed herself to capture, in a manner that
can scarcely be accounted. for, except upon the
supposition of collusion. The pretence set up
for this conduct, is exceedingly slight and unsatisfactory. The circumstances of the capture, too,
as they come from the testimony of some of the
captors, as well as from a disinterested witness,
are not calculated to allay any doubt. Here, as in
the George, all of the prize crew, excepting one,
were dismissed without any effort to hold them as
prisoners, and without any apparent reason for
the dismissal. And if the testimony of one of
the captors is to be believed, there is entire proof
that the prize was long expected, and came as a
known friend under preconcerted signals. It may
be added, that the testimony of the captors is, in
some material respects, inconsistent; and if the
testimony of two disinterested and respectable
witnesses is to be credited, the master of the
prize, in opposition to his present testimony, admitted, in the most explicit manner, that the capture was collusive.
We do not think that it would conduce to any
useful purpose to review the evidence at large. It
appears to us to be a case. where the circum-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

268

18Z25.
Spring
V.

stances of collusion are quite as strong, if not
Sstronger,

than in the George.

And we are there-

fore of opinion, that the decree of condemnation

S. C.Ins. of the prize and her cargo, to the United States,
ought to be affirmed, with costs.

Company.

[(n.CrAYr~.

LizEN.

Ass5GNM1ENT.)

SETH SPRiN, and Sons, Appellants,
V.

The

SOUTH CAROLINA IN.SURANCE COMPANY, GRAY

& PINDAR, WILLIAM LINDSAY, and JOHN HAS-

LETT, Respondents.
An insolvent debtor has a right to prefer one creditor to another in
payment by an assignment bonafide made, and no subsequent attachment, or subsequently acquired lien, will avoid the assignment.
Such an assignment may include choses in action, as a policy of insurance, and will entitle the assignee to receive from the underwriters the amount insured in case of a loss. It is not necessary, that
the assignment should be accompanied by an actual delivery of the
policy.
Upon a bill of interpleader, filed by underwriters against the different
creditors of an insolvent debtor, claiming the fund proceeding from
an insurance made for account of the debtor, some on the ground
ef speeit1 liens,.and others under the assigniment, the rights of the
respective parties will be determined. But, on ro.ch a: bill, those of
the co-defendants who fail in establishing any right to the fund,
are not entitled to an account from the defendant whose claims are
allowed, of the amount and origin of those claims.
On a bill of interpleader, the plaintiffs are in general entitled to their
costs out of the fund. Where the money is not brought into
Court, they must pay interest upon it.

