DOUD v. HODGE.

485

Opinion of the Court.

DOUD 9T AL., DOING BUSINESS AS BONDIFIED SYSTEMS, ET AL. v. HODGE, AUDITORGOE PUBLIC.
ACCOUNTS OFILLINOIS, ETAL
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED ,STATES DISTRICT C9URT FOR THE
WORTHERNDISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

,No. 129,

Argued:February '29, 1956.- Deaded'March 26, '1956.

A three-judge federal district,cur has jurisdition under28, U. $. C.
§§' 1331, 2281' and 2284 of a suit to enjoin enforcement of a staie
statute on grouihds of alleqed Yepugnancy to the Federal eonstitution-, even. 'though the sttte' courts halke'not'yet rendered a. clear
or definitive decision as to thle mdaningi or- federal constitutionlality
of -the statute, Pp. 485-487.,
127 F Supp 8.53, judgment.vacated and Rase reman~ded.

John J. Ywell argued the. cause and filed a. brefor
appellants.
William C Wines, Assistant,Attorney General of Illi,
nois, argued the-cause for appellees. With hn on the
brief was Latham Castle, Attorney General. Raymond
S. Sarnow, Assistant, Attorney, General; was also on a
Motion tQ Affirm.
MR. JUSTICE MANTON delivered theopinion of, the
Court,
The appellants are a partnership and its agent, all
residents oT Illinois. The -partnership was engaged
exclusively in the business of selling and issuing money
orders in the 'State of'l1inois. This business activity
was to b6 conducted through-agets who are principally
persons engaged in operAting r~til drug, hardware and
groceryp stores. Appellifit.Dertick; '.-diug store proprietor contracted with the ,partnership toact,as its agent
for the sale of money orders whichit issqpd'

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

350 U. S.

Illinois, by statute,' has sought to license and regulate
community currency exchanges. Section 1 of the Community Currency Exchanges Act defines a community
currency exchange as "any person, firm, association, partnership or corporation, except banks incorporated under
the laws of this State and National Banks organized pursuant to the laws of the United States, engaged .'. . in
the business or service of, and providing facilities for, cashing checks, drafts, money orders or any other evidences of
money acceptable to such community currency exchange,
for a fee or service charge or other consideration, or
engaged in the business of selling or issuing money
orders under his or their or its name, or any other money
orders (other than United States Post Office money orders,
American Express Company money order, Postal Telegraph Company money orders, or Western Union
Telegraph Company money orders), or engaged in both
such businesses, or engaged in performing any one or more
of the foregoing services." ' Subsequent sections of the
Act provide for the licensing and comprehensive regulation of such businesses.
Appellants brought this suit in the Northern District
of Illinois seeking to enjoin the appellees, who are the
Auditor of Public Accounts, the Attorney General of the
State of Illinois and the State's Attorney of Cook County,
Illinois, from enforcing the Community Currency Exchanges Act against them. Jurisdiction was asserted
under 28 U. S.C. § 1331. Appellants argued that a permranent injunction should be issued on the ground that
the Act denied them equal protection of the laws in
violation of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution in that appellants are required to
obtain a license and submit to regulation in the conduct
I Ill. Rev. Stat., 1955, c. 161/2, §§ 30-56.3.
2Il. Rev. Stat., 1955, c. 162, § 31.

DOUD v. HODGE.
485

Opinion of the Court.

of their money order business in the State while the American Express Company, which is engaged in the identical
business activity in Illinois, is excepted from the operation
of the Act. Since the complaint attacked the validity of
a state statute under the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution, the suit was tried before a threejudge District Court pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §§ 2281 and
2284.
The District Court heard the case at length and made
findings of fact, the materiaI portions of which we have
set forth above. The District Court dismissed the complaint, holding that it lacked jurisdiction to determine
the constitutional question presented in the absence of
an authoritative determination by the Supreme Court
of Illinois as to whether the exemption of the American
Express Company from the terms of the Act is unconstitutional as applied to these appellants. 127 F. Supp.
853. We noted probable jurisdiction. 350 U. S. 814.
It is clear that the District Court had jurisdiction to
entertain appellants' complaint by virtue of the authority
vested in it by 28 U. S. C. §§ 2281 and 2284. This Court
has never held that a district court is without jurisdiction
to entertain a prayer for an injunction restraining the
enforcement of a state statute on grounds of alleged
repugnancy to the Federal Constitution simply because
the state courts had not yet rendered a clear or definitive
decision as to the meaning or federal constitutionality of
the statute.
We hold that the District Court has jurisdiction of this
cause. It wat error to dismiss the complaint for lack of
jurisdiction. The judgment of the District Court is
vacated and the case is remanded to it. We do not decide
what procedures the District Court should follow on
remand.
It is so ordered.

