OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
Opinion of the Court.

350 U. S.

GIBSON v. LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT SERVICE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 42.

Argued December 5-6, 1955.-Decided February 27, 1956.

1. In this case, in which petitioner recovered a judgment against
respondent in a personal-injuries action in a Federal District Court,
the instructions given to the jury by the trial court were complete
and correct, and there was no error in refusing the additional
instructions requested by respondent. Pp. 356-357.
2. In the exercise of the supervisory powers of this Court over the
lower federal courts, the judgment of the Court of Appeals, reversing the judgment of the District Court and remanding the case
for a new trial, is reversed in the interest of justice, and the judgment of the District Court is reinstated. P. 357.
217 F. 2d 730, reversed.
G. C. Spillers, Jr. argued the cause for petitioner.

With

him on the brief were G. C. Spillers and Edward C. Fritz.

Emory A. Cantey argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were R. K. Hanger and David
0.

Belew, Jr.
PER CURIAM.

Petitioner Gibson recovered judgment in a personal
injuries

action against

the

United States District Court.

Lockheed

Company in

a

The Court of Appeals for

the Fifth Circuit reversed and remanded for a new trial
on the ground that four instructions requested by Lockheed and refused by the trial court should have been

given.

217 F. 2d 730.

We granted certiorari, 349 U. S.

943, to consider the following questions:
(1) Whether Lockheed's objection to the trial
court's refusal to give its requested instructions com-

GIBSON v. LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT CO.
356

FRANKFURTER,

357

J., concurring.

plied with Rule 51 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure.
(2) Whether the refusal of the trial court to charge
as requested by respondent Lockheed was prejudicial
error requiring reversal.
A thorough consideration of the record convinces us
that the charge as given by the trial court was both complete and correct. Cf. District of Columbiav. Woodbury,
136 U. S. 450, 466. There was no error in refusing the
requested instructions. We consider this to be a case
where, in the exercise of our supervisory powers over the
lower federal courts, the judgment of the Court of Appeals should be reversed in the interests of justice, and
that of the District Court reinstated. Accordingly, we
find it unnecessary to consider the question presented as
to Rule 51..
Reversed.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

The controlling claim on which petitioner sought certiorari was that the decision of the Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit disclosed conflict and confusion among
the circuits in the application of Rule 51 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure. We granted the petition. A
critical examination of the 118 decisions on which the
petitioner relied in his claim regarding Rule 51 convinces me that there was no such conflict and confusion.
Therefore, for the reasons set forth by Mr. Chief Justice
Taft on behalf of the Court in Layne & Bowler Corp. v.
Western Well Works, Inc., 261 U. S. 387, the writ should
be dismissed as improvidently granted even though full
argument has been had. But my brethren find that
certain rulings of the Court of Appeals involving ordinary
questions in the law of negligence, which by themselves
never would have warranted the granting of a writ, are

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1955.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

350 U. S.

so obviously and injuriously erroneous, "as to call for an
exercise of this court's power of supervision." This is of
course one of the considerations within our Rule governing review on certiorari. Rule 19 (1) (b). I accept their
reading of the record and therefore join in the judgment
of the Court.

