250

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

tors chiefly rely, are clearly distinguishable in their essential aspects. In the Despres Case the original petition
had been dismissed and the intervening creditors did not
join in it but filed a new petition; and, despite the somewhat broad language used in the opinion, it was obviously
not intended to modify or overrule the prior decision of the
same court in First State Bank v. Haswell, supra, which
was cited with approval (p. 192). And in the Trammell
Case other creditors were not permitted to reopen a proceeding in which the original petition had been dismissed,
as being not an intervention in a pending proceeding but
the "nstitution of a new one.
The question, upon which the decisions show a connlict
of opinion, as to the joinder of an intervening creditor in
an original petition insufficient upon its face, is not here
involved and is not determined.
Finding, for the foregoing reasons, no error in the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, it is
Affirmed.

BUNCH v. COLE ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME' COURT OF THE
STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 33.

Submitted March 16, 1923.-Decided November 19, 1923.

When a lease of an Indian allotment made by the allottee in excess
of the powers of alienation allowed him by acts of Congress, is
declared by those acts to be absolutely null and void, a state
statute which, as applied by the state court, gives it effect as
creating a tenancy at will and as controlling the amount of compensation which the allottee m6y recover for the use and occupation
of the land by the persons named as lessees, is to that extent inyalid
under Article VI, cl. 2, of the Constitution. P. 253.
85 Okla. 38, reversed; certiorari dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment of .he Supreme Court of Oklahoma which reversed a judgment recovered by the present

BUNCH. v. COLE.
250

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff in error in a trial court,.in his action to recover
for wrongful use and occupation of his allotted land.
Mr. Dennis T. Flynn, Mr. Robert M. Rainey and Mr.
Streeter B. Flynn, for plaintiff in error and petitioner.
Mr. William Neff and Mr. Lewis E. Neff were also on the
briefs.
Mr. Benjamin Martin, Jr., for defendants in error and
respondents.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This was an action by an Indian allottee to recover for
a wrongful occupancy and use of his land.
The plaintiff was an adult Cherokee Indian of the full
blood, enrolled and recognized as a member of the tribe
and still a ward of the United States. The land was an
eighty-acre tract which had been allotted to him in the
division of the tribal lands,-forty acres as a homestead
and the remainder as surplus land. He had full title, but
his power to alien or lease was subject to restrictions
imposed by Congress for his protectioh. By three successive instruments, each given for a cash rental of $75,
he leased the land, both homestead and surplus, to the
defendants for agricultural purposes. The first lease was
given late in 1915 for a term of one year beginning January 1, 1916; the second was given early in July, 1916,
for a term of one year beginning January 1, 1917, and the
-third was given late in July, 1917, for a term of one-year
beginning January 1, 1918. The defendants went into
possession under the leases, and in 1917 and 1918 sublet
the land to others. From the subletting the defendants
realized $890.40 in 1917, and $384.35 in 1918, these sums
representing the actual rental value on a crop-sharing
basis in those years.
The action was begun in 1919 on the theory that the
leases were made in violation of the restrictions.imposed

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

263 U. S.

by Congress, and therefore were wholly void. At first a
recovery was sought for all three years, but afterwards
the claim for 1916 was dropped. On the trial the court
treated the leases for 1917 and 1918 as void, but ruled
that the plaintiff had waived the invalidity of the lease
for 1917 by not promptly objecting to any occupancy or
use under it, and so could not recover for that year. A
recovery was had for 1918 of a sum conforming to what
the defendants had realized from the subletting for that
year, with interest. Both parties appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, and it reversed the judgment
witl, a direction that no recovery be allowed for either
year. 85 Okla. 38. That court treated the leases for
both years as'void; but construed and applied a statute
of the State as in effect requiring that the leases be regarded as creating a tenancy at will and controlling the
amount which the plaintiff was entitled to demand and
receive. This was done over his objection that the state
statute, so construed and applied, was in conflict with the
congressional restrictions, and therefore was invalid.
The plaintiff prosecutes this writ of error. Upon his
ptition a writ of certiorari was granted, 260 U. S. 716,
but as it appears that the writ of error was well grounded,
-the writ of certiorari will be dismissed.
The power of Congress to impose restrictions on the
right of Indian wards of the United States to alien or
lease lands allotted to them in the division of the lands
of their tribe is'beyond question; and of course it is not
competent for a State to enact or give effect to a local
statute which disregards those restrictions or thwarts their
purpose. Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286,
316; Monson v. Simonson,.231 U. S. 341, 347; Brader v.
James, 246 U. S. 88, 96; Mullen v. Pickens, 250 U. S.
590, 595.
An examination of the several enactments by which
Congress has restricted the leasing of Cherokee allotmaents

BUNCH v. COLE.
250

253

Opinion of the Court.

for agricultural purposes ' discloses that when the leases
in question were given the situation was as follows:
1. An adult allottee of the full blood could lease the
homestead for not exceeding one year, and the surplus
for not exceeding five years, without any approval of the
lease, but could not lease for longer periods without the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
2. Any lease not permitted by the restrictions was to be
absolutely null and void."
The permission given to lease for limited periods without approval was not intended to authorize the making
of leases which were to begin at relatively' distafit times
in the future, but only the making of such as were to
take effect in possession immediately or, what was equally
within the spirit of the permission, on the termination
of an existing lease then about to expire. United States
v. Noble, 237 U. S. 74, 82-83. And see Dowefl v. Dew, 1
Younge & Collier's C. C. 345, 357; same case on appeal,
7 Jurist, 117.
It is conceded, and we think rightly so, that the leases
for 1917 and 1918 fell outside the permission given. Both
covered the homestead as well as the surplus land; both
were made midway during the term of a like lease theretofore given and were to take effect in possession on the
expiration of that lease, nd neither was approved by the
Secretary of the Interior. Being eutside the permission,
they were, as declared in the restricting provision, "absolutely null and void."
Obviously a lease which Congress, in the exertion of its
power over land allotted to an Indian ward, pronounces
absolutely void cannot be validated or given any force by
a State; and a state statute which requires that such a
'Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, § 72, 32 Stat. 716, 726; Act April 26,
1906, c. 1876, §§ 19 and 20;,34 Stat. 137, 144; Act May 27, 1908,
c. 199, §§ 2 and 5, 35 Stat. 312.

254,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

lease be regarded as effective for any purpose is necessarily invalid in that respect." Monson v. Simonson,
supra; Mullen v. Pickens, supra.
The Supreme Court of the State, although recognizing
the invalidity of the leases under the congressional restrictions, construed and applied a statute of the State
(§3783, Rev. Laws 1910) as in effect requiring that the'
leases be-regarded as creating a tenancy at will and controlling the compensation which the allottee could demand
and the defendants should pay for the occupancy and
use of the land. We of course must treat the local statute
as intended to operate as 'that court says it does, and must
determine its validity on that basis. In that view of it,
we think the conclusion is unavoidable, that it gives force
and effect to leases which a valid enactment of Congress
declares shall be of no force or effect, and that in this
respect it must be held invalid under Article VI, cl. 2, of
the Constitution of the United States.
The state court was persuaded that its conclusion had
support in. decisions dealing with leases made between
parties entirely competent to make the m but not executed
in conformity with local laws, such as the statute of
frauds. But decisions of that class are not apposite.
These leases were made in' violation of a congressional
prohibition. They were not merely voidable at the election of the allottee, but absolutely void and not sus,ceptible of ratification by him. Nothing passed under
them and none of their provisions could be taken as a
standard by which to rpeasure the compensation to which
the allottee was entitled for the unauthorized occupancy
and use of his land.
It is not our province to enquire particularly into the
need for the protection intended to be afforded by the
restrictions, but, if it were, the need would find strong
illustration in this case; for it appears that each of the
leases was obtained for a cash rental of $75 and that when

CRAIG v. HECHT.
250

Statement of the Case.

the time arrived for assuming possession under them the
defendants readily sublet the land on terms which netted
them $890.40 in 1917 and $384.35 in 1918, the latter year
being one of pronounced drought.
Judgment reversed on writ of error.
Writ of certioraridismissed.

CRAIG v. HECHT, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 82.

Argued October 17, 1923.-Decided November 19, 1923.

1. A circuit judge, .as such, has no power to grant the writ of
habeas corpus. P. 271.
2. A final order discharging a petitioner in habeas corpus, made at
chambers by a circuit judge exercising by designation the power of
the District Court, or by a district judge, is rqviewable on appeal
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 274.
3. In an ordinary contempt proceeding the District Court has jurisdiction to decide whether the evidence established an offense within
the statute and whether the respondent was guilty as charged, and
its order sentencing him to imprisonment is reviewable by appeal,
and not by habeas corpus, which cannot be used as a substitute for
appeal, in the absence of exceptional circumstances. P. 277.
282 Fed. 138, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals reversing an order in habeas corpus which discharged
the petitioner, Craig, from custody under a commitment
issued by the District Court in a contempt proceeding.
The order of discharge was made by a circuit judge, assigned to the District Court, who directed that it be
recorded in that court.
Mr. Edmund L. Mooney, with whom Mr. George P.
Nicholson, Mr. Charles T. B. Rowe, Mr. Frank I. Tierney

