U. S. v. COFFEE EXCHANGE.
603

Syllabus.

The Commission in its report pointed out that the net
railway operating income for the seven months ending
July 31, 1922, was below the return fixed as reasonable, discarded the supposed analogy between the carload
rate and the interchangeable scrip or mileage ticket, intimated that the supposed benefit that the carrier might
get from the advance use of the money would be more
than offset by the increased expenses, and sa'd that the
question whether the scrip ticket would stimulate travel
sufficiently to meet any loss that might result must remain
a matter of speculation until an experiment was made.
After thus excluding the grounds upon which the order
could be justified the Commission held that the obvious
spirit and apparent purpose of the law required that the
experiment should be tried, and on these premises declared
that the rates resulting from the reduction of 20 per cent.
would be-" just and reasonable for this class of travel."
It seems to us plain that the Commission was not prepared
to make its order on independent grounds apart from the
deference naturally paid to the supposed wishes of Congress. But we think that it erred in reading the wishes
that originated the statute as an effective terni of the
statute that was passed, and therefore that the present
order cannot stand.
Decree affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK COFFEE AND
SUGAR EXCHANGE, INC., ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 331. Argued November 16, 1923.-Decided January 28, 1924.
1. Sales of a commodity, upon an exchange, under contracts calling
for actual delivery in the future- but which in practice are -cleared
by the processes called " matbhing" and "ringing," serve useful

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

263 U. S.

and legitimate purposes, and are legal when not abused for illegal
ends. P. 619.
2. The fact that the facilities -f such an exchange, and. the influence
of the prices there prevailing upon sales elsewhere, may have been
used by persons, not identified, in a criminal conspiracy .to cause
a rise of market prices, is no basis for a suit under the Anti-Trust
Law to enjoin the further operation of the exchange itself and its
attendant clearing house, or for a mandatory injunction to reframe
their rules. P. 620.

3. Provision of rules and regulations for the conduct of such exchanges to prevent future abuse, by others, of their lawful functions,
is a legislative, and not a judicial, office. P. 621.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Cou;t dismissing
a suit for an injunction, under the Anti-Trust Law.
Mr. James A. Fowler,Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, and Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Seymour, with whom Mr. Attorney General Daugherty,Mr.
Solicitor General Beck, Mr. Roger Shale, Mr. A. F. Myers
and Mr. DavidA. L'Esperance, Special Assistants to the
Attorney General, were on the briefs,., for the United
States.
Nothing but futures are bought and sold on the Exchange, and there are practically no deliveries made pursuant to such transactions.
The by-laws and rules controlling the Exchange and
Cleating Association are designed to promote speculative
transactions and to prevent deliveries of sugar through the
Exchange. And when contracts made upon the Exchange
are read in the light of its by-laws and rules, it is apparent
that an actual delivery is rarely, if ever, contemplated.
The 6vidence shows that the prices of sugar in the
market, both' for immediate and future delivery, are confrolled entirely by the prices upon the Exchange, although
there may be a slight difference between the " spot" price
and the price of the nearest future.

U. S. v. COFFEE EXCHANGE.
611

Argument for the United States.

Practically all of the contracts, if not every contract,
on the Exchange, are unlawful and unenforceable under
the rules laid down by this Court, and recognized by all
courts as the law governing such transactions. Irwin v.
Williar;,110 U. S. 499; Clews v. Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461;
Pearcev. Rice, 142 U. S. 28.
In a case which involves a transaction, or even a series
of transactions, between certain brokers on the Exchange,
as were the facts in Clews v. Jamieson, supra, it may be
difficult to prove that an actual delivery was not con"templated, and the presumption that a delivery was actually intended may not be overcome; but such presumption is absolutely'destroyed when it is conceded that every
contract during the day on the Exchange is of such character that no delivery could have been contemplated by
either party in the making of any of them.
Now, if such be the law relating to contracts upon the
Exchange when all of them are "hedging" transactions,
a fortiori must the same rule apply when some of the contracts for the day are made by pure speculators, as described in the answer, and all the others are hedging con-tracts. The fact that an exceedingly small proportion,
considerably less than 1 per cent., of the contracts are con-,
summated by actual deliveries can not alter the situation.
The advances in prices of "spot" and raw sugar from
February 1st to the date of the filing of the petition were
very largely, if not entirely, the result of speculative op"erations on the Exchange; and were not justified, or
caused, by the existing-or prospective-supply of, or demand for, sugar.
Counsel then discussed the functions of an exchange
and its economic effect, and the views of economists; also
legislation relating to exchanges.
Authorities relied upon by defendants--Iwin v.
Williar, 110 U. S. 499; Bibb v. Albm.n, 149 U. S. 481; Clews
v. Jamieson, 182 U. S. 461; Bond v. Hume, 243 U. S. 15:

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellees.

263 U. S.

Spring v. James, 137 App. Div. 110,-- were distinguished
upon the ground of the difference between an action between private individuals involving transactions on an
exchange and an action by the Government, representing
the public, attacking the general course of conduct of the
exchange.
In Board of Trade v. Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198
U. S. 236 (cf. Board of Trade v. O'Dell Commission (Jo.,
115 Fed. 574; Board of Trade v. Donovan Commission
Co., 121 Fed. 1012; Board of Trade v. Kinsey Co., 130
Fed. 507,) the Court first draws a distinction between a
contract to settle by paying differences at a specified time,'
and a contract where it is merely expected.that it will be
satisfied by a set-off, there being no definite understanding to that-effect. But in the present case it is shown that
all the contracts are made for the purpose of "hedging"
or by speculators, and that all are intended to be settled
by "rings " or "matching."
As supporting the Government's contentions, there were
cited: United States v. Standard Oil Co., 221 U. S. 1,
59-62; American Column Co. v. United States, 257 T. S.
377; United States v. American Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371;
United States v. Patten,226 U. S. 525; Chicago Board of
Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S. 1; Addyston Co. v. United
States, 175 U. S. 211, 241, 242.
Mr. William Mason Smith and Mr. John W. Davis for
appellees.
The bill set out no case for relief under the statutes invoked.
The bill was properly dismissed as lacking in equity.
No facts showing a conspiracy, combination or contract to
restrain trade were alleged or proved. The allegations to
that effect were mere conclusions.
The. Government's charge that no economic cause existed for the advance in sugar prices was disproved.

U. S. v. COFFEE EXCHANGE.
611

615

Opinion of the C6{irt.

Grave results would follow a forced closing of the Exchange, and the Government's purpose would undoubtedly
be defeated thereby.

The decision of this Court in ChicagoBoard of Trade v.
Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, is no precedent for the present suit.
No facts showing concerted action or collusion on the
part of the defendants to enhance prices or curtail production or restrain trade are shown.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was a petition filed by the'United States in the
District Court for the Southern District of New York
against the New York Coffee and Sugar Exchange, the
New York Coffee and Sugar Clearing Association, corporations of the State of New York, and their officers and
directors, for an injunction against the maintenance of
analleged conspiracy in violation of the Anti-Trust Act
of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, and of its supplementary Act of August 27. 1894, c. 349, 28 Stat. 570, as
amended February 12, 1913, c. 40, 37 Stat. 667. The proceeding was brought under the expediting provisions of
the Act of February 11, 1903, c. 544, 32 Stat. 823, as
,aended June 25, 1910, c. 428, 36 Stat. 854. The AttorneyGeneral having duly filed a certificate that the case was
of general public importance, notice of a motion for an
interlocutory injunction was given by the petitioner.
The corporate defendants filed an answer which by stipulation was made the answer of the individual defendints. By further stipulation the cause was submitted to
final hearing before three Circuit Judges upon petition and
answer and the affidavits which had been presented by
both sides on the motion for a preliminary injunctio.
,The petition was dismissed, and this is an appeal under
ยง 2, c. 544, of the Act.of February 11, 1903, 32 Stat. 823.

OCTOBER, TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

The sugar market of the New York Coffee and Sugar
Exchange was not organized until the great war in 1914,
when foreign sugar exchanges ceased to function. It was
intended to afford a world exchange for the purchase and
sale of sugar. It continued as an exchange until this
country engaged in the war, when it was closed by government direction. Upon the coming of peace, it opened
again and has been in operation ever since. The dealings
are chiefly in raw sugars. The contracts made are for
.future delivery. There are no "wash" sales, i. e., merely.
bets upon the market in Which it is understood between
the parties that neither is bound to deliver or accept delivery. But it is true that the sugar is not delivered except in a very small percentage of the contracts. The
contracts are settled by offsetting purchases against sales,
i. e., by "matching" as it is called, or by "ringing."
This isthe same general method of settlement as that
which prevails in grain sales for future delivery on the
Chicago Board of Trade, and is described by this Court
in Board of Trade v. Christie Grain& Stock Co., 198 U. S.
236, 247, et seq. The Sugar Clearing Association, codefendant herein with the Exchange, though a separate corporation, is under the same general management as the
Exchange and its. function is to provide a clearing house
in which such ringing settlements are made. About seventy-five per cent. of the transactions are thus cleared.
Nearly all the rest are "matched " and only a tenth to a
quarter of one per cent. of the contracts are settled by
actual delivery under the rules of the Exchange. The
prices at which raw sugar is sold elsewhere for immediate
delivery, i. e., of "spot" sales, vary very much as the
prices -for future delivery vary on the Exchange. It is
clear that the prices for futures have a direct relation to,
and effect upon, the .prices in "spot" sales. The prices of
raw sugar that prevail in the Exchange are used as a basis
for the prices of sugar in the markets of the world.

U. S. v. COFFEE EXCHANGE.
611

Opinion of the Court.

Cuba is the largest single source of raw sugar for the
United States and its crop equals or exceeds the supply
from all other sources, domestic or foreign. The petition
charges that the Exchange and the Clearing Association
are machinery for the promotion of gambling, that though
its contracts for futures on their face are for actual delivery, they really are not intended or expected by either
party to result in delivery, that the Exchange rules discourage delivery, that when in fact actual delivery is
sought, purchases are not made on the Exchange but elsewhere, that the Exchange thus puts in the hands of gamblers the means of influencing directly the prices of sugar
to be delivered and thereby of obstructing and restraining its free flow in trade between Cuba and the United
States and between the States.
The occasion for the suit was a violent fluctuation in
the price of sugar futures and as a consequence in the
price of spot sugars, during February, March and April
of 1923. The petition alleges that during this period
there was no economic justification for such a sudden and
excessive increase, but that, notwithstanding, raw sugar
at New York, May delivery, increased $3.65 to $4.07 per
cwt. between February 1st and February 8th, and thereafter gradually increased from day to day until April 16th,
when the peak of $5.97 per cwt. was reached. The effect
upon refined sugar used by the consuming public was to
increase its price for immediate delivery in New York
from $6.70 per cwt. in February to $9.30 per cwt. in
and April.
March
The petition
charges that all this was "the direct result
of a combination and conspiracy between the New York
Coffee and Sugar Exchange (Inc.), the New York Coffee
and Sugar Clearing Association (Inc.), and the officers
and members of those corporations and their clients or
principals, who, by means of purported purchases and

618

OCTOBER TERM, 1023.
Opimon of the Court.

263 U.S.

sales of sugar, have sought to establish and have established artificial and unwarranted prices, not governed by
the- law of supply and demand, bit based wholly on
speculative dealings not involvIg' the delivery of the
quantities of sugari represented thqreby, but altogether
carried on for the purpose and witli the effect of unduly
enhancing the price of sugar to the enrichment of said
defendants and their principals and to the detriment of
the public."
The prayer is that the court adjudge that the by-laws,
rules and regulations of the defendant corporations, in
so far as they relate to sugar, and the concerted action
of the individual defendants in carrying them out, show
a combination and conspiracy in violation of federal
anti-trust laws, and that the defendants and each of them
be enjoined from maintaining and operating the Sugar
Exchange and Clearing House, from publishing the prices
of raw or refined sugar in Exchange transactions as purporting to be its market price, from attempting to establish it as such in bona fide dealing in actual sugar, and
"from entering into or permitting to be entered into any
transactions on said Exchange or elsewhere involving or
purporting to involvd the purchase, sale, and delivery of
sugar, unless the person purporting to make such sale has
in his possession or under his control a supply of sugar
adequate to meet the requirements of such transaction,
and the person purchasing or purporting to purchase shall
in good faith intend to buy and pay for such sugar and
accept delivery as soon as same can be made."
The answer of, the corporate defendants denied all
charges of combination and conspiracy to increase prices
or to obstruct or restrain the free flow of commerce in
sugar, gave the history of the organization of the two
corporations, and alleged that they served a very useful
purpose in stabilizing the price of sugar by furnishing a
free market for this country and the world.

U. S. v. COFFEE EXCHANGE.
611

Opinion of the Court.

The evidence shows that te rules and organization of
the Exchange and Clearing Association are very like those
of the Chicago Board of Trade and similar, Exchanges
for the sales of commodities for future delivery. It is
true that spot sales are not encouraged and that less
actual deliveries take place in this Exchange than in
some of the Exchanges for sales of other commodities,
but actual deliveries are provided for in every contract
and may be lawfully enforced by either party.
The usefulness and legality of sales for future delivery,
and of furnishing an Exchange where under well-defined
limitations and rules the business can be carried on, have
been fully recognized by this Court in Board of Trade v.
Christie Grain & Stock Co., 198 U. S. 236, 246. Those
who have studied the economic effect of such Exchanges
for contracts for future deliveries generally agree that
they stabilize prices in the long run instead of promoting
their fluctuation. Those who deal in " futures" are divided into three classes: first, those who use them to
hedge, i. e., to insure themselves against loss by unfavorable changes in price at the time of actual delivery
of what they have to sell or buy Intheir business; second,
legitimate capitalists who, exercising their judgment as
to the conditions, purchase or sell for' future delivery.
with a view to profit based on the law of supply and
demand; and, third, gamblers or irresponsible speculators
who buy or sell as upon the turn of a card. The machinery of such an Exchange has been at times made
the means of promoting corners in the commodity dealt
in by such manipulators and speculators, thereby restraining and obstructing foreign and interstate trade. In such
instances, the manipulators subject themselves to prosecution and indictment under the Anti-Trust Act. United
States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525. But this is not to hold
that such an Exchange with the facilities it affords for
making contracts for future deliveries is itself a combina-

620

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

tion and conspiracy thus to restrain interstate and foreign trade.
There is not the slightest evidence adduced to show that
the two corporate defendants or any of their officers or
members entered into a combination or conspiracy to raise
the price of sugar. The circumstances upon which the
Government placed its case were a violent rise in the price
of sugar without any economic justification or explanation, lasting two months or more and manifesting itself
first in "futures" on the. Exchange and afterwards in the
price of refined sugar for immediate delivery. The defendants suggest that this was due to a popular misconstruction of the regular monthly report of the Department
of Commerce as to a probable shortage in the supply of
sugar during the year 1923, followed by a statement from
a, business house in Cuba, usually regarded as a reliable
source of information, that the previous estimate of the
amount of the next Cuban crop was too high by several
hundred thousand tons. Whether these circumstances
were sufficient to explain in full the violent rise in the
price of sugar, we need not discuss. The Government case
fails because there is no evidence to establish that the defendants produced or attempted to produce the disturbance of the market.
The mere fact that the defendants were operating the
Sugar Exchange and Clearing Association, even if we concede that some persons, not identified, combining and conspiring with criminal intent, used the Exchange and
Clearing Association to cause the rise in sugar prices,concessions which there is nd testimony to support,-furnishes no reason for enjoining defendants from continuing
the Exchange br for a mandatory injunction to reframe the
rules of the Exchange and the Clearing Association.
The Government contends that the prayer of the petition is justified by the decision of this Court in the case
of Chicago Board of Trade v. Otsen, 262 U. S. 1. It has

ELECTRIC BOAT CO. v. U. S.
611

Syllabus.

no application. We held there that Congress, having
found that the sales of grain for future delivery on the
Board of Trade were susceptible to speculation, maniliulation and control affecting interstate consignments of
grain, in such a way as to cause a direct burden on, and
interference with, interstate commerce therein, had power
to place such markets under federal supervision to prevent
such abuses. But nothing in the case sustains the view
that those promoting and operating such an Exchange are
themselves imposing a burden or restraint upon interstate
commerce for which they may be indicted under the AntiTrust Act, or from continuing which they may be enjoined. The Government in effect asks this Court to enforce rules and regulations for the "conduct.of the Sugar
Exchange which shall prevent the future abuse of its lawful functions. This is legislative and beyond our power.
The decree 6f the DistrictCourt is affirmed.

ELECTRIC BOAT COMPANY v, UNITED STATrES.
APPEAL FROM THE, COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 159.

Argued January 11, 14, 1924.-Decided January 28, 1924.

Where the United States, without disclosure to, it of the scope of an
application for patent, obtained by a contract with the applicant

a license, at certain rates, to manufacture and use the devices
covered by the application, and was later sued by the licensor for
its use. of' a device procured from another, which the licensor
claimed came within his application and subsequent patent, held:
(a) That the Government was not estopped from showing, by attendant facts and circumstances, that the contract was not intended
by the parties to. apply to the device so used, and (b) that a
judgment of the Court of Claims, so limiting the contract, upon
facts found, was not erroneous as a matter of law. P. 627.

7 Ct. Clms. 4ยง7, affirmed.

