NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
361

365

Syllabus.

the United States are assets in fhe hands of the State
to be used for the, specified purposes as it deems best.
See State v. Callvert, 34 Wash. 58, 61.
The rule that, where a grant to two or more persons
does not state the interest of each, their estates are presumed to be equal,2 does not apply. Under the act of
Congress, it was competent for the legislature of Washington to authorize county commissioners to expend the
money for public schools and public roads. Equal division
-annually between the two purposes is not required or
contemplated by the act. The appellee has no standing
to object to the distributions made by the county commissioners.
The decree appealed from is reversed.
STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA v. STATE OF MINNESOTA.
IN EQUITY.
No. 10, Original. Argued January 3, 4, 1921; restored to docket and
ordered that supplemental proofs be taken, April 18, 1921; Argued
March 12, 13, 1923.-Decided December 10, 1923.
1. Where a State, by changing the method of draining surface
water from lands within her border, increases the flow. of an
interstate stream greatly beyond its natural capacity, so that the
water is thrown upon. farms in another State, the latter State has
such an interest, as quasi-sovereign, in the comfort, health and
prosperity of her farm-owners that resort may be had by her to
the original jurisdiction of this Court, for relief by injunction,
against the State causing the injury. P. 372.
2. In a suit of that character, the burden upon the,,plaintiff State of
sustaining her allegations is much greater than that imposed upon
the plaintiff in an ordinary suit between private parties. P. 374.
'Loring v. Palmer, 118 U. S. 321, 341; Lee v. Wysong, 128 Fed.
833, 838; Keiuper v. Mette, 239 Ill. 586,-592; Campau v. Campau,
44 Mich. 31, 34; Hill v. Reiner, 167 Mich. 400, 402.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Complainant.

-263 U. S.

3.In view of the Eleventh Amendment, a claim for money damages,
made by a State on behalf of her individual citizens, against
another State, is beyond the original jurisdiction of this Court.
P. 374.
4. The evidence in this case shows that floods in the Bois de Sioux
River, resulting in inundations of riparian farm lands in North
Dakota, were caused by excessive rainfalls during a series of years,
rather than by drainage operations conducted'by Minnesota, and
fails to sustain the peculiar burden resting on North Dakota to
prove her allegations to the contrary. Pp. 376, 386.
Bill dismissed without prejudice.

TIS was a suit brought originally in this Court by the
State of North Dakota to enjoin the State of Minnesota
from continuing to use a system of drainage ditches constructed by the latter State, and for money compensation
for damage to North Dakota farmers caused by overflows
of the Bois de Sioux River, attributed by the plaintiff to
the construction and operation of the ditches. The
plaintiff also sought damages for destruction of public
roads, bridges, etc., caused by the overflows. See also
256 U. S. 220. In the following gummaries of argument
no attempt is made to incorporate discussion of the facts.

Mr. H. M. Bqutelle, with whom Mr. William Langer,
Attorney General of the State of North Dakota, Mr. John
Lind and -Mr.L C. Pinkney were on the briefs, for complainant3l

The right to maintain this suit is established by Georgia
v. Tennessee Copper Co.,206 U. S.230; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125;, MissouH v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208;
In re Debs, 158 U. S.564.
The citizen is remediless, unless redress of his wrongs
may be invoked by his State.
The rules established by the common law are applicable
in controversies between States. kansas v. Colorado,
'Mf. Sveinbjom Jbhn on, Attorney, General of the State of North
Dakota, was "bs6 on the briefs filed upon -the second argument.

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
365

Argument for Complainant.

supra; s.e. 266 U. S. 46; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Call Pub. Co., 181 U. S.92.
The doctrine of state equality is inconsistent with the
contention of Minnesota in this case, which presupposes
that that State may adopt such measures as it sees fit
for the improvement of its domain and the welfare of its
citizens, regardless of the consequences to neighboring
commonwealths or their citizens. Kansas v. Colorado,
supra; Sylvester v. Washington, 215 U. S. 80; Rickey.,
Land Co. v.Miller & Lux, 218 U. S.258; Bean v. Morris,
221 U. S. 485; Marshall Dental Mfg. Co. v. Iowa, 226
U. S.460.
Minnesota has no legal right to appropriate or use
international watercourses in any manner unreasonably
taxing their capacity, to the injury of others whose rights
therein are coequal with her own. Kansas v. Colorado,
supra; Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507; Howard v.
Ingersoll, 13 How. 381; Head v.,Amoskeag Mfg. Co., 113
U. S. 9; United States v. Rio Grande Co., 174 U. S. 690.,
The case of the complainant may be broadly rested on
those rights which are the natural incidents of its proprietary status, as owner of lands bordering 'a natural
watercourse, and, -equally on the right to preserve the
natural conditions of the stream.
On the extent to which a natural watercourse may be
employed by an upper proprietor for his own purposes,
see: II Farnum, Waters & Water Rights, § 186; Jackman
v. Arlington Mills, 137 Mass. 277; Noonan v. Albany, 79
N. Y. 470;'McCormick v. H6ran, 81 N. Y. 86; Walshe v.
Dwight Mfg. Co., 178 Ala. 310; O'Brien v. St. Paul, 18
Minn. 182; Baldwin v. Ohio Township, 70 Kans. 102;
Gibbs v. Williams, 25 Kans. 214; Walker v. New Mexico
Ry., 165 U. S. 593; Grant v. Kuglar, 81 Ala. 637; Tillotson v.Smith, 32 N.,H. 90; Mayor v.-Appold, 42 Md. 442;
Hyatt v. Albro, 121 Mich. 638; Oregon Iron Co. 'v.
Trullenger, 3 Ore, 1; McKee v. Delawqre Canal Co., 125
N. Y. 353.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Complainant.

263 U:S.

While the decisions of Minnesota are in no wise controlling in the present controversy, it may be observed
that the courts of that State have. been on both sides of
the proposition involved, starting with full recognition of
the common law principles, and ending by repudiating the
cpmmoh law for a peculiar doctrine. See O'Brien. v. St.
Paul, 18 Minn. 182; Hogenson v. St. Paul, etc. Ry., 31
Minn. 224; Olson v. St. Paul, etc. Ry., 38 Minn. 419;
Jordan v. St, Paul, etc. Ry., 42 Minn. 172; Rowe v. St.
Paul, etc. Ry., 41 Minn. 384; Sheehan v. Flynn, 59 Minn.
436; Gifillan v. Schmidt, 64 Minn. 29; Wiclstrom v.
Board of County Commrs., 98 Minn. 89; Erhardt v.
Wagner, 104 Minn. 258; Hartle v. Neighbauer, 142
Minn. 438.
Complainant is entitled to an injunction restraining the
further continuance of the trespass. Cruikshank v. Bidwell, 176 U. S. 73; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466; Franklin
Tel' Co. v. Harrison,145 U. S.459; Watson v. Sutherland,
5' Wall. 74; Kilbourn v. Sunderland, 130 U. S.505; Walla
Walla v. Walla Walla.Water Co., 172 U. S.1.
The jurisdiction in equity, having attached, will be
retained to administer all relief which the nature of the
case demands as necessary to a final determination of all,
matters in issue. United States v. Union Pac. Ry. Co.,
160 U. S. 1; I Pomeroy, Eq. Jur., 3d ed., § 181; Lynch v.
Metropolitan,etc. Ry. Co., 129 N. Y. 274.
Complainant is entitled to the restoration of the natural
conditions.
That complainant is entitled to a decree for damages
has been sufficiently indicated in the authorities already
cited; though the principle on which these damages are to
be ascertained, in a case of this character, is not free from
difficulty.
While the measure of damages adopted in private cases
may appear both unreasonable and inadequate for determining the redress to which a State is entitled for trespass

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA:
365

369

Argument for Defendant.

on its domain, there is no other known rule to which
recourse may be had. It is necessarily assumed that the
general theory of compensatory damage will be applied.
But the complainsnt does not concede either the propriety or reasonableness of this rule. Its technical limitations would not be regarded as controlling diplomatic
negotiations.
The local rules prevailing in the States involved, are
not controlling.
In addition to the damages to farm-owners, there is the
matter of the public damage in the destruction of roads,
bridges, culverts and miscellaneous improvements in the
flooded area aggregating $7,280. Also a negligible item
of loss of taxes by abatement, which needs not be considered.
Mr. John E. Palmer and Mr. Egbert S. Oakley, Assistant Attorney General, with whom Mr. Clifford L. Hilton,
Attorney General, of the State of Minnesota, and Mr.
Montreville J. Brown, Assistant Attorney General,' were
on the briefs, for defendant.1
The Eleventh Amendment withdrew from the judicial
power of the United States every suit at law or in equity
commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States
by a citizen of another State, -and prohibits this Court
from exercising jurisdiction of a cause in which one State
seeks relief against another State on behalf of its citizens
ina matter in which the State prosecuting has no interest
of its own. New Hampshire v. Louisiana,and New York
v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76; Louisianav. Texas, 176 U. S. 1.
The rule laid down in these cases is -applicable to the
case before us, in so far as the recovery of damages is
concerned. In that aspQct, it is a suit by these landowners, and the State is simply lending the use" of its
"Upon the second hearing, the case was argued b'y Mr.' Brown on
behalf of the defendant.
74308°-24-----24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendant.

263 U. S.

name. This rule was in no way modified by Georgia v.
Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230; Missouri v. Illinois,
180 U. S. 208; and Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125.
North Dakota is not entitled to equitable relief.
If the common law rule is applicable, we contend that
Minnesota, has a right to rid its lands of surface water even
though in so doing injury may result to the lands of a
neighboring. State. The gist of the rule is that no legal
right of any kind can be claimed jure'naturaein the flow
of surface water, so that neither its detention, diversion
,nor repulsion is an actionable injury, even though damage
ensue. Walker v. New Mexico, etc., By. Co., 165 U. S.
593; Bowlsby v. ,Speer, 31 N. J. L. 351; Baltzeger v.
Carolina Midland 1R. R. Co., 54 S. Car. 242; Hoyt v.
Hudson, 27 Wis. 656. Minnesota relieves its lands of the
common enemy-surface water-and, if it is east upon
the lands of complainant,-it is for complainant to get rid
of it as best it can.
Under the decisions of North Dakota, surface water
may be cast into a natural water course or drain-way,
even though by so doing the flow is so accelerated as to
cause the flooding of lands lower down; and the owner of
such lands has no right of action. Soules v. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co., 34 N. D. 7; McI enry County v. Brady,
37 N. D. 59.
Nort4 Dakota in adopting this rule seems to have followed the courts of other jurisdictions. Williams v. Gale,
(Md.) 3 H. & J. 231; Miller v. Laubach, 47 Pa. St. 154;
Foot'v. Bronsdn, 4 Lans. 47; Fenton & Thompson R. R.
C. V. Adams, 221 Ill. 201.
Complainant is in no position to object to the application of the rule which its court has adopted for the deternination of disputes between its citizens and between its'
citizens and municipalities and the citizens and municipalities of a foreign State. IhKansas v. Colorado, supra,
this Cort applied-the rule of law which had be n adopted

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
365

Opinion of the Court.

by the supreme court of the complaining State. We
submit that the same course might properly be followed
in the case at bar.
The common law as to surface water is in force in
Minnesota, except tht it is modified to the extent that
one must so use his -own as not unnecessarily or unreasonably to injure his neighbor. Under, this rule it is the duty
of an owner draining his land to deposit surface water in.
some natural drain if one is reasonably accessible; and he
may do so even though it is thereby conveyed upon the
land of his neighbor, if he does not unreasonably injure
him. A circumstance which the Minnesota court considers in determining what is a reasonable use of one's own
land under this rule is the amount of benefit to his land,
as compared with the amount of injury to his neighbor's
land, by reason of casting the burden of the surface water
upon it. Sheehan v. Flynn, 59 Minn. 436; Gilfllan v.
Schmidt, 64 Minn. 29; Hartle v. Neighbauer, 142
Minn: 438.
It cannot be successfully contended that Minnesota has
violated its own rule in draining surface water by means
of its system of ditches, although the lands of North
Dakota are subjected to injury as claimed.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a bill in equity exhibited by the State of North
Dakota against the State of Minnesota. The bill avers
that the latter State has, by constructing cut-off ditches
and straightening the Mustinka River, increased the speed
and volume of its flow into. Lake Traverse, and thereby
raised the level of the Lake, causing its outlet, the Bois de
Sioux River, to overflow and greatly to injure a valuable
farming area in North Dakota lying on the west lank of
that stream. The damage to the complainant in destruction of roads and bridges is alleged to be $5,000, and the

372.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

damage to owners of the farms in destruction of crops and
injury to the arable quality of their land, to be more than
a million dollars. A further allegation is that the ditch
is likely at every period of high water to cause overflows
as injurious as those complained of. The prayer is for an
order enjoining the continued use of the ditches and a
decree against the State of Minnesota for the damages
sustained by the complaifiint State and its farmers.
Minnesota in her answer admits the construction of the
ditches for drainage and sanitation, but denies that they
caused the overflow complained of, and avers that the
flooding was due to unusual rainfall in the successive years
of 1914, 1915 -and 1916.
One owning land on a watercourse may by ditches and
drains turn into it all the surface water that would naturally drain there, but-he may not thus discharge into the
watercourse more water than it has capacity'to carry, and
thus burden his lower neighbor with more than is reasonable. In such cases, the injured party is entitled to an
injunction. Jackman v. Arlington Mills, 137 Mass, 277;
McKee v. Delaware Canal Co., 125 N. Y. 353; Noonan v.
Albany, 79 N. Y. 470; McCormick v.. Horan, 81 N. Y. 86;
Merritt v. Parker, 1 N. J. L. 460; Tillotson v. Smith, 32
N. H. 90; Mayor v. Appold, 42 Md. 442; Baldwin v. Ohio
Township, 70 Kans. 102; II Farnftm on Waters, § 488,
p. 1633; Gould on Waters, § 274.
If one State by a drainage system turns into an interstate river water in excess of its capacity, and floods its
banks in another State and thus permanently and seriously injures valuable farm lands there, may the latter
State have an injunction in this Court?
The jurisdiction and procedure of.this Court in controversies betveen States of -the Union differ from those
which it pursues in suits between private parties. This
grows out of the history of the creation of the power, in
that it was conferred by the Constitution as a substitute

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
365

373

Opinion of the Court.

for the diplomatic settlement of controversies between
sovereigns and a possible resort to force. The jurisdiction
is therefore limited generally to disputes which, between
States entirely independent, might be properly the subject
of diplomatic adjustment. They must be suits "by a
State for an injury to it in its capacity of quasi-sovereign.
In that capacity the State has an interest indepemident of
and behind the titles of its citizens, in all"the earth and
air within its domain." "When the States by their union
made' the forcible abatement of outside nuisances impossible to each, they did not thereby agree to submit to
whatever might be done. They did not renounce the
possibility of making jeasonable demands on. thc ground
of their still remaining quasi-sovereign interests; and the
alternative to force is a suit in this court." Georgia v.
Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237. In accord .with
this principle, this Court has 'entertained a suit by one
State to enjoin the deposit by another State, in an interstate stream, of drainage containing noxious typhoid
germs because dangerous to the health of the inhabitants
of the former. Missoi~ri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208, 241;
s. c. 200 U. S. 496, 518. It has assumed jurisdiction to
hear and determine a bill to restrain one State from a
diversion of water from an interstate stream by which the
lands of a State lower down on the stream may be deprived of the use of its water for irrigation in. alleged
violation of the right of the lower State. Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125, 141, 143; *s.-c. 206 U. S. 46, 95. In
Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419, 464, it granted relief
to one State to prevent another from diverting water frdm
an interstate stream to the injury of rights acquired
through prior appropriations of the water by land owners
of the former State under the. doctrine of appropriation
recognized and administered in both States. In Georgia:
v. Tennessee Copper.Co., supra, it enjoined in behalf of a
State the generation and spread of noxious fumes by a

374'

OCTOBER TERM, 1923
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

factory in another State becaus6 it was a public nuisance
in destroying crops and forests within the borders of the
former State. In Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262
U. S. 553, 592, at the suit of one Stae, this Court has
enjoined another State from enforcing its statute by which
the flow of natural gas in interstate commerce from the
latter State was forbidden, to the threatened loss and
suffering of the people of the suingState who had become
dependent for comfort and health upon its use. It needs
no argument, in the light of these authorities, to reach the
conclusion that, where one State, by a change in its
fmethod of draining water from lands within its border,increases the flow into an interstate stream, so that its
natural capacity is greatly exceeded and the water is'
thrown upon the farms of another State, the latter State
has such an interest as quasi-sovereign in the 'comfort,
health and prosperity of its farm owners that resort may
be had to this Court for*relief. It is the creation of a
public nuisance of simple type for which a -State may
properly ask an injunction.
In such action by one State against another, the Durden
on the complainant State of sustaining the allegations of
its complaint is much greater than that imposed upon a
complainant in an'ordinary suit between private parties.
"Before this court can be moved to exercise its extraordinary power under the, Constitution to control the c6nduct
of one State at th6 suit of another, the threatened invasion
df right must be of serious magnitude and it must be
established by clear and convincing evidence." New
York v. New Jersey, 256 U. S. 296, 309; Missouri v. Illinois, 20aU. S. 496, 521.
North Dakota, in addition to an injunction, seeks a
decree:against Minnesota for damages of $5,000 for itself
-and of:a million dollars for its inhabitants whose farms
weri injured and-whose. crops were lost. It is difficult to
see howwe can grant a decree in favor of North Dakota

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
365

Opinion of the Court.

for the benefit of individuals against the State of Minnesota in view of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution, which forbids the extension of the judicial power of
the United States to any suit in law or equity prosecuted
against any one of the United States by citizens of another
State or by citizens and subjects of a foreign State. The
evidence discloses that nearly all the Dakota farm owners
whose crops, lands and property were injured in these
floods, contributed to a fund which has been used to aid
the preparation and prosecution of this cause. It further
appears that each contributor expects to share in the
benefit of the decree for damages here sought, in proportion to the amount of his loss. Indeed it is inconceivable
that North Dakota is prosecuting this damage feature of
its suit without intending to pay over what it thus re-covers to those entitled. The question of the power of
this Court in such a case was very fully considered in New
Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S.76. There citizens of
one State held bonds of another State, payment of which
was in default. The holders assigned the bonds to their
State, which, as assignee, brought an action in this Court
to recover a decree for the amount due, against the obligor
in the bonds. The law of the suing State authorizing the.
suit provided that on recovery the money should be turned
over to the assignors, less the expenses of the litigation.'
Recovery was held to be forbidden by the Eleventh
Amendment and the bill was dismissed. It was argued
tLat as a sovereign the State might press the claims of
its citizens against another State, but it was answered by
this Court that such right of sovereignty was parted with"
by virtue of the original Constittition in which, as a; substitute therefor, citizens of one State were permitted to
sue another State in their own names, and that when the
Eleventh Amendment took away this individual right, it
did not restore the privilege of state sovereignty to press
such claims. The right of a State as parens patriae to

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

bring suit to protect the general comfort, health, or property rights of its inhabitants threatened by the proposed
.or continued action of another State, by prayer for injunction, is to be differentiated from its lost power as a sovereign to present and enforce individual claims of its
citizens as their trustee against a sister State. For this
reason the prayer for a money decree. for the damage done
by the floods of 1915 and 1916 to the farms of individuals*
in the Bois de Sioux Valley, is denied, for lack of jurisdiction.
Having thus pointed out the rules of law which must
cont-ol our conclusion, we come to consider 'the much
disputed issues of fact upon which our decision as to the
injunction prayed turns.
'The boundary line between South Dakota and North
Dakota on the west, and Minnesota on the east, runs
through the middle of Lake Traverse and thence north by
the channel of the Bois de Sioux River until that river
joins the Otter Tail River to make the Red River of the
North. Lake Traverse lies in a basin between Minnesota
and South Dakota- The east and west line between the
two Dakotas is some five miles north of the point of
discharge of the Lake into the Bois de Sioux. The basin
is the bed of an ancient .lake formed by glacial action.
The present lake reaches from southwest to northeast,
has an average width of more than two miles and is with
its extended ponds and swamps about twenty miles long.
To the south ithas high rocky banks and is a real lake.
As-it extends toward the north, it is divided into smaller
lakes or ponds or sloughs: by deltas from entering streams.
The Mustinka River reaches the Lake at its northern end
just beyond the region of -its high banks and makes a
delta" walling off Mud Lake. The Bois de-Sioux flows
north and is a sluggish stream, with low i-rarshy banks
for fifteen miles to a point opposite. where the Rabbit
River enters from the Minnesota side. Beyond that, its

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
365

Opinion of the Court.

banks grow higher. It flows down the eastern side of its
basin so that the Minnesota low lands on its bank are of
small area.
The watershed for Lake Traverse and the Bois de Sioux
as far as the'mouth of the Rabbit River, but not including
the watershed of that river, is 1442 square miles, of which
924 miles are in Minnesota and 518 miles are in the
Dakotas. Of the 924 miles of Minnesota watershed, 131
miles drain directly into the lake, and 793 miles drain
through the Mu-tinka. Of these, the drainage from 105
miles enters below the ditches and tributaries which play
any part in our problem. It will thus be seen that the
drainage into the Lake and the Bois de Sioux from the
Mustinka River and the ditches, here under consideration,
is from a watershed of 688 miles, or something less than
fifty per cent. of the whole watershed by the run-off from
which the basin of the Bois de Sioux in 1915 and 1916
was overflowed. The Mustinka watershed extends northeast from Lake, Traverse across a level-prairie country,
embracing much of Traverse County and part of Grant
County, Minnesota, until it reaches on the east, north
and south a much higher level of hills and holloWs with
lakes and standing pools called in this case the Moraine
Zone. The trend of the Mustinka River bed upwards
from the Lake is at first to the northeast some twenty odd
miles to a point where' Twelve Mile Creek enters the river
from the south, thence easterly several miles to where
.Five Mile Creek enters the river also from the south.
Above this point, the river is known as the Upper
Mustinka. Of 'these three constituents, Twelve Mile.
Creek is the dominant stream, draining 364 'miles, or 54
per cent. 6f the whole Mustinka watershed. Five Mile
Creek drains 121 square miles, or 16% per cent., while
the Upper'Mustia drains 203 square miles, or 29 per
cent. The Upper Mustinka is a winding, crooked stream
with bAnks not always well defined, and with a fall in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

channel of 2.25 feet to the mile. Five Mile Creek is less
crooked but with low banks easily overflowed and a slope
of five feet in the mile. Twelve Mile Creek has a slope
in its channel of 22% feet for 9 miles and 114 feet in the
next three. It has higher banks than the others and a
more marked channel and rarely overflows.
The original Mustinka Ditch was intended to drain
farm lands in Grant County east of Traverse County, and
was builtbefore 1900 from a point in the Upper Mustinka
near the town of Norcross in a westerly direction along
the valley of that stream some seven miles, cutting off its
curves and crossing the Five Mile Creek south of its confluence with the Mustinka and emptying at right angles
into Twelve Mile Creek. There was a great flood due to
a succession of wet years in 1906 and 1907. The farmers
in the lower watersheds of the Five Mile and Twelve Mile
creeks concluded that the State Ditch, as it was called,
was the cause of the flooding and in a petition they asked
the Legislature by further work to relieve them from
danger of future overflows. The Legislature was thus
induced to pass an Act in 1911 containing a preamble, on
the recital of which North Dakota strongly relies to support its case as admissions of Minnesota. The preamble
recited that the ditch constructed before 1900 to drain
lands in Grant County had in crop seasons of several yeats
caused the flooding of 8,000 acres of farm land in Traverse
County'never before overflowed, to the damage of farmers
in that county of $28,000, and had created 'a condition
dangerous to the health of the inhabitants. The act
then ptoceeds to authorize the expenditure of $35,000 by
the State Drainage Commissioners to remedy the situation. The money was expended in the building of a cutoff ditch two miles and a half in length, which continued
the old ditch at right angles across the Twelve Mile Creek
to the main channel of the Mustinka, and also in the
straightening of the river from the mouth of the cut-off

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA:
365

Opinion of the Court.

to the lake, a distance of some fifteen miles. The bend
in the Mustinka which the new ditch cut off was about
seven miles long, thus saving some five miles in flow of
the water. The straightening of the river below the
cut-off shortened the river's 'course from that point to the
lake three miles. Half way down to the lake, the river
runs by the town of Wheaton, near which in 1916 there
was, notwithstanding these improvements, a wide and
prolonged overflow of its banks.
The evidence in the case consisted, first, of the testimony of farmers in the overflow region in the valley of
the Bois de Sioux, as to the extent of the flood and their
losses in 1915 and '1916; second, of farmers in the
Mustinka, watershed as to the floods of 1915 and 1916
and the effect in'their neighborhood, and, third, of expert
engineers and A geologist as to the part played by the
ditches in these floods.
The engineers who were called by North Dakota said
that the immediate cause of overflow was the maintenance
in Lake Traverse of a high water level of 977 feet above
the sea during part of the summer of 1915 and all of 1916,
that this was three feet above the mesne Lake level of 974
feet, that the last foot or more of this rise was caused by
the state ditching of the Mustinka, which prolonged the
floods two summer seasons. One of these witnesses,
Ralph, who had been state drainage engineer, first of
Minnesota and then of North Dakota, and who seems to
have been employed to prepare the case for the -latter
State, says that the ditching on the Mustinka raised the
lake from one to one and a half feet in 1916. Dean
Shenehon, another engineer expert says that when the.
lake is at a mesne height of 974, the Minnesota ditches are
responsible for a permanent increase in the level of from
three to six inches, say four inches, and that in time of
flood when the lake rises to 977, the ditches account for
en inches. The varying lestimates of these two principal

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

witnesses for North Dakota do not seem to rest on definitely ascertained data. We have no government or other
gaugings of the flow from the Mustinka into the lake
before the cut-off was completed in 1915. The first of
such gaugings was taken near Wheaton in March, 1916.
The cubic feet of flow into the Lake from the Mustinka
before the cut-off ditch was constructed, is therefore a
matter of judgment rather than calculation, dependent on
the probable run-off during the period of floods from the
watershed, the extent of 'detaining basins that then existed, the possible evaporation under then conditions, the
cross, sections of the present ditches compared with probable cross sectionsof the channel of the old riVer as it was
before the ditches and the straightening of the river, and
the extent to which it then overflowed its banks in time
of flood. Most of these factors and their effect were a
matter of unsatisfactory estimate in the absence of actual
gaugings and measurements of the flow into the Lake from
the old Mustinka in a state of nature. The situation was
indeed complex, as Dean Shenehon expressed it. He said
he could no t say definitely how large a detaining basin
was destroyed by the new work. He left the subject with
this general statement:
"I looked over that country and in my judgment all
that complex of cut-off canals and state ditches and improved Mustinka River from the outlet of the cut-off to
Lake Traverse and the laterals or ditches entering it in
my judgment incrieased the run-off of water in flood conditions substantially fifty per cent.
I have viewed
the conditions, and in my judgment as an engineer, which
is the best judgment I can give you, the run-off is fifty
per cent greater than in a state of&nature."
Having thus reached the proportion of increase, the
witness's estimate was that the flow into the lake from
the Mustinka in a state of nature was 1600 cubic second
feet and that the ditching by the State added 800 cubic

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
365

381

Opinion of the Court.

feet. and that increase accounted for maintenance of the
high lake level and the continuous flood complained of.
This conclusion was largely dependent on the assumption that there was what Ralph called the Delta Zone
covering from seventy to one hundred square miles lying
immediately east of Twelve Mile Creek and extending
east toward the Upper iVMustinka and north beyond the
line of the cut-off and old ditch. Both Ralph and
Shenehon mnaintained that this was a low, moist, marshy
region, with a rim which acted as a retaining basin for
the overflowed waters of the confluence of the three
Mustinka constituent streams, and that the cut-off, by
draining this, prevented the former heavy loss by evaporation, accelerated the flow and increased the volume of the
water carried down to the lale by one-half, and would give
every recurring flood the same effect.
Ralph also insisted that in the state of nature before
the ditching, whenever there was high water in the
Mustinka, the water flowed north over a ridge or low
height of land into the sources of the Rabbit River in
Tintah Slough, that thus a very considerable amount was
carried directly to the Bois de Sioux basin, some fifteen
miles north of the Lake, and that by this diversion, the
level of the Lake was kept lower. Now, he said, the
cut-off made this diversion negligible and of course added
to the flow into the Lake. The weight of. the evidence,
however, is that it has only been when the level of the
Mustinka River at the confluence with the Twelve Mile
Creek exceeds the height of 998 feet above the sea, that
it has flowed into the Rabbit River, that it reached this
height during the summers of 1915 and 1916, and that
then the same amount of water flowed over into the
Rabbit Creek as formerly. While in a general way Ralph
was corroborated by Dean Shenehon and Professor
Chandler, another expert witness, neither of these at-

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

tached much importance to the part played by the diversion into the Rabbit River from the Mustinka either
before or after the state ditching works.
The case for North Dakota was much weakened by the
weight of. evidence showing that the great detaining basin
in the so-called Delta Zone was non-existent. The testimony of three engineering experts and a geologist called
by Minnesota., who examined the watershed, as well as
the numerous farmers and oldtime residents who lived on,
and successfully cultivated, all of the Delta Zone, was
convincing to show that the land was ordinary prairie land
with an inclination to the north and northwest of five feet
in a mile down -o the-Mustinka, and without any rim or
rising border to make a detaining basin. The slope of the
Zone was said by one competent witness to be greater than
that of much of the fertile prairie lands of Illinois. There
were only two places in the neighborhood which 'could
bedescribed as possible detaining basins. One was the
Redpath Slough which yields wild hay in a dry season
and covers an area of six or seven square miles. The
other was Tintah Slough, a basin of like character, already
referred to as one of the sources of the Rabbit River and
not in the Mustinka watershed.
The testimony adduced by the defendant State tended
to show that'the new cut-off which had been constructed
to.avoid floods in this region in high water was not regarded as effective by those who had pressed for its construction, because in times of flood their lands were overflowed apparently as much as before. There was substantial evidence that the cut-off did not run full in times
.of the highest water, because of the obstruction from the
onrush af such times of the- Twelve Mile Creek -at right
angles across the union of the old and new ditches. The
Twelve Mile Creek thus dominated the ditches to such an
extent that it carried milch of its water north to its old
confluenAce with the Upper Mustinka, and round the old

NORTH DAKOTA v. MIN4ESOTA.
365

383

Opinion of the Court.

bend of that stream of six or seven miles. The result, as
estimated by Minnesota's witnesses, was that the old bend
at the crest of the flood carried twice as much water as
the cut-off.
Professor Bass for Minnesota testified that at the time
of flood it took nine hours for the water by way of the
cut-off from Twelve Mile Creek to reach the Lake and
thirteen hours by way of the old Bend, and his estimate
was that before the cut-off was built it would have taken
eighteen hours. This would seem to indicate that the
difference in speed of flow into the Lake made by the
new cut-off in a flood which lasted all summer would
be negligible in effect. Doubtless the ditches of the
Mustinka helped to carry the water into the Lake faster
than before they were constructed, "but a speedier flow of
the same amount of water would in an entire summer of
flood have but little effect on the height of the lake, or
the overflow in its outlet through the Bois de Sioux
Valley. Mr. Meyer and Mr. Morgan, witnesses for
Minnesota, and both .engineers of great experience in
floods,, say that a more rapid flow into a lake with an
outlet will not raise the level of the lake as high as a
slower inflow because the more rapid the inflow the
greater the opportunity for outflow during the period of
rising.
An additional factor of the high water on the banks of
the Bois de Sioux in time of flood, as pointed out by Professor Bass, was in the railroad embankments and county
roads crossing the whole slough-like basin of the Bois de
Sioux. 'These with their limited outlets, he thought,
served to dam the flooded river in its sluggish flow. He'
also called attention to the obstruction by the back-water
from the discharge of the Rabbit River which delivered
itself with -such force as to throw gravel and debris over
to the opposite bank of the Bois de Sioux. "Professor Bass
relied on special measurements made for the purpose by

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U: S.

a competent engineer, of the capacity of the Bend, the
Twelve Mile Creek, and the old ditch and the new cutoff, as well as that of the straightened river between the
cut-off and the Lake, the extent of the flooding half way
down the river tothe Lake near Wheaton and the basin
of the Bois de Sioux. He testified that when the Lake
was at the highest flood level, the added and more rapid
flow due to the ditches did not increase this more than
two inches and was negligible in creating a flood in the
Bois de Sioux.
A marked difference between the evidence of the experts for the complainant and of those for the defendant
was in respect to the effect they attributed to the rainfall
in 1914, 1915 and 1916. Those for North Dakota insisted
that in neither 1915 nor 1916 was there the exceptional
rainfall to produce the unusual flood in the Bois de Sioux
Valley and that this was a significant. fact in support of
the view that the exceptional overflow in that valley was
due to the artificial cut-off and the straightening of the
Mustinka River bed. This contention was met and -completely overcome by the Government records ahd other
evidence of the rainfall and floods in 1915 and1916 in the
whole upper Red River Valley. Th evidence satisfactorily establishes the fact to be that the flood in 1915 and
that in 1916 exceeded any flood in that region for a succession of years since 1881. Great floods seem to have
occurred about every ten years and to have been the result
of excessive precipitation for three successive years. One
was in 1881. Another of these was in the period of 1895,
1896 and 1897. Another was in the period of 1905, 1906
and 1907, and a third was in the period of 1914, 1915 and
1916. The last two were greater than the second. ' There
was a run-off all over the upper Red River Valley in the
year 191.6 greater than in any period preceding since 1902.
There were heavy rains in 1914, so that in Qctober there
whs an accumulated excess of 3.54 inches. In 1915 the

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
365

Opinion of the Court.

excess continued to grow until in October of that year
there was an excess of 7.94 inches. Winter came on when
the waters were at flood and froze them, so that the spring
freshets of 1916 were very heavy and these were succeeded
by heavy precipitation in June and July, so that by the
fall of 1916 there was an excess of 16.15 inches. The flood
was thus continuous during the whole summer season of
that year. There was no opportunity to plant in the Fall
of 1915 because it was so wet, and in 1916 cultivation was
impossible. The soil was described as mush. The farmers of all that region, not only in the valley of the Bois
de Sioux but in the Mustinka watershed and elsewhere
in the upper valley of the Red River, had only a third
or half of a crop in 1915, and in 1916 there was no crop
at all, due to excessive and continuous ramn.
It is not contended on behalf of the complainant that
the damage from the floods of 1915 and 1916 in the Bois
de Sioux was due to the higher flood line reached in those
years so much as to the prolonged period during which
the waters lay on the flooded area. It is admitted that
such freshets were to be expected in the spring from time
to time, but it is said that previously they had only lasted
from three to eight days, and that the water receded,
leaving the land on the banks of the Bois de Sioux cultivable and productive in the proper season. We can not
fail to note, however, that this strip half a mile to two
miles wide and fifteen miles long, injury to which is complained of, was low and subject to overflow. There were
sloughs in it running into the Bois de Sioux and the government survey showed on the plats that 27 per cent. of
it was marshy. Much of the tract .was good farming land
except in time of excessive flood which the histoty of the
region shows, as we have said, was to be expected about
every ten years.
It is difficult for a court to decide issues of fact upon
which experts equal in number and standing differ flatly
74308*-24-----25

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

and when their conclusions rest on estimates upon the
correctness of which the court, without technical knowledge, can not undertake to pass. In such cases, the. court
looks about for outstanding facts from which the lay
mind can safely draw inferences as to the probabilities.
The court is also 'ided by its judgment of the care and
accuracy with which the contrasted experts respectively
have determined the data upon which they base their
donclusions. The experts called by Minnesota in this
case seemed to us to use more specific and accurately
ascertained data for their estimates than those for North
Dakota, and this circumstance, as well as the more satisfactory reasons givei, lead us to think that their conclusions are more to be depended on.
When we consider the extent and prolonged period of
the floods of 1915- and 1916, covering, as they did, the
whole upper valley of the Red River, of Which the Mustinka watershed was but a small part, when we note that
that watershect is only one-half of what feeds Lake Traverse, when we find that all this upper Red River valley,
was drenched with continuous rain for two summer seasons, with a frozen flood between them, when it appears
that the farmers of the Mustinka valley lost as much of
their crops in 1915 and had as total a loss in 1916 as the
farmers on the Dakota banks of the Bois de Sioux, when
*we know that these farmers in the Bois de Sioux are used
to frequent floods in the spring for three to eight days
because of the low level of their lands, the system of state
ditching in the Mustinka sinks into a circumstance of
.negligible significance in the consideration of the mighty
forces of Nature which caused these floods. To attribute
to such a minor but constant artificial incident a phenomenal effect for two Whole summer seasons without a
recurrence since is to fly in the face of all reasonable probability. The evidence must be clear and convincing indeed -to support such a theory. Instead of that it is a-

NORTH DAKOTA v. MINNESOTA.
365

Opinion of the Court.

combination of estimates, and conjecture based on no
acculrate knowledge of the flow of the Mustinka before
.the ditches were put in, and depending greatly on a hypothetical detaining basin in the so-called Delta Zone, existence of which the greater weight of the evidence negatives.
Moreover, as already pointed out, the burden of proof
that the State of North Dakota must carry in this case
is much greater than that imposed on the ordinary plaintiff in a suit between private individuals.
The possibility of saving these Bois de Sioux lands from
recurring floods, whether each year or every ten years;
by controlling and distributing the flow from the Lake
and making larget its outlet, suggests itself even to the
layman. The capacity of the present outlet is between
1200 and 1500. cubic second feet, offering too small opportunity for safe escape of the high water, of the lake which
experience shows may be expected in that region. Accordingly, after the .first hearing of this case,. without
reaching a conclusion as to the legal responsibility for
the overflow complained of, and with the thought that
the Couirt might be able to provide for a proper remedy
in its decree, it ordered a rehearing and the taking of
supplemental proof deemed necessary to an adequate consideration and disposition of the cause, as to the possibility and cost of ameliorating 'the flood conditions by
means other than the injunction prayed in the bill. [256
U. S. 220.] The order specified the projects to which the
proof should be directed as follows:
First, to a project for detaining basins in the Mustinka.
River watershed,
Second, to a sluice dam in Lake Traverse,
Third, to improvements of the Bois de Sioux outlet by
increasing its capacity,
Fourth, to making an outlet from the lake across a
height of land into Big Stone Lake which drains into the
Mississippi, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Fifth, to a larger diversion of the Mustinka River waters
into the Rabbit River.
The Court also directed proof as to the flood conditions
which had prevailed in the area claimed to have been
flooded since the filing of the bill. Three engineers were
to be called on each side.
All the remedies suggested by the Court were rejected
by the engineers of both sides as impracticable except
those of a sluice dam in Lake Traverse and, the enlarging
of the capacity of the lake .outlet through the Bois de
Sioux. The engineers for .North Dakota thought that
such an improvement could be constructed for about
$100,000, while the engineers for Minnesota insisted that
the dam and dredging provided at that cost would be a
mere temporafy and unsatisfactory makeshift and that
ampler works needed for a permanent remedy would require an expenditure of from two and a half to five times
as much. The evidence further showed that there had
been no flooding of the lands in question since the filing
of the bill, a period of six years, although there had been
a very great rainfall and large increases in the flow of
the Mustinka River in the spring of 1917 which was followed by a dry season.
The conclusion we have come, to on the main issue of
fact that Minnesota is not responsible for the floods of
which compliint is made, makes it unnecessary for. us to
consider this evidence as to a practical remedy for them,
and requires us to leave the opinions and suggestions of
the expert engineers for the consideration of the two
States in a possible effort by either or both to remedy
existing conditions in this basin.
The bill is dismissed without prejudice.
The costs were adjudged against the plaintiff.

post, p. 583.

REPORTEFa.

See

