PORTERFIELD v. WEBB.
Argument for Appellants.

PORTERFIELD ET AL. v. WEBB, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 28. Argued April 23, 24, 1923.--ecided November 12, 1923.
1. The treaty of February 21, 1911, 37 Stat. 1504, between the !United
States and Japan, does not confer upon Japanese subjects the
privilege of acquiring or leasing land 'for agricultural purposes.
P. 232. Terrace v. Thompson, ante, 17.
2. The California Alien Land Law, by permitting aliens eligible
to citizenship under the laws of the United States to acquire,
possess' enjoy and transfer real property in the State,. while permitting other aliens to exercise these rights only as prescribed by
existing treaty between the United States and their respective
countries, does not violate the equal protection clause" of the
Fourteenth Amendment, as applied to ineligible aliens who have

not such rights by treaty, or to qitizens desirous of letting their
land to such aliens. P. 232. Terrace v. Thompson, ante, 197.
279 Fed. 114, affirmed.

APPEAL from an order of the District Court denyiim'g.a
motion for a temporary injunction, in a suit brought by
appellants to enjoin appellees from enforcing the'California Alien Land Law.

Mr. Louis Marshall for appellants.
I. We may freely concede that, in conformity with the
common law, it was within the power of California 'to*
confine the ownership of land, or of an interest therein, to
citizens. Far from asserting this power, it has in its Civil
Code affirmatively recognized the right -of all aliens to
acquire real property, and by the Acts of 1913 and 1920
has recognized the right of one class of aliens without restriction of any kind to own any interest whatsoever in
California: lands, and has at the same time forbidden
another class to acquire any interest at all in realty except as permitted by treaty. This, we earnestly contend,
"[38

-- 4-

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellants.

.263 U. S.

denies to the latter that equal protection of the laws
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment "to any per-.
son within the jurisdiction of the State."
What § 1 of the Act of 1920 confers upon some aliens,
is by § 2 denied to others, solely because in one case the
aliens are white or black and in the other they are red,
yellow or brown. It is not made dependent upon character, morals, economic position, intellectual or physical
capacity, ability to increase the wealth of the State or the
value of its taxable property, or a willingness to serve the
State. It is merely the result of arbitrary selection, and
as between aliens coming from fifty different lands those
from forty are given the unqualified and unconditional
right to acquire real property or an interest in it, while
those coming from ten other countries are absolutely prohibited, under the penalty of escheat, imprisonment and
fine, from taking even a lease for a. singlk year of realty
devoted to uses other than for residential or commercial
purposes. Can this be said to constitute the equal protection of the laws? Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356;
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Ex parte Kotta, 62 Cal. Dec.
315; Ex parte Terui, 187 Cal. 20; Estate of Yano, 188
Cal. 645.
Immediately after the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment in various of the States, and especially in
California, laws were enacted directed against the Chinese
inhabitants of those States, the constitutionality of which
was passed upon in the federal courts, and in which the
Fourteenth Amendment became the rock of refuge. Ho
Ah Kow v. Nunan, 5 Sawy. 552; Re Tiburcio Parrott, 1
Fed. 481;'Re Ah Chong, 2 Fed. 733; Opinion of Justices,
207 Mass. 601.
See also: Re Ah Fong, 3 Sawy. 144; Laundry Ordinance
Case, 13 Fed. 229; Gqndolfo v. Herman, 49 Fed. 181; Re
Ty Loy, 26 Fed. 611; Re Sam Kee, 31 Fed. 681; Re Lee
Sing, 43'Fed. 359; Ex parte Sing Lee, 96 Cal. 354; Ex

PORTERFIELD v. WEBB.
225

Argument for Appellants.

parte Case, 20 Idaho, 128; Poon v. Miller, 234 S. W. 573.
Distinguishing, Heim v. McCall, 239 U. S. 175; Crane v.
New York, 239 U. S. 195.
Other alien cases to be noted are: Fraserv. McConway
& Torley Co., 82 Fed. 257; JuniataLimestone Co. v. Fagley, 187 Pa. St. 193; State v. Montgomery, 94 Me. 192;
Templar v. Board, 131 Mich. 254; Vietti v. Mackie Fuel
Co., 109 Kans. 179.
Cases. affecting, negroes under the equality clause:
Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Buchanan v. Warley,
245 U. S. 60; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Neal v.
Delaware, 103 U. S. 370; Gibson v. Mississippi, 162 U. S.
565; Williams v. Mississippi, 170 U. S. 213; Carter v.
Texas, 177 U. S. 442; Rogers v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226;
Martin v. Texas, 200 U. S. 316; Kentucky v. Powers, 201
U. S. 1, 32; McCabe v. Atchison, Topeka & S. F. Ry. Co.,
235 U. S. 151.
Other decisions under the equality clause: Railroad Tax
Cases, 13 Fed. 722; Santa ClaraCounty v. Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 18 Fed. 385; 118 U. S. 394; Gulf, Colorado
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Atchison, Topeka
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. Vosburg, 238 U. S. 56; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S. 79; Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Raymond v. Chicago Unio'n
Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Smith v. Texas, 233 U. S. 630;
Gast Realty Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55;
Royster Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412; Kansas City
Southern Ry. Co. v. Road Improvement District, 256
U. S. 658; State v. Julow, 129 Mo. 163.
II. The act is likewise unconstitutional because it deprives Porterfield, who is a citizen of the United States,
of the right to enter into contracts for the leasing of his
realty, and because it deprives Mizuno of his liberty and
property by debarring him from entering into a contract
for the purpose of earning a livelihood in a lawful occupation. Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356; Truai v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellees.

263 U. S.

Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent
City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Allgeyer v. Lotisiana, 165 U. S.
578; Smith v. Texas, 233 U. S. 630;,Coppage v. Kansas,
236 U. S. 1.
* Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General of the State of California, with whom Mr. Frank English, Deputy Attorney
.General, Mr. Thomas Lee Woolwine and Mr. Tracy C.,
Becker were on the brief,, for appellees.
I. The Alien Land Law of California does not violate
the Fourteenth Amendment.
The State has the fundamental right to prohibit alien
ownership, possession, dominion over or enjoyment of
land. The Fourteenth Amendment was never intended
to affect this right.
It'is obviou that the due process of law required by
the Fourteenth Amendment has no application. to the
subject matter here.
If there exists a reason for dividL g people into two
classes as (1) citizeiis, and (2) aliens, in respect of a particular subject matter. of legislation, it is also competent
to apply to those classes different legislative treatment.
If there exists an equally good reason for again dividing
either of these divisions into classes, it is equally competent to apply to those classes different legislative
treatment.
The classification adopted in the California Alien Land
Act is (1) aliens eligible to citizenship, and (2) aliens not
eligible to citizenship. The. first class owes allegiance to
the State and to the Nation. Experience of more than a
century has shown that large numbers from the first class
do assume the burdens, duties and responsibilities of
citizenship, severing their allegiance* from the old and
swearing allegiance to their new government. The second class, irrespective of their desires, can never become
citizens of this government or free themselves from the

PORTERFIELD v. WEBB.
225

.

229

Argument for Appellees.

obligations and allegiance to their own government.
They can never become .the support and dependence of
this nation but remain the support, maintenance and dependence of their own government. They are and must
continue to be aliens unassimilated and unassimilable and
in full harmony, sympathy and accord with their own
government when the call to arms comes. They are, and
must by reason of their allegiance remain, not only aliens
within our borders, but enemies when the nations are in
conflict. This is valid classification. Perley v. North
Carolina,249 U. S. 510; Moody v. Hagen, 36 N. D. 47;
Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312; Terrace v. Thompson,
274 Fed. 841, and cases there cited.
The modern application of the common law rule, datiAg
back to the time of the Year Books, that the only title
which an alien could acquire to real property was a title
subject to defeasance by the sovereign, could not be better expressed than it is by the court in the Terrace Case,
supra.
Secretary of State Bryan, in his diplomatic correspondencel with the Japanese Ambassador, following the enactment of the earlier California Alien Land Law of 1913,
expressed the necessity for the fundamental doctrine of a
nation's control of its land tenure in convincing language. Papers Relating to the Foreign Relations of the
United States, 1913, Department of State, p. 641.
The fundamental question is not one of race discrimination. It is a question of recognizing the obvious fact
that the American farm, with its historical associations
of cultivation and environment, including the home life
of its occupants, .cannot exist in competition with a farm
developed by Orientals with their totally different standards and ideas of cultivation of the soil, of living and
social conditions.
The conservative and intelligent statesmen ot Japan
have recognized this truth just as fully as have those of
America.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellees.

263 U. S.

Rights to land ownership and to citizenship in any
country must depend on the judgment of the statesmen
of that country. These are problems which throughout
the years of international relationships between governments have been settled by each nation for itself.
That the State may prohibit alien ownership of land,,
see Tanner v. Staeheli, 112 Wash. 344. See also Frick v.
Webb, 281 Fed. 407; In re Akado, 188 Cal. 739.
An alien may inherit land or take by law only by grace
of the State within the boundaries of which the lands are
situate. In re Colbert's Estate, 44 Mont. 259.
[Counsel then drew comparisons of the act with the
Washington statute upheld in Terrace v. Thompson,
ante, 197, and with alien land legislation in other States
and countries.]
II. Sections 1977 and 2164, U. S. Rev. Stats., are not
violated by the California Alien Land Law.
III. The California Law does not violate the treaty
with Japan. This is evident from an examination of the
treaty and the diplomatic negotiations preceding its
approval.
An historical analysis of the several treaties between
Japan and the United States also shows that leasehold
interests have always been restricted to, lands devoted
solely to trade and commerce.
Foreigners have no right to own or lease lands for agricultural purposes under the law of Japan.
IV. The plaintiff alien is not- ' ' carrying on trade,' wholesale and retail," or leasing land for "commercial purposes" within the scope of the treaty with Japan. Just
as the manufacture of sugar and of intoxicating liquors
to be thereafter transported in interstate commerce is
not a part of such commerce within the-provision of the
commerce clause of the Constitution, so by the same
reasoning the pursuit of a farmer in raising agricultural
products is not the pursuit of commerce \'-ithin the terms

PORTERFIELD v. WEBB.
225

Opinion of the Court.

of our treaty with Japan. Terrace v. Thompson, 274
Fed. 841; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1; United States v.
Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; Hopkins v. United States, 171
U. S. 578; Capital City Co. v. Ohio, 183 U. S. 238.
MR. JusTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellints brought this suit to enjoin the above named
Attorney General and District Attorney from enforcing
the California Alien Land Law, submitted by the initiative
and approved by the electors, November 2, 1920. [Stats.
1921, p. lxxxiii.]
Appellants are residents of California. Porterfield is a
citizen of the United States and of California. Mizuno
was born in Japan of Japanese parents and is a subject of
the Emperor of Japan. Porterfield is the owner of a farm
in Los Angeles County containing 80 acres of land, which
is particularly adapted to raising vegetables, and which
for some years has been devoted to that and other agricultural purposes. The complaint alleges that Mizuno
is a capable farmer and a desirable person to become a
tenant of the land, and that Porterfield desires to lease
the land to him for a term of five years, and that he
desires to accept the lease, and that the lease would be
made but for the act complained of. And it is alleged
that the appellees, as Attorney General and District Attorney, have threatened to enforce the act against the
appellants if they enter into such lease, and will forfeit,
or attempt to forfeit, the leasehold interest to the State
and will prosecute the appellants criminally for violation
of the act. It is further alleged that the act is so drastic
and the penalties attached to a violation of it are so great
that neither of the appellants may make the lease even
for the purpose of testing the constitutionality of the act,
and that, unless the court shall determine it validity in
this suit; app-ellants-will' be iompelled to -sabmit" to it,
whether valid or invalid, and thereby will be deprived of

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

their property without due process of law and denied
equal protection of the laws.
Appellants made a motion for a temporary injunction
to restrain appellees, during the pendency of the suit,
from bringing or permitting to be brought any proceeding
for the purpose of enforcing the act against the appellants.
This was heard by three judges as provided in § 266 of
the Judicial Code. The motion was denied.
The act provides in §§ 1 and 2 as follows:
"Section 1. All aliens eligible to citizenship under the
laws of the United States may acquire, possess, enjoy,
transmit and inherit real property, or any, interest therein,
in this state, in the same manner and toothe same extent
as citizens of the United States, except as otherwise provided by the laws of this state.
"Sec. 2. All aliens other than those mentioned in section one of this act may acquire, possess, enjoy and
transfer real property, or any interest therein, in this
state, in the manner and to the extent and for the purpose prescribed by any treaty now existing between the
government of the United States and the nation or
country of which such alien is a citizen or subject, and
not otherwise."
Other sections provide penalties by escheat and imprisonment for violation of § 2.
The treaty between the United States and Japan (37
Stat. 1504-1509) does not confer upon Japanese subjects
the privilege of acquiring or leasing land for agricultural
purposes. -Terrace v. Thompson, ante, 197.
Appellants contend that the law denies to ineligible
aliens equal protection of the laws secured by the Fourteenth Amendment, because it forbids them to lease land
in the State although the right to do so is conferred upon
all other aliens. They also contend that the act is unconstitutional because it deprives Porterfield of the right
to enter into contracks for the leasing of his realty, and

PORTERFIELD v. WEBB.
225

Dissent.

deprives Mizino of his liberty and property by debarring
him from entering into a contract for the purpose of earning a livelihood in a lawful occupation.
This case is similar to Terrace v. Thompson, supra.
In that case the grounds upon which the Washington
Alien Land Law was attacked included those on which the
California act is assailed in this case. There the prohibited class was made up of aliens who had not in good faith
declared intention to become citizens. The class necessarily includes all ineligible aliens and in addition thereto
all eligible aliens who have failed so to declare. In the
case now before us the prohibited. class includes ineligible
aliens only. In the matter of classification, the States
have wide discretion. Each has its own problems, depending on circumstances existing there. It is not always
practical or desirable that-legislation shall be the same in
different States. We cannot say that the failure of the
California Legislature to extend the prohibited class so as
to include eligible aliens who have failed to declare their
intention to become citizens of the United States was arbitrary or unreasonable. See Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S.
373, 383, 384, and cases cited.
Our decision in Terrace v. Thompson, supra, controls
the decision of all questions raised here.
The order of the District Court is
affirmed.
MR. JusTcIE MCREYNweDS and MR. JusTicE BRANDEIS
think there is no justiciable question involved and that the
case should have been dismissed on that ground.
MR. JUSTICE S-iTHERLAND took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

