AMER. RY. EXP. CO. v. LEVEE.
Statement of the Case:

AMERICAN RAILWAY EXPRESS COMPANY v.
LEVEE.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEAL, FIRST CIRCjIT, OF THE
STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 54. Argued October 8, 1923--Decided October 22, 1923.
1. When By the constitution of a State the jurisdiction of its highest
court to review a, judgment of an intermediate tribunal is discretionary, and review is declined, the writ of certiorari from this
Court should be addressed to the intermediate tribunal. P. 20.
2. The fact that the highest state court in such case, being required
by the state constitution to give reasons for declining, doce so by an
opinion upon the merits, does not take from the refusal its character
of declining jurisdiction. P. 21.
3. The limit of time for applying here for certiorari dates from the
refusal of the highest state court to review the decision of the
intermediate court. Id.
4- A state statute placing upon the carrier, when sued for the value
of goods consigned but not delivered, the burden of proving that
the loss or damage was occasioned by accidental and uncontrollable
events (La. Rev. Civ. Code, Art, 2754,) cannot affect a limitation
of liability for an interstate shipment. agreed upon and valid under
the federal law. P. 21.
Reversed.

to a judgment of the Court of Appeal of
Louisiana, First Circuit, which affirmed a judgment for
damages, recovered by the respondent against the petitioner Express Company.
CERTIORARI

Mr. Arthur A. Moreno, with whom Mr. Hunter C.
Leake, Mr. A. AT. Hartung and Mr. H. S. Marx were on
the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles T. Wortham for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

Court.

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

This is a suit brought by the respondent in a court of
Louisiana to recover the actual value of a trunk and its
contents, weighing one hundred pounds or less, delivered
rtx the petitioner for carriage from Madisonville, Texas, to
Thibodaux, Louisiana, but not delivered by the latter.
The plaintiff's petition set forth the receip. given by the
Company, which was in the usual form approved by the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and by which "In
consideration of the rate charged for carrying said property, which is dependent upon the value thereof and is
based upon an agreed valuation of not exceeding fifty
dollars for any shipment of 100 pounds or less
the shipper agrees that the company shall not be liable in
any event for more than fifty dollars for any shipment of
100.pounds-or less"; with other language to the same
effect. 'At the trial the defendant relied upon this limitation of its liability. But the Court following Article
2754 of theRevised Civil Code of Louisiana held that the
burden was on the carrier to "prove that [the] loss or
damage has been occasioned by. accidental and uncontrollable events," and gave the plaintiff judgment for
$863.75 and interest. *The Court of Appeal took the
same view and said that failure to make that proof was
equivalent to an admission of converting the property to
its own use. The defendant applied to the Supreme
Court of the State for a writ of certiorari, but the writ
was "refused for the reason that the judgment is correct."
A preliminary 'objection is urged that the present writ
of certiorari was addressed to the Court of Appeal and
not to the Supreme Court. But under the Constitution
of the State the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is discretionary, Art. 7, ยง 11, and although it was necessary for
the petitioner to invoke that jurisdiction in order to make
it certain that the case could go no farther, Stratton. v.
Stratton, 239 U. S. 55, when the jurisdiction was declined
the Court of Appeal was shown to be the highest Court

,

AMER. RY. EXP. CO. v. LEVEE.
19

Opinion of the Court.

of the State in which a decision could be had. Another
section of the article cited required the Supreme Court to
give its reasons for refusing the writ, and therefore the
fact that the reason happened to be an opinion upon the
merits rather than some more technical consideration, did
not take from the refusal its ostensible character of declining jurisdiction. Western Union Telegraph Co. v.
Crovo, 220 U. S. 364, 366. Norfolk & Suburban Turnpike Co. v. Virginia, 225 U. S. 264, 269. Of course the
limit of time for applying to this Court was from the
date when the writ of certiorari was refused.
Coming to the merits, the limitation of liability was
valid, whatever may be the law of the State in cases
within its control. Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226
U. S. 491.. Union Pacific R. R. Co. v. Burke, 255 U. S.
317, 321. American Ry. Express Co. v. Lindenburg, 260
U. S. 584. The effect of the stipulation could not have
been escaped"by suing in trover and laying the failure to
deliver as a conversion if that had been done. Georgia,
Florida& Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S.
190, 197. No more can it be escaped by a state law or
decision that a failure to deliver shall establish a conversion unless explained. The law of the United States
cannot be evaded by the forms of local practice. Rogers
v. Alabama, 192 U. S. 226, 230. Under the law of the
United States governing interstate commerce the stipulation constituted a defence to liability beyond fifty dollars,
unless the plaintiff, should prove some facts that took the
case out of the protection of the contract. It had that
scope in whatever Court it came up. The local rule applied as to the burden of proof narrowed the protection
that the defendant had secured, and therefore contravened the law. See Central Vermont Ry. Co. v. White,
238 U. S. 507, 512. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S.319, 328. E. Borneman & Co. v. New Orleans M. & C. R. Co., 145 La. 150.

.22

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

263 U. S.

We think it unnecessary to follow the arguments addressed to us into further detail.
Judgment reversed.

DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ETC. v. WECHSLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE KANSAS CITY COURT OF APPEALS, STATE
OF MISSOURI.

No. 70. Argued October 12, 1923.-Decided October 22, 1923.
1. A decision of a state court denying an objection to jurisdiction
.based on a federal regulation, upon the ground that the objection
was waived by the appearance of the party making it, is regxaminable by, this Court. P. 24.
2. Where the Director General of Railroads, being sued upon a cause
of action for personal injuries, in a state court whose practice
permitted uniting a plea to the jurisdiction with a defense on the
merits, pleaded a general denial and also that the court was without jurisdiction because the action was not brought in the proper
county as required by a federal regulation governing the place for
suits against. carriers while under federal control, and his successors, designated by the President under the Transportation Act,
1920, successively entered appearance and adopted the answer
theretofore filed, held, that a decision of the state court, treating
the objection to the jurisdiction as going to the venue of the
cause and as waived by the appearances, could not be Bustained
as a decision disposing of the case on a local ground independent
of the federal question raised. Id.
3. The Transportation Act, 1920, ยง 206, (a), (d), does not invalidate
. a defense good when it was passed. P. 25.
209 Mo. App. 570, reversed.
. CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Kansas City Court of
Appeals, (the Supreme Court of Missouri having declined
to review,) awarding damages 'to the plaintiff Wechsler,
for personal injuries suffered upon a railroad, while it
was under federal control.

