FED. TRADE COMM. v. RAYMOND CO.
553

565

Argument for Petitioner.

signed June 30 were calculated and intended to circumvent
the rule of the New York Stock'Exchange above referred
to, without altering the substance of the plan of organization evidenced-by the first agreement. Blit from the conclusion that Hecht and Finn are not h~ble as general
partners, it necessarily follows that the other respondents
cannot be held liable as such.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
FEDERAL

TRADE COMMISSION

v. RAYMOND

BROS.-CLARK COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH" CIRCUIT.
No. 102.

Argued November 27, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.

In the absence of any element of conspiracy, monopoly or oppression,
a wholesale dealer, in interstate commerce, has a right to stop
dealing with a manufacturer if he thinks that'the manufacturer is
undermining his trade by selling to a competing wholesaler or to a

retailer competing with his customers; and such conduct is not an
unfair method of competition within the meaning of the Trade

Commission Act. P. 572.
280 Fed. 529, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court pf Appeals
which set aside an order of the Federal Trade Commission.
Mr. Adrien F. Busick, with whom Mr. SolicitorGenerol
Beck and Mr. W. H. Fuller were on the brief, for petitioner.
The decision of this Court in Federal Trade Comm. v.
Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, interpreted the substantive law of
the Trade Commission Act as creating two classes of
practices which are unfair within the meaning of the
statute, first, those which are contrary to good morals because characterized by deception, bad faith, fraud, or op-

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

263 U. S

pression, and, second, those which have a dangerous
tendency unduly to hinder competition. Subsequently,
in Federal Trade Comm. v. Beech-Nut-Co., 257 U. S. 441,
this Court held the "Beech-Nut System of Merchandising" to be an unfair method of competition because of
its effect to restrict competition. Again, in Federal Trade
Comm. v. Winsted Hosiery Co., 258 U. S. 483, the use of
false brands or labels was held to be an unfair method of
competition, the basis of the illegality of the method being
its deceptive character. These decisions firmly establish
the criteria for the interpretation of the act.
This proceeding involves "involuntary" restraints of
trade; and control of the market by respondent need not
be shown. United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525; Loewe
v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; United States v. Keystone Watch
Case Co., 218 Fed. 502; Steers v. United States, 192 Fed. 1.
The practice burdens interstate commerce, hinders competition, and destroys that equality of opportunity to
compete which it was the purpose of the Trade Commission Act to -preserve. Eastern States Lumber Assn. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 600; Duplex Co. v. Deering,
254 U. S. 443.
The evidence clearly shows that there was an existing
interstate traffic between manufacturers of various States
and the Basket Stores Company, and that for the direct
purpose of destroying such traffic petitioner sought to induce the Snider Company to cease selling its products to
the Basket Stores Company. Obviously, if respondent's
efforts had been successful,- there would have been no
.more sales by the Snider Company to the Basket Stores
Company, and interstate traffic between them would
have ceased, the free flow of commerce between the States
would have been obstructed, and the trade of the Basket
Stores Company would 'have been restrained. See Swift
& Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Montague & Co. v.
Lowry, 193 U. S. 38.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RAYMOND CO.
565

567

Argument for Petitioner.

The methods employed were oppressive within the
Gratz Case. If a corporation engaged in interstate commerce may employ the strength of its buying power to
prevent another from procuring a commodity in interstate commerce upon which the very existence of the
latter's business depends, it may follow such practices
until the dealer against whom they are directed finds
himself unable to purchase any commodities and automatically retires from business. By a similar line of conduct, a rival could not only be prevented from purchasing commodities but from securing advertising space in
newspapers and magazines, and the channels'of commerce completely closed to him.
Such methods destroy that equality of opportunity to
compete in business which it was the great purpose of
the Trade Commission Act and of cognate statutes to
preserve. United States v. American Oil Co., 262 U. S.
371; United States v. FreightAssn., 166 U. S. 90; United
States v. International Harvester Co., 214 Fed. 987.
Traders should have large freedom of action in the
conduct of their own affairs. Federal Trade Comm. v.
Curtis Pub. Co., 260 U. S. 568; Federal Trade Comm. v.
Sinclair Refg. Co., 261 U. S. 463. But the line which
separates fair competition from that which is unfair is
clear. Hitchman Coal Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229;
American Bank & Trust Co. v. Federal Reserve Bank,
262 U. S. 643; Sears-Roebuck Case, 258 Fed. 307; National Harness Manufacturers Case, 268 Fed. 705.
The use of the methods here employed constitutes an
unwarranted interference with the Basket Stores' right at
common law to a free market. Martell v. White, 185
Mass. 255; Brown & Allen v. Jacobs Co., 115 Ga. 429;
Booth v. Burgess, 72 N. J. Eq. 181; Quinn v. Leathem,
(1901) A. C. 495; Pollock, The Law of Torts, 10th ed.,
p. 163; Auburn Draying Co. v. Wardell, 227 N. Y. 1;
People v. Butler, 221 Mich. 626.

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

No question of respondent's right to refuse to deal
with others is involved in this case.
There was an illegal interference with established business relations. Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 38; Hitchman Coal Co. v. Mitchell, 245 U. S. 229, 252.
The practice being inherently illegal, no tendency to
monopoly need be proven.
The existence of public interest in the case has been
committed by the statute to the Commission as a matter
preliminary to the issuance of a complaint and moving
it to action or nonaction. There is ample public interest
here.
Mr. Emmet Tinley, Mi. W. E. Mitchell, Mr. D. L. Ross
and Mr. Edwin D. Mitchell appeared for respondent.
Mr. Justice SWFoRU delivered the opinion of the Court.
This writ brings up for review a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which set aside an order of the Federal
Trade Commission requiring the Raymond Bros.-Clark
Company to desist from a method of competition held to
be prohibited by the Trade Commission Act of September
26, 1914, c. 311, 38 Stat. 717.
By ยง 5 of.that act "unfair methods of competition " in
interstate coimmerce are declared unlawful, and the Commission is empowered and directed to prevent their use.
The Commission, in January, 1920, issued a complaint
charging the Raymond Company with acts and practices
the purpose and effect of which were to cut off the supplies purchased by the Basket Stores Company, a competitor, from the T. A. Snider Preserve Company, stifle
and prevent competition by the Stores Company, and interfere with the right of the Stores Company and the
Snider Company to deal freely with each other in interstate commerce. The Raymond Company answered, and
evidence was taken. The Commission made a report,
stating its findings of fact and conclusions.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RAYMOND CO.
565

569

Opinion of the Court.

The material facts shown by the findings are: The
Raymond Company and the Stores Company are dealers
in groceries, with their principal places of business and
warehouses in Nebraska. They buy groceries in wholesale quantities from manufacturers in other States, which
are shipped to their warehouses and resold to customers
within and outside of Nebraska. Each does an annual
business of approximately $2,500,000. The Raymond
Company sells exclusively at wholesale. The Stores Company operates a chain of retail stores, but also sells at
wholesale. In its wholesale trade, which constitutes
about ten per cent. of its total business, it is a competitor
of the Raymond Company. The Snider Company is
a manufacturer of groceries, with its office in Illinois. In
September, 1918, it sold groceries to the Raymond Company, the Stores Company and other neighboring dealers.
These groceries were shipped in interstate commerce in
a "pool" car to the Raymond Company, for distribution
among the several purchasers.1 The Raymond Company,
upon thus learning of the sale to the Stores
Company,
delayed the delivery of its portion of the groceries, to
the hindrance and obstruction of its business, and wrote
to the Snider Company, protesting against the sale direct
to the Stores Company and asking for the allowance of
the jobber's profit on such sale.2 Later, the Raymond
Company declined to pay the Snider Company until this
commission was allowed, and threatened to cease business with it and return all goods purchased from it then
1The facts that the Snider Company's office is in Illinois, and that
it shipped these groceries in interstate commerce, are not stated in

the findings; but they otherwise appear in the record and are not
disputed.
'it otherwise appears from the record that the ground of its
protest and claim was its assertion that the Stores Company was
"nothing but a retail store."

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

63 U.S.

in stock, unless it allowed this commission and discontinued direct sales to the Stores Company;- and, thereafter, an attempted settlement of the controversy having failed, the Raymond Company ceased to purchase
from the Snider Company.
The conclusions of the Coimmission -were: that the conduct of th6 Raymond Company tended to, and did, unduly hinder competition between the Stores Company
and others similarly engaged in business; that the purpose of the Raymond Company was also to press the
Snider Company to a selection of customers, in restraint
of its trade, and to restrict the Stdres Company in the
purchase of commodities in competition with other
buyers; and that the conduct of the Raymond Company
tended to the accomplishment of this purpose.
The Commission thereupon adjudged that the method
of competition in question was prohibited by the act, and
ordered the Raymond Company to desist from directly
or indirectly-hindering or preventing any person, firm,
or corporation in or from the purchase of groceries or
like commodities direct from the manufacturers or producers, in interstate commerce, or attempting so to do;
hindering or preventing any manufacturer, producer, or
dealer in groceries and like commodities in or from the
selection of customers in interstate commerce, or attempting so to do; and influencing or attempting to influence
any such manufacturer, producer, or dealer not to accept
as a customer any firm or corporation with which, in the
exercise of a free judgment, he has, or may desire to have,
such relationship.
Upon a petition of the Raymond Company for review
of this order, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
findings of fact did not show an unfair method of competition by the Raymond. Company. as to the Stores Company or others similarly engaged in bubiness. The court
said: "There is no finding that petitioner combined with

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RAYMOND CO.,
565

571

Opinion of the Court.

any other person or corporation for the purpose of affecting the trade of the Basket Stores Company, or others
similarly engaged in business. So far as petitioner itself is
concerned, it had the positive and lawful right to select
any particular merchandise which it wished to purchase,
and to select any person or corporation from whom it
might wish to make its purchase. The petitioner had the
right to do this for any reason satisfactory to it, or for
no reason at all. It had a right to announce its reason
without fear of subjecting itself to liability of any ldnd.
It also had the unquestioned right to discontinue dealing
with any manufacturer, . . . for any reason satisfactory to itself or for no reason at all. Any incidental result which might occur by reason of petitioner exercising
a lawful right cannot be charged against petitioner as an
unfair method of competition." The decree setting aside
the order of the Commission was thereupon entered. 280
Fed. 529.
We pass, without determination, -the preliminary contentions of the Raymond Company, that the findings of
the Commission are not supported by the testimony, in
many respects,3 and that, as both the complaint and the
findings of fact relate merely to a controversy between it
and a single manufacturer, over a single shipment of merchandise, the broad order of the Commission, commanding it to desist from all acts of like character with "the
'The Raymond Company insists that the testimony shows, among
other things, that it did not inteitionally delay the delivery of the
groceries to the Stores Company; that the Stores Company is not its
competitor in the wholesale business, but engaged in the retail business, selling grocerie~s to consumers in competition with other retail
dealers to whom the Raymond Company sells at wholesale; and that
it did not threaten the Snider Company with the withdrawal of
patronage if it cuntinued to sell to the Stores Company, bi. merely
expressed surprise at the change made by the Snider Company from
its former policy of selling only to wholesalers, and declared that it
would not have made its own purchases had it known of this change.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S

entire commercial world" is improvident, and can not be
sustained."
The gravamen of the contention in behalf of the Commission is that the conduct of the Raymond Company,
acting alone and not in combination with others, in threatening the withdrawal of patronage from the Snider Company if it continued to sell goods to the Stores Company,
constituted an unfair method of competition, oppressive
in its character, unlawful when tested by common law
criteria, and having a dangerous tendency unduly to
hinder competition.
The words "unfair method of competition," as used in
the act, "are clearly inapplicable to practices never heretofore regarded as opposed to good morals because characterized by deception, bad faith, fraud or oppression, or
as against public policy because of their dangerous tendency unduly to hinder competition or create monopoly."
FederalTrade Comm. v. Gratz, 253 U. S.421,427; Federal
Trade Comm. v. Beech-Nut Co., 257 U. S. 441, 453. If
real competition is to continue, the right of the individual
to exercise reasonable discretion in respect of his own business methods, must be preserved. Federal Trade Comm.
v. Gratz, supra, p. 429.
The present case discloses no elements of monopoly or
oppression. So far as appears the Raymond Company
has no dominant control of the grocery trade, and competition between it and the Stores Company is on equal
terms. Nor do we find that the threatened withdrawal
of its trade from the Snider Company was unlawful at the
'The Circuit Court of Appeals stated, in the outset of its opinion,
that, in any event, as the proceeding related to the use of an unfair
method of competition against the Stores Company, the order of the
as broad as the business world," would have to
Commission, being "1
be modified, if sustained in any particular. See Federal Trade
Comm. v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, and Western Sugar Refinery Co. v.
Federal Trade Comm. (C. C. A.), 275 Fed. 725, 732.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RAYMOND CO.
565

573

Opinion of the Court.

common law, or had any dangerous tendency unduly to
hinder competition.
It is the right, "long-recognized ", of a trader engaged
in an entirely private business, "freely to exercise his
own independent discretion as to parties with whom he
will deal." United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S. 300,
307. See also United States v. Freight Assn., 166 U. S.
290, 320; Dueber Watch-Case Co. v. Howard Watch Co.
(C. C. A.), 66 Fed. 637, 645; Great Atlantic Tea Co. v.
Cream of Wheat Co. (C. C. A.) 227 Fed. 46, 48; Wholesale Grocers' Ass'n v. Trade Comm. (C. C. A.), 277 Fed.
657, 664; Mennen Co. v. Trade Comm. (C. C. A.), 288
Fed. 774, 780; Booth v. Burgess, 72 N. J. Eq. 181, 190;
and 2 Cooley on Torts, (3d ed.) 587. Thus a retail dealer
"has the unquestioned right to stop dealing with a wholesaler for reasons sufficient to himself." Eastern States
Lumber Assn. v. United States, 234 U. S.600, 614; United
States v. Colgate & Co., supra, p. 307. lie may lawfully
make a fixed rule of conduct not to buy from a producer
or manufacturer who sells to consumers in competition
with himself. Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi, 217
U. S. 433, 440. Or he may stop dealing with a wholesaler
who he thinks is acting unfairly in trying to undermine his
trade. Eastern States Lumber Assn. v. United States,
supra, p. 614; United States v. Colgate & Co., supra, p.
307. Likewise a wholesale dealer has the right to stop
dealing with a manufacturer "for reasons sufficient to
himself." And he may do so because he thinks such
manufacturer is undermining his trade by selling either
to a competing wholesaler or to a retailer competing with
his own customers. Such other wholesaler or retailer has
the reciprocalright to stop dealing with the manufacturer.
This each may do, in the exercise of free competition, leaving it to the manufacturer to determine which customer,
in the exercise of his own judgment, he desires to retain.
A different case would of course be presented if the Raymond Company had combined and agreed with other

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U1. S.

wholesale dealers that none would trade with any manufacturer who sold to other wholesale dealers competing
with themselves, or to retail dealers competing with their
customers. An act lawful when done by one may become
wrongful when done by many acting in concert, taking on
the form of a conspiracy which may be prohibited if the
result be hurtful to the public or to the individual against
whom the concerted action is directed. Grenada Lumber Co. v. Mississippi,supra,p. 440; EasternStates Lumber Assn. v. United States, supra, p. 614. See also Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, ante, 291.
We conclude that the Raymond Company in threatening to withdraw its trade from the Snider Company exercised its lawful right, and that its conduct did not constitute an unfair method of competition within the meaning of the act. The decree of the Circuit Court of ApAffirmed.
peals is accordingly
WILSON, COUNTY COLLECTOR OF TAXES FOR
THE COUNTY OF MARION, ET AL. v. ILLINOIS
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 131.

Argued January 3, 1924.-Decided January 14, 1924.

1. When the jurisdiction of the District Court rests solely upon a
claim under the Constitution, the merits are open upon a direct
appeal to this Court. P. 576.
2. A railroad company, alleging that its property had been overvalued by a state board, erroneously and fraudulently, and out
of all proportion to other property, sued the collectors of five
counties, among which the assessment had been apportioned, to restrain them from proceeding in their respective county courts to
collect the taxes. Held, that in view of the many suits involved
and the insuperable difficulty of determining through them the
proper amount and apportionment of the assessment, the plain-

