GILES v. VETTE.

55"

Syllabus.

GILES ET AL. v. VETTE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 59. Argued October 9, 10, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. A limited partnership could not be formed under the Illinois Limited Partnership Act of 1874, until the certificate had been filed in
the office of the county clerk. P. 559.
2. Where this was not done until the Uniform Limited Partnership
Act (1917) had displaced the Act of 1874, and the plan was to
conduct a brokerage business, a purpose not authorized under the
liter act, the attempt to form a limited partnership was abor-

tive. Id.
3. In Illinois, the question of partnership, as between the parties, is
one of intention, to be gathered from the facts and ciricumstances.
Id.
4. Persons who contributed capital to a firm and received profits, but
under a legally ineffectual agreement for a limited partnership and
without real or apparent authority to bind the firm, and who returned the dividends with interest when it became bank -ipt, Aeld
not to have become general partners under the Uniform General
Partnership Act, Illinois, 1917. P. 560.
5. Mere representation, on mistaken belief, that one is a limited
partner, will not make him liable as a general partner to creditors
of the firm, who were not injured thereby. General Partnership
Act, supra, § 16. P. 561.
6. Section 11 of the Uniform Limited Partnership Act, Illinois, providing that a person who has contributed' to the capital of a busi.ness erroneously believing that he has become a limited partner
shall not, by reason of his exercise of the rights of a limited partner,
be deemed or held liable as a general partner, provided, on ascertaining the mistake, he promptly renounces his profits in the
business, etc.,--should be construed liberally, and not restricted to
cases where there were attempts to organfie limited partnerships
under that act. Id.
7. Under the act last cited, § 6 ,.false statement in a limited partnership certificate, .does-n6 create liability in favor of creditors not
shown to have suffered loss by reliance upon it. P. 564.
281 Fed. 928, affirmed,. .

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

CERTIoRI
to an order or decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals modifying an order of the District Court,
which adjudged the respondents here to be partners, and
sent the case to the referee for findings of fact as to insolvency. The petitioners here were the creditors.

Mr. William Burry and Mr. Guy M. Peters, with whom
Mr. Julius Moses and Mr. Lewis F. Jacobsonwere on the
briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. George T. Buckingham, with whom Mr. Harry P.
Weber, Mr. George W. Miller, Mr. Donald Defrees and
Mr. Stephen E. Hurley were on the brief, for Vette et al.,
respondents.
Mr. Horace Kent Tenney, with whom Mr. Charles F.
Harding, Mr. Roger Sherman, Mr. Carl Meyer and Mr.
Henry Russell Platt were on the brief, for executors of
Hecht et al., respondents.
Mr. Justice BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
On March 11 and 12, 1920, creditors filed petitions in
bankruptcy against Marcuse & Company, and a receiver
was appointed. The bankruptcy court found that the
firm was composed of Marcuse, Morris,' Hecht, Finn,
Vette, Zuncker, Regensteiner, Clement Studebaker, Jr.
and George M. Studebaker, and sent the case to the
referee, directing findings of fact as to insolvency. The
case was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals on petition
to review and revise that finding and order. That court
eliminated from the order the names of all except Marcuse
and Morris. 281 Fed. 928. This Court granted a writ of
certiorari on petition of creditors. 260 U. S. 712. The
question for decision is whether any of the persons named,
other than Marcuse and Morris, are liable as general
partners.

GILES v. VETTE.
553

555

Opinion of the Court.

Marcuse had been a member, and Morris had been an
employee, of the firm of Von Frantzius & Company,
brokers, at Chicago, which suspended business because
of the death of Von Frantzius. In April, 1917, settlement of the estate of Von Frantzius was pending in
Probate Court. Proceedings in bankruptcy were pending against Von Frantzius & Company. There were
many creditors of the firm, and it was indebted in large
amounts to the respondents other than Vette and
Zuncker. Marcuse desired to organize a new brokerage
firm to carry on business'in the place formerly occupied
by his old firm. It was proposed that a limited partnership be formed under the Illinois Limited Partnership
Act of 1874, and to that end, a form of agreement was
prepared, and nine originals were signed by Marcuse,
Morris, Hecht, Finn, Vette, Zuncker, Regensteiner and
Hoffman (in his own name, but in fact representing the
Studebaker interest).
In advance of the consummation of this agreement,
Marcuse was to arrange with creditors of the firm that the'
assets of the Von Frantzius estate be turned over to
him, as trustee, on his giving bond and making certain
payments for the protection of the administrators. He
was to obtain assignnents of the claims of dreditors, in
consideration of trust certificates issued by him containing his agreement to pay off the creditors who did
not accept such certificates, to organize a new partnership, to turn over the assets to the new firm for liquidation in te usual course of its business for account of
the certificate holders, and, out of profits accruing to him
as a member of the new firm, to pay any deficiency remaining after liquidation of the assets. This arrangement had not been completed at the time of the signing
of the partnership agreement. The signed agreements
were placed in escrow not to be delivered until conclusion of arrangements for the delivery to Mareuse of all

556,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

the assets of Von Frantzius, excepting an amount to indemnify against claims of non-assenting creditors, and
to pay the expenses of administration, and until dismissal
of the bankruptcy .proceeding&
The proposed agreement provided for a limited copartnership under the name of Marcuse & Company) to
commence business on April 2, 1917, and to continue for
five years. Marcuse and Morris were to ba general
partners. The other signers were to be limited partners.
Marcuse was to contribute a membership in the New
York Stock Exchange, in addition to cash, and other property. Morris was to contribute $10,000. Contributions
were to be made by the limited partners as follows:
Hecht $25,000, Finn $31,500, Vette $30,000, Zuncker
$25,000, Regensteiner $28,500, and Hoffman (in fact the
Studebaker interest) $50,000,--amounting in all to $190,000. The general partners were to devote all their time
to the business and were permitted to draw specified sums
each year to be charged to expenses. Each partner, general and limited, was to have six per cent. on capital contributed by him. Morris was to have ten per cent. of
the net profits. Therd was to be paid to Marcuse twentyfive per cent. of the net profits, to be used by him to pay
off his trust certificates covering the debts of Von
Frantzius & Company. The rest was to be divided among
the partners, except Morris, in the proportions in which
they had contributed capital.
Shortly after the deposit in escrow, Marcuse learned
that the New Ydrk Stock Exchange would not admit to
membership a firm having more than two limited partners, but would not object to a firm having only two
-limited partners who were not engaged- in other business.
This was reported to the others, and the matter of consummating the proposed partnership agreement was
dropped.
But Marcuse did not abandon the idea of organizing a,
new firm, and, after conferences and lapse of some time,

GILES v. VETTE.
553

557

Opinion of the Court.

another limited partnership agreement for a firnm of the
same name was prepared conformably to the Act of 1874.
Marcuse, Morris, Hecht and Finn weie the parties to the
new agreement. It was dated-as was the former-April
2, 1917, and was signed June 30 of that year. Marcuse
and Morris were general partners and agreed to contribute
capital as in the proposed former agreement. Hecht and
Finn were named as limited partners, and each agreed to
contribute $95,000. The liability of each was expressly
limited to the amount contributed by him. The term' was
five years from July 1, 1917. Rights, duties and immunities of the general and limited partners were substantially as stated in the first draft.
On the same day, and as a part of the same transaction,
there was signed an instrument known as the Hecht-Finn
trust agreement.. The limited partnership agreement was
made a part of it, and a copy was. attached. It recited
that Hecht and Finn Would be entitled to certain payments and distributions of income and assets of the copartnership, and declared that they held the same as
trustees. The agreement directed payment to the Chicago Title and Trust Company of all funds at any time
payable to Hedht and Finn under the partnership agreement, or by way of distribution on dissolution. It directed the trust company to distribute all funds to the
holders of certain trust certificates for 380 shares of the
initial value of $500 per share to be issued by Hecht and
Finn, in accordance with the agreement, as follows: To
Hecht 50 shares, Finn 63 shares, Vette 60 shares, Zuncker
50 shares, Regensteiner 57 shares, and Hoffman (for the
Studebaker interest) 100 shares. Certificate holders were"
entitled to have access to the books, to have an inventory
and account once a year, and a 'trial balance monthly.
Hecht and Finn were to appoint such auditors as the
holders of certificates should designate. On the report of
the auditors and the direction of the certificate holders,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

they were authorized to take steps to dissolve-the firm, if
the business was not conducted conservatively or was
neglected or mismanaged. It Was provided that the certificate holders should "have. no right, title or interest,
-directory, proprietary or otherwise, in the said copartnership or in or to the property or assets of said copartnership . . . ", and that "the interest of each . . .holder
of trust certificates. shall consist solely of the right
to receive his proportionate share of the net part or parts
of the trust fund from time to time payable to the trust
company hereunder, . . Y This agreement was signed
by Hecht and Finn; there was attached to it an agreement
signed by Marcuse, Morris, Hecht and Finn to do all
things necessary to carry out the trust, and the trust
company accepted the duties imposed upon it.
On the same day-June 30, 1917-Hecht delivered his
check to Marcuse & Company for $25,000 and Finn his
check for $31,500. And checks were delivered to Hecht
and Finn by Vette for $30,000, by Zuncker for $25,000,
by Regensteiner for $28,500, and by Hoffman (for the
Studebaker interest) for $50,000. These checks were
handed over to Marcuse & Company, making up a total of
$190,000.
On Monday, July 2, the certificate of limited partnerthe office of the county clerk. The new
ship was filed ili
firfi commenced business on that day. All the letterheads and other papers of the firm indicated that Marcuse
and Morris were general partners and that Hecht and Finn
vere limited partners. Hecht and Finn took no part in
the control of the business. Marcuse and Morris exercised exclusive control and carried on the business. The
Hecht-Finn frust7agreement was unknown to persons dealing with the firm. It does not appear that any of the
creditors understood or had any reason to believe that the
arrangement was other than as shown by the partnership
agreement.

GILES v. VETTE.
553.

Opinion of the Court.

From time to time, while it was a going concern, the
firm paid dividends on the capital contributed. After
bankruptcy proceedings had been commenced against
Marcuse & Company, Hecht and Finn, in accordance with
§ 11 of the Uniform Limited Partnership Act, hereafter
quoted, renounced their interest in the profits of the business or other compensation by way of income. They also
paid $46,000 into court for the benefit of the alleged bankrupt estate. This amount was sufficient to cover all'
dividends paid on the $190,000, so contributed to. tlie
capital of the business, with interest on such dividends
from the times of payment.
Are Hecht and Finn liable as general partners?
No limited partnership was formed. On July 1, 1917,
the Illinois Limited Partnership Act of 1874 was repealed,
and there was substituted for it the Uniform Limited
Partnership Act (Hurd's Revised Statutes, 1919, c. 106a,
§§ 45-75). The Uniform (General) Partnership Act
(id. §§ 1-45) became effective on the same day. The Act
of 1874 provided that no limited partnership should be
deemed to have been formed fintil the certificate -should
be filed in the office of the county clerk. The first effort
t) form a, limited partnership was given up. The final
effort failed because the certificate was not filed until
after the repeal of the Act of 1874. Limited partnerships organized under the Act of 1917 -are nof authorized
to do a brokerage business, and no attempt was made.
to organize under it. '
Hecht and Finn were not partners as to Marcuse and
Morris. It is well settled in Illinois that, as between
the parties, the question of partnership is one of intention to be gathered from tlhe facts and circumstances.
Goacher v. Bates, 280 Ill. 372, 376; National Surety Co..
v. Townsend Brick Ca., 176 Ill. 156, 161; Grinton v.
Strong, 148 IIl. 587, 596; Lycoming Insurance Co. v.
Barringer,73 Ill. 230, 233, 234; Smith v. Knight, 71 Ill.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

148, 150. See also London Assurance Co. v. Drennen,
116 U. S. 461, 472. The Uniform (General) Partnership
Act provides: "A partnership is an association of two
or more persons to carry on as co-owners a business for
profit." Section 6 (1). ". . persons who are not, partners as to each other are ncit partners as to third persons." Section 7 (1). ". . . common property or part
ownership does -not of itself establish a partnership,
whether such co-owners do or do not share aiiy profits
made by the use of the property." Section 7 (2). "The
receipt by a person of a share of the profits of a business
is prima facie evidence that he is a partner in the business . . ."

Section 7 (4).

'Hecht and Finn did not carry on the business of the
firm as co-owners or otherwise. They had no authority,
actual or apparent, to act for or bind the copartnership.
The agreements of the parties, their subsequent conduct,
the repayment of dividends received with interest, together with the other facts and circumstances above alluded'to, are more than sufficient to rebut and overcome
any inference legitimately resulting from the receipt of
a share of the profits. The provisions of the agreement
giving respondents right to have access to the books of
the firm, to have statements, to appoint auditors and,
in the event specified, to call for a dissolution, were appropriate in a limited partnership. See § 19, Act of
1874; § 10, Uniform Limited Partnership Act. Under the
circumstances, these provisions do not indicate any intent
on the part of Hecht and Finn to become general partners
or support petitioners' contention that they are liable as
partners.
.As to third parties, they cannot be held liable as gen-eral partners.
Section 16 of the Uniform (General) Partnership Act
provides that: "When a person . . . represents himself, or consents to another representing him to any one,

GILES v. VETTE.
553

561

Opinion of the Court.

as a partner in an existing partnership
, he is liable
to any such person . . . who has, on the faith of such
representation, given credit to the actual or apparent
partnership, and if he has made. such representition or
consented to its being made in a public manner he is
liable . . ." There was no such representation of Hecht
or Finn to any person or to the public. On the contrary,
they were published to the world as limited partners. It
is true that they were not. But no person could have
been misled to his disadvantage by the statement that
they were. Representation on mistaken belief that they
were limited partners was not a holding out as general
partners. The lack of power of a limited partnership
created under the later act to carry on a brokerage business gives no additional significance to the representations. The firm was not held out as having been organized under that act. The failure to complete the organization did not injure any.persons dealing with the firm.
Creditors are as well off as if the limited partnership had
been perfected. The $190,000 handed over by Hecht and
Finn was not withdrawn. Hecht and Finn'did not intend or agree to become general partners.' The things
intended and done do not constitute- a paitnership. They
did nothing to estop them from denying liability as such.
The case is not doubtful. But if it were, their intent
should be followed. Beecher v. Bush, 45 Mich. 188, 193.
See also Post v. Kimberly, 9 Johns. 470, 502, et seq. To
hold them liable as general partners would give creditors
what they are not entitled to have, and would impose on
Hecht and Finn burdens that are not theirs to bear..Moreover, we think that § 11 of the Uniform Limited
Partnership Act was applicable and was properly invoked
by Hecht and Finn. It provides:
"A person who has contributed to the capital of a business conducted by a person or partnership erroneously
believing that he has become a limited partner. in a limited
partnership, is not, by reason of his exercise of the rights
74308*-24----3G

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

of a limited partner, a general partner with the person or
in the partnership carrying on the business, or bound by
the obligations of such person or partnership; provided
that on ascertaining the mistake he promptly renounces
his interest in the profits of the business, or other compensation by way of income."
Prior to the taking effect of that act, the courts of Illinois held that at common law all partners were liable
without limitation for the debts of the firm, and that, in
order to limit such liability, the statute authorizing limited partnerships must be complied with, or all those who
associated under it would be liable as general* partners.
Henkel v. Heyman, 91 Ill. 96, 101; Manhattan Brass Co.
v. Allin, 35 Ill. App. 336, 341; Walker v. Wood, 69 Ill.
App. 542, 549, affirmed 170 Ill. 463; Cummings v. Hayes,
100 Ill. App. 347, 353. And this is in harmony with decisions elsewhere uhder statutes similar to the Illinois Act
of 1874.1 These cases illustrate how strictly the common
law rule against limitation of liability was applied, and
how far the doctrine of constructive partnership was carried. It was thought that the strictness of the old act
and decisions under it impaired the usefulness of limited
partnerships as business organizations because of the risk
that one contributing capitgl as a limited partner might
be held liable without limitation.2 The Uniform Limited
'Pierce v. Bryant, 5 Allen, 91, 94; Haggerty v. Foster, 103 Mass.
17; Argall v. Smith, 3 Denio, 435, affirming 6 Hill, 479, 481; Durant
v. Abendroth, 69 N. Y. 148, 152; In re Merrill, 12 Blatchf. (U. S.)
221, 223; Richurdson v. Hogg, 38 Pa. St. 153; Vanhorn v. Corcoran,
127 Pa. St. 255, 268; In re Allen, 41 Minn. 430; Lineweaver v. Slagle,
64 Md. 465, 483; Holliday v. Union Bag and Paper Co., 3 Colo. 342,.
344; Oglesby Co. v. Lindsey, 112 Va. 767, 776.
'See explanatory note as to the Uniforn Limited Partnership Act,
submitted with the act to the Illinois legislature.
The Uniform Limited Partnership Act has been adopted by Alaska,
Illinois, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, Idaho, Iowa,
Minnesota, New Jersey, Utah and Wisconsin. See Terry, Uniform
State Laws, Annotated.

GILES v. VETTE.
553

Opinion of the Court.

Partnership Act and the Uniform (General) Partnership
Act, passed at the same time, relax the strictness of the
rules against limitation of liability. Each provides that
the rule that statutes in derogation of the common law
are to be strictly construed shall have no application to it,
and that the act shall be so interpreted and construed as
to effect the general purpose to make uniform the laws
of those States which adopt it. See § 28, Uniform Limited Partnership Act; § 4, Uniform (General) Partnership
Act.
Hecht and Finn contriouted to the capital ot the business, and eachl erroneously believed that he had become a
limited partner in a limited partnership. Neither took
any part in the control of the business or exercised any
rights or powers in respect of it other than those which
might belong to one not a general partner. See § 19, Act
of 1874; § 10, Uniform Limited Partnership Act. They
made the renunciation provided for. No person suffered
any loss or disadvantage because it was not made earlier,
or because of reliance on any statement in the certificate.
All dividends paid on the $190,000 were returned. It need
not be decided whether such return was necessary.
Section 11 is broad and highly remedial. The existence
of a partnership-limited or general-is not essential in
order that it shall apply. The language is comprehensive
and, covers all cases where one has contributed to the
capital of a business conducted by a partnership or person
erroneously believing that he is a limited partner. It
ought to be construed liberally, and with appropriate regard for the legislative purpose to relieve from the strictness of the earlier statutes and d-cisions. See Logan v.
Davis, 233 U. S. 613, 627, 628; United States v. Colorado
-Anthracite Co., 225 U. S. 219, 223; 'United States v.
Southern Pacific R. R. Co., 184 U. S.49, 56. Its application should not be restricted to cases where there was an
attcmpt to organize a lirited uartnership under that act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

The petitioners assert that § 11 does not apply because
the limited partnership certificate filed July 2, 1917, was
false in that it did not disclose the names of all the limited
partners or the amount of the contributions of each.
Their contention is that the other respondents were represented by Hecht and Finn, and that all should have been
named in the certificate as limited partners, and that the
amount advanced by each of the respondents should have
been stated as his contribution to the capital. -But-the
Act of 1874 was repealed and the Uniform Limited Partnership Act was substituted for it before the certificate
was filed and before the firm commenced business. Section 8 of the Act of 1874 provides that "if any false state-.
all the
ment shall be made in such- certificate .
as
.
persons interested . . . shall be liable
geieral partners." The later act is very different. It
provides (§ 6): "If the certificate contains a false statement, one who suffers loss by reliance on such statement
may hold liable any party to the certificate who knew the
statement to be false." We do not find that the certificate
was false within the meaning of § 8. But even if it was
inaccurate or false as asserted, liability of Hecht and Finn
or the other respondents as general partners does not follow, because the Act of 1874 was superseded, and because
it is not shown that any creditors suffered loss by reliance
upon any statement in the certificate.
It must be held that Hecht and Finn are not liable as
general partners.
Petitioners contend that the respondents other than
Hecht and Finn'are liable as general partners. They
argue that in the attempt to form the limited partnership
under the agreement signed June 30, Hecht and Finn were
acting as the representatives of the other respondents;
that the earlier agreement signed by all and placed in
escrow was not abandoned, and that the limited partnership agreement and the Hecht-Finn trust agreement

FED. TRADE COMM. v. RAYMOND CO.
553

565

Argument for Petitioner.

signed June 30 were calculated and intended to circumvent
the rule of the New York Stock'Exchange above referred
to, without altering the substance of the plan of organization evidenced-by the first agreement. Blit from the conclusion that Hecht and Finn are not h~ble as general
partners, it necessarily follows that the other respondents
cannot be held liable as such.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
FEDERAL

TRADE COMMISSION

v. RAYMOND

BROS.-CLARK COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

EIGHTH" CIRCUIT.
No. 102.

Argued November 27, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.

In the absence of any element of conspiracy, monopoly or oppression,
a wholesale dealer, in interstate commerce, has a right to stop
dealing with a manufacturer if he thinks that'the manufacturer is
undermining his trade by selling to a competing wholesaler or to a

retailer competing with his customers; and such conduct is not an
unfair method of competition within the meaning of the Trade

Commission Act. P. 572.
280 Fed. 529, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court pf Appeals
which set aside an order of the Federal Trade Commission.
Mr. Adrien F. Busick, with whom Mr. SolicitorGenerol
Beck and Mr. W. H. Fuller were on the brief, for petitioner.
The decision of this Court in Federal Trade Comm. v.
Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, interpreted the substantive law of
the Trade Commission Act as creating two classes of
practices which are unfair within the meaning of the
statute, first, those which are contrary to good morals because characterized by deception, bad faith, fraud, or op-

