SUPERIOR WATER CO. v. SUPERIOR.

125

Syllabus.

119

destination. Generally, the measure of damages for loss
of goods by a carrier when liable therefor is their value at
the destination to which it undertook to carry them.
Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 How. 100, 111; Mobile & Montgomery Ry. Co. v. Jurey, 111 U. S. 584, 596; New York,
L. E. & W. R. R. Co. v. Estill, 147 U. S. 591, 616; Chicago,

M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. McCaull-Dinsmore Co., 253 U. S.
97, 100; Royal Exchange Shipping Co. v. Dixon, 12 A. C.
[1887] 11; The Sarnia,278 Fed. 459; Hutchinson on Carriers, vol. 3, § T360; Carver on Carriage of Goods by Sea,

6th ed., § 287.
The decree below is affirmed.
SUPERIOR WATER, LIGHT & POWER COMPANY
v. CITY OF SUPERIOR ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

No. 57. Argued October 9, 1923.-Decided November 1-2, 1923.
1. Where a mIunicipality, with express power from the legislature,
enters into a, contract whereby in consideration of the construction, maintenance and operation of a water system by a water
company it grants the company the exclusive right to maintain
and operate for a specified period and agrees to extend the term
when it expires or to purchase the entire plant at a price to be
determined by capitalizing the net earnings of the year preceding
the purchase, the rights acquired by the company are rights of
property which are not subject, under the Constitution, to be
impaired by subsequent legislation attempting to substitute for the
company's franchises an "indeterminate permit" to continue in
force until the municipality shall elect to purchase upon terms to
be fixed by a state commission. P. 135.
receipted for no value shall be placed on the said property higher
than the invoice cost not exceeding $100 per package (or such other
value as may be expressly stated herein), nor shall the shipowner be
held liable for any profits or consequential or special damages, and
the shipowner shall have the option of replacing any lost or damaged

goods."

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court

263 U. S.

2. A power to alter or repeal incorporation acts, reserved by state
constitution,' will not be held applicable to property rights of a
corporation acquired by contract with a city, when not clearly so
construed by state decision antedating the contract. Id.
174 Wis. 257; 176 id. 626, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin for the City in a suit by the Water Company to
restrain the City from condemning the company's plant,
and praying specific performance of the City's contract
to purchase it or extend the company's franchise.
M.'. Frank B. Kellogg, with whom Mr. Harry L. Butler
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. L. Hanitch and Mr. T. L. McIntosh; with whom
Mr. C. Al. Wilson was on the briefs, for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE McRYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Since 1848 the Constitution of Wisconsin has contained the following clause. "Art. XI, Sec. 1. Corporations without banking powers or privileges may be
formed under general laws, but shall not be created by
special act, except for municipal purposes, and in cases
where, in the judgment of the legislature, the objects of
the corporation, can not be attained under general laws.
All general laws or special acts, enacted under the provisions of this section may be altered or repealed by the
legislature at any time after their passage."
Chapter 359, Private Laws of Wisconsin 1866, incorporated plaintiff in error's predecessor, the Superior Water
Works Company, and empowered it to make "any agreements, contracts, grants and leases for the sale, use and
distribution of water as may be agreed upon between
said company and any person or persons, associations and

SUPERIOR WATER CO. v. SUPERIOR.
125

127 "

Opinion of the Court.

corporations, and with the town of Superior, or neighboring towns; or the said company itself may take and use
the surplus water for manufacturing and other purposes;
which said agreements, contracts, grants and leases shall
be valid and effectual in law."
On October 15, 1887, in order to provide fire protection
and secure pure and wholesome water, and in consideration of benefits to accrue therefrom, the Village of Superior, a municipal corporation, by ordinance, granted to
Superior Water Works Company, its successors and
assigns, for a period of thirty years, the privilege of establishing, maintaining and operating 4 complete system of
water works. The ordinance specified the duties and obligations of the parties and, among other things, provided, that the village would abstainfor thirty years from
granting the right to lay water pipes in its streets to any
other party and that the main source -of water should be
Superior Bay; but if the village at its expense should
secure an indefeasible right to lay pipes across Minnesota Point in the State of Minnesota, etc., the company
would take water from Lake Superior. And further that
"at the expiration of the said thirty years, should the said
village refuse to grant to the said Superior Water Works
Company, its successors or assigns, the right to continue
and maintain said system of water works for another term
of thirty years, upon the said terms and conditions as may
exist between the said village or city, and .the said Superior Water Works Company, at the. expiration of the
1st thirty years, in and upon the public grounds and
streets of the said village and to supply the .said village
and the inhabitants thereof with water on reasonable
terms, then and in such case, the village shall purchase
from said Superior Water Works Company, its successors
or assigns, said system of water works and the property
connected therewith, at a fair valuation as provided for
in section XIII." *

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

Section XIII provided for arbitrators to determine the
actual value of the plant, exclusive of privileges granted
by the village, not to exceed what it would cost to construct the same, etc. Section XIV: "Within thirty
days after the passage of this ordinance said Superior
Water Works Company may file with the village clerk its
acceptance thereof, duly acknowledged before some authorized officer and from and after the filing of said acceptance this ordinance shall have the effect of and be a
contract between the village of Superior and the Superior
Water Works Company and shall be the. measure of the
rights and liabilities of said village as well as of said company, and in case such acceptance is not. so made and
filed within thirty days after the passage of this ordinance,
the village board shall have the right to repeal the same."
The corporation accepted the ordinance, constructed
the plant and many extensions, spent large sums in connection therewith; and long continued to operate it
In March, 1889, the territory constituting the Village of
Superior was incorporated as the City of Superior. The
charter.declared that "all franchises heretofore granted,
or contracts entered into, by the village of Superior, shall
continue and remain in force in accordance with the terms
thereof, as if the same had been granted or entered into
by said city of Superior." (C. 152, Laws 1889.)' It further empowered the city "to provide for the purchase,
construction, maintenance and operation of water-works
for the supply of water to the inhabitants of the city, and'
to supply such city with water for fire protection and other
purposes; and to secure the erection of water-works, said
city may, by contract or ordinance, grant to any person,
persons, company or corporation, the full right and privilege to build and own such water-works, and to maintain,
operate and regulate the same; and in doing so, to use the
streets, alleys and bridges of the city in laying and maintaining the necessary pipe lines and hydrants for such
term of years and on such conditions as may be prescribed

SUPERIOR WATER CO.-v. SUPERIOR.
125

129

Opinion of the Court.

by such ordinance or contract; and may also, by contract
or ordinance, provide for supplying from such waterworks, the city with water for fire protection and for other
purposes, and also the inhabitants thereof with water for
such term of years, for such price, in such manner, and
subject to such limitations as may be fixed by said contract or ordinance."
October 1, 1889, with the express assent of the Superior
Water Works Company and in consideration of the waiver
of certain rights by the latter, the City of Superior
amended section XIII, Ordinance of October 15,1887, so as
to. provide that, if purchased, the price to be paid for the
water works plant should be ascertained by capitalizing
the net earnings of the preceding year at five per centum. Sections II and III of this ordinance follow.
Section I. Ordinance number 5 of the general ordinances of the
village (now cityj of Superior, entitled "an ordinance amendinig and
reenacting section X1II of an ordinance authorizing the Superior
Water Works Company, its successors or assigns, to construct, operate

and maintain a system of water works in the village of Superior,
Douglas County, Wisconsin, and contracting with said company for a
supply of water for the use of said village and the inhabitants thereof,
and defining their rights, privileges and powers," is hereby amended
by striking out of said ordinance all of said ordinance after the words
"Section XIII," where the said words "Section XIII" occur, in the
thirteenth line thereof and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
This ordinance is passed upon the express condition that at the
expiration of twenty years after the date of the passage of this
ordinance and of every fifth year thereafter, the city of Superior may,
at its option, purchase from the said Superior Water Works Company,
its successors or assigns, the entire plant of the said Superior Water
Works Company, its successors or assigns, and including all franchises
theretofore granted to said Superior Water Works Company, its successors or assigns, by -the village or city of Superior, by paying therefor, in cash, an amount of money, of which the net earnings of said
Superior Water Works Company, for the year next preceding the
purchase thereof, by said city, shall be five per ceutum. Such pur.chase shall be made in the following manner, to-wit: The common
74308°-24---

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court..

268 U. S

"Section II. This ordinance is passed upon the consideration to the city of Superior that the said city is
hereby released and relieved from the duty, cost and expense of procuring, for said Superior Water Works Company, the valid and indefeasible right to extend and lay
its pipes across the bay of Superior and across Minnesota
Point, to the shores of, and into Lake Superior, as provided
in section II of said ordinance number one of the general
ordinances of the village of Superior and that all that part
of said section No. II, commencing with the word 'provided' in the twentieth line thereof, down to and including the word' completed' in the sixty-second line thereof,
council at its first regular meeting after the expiration of said twenty
years, or of any fifth year thereafter, may pass an ordinance declaring
its intention to purchase said plant and franchises appropriating the
necessary funds therefor and directing the city clerk of said city, to
serve upon said Superior Water Works Company, its successors or
assigns, a copy of said ordinance, together with a notice that at the
expiration of one year from the date of the service of said notice, the
said city will pay to said Superior Water Works Company, its successors, or assigns, the price of said plant and franchises, determined
as by this ordinance provided, and will assume possession of said plant
and franchises. Commencing with the day following the date of the
service of such notice, the said Superior Water Works Company, its
successors or assigns, shall keep an accurate account of all receipts
and disbursements of said company, in.a set of books kept expressly
for that purpose and for no other, which said books shall at the
expiration of each quarter year thereafter be open to the inspection
of the city comptroller of said city. At the expiration of otie year
from the date of the §ervice of the notice above provided for, the
said Superior Water Works Company, its successors or assigns, shall
submit to the comptroller of said city,.the said books of account, and
the price to'be paid for sdid plant and franchises shall be determined
therefrom, as. heseinbefore provided and 'upon th6 payment,, in; full,
of said price, the said Superior Water Works Company, its successors
or assigns, shall surrender to said city its. said plant and franchises
complete. The words "net earnings" as used in this ordinance, shall
mean the gross earnings of said water works, less the actual operating
expenses thereof.'

SUPERIOR WATER CO. v. SUPERIOR.
125

Opinion of the Court.

is hereby repealed. And this said ordinance is passed
upon the further consideration to the city of Superior,
that by the acceptance hereof the said Superior Water
Works Company binds itself, its successors and assigns, to
obtain at its own expense an adequate supply of good and
wholesome water for doaestic and public purposes from
said Lake Superior and to furnish the same to the inhabitants of said city. and to said city as provided in said ordinance number one as hereby amended within two years
from the acceptance of this ordinance by said Superior
Water Works Company.
"Section III. This ordinance is passed with the consent
of the Superior Water Works Company and upon filing a
written acceptance by it with the city clerk of the said
city of Superior the said ordinance with all other ordinances of said city of the village of Superior granting to
the said Superior Water Works Company any rights or
franchises shall be and become and is hereby made a
binding contract as so amended and modified."
In compliance with the foregoing ordinance and agreement the supply lines of the water system were extended
across Minnesota Point, in the State of Minnesota, and
into Lake Superior. The company also acquired a.parcel of land on that point and there installed wells, machinery and equipment which became an essential, part
of the system.
On November 1, 1889, the Superior Water Works Company sold and transferred its plant with all appurtenant
rights and privileges to plaintiff in error, the Superior
Water, Light and Power Company. Three ordinances
amended the grant of 1887 (in ways-not now necessary
to detail) in 1889, 1896 and 1899. Two of these provided
for and received express acceptance by plaintiff in error.
In 1907 the Wisconsin Legislature enacted the Public
Utility Law (c. 499, Laws 1907, §§ 1797m-1 to 1797m109, Wis. Stats.), which created the Railroad Commis-

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion 6f the Court.

263 U. S.

sion, a regulatory body, and authorized public utilities
to surrender existing franchises and acept in lieu thereof
"indeterminate permits." Chapter 596, Laws 1911, repealed the optional feature of the statute of- 1907 and
directed that every license, permit or franchise granted
by the State or by any town, village or city to any corporation authorizing the latter to operate a plant for furnishing heat, light, water or power, etc., etc., ",is so altered
and amended as. to constitute and to be an ' indeterminate
permit' within the terms and meaning of sections
1797m-1 to 1797m-108, inclusive, of the statutes of 1898,
and subject to all the terms, provisions, conditions, and
limitations of said sections 1797m-1 to 1797m-108, inclusive, and shall have the same force and effect as a license,
permit, or franchise granted after Jily 11, 1907, to any
public utility embraced in and subject to-the provisions of
,said sections 1797m-1 to 1797m-108, inclusive, except as
provided by section 1797m-802' One of the provisions
to which reference is made gives the municipality the
right to purchase upon terms to be fixed by the State
Railroad Commission.
The'statute (§ 1797m-1) declares the term "'indeterminate permit' . . . shall mean and embrace every
grant, directly or indirectly, from the stdte, to any corporation, company, individual, association of individuals,
their lessees, trustees or receivers appointed by any court
whatsoever, of power, right or privilege to own, operate,
manage or control any plant or equipment or any part- of
a plant or equipment within this state for the production, transmission, delivery or furnishing of heat, light,
water or power, either directly or indirectly, to or for the
-public, which shall continue in force until such time as
the municipality shill exercise its option to purchase as
provided in sections 1797m-1 to 1797m-109, inclusive, or
until it shall be otherwise terminated according to law."
Plaintiff in error has not voluntarily submitted to the
Public Utility Law.

SUPERIOR WATER CO. v. SUPERIOR.
125

Opinion of the Court.

On October 15, 1917, the prescribed thirty-year limita .
tion expired and plaintiff in error requested the City of
Superior either to grant further right to maintain the
system of water works or to purchase the same as provided by the ordinance of 1887 as amended in 1889. The
city failed to make the grant; denied its obligation to
purchase; and took steps under provisions of §§ 1797m-1
to 1797m-109, Wisconsin Statutes, to condemn the entire
plant. Thereupon plaintiff in error instituted the present cause against the city, its mayor and councilmen.
The complaint sets out the foregoing facts, alleges repudiation of the, obligation to purchase and the steps
taken for condemnation, and asks a decree requiring the
city specifically to perform its agreement, for an injunction restraining further efforts to condemn and for general relief.
The trial court overruled a general demurrer, but this
action was reversed by the Supreme Court, 174 Wis. 257,
which held that the Act of 1907 (c. 499) as amended in.
1911 was permissible under the reserved power to alter,
amend or repeal acts providingfor formation or creation
of corporations; and that it had substituted an "indeterminate permit" for the rights granted to the plaintiff
in error by the municipality. "A new franchise was
therefore granted to the defendant in lieu of its original
franchise by the enactment of c. 596, Laws 1911. Thereafter its franchise was that of the indeterminate permit,
and it was subject to the provisions of the public utility
law. This also was its franchise on October 1, 1917, when
it is claimed its original franchise expired. The public
utility law had superseded- everything of a franchise nature embodied in the original ordinance granted to it by
the village of Superior and the subsequent and succeeding amendments thereto." And also that it was immaterial whether or not a contract between the city and the
water company resulted from the clause of the original

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

ordinance providing for extension of the grant or purchase after thirty years, because "even though it be
considered- as a contract, we think it gives rise to no obligation on the part of the city to purchase the plant according to its terms."
The court further said"The manifest purpose of the provision was to insure
the Water Company one of two things: either a renewal of
its franchise for another period of thirty years or a sale
of its property in case such franchise be not renewed.
The franchise called for was one having 'the same terms
and conditions as may exist between the said village or
city and the said Superior Water Works Company at the
expiration of the first thirty years.' The franchise which
it had at that date was the indeterminate permit. That
was either its franchise or it had none. That was a
continuing franchise. It was indeterminate as to time.
It was not limited to thirty years or any other period.
Consequently there was no occasion for the city to 'grant
to the said Superior Water Works Company, its successors
or assigns, the right to continue and maintain said system of waterworks.' It already had that right. There
was therefore no breach of this part of the alleged contract on the part of the city. Until there was a breach
of this provision of the contract, no obligation on the part
of the city to purchase according to the terms of the contract arose. It seems plain that the position of the Water
Company is not helped by construing this provision of the
ordinance as a contract made by the city in its proprietary
capacity. The conditions precedent to an obligation on
.the part of the city to buy under the terms of the contract
have not come to pass, and the city has in no manner
become obligated to carry out the feature of the conitract
which is sought to be enforced in this action."
Considering the opinions of this court, it seems clear
enough that a valid contract resulted from the dealings

SUPERIOR WATER CO. v. SUPERIOR.
125

, 135

Opinion of the Court.

between the City of Superior and plaintiff in error
whereby each became obligated to do certain specified
things. The company agreed to construct, maintain and
operate an adequate water workssystem. The city obligated itself to recognize the company's exclusive right to
maintain and operate the system for a definite periodthirty years; and also to purchase the entire plant at a
price fixed in the manner specified if at the conclusion
of such period it should refuse to grant an extension.
The rights so acquired by plaintiff in error were property.
Pearsallv. GreatNorthern Ry. Co., 161 U. S. 646, Detroit
v. jDetroit Citizens' St. Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, 384; Clevelana-v: Cleveland City Ry. Co., 194 U. S.517, 536; Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Waterworks Co., 206 U. S. 496; Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 224 U. S. 649, 664;
Grand Trunk. Western Ry. Co. v. South Bend, 227 U. S.
544, 556; Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 230
U. S.58, 73; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U. S.
100, 117; Detroit United Ry.v. lichigan, 242 U. S. 238,
253; Northern Ohio Trac. Co. v. Ohio, 245 U. S.574, 585;
Columbus Ry. & Power Co. v. Columbus, 249 U. S.399,
407.
Concerning the relation between the parties the court
below declared, "the franchise of the Water Company,
which enables it to pursue its business of supplying water
to the city of Superior and its inhabitants, is a contract
between it and the state." But it held the legislature
had power to change this contract under the reservation
permitting alterations, in § 1, Art. XI, of the State Cdnstitution, and that the Act of 1911 did modify the contract by substituting for rights thereby secured an "indeterminate permit."
Through its contract with the city the water company
acquired valuable property rights. They were not directly created by any statute enacted under § 1, Art. XI,
of the State Constitution, but were the outcome of agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

ment with a fully empowered corporation. They did not
arise, from the mere exercise of a governmental function
legislative in character, but from contract expressly authorized by te legislature. None of the decisions of the
Sjupreme Court of Wisconsin prior to 1889 to which we
have been referred 2 construes the reservation in the State
Constitution as having the extraordinary scope accorded
to it below; and certainly in the absence of some very
clear and definite pronouncement we cannot accept the
view that it then had the meaning now attributed to it.
As late as 1909, in State ex rel. NorthernPacific Ry. Co.
v. Railroad Commission, 140 Wis. 145, 157, that court
announced, "The right to alter or repeal existing charters
is not without limitation when the question of vested
property rights under the charter is involved. The power
is one of regulation and control, and does not authorize
interference with property rights vested under the power
granted.
.
. The reserve power stops short of the
power to divest vested property rights, and is embodied in
the state constitution for the purpose of enabling the state
to retain control over corporations, and must be construed
in connection with the other provision of the constitution
to the effect that private property shall not be taken for
public use .without compensation. It follows, therefore,
'that where, under power in a charter, rights have been
acquired and become vested, no amendment or alteration
of the charter-can take away the property or rights which
have become vested under a legitimate exercise of the,
"Madison, Watertown & Milwaukee Plankroad Co. v. Reynolds, 3
Wis. *287; Prattv. Brown, 3 Wis. *603; Nazro v. Merchants' Mutual
Insurance Co., 14 Wis. *295; Kenosha, Rockord & Rock Island R. R.
Co. v. Marsh, 17 Wis. *13; Whiting v. Sheboygan & Fond du Lac
R. R. Co., 25 Wis. 167; Wisconsin v. Milwaukee Gas Light Co., 29
*Wis. 454; West Wisconsin R. R. Co. v. Board of Supervisors of
Trempealeau County, 35 Wis. 257; Attorney General v. Railroad
Companies, 35 Wis. 425.

BAKER v. DRUESEDOW.
125,

Syllabus.

'powers granted.' Commonwealth v. Essex Co., 13 Gray,
239 " See also Water Power Cases, 148 Wis. 124, 136:The integrity of contracts-matter of high public concern-is guaranteed against action like that here disclosed
by § 10, Art. 1, of the Federal Constitution, "No State
shall .
pass any . . . law impairing the obligation of contracts." It was beyond the competency of
the legislature to substitute an "indeterminate permit"
for rights acquired under a very clear contract. Vicksburg v. Vicksburg Waterworks Co., 206 U. S. 496; Detroit
United Ry. v. Michigan, 242 U. S. 238, 253. The erroneous conclusion concerning this federal question led to the
decree below. Accordingly it must be set aside and the.
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
BAKER, RECEIVER OF THE INTERNATIONAL &
GREAT NORTHERN .RAILWAY COMPANY, ET
AL. v. DRUESEDOW, TAX COLLECTOR OF HARRIS COUNTY, TEXAS, ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 12. Argued October 2, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
1. That the Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a State from
taxing the intangible property of a railroad, ascertaining its value
by deducting the value of its physical assets from the value of its
property as a whole, within the State; or from taxing railroads by
other rules than those prescrijed for other business concerns; or
from imposing double taxation,--are propositions long settled,
denial of which is frivolous. P. 140.
2. Over-assessment due to mere error of judgment is not reviewable
here as a violation of due process of law. P. 141.
3. Where assessments of tangible and intangible railroad property
are made independently by separate boards, but the taxes are laid
on both at the same rate, collected by the same county officers,

and treated by the state law as constituting together a single

