OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. SLAYMAKER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 87. Argued October 18, 1923.--Decided November 12, 1923.
The provision of the Act of August 29, 1916, that when any member
of the Naval Reserve Force severs his connectioh with "the
service," without compulsion on part of the Government, before
the expiration of his term of enrollment, the amount credited to
him as a "gratuity" for the purchase of a uniform shall be
deducted from any money that may be, or may become, due him,-was not intended to apply where an officer of that force left it
through being commissioned as an officer of the regular Navy.
P. 9b.
57 Ct. Clms. 294, affirmed.

by the United States from a judgment of the
Court of Claims awarding recovery of an amount deducted from the pay of a naval officer.
APPEAL

M"Vr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. J.A. Fowler, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
and Mr. George R. Shields were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Slaymaker, upon his enrollment during the War with
Germany, as an officer of the Naval Reserve Force, was
paid the sum of $150, as a gratuity for the purchase of a
uniform. He was subsequently commissioned as an
officer .of the regular Navy and that sum was checked
against his account and deducted from his pay as such
officer. This action is brought to recover that amount.
The Court of Claims gave judgment for Slaymaker,
following the ruling, it said, of Price v. United States, 55

UNITED STATES v. SLAYMAKER.
94

95

Opinion of the Court.

Ct. Clms. 499. To review and reverse its action the Government (there is convenience in so designating the
United States) prosecutes this appeal.
The difference between it and the court, and the latter's
decision, turns upon an act of Congress passed August 29,
1916, 39 Stat. 589. The act provides that "Members of
the Naval Reserve Force shall, upon first reporting for
active service for training during each period of enrollment, be credited with a uniform gratuity of $50 for
officers and $30 for men.
"Upon reporting for active service in time of war or
national emergehcy the uniform gratuity shall be $150
for officers and $60 for men .
.
Provided, That
should any member of the Naval Reserve Force sever his
connection with the service without compulsion on part
of the Government before the expiration of his term of
enrollment, the amount so credited shall be deducted
from any money that may be or may become due him."
We are confronted at the outset with. the word "service" and its definition, in the provision "should any
member of the Naval Reserve Force sever his connection
with the service." (Italics ours.) The word "service"
is an ambiguous one. It has many senses. In the first
paragraph of the act of Congress it has a limited and
immediately understood meaning. It has manifestly a
larger meaning in the second paragtaph, but how much
larger is open to dispute-is disputed inthis case. Does
it mean the Naval Service in the most comprehensive
sense of that designation, or the branches or departments
'of that service, or more narrowly, the functions in those
branches or departments? We are inclined to'pronounce
for the most"comprehensive sense, though we feel the
strength of the considerations whihh urge against it.
The allowance is called a "gratuity ", but it has useful
design., It is intended to attract- ability to the work and
purposes of the Government. It is a reward and accorded

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

necessarily at the enrollment of the ability which continued in utility upon whatever objects or for whatever
purposes exerted. It grew the greater as it was exercised
in experience, and we cannot ascribe to Congress the
intention to visit with the sdme consequence-penalty,
we may say-a continuation of service having such result
as a cessation of service. There was prompting and inducement to the reverse-prompting and inducement to
the policy and practice of giving assurance to officers and
men that the promotions they deserved and received
would not be regarded as of no benefit to the Govern-- m..ent-no more benefit than though they--:officers and
men-were disconnected from Government.
The Government contests this construction and the
judgment of the Court of Claims. Its contention is that
Slaymaker's resignation from the Naval Reserve Force
was a severance of lis connection i" with the service"
within the meaning of the Act of August 29, 1916, supra,
dnd that it was "without compulsion on part of the Government ", it being not only voluntary. but under the
admonition that the gratuity that had been granted him
would have -to be refunded, since he, was "leaving the
Reserve Force of his own volition and not by compulsion
on the-part of the Navy Department".
If the contention were relevant under our construction
of the act we should be reluctant to hold that his action
was voluntary and incurred the return of the gratuity.
July 1, 1918 (40 Stat. 711) Congress passed an act containing the following provision: "That no part of the
clothing gratuity credited to members of the Naval Reserve Force shall be deducted from their accounts where
said members accept or have accepted temporary appointinents in the Navy in time, of war or other national
emergeficy."
--This act was passed after the deduction from Slaymaker's pay. The Court 'f Claims considgred the act as

NEW ORLEANS CO. v. BROTT
94

Counsel for Parties.

a declaration of the meaning of the Act of August 29,
1916. The court strongly supports its holding. We,
however, may rest our decision on the meaning we have
assigned to the Act of August 29, 1916.
Judgment affirmed.
NEW ORLEANS LAND COMPANY v. BROTT ET AL.
BROTT ET AL.'v. NEW ORLEANS LAND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THKE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

Nos. 64 and 86. Argued October 10, 11, 1923.-Decided November

12, 1923.
1. The act of state officials in issuing a patent, under a state statute
empowering them generally to convey such land as passed to the
State under. a federal swamp land act, is not the exercise of an
"authority" under the State, within the meaning of that term in
the statute governing writs of error from this Court (September 6,
1916, ยง 2, 39 Stat. 726,) if the specific lands in the patent, by
reason of a prior Spanish grant and a treaty and laws of the
United States, were not iucluded in the swamp ldnd grant. P. 98.
2. The claim that a decision of a state court erred in. sustaining a
Spanish grant over the objections that it was not valid originally
and was not confirmed as required by act of Congressr-hdd,not
ground for a writ of error under the Act of September 6, 1916,
supra. P. 99.
Writs of error to review 151 La. 134, dismissed.

CRoss writs of error to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana in a petitory action for land.
Mr. Charles Louque for New Orleans Land Company.
Mr. William Winans Wall, with whom Mr. Charles
Schneidau was on the brief, for Brott et al.
MR.

JUSTICE

Court.
74308*-24-----7

HOLmms delivered

the opinion of the

