78

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

"\

Statement of the Case.

263 U.S.

BROWN ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. BROWN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IDAHO.

Nos. 97 and 98. Argued October 19, 1923.-Decided Nevember 12,
1923.
1. Where establishment of a reservoir under the Reclamation Act
involved flooding part of a town, the United States had constitutional power to take by condemnation other private land near by,
in the only practicable and available place, as a new townsite to
which the buildings affected could be moved at the expense of
the United States and new lots be provided in full or part satisfaction for those flooded. P. 81.
2. The fact that, as an incident of such a readjustment, there may
be some surplus lots of the new townsite which the Govcrnment
must sell, does not characterize the condemnation as a taking of
one man's property for sale to another. P. 82.
3. When the award in condemnation is for the value of the property
as of the date of the summons without regard to the damage arising
from the owner's inability to sell or lease during the proceedings,
and, under the applicable state law, the Government may obtain
possession promptly after bringing suit, interest from date of
summons to judgment may be allowed on the award, even though
the owner remained in possession, cultivating and gathering crops
meanwhile. P. 84.
4. While, semble, the Act of 1888, in directing federal courts to conform their practice and procedure in condemnation "as near as
may be" to that of the State where the property is, does not bind
them to follow state statutes allowing interest on the award,
interest in this case, at 7%, was properly included, in fixing just
,compensation. P. 86.
279 Fed. 168, affirmed.

WRITS of error, by both sides, to review a judgment of
the District Court in a condemnation case.
Mr. J. H. Peterson, with whom Mr.. T. C. Coffin was
on the brief, for Brown et al.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
78

Argument .'r Brown et al.

The United States is without power to condemn land
for 'the purposes of a town site under the circumstances
set out in the record.
, Under the most liberal definitions, the taking proposed
could not be construed to be for a public use.
"It is conceded on all hands that the legislature has not
power in any case to take the property of nne individual
and pass it over to another withouit ference to some use
to which it is to be applied for the public benefit."
Cooley's Const. Lim., 6th ed., p. 651.
The public use necessary cannot be found in the business speculation involved in the transaction. Nichols,
Eminent Domain, p. 178.
If there is any other purpose except a desire to salvage
a portion of the movable property in the old town site
and to reduce the expenditure for a public improvement,
it must be found in the solicitude of the Government for
the residents of the old town site. This likewise cannot
be'construed to be a public use, because, in any event, its
benefit accrues to a very limited number of people.
There would seem to be necessarily some limit beyond
which even the Federal Government should not be permitted to go in taking private property under an "exigency created by rapid development." Nichols, Eminent
Domain, p. 149; Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Cicero, 157
Il.48; Salisbury Land & Improvement *Co. v. Commonwealth, 215 Mass. 371; Jones v. Tatham, 20 Pa. St. 398;
Opinion of Justices, 204 Mass. 607: Richmond v. Carnel, 129 Va. 388.
Mr. W. W. Dyar, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHiEF JusTice. TAFT

Court.

delivered the opinion of the

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

These are cross writs of error to a judgment of the District Court of Idaho in a'condemnation case. The plaintiffs in error are owners of a tract of 120 acres, which was
the object of the suit by the United States. The jury
rendered a verdict of $6,250.00 for the plaintiffs, and the
court added $328.00 as interest at seven per cent., from the
date of the issuing of the summons to that of the judgment. The plaintiffs denied the power of the Congress
under the Federal Constitution to condemn the land because not taken for a public use. This entitled them to
come to this Court under § 238 of the Judicial Code; aid
so the United States sued out a cross writ of error to question the legality of including in the judgment the interest
item.
Plaintiffs' tract lies just outside -the present limits of
American Falls in Idaho. The town has 1,500 people and
is so situated in the valley of the Snake River that threefourths of the town, or 640 acres, will be flooded by the
waters of a reservoir which the United States proposes to
create, for irrigation of its arid public land, by damming
the waters of the river.
The Sundry Civil Act of March 4, 1921, c. 161, 41 Stat.
1367, 1403, appropriates'$1,735,000 in addition to an unexpended balance for the continuation of the construction
a.nd extension of the irrigation system called the Minidoka
Project, "with authority in connection with the cQnstruction of American Falls Reservoir, to purchase or condemn
and to improve suitable land for a new town site to replace
the portion of the town of American Falls which will be
flooded by the reservoir, and to provide for the removal
of buildings to such new site and to plat and to provide
for appraisal of lotsin such new town site and to exchange
and convey such lot i-fifll or part payment for property
to be flooded by tht reservoir and to sell for not less than
*the appraised valuation any lots not used for such
exchange."

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
78

Opinion of the Court.

The United States has purchased 410 acres for the new
town site and needs 165 acres more of which plaintiffs'
tract of 120 acres is part. Negotiations for purchase from
the plaintiffs failed, as they demanded$24,000.
The plaintiffs contend that the power of eminent
domain does not extend to the taking of one man's property to sell it to another, that such an object can not be
regarded as for a public use of the property, and, without
this, appropriation can have no constitutional validity.
The District Court held that the acquisition of the town
site was so closely connected with the acqfisition of the
district to be flooded and so necessary to the carrying out
of the project that the public use of the reservoir covered
the taking of the town site. We concur in this view.
The circumstances of this case are peculiar. An important town stood in the way of a necessary improvement by the United States. Three-quarters of its streets,
alleys and parks and of its buildings, public and private,
would have to be abandoned. The buildings could not be
moved except to the gradually rising ground east of the
Snake River. There was a bluff one hundred feet high on
the other side of the river. The tract of four hundred and
seventy-five acres selected for the new town site was the
only practical and available place to which the part of the
town to-be flooded could be moved so as to be united with
the one-quarter of the old town which would be left:
American Falls is a large settlement for that sparsely
settled country and it was many miles from a town of any
size in any direction. It was a natural and proper part
of the construction of the dam and reservoir to make provision for a substitute town as near as possible to the old.
one.
No one would say that a legislative act authorizing P
railway company to build a railroad exceeds the c,..
stitutional limit by reason of a specific provision that the
74308'-24---6-

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

company may condemn land not only for the right of way
but also additional land adjacent thereto for use as borrow
pits in making fills and embankments, or for use as spoil
banks or dumps for the earth excavated from tunnels and
cuts. Such adjacent land would certainly be devoted to
the public use for which the railway was being constructed.
If so, then the purchase of a town site on which to put the
people and buildings of a town that have to be ousted
to make.the bed of a reservoir would seem to be equally
within the constitutional warrant. The purchase of a site to
which the buildings of a town can be moved and salvaged
and the dispossessed owners be given lots in exchange for
their old ones is a reasonable adaptation of proper means
toward the end of the public use to which the reservoir is
to be devoted. The transaction is not properly described
as the condemnation of the land of one private owner to
sell it to another. The incidental fact that, in the. substitution and necessary adjustment of the exchanges, a
mere residuum of the town-site lots may have to be sold
does not change the real nature of what is done, which is
that of a mere transfer of the town from one place to.
another at the expense of the United States. The usual
and ordinary method of condemnation of the lots in the
old town, and of the streets and alleys as town property,
would be-ill adapted to the exigency. It would be hard to
fix a proper value-of homes in a town thus to be destroyed
without prospect of their owners' finding homes similarly
.situate on streets in another part of the same town or in
another town near at hand. It would be difficult to place
a proper estimate of the value of the streets and alleys to
.be destroyed and not to be restordd in kind. A town is
a-business center. It is a unit. If three-quarters of it
is to be destroye4 by appropriating it to an exclusive use
like a reservoir, all property owners, both those 6usted
and those in the remaining quarter, as well as the State,
whose subordinate agency of governnient is the munici-

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
78

Opinion of the Court.

pality, are injured. A method.of compensation by substitution would seem to be the best means of making the
parties whole. The power of condemnation is necessary
to such a substitution.
The circumstances of this case are so peculiar that it
would not be surprising if no precedent could be found to
aid us as an authority. There is one, however, which
presents a somewhat close analogy. In Pitznogle v.
Western Maryland R. R. Co., 119 Md. 673, a railroad
company condemned a piece of land for its tracks and
yards and in doing so appropriated a private, right of way
which was the only access of certain other land owners to
the public highway. It was held that the railway company could condemn an additional strip of land for a
substitute right of way to be furnished to these land
owners. In reaching this conclusion the court said:
"The condemnation of a part of this land, here sought
to be condemned, for a substitute private road or way is
incident to and results from the taking, by reason of
*public necessity, of the existing private road for public
use, and the use of it for such purposes should, we think,
be regarded as a public use within the meaning of the
Constitution"
Our conclusion is not in conflict with that, class, of
cases with which the Justices of the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts dealt in the Opinion of Justices,
204 Mass. 607. It was there proposed that the City of
Boston, in building a street through a crowded part of
the city, should be given power to condemn lots abutting
on both sides of the proposed street with a view to sale
of them after the improvement was made, for the promotion of the erection bf warehouses, mercantile establishments and other buildings suited to the demands of
trade and commerce. The Justices were of opinion that
neither the development of the private commerce of the
city nor the incidental profit which might enure to the

84

OCTOBER TERM1, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

city out of such a procedure could constitute a public use
authorizing condemnation. The distinction between
that case and this is that here we find that the removal
of the town is a necessary step in the public improvement itself and is not sought to be justified only as a way
for the United States to reduce the cost of the improvement by an outside land speculation.
.The remaining question in this case arises on .the
cross writ of error of the United States by which exception is taken to the court's having included in the judgment interest at-seven per cent. on the value of the property, as found by the jury, from the date of the issuing
of the summons until the date of the judgment. The
land remained in the possession of the owners up to date
of the judgment and they cultivated the land meantime
and gathered crops therefrom.
The District Court, in directing the jury, followed the
law of the State (§ 7415, Compiled Laws of Idaho, 1919;
§ 5221, Idaho Revised Codes, 1908) in which the land lay
and the court was sitting, as follows:
"For the purpose of assessing compensation and damages, the right thereto shall be deemed to have accrued
at the date of the summons, and its actual value, at that
date, shall be the measure of compensation for all propNo improvements put
erty to be actually taken. . .
to
the
date of the service
subsequent
the
property
upon
of summons shall be included in the assessment of compensation or damages."
The Idaho statute has been construed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit to justify the court
in adding interest upon the value fixed by the jury from
the date of the summons until the judgment. Weiser
Valley Land & Water Co. v. Ryan, 190 Fed. 417, 424.
The court said:
"Having such right to compensation at a given time,
it would seem that the owner ought to have interest up ,-

BROWN vJ. UNITED STATES.
78

Opinion of the Court.

the amount ascertained until paid. In the meanwhile he
can claim nothing for added improvements, nor is he
entitled to any advance that might affect the value of
the property."
Counsel for the United States cite against such a ruling
the case of Shoemaker v. United States, 147 U. S. 282,
321, wherein, in a District of Columbia condemnation,
there being no specific statute on .the subject, it was held
that no interest should bepaid to the owner until the taking. The court said:
"It is true that, by the institution of proceedings to
condemn, the possession and enjoyment by the cwner are.
to some extent interfered with. He can put no permanent improvements on the land, nor sell it, except subject
to condemnation proceedings. But the owner was in
receipt of the rents, issues, and profits during the time
occupied in fixing the amount to which he was entitled,
and the inconveniences to which he was subjected by the
delay are presumed to be considered and allowed for in
fixing the amount of the compensation. Such is the rule
laid down in cases of the highest authority."
This was followed in Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548,-598, in which Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the Court
in reference to the validity of a statute providing for
condemnation proceedings in the District of Columbia,
said:
"The payment of the damages to the owner of the land
and the vesting of the title in the United States are to be
contemporaneous. The Constitution does not require
the damages to be actually paid at any earlier time; nor
is the owner of the land entitled to interest pending the
proceedings."
In these cases, the value found was at the time of taking or vesting of title and the presumption indulged was
that the valuation included the practical damage arising
from the inability to sell or lease after the blight of the

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

summons to condemn. Where the valuation is as of the
date of the summons, however, no such elements can
enter into it and the allowance of interest from that time
is presumably made to cover injury of this kind to the
land owner pending the proceedings. It often happens
that in the delays incident to condemnation suits the loss
to the owner arising from the delay between the summons
and the vesting of title by judgment is a serious one.
The interest charge under the Idaho statute has the wholesome effect of stimulating the plaintiff in condemnation
to prompt action. Moreover the plaintiff may reduce to
a minimum the rents and profits enjoyed by the defendant because, under the Idaho statute, the plaintiff may
have a summary preliminary hearing before commissioners to fix probable damages and, by depositing the
amount so fixed with the clerk of the court, if the defendant will not accept it, the plaintiff may obtain immediate
possession. Within. less than a month after bringing
suit, he can thus appropriate to himself the rents and
profits of the land, and in enjoyment of them can await
the final judgment. Idaho Compiled Statutes, 1919, Vol.
2, § 7420; Idaho Revised Codes, 1908, Vol. 2, § 5226.
-I It is urged, however, that the federal conformity statute
as to condemnation suits, which directs federal courts to
conform the practice and procedure "as near'-as may.
be" to that of the courts of the State where the land is,
does not require or authorize the federal courts to- allow
interest to, th~e property holder except according to the
rule laid down in the Shoemaker Case, the Bauman Case,
SeaboardAir Line"Ry. o. v. United States, 261 U. S. 299,
305, and United States*v. Rogers, 255 U. S. 163, in all of
which interest was allowed only from the time of taking
or vesting of title; that this is a matter of substance which
a conformity statute was not intended to coyer, as appears
from the language of the opinions il the last two eases.
It will be observed, however, thgt in those twg cases the

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
78

Opinion of the Court.

allowance of interest did conform to the state statutes,
and that this was given by the Court as an additional
reason for sustaining its conclusion. It is doubtless true
that the conformity provision of the Act of 1888 does not
bind the federal coirts to follow the state statute in the
matter of interest. But the disposition of federal courts
should be to adopt the local rule if it is a fair one, and,
as already indicated, we are not able to say that with the
value fixed as of the date of summons, and*the opportunity afforded promptly thereafter to take possession,
interest allowed from the date of the summons is not a
provision making for just compensation. North Coast
R. R. Co. v. Aumiller, 61 Wash. 271, 274. In United
States v. Sargent, 162 Fed. 81, the Government condemned land in Minnesota for a post office. Under the
statute of that State the hearing was before three commissioners who were to report the damages sustained on
account of the taking. Unless this resulted in payment
and settlement, a hearing before a court or jury followed
and judgment was entered on that, and possession was
given on payment of the judgment, which included costs
and interest from the time of filing the commissioners'
report. The commissioners' report was filed June 12,
1907, the report was confirmed August 19, 1907, and interest was allowed from June 12th until the date when
the damages were paid into the registry of the court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals thought the rule a fair one.
Speaking by Judge Adams (162 Fed. 84), it said:
Considerable time may elapse after the commissioners fix the value of the land before i is ultimately
paid for. They can only fix it as of the :ime they act.
They can not say what it will be at any definite time in
the future. ,The value may for many reasons change
and the rental value may be materially affected by the
tenure of the owner rendered uncerthin by possible protrkcted litigation. Cofnsiderations'like these doulbtless"

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U.S.

f -_pted the Legislature of the state to provide that the
amount of the award should bear interest until paid as
the best and fairest available method of providing against
the possible consequences just suggested. Without holding that the requirement for payment of interest is one
of the 'modes of proceeding' which, by section 2 of the
act of August 1, 1888, is made compulsory upon the courts
of the United States, we are satisfied to conform to it as
a palpably fair and reasonable method of performing the
indispensable condition to the exercise of the right of
eminent domain, namely, of making'just compensation'
for the land as it stands, at the time of taking. 'The time
of taking' under the Minnesota statute, supra, is when
the payment is made for it. . . . It is better, when
possible, to act in harmony rather than in conflict with the
established policy of a state."
In the last opinion of this Court on the question of
interest in the appropriation of land by the United States,
that in SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. United States, 261 U. S.
299, 306, the case of United States v. Sargent and part of
the language above quoted is cited with approval.
Judgment affirmed.
SCHWAB v. RICHARDSON, AS TREASURER OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 81. Submitted October 15, 1923.--Decided November 12, 1923.
1.A State may tax the franchise of a corporation of its own creation
upon a valuation arrived at by deducting from the actual or market
value of its capital stock the value of its tangible property within
and without the State, by assigning, as the assessable and taxable
value within the State, such part of this differenae as is proportional to the business of the corporation transacted there, compared with its outside business, and by levying the tax upon a
percentage of this taxable value. P. 91.

