DES MOINES BANK v. FAIRWEATHER.

103

Syllabus.

DES MOINES NATIONAL BANK v. FAIRWEATHER, MAYOR; ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
No. 17. Argued October 3, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
1. National banks, their property, or the shares of their capital
stock, cannot be taxed by the States "otherwise than in conformity
with the terms and restrictions imposed by Congress in assenting
to such taxation. P. 106.
2. Under § 5219, Rev. Stats., (prior to the amendment of March 4,
1923,) national banks and their property were free from state
taxation, except on their real property and on shares held by them
in other national banks; and all shares in such banks were taxable
to their owners, the stockholders, subject to the restrictions that
they be not taxed higher than other moneyed capital, employed in
competition with such banks, and that the taxing of shares of
nonresidents of the State be at the place of the bank's location.
P. 107.
3. Where -under the state law the shares in a national bank are
assessed to the shareholders, and the property of the bank, other
than real estate, is expressly exempt, valuation of the shares by
the capital, surplus, and undivided earnings, less the real estate,
and requiring the bank, primarily, to pay the tax on the shares
on behalf of the shareholders, (while allowing it ample means of
reimbursement through a lien on the shares,) do not make the
tax on the shares in effect a tax on the bank's property, in violation
of § 5219, supra. P. 111.
4. In assessing shares in a national bank for taxation to the shareholders, no deduction need be made on account of securities of
the United States, exempt from state taxation, which are part of
the assets of the bank by which the value of the shares is measured,
since the shares are property of the shareholders, distinct from the
corporate assets. P. 112. Bank of California v. Richardson, 248
U. S. 476, distinguished.
5. The restriction that taxation of national bank shares "shall not
be at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital
in the hands of individual citizens" of the State, (Rev. Stats., §
5219,) is to prevent discrimination against national banks in favor
of state institutions or individuals engaged in similar business or

104

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

investments, and applies to rules of valuation as well as to tax percentages. P. 116.
6. This restriction, however, is not violated when tae 8tate, perforce,
deducts tax-exempt securities of the United States in assessing
capital employed in private banking, while taxing (as the act of

Congress allows) the value of the shares of national banks without
allowance for such tax-exempt securities owned by such banks. Id.
191 Iowa, 1240, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Iowa
sustaining an assessment upon shares of the plaintiff in
error Bank, in proceedings by way of appeal from the
action of a board of equalization.
Mr. J. G. Gamble, with whom Mr. R. L. Read
was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Ben J. Gibson, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, and Mr. John J. Halloran,with whom Mr. Maxwell
A. O'Brien and Mr. George F. Henry were on the brief,
for defendants in error.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was a proceeding begun by a national bank in
Iowa to secure a reduction in an assessment of the shares
of its capital stock for taxing purposes, made in 1919.
The proceeding was in the nature of an appeal from
the action of a board of equalization, and ultimately
reached the Supreme Court of the State. The bank objected that the board had proceeded on a mistaken construction of the state statute respecting such assessments
and that the statute, as construed and applied by the
board, was invalid in that it was in ccnflict with the state
constitution and with laws of the United States. The
objections were overruled and the assessment upheld.
191 Iowa, 1240. The bank then sued out this writ of
error.

DES MOINES BANK v. FAIRWEATHER.
103

105

Opinion of the Court.

The facts may be shortly stated. No assessment was
made against the bank, save of its real property. The
shares of its capital stock were assessed to their several
owners, the stockholders. The aggregate of the bank's
capital, surplus and undivided earnings, was taken as the
value of the shares, and from this the amount actually
invested in real property was deducted. A proportionate
part of the remaining sum was attributed to each share.
Among the bank's assets were various securities of the
United States, concededly exempted .from state taxation
by laws of the United States. There was also some stock
in a federal reserve bank, claimed to be likewise exempted. The bank sought to have'these securities and
this stock excluded in making the assessment; that is, to
have their value deducted from the total of the capital,
surplus and undivided earnings. The board declined to
make the deduction, and pursued a like course in assessing shares in corporate state banks. Among the bank's
competitors were some bank-s conducted by individuals,private bankng being admissible in that State. In assessing the moneyed capital employed by these private
bankers.in their banking business, the board excluded so
much thereof as was invested in non-taxable securities
of the United States. Twenty per cent. of each of the
assessments here described, whether of bank shares or
money employed' in private banking, was set down or
listed as the taxable value, as distinguished from the real
value. The tax levy was to be at a uniform rate on such
taxable value.
We are asked to go into the proper construction of
the state statute and its validity under the state constitution. But these are questions of local law, the decision
of which by the Supreme Court of the State is contrblling.
First National Bank of Garnett v. Ayers, 160 U. S. 660,
664; Merchants' and Manufacturers' National Bank v.
Pennsylvania, 167 U: S.-461; Lindsley v. Natural Car-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

bonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 73; Price v. Illinois, 238 U. S.
446, 451.
The only contentions made by the bank which we can
consider are, first, that the state statute in substance
commands an assessment of the property of the bank,
rather than the shares of the stockholders, contrary to the
terms of § 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States; secondly, that the statute, even if commanding
an assessment of the shares of the stockholders, subjects
securities of the United States and stock in a federal
reserve bank to state taxation in disregard of exemptions
arising out of laws of the United States, and, thirdly, that,
if the assessment be of the shares, the statute subjects
them to a higher rate of taxation than is laid on other
moneyed capital of individual citizens,-meaning the private bankers,-and thereby violates a restriction imposed
by § 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
It is settled that the ' relation of the national banks to
the United States and the purposes intended to be subserved by their creation are such that there can be no
'taxation, by or under state authority, of the banks, their
property or the shares of their capital stock otherwise
than in conformity with the terms and restrictions embodied in the assent given by Congress to such taxation.
People v. Weaver, 100 U. S. 539, 543; Rosenblatt v.
Johnston, 104 U. S. 462; Mercantile National Bank v.
New York, 121 U. S. 138, 154; Talbott v. Silver Bow
County, 139 U. S.438, 440; Owensboro National Bank v.
Owensboro, 173 U. S. 664, 669; First National Bank of
Gulfport v. Adams, 258 U. S.362.
The congressional assent and the terms and restrictions
accompanying it as existing at the time of this-assessment
are found in Rev. Stats., § 5219, which reads as follows':
'Several important changes in § 5219 were made by an amendatory
Act of March 4, 1923, c. 267, 42 Stat. 1499, but they have no bearing

on this case.

"DESMOINES BANK v. FAIRWEATHER.
103

107

Opinion of the Court.

"Nothing herein shall prevent all the shares in any
association from being included in the valuation of the
personal property of the owner or holder of such shares,
in assessing taxes imposed by authority of the State
within which the association is located; but the legislature of each State may determine and direct the manner
and place of taxing all the shares of national banking
associations located within the State, subject only to the
two restrictions, that the taxation shall not be at a greater
rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of such State, and that the
shares of any national banking association owned by nonresidents of any State shall be taxed in the city or town
where the bank is located, and not elsewhere. Nothing
herein shall be construed to exempt the real property of
associations from either State, county, or municipal taxes,
to the same extent, according to its value, as other real
property is taxed."
This section shows, and the decisions under it hold, that
what Congress intended was that national banks and their
property should be free from taxation under state authority, other than taxes on their real property and on shares
held by them in other national banks; and that all shares
in such banks should be taxable to their owneis, the stockholders, much as other personal property is taxable, but
subject to the restriction that the shares be not taxed
higher than other taxable moneyed capital employed in
competition with such banks, and to the further restriction that the taxing of the shares of non-residents of the
State be at the place where the bank is located. People
v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244; Bank of Redemption v.
Boston, 125 U. S. 60, 69; Mercantile National Bank t.
New York, supra; Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, supra; Bank of Californiav. Richardson, 248 U. S.
476; First National Bank of Gulfport v. Adams, supra.
With this understanding of the terms and restrictions
of the congressional assent we proceed to an examination

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S:

of the state statute and the particulars in which it is said
to be in conflict with them and with tax-exempting laws
of the United States. The main provisions of the statute
are fouiid in §§ 1310, 1322, 1322-la and 1325 of the Code
of Iowa,2 which read as follows:
"Sec. 1310. . . .. All moneyed capital within the
nieaning of section fifty-two hundred nineteen of the revised statutes of the .United States shal be listed and
assessed against the owner thereof at his place of business,
and if a corporation at its principal place of business, at
the same rate as state, savings, national bank and loan
and trust company stock is taxed, in the same taxing district, and at the actual value of the moneyed capital so
invested. . The person or corporation using moneyed
capital in competition with bank capital shall furnish the
assessor up9n demand a full and complete itemized sworn
statement showing the amount of moneyed capital so
used."
"Sec. 1322. Shares of stock of national banks and state
and savings bAnks, andloan and trust companies, located
in this state, shall be assessed to the individual stockholders at the place where the bank or loan and trust company is located. At the time the assessment is made the
officers of national banks and state and savings banks and
loan and trust companies shall furnish the assessor with
lists of. all the stockholders and the number of shares
owned by each and the assessor shall list to" each stockholder under the head of corporation stock the total value
of such shares. To aid the assessor in fixing the value of
such shares the said corporation shall furnish him a verified statement of all the matter provided in section
thirteen hundred twenty-one of the supplement to the
code 1907, which shall also show separately the amount of
.The reference is to the Code as amended April 6, 1911, Laws 34th
General Assembly, p. 45,--the amendments being shown in the
sapplemen of 1913.

DES MOINES BANK v. FAIRWEATHEI'.
103

109

Opinion of the Court.

the capital stock and the surplus and undivided earnings,
and the assessor from such statement shall fix the value
of such stock based upon the capital, surplus, and undivided earnings. In arriving at the total value of the
shares of stock of such corporations, the amount of their
capital actually invested in real estate owned by them
and ii the shares of stock of corporations owning only the,
real estate (inclusive of leasehold interest, if any,) on or.
in which the bank or trust company is located, shall be
deducted from the real value of such shares, and such real
estate shall be assessed as other real estate, and the property of such corporation shall not be otherwise assessed.
A refusal to furnish the assessor with the list of stockholders and the information required under this section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor and any bank or officer
thereof so refusing shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollats."
"Sec. 1322-1a. For the purpose of placing the taxation of bank and loan and trust company stock and
moneyed capital as nearly as possible upon a taxable
value relatively equal to the taxable value at which other
property is now actually assessed throughout the state
as compared with the actual value thereof, it-is hereby
provided that state, savings and national bank stock and
loan and trust company stock and moneyed capital shall
be assessed and taxed upon the taxable value of -twenty
per cent. of the actual value thereof, determined ,as
herein liroVided, which twenty per cent. of the actual
value shall be taken and considered as the taxable value
and shall be taxed as other property in such taxing district."
"Sec. 1325. The corporations described in the preceding sections shall be liable for the payment. of the taxes
assessed to the stockholders of such corporations, and
such tax shall be payable by the corporation in the same
manner and under the same penalties as in case of taxes

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263

U. S.

due from an individual taxpayer, and may be collected
in the same manner as other taxes, or by action in the
name of the county. Such corporations may recover
from each stockholder his proportion of the taxes so paid,
and shall have a lien on his stock and unpaid dividends
therefor. If the unpaid dividends are not sufficient to
pay such tax, the corporation may enforce such lien on
the stock by public sale of the same, to be made by the
sheriff at the principal office of such corporation in this
state, after giving the stockholders thirty days' notice
of the amount of such tax and the time and place of
sale, such notices to be by registered letter addressed to
the stockholder at his post-office address, as the same
appears upon the books of the company, or is known -by
its secretary."
Section 1321 referred to in § 1322 relates to the assessment of capital employed in private banking. For present purposes it may be described as requiring the banker
to submit to the assessor a sworn statement of the assets
and liabilities of his bank with a particular description of
such of the assets as are exempt from taxation, and as
directing an assessment based on the aggregate valu of
moneys and credits less deposits, of bonds and stocks less
such as are otherwise taxed in the State and of the other
property pertaining to the business, but omitting the real
estate, which is to be specially assessed as other real
estate. The section does not purport to create any exemption or to do more in that regard than possibly to
imply that exemptions otherwise created are to be respected. In practice the assessing officers when assessing
the capital- of private banks do deduct so much thereof
as is invested in tax-exempt securities of the United
States, but they do this because they regard it as necessary under the tax-exempting laws of the United States.
As construed by the Supreme Court of the State, the
statute as a whole contemplates, and § 1322 requires, that

DES MOINES BANK v. FAIRWEATHER.
103

111

Opinion of the Court.

'the shares be assessed to the stockholders as their property; and as illustrating that the statute makes a clear
distinction between the shares and the property of the
bank, the court points to the provision which requires.
that the real estate be assessed against the bank and to
the succeeding provision which declares that "the property of such corporation shall not be otherwise assessed."
This, without more, seems completely to refute the contention that what the statute really directs is an assessment of the bank's property instead of the stockholders'
shares. The only argument advanced in support of the
contention is drawn from the fact that the capital, surplus and undivided earnings of the bank are made the
measure of the value of the shares (see First National
Bank of Remsen v. Hayes, 186 Iowa, 892, 900), and from
the fact that the bank is required primarily to pay the
tax on. the shares. In our opinion neither fact gives
color to the contention.
The value of the shares must depend chiefly on the
capital, surplus and undivided earnings of the bank.
These are the substantial elements and are susceptible
of ready ascertainment. Other possible elements are of
relatively small weight and difficult of estimation. That
controlling consideration is given to the former and none
to the latter may result in .an under-valuation, but it
does not make the assessment any the less an assessment
of the shares. Besides, it hardly lies with the -stockholders
or the bank to object that the assessment is too low.
Stanley v. Supervisors of Albany, 121 U. S.535, 549.
While the bank is required primarily to pay .the tax on
the shares, the statute (§ 1325) shows that the payment
is to be on behalf of the stockholders and that the bank
is accorded ample means of enforcing reimbursement
from them. It is on the stockholders that the burden
ultimately rests. This mode of collecting through the
-Dank the tax against the stockholders has been widely

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

adopted and this court' has pronounced it not inconsistent
with the terms of the congressional assent. NationalBank
v. Coninonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, 361; Aberdeen Bank v.
Chehalis County, 166 U. S. 440, 444; Covington v. First
.National Bank, 198 U. S. 100, 111-112; First National
Bank of Gulfport v. Adams, supra.
The next contention-that the statute subjects securities of the United States to taxation contrary to exempting laws of the United States in that it requires that the
assessment be based on the aggregate of -the capital, surplus and undivided earnings without any deduction or
allowance on account of the investment in such securities-confuses the shares, which are the property of the
siockholders, with the corporate assets, which are the
property of the bank. It is quite true that the States
may not tax such securities, but equally true that they
may tax the shares in a corporation to their owners, the
stockholders, although the corporate assets consist largely
of such securities, and that in- assessing the shares it is
not necessary to deduct what is invested in the securities.
The difference turns on the distinction between the corporate assets and the shares,-the one belonging to the
corporation as an artificial entity and the other to the
stockholders. As respects national banks, the rule is the
same as with corporations in general. The subject was
extensively considered by this court in Van Allen v. The
Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, which involved the power of a
State to tax stockholders in national banks on their shares
without making any deduction on account of tax-exempt
bonds of the United States in which the capital of the
banks was chiefly invested. In sustaining the power, the
court said, p. 583:
"The tax on the shares is not a tax on the capital of
the bank. , The corporation is the legal owner of all the
property of the bank, real and personal; and within the
powers conferred upon it by the charter, and for the pur-

DES MOINES BANK v. FAIRWEATHER.
103

113-.

Opinion of the Court.

poses for which it was created, can deal with the corporate
property as absolutely as a private individual can dal
. .
The individual members of the
with his own.
corporation are no doubt interested in one sense in the
property of the corporation, as they may derive individual
benefits from its increase, or loss from its decrease; but
in no legal sense are the individual members the owners.
"The interest of the shareholder entitles him to participate in the net profits earned by the bank in the employment of its capital, during the existence of its charter,
in proportion to the number of his shares; and, upon its
dissolution or termination, to his proportion of the property that may remain of the corporation after the payment of its debts. This is a distinct independent interest
or property, held by the shareholder like any other property that may belong to him. Now, it is this interest
which the act of Congress has left subject to taxation by
the States, under the limitations prescribed, as will be
seen on referring to it."
Then, after noticing the use made of the term "shares"
in other parts of the act, the court added, p. 588:
"In all these instances, it is manifest that the term as
used means the entire interest of the shareholder; and it
would be singular, if in the use of the term in the connection of State taxation, Congress. intended a totally
different meaning, without any indication of such intent.
"This is an answer to the argument that the term, as
used here, means only the interest of the shareholder as
representing the portion of the capital, if any, not invested in the bonds of the government, and that the State
assessors must institute all inquiry into the investment of
the capital of the bank, and ascertain what portion is
invested in these bonds, and mak6 a discrimination hixfhe
assessment of the shares. If Congress had intended ny
such discrimination, it would have been an easy'matter to
74308°24----8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

have said so. Certainly, so grave and important a change
in the use of this term, if so intended, would not have
been left to judicial construction.
"Upon the whole, after the maturest consideration
which we have been able to give to this case, we are
satisfied that the States possess the power to tax the whole
of the interest of the shareholder in the shares held by
him in these associations, within the limit prescribed by
the act authorizing their organization."
That ruling often has been reaffirmed, but never qualified, and is now settled law in this court. People v. Commissioners,4 Wall. 244; National Bank v. Commonwealth,
supra,.p. 359; Palmer v. McMahon, 133 U. S. 660, 666;
Bank of Commerce v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 134, 146;
New Orleansv. Citizens' Bank, .167 U. S. 371, 402; Owensboro National Bank v. Owensboro, supra, p. 681; Home
Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 518. The
latest application of the ruling was at the last term in
People's NationalBank of Kingfisher v. Board of Equalization, 260 U. S. 702, where a decision of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma, 79 Okla. 312, which had followed Van
Allen v. The Assessors, was affirmed "upon the authority
of" that case and National Bank v. Commonwealth.
Counsel for the bank regard the case of Bank of California v. Richardson, 248 U. S. 476, as qualifying Tan
Allen v. The Assessors and other cases which reaffirmed
and applied ite ,ling. But the case is not fairly open to
that interpretation. Some expressions are found in the
opinion which, if taken literally and alone, seem to treat
the stockholders and the bank as one for taxing purposes;
but the opinion as a whole and the ultimate decision
demonstrate that these expressions fairly cannot be taken
in that way and that there was no purpose to qualify the
ruling so often announced and applied in earlier cases.
That case was exceptional in its facts. A national bank
owning shares in two other banks, one national and the

DES MOINES BANK v. FAIRWEATHER.
103

115

Opinion of the Court.

other state (see § 5154, Rev. Stats.), was taxed on those
shares. Its stockholders were also taxed on their shares
in it,-their shares being taxed on a valuation which took
into account all the assets of the bank, other than real
estate, including its shares in the other banks. The bank
objected to being taxed on its shares in the state bank and
also to its stockholders being taxed on a valuation of their
shares based in part on its shares in the other banks,-the
ground of each objection being that the tax was not in
accord with the terms and spirit of the congressional assent. The decision shortly stated was as follows: 1: The
bank was wrongly taxed on its shares in the state bank;
but those shares were rightly taken into account in valuing the shares of the stockholders., 2. The bank was
rightly taxed on its shares in the other national bank, for
the reasons given in Bank of Redemption v. Boston, 125
U. S.60, 69-70. 3. The shares in the other national bank
were wrongly taken into account in valuing the shares of
the stockholders, becausQ the provision under which they
were taxed to the bank was intended to be exclusive and
to prevent the values in the shares from being made, directly or indirectly, a basis for any other or further taxation. On the first and second points, the members of fthe
court were all in accord, but on the third there was a
strong dissent,-the matter in difference being whether
the State, consistently with the terms and spirit of the
congressional assent, could tax the shares in the hands of
the bank which owned them, and also subject the values
in them to another tax laid on the bank's stockholders.
The difference was resolved against the further taxation
because of what was deemed an implicit restriction in the
congressional assent. There had been no prior decision
on that point, and it is not involved in the case now under
consideration.
What has been said respecting the tax-exempt securities among the bank's assets disposes -of the contention

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

relating to its stock in a federal reserve b ank. If, as is
insisted, the stock was exempt, it was to be treated and
considered in the same way that the securities were.
And whether exempt or not, there was no authority for
taxing it to the bank, but only for taking it into account
in valuing the shares of the stockholders..
The contention that the state statute subjects shares
in a national bank to a higher rate of taxation than, is
laid. on other moneyed capital in the hands of individual
citizens is rested on the -fact that in assessing capital
employed in private banking the part invested in taxexempt securities of the United States is dedicted, while
in assessing nation-l bank shares the bank's investment in
such securities is not deducted.
The provision found in the congressional assent, that
the taxation of the shares "shall not be at a greater rate
than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands
of individual citizens of such State," has been considered
by this court so many times that its purpose and meaning have come to be pretty well understood. Its main
purpose is to render it impossible for the State, in levying such a tax, to create and foster an unequal and unfriendly competition, by favoring institutions or individuals carrying on a business similar to that of national
banks or engaging in operations and investments of a like
character; and the restriction comprehends a discrimination effected through rules for fixing valuations quite as
much as one effected by using different percentages in
computing taxes on fixed valuations. People'v. Weaver,
100 U. S. 539, 545; Mercantile National Bank v. New
York, 121 U. S. 138, 155; Amoskeag Savings Bank v.
-Purdy, 231 U. S.373, 385.
- Our concern here is not with a voluntary refusal or
-intentional omission on the part of the State to tax other
moneyed capital of citizens as it taxes national bank
shares, but with a submission by the State to superior

DES MOINES BANK v. FAIRWEATHER.
103

117

Opinion of the Court.

laws of the United States exempting a part of the other
moneyed capital from state taxation. It may be helpful
to state the matter in another way. National bank shares
are taxable,-made so by the congressional assent. That
much or little of the bank's assets consists of tax-exempt
securities of the United States does not affect the taxability of the shares,-they being distinct from the corporate assets. The State taxes such shares without regard
to the exempt government securities held by the bank.
The capital of private bankers is taxable, save the part
invested in exempt government securities. The State
taxes all of that capital, save the exempt securities. They
are exempt because the United States makes them so, and
the State merely respects the exemption. In what is
thus done does the State discriminate against national
bank shares and in favor of other moneyed capital in the
sense of the restriction? The question is not new; nor
can it be regarded as an open one in this court.
In People v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244, the question
was whether, in the presence of the restriction, a State
could assess and tax to their owners shares in national
banks without making any deduction on account of taxexempt securities of the United States held by the banks,
when in taxing moneyed capital of individuals employed
in competition with those banks such a deduction was
made. The court gave an affirmative answer to the question, saying, p. 256:
"The answer is, that upon a true construction of this
clause of the act, the meaning and intent of the lawmakers were, that the rate of taxation of the shares should
be the same, or not greater, than upon the moneyed capital of the individual citizen which is subject or liable to
taxation.- That is, no greater proportion or percentage of
tax in the valuation of the shares should be levied-than
upon other moneyed taxable capital in the hands of the
citizens.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

""This rule seems to be as effectual a test to prevent
unjust- discrimination against the shareholders as could
well be devised. It embraces a class which constitutes
the body politic of the State, who make its laws and provide for its taxes. They can not be greater than the
citizens impose upon themselves. It is known as sound
policy that, in every well-regulated and enlightened state
or government, certain descriptions of property, and also
certain institutions-such as churches, hospitals, academies, cemeteries, and the like-are exempt from taxation; but these exemptions have never been regarded as
disturbing the rates of taxation, even where the fundamental law had ordaified that it should be uniform.
"The objection is a singular one. At the time Congress enacted this rule as a limitation against discrimination, it was well known to that body that these securities
in the hands of the citizen were exempt from taxation.
It had been so'held by this court, and, for abundant caution, had passed into a law.
"The argument founded on the objection, if it proves
anything, proves that these securities should have been
taxed in the hands of individuals to equalize the taxation;
and, hence, that Congress by this clause in the proviso
intended to subject them, as thus situated, to taxation;
and, therefore, there was error in the deduction. This
we do not suppose is claimed. But. if this is -not the
result of the argument, then; the other conclusion from it
is, that Congress required that the commissioners should
deduct the securities, and at the same time intended the
deduction, if made, should operate as a violation of. the
rate of the tax prescribed. We dissent from both conclusions."
That view of the mhatter has been adopted and given
effect in all subsequent cases presenting the question.
Lionbergerv. Rouge, 9 Wall. 468, 475; Hepburn v. School
Directors, 23 Wall. 480, 485; Adams v. Nashville, 95 U. S.

ST. JOHNS CORP. v. COMPANHIA GERAL, ETC. 119
103

Statement of the Case.

19, 22; Mercantile National Bank v. New York, 121 U. S.
138, 149, 161. Counsel for the bank regard Van Allen v.
The Assessors, supra,p. 581, as making for the other view.
But that it does not do so is plainly pointed out in Mercantile National Bank v. New York, supra, p. 152. We
perceive no reason for disturbing prior decisions on the
point.
Our conclusion is that none of the objections urged
against.the state statute is well taken.
Judgment affirmed.
ST. JOHNS N. F. SHIPPING CORPORATION,
OWNER, &c. v. S. A. COMPANHIA GERAL COMMERCIAL DO RIO DE JANEIRO. "
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 43.

Argued October 4, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.

1. A preliminary freight reservation agreement for carriage of goods
"on or under deck, ship's option," and subject "to terms of bills
of lading in use by steamer's agents," gives the ship an option as
to place of stowage; and, in the absence of a general port custom
to the contrary, the issuance thereafter of a clean bill of lading
amounts to a positive representation by the ship that the option
has been exercised and that the goods will go under deck. P. 123.
2. Where rosin shipped under a'clean bill of lading was stowed on
deck, and was jettisoned during thd'voyage to relieve the ship in
a storm, held, that the ship was liable as for a deviation, could not escape by.reason of relieving clauses in the bill, and must pay
damages measured by the value of the goods at destination. P. 124.
280 Fed. 553, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of t6e'District Court, in admiralty, awarding damages againist a ship for loss of cargo.*

Mr. Clarence Bishop Smith, with whom Mr. Henry M.
Hewitt was on the brief, for petitioner.

