EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
Argument for the United States.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF THE UNITED
STATES, AS OWNER OF NINETEEN BARGES
AND FOUR TOWBOATS, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR A WRIT OF PROHIBITION.

No. 23, Original. Argued on return to rule to show cause November
19, 20, 1923,-Decided December 10, 1923.
A suit in the District Court against federal officials involving the
plaintiff's rights to personal property under leases from the United
States and to an injunction preventing the defendants from faking

it from his poss&ssion, should not be restrained by'a writ of prohibition from this Court, upon the ground that the suit in effect
is against the United States, where the questions of property and
possession presented are doubtful, and wlere," if they be erroneously decided, the remedy by appeal from the District Court will
be adequate. P. 392.
Rule discharged; petition denied.
APPLICATION by the United States for the writ of prohibition to restrain the District Court from entertaining
further jurisdiction over a suit against federal officers,
which was alleged to be in effect a suit against the United
States and its propert ;.

Mr. Lon 0. Hocker, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Attorney General Daugherty
and Mr. Solicitor General Beck were on the brief, for. the,
United States.
Right to prohibition: Naganab v. H.itchcouN, 202 U. S.
473; Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 167; In, re Rice, 155
U. S. 396; Ex parte Simons, 247 U. S. 231; Ex parte State
of New York, 256 U. S. 490; Ex parte Chicago, R. I: &
P. Ry. Co., 255 U. S. 273; Ex parte Peterson, 253 U. S.
300.
The suit in question is against the United States.
Louisianav. McAdpo, 234 U. S. 627; Wells v. Roper, 246
U. S. 335; Hagood v. Southern, 117 U. S. 52; In re Ayers,

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

123 U. S. 443; The Siren, 7 Wall. 152; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. '60; Naganab v. Hitchcock, 202 U. S. 473;
Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255; Carrv. United States,
98 U. S. 433; Louisiana v. Garfield, 211 U.,S..70; New
Mexico v. Lane, 243 U. S. 52; Goldberg v. Daniels, 231
U. S. 218; Belknap v. Schild) 161 U. S.10. Philadelphia
Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605,. distinguihed.
Mr. Joseph T. Davis and Mr. Douglas W. Robert, with
whom Mr. Charles Claflin Allen was on the brief, for
respondents.
Mr. JuSTICE MCIENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Motion on part of the United States, as asserted owner
of nineteen barges and four towboats, praying a,writ of
prohibition to be directed to the Hon. C. B. Faris, a Judge
of the District Court, Eastern Division of the Eastern
Judicial District of Missouri, and the other Judgeg thereof,
to prohibit him and them from asserting and exercising
jurisdiction in a certain suit brought March 25, 1923, by
Edward F. Goltra against John W. Weeks, Secretary of
War, and other officers of the United States, in which it
was averred that a contract was made between the United
States, represented by Major General William IM: Black,
Chief of Engineers of the'United States Army, as lessor,
and Goltra, as lessee, whereby the boats and barges, then
under construction by the United States, were leased and
chartered to Goltra for the period of five years from the
date of delivery of the boats and barges to him, Goltra,
upon the payment of certain periodical rentals and a compliance by Goltra of other terms and conditions.
The suit by Goltra, the 'pleadings in which are detailed
in the petition, was brought to determine his rights under
the contract and a supplement to it.
The contract was preceded by negotiations between
Goltra and representatives of the Government, particu-

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
389

Opinion of the Court.

larly with the War Department and the then Secretary of
War, which included among other things the construction
of a fleet of towboats and barges in the then emergency
of war. But after the signing of the Armistice, when the
emergency of war had ceased, other negotiations were had
between Goltra and the War Department and the Secretary of War, and a lease was made, the contract above,
whereby the boats and barges were leased to Goltra, by
him to be operated on the Mississippi River and its tributaries as a common carrier, he to pay all operating expenses, to take out fire and marine insurance, and incur
and discharge other obligations.
On May-26, 1921, the supplement to the contract was
entered into between Major General Beach, then Chief
of Engineers of the United States Army, the successor of
Black.
On March 3, 1923, Weeks as Secretary of War undertook to cancel the contract for the non-compliance by
Goltra, as lessee, with its terms and conditions, and demanded the return of the boats and barges to the United
States, and the defendants on March 25, 1923, unlawfully
took possession of some, and were about to take possession
of the remainder of them.
There 'was a prayer by Goltra for a temporary restraining order against such action, or against any action interfering with his possession. There was also a prayer for a
temporary injunction against any act whatsoever looking
to the cancellation and termination of the lease, or the
retention of the boats and barges taken before the attempted cancellation of the contract. The prayer was,
that, upon final hearing, a'decree be entered in favor of
Goltra to determine his rights under the contract and to
perpetually enjoin the defendants from interfering in any
way with his rights thereunder.
A mandatory order was issued as prayed, and an order
to show cause why a temporary injunction should not be
issued.

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S

In response to the order to show cause the Attorney
General filed suggestions against the jurisdiction of the
court, and.§ubsequently the other defendants made returfhs to the order averring that the suit was, in purpose
and effect, one against the United States and its property.
A motion was made in accordance with the reprdsentations. It-was overruled, and the defendants granted time
to plead.
It is alleged in the petition that unless restrained the
District Court Judge will proceed with the cause and issue
an injunction as prayed by Goltra, 'and that such order
will deprive the United States of the possession. and use
of boats and -barges of the value approximately, of

$3,800,000.
Prohibition was prayed as above stated.
The return of, Judge Faris to the petition concedes
some of its allegations and denies others. It denies the
character ascribed to GoltrAs suit. It alleges that there
is a right of possession of the boats and barges in Goltra,
and that while his bill was in course of preparation the
defendants in the suit were proceeding with a large force
of men to take from him and remove from St. Louis the
boats and barges that remained in his possession. And
that the suit was not one against the United States but
against individual defendants who were proceeding in
violation of law. And -it is averred that there is an adequate remedy by appeal.
The answer of Goltra to the'petition is presented with
elaborate detail bf fact and argument. In foundation
and essence it is the same as that of the District Court.
The opinion of the court,'which was oral, is attached to
it. The opinion cites that.--of Judge Baker in United
States Harness Co. v. Graham, in the District.Court for
the-Northern District of West Virginia, 288. Fed. 929.
The merits of the ease present interesting questions.
The question of the remedy is, hoWever, the more insistent. Does the case justify it? Prohibition is a remedy

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
389

Opinion of the Court.

of exigency and in exclusibn of other process of relief. It
is directed against unwarranted assumptions of jurisdiction or excesses of it. In some cases there may be instant
judgment that such is the situation and the writ granted.
In other cases there may be doubt and tle writ denied.
Ex parte Muir, 254 U. S: 522, 534. And doubt in the
instant case would seem to be justified, for two District
Courts have decided that, under circumstances such as
presented in this case, it does nft involve or constitute a
suit against the United States. And also the writ is to
be denied if theie be remedy against the, action complained of by appeal.
Ex parte Oklahoma, 220 t, S. 191, and cases cited, is
a complete exposition of the writ and its uses. The opinion in that case observed the distinctions of prior cases,
that is, that the writ is a remedy against unwarranted
assumptions of jurisdiction and that, besides, the condition of its issue is that the party attacking the jurisdiction has no other remedy. In other words, the writ cannot be made to perform the. office of an appeal or writ of
error. Are the decisions applicable here?
There was submitted to the court the contracts and
their construction and effect-whether under them the
United States or its.officers retained property in the boats
and barges or whether that property was transferred with
the right of possession to Goltra. The court so construed
them, adjudging Goltra8 right to the property and, nec-.
essarily, his right to the possession of it, and that he was
entitled to an injunction to protect that possession pending the suit. From that decision there was right of review by appeal, and it would be timely and adequate for
relief if the decisionwere erroneous. Judicial Code, § 129;
U. S. Fidelity &6GuarantyCo. v. Bray, 225 U. S. 205,214;
Denver v. New York Trust Co., 229 U. S. 123, 136;
Ex parte Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 255
U. S. 273.
Writ denied.

