586

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

263 U. S.

used in the conduct of the litigation. We think that the
circumstances put this case in the category with New
Hampshire v. Louisiana, Missouri v. Illinois, and New
York v. New Jersey, and that the costs should be taxed
agaihst North Dakota, the defeated party.
Itisso ordered.
DELANEY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR T'HE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 354. Argued January 3, 1924.-Decided January 21, 1924.
-

1. A district judge is not disqualified by Jud. Cdde, ยง 120, from sitting
in the Circuit Court of Appeals upon review of a conviction for
*conspiracy involving no question that had been considered by him
in the District Court, merely because he had overruled a motion to
quash the indictment made by a co-defendant of the plaintiff in
error, Who was not tried, and in- another case, of like character but
not involving the plaintiff in error, had overruled a like motion, presided at the trial and sentenced a defendant. P. 588.
2. Where District Court and Circuit Court of Appeals concurred in
sustaining a verdict of conviction as founded on sufficient testimony,
held that this Court would not regxamine the question. P, 589.
3. On a prosecution for conspiracy, testimony of one conspirator as to
what a deceased co-conspirator had told him during the progress
of the conspiracy, is admissible against a third, in the sound discretion of the trial judge. P. 590.
Aiffirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a conviction and sentence, in a prosecution
for conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition Act.
Mr. David V. Cahill, with whom Mr. Laurence M. Fine
and Mr. Elijah N. Zoline were on the brief, for petitioner.,
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mrs.

DELANEY v. UNITED STATES.
586

587

'Opinion of the Court.

Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General,
and Mr. Mahlon D. Kiefer were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR: JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals to review a
judgment of that court affirming a conviction and judgment of petitioner upon two indictments in which he was
charged, with others, with a conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition Act. The overt acts manifesting the
conspiracy and accomplishing it were enumerated.
The indictments were numbered 348H1 and 350H1. The
defendants in No. 348 were Thomas A. Delaney; Joseph
Ray; Joseph Dudenhoefer, sr.; Joseph Dudenhoefer, jr.;
Joseph Dudenhoefer Company, a, corporation; Joseph
Guidice. The defendants in No. 350 were the same parties
as above, with the addition of Walter M. Burke.
The Dudenhoefers pleaded guilty, Guidice died, and
Burke was not tried. Delaney, petitioner, and Ray were
alone proceeded against, the indictments being consolidated for the purpose of trial and resulting in a verdict of
guilty upon which there was a judgment of imprisonment
in the penitentiary for two years and a fine of $10,000
imposed.'
Both defendants joined in a writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, composed of Judges Baker, Evans and
,Page. The court affirmed the judgment without opinion.
A pktition for rehearing was made by petitioner (Ray
not joining), based on the ground that he was convicted
upon inadmissible and uncorroborated hearsay testimony;
the insufficiency of the evidence otherwise to establish his
guilt, and that he was deprived of a fair trial by the attitude of the trial judge. The petition was denied.
Thereupon, a petition was filed to vacate the orders
theretofore entered and to set the case for reargument"

588

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

The petition recited the fact of the indictments and the
proceedings and conviction upon them, and that certain
other indictments were filed charging one Arthur Birk
and others with violation of the Prohibition Act, and that
Birk made a motion to quash the indictment, which motion was heard, considered and denied by Evan A. Evans,
one of the judges of the District Court. It was further
represented that a motion was made by Walter /.Burke,
a co-defendant with petitioner, to quash the indictment
against him, Burke, which was also heard by Judge Evans
and denied by him. .It was further represented that Birk was placed on trial
before Judge Evans, found guilty and sentenced to confinement in a penitentiary and to pay a fine, and that after
the proceedings thus detailed, including those against pefitioner, Judge Evans sat with the other judges who had
presided at the trials, and took part in their deliberations
respecting the penalties to be inflicted upon petitioner and
his co-defendants. That Judge Evans was also one of the
judges in the imposition of penalties upon the various
defendants.
It was represented that by reason of the participation of
Judge Evans as thus detailed, he became and was disqualified to sit in the Circuit Court of Appeals and that the
order of that court purporting to affixm the judgment of
the District Court was entered without jurisdiction and
r was void, and that a rehearing and reconsideration of the
case should have been ordered."
In support of the motion, ยง 120 of the Judicial Code was
cited. Its provision is as follows: "That no judge before
whom a cause or question may have been tried or heard in
a district court, or existing circuit court, shall sit on the
trial or hearing of such cause or question in the Circuit
Court of Appeals."
The section seems not to have attracted the attention or
appreciation of petitioner until he had experimented with

DELANEY v. UNITED STATES.
586

Opinion of the Court.

other means of review and relief from the conviction adjudged against him. It may be that he did not thereby
waive the section which may express a policy and solicitude in the law to keep its tribunals free from bias or prejudgment, rather than to afford a remedy to a litigant, yet
it would seem that he should not be permitted to assume
the competency of the tribunal to decide for him and its
incompetency to decide against him. His action certainly
suggests the idea that it was an afterthought with him
that he was at any time in the situation from which the
section was intended to relieve. And was he? It will be
observed that the section precludes a judge or justice
-before whom a" cause or question may have been tried or
heard" to "sit on the trial or hearing of such cause or
question in the Circuit Court of Appeals." These words
have received exposition in Rexford v. Brunswick-Balke
Co., 228 U. S. 339, 343-344. It is there said, "Its manifest purpose is to require that the Circuit Court of Appeals
be composed in every hearing of judges none of whom will
be in the attitude of passing upon the propriety, scope or
effect of any ruling of. his own made in the progress of
the cause in the court of first.instance

.

.

which it is

the duty of the Circuit Court of Appeals to consider and
pass upon'." In this case-there was no question before the
Circuit Court of Appeals that had been considered by
Judge Evans in the District Court.
The charge that Judge Evans sat with the other judges
and considered with them the penalties to be imposed on
the codefendants of petitioner, we do not think has justification in the record. Besides, counsel at the oral argument'said he was not disposed to press it.
Petitioner attacks the judgment as not being supported
by the testimony, a great deal of which is detailed. The
immediate reply is that the probative sufficiency of the
testimony has tLe support of the District Court (in which
is included -the verdict of the jury) and of the Circuit

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Court of Appeals. It would take something more than
ingenious criticism to bring even into question that concurrence or to detract from its assuring strength-something more than this record presents.
It is contended that hearsay evidence was received
against petitioner, and this is erected into a charge of the
deprivation of his constitutional right to be confronted
with the witnesses against him. Hearsay evidence can
have that effect and its admission against obje6tion constitute error. Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 442, 450;
Rowland v. St. Louis & Sdn FranciscoR. R. Co., 244 U. S.
106, 108; Spiller-. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co.,
253 U. S. 117, 130. And error is asserted and in support
of the assertion there is general declamation and faultfinding with the case in its entirety. The only exception,
however, was to testimony given by one of the conspirators
of what another one of the conspirators (the latter being
dead) had told him, during the progress of the conspiracy.
We think the testimony was competent and within the
ruling of the cases. American Fur Co. v. United States,
2 Pet. 358. Nudd v. Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, 438; Wiborg
v. UnitedStates, 163 U. S. 632. And it has been said that
the extent to which evidence of that kind is admissible is
much in the discretion of the trial judge. Wiborg v.
United States, 163 U. S. 632, 658.. We do not think that
the discretion was abused in the present case.
There is nothing in the record which justifies a reversal
of the case and the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals is
Affirmed.

