QUEEN INS. CO. v. GLOBE INS. CO.
456

487

Syllabus.

must be presumed to have been reasonable. The true
value of the carrier's property would thus be shown to be
so. much higher than reported, that the actual, return
would be not higher .than six per cent. of it and there
would be no excess.
We do not think that, with the record as it is, such an
argument is open to the appellant. It did allege that the
values upon which the return was estimated were not the
true values, but it did not allege what the true values
were. This was not good pleading and did not properly
tender the issue on the question of value. Under orders
of the Commission, the carrier itself reported the values
of its properties for 1920 and 1921, upon which the excesses of income were calculated. The bill averred that a
return of these particular values was required under the
orders of the Commission. This statement is not borne
out by the orders themselves. They gave the carrier full
opportunity to report any other values and to support
them by evidence. This it did not do. We can not consider an issue of fact that was primarily'at least committed by the act to the Commission, when the carrier
has not invoked the decision of that tribunal.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed.
QUEEN INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA v.
GLOBE & RUTGERS FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 116. Argued December 6, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. Clauses in a marine insurance policy excepting, "all -consequences
of hostilities or warlike operations," and in a war risk insurance
policy insuring against acts "authorized by and in prosecution of

hostilities," should be construed narrowly as applicable only where
warlike acts or operations are the proximate cause of a loss. P. 492.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

263 U.S.

2. There are special reasons for construing such policies in harmony
with the marine insurance law of England. P. 493.
3. Where the cargo lost was all contraband, shipped in an Italian
steamship from this country to Italy during the late war, and
consisted in part of supplies and munitions for the Italian Government, and where the loss occurred while the vessel was in
a convoy sailing with screened lights, protected by British, Italian
and American war vessels and subject to the command of a naval
officer, and resulted from a collision with a British steamship in
another convoy similarly commanded which met the first one in the
dark,-held, that the loss was not attributable to warlike operations, within the meaning of the above exception. P. 491.
282 Fed. 976, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a decree of the District Court which dismissed a
libel upon an insurance policy.
'Mr. Oscar R. Houston, with whom Mr. D. Roger Englar and Mr. George S. Brengle were on the brief, for petitioner.
I. The loss was a proximate result of "acts of kings
in prosecution of hostilities."
The lower courts reached their conclusions, not on principle, but-out of deference to the decision of the House of
Lords in the cases of The Matiana(1921) 1 A. C. 99; s. c.
(1919) 1 K. B. 632; (1919) 2 K. B. 670; and The Petersham (1921) 1 A. C. 99; s. c. (1919) 1 K. B. 575. [Discussing also The St. Oswald (1918) 2 K. B. 879; The Ardgantock and The Richard de Larrinaga (1921) 2 A. G.
141; s. c. (1920) 1 K. B. 705; The Bonvilston and Gee-long (1923) A. C. 191; The Warilda (1923) A. C. 292.]
Under these decisions, if two ships (whether privately
operated or under requisitioi) traveling at night at full
speed, without lights, in accordance with Admiralty instructions, come into collision, without eifher being at
fault, then,'if both are carrying commercial cargoes, the
loss falls upon marine underwriters, The Petersham,supra;
but if either is carrying government stores to.a war base,

QUEEN INS. CO. v. GLOBE INS. CO. , 489
487

Argument for Petitioner.

the loss falls upon war risk underwriters, even though the
character of the cargo in no way affects the navigation of
the vessels. The Bonvilston, supra. If a merchant ship
carrying a commercial cargo comes into collision with a
warship, then, if both ships are at fault, or if neither is at
fault, or if the warship alone is at fault, the loss falls
upon war risk underwriters, The Ardgantock and The
Warilda, supra; even though the warship is not actually
performing any naval duty but is merely proceeding io
some port where"she intends to take up naval operations.
The Richard de Larrinaga,supra. But if the merchant
ship alone is negligent, the loss falls on marine underwriters. Charente S. S. Co. v. Director of Transports,38
T. L. R. 148.
The above distinctions disregard the real substance of
the issues. The intent of all parties is that marine underwriters during war shall continue to bear the same
risks they bore in times of peace, and that new risks
brought about by war are specially insured at a higher
premium. This intent is wholly defeated by making the
character of the cargo of either vessel determine upon
which set of underwriters the loss will fall, or by treating
a collision with escorting warships as falling upon a different set of underwriters from a collision with one of the
escorted ships. The proper test is to look at the efficient,
dominating, or proximate cause. Was the collision the result of the ordinary causes of collision, such as faulty navigation, fog, neglect of sailing rules, etc., or was it the result of the act of the naval authorities in sending two
fleets of ships, in close formation, showing no lights, on
courses which met, without warning either fleet of the
impending approach of the other? See (1921) 1 A. C. 135.
The naval authorities by their handling of the convoys
created a new risk, as part of the general plan for prosecuting hostilities, and it was this new risk that was the
proximate cause of the collision. Cf. The Canadia,246
Fed. 759; The Llama, 291 Fed. 1.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

II. Merchant ships sailing in convoy are engaged in a
warlike operation, under American law. The Atalanta, 3
Wheat. 409; The Nereide, 9 Cr. 388; The Ship Galen, 37
Ct. Clms. 89; The Schooner Nancy, 27 Ct. Clms. 99; The
Black Sea Nymph, 36 Ct. Clms. 369; Woolsey, Int. Law,
4th ed., ยง 193; 1 Kent Com., 4th 6d., ยง 155; 7 Moore, Int.
Law Dig., p. 494.
III. There is no commercial necessity requiring the
-American courts to follow the British decisions.
Mr. Van Vechten Veeder, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Burlingham was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a libel in admiralty upon a New York policy insuring cargo on the Italian steamship Napoli lost by collision in the Mediterranean, in or near the Gulf of Lyons,
on July 4, 1918. The libellant also in New York had insured the cargo concerned against marine risks and the
libellee had insured it against war risks. Each company
by agreement paid half the loss subject to adjustment and
took an assignment of the clain of the assured against the
other. The main question in the case is whether the loss
was covered by the libellee's policy. as the libellant contends. We were asked to assume that the exception of
"all consequences . . . of hostilities or warlike operations" in the marine policy and the liability for "acts
of kings, princes and people authorized by and in prosecution of hostilities between belligerent nations" assumed
by the libellee were coextensive. For. the purposes of argument we shall do so. The Courts below in deference to
the English decisions held that the loss could not be attributed to warlike operations.. There was a difference of
opinion as to whether the collision was due to faulty navigation , but all the judges agreed that it was expedient to
follow the English law.

278 Fed. 770.

282 Fed. 976.

QUEEN INS. CO. v. GLOBE INS. CO.
487

491

Opinion of the Court.

It will not be necessary to state the facts in detail.
They are fully set forth in the decisions below but those
that are material to our conclusion need but a few words.
The Napoli sailed from New York for Genoa with a cargo
of which a part was intended for the Italian Government
and a small part was munitions of war. All of it was
contraband. At Gibraltar she joined a convoy, as it was
practically necessary to do although not ordered by the
military powers.. The convoy sailed with screened lights,
protected by British, Italian and American war vessels,
and navigated by an Italian commander on the Napoli,
subject to the command of a British captain as the senior
naval officer present. The route to be followed was ordered beforehand up to a point where instructions from
Genoa were to be received but were not, as the convoy was
ahead of the scheduled time. At about midnight July 4
another convoy similarly commanded met this one head
on. It was seen only a very few minutes before the meeting, there was much confusion, and one of its vessels, the
Lamington, a British steamship, struck the Napoli and
sank her. As our judgment is based on broader grounds,
we do not describe the movements bearing upon the nice
question whether the navigation of the Napoli or the
Lamington was in fault.
To show that the loss is to be attributed to warlike operations, the petitioner points to sailing under convoy and
without lights, both made necessary by the war, as
enough. To this it adds that the cargo of the Napoli was
an aid in carrying on the struggle, a matter of special importance in the late war, where the issue depended so
largely on supplies, where, as it was put by Hough, J.,
below, "commerce existed only as an adjunct to war ";
that the routes and particulars of navigation were determined by naval command; and that the naval authorities
were responsible for the meeting of the two convoys without previous notice. - It urges with plausibility that the

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

collision would not have happened but for the proceedings thus prescribed as an essential part of the conduct of
the war. As corroborating its large interpretation of
"consequences of hostilities or warlike operations" it
states that, while the premiums upon war risk insurance
were greatly increased, those upon marine risks underwent
but little ihange.
On the other hand the common understanding is that in
construing these policies we are not to take bioad views
but generally are to stop our inquiries with the cause
nearest to the loss. This is a settled rule of construction,
and, if it is understood, does not deserve much criticism,
since theoretically at least the parties can shape their con-'
tract as they like. Morgan v. United States, 14 Wall.
531, applied this rule beyond the limits of insurance to a
charter party made during the Civil War, by which the
United States assumed the war risks and the owners were
to bear the marine risks. The boat carrying troops and
stores was compelled to put to sea by the orders of a quartermaster given to meet what he thought the exigency of
the service, although the danger was obvious and the
master and pilot advised against it. This Cofirt recognized the hardship of the owners' case, in view of the peremptory order to proceed to sea., but declined to look beyond the wind and waves that were the immediate cause
of the loss. A similar decision was reached by the House
-of Lords after the late war in a case where the chartered
vessel, the Petersham, was sailing without lights because
of Adniiralty regulations and collided with a Spanish
vessel also without lights, and- it was found that because
of the absence of lights the collision could not have been
avoided by reasonable care. Britain Steamship Co. v..
The King, [1921], 1 A. d. 99; affirming the decision of the
Court of Appeal, [1919], 2 K. B. 670. See Morgan v.
United States, 5 CtL Clms. 182, 194; Reybold v. United
States, 5 Ct. Clms, 277, 283, 284.

NEW YORK v. JERSAWIT.
487

Syllabus.

The same principle was applied to insurance,
the special
field of this narrow construction, in the case of the
Matiana heard and decided with the Petersham, where a
vessel was sailing under convoy and struck a reef without
negligence on the part of the master or the naval officer in
command of the escort. The discussion turned largely
on the question whether the remoter causes of the collision
and stranding were warlike operations, and from the tenor
of the arguments on the one side and the other it may be
doubted whether Morgan v. United States would not have
been thought to go too far. But the Matiana certainly
goes as far as the decision below in this case. There are
special reasons for keeping in harmony with the marine
insurance laws of England, the great field of this business,
and as we could not reverse the decision below without
overruling Morgan v. United States, we are of opinion
that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
affirmed. We repeat that we are dealing not with general
principles but only with the construction of an ancient
form of words which always have been taken in a narrow
sense, and in Morgan v. United States were construed to
refer only to the nearest cause of loss even when there
were strong grounds for looking beyond it to military
command.

Decree affirmed:
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEWYORK v. JERSAWIT, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF AJAX
DRESS COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 352. Submitted December 3, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. The tax laid on a domestic corporation in New York, (Tax Law,
ยง 209,) for the privilege of exercising its franchise m the State, to

