OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

50

Counsel for Parties.

263 U. S.

WOODBRIDGE ET AL., EXECUTORS OF WOOD-

BRIDGE, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 51. Argued October 5, 8, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
1. Any practice of an inventor and applicant for patent through
which he, deliberately and without excuse, postpones the beginning
of the term of his monopoly, and thus puts off the free public
enjoyment of the invention, is an evasion of the patent law and
defeats its aim. P. 55.
2. An inventor of projectiles for rifled cannon having obtained
allowance of a patent from the Patent Office, procured the papers
to be filed in the secret archives on t statement that he wished
this for one year only as an aid in obtaining patent rights abroad,
and thereafter for nearly ten years deliberately abstained from
requesting issuance of his patent in order to postpone the beginning
of the patent monopoly until the needs of the Government for
the invention should render it of pecuniary value to himselfHeld, that he forfeited his right to the patent, within the meaningof the special act of Congress authorizing this suit, and therefore
--compensation could not be recovered from the Government even
if it used the invention withir the period defined by that statute.
Act of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 1788. Pp. 56, 59.
55 Ct. Clms.234, affirmed.
APPEAL frord a judgment of the Court of Claims rejecting a claim preferred under a special act of Congress, for
compensation for use by the Government of an invention
made by the plaintiffs' decedent.

Mr. Henry P. Doolittle for appellants.
Mr. Harry E. Knight, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with Whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Lovett and Mr. Melville D.
Church, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were
on the brief, for the United States.

WOODBRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
50

Opinion of the Court.
MR. CiEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit in the Court of Claims was brought under the
authority of a special act of Congress of March 2, 1901,
31 Stat. 1788, by which the claim of William E. Woodbridge, for compensation from the United States for use
of his alleged invention relating to projectiles for rifled
cannon, for which a patent was ordered issued by the
Government, was referred to the Court of Claims to hear
and determine, first, whether Woodbridge was the first
and original inventor, and, second, to what extent the
United States had used it and the amount of compensation which was due in equity and justice therefor, and if
it found that Woodbridge was such inventor, to decide the
case as if a patent had issued for seventeen years in 1852.
the year in which it had been ordered to issue, with the
right of appeal as in other causes-"Provided, however,
That the said court shall first be satisfied that the said
Woodbridge did not forfeit, or abandon, his right to a
patent, by publication, delay, laches, or otherwise; and
that the said patent was wrongly refused to be issued by
the Patent Office." The Court of Claims heard the case,
made findings of fact and held that the petition.must be
dismissed on two grounds, first, that Woodbridge had
forfeited or abandoned his right to a patent by his delay
or laches, and, second, that the United States had not
used his invention.
From the findings of fact, it appears that Woodbridge
was a man skilled in the science of projectiles and an inventor of genius and experience. In February, 1852, he
filed an application for a patent for an invention which
he described as consisting of "applying to a projectile
to be fired from a rifled gun a rifle-ring, or sabot, in the
manner hereinafter described, for the purpose of giving
to the projectile the rifle motion." The Patent Office

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

advised him that *the use of sabots or rings of soft metal
applied to iron balls was known for either smooth bbre or
rifled guns, but -after discussion allowed him two claims,
the first for a smooth ring for a smooth bore cannon, and
the seco-d for a ring with exterior projections to fit into
the rifled cannon, for the purposed of diminishing windage,
and giving the projectile a motion in direction of the
axis of the bore.
. In a letter of March 23, 1852, Woodbridge wrote
the
Patent Commissioner, with the claims amended in the
form in which the Patent Office had agreed to allow them,
and said:
"I was informed, in answef to my inquiry, that upon
the issue, or order to issue, of a patent, it may be filed in
the secret archives of your office (at the risk of the pat,ntee) for such time as he may desire. I wish to avail
myself of this privilege when my patent may issue, in
order that my ability to take out a patent in a foreign
country may not be affected by the publication of the
invention. If it is necessary to specify a particular time
during which the patent shall remain in the secret archives, you will please consider one year as the time
designated by me."
To this, on April 15, 1852, tfie Patent Office answered
that a patent had been ordered to issue on his application
and, in accordance with his request, the papers were filed
among the secret archives of the office, subject to his
directions as to the time of issuing them. This was done
presumably under § 8 of the Act of July 4, 1836, 5 Stat.
121, which coitains the following provision:
"And whenever the applicant shall request it, the
patent shall take date from the time of the filing of the
specification and drawings, not however exceeding six
months prior to the actual issuing of the patent; and onlike request, and the payment of the duty herein required,
by any applicant, his specification and drawings shall be

WOODBRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

.filed in the secret archives of the office until he shall
furnish the model and the patent be issued, not exceeding
the term of one year, the applicant being entitled to
notice of interfering applications."
After the filing of the papers in the secret archives before April 15, 1852, nothing was done either by Woodbridge or the Patent Office for nine years and a half,
when, on December 31, 1861, Woodbridge wrote to the
Commissioner of Patents calling attention to-his invention in 1850 and his application for a patent in 1852, the
order of the office to issue the patent and the filing of the
papers in the secret archives. He said:
"I have allowed it to remain until the present time, it
being only lately that any immediate opportunity of
rendering it pecuniarily available has occurred."
The fourth finding of the ourt of Claims was as
follows:
. "The reason of said Woodbridgetor his delay in requesting issue of the patent allowed him was, as stated by him
incommunications to the Patent Office, hat-he thought
that course best fitted to enable him to avail himself of the
value of the patent, as by procuring delay in the issue of
the patent the wants of the Government migh1 demand
the invention before the patent should expire, and that as
the invention could be made available only by the necessities and action of the Government, he thought the intent
of the law that the inventor should have 14 years' exclusive use of his invention could in no other way be so well
attained in the case of this particular invention 'as by deferring the issue of the patent to a time when it could be
brought into practical use.' "
In the same letter in which Woodbridge asked the issue
of the patent he requested that he be permitted to amend
his specifications and claims and broaden them so as to
cover the use in a rifle of the sabot or ring without the projections to fit in the grooves of the bore. Within five days

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

the Patent Office replied that the patent would be ordered
to issue but that the defects in his specifications could only
be cured by a reissue. On January 29th, before a month
had elapsed, the Patent Office wrote Woodbridge another
letter in answer to his letter of December 31, 1861, in
which he was informed that the length of time he had
allowed his invention to slumber was a bar to the issue of
a patent, that for nearly ten years he had suffered his
application to remain locked up not merely beyond the
reach of the public but beyond even the cognizance of
the examiners and other officers of the department, that
meantime many patents had issued for the same invention and yet his only reason for his delay and silence was
that he supposed the invention would not prove remunerative until recently. The application was rejected on the
ground of abandonment. On April 15, 1862, Woodbridge
appealed to the Board of Examiners in Chief and on July
10, 1862, that Board affirmed the action of the examiner.
N6thing was done by Woodbridge after this until January
7, 1871, when he appealed to the Commissioner of Patents.
A day was set for the hearing. Woodbridge did not get the
notice. Another day was set. The Commissioner had to
postpone 'it, and told Woodbridge he would give him
another date. Nothing was done by anybody till January,
1879, when on Woodbridge's application the case was
heard and the Commissioner affirmed the decision by the
subordinate tribunals that the facts amounted to abandonment. Woodbridge appealed to the Supreme Court of the
District, which affirmed the Commissioner on February 28,
1880.
The Court of Claims found that Woodbridge was the
first and original inventor of the invention involved in the
two claims recit2d above. It also found that the United
States had not used the invention. The latter finding as
one of fact is attacked on the ground that the question of
infringement is a mixed question of law and fact and that

WOODBRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

with all the devices used by the United States shown in
patents subsequent to Woodbridge, which it is found the
United States did use, the question of non-user is really
a question of law which should be reviewed here.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was chiefly based
on the conclusion of law from the facts found that Woodbridge had forfeited or abandoned his right to a patent by
his delay and laches. The court also held that the claims
of Woodbridge did not cover the devices the United States
used.
The purpose of the clause of the Constitution concerning patents is in terms to promote the progress of science
and the useful arts, and the plan adopted by Congress in
exercise of the power has been to give one who makes a
useful discovery or invention a monopoly in the making,
use and vending of it for a limited number of years.
Under the Act of February 21, 1793, § 1, 1 Stat. 318, it
was for fourteen years. Under the Act of July 4, 1836, §6,
5 Stat. 117, 119, it was fourteen years, with a right of extension under certain conditions and a proper showing for'
seven years longer (idem § 18, p. 124). Under the Act of
March 2, 1861, § 16, 12 Stat. 246, 249, the term was made
seventeen years without extension and this has been the
term ever since. It was the legislative intention that the
term should run from the date of the issue of the patent,
and that, at the end of that time, the public might derive
from the full specifications required in the application accompanying the patent, knowledge sufficient to enable it
freely to make and use the invention. It is true that a
patentee is not obliged either to make, use or vend his invention during the period of his monopoly. Crown Co. v.
Nye Tool Works, 261 U. S. 24, 34; ContinentalPaperBag
Co. v. Eastern PaperBag Co., 210 U. S. 405. Congress
relies for the public benefit to be derived from the invention during the monopoly on the natural motive for gain
in the patentee to exploit his invention and to make, use

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

and vend it or its products or to permit others to do so, for
profit. The importance in working out the purpose of
Congress of keeping the inventor's monopoly within the
term for which the patent is granted is thus shown to be
capital. Any practice by the inventor and applicant for a
patent through which he deliberately and without excuse
postpones beyond the date of the actual invention, the beginning of the term of his monopoly, and thus puts off the
free public enjoyment of the useful invention, is an
evasion of the statute and defeats its benevolent aim.
In this case we have a delay of nine years and a half in
securing a patent that might have been had at any time
in that period for the asking, and this for the admitted
purpose of making the term of the monopoly square with
the period when the commercial profit from it would
be highest. Not until war or fear of war came was
there likely to be a strong demand for rifled cannon and
their improvement. Hence, the inventor, having put his
order for the issue of a patent into the secret archives of
the Patent Office in 1852,-sat down and waited until after
the Civil War came on in 1861 before seeking to avail
himself of the patent, thus postponing the time when the
public could freely enjoy it for nearly ten years. Meantime other inventors had been at work in the same field
and had obtained patents without knowledge of the situation with respect to Woodbridge's invention. This is
not a case where evidence has to be weighed as to the
purpose of the -inventor. He avows his deliberate intention. This is not a case of abandonment. It is a
case of forfeiting the right to a patent by designed delay. The special statute makes it a condition of any
jurisdiction of the Court of .Claims to render a judgment against the United States that the court shall find
that claimant had not forfeited his right to a patant by
delay or laches or for other reasons. This necessarily
implies that there may be forfeiture by delay or laches,

WOODBRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

and this Court has said that there may be such a forfeiture. In Kendall v. Winsor, 21 How. 322, 329, Mr.
Justice Daniel, speaking for the Court, delivered a very
clear and forcible opinion on what the inventors who
sought patents owed the public. One -passage in that
opinion is apposite here:
CCit is ", said the Justice, "the unquestionable right of
every inventor to confer gratuitously the benefits of his
ingenuity upon the public, and this he may do either by
express declaration or by conduct equally significant with
language-such, for instance, as an acquiescence with
full knowledge in the use of his invention by others; or
he may forfeit his rights as an inventor by a wilful or
negligent postponement of his claims, or by an attempt to
withhold the benefit of his improvement from the public
until a similar or the same improvement should have
been made and introduced by others."
In the case before us, we have the feature last alluded
to. Many inventors were at work in the same field and
had made advances in the art and the Government had
used them. When Woodbridge conceived that the time
for him had come to assert his monopoly, he became
aware of the fact that in his specifications and claims,
as allowed, he had. not covered the real advance made
by his unconscious competitors, and that was the use in
a rifled gin of a ring or sabot without projections to fit
into the rifling of the bore which, because of the softness
of the metal of the ring under the heat and pressure,
would do so without projections; and so, nine and a half
years after his patent had been allowed but not issued,
he applied for a change of specifications and claims, so
that he might cover the patents of these subsequent inventors.
Reference is made to the custom of the Patent Office
in 1852 and its permission and acquiescence in the consignment of Woodbridge's specifications and order for is-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

sue of his patent to the secret archives, as an excuse and
explanation for his course. But this is no justification.
By the terms of his letter directing it to be done, he said
he wished to apply for foreign patents and that he would
not ask delay for more than a year. Moreover, § 8 of,
the law of 1836, quoted above, wherein is found the only
authority for such a proceeding, limits the possible period
of the deposit in the secret archives to one year, for the
evident purpose of preparing a model. Here the findings show that the model had been filed before the deposit, and also show that he never applied for a foreign
patent. These circumstances only emphasize the truth
of his avowal of 1862 that he was deliberately delaying
the issue of his patent so that its term and monopoly
would reach forward to include nearly ten more years
of the future and covera much more commercially lucrative period than if he had obtained his patent when he
might and should have requested it. Thus he would
have deprived the public of a decade of free use of the
patent which the law intended. It is true that, under the
special law authorizing this action, Woodbridge's representatives could not recover compensation from the Government except for the period of seventeen years from
1852. But this feature of the special law is immaterial
in considering the jurisdictional question whether by his
conduct he forfeited his right to his patent. That must
be decided on the facts as they were between 1852 and
1862. Had he taken out his patent in 1852, he would
have been entitled to a term of fourteen years with a
contingent possibility of an extension for seven years
more. With the change of the law in 1861, had he suc:
ceeded in his effort on the last day of that year, he would
have secured a patent for seventeen years from 1862. To
state it in another way, his certain term if he had been
diligent and not sought to evade the law, would have
expired in 1866. Had he succeeded in his illegal plan

WOODBRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
50

Opinion of the'Court.

and procured a patent in 1862, his term would have
-ended in 1879. Part. of this unconscionable postponement of the end of his monopoly was due to the change
of law in 1861, but nearly ten years, as already said,
was the result of his deliberate design.
No case cited to us presents exactly these facts, but
the general principles upon which this Court has proceeded in cases of abandonment by conduct and its views of
the rights of the public and the purpose of the constitutional authority to grant patents and of Congress in
its legislative execution of that purpose, set forth in
those cases, leave no doubt of the conclusion we must
reach. Pennock v. Dialogue, 2 Pet. 1; Wyeth v. Stone, 1
Story, 273, 282; Shaw v. Cooper, 7 Pet. 292; Kendall v.
Winsor, 21 How. 322, 329; Planing-MachineCo. v. Keith,
101 U. S. 479, 485; United States Rifle & Cartridge Co.
v. Whitney Arms Co., 118 U. S.22, 25.
Of course the conclusion that patents have been abandoned by conduct in such cases is reached by inference
that the delay and other circumstances iiidicated an intention to give up effort to secure a patent. The circumstances usually relied on to show abandonment are
a rejection of an application for a patent by the Patent
Office and unexplained delay in prosecuting appeal from
one of the several executive tribunals to another provided in the procedure of obtaining a patent From these
intent to abandon is presumed. It is urged that such
authorities have no application because intent to abandon
can not be inferred from the delay in this case. That is
true; but our conclusion rests not on neglect and intention to give up the patent but on a deliberate and unlawful purpose to postpone the term of the patent the inventor always intended to secure.
The case which comes nearer in its facts to this than
any other, and is a case of forfeiture rather than abandonment, is that of Macbeth-Evans Glass Co. v. General

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Electric Co., 246 Fed. 695. There, an inventor of a process for making glass used it in secret for nearly ten
years, selling the product. At the end of that time when
the secret was betrayed by an employee, the inventor applied for a patent. It .was held by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, in a most satisfactory opinion by Judge Warrington, that the policy of the patent
law to secure to the public the full benefit of inventions
after expiration of the fixed term deemed sufficient reasonably to stimulate invention, would be defeated if an
inventor could withhold his invention from the public
for an indefinite time for his own profit, and that the
right to pteserve a monopoly in an invention by keeping
it a trade secret and the right to secure. its protection
under the patent laws were inconsistent and could not
both be exercised by an inventor. The gist of the reason for the conclusion there was the same as here, that
the purpose and result of the wonduct of the inventor
were unduly to postpone the time when the public could
enjoy the free use of the invention.
Mr. Justice Clifford, in Bates v. Coe, 98 U. S. 31, when
considering the validity of a reissued patent, used these
words (p. 46):
"Inventors may, if they can, keep their invention secret; and if they do for any length of time, they do not
forfeit their right to apply for a patent, unless another
in the meantime has made the invention, and secured by
patent the exlhisive right to make, use, and vend the
patented improvement. Within that rule and subjebt
to that condition, inventors may delay to apply for a
patent."
And in Parks v. Booth, 102 U. S. 96, 105, the same
Justice said:
" Unless invenfors keep their inventions secret they
are required to be vigilant in securing patents for their
protection."

WOODBRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

These remarks were not necessary to the conclusion in
the case he was describing, and those in Bates v. Coe have
given some concern to judges having to consider actual
cases of deliberate delay. Chief Justice Alvey of the
Court of Appeals of the District said of them (In re Appeal of Mower, 15 App. D. C. 144, 152, 153):
"This, doubtless, is a correct general proposition; -but
like all general propositions, it may have its exceptions
under special and particular circumstances, even where the
intervening rights of third parties have not been secured
by patent.
"The patent laws are founded in a large public policy to
promote the progress of science and the useful arts. The
public, therefore, is a most material party to, and should
be duly considered in, every application for a patent, securing to the individual a monopoly for a limited time, in
consideration for the exercise of his genius and skill. But
the arts and sciences will certainly not be promoted by
giving encouragement to inventors to withhold and conceal their inventions for an indefinite time, or to a- time
when they may use and apply their inventions to their own
exclusive advantage, irrespective of the public benefit, and
certainly not if the inventor is allowed to conceal his invention to be brought forward in some after time to
thwart and defeat a more diligent and active inventor,
wh& has placed the benefit of his invention within the
reach and knowledge of the public."
Judge Warrington, in the Macbeth-Evans Case, supra,
refers to the same remarks (246 Fed. 705) as follows:
"We therefore cannot think that the rule laid down in
Pennock v. Dialogie and Kendall v. Winsor was intended
to be qualified by the remarks of Mr. Justice Clifford in
Bates v. Coe .. . We are confirmed in this by the
reference made in Bates v. Coe . . . to the decision in
Pennock v. Dialbgue and to the effect of the legislation
enacted since, and particularly by the view expressed by

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

the same justice while sitting on the circuit in Jones v.
Sewall, 3 Cliff. 563, 592, 593-Fed. Cas. No. 7,495 where,
in distinguishing between the intent to be inferred from
experimental practice of an invention and practice for
gain, he said:
"' Such an. inference (of intention to surrender the invention to the public) is never favored, nor will it in
general be sufficient to prove such a defense, unless it
appears that the use, exercise, or practice of the invention
was somewhat extensive, and for the purpose of gain,
evincing an intent on the part of the inventor to secure
the exclusive benefits of his invention without applying
for tb protection of letters patent.'"
We concur in these explanations and qualifications of
Mr. Justice Clifford's general remarks in Bates v. Coe,
and for the reasons given. They certainly should not be
construed to militate against our conclusion in this case
and the reasons upon which it is founded.
Counsel for the appellants relies chiefly on the cases of
Smith v. Goodyear Dental Vulcanite Co., 93 U. S. 486';
Colgate v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 6 Fed. Cases, p.
85, and United States v. American Bell Telephone Co.,
167 U. S. 224, known as the Berliner Case. The first two
cases have no bearing on this case. In them, the Court.
found as a, fact that the delays of the inventor in prosecuting his claims in the Patent Office after rejection were
not due to an intention to abandon but to his necessitous
circumstances. In the Berliner Case there was also a
question of fact but a different one. The Government
charged in that case, as it is charged here, that the Telephone Company, the owner of the invention, deliberately
delayed proceedings in the Patent Office for thirteen years
in order that, when its main Bell patent expired, the
patent for the indispensable Berliner device might overlap
and continue the monopoly as a whole. A red ing of Mr.
Justice Brewer's opinion in that case shows that the at-

WOODBRIDGE v. UNITED STATES.
50

Opinion of the Court.

tention of the Court was chiefly directed to the issue
whether as a fact the delay was due to the design of the
owner of the invention or to circumstances over which it
had no control, including the rules of the Patent Office, the
delays of the examiners, and the peculiar situation as to
applications for patents in that active field of in- ention.
The Court found this issue against the Government and in
favor of the patentee, whose patent the Government was
attempting to cancel for this fraud and could only cancel
by clear and convincing proof. In the case at bar, the
design of the inventor is disclosed by his own avowal, and
his plan of non-action was not in accord with the rules of
procedure in the Patent Office but was in Dlain violation of
the statutory law.
The conclusion that Woodbridge forfeited his right to a
patent by his delay in taking it from 1852 to 1862 makes
it unnecessary for us to consider whether he abandoned it
by his wholly unexplained delay of nine more years in
prosecuting his appeal from the decision of the Board of
Examiners, in July, 1862, to the Commissioner of Patents,
until January, 1871. It also relieves us from going into
the question whether the Government's use of subsequent
patents for improvements in adjusting projectiles for
firing from cainon embraced the invention of Woodbridge
as contained in his specifications and claims allowed
in 1852.
The judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the
petition is
Affirmed.

