640

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

of the claims which may be asserted by means of a crosslibel. 19 The answer to the question of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is
No.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK IN ST. LOUIS v. STATE
OF MISSOURI AT THE INFORMATION OF BARRETT, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
'No. 252. Argued May 7, 1923; restored to docket for reargument
May 21, 1923; reargued November 21, 22, 1923.-Decided January
28, 1924.
1. National banks are subject to state laws that do not interfere with
the purposes of their creation, tend to destroy or impair their efficiency as federal agencies, or conflict with the laws of the United
States. P. 656.
2. National banks cain exercise only the powers expressly granted by
federal statutes and such incidental powers as are necessary to the
conduct of the business for which they are established. Id.
same subject of litigation both parties should stand upon equal terms
as regards security. It was designed, where the libelants in a suit in
rem, through the arrest of the property, exact and obtain security for
their own demand, that in a cross-suit in personam for a counterclaim in respect to the same subject of litigation, the defendants in
the former suit should likewise be entitled to security for the pay-"
ment of their demands, in case the decision of the court upon the
point in controversy should be in their favor. The rule was designed
to cofrect the inequality and injustice of the process of court in rem
being used to obtain security in favor of one party, in reference to a
single subject of dispute, while it was denied to the other."
10 Compare Bowker v. United States, 186 U. S.135, 141; Vianello v.
The Credit Lyonnais, 15 Fed. 637; The C. B. .Sanford, 22 Fed. 863;
The Zouave, 29 Fed: 296; The Electron, 48 Fed. 689; Genthner v.
Wiley, 85 Fed. 797; The Highland Light, 88 Fed. 2.06; George D.
Emery Co. v. Tweedie Trading Co., 143 Fed. 144; The Venezuela, 173
Fed. 834; United Transp. & Lighterage Co. v. New York & Baltimore
Transp. Line, 180 Fed. 90Z; 185 Fed. 386; The Alliance, 236 Fed.'361.
See also Brooklyn & N. Y. Ferry Co. v. The Morrisania,35 Fed. 558;
The Medusa, 47 Fed. 821.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

3. Under the National Bank Law, power to establish branches is
withheld. P. 657. Rev. Stats., §§ 5134, 5190, 5138.
4. The power cannot be sustained as an, incidental power, under Rev.
Stats., § 5136; for the mere multiplication of places where the
powers of a bank may be exercised is not a necessary incident of
the banking businessi hnd, moreover, a power which the statute,
by fair construction, denies, cannot exist incidentally. P. 659.
5. A state statute prohibiting branch banks is valid in application.to
a national bank; for it does not frustrate the purpose for which
the bank was created, or interfere with the discharge of its duties
to the Government, or impair its efficiency as a federal agency.
Id.
6. The prohibition may be enforcedby the State, by such form of
procedure as the State may deem appropriate,-in this case by an
information in the nature of quo warranto. P. 660.
297 Mo. 397, affirmed.

ERROR to a ,judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri,
ousting the plaintiff in error from operating a branch
bank, in a proceeding in the nature of quo warranto, in-stituted by the State at the information of her Attorney
General. For the order restoring the case to the docket
for reargument, see 262 U. S. 732.
Mr. Frank H. Sullivan and Mr. C. A. Severance, with
whom Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, Mr. James CJones,Mr. Lon
0. Hocker, Mr. Eugene H. Angeit and Mr. Win.. J. Hughes
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.1
I. The State is without power to bring proceedings to
question compliance by a national bank with its cftrter.
National banks are instrumentalities of the National
Government. 'McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316;
FirstNationalBank v. California,262 U. S. 366.
A proceeding of this kind is the prerogative of the
sovereign which created the corporation. Ames v. Kansas,
111 U. S. 460; Territory v. Lockwood, 3 Wall. 236; Mc'The case was argued, at the first hearing, on behalf of plaintiff in
error, by Mr. Sullivan. Messrs. Jones, Hocker, Angert and Hughes
were also with h4 on the brief.
74308o-2 ---

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

263 U. S.

Clung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat: 598; First National Bank v.
Union Trust Co., 244 U. S. 427; Van Reed v. People's National Bank, 198 U. S. 554; Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262
U. S. 447; Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cr. 51; California v. Pacific
R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1; Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Osborn v. Bank of
United States, 9 Wheat. 738; FarmersBank v. Minnesota,
232 U. S. 516.
The proper relations between our dual governments
make it impossible that a State should possess such power.
Authorities supra; Ableman v. Booth, 21 How. 518;
Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 405; Tennessee v. Davis, 100
U. S. 257.
The enforcement of charter limitations on national
banks is 'denied to citizens because it is the function of
the National Government. National Bank v. Matthews,
98 U. S. 621; National Bank v. Whitney, 103 U. S. 99;
Reynolds v. Crawfordsville Bank, 112 U. S. 405.
Such a power cannot exist in the States without a sacrifice of the uniformity which was one of the purposes of the
National Bank Act. Eastonv. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220.
CongresS, in conferring jurisdiction on courts of the
States over actions against national banks, has reserved
actions of this type to the general government, and jurisdiction thereof to the national courts. C. 58, § 55, 12
Stat. 680; c. 106, § 56, 13 Stat. 116; Jud. Code, § 24 (16);
c. 80, § 300b, 18 Stat. 320; c. 290, § 4, 22 Stat. 163; c. 373,
§ 4, 24 Stat. 554.
State courts have denied the power here under consideration. State v. Curtis, 35 Conn. 374; State v. Bowen,
8 S. Car. 400; Harkness v. GCuthrie, 27 Utah, 248, affd. 199
U. S. 148; State v. Cincinnati,etc., Ry. Co., 47 Oh. St. 130.
II. A state statute attempting to limit or define the
powers of a national bank is invalid.
It is only general legislation of the State which is binding on national banks. National Bank v. Commonwealth,
9 Wall. 353: Davis v. ElmiraSavings Bank, 161 U. S. 275;

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

McClellan v. Chipman, 164 U. S. 347; First National
Bank v. California,262 U. S. 366.
The Congress, having defined- the powers of the bank,
has, in so doing, by implication, excluded those not
conferred, and hence occupied the entire field of legislation on that subject. Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.
71; PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. St. Louis, etc., R. R. Co.,
118 U. S. 290;Central Transp. Co. v. Pullman's Car Co.,
139 U. S.- 24; First National Bank v. National Exchange
Bank, 92 U. S. 122.
State legislation, in definition of the powers of a national bank, necessarily conflicts with the regulations, express or implied, prescribed by Congress. Easton v. Iowa,
188 U. S. 220; Farmers'& Mechanics' Bank v. Dearing,91
U. S. 29; California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362;
First National Bank v. California,supra.
State statutes defining the manner in which national
banks shall exercise their franchises enjoyed from the general government are invalid because the sovereignty of
the State does not so far extend to them. McCulloch v.
Maryland, supra;Osborn v. Bank of United States, supra.
Such a statute is the exercise of visitatorial power which
pertains exclusively to Congress, and which Congress has,
in terms, forbidden to state legislatures. Guthrie v.
Ilarkness; 199 U. S. 148; Rev, Stats., § 5241; c. 6, §21, 38
Stat. 272.
III. The bank, in the exercise of its corporate functions,
is not limited to a single building in the city in which it
does business. Banking is a natural right, not a privilege. Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet. 517; Bank of
Californiav. San Francisco,142 Cal. 276; Curtissv. Leavitt, 15 N. Y. 9.
Except as restrained by the legislature, a corporation
may conduct its business at any point within the jurisdiction of the sovereign which gives it being.. 2 Fletcher,
Corporations, c. 21, § 806, and cases cited; Lloyd's Trustees v. Lynchburg, 113 Va. 627.

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

263 U. S.

The functioti iJre in, question is within the incidental
pbwers of a national bank unless forbidden by Congress.
First National hank v. National Exchange Bank, 92 U. S.
122; Green *BayR. R. Co. v. Union Steamboat Co., 107
U. S. 98.
Revised Statutes, § 5i34; deals only with the city, town
or village designated in the charter, and not with a place
of business within the city, town or village. McCormick
v. Market Bank, 162 Ill. 108; s. c. 165 U. S. 538.
Revised Statutes, .j 5190, does not limit a national bank
to a single office for the transaction of its business. Merchants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604; Rev. Stats.,
§ 5136; c. 290, 22 Stat. 162; Century Dictionary, article
"a)) or" an "; United States v. Oregon & CaliforniaR. R.
Co., 164 U. S. 526; United States v. Perry, 133 Fed. 841;
National Union v. Copeland,171 Mass. 257; State v. Martin, 60 Ark. 334; Commonwealth v. Watts, 84 Ky. 537.
IV. There has been no departmental construction which
can be permitted to control the construction of the statute.
Studebaker v. Perry, 184 U. S. 258; United States v. Pugh,
99 U. S. 265; Hahn v. United States, 107 U. S. 402; Swift
Co. v. United States, 105 U. S. 691; United States v.
Graham,110 U. S. 219; Merrittv. Cameron, 137 U. S. 542;
United States v. Healey, 160 U. S. 136; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677; Wisconsin CentralR. R. Co. v. United States, 164 U. S. 190.
V. There. has been no binding congre~sional interpretation. Rev. Stats., § 5155; c. 71, 27 Stat. 33; c. 864,
§ 21, 31 Stat. 1444; c. 156, 26 Stat. 62; Act of April 26,
1922, c. 147, 42 Stat. 400; Postmaster-Generalv. Early,
12 Wheat. 136; United States V. Claflin, 97 U. S. 546;
Endlich, Interpretation of Statutes, (ed. 1888), § 372.
Mr. Solicitor GeneralBeck, with whom Mr. George Ross
Hull and Mr. Charles W. Collins were on the brief, for the
United States, by special leave of Court, as amici curiae.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

645

Argument for the United States.

The National Bank Act vests in the Comptroller of the
Currency power to supervise all the operations of national banks, and specifically authorizes him to bring suit
in the United States courts for the forfeiture of the charter
of any national bank which violates any provision of the
act, and thus exceeds'its corporate powers. Rev. Stats.,
§ 5239. Revised Statutes, §5240, as amended by the Federal Reserve Act, §21,'38 Stat. 271, intends that the Comptroller shall have the "visitatorial" power.to enforce observance of the National Bank Act.
These proceedings are an obvious attempt to exercise
visitatorial powers.
The United States alone may inquire by tuo warranto
whether a national bank, in operating as such, has acted
in excess of its corporate powers.
The distinction between a pretended corporation and a
legal corporation which misuses its franchise is clear; for
the power to restrain the abuse of a corporate privilege is
essentially visitatorial, and, to subject a federal instrumentality to the visitatorial powers of a State is to subject
a federal instrumentality to the rule of two masters--and
this our system of government forbids. No other case has
come to our attention wherein one sovereign has successfully attempted by quo warranto in its own courts to define the limits of a franchis6 granted by another. Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, distinguished. This
bank is in Missouri by the paramount authority of the
United States. McCulloch v. Maryland,4 Wheat. 316.
The ancient writ of quo warranto was a high prerogative writ in the nature of a writ of right for the sovereign,
against one who usurped or claimed any office, franchise,
or liberty of the Crown, to inquire by what authority he
claimed the right. a Black. Com., 262; High, Extraordinary Legal Remedies, 3d ed., 544. The sovereign alone
might inquire who should hold a franchise, how it should
be exercised, when its limits had been exceeded, or when

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the Ufiited States.

263 U. S.

its exercise had been abandoned. The writ was a purely
civil proceeding. In course of time it was superseded by
the speedier remedy of an information in the nature of
quo warranto. Territory v. Lockwood, 3 Wall. 236. This.
proceeding was criminal in character and led to judgment,
not only of ouster, but of a fine for the usurpation.
Standard Oil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270. In either
proceeding, however, the king was the person aggrieved,
and it was upon his initiative that the actions were begun.
When our Republic was formed with a dual sovereignty,
the Nation and the constituent States, each in their respective spheres, succeeded to this prerogative of the
Crown. The question as to what authority may inquire
into the exercise of a federal office or franchise is not entirely new in this Court. Wallace v. Anderson, 5 Wheat.
291; Territory v. Lockwood, 3 Wall. 236. And see State
v. Curtis, 35 Conn. 374. The reasoning of these opinions
seems clearly applicable to the case at bar and conclusive
upon the question of the power of the State of Missouri.
Indeed, no other authority seems required than McCulloch v. Maryland.
National banks organized under the National Bank Act
are instruments designed to be used to aid the Federal
Government in the administration of its powers. Davis
v. Elmira Savings Bank, 161 U. S. 275; McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316; Osborn v. Bank of United
States, 9 Wheat. 738.
A state court cannot impede or suspend the operation of
a federal instrumentality upon the ground that the act of
Congress under which the instrumentality is operating is
unconstitutional, or does not confer the power sought to
be exercised, for it is not within the power of the State to
stay the operations of the Federal Government. Ableman
v. Booth, 21 How. 506; Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 397. The
judicial. control of the agency is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal Government. Tennessee v. Davis,
100 U. S. 257.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

647

Argument for the United States.

Many cases have arisen where persons held by the state
authorities have been discharged by the federal courts on
the ground that the act complained of was done under
authority of the United States or the process of its courts,
and that the state court was, therefore, without jurisdiction. In re Neagle, 135 U. S. 1; United States v. Fullhart,,
47 Fed. 802; Ex parte Conway, 48 Fed. 77; Kelly v.
Georgia, 68 Fed. 652; In re Waite, 81 Fed. 359; affd. 88
Fed. 102; In re Lewis, 83 Fed. 159; In re Thomas, 82 Fed.
304; affd. 87 Fed. 453; 173 U. S. 276; In re Weeks, 82
Fed. 729; In re Comingore, 96 Fed. 552; affd. 177 U. S.
459; In re Fair, 100 Fed. 149; Anderson v. Elliott, 101'
Fed 609; United States v. Fuellhart,106 Fed. 911; In re
Turner, 119 Fed. 231; In re Matthews, 122 Fed. 248; In re
Laing, 127 Fed. 213; Ex parte Gillette, 156 Fed. 65; Drury
v. Lewis, 200 U. S. 1; Hunter v. Woo.d, 209 U. S. 205;
Pundt v. Pendleton, 167 Fed. 997. The principle clearly
applies to national banks. McCulloch v. Maryland, supra.
Congress has vested no power in the state courts, by
quo warrantoor otherwise, to control the operations of national banks. On the contrary, it has expressly forbidden
it. Act of July 12, 1882, c. 290, § 4, 22 Stat. 163; Act of
August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 4, 25 Stat. 436; Rev. Stats.,
§ 5239; Leather Manufacturers' Bank v. Cooper, 120 U.
S. 778; Petriv. CommercialBank, 142 U. S. 644; Guthrie
v. Harkness, 199 U. S. 148.,
If the state law prescribes a penalty for the exercise of
any power by a national bank which is not authorized by
the laws of the United States, the national bank is not
subject to such penalty. See Farmers' & Mechanics'
Bank v. Dearing,91 U. S. 29; Haseltine v. Central Bank,
183 U. S. 132; Schuyler National Bank v. Gadsden, 191
U. S. 451.
To construe this Missouri statute asvesting in the state
courts the right to determine whether any business transacted by a national bank constitutes a violation of law,

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for th4 United States.

263 U. S.

would bring it in direct conflict With § 5239, Rev. Stats.,
which vests this power in the Comptroller of the Currency to be exercised by suit in a United States court.
There is no analogy between Davis v. Elmira.Savings
Bank, 161 U. S.275, and McClellan v. Chipman, 164 U. S.
347, and the present case. A different situation results
where an act of Congress expressly authorizes a national
bank to exercise a particular power when the exercise of
such power is "not in contravention of state or local law."
In such case the state court by quo warranto proceedings
may assume jurisdiction for the purpose of determining
whether the exercise of the power in question contravenes
any -laws of the State. First National Bank v. FelloO,
244 U. S.416.
Were this. a case of first impression, there might be fair
ground for argument whether, under §§ 5134 aid 5190,
Rev. Stats., it was intended to restrict a national bank,in
"its usual business" to "one banking house in any one
place," thereby meaning the geographical locality, wheth city, town, or village, in which the national bank has
been located. But this question does not now seem to
be open. For over fifty years the executive department
of the Government has consistently held, as a matter
of administration, that the,"' usual business" of a banking association must be transacted in a single and
-well-defined banking building; and this administrative
construction of the law has additional weight, not only
because Congress has, by supplemental legislation, acquiesced in it by passing laws which, in exceptional in-.
stances, authorized branch banks, but also because the
agitation for the right to haver branch- banks has been
carried on for many years&and CQngre~s has refused -to
authorize such branches. -See 29 Ops. Atty. Gen. 81.
A branch bank, as the term is used in the National
Bank Act,. by the Attaoney General and by the office of
tie Comptroller of the Currency, partakes of the nature

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Argument for the United States."

of a primary organization,-in practical operations, a complete substitute for a local bank in the locality which it
serves. It is ro niany intents and purposes an additional
bank under the same board of directors, closely associated
with thie parent bank, but operating in most matters independently.
Considering § 5190, Rev. Stats., in the light of this
definition, the "banking house" is the legal domicile of
the bank from which -its discretionary powers are exercised and in which its policies are formulated and approved. If a national bank should attempt to establish
and operate such a branch bank, such action could be
treated by the Comptroller as a violation of § 5190. His
remedy would be to bring suit in his own name for forfeiture of the charter. But the question remains, can a
national bank transact no business. whatever beyond the
four walls of its office building? May it not have "service stations" for minor and routine purposes? If the
answer is "No," how can it clear its checks in the clearing
house? The words "the usual business ", as used in this
section, can not be given a strictly literal interpretation.
Much of the routine business of every bank must be transacted away from- the banking house. This has always
been the case. The business of banking is continually in
process of growth and adjustment.
This portion' of §5190, must, tlaerefore, be construed
in connection with that "portion of § 5136, wlhich provides
that the board of directors may exercise all such incidental
powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of
banking..
In the light of modern banking practice a narrow and
literal construction of § 5190 is unworkable. The construction must be made with the practical situation in
mind. Merchants'Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 604.
The operations of a national banking association may
be divided into two general classes: (a) Those which must

650

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

263 U. S.

be performed by the board of directors; and (b) those
which must be delegated to and performed by the, officers,
agents, or servants of the bank.
These powers may be again divided into those which
require discretion, judgment, and banking experience, and
those which are ministerial, clerical, and of routine character.
The powers performed by the board of directors may
be described as discretionary powers, while tliose performed by officers, agents, or servants may be referred tas ministerial powers.
The responsibility for the management and control of
the affairs of the bank is definitely vested in the board
of directors, and the. services performed by officers or
agents must be performed under the direction of and by
delegation of authority from the board of directors. This
being true, the discretionary powers of the board can not
be delegated and must, therefore, be exercised only at
the banking house.
On the other hand, the actual receipts of deposits, payment or certification of checks, the actual payment of
money on loans authorized by the board, and other purely
ministerial acts, of necessity must be performed by officers
or agents. These acts, Wvhile usually performed at the
banking house, are sometimes necessarily performed by
correspondents or agents elsewhere.
It reasonably follows that, if a national bank has the
incidental power t6 perform these administrative functions through its agents or servants, acting when necessary
outside of its banking house, the bank may also, if necessary, maintain an office or offices--as distinguished fr6m a
branch-at a place other than its banking house.
To accommodate distant customers the need is strongly
felt in many localities for the banks to maintain an office
or offices at some distance from their banking houses fo.
the purpose of receiving deposits and cashing checks.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

651

Argument for the United States.

A new development iii. banking practice has thus been
instituted in a number of cities by the state banks. The
national banks must be allowed to compete or suffefr a
serious loss in business and prestige. Did Congress contemplate a policy of unreasonable restriction, which might
undermine the national banking system in the large centers of population?
[Counsel fully discussed the authority of the Comptroller, citing Studebaker.v. Perry, 184 U. S. 258; Cook
County Natl. Bank v. United States, 107 U. S. 445; Rev.
Stats. § 5239; Agricultural Credits Act, 1923, c. 252,
§ 209a, 42 Stat. 1467.]
The Comptroller of the Currency has- the right to determine, whether a national bank is maintaining a
"branch banik," as distinguished from a "branch office,""
and, if satisfied that the outside business office is essentially a "branch bank," he is authorized to proceed in the
courts of law to require such bank to abandon its branch
under the-penalty of a forfeiture of its charter.
This administrative power, however, does not necessarily imply a discretionary power to permit one bank to
have a branch office and to deny it to another, or to permit
one locality to have branch offices and to deny them to
another. If a national bank may conduct its minor and
routine operations, when necessary, beyond the walls of
its place of business, it may be a right which the bank
has as a part of its charter and not dependent upon any
discretionary permission of the Comptroller. In this connection it is significant that the question of excesses of
corporate power is to be determined in a judicial proceeding instituted by the Comptroller.
In any event the Comptroller, in his duty of compelling national banks to act within their corporate powers,
has supervisory discretion; and this important duty emphasizes again the point, upon which the Government
mainly relies, that a State may not, in a quo warrantoproceeding, interfere with the exercise of such discretion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

263 U. S.

Mr. Jesse W. Barrett,Atforney General of the State of
Missouri, Mr. Robert C. Morris and- Mr. Frederick W.
Lehmann, with whom Mr. HaroldR. Small, Mr. Merton
E. Lewis, Mr. Sam B. Jeifries, Mr. William T. Jones and
Mr. Marion C. Early were on the brief, for defendant in
1
error.
Branch banking by a national bank in the State of
Missouri is conduct which either the national or state
government has authority to stop, as such con.duct is in
excess of any authority from the Nation, is in contravention and defiance of the state law and is destructive of the
law-abiding banks of the State.
National banks exist by virtue of federal legislation and
are federal agencies subject, in the first instance, to the
authority of the United States and the laws under which
they are created. Their powers are measured by the express terms of the federal statutes relating to them and
they can rightfully exercise only such powers or those
incidental thereto which are necessary to carrying on the
business for which they are created. Logan County Bank
v. Townsend, 139 U. . 67, 73. Under the provisions of
Rev. Stats., § 5190, the usual business transactions of each
national banking association are confined to one office or
banking house. Exceptions to this general rule have been
provided by statutes to meet the requirements of specific
cases which do not include or comprehend the instant
case. Rev. Stats., § 5155; Act May 12, 1892, c. 71, 27
Stat. 33, Act Mar. 3, 1901, c. 864, § 21, 31 Stat. 1444.
National banks are also subject to the laws of a State in
respect to their affairs unless such laws conflict with federal laws or interfere'with the purposes of their creation
and tend to impair or destroy their efficiency as federal
agencies. There is no conflict between the United States
The case was argued, at the first hearing, on behalf of defendant
in. error, by Mr. Merrill E. Otis and Mr. Harold R. Small. Messrs.
Barrett, Jeffries, Jones and Early, and Mr. Edward W. Foristel were
also with them on the brief.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Argument for Defendant in Error.

statutes and the laws of Missouri, and as the law is administered in Missouri, national and state banks are on an
equal footing, neither having an advantage over the other.
The Missouri banking law provides that no bank shall
maintain within the State a branch bank or receive deposits or pay checks except in its own banking house.
R. S. Mo. 1919, § 11737. The Supreme Court of Missouri
has constrfed this statute to mean that a bank's banking
business shall be conducted in one banking house only.
29 Mo. 397.
A national bank has no authority under its charter to
establish a branch or co rdinate office for the purpose of
carrying on a general banking business in the place designated in its certificate of organization. Neither do the
federal statutes peimit expressly or by implication a
national bank tQ have domegtic branches. This construction of the federal statutes; relating to national banking
associations has been uniformly supported by the executive officers and departments charged with the administration of the law. Rev. Stats., 5155, amended, 1913, by
§.8, Federal Reserve Act; Instructions of the Comptroller
of the Treasury for 1923 under the heading of "Branch
Banks;" 29 Ops. Atty. Gen. 81, 97; Op. Atty. Gen., Oct.
3, 1923.
The State, when its action is not in conflict with national
law, can suppress unauthorized and unlawful conduct of
a national bank within the State. The present case is-not
within the provisions of the Judicial Code or the Revised
Statutes giving original or exclusive jurisdiction to the
United States courts in certain actions and proceedings
concerning national banking associations. Herrmann v.
Edwards, 38 U. S. 107.
The State of Missouri in the proper exercise of its police
powers has the right to suppress a wholly unauthorized,
and unlawful, act in the State. Guthrie v. Harkness, 199
U. S. 148.
A proceeding ir. the nature of quo warranto is the appropriate remedy and means to question and stop unau-

654

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

263 U.S.

thorized and unlawful conduct of a national bank in the
State of Missouri. Standard Oil Co. V. Missouri,224 U. S.
270; First National Bank v. Fellows, 244 U. S. 416.
It is plain from the history of the National Baik Actthat there was no lurpose at any time to confer upon national banks generally the power to establish and operate
branches in the cities in which they were respectively located. Where by 'reason of peculiar eircumstapices such
branch banks were thought proper, express provision was
made for them, as was also done in the case of foreign
branches. These exceptiofial instances, expressly provided
for, make stronger the implication against branch banks
generally. If branch banks are to become a regular feature of our banking system, it should be only as a consequence of an express grant of such power and until such
grant is made national banks should not be permitted to
put into practical effect a system of banking prohibited by
the laws of the State and the Nation.
Messrs. Herman L. Ekern, Cliford L.Hilton, Ulysses S.
Lesh, Benjamin J. Gibson, Edward J. Brundage, H. H.
Cluif, Milton J. Helmick, George F. Shafer, J. S. Utley,
0.S.Stillman, Charles B. Griffith, Frank E. Healy, David
J. Howell, E. T. England, Thomas B. McGregor,.George
T. Short, Buell F. Jones and John H. Dunbar,Attorneys
General, respectively, of the States of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Indiana, Iowa, Illinois, Utah, New Mexico, North
Dakota, Arkansas, Nebraska, Kansas, Conndcticut, Wyoming, West Virginia, Kentucky, Oklbihoma, South
Dakota and Washington, by leave of Court, filed a brief
as amici curiae.'
By leave of Court, briefs were also filed, at the first hearing, by the
Attorneys General of the States of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Indiana,
Iowa, Illinois, North Dakota, Arkansas, Kansas, Connecticut, South
Dakota and Washington, and by Mr. William Rothmann; by Mr.
John A. Garver, on behalf of the National City Bank of New York
and The Chemical National Bank of New York; and by Mr. John
Quinn, Mr. Paul Kieffer and Mr. Robert P. Stewart, on behalf of
The National Bank of Commerce in New York, as amici curiae.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The State of Missouri brought this proceeding in the nature of quo warranto in the State Supreme Court against
the plaintiff in error to determine its authority to establish'and conduct a branch bank in the City of St. Louis.
The information avers that the bank was organized under
the laws of the United States and was and is engaged in a
general banking business in that city at a banking house,
the location of which is given; that, in contravention of
its charter and of the act of Congress under which it was
incorporated, it has illegally opened and is operating a
branch bank for doing a general banking business in a separate building several blocks from its banking house, and
proposes to open additional branch banks at various other
locations, and that this is in vidlation of a statute of the
State expressly prohibiting the establishment of branch
banks. The prayer is that, upon final hearing, the bank
be ousted from the privilege of operating this branch bank
or any other. A demurrer to the information was interposed and the cause thereupon submitted. The contention of the State was upheld and judgment rendered in
accordance with the prayer. 297 Mo. 397.
The correctness of the judgment is challenged under numerous specifications of error presenting federal questions,
which, for the purposes of the case, may be considered
under two heads: '(1) Whether the state statute is valid
as applied to national banks; and (2) Whether a proceeding to call a national bank to account for acts of the kind
here alleged may be maintained by the State, and whether
the form of remedy pursued is sustainable.
First. The Missouri statute (§ 11737, R. S. Mo., 1919)
provides "that no bank shall maintain in this state a
branch bank or receive depcits or pay checks except in its
own banking house." That the facts alleged in the in-

656

OCTOBER TERM,1923.
Opinion of the Cburt.

263 IU.S.

forihation bring the case within that part of the ,statute
which prohibits the maintenance of branch banks and that
the statute applies to' national banks is conclusively established by the decision of the state court, and we confine
ourselves to the inquiry whether, as thus applied, the
statute is valid.
? National banks are brought into existence under federal
legislation, are instrumentalities of the Federal Government and are necessarily subject to the paramount autlfority of the United States. Nevertheless, national banks are
subject to the laws of a State in respect of their affairs
unless such laws interfere with the purposes of their creation,' tend to impair or destroy their efficiency as federal.
*agencies or conflict with the paramount law of the United
States. National Bank v. Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353,
362; Davis-v. Elmira Savings Bank,'161 U. S. 275, 283.
These two cases are cited and followed in the later case
•of McClellanv. Chipman, 164 U. S.347, 357, and the principle which they establish is said to contain a rule and an
exception, "the, rule being the operation of general state
laws upon the dealings, and contracts of national banks,
the exception being the cessation of the operation of such
laws whenever they expressly conflict with the laws of the
United States or frustrate the purpose for which national
banks were created, or impair their efficiency to discharge
the duties imposed upon them by the -law of the United
States." See also Waite v. Dowley, 94 U. S. 527, 533.
The question is whether the Missouri statute falls within
the rule or within the exception.
Does it conflict with the laws of the United States? In
our opinion, it does not. The extent of the powers of national banks is to be measured by the terms of the federal
statutes relating to such associations, and they can rightfully exercise only such as are expressly granted or such
incidental powers as are necessary to carry on' the business for Which they are established. Bullard v. Bank, 18

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

.657

Opinion of the Court.

Wall. 589, 593; Logan County National Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 73; CaliforniaBank v. Kennedy, 167
U. S. 362, 366. Among other things the federal law (Rev.
Stat., § 5134) provides that the organization certificate of
the association shall specifically state "the place where its
operations of discount and deposit are to be carried on, designating the State, Territory, or district, and the particular
county, city, town, or village." By another provision
(Rev. Stats. § 5190) it is required that "the usual business of each national banking association shall be transacted at an office or banking-house located in the place
spedified in its organization certificate." Strictly, the
latter provision, employing, as it does, the article "an," to
qualify words in the singular number, would confine the
association to one office or banking house. We are asked,
however, to construe it otherwise in view of the rule that
"words importing the singular number may extend and be
applied to several persons or things." Rev. Stats., § i.
But obviously this rule is not one to be applied except
where it is necessary to carry out the evident intent of
the statute. See Garrigusv. Board of Commissioners, 39
Ind. 66, 70; Moynahan v. City of New York, 205 N. Y.
181, 186. Here there is not only nothing in the context or
in the subject matter to r'quire the construction contended
for, but other provisions of the national banking laws
are persuasively to the contrary. By § 5138, Rev. Stats.,
the minimum amount of capital is fixed in proportion
to the population of the place-where the bank is located.
If it had been intended to allow the establishment by an
association of not one bank only but, in addition, as many.
branch banks as it saw fit, it is remarkable, to say the
least, that there should have been no provision for adjusting the capital to the latter contingency or for determining
how or under what circumstances such branch banks
might be established or for regulating them., Section
5155, Rev. Stats., provides that it shall be lawful for a stat
74309 -21

.42.

OCTOBER TERM. 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

bank "having branches, the capital being joint and assigned to and used by the mother-bank and branches in
definite proportions, to become a national banking association . . . and to retain and keep in operation its
branches . . . the amount of the circulation
to be regulated by the amount of capital assigned to and
used by each." This provision, confined by its terms, as
it is, to existing state institutions, may be fairly considered
as constituting an exception to the general rule, and the
presence of safeguarding limitations in the excepted case,
with their entire absence from the statute otherwise, goes
far in the directioif of confirming the conclusion that the
general rule does not contemplate, the establishment of
branch baiks. This apparently was the interpretation of
Congress itself, since in two instances at least special legislation was deemed necessary to allow the establishment of
branch banks, viz: at the Chicago Exposition, in 1892, c.
71, 27 Stat. 33, and at the St. Louis Exposition, in 1901, c.
864, 31 Stat. 1444, § 21, the existence of the branch bank
in each instance being expressly limited to the period
of two years.
The construction of the executive officers charged with
the administration of the law has been, with substantial
uniformity, to the same effect, aid in this view the Department of Justice, in a well considered opinion, rendered
May 11, 1911, concurred. Lowry National Bank-Establishment of Branches. 29 Ops. Atty. Gen. 81.1
This interpretation of the statute by the legislative department and by the executive officers of the government
would go far to reihove doubt as to its meaning if any existed.* See Tiger v. Western Investment Co., 221 U. S.
1

Our attention is directed to'a later opinion of the Attorney Gen-

eral, dated October 3, 1923, which, although in terms affiriiing the
earlier opinion, announces a limited rule which does not seem to be in

precise agreement with it. To the extent of the disagreement, however, we accept the view of the earlier opinion.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Opinion of the Court.

286, 309; United States v. Hermanos y Compaiiia, 209
U. S. 337, 339..
But is is said that the establishment of a branch bank is
the exercise of an incidental power conferred by § 5136,
Rev. Stats., by which national banking associations are
vested with "all such incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of b anking." The mere
multiplication of places where the powers of a bank may
be exercised is not, in our opinion, a necessary incident of'
a banking business, within the meaning of this provision.
Moreover, the reasons adduced against the existence of
the power substantively are conclusive against its existence incidentally; for it is wholly illogical to say that a
power.which by fair construction of the statutes is found
to be denied, nevertheless exists as an incidental power.
Certainly an incidental power can avail neither to create
powers which, expressly or by reasonable implication, are
withheld nor to enlarge powers given; but only to carry
into effect those which are granted.
Clearly, the state statute, by prohibiting branches, does
not frustrate the purpose for which the bank was created
or interfere with the discharge of its duties to the government or impair its efficiency as a federal agency. This
conclusion would seem to be self evident, but if warrant
for it be needed, it sufficiently lies in the fact that national
banking associations have gone on for more than half a
century without branches and upon the theory of an absence of authority to establish them. If the non-existence
of such branches or the absence of power to create them
has operated or is calculated to operate to the detriment of
the government, or in such manner as to interfere with the
efficiency of such associations as federal. agencies, or to
frustrate their purposes, it is inconceivable that the fact
would not long since .have been discovered and steps taken
by Congress to remedy the omission.
Second. The state statute as applied to natidnal banks.
is, therefort. valid, and the corollary tha.t it is obligatory

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

and enforceable necessarily results, unless some controlling reason forbids; and, since the sanction behind it is
thai of the State and not that of the National Government, the power of enforcement must rest with the former
and not with the latter. To demonstrate the binding quality of a statute but deny the power of -enforcement involves a fallacy made apparent by the mere statement of
the proposition, for such power is essentially inherent in
the very conception of law. It is insisted with great earnestness that the United States alone may inquire by quo
warrantowhether a national bank is acting inexcess of its
charter powers,, and that the State is wholly without authority to do so. This contention will be conceded since
it is plainly correct, but the attempt to apply it here proceeds upon a complete misconception of what the.State
is seeking to do, a misconception which arises from confounding the relief sought with the circumstances relied
upon to justify it. The State is neither seeking to enforce
a law of the United States nor endeavoring to call the
bank to account for an act in excess of its charter powers.
What the State is seeking to do is to vindicate and enforce
its own law, and the ultimate inquiry which it propounds
is whether the bank is violating that law, not whether it
is complying with the charter or law of its creation. The
latter inquiry is preliminary and collateral, made only for
the purpose of determining whether the state law is free
to act in the premises or whether its operation is precluded
in the particular case by paramount law. Having determined that the power sought to be exercised by the bank
finds no justification in any law or authority of the United
States, the way is open for the enforcement of the state
statute. In other words, the national statutes are interrogated for the sole purpose of ascertaining whether anything they contain constitutes an inpnnent to the enforcement of the state statute, and the answer being in
the negative, they may be laid aside as.of no further concern.

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Opinion of the Court.

The application of the state statute to the present case
and the power of the State to enforce it being established,
the nature of the remedy to be employed is a question for
state determination; and the judgment of the state court
that the one here employed was appropriate is conclusive.
unless it involves a denial of due process of law, which
plainly it does not. We are iot concerned with the question whether an information in the nature of quo *warranto, according to the general principles of the law,
is in fact appropriate. It is 'enough that the Supreme
Court of the State has s6held. StandardOil Co. v. Missouri, 224 U. S. 270, 287; Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S. 78, 110-111. In Iowa C6ntral Ry. Co. v. Iowa, 160 U. S.
389, 393, this Court said: ".But it is clear that the Fourteenth Amendment in no way undertakes to contr6l the
power of a State to determine by what process legal rights.
may be asserted or legal obligations be enforced, provided
the method of procedure adopted for these purposes gives
reasonable notice and affords fair opportunity to be heard
before the issues are decided. This being the case, it was
-obviously not a right, privilege, or immunity of a citizen
of the United States to have a controyersy in the state
court prosecuted or determined by one form of action instead of by another. . . . Whether the court of last resort of the State of Iowa properly, construed its own constitution and laws in determining that the suanary process under those laws was applicable to the iatter which
it adjudged, was purely the decision of a question of state
law, binding upon this court." See also Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Schmidt, 177 U. S. 230,236; Hooker
v. Los Angeles, 188 U. S. 314, 318; Rogers v. Peck, 199 U.
S. 425, 495.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
therefore
Affirmed.

662

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

Van Devanter, J., Taft, Ch. J., and Butler, J., dissenting. 263 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, dissenting.
I am constrained to dissent from the opinion and judgmenf just. announced.
National banks are corporate instrumentalities of the
United States created under its laws for public purposes
essentially national in character and scope. Their powers
are derived from the United States, are to be exercised
under its supervision and can be neither enlarged nor restricted by state laws. The decisions uniformly have been
to this effect and have proceeded on principles which were
settled a century ago in the days of the Bank of the
United States.
In McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, where the
status of that bank was drawn in question and elaborately
discussed, this Court reached the conclusion that the Constitution invests the United States with authority to provide, independently of state laws, for the creation of banking institutions, and their maintenance at suitable points
within the States, as a means of carrying into execution its
fiscal and other powers. Chief Justice Marshall there
dealt with the respective relations of the United States
and the States to such an instrumentality in a very plain
and convincing way. Among the other things, he said:
(p. 424) "After the most deliberate consideration, it is
the unanimous and decided opinion of this court, that the
act to incorporate the Bank of the United States is a law
made in pursuance of the constitution, and is a part of
the supreme law of the land."
(p. 427) "It is of the very essence of supremacy to remove all obstacles to its action within its own sphere, and
so to modify every power vested in subordinate governments, as to exempt its operations from their influence..
This effect need not be stated in terms. It is so involved
in the declaration of supremacy, so necessarily implied
in it, that the expression of it could not make it more
certain."

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Van Devanter, J., Taft, Ch. J., and Butler, J., dissenting.

(p, 429) "The sovereignty of a State extends to everything which exists by its own authority, or is introduced
by its permission; but does it extend to those means
which are employed by Congress to carry into execution
powers conferred on that body by the people of the
United States? We think it demonstrable that it does
not. Those powers are not given by the people of a single
State. They are given by the people of the United
States, to a government whos6 laws, made in pursuance of
the constitution, are declared to be supreme."
In Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 738,
there was drawn in question the validity of a state statute
which, after reciting that the bank had been pursuing its
operations contrary to a law of the State, provided that if
the operations were continued the bank should be liable to
specified exactions, called a tax. The statute was held invalid, the Court saying:
(pp. 860, 861) " The Bank is not considered as a private
corporation, whose principal object is individual trade and
individual profit; but as a public corporation, created for
public and national purposes. That the mere business of
banking is, in its own nature, a private business, and may
be carried on by individuals or companies having no political connexion with the government, is admitted; but the
Bank is not such an individual or company. It was not
created for its own sake, or for private purposes...
It is an instrument which is 'necessary and proper' for
carrying on the fiscal operations of government."
The later legislation of Congress under which national
banks are created and maintain6d stands on the same constitutional plane. When its validit, has been assailed, oits operative force in a State questioned, the cases just
mentioned have been regarded as settling the principles
to be applied.
In Farmers' and Mechanics' National Bank v. Dearing,
91 U. S. 29, 31, the Court referred to those cases, pro-

664

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

Van Devanter, J., Taft, Ch. J., and Butler, J., dissenting.

263 U. S.

nounced their reasoning applicable to the later legislation,
and said:
(pp. 33-34) ' The national banks organized under the
act are instruments designed to be used to aid the government in the administration of an important branch of the
public service. They are means appropriate to that end.
...
Being such means, brought into existence for
this purpose, and intended to be so employed, the States
can exercise no control over them, nor in any wise affect
their operation, except in so far as Congress may see
proper to permit. Any thing beyond this is 'an abuse,
because it is the usurpation of power which a single State
cannot give.'"
To the same effect are Easton v. Iowa, 188 U. S. 220,
230, 237; Van Reed v. People's NationalBank, 198 U. S.
554, 557; First National Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244
U. S. 416, 425; and FirstNationalBank v. California,262
U. S. 366, 369. Of special pertinence are the following
excerpts from Easton v. Iowa:.
(p. 229) " That legislation has in view the erection of a
system extending throughout the country, and independent, so far as powers conferred are concerned, of state
legislation which, if permitted to be applicable, might
impose limitations and restrictions as various and as
numerous as the States."
(pp. 231-232) "It thus appears that Congress has provided a symmetrical and complete scheme for the banks
to be organized under the provisions of the statute.
"It is argued by the learned Attorney General on behalf
of the State of Iowa that ' the effect of the statute of Iowa
is to require of the officers of all banks within the State a
higher degree of diligence in the discharge of their duties.
It gives to the general- public greater confidence in the
stability and- s6riency of national banks, and in the"
honesty 'and integrity of their managing officers. It enables them better to accomplish the purposes and designs,

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Van Devanter, J., Taft, Ch. J., and Butler, J., dissenting..

of the general government, and is an aid, rather than impediment, to their utility and efficiency as agents and instrumentalities of. the United States.'
"But we are unable to perceive that Congress intended
to leave the field open for the States to attempt to promote the welfare and stability of national banks by direct
legislation. If they had such power it would have to be
exercised and limited by their o-vn discretion, and confusion would necessarily result from control possessed and
exercised by two independent authorities."
It must be admitted that, in so far as the legislation of
Congress does not provide otherwise, the general laws of a
State have the same application to the ordinary transactions of a national bank,-such as incurring and discharging obligations to depositors, presenting drafts for
acceptance or payment and giving,notice of their dishonor,
taking pledges for the repayment of money loaned, and
receiving or making conveyances of real property,-that
they have to like transactions of others. But not so of
questions of corporate p6wer. As explained in Easton v.
Iowa and other cases, their solution must turn on the laws
of the United States under which the bank is created.
National banks, like other corporations, have such powers as their creator confers on them, expressly or by fair
implication, and none other. Thomas v. West Jersey R.
R. Co., 101 U. S. 71, 82; Logan County National Bank
v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 73. Powers not so conferred
are in effect denied; a prohibition is implied from the
failure to grant them. First National Bank v. National
Exchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122, 128; California Bank v.
Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362, 367. In short, all the powers of a
national bank, like its right to exist at all, have their
source in the laws of the United States. Only where .those
laws bring state laws into the problem,-as by enabling
national banks to act as executors, administrators, etc.,
where that is permitted by state laws,-can the latter have

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

Van Devanter, J., Taft, Ch. J., and Butler, J., dissenting.

263 U. S.

any bearing on the question of corporate power-the
privileges which the bank may exercise. First National
Bank v. Union Trust Co., 244 U. S.416.
The proceeding now.before us is an information in the
nature of quo warranto brought in the Supreme Court of
Missouri, whereby that State challenges the power of a
national bank in the City of St. Louis to conduct a branch
bank established by it in that city and asks that the bank
be ousted from that privilege on the grounds, first, that
establishing and conducting the branch is a violation of the
bank's charter powers, and, secondly, that it isprohibited
by a law of. the State.
If is not claimed that the laws of the United States contain any provision whereby the privilege asserted by the
bank is made to depend on the will or legislative policy
of the State; nor do they in fact contain any such provision. Whether the bank has the privilege which it asserts is therefore in no way dependent on or affected by
the state law, but turns exclusively on the laws of the
United States. If they grant the privilege, expressly or
by fair implication, no law of the State can abridge it or
take it away. And if they do not grant it, they in effect
prothibit it, and no law of the State can strengthen or
weaken the prohibition. In either event nothing can turn
on the state law. It simply has no bearing on the solution
of the question.
Ii this situation the State is not, in my opinion, entitled to maintain the proceeding. It has no distinctive
right to protect, nor any applicable law to vindicate or
enforce. The proceeding is one which may be maintained
only in the public right. Here the State is not authorized
to represent or to speak for the public. The bank is not a
creation and instrumentality of the State, but of the National Government. Its presence in the State is attributable to the national power, not to the State's permission.
Whether the bank shall be kept within its legitimate powers and made to discontinue any departure from or abuse

FIRST NATL. BANK v. MISSOURI.
640

Van Devanter, J., Taft, Ch. J., and Butler, J., dissenting.

of them is a matter in which the people of all the States
have the same interest, the bank being a national creation
and instrumentality. The people of Missouri merely
share in the common interest. "In that field it is the
United States, and not-the State, which represents them
as parens patriae, when such representation becomes appropriate; and to the former, and not to the latter, they
must look for such protective measures as flow from that
status." Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S.447, 486.. It
therefore is apparent that the State is here mistakenly
appropriating to itself a function which belongs to the
United States.
In Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 397, 407, which possessed
features making it particularly pertinent here, this Court
pointed out the distinct and independent character of the
national and state governments, within their respective
spheres, and in that connection said:
"Neither can intrude with its judicial process into the
domain of the other, except so far as such intrusion may
be necessary on the part of the National government to
preserve its rightful supremacy in cases of conflict of
authority. In their laws, and mode of enforcement,
neither is responsible to the other. How their respective
laws shall be enacted; how they shall be carried into
execution; and in what tribunals, or by what officers; and
.how much discretion, or whether any at all shall be vested
in their Officers, are matters subject to their own control, and in the regulation of which neither can interfere
with the other."
Another case apposite in principle is Territory v. Lockwood, 3 Wall. 236. It was a proceeding in the nature
of quo warrantobrought by the Territory of Nebraska to
test the defendant's right to hold a federal office in the
Territory which he was charged with unlawfully usurping.
This Court disposed of the matter by saying, p. 239:
"The right of the Territory to prosecute such an information as this would carry with it the power of amotion

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

Van Devanter, J., Taft, Ch.J., and Butler, J., dissenting. 263 U. S.

without the consent of the government from which the
appointment was derived. This the Territory can ..o
more accomplish in one way than in another. The subject
is as much beyond the sphere of its authority as it is
beyond. the authority of the States as to the Federal
officers whose duties are to be discharged within their
respective limits. The right to institute such proceedings
is inherently in the Government of the nation.'
With great deference, I think the judgment below
should be reversed on the ground that the State is without capacity to bring or maintain this proceeding, and
the court below without authority to entertain it.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER authorize
me to say that they concur in this dissent.

