OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

(C. C. A.), 265 Fed. 138; PhiladelphidRailway v. Eisenhart (C. C. A.), 280 Fed. 271, and McCalmont v. Pennsylvania Railroad (C. C. A.), 283 Fed. 736; and by the
state courts in McNaney v. Chicago Railway, 132 Minn.
391, and Ewing v. Coal Railway Co., 82 W. Va. 427.
It results that in the present case, as there was substantial evidence tending .to show that the defective condition of the grab iron required by § 4 of the Safety Appli&ice Act was a proximate cause of the accident resulting
ininjury to Wolfe while in the discharge of his duty as
a conductor, the case Was properly submitted to the jury
under the act; and the issues having been determined by
the jury in his favor the judgment of the trial court was
in that behalf properly affirmed.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
Affirmd.
accordingly

CANUTE STEAMSHIP COMPANY, LTD., ET AL. v.
PITTSBURGH & WEST VIRGINIA COAL COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 72.

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 12, 15, 1923.--Decided November 12, 1923.

Under the Bankruptcy Act §§ 3b; 59b, 59f, where a petition for
involuntary bankruptcy, filed by three petitioners, is sufficient on
its fate, alleging that 'they are creditors with provable" claims, and
containing all averments essential to its maintenance, other creditors having provable claims who intervene in the proceeding and
join in the petition at any time during its pendency before an
adjudication is made, after as well as before the expiration of
four months from the alleged act of bankruptcy, are to-be counted
at the hearing in determining whether there are three petitioning
creditors qualified to maintain the petiti6n, it being immaterial
in such case whether the three qualified creditors joined in the
petition originally or by'intervention. P. 247.
283 Fed. 108, affirmed.

CANUTE S. S. CO. v. PITTSBURGH COAL CO.
244

245

Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming an adjudication of bankruptcy made by
the District Court.
Mr. CharlesR. Hickox, with whom Mr. D. M. Tibbetts
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Thomas F. Barrett and Mr. Theodore Kiendl, with
whom Mr. John W. Davis, Mr. Nash Rockwood, Mr.
R. H. McNeill, Mr. R. R. Bennett and Mr. T. L, Jeffords
were on the briefs, for respondents.
Mr. Bernard S. Barron filed a brief for the receiver in
behalf of general creditors.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves an adjudication in bankruptcy made
under an involuntary petition which was opposed by
intervening creditors.
In February, 1921, three of the respondents, the Pittsburgh & West Virginia Coal Company and two other coal
companies, filed in a Federal District Court in New York
a petition for the involuntary bankruptcy of the Diamond
Fuel Company, alleging that it was insolvent and had
committed an act of bankruptcy within four months prior
thereto, and that they were creditors having provable
claims against it. The petition was regular and sufficient
on its face. TheFuel Company answered, denying that
it was insolvent or had committed an act of bankruptcy,
or that the Pittsburgh Company, one of the petitioners,
was its creditor and had a provable claim against it.
In September, 1921, more than nine months after the
date of the alleged act of bankruptcy, before any further
proceedings had been had other than the appointment of a
receiver, two other creditors of the Fuel Company by leave
of the court intervened in the proceeding and joined as

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

petitioning creditors in the petition for bankruptcy.
,Eleven days thereafter the present petitioners, the
Canute Steamship Co., Ltd., and Compania Naviera Sota
Y Aznar, hereinafter called the opposing creditors, being
creditors of the Fuel Company claiming to have acquired
a lien upon its funds by attachment proceedings instituted
within four months' before the filing of the original petition, by leave of the court likewise intervened in the proceeding in opposition to the petition for bankruptcy, and
filed answers denying its averments in like manner as in
the answer of the Fuel Company
On the heiring before the District Court on pleadings
and proof, the Fuel Company withdrew its answer and
consented to an adjudication. The case was then heard
on the issues raised by the answers of the opposing creditors. The District Judge, intimating, but not determining, that 'by reason of certain matters not necessary to be
recited, the opposing creditors were estopped from denying that the Pittsburgh Company was a creditor, held
that, independently of this question, any defect of parties
which might otherwise have resulted was cured by the
joinder of the two intervening creditors thaving valid
claims; and,-finding that the allegations of the petition
for bankruptcy were otherwise sustained by the proof, an
order was entered adjudging the Fuel Company a bankrupt. Upon appeal by the opposing creditors, the Circuit
Court of Appeals, assuming, but not deciding, that the
Pittsburgh Company was not a creditor, nevertheless
affirmed the order of adjudication on the ground that the
'question of its claim was immaterial in view of the joinder
of the intervening petitioners supplying the requisite
number of creditors. 283 Fed. 108.
The dpposing creditors contend that this was error upon
the ground that under the provisions of the Bankruptcy
Act (30 Stat. 544), the petition in bankruptcy could not
properly be sustained except upon a finding that the Pitts-

CANUTE S. S. CO. v. PITTSBURGH COAL CO. 247
244

Opinion of the Court.

burgh Company was a creditor of the Fuel Company having a provable claim against it, so as to make up the required number of three original petitioners entitled to
maintain the petition; and that, in the absence of such
finding, this lack could not be cured by the joinder of the
other petitioning creditors more than four months after
the commission of the act of bankruptcy.
The pertinent provisions of -the act are these: Section
3b provides that a petition may be filed against a person
who is"insolvent and has committed an act of bankruptcy
within the preceding four months; § 59b, that three or
more creditors who have provable claims against any person of a specified aggregate amount-or if all the creditors
of such person are less than twelve in number, then one
of such creditors whose claim equals the specified
amount-may file a petition to have him adjudged a bankrupt; and § 59f, that "Creditors other than original petitioners may at any time enter their appearance and join
in the petition, or file an answer and be heard in opposition to the prayer of the petition."
It was not averred in the petition for bankruptcy that
the creditors of the Fuel Company were less than twelve
in number; nor is this claimed. And no question is made
as to the aggregate amount of the claims involved.
The argument in behalf of the opposing creditors is, in
effect, that under § 3b a petition for involuntary bankruptcy must be filed within four -months after the commission of the act of bankruptcy; that under § 59b, unless
the creditors are less than twelve in number, to give the
court jurisdiction the petition must be filed by not less
than three creditors having provable claims; and that
where less than three of the original petitioners are in
fact such creditors, the joinder in the petition more than
four months after the commission Of the act of bankruptcy of intervening creditors having such claims, is in
substance an amendment of the original petition, equiva-

.248

OCTOBER TERM. 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S

lent to the filing of a new petition, which does not validate
'the original petition ab initio or authorize an adjudication
of bankruptcy to be made under it based upon an act of
bankruptcy committed more than four months before the
requisite number of creditors entitled to maintain it had
become petitioners.
However, the filing of a petition, sufficient upon its
face, by three petitioners alleging that they are creditors
holding provable claims of the requisite amount, the insolvency of the defendant and the commission of an act
of bankruptcy within the preceding four months, clearly
gives the bankruptcy court jurisdiction of the proceeding.
Re New York Tunnel Co. (C. C. A.), 166 Fed. 284, 285;.
Re Bolognesi (C. C. A.), 223 Fed. 771, 772. And while,
under §.59b, as held in Cutler v. Ring Co. (C. C. A.), 264
Fed. 836, 838, it is indispensable to the maintenance of
the petition that the existence of three petitioners holding
provable claims be established, if challenged, the argument in behalf of the opposing creditors erroiaeously assumes that these must be three original petitioners, and
fails to give due weight to the plain provisions of § 59f
supplementing and modifying the provisions of § 59b in
this respect. Section 59f provides in unambiguous language that creditors other than the original petitioners
may "at any time" enter their appearance and "join in
the petition." The right thus conferred is not limited to
the period of four months after the commission of the act
of bankruptcy alleged in the petition, either expressly or
by implication; the only limitations as to point of time
being those necessarily implied, that, on the one hand, the
petition cannot be joined in after it has been dismissed
and is no longer pending, and that, on the other hand, it
must be joined in before the adjudication is made. Such
intervention by other creditors is not "an amendment to
the original petition or equivalent to the filing of a new
iietition, but is, in the specific language of the act, a

CANUTE S. S. CO. v. PITTSBURGH COAL CO.
244

249

Opinion of the Court.

joining in" the original petition itself.

And other cred-

itors thus joining in the original petition necessarily acquire the status of petitioning creditors as of the date on
which the original petition was filed, and may thereafter
avail themselves of its allegations, including those relating
to the commission of the act of bankruptcy, as fully as
if they had been original petitioners.
We therefore conclude that where a petition for involuntary bankruptcy is sufficienit on its face, alleging that
the three petitioners are creditors holding provable claims
and containing all the averments essential to its maintenance, other creditors having provable claims who intervene in the proceeding and join in the petition at any
time during its pendency before an adjudication is made,
after as well as before the expiration of four months from
the alleged act of bankruptcy, are to be counted at the
hearing in determining whether there are three petitioning
creditors qualified to maintain the petition, it being immaterial in such case whether the three qualified creditors
joined in the petition originally or by intervention.
The decisions in the Circuit Courts of Appeals and District Courts are to this effect: Re Stein (C. C. A.), 105
Fed. 749; Re Bolognesi (C. C. A.), supra, p. 773; Re
Romanow (D. C.), 92 Fed. 510; Re Mammouth Lumber
Co. (D. C.), 109 Fed. 308; Re Mackey (D. C.), 110 Fed.
355; Re Charles Town Light Co. (D. C.), 183 Fed. 160.
And see Re Plymouth Cordage Ca. (C. C. A.), 135 Fed.
1000; Stevens v. Mercantile Co. (C. C. A.), 150 Fed. 71;
Ryan v. Hendricks (C. C. A.), 166 Fed. 94; First State
Bank v. Haswell (C. C. A.), 174 Fed. 209; Re Etheridge
Furniture Co. (D. C.), 92 Fed. 329; Re Bedingfield (D.
C.), 96 Fed. 190; Re Gillette (D. C.), 104 Fed. 769; Re
Vastbinder (D. C.), 126 Fed. 417; and Re Crenshaw
(D. C.), 156 Fed. 638. The cases of Despres v. Galbraith
(C. C. A.), 213 Fed. 190, and Trammell v. Yarbrough
(C. C. A.), 254 Fed. 685, upon which the opposing credi-

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

tors chiefly rely, are clearly distinguishable in their essential aspects. In the Despres Case the original petition
had been dismissed and the intervening creditors did not
join in it but filed a new petition; and, despite the somewhat broad language used in the opinion, it was obviously
not intended to modify or overrule the prior decision of the
same court in First State Bank v. Haswell, supra, which
was cited with approval (p. 192). And in the Trammell
Case other creditors were not permitted to reopen a proceeding in which the original petition had been dismissed,
as being not an intervention in a pending proceeding but
the "nstitution of a new one.
The question, upon which the decisions show a connlict
of opinion, as to the joinder of an intervening creditor in
an original petition insufficient upon its face, is not here
involved and is not determined.
Finding, for the foregoing reasons, no error in the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, it is
Affirmed.

BUNCH v. COLE ET AL.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME' COURT OF THE
STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 33.

Submitted March 16, 1923.-Decided November 19, 1923.

When a lease of an Indian allotment made by the allottee in excess
of the powers of alienation allowed him by acts of Congress, is
declared by those acts to be absolutely null and void, a state
statute which, as applied by the state court, gives it effect as
creating a tenancy at will and as controlling the amount of compensation which the allottee m6y recover for the use and occupation
of the land by the persons named as lessees, is to that extent inyalid
under Article VI, cl. 2, of the Constitution. P. 253.
85 Okla. 38, reversed; certiorari dismissed.

ERROR to a judgment of .he Supreme Court of Oklahoma which reversed a judgment recovered by the present

