IDE v. UNITED STATES.

497

Syllabus.

iDE ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 37. Argued April 18, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. The Act of August 30, 1890, c. 837, 26 Stat. 391, in providing that,
in all patents issued under the public land laws for lands west of
the 100th meridian, there should be expressly reserved, rights of
way "for ditches or canals constructed by the authority of the
- United States," is to be construed, in the light of the circumstances
that prompted it, as including canals and ditches constructed after
issuance of patent as well as those constructed before. P. 501.
2. Under a statute of Wyoming (Laws 1905, c. 85) granting rights of
way over all lands of the State for- ditches "constructed by or
under the authority of the United States," and providing that reservations thereof shall be inserted in all state conveyances, patents
of school land issued by the State to private parties expressly subject to rights of way "reserved to the United States," are subject
to the right of the United States thereafter to construct and operate irrigation ditches for a reclamation project over the lands conveyed by the patents. P. 502.
3. This right may be exercised by straightening, and using, as a ditch,
a natural ravine, to collect waters appertaining to the federal project which have been used in irrigating its lands and are found percolating where they are not needed, and to conduct them elsewhere for further use upon the project. P. 503.
4. The evidence here shows that the ravine in question carried no
natural flow of water susceptible of storage, or use in the irrigation season, and therefore none susceptible of private appropria-"
tion under the law of Wyoming, and that the water in controversy
resulted from seepage from lands irrigated under the federal irrigation project. P. 503.
5. The right of the United States in water ajipropriated generally
for the lands of a reclamation project is not exhausted by conveyance of the right of user to grantees under the project and
use of the water by them in irrigating their parcels, but attaches
to the seepage from such irrigation, affording the Government priority in the enjoyment thereof for further irrigation on the project over strangers who seek to 'appropriate it for- their lands.
P. 505.
74308*-24-----32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

6. Evidence held to refute the contention that the Government had
abandoned its right to the seepage waters in controversy. P. 506.
7. A water permit issued ex parte by the State Engineer of Wyoming is a mere license to appropriate water if available, and in accord-

ance with the law of the State. P. 507.
277 Fed. 373, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which reversed a decree of the District Court for the defendants (appellants here) in a suit by the United States
to enjoin interference with work in connection with an
irrigation project.

Mr. D. A. Haggard and Mr. Ray E. Lee, with whom
Mr. David J. Howell, Attorney General of the State of
Wyoming,,and Mr. M. A. Rattigan were on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck and Mr. W. W. Dyar, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE, VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a suit by thhe- United States to enjoin threatened- interference with changes which it is making in a
natural ravine, called Bitter Creek, in the course of
completing and perfecting an irrigation system known
.as the Shoshone Project. The changes consist in sQ
straightening, widening .and deepening the ravine that
it may be utilized as a ditch to collect seepage from
project irrigation and to carry the water so collectod
to other lands for further use in their irrigation. The
defendants severally own small tracts of land within the
project which are either crossed by or adjacent to- the
ravine, and some claim to have appropriated water in
the ravine for the irrigation of their tracts. All, in their

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
.497

Opinion of the Court.

answers, challenge the plaintiff's right to make the
changes,-some on the ground that the work involves
a trespass on their tracts, and others on the ground
that it involves a destruction of their asserted appropriations. And on these grounds they ask affirmative
relief.
After a hearing the District Court entered a decree
for the defendants. In the Circuit Court of Appeals that
decree was reversed with a direction to enter one for the
plaintiff. 277 Fed. 373. The defendants then appealed
to this court.
The project is a very large one, and was undertaken
in accordance with the National Reclamation Act of
June 17, 1902, c. 1093, 32 Stat. 388. It was formally
approved in 1904; work on. it was begun promptly, and
parts of it are now nearing completion. It comprehends
the impounding of the waters of the Shoshone River and
the use of many tunnels, canals and laterals in carrying
and applying them to large bodies of public land, all
naturally arid and susceptible of cultivation only when
irrigated. The lands are disposed of in small tracts as
the work progresses, each disposal carrying with it a
perpetual right to water from the project canals. The
terms of disposal are such that the cost of coinstruction
and maintenance ultimately will be borne by the purchasers. There are also provisions under which other
owners of small tracts may acquire rights to be supplied
with project water by assuming the payment of a just
charge.
The entire project is within the State of Wyoming,
where irrigation is practiced and the doctrine of appropriation prevails. Pursuant to a direction in ยง 8 of
the act and in conformity with the laws of the State,
permits were sought and obtained from the state officers
enabling the plaintiff to proceed with the impounding of
the waters of the river,-which concededly were open

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

to appropriation,-and with their distribution, delivery
and use in consummating the purposes of the project.
One branch of the project, known as the Garland Division, was designed to accomplish the reclamation and
cultivation of a large body of lands. in the center of
which was a school section of 640 acres owned by the
State. The present controversy arose in that division.
The ravine, called Bitter Creek, and the lands of the
defendants are all there. In 1908 the work had progressed to a point where the plaintiff began delivering
project water to lands in that division. In 1910 the
plaintiff sold a small tract adjoining the school section
to one of the defendants, and in 1913 sold a like tract
similarly situated to another of the defendants. Both
tracts are crossed by the ravine. These sales were made
under the act, and each carried a project water right.
-In 1910 and 1911 the State sold most of the school
section in small tracts to some of the defendants. Three
or four of these tracts are crossed by the ravine. No
water right passed with the sales; nor was any project
water right sought or obtained by the purchasers.- But
tifey attempted to appropriate, and claim they did appropriate, water found in the ravine for the irrigation of
their tracts.
It is made very plain on the record that when the
defendants acquired the small tracts-two from the plaintiff' and the others from the State--the work in that
division was well advanced and still in progress, that
water was then being delivered through project canals
*and laterals, that irrigation under them had begun and
was being extended, and that the general situation was
such as to put the defendants on inquiry respecting
the rights which the plaintiff possessed and might exercise in completing and perfecting the work.
With this understanding of matters about which there
can be no controversy, we come to the questions brought

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

to the attention of the courts below and pressed for de-cision here. Shortly stated they are, (1) whether the
plaintiff has a reserved right of way over the small tracts,
under which it may convert the ravine into a ditch to be
used for the purposes already indicated; (2) whether,
apart from seepage from project irrigation, the ravine
carries a natural -stream or flow of water susceptible of
effective appropriation; (3) whether the plaintiff had a
right to recapture and utilize seepage from project irrigation finding its way into the ravine, and (4), if it had;
whether that right has been abandoned.
1. The patents for the tracts acquired from the plaintiff expressly reserve to it rights of way "for canals and
ditches constructed or to be constructed by its authority,"
and that reservation is based on a direction in the'Act of
August 30, 1890, c. 837, 26 Stat. 391, that there be expressed in all patents issued under the public land laws for
lands west ofthe one hundredth meridian a reservation of
rights of way "for ditches or canals constructed by the
authority of the United States." Because the patents say
"constructed or to be constructed" when the statute only
says "constructed," it is contended that the reservation
is broader than the direction, and is to that extent void.
But we think the contention ascribes to the direction a
narrower scope than Congress intended it should have.
The officers of the land department, as the patents show,
regard it as comprehending all canals and ditches constructed under the direct authority of the United States,
whether the construction precedes or follows the issue of
the patent. That the words of the direction admit of this
interpretation is plain, and that it accords with the legislative purpose is demonstrable. When the direction was
given the United States had no canals or ditches on tlhe
public lands west of the one hundredth meridian, either
constructed or in process of construction. As yet it had not
become engaged in the reclamation of its arid public lands

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

in that region. But it was actively conducting investigations and collecting data with a view to developing and
formulating a feasible plan for taking up and prosecuting
that work. At an early stage of the investigations Congress became solicitous lest continued disposal of lands in
that region under the land laws might render it difficult
and costly to obtain necessary rights of way for canals and
ditches when the work was undertaken. To avoid such
embarrassment Congress at first withdrew great bodies of
the lands from disposal under the land laws. Act of
October 2, 1888, c. 1069, 25 Stat. 526; 19 Ops. Atty. Gen.
564; 9 L. D. 282; 11 L. D. 296. That action proved unsatisfactory, and, by the Act of A, gust 30, 1890, Congress
repealed the withdrawal, restored the lands to disposal
under the land laws, and gave the direction that in all
patents there should be a reservation of rights of way, etc.
Of course the direction must be interpreted in the light of
the circumstances which prompted it, and when this is
done the conclusion is unavoidable that the direction is intended to include canals and ditches construcfed after
patent issues quite as much as those constructed before.
All courts in which the question has arisen have taken this
view. Green v. Willhite, 160 Fed. 755; United States v.
Van Horn, 197 Fed. 611 : Green v. Wilhite, 14 Idaho, 238.
Wyominghas a statute granting rights of way over all
lands of the State for ditches "constructed by and under
the authority of the United Stites" and providing that all
conveyances by the State shall contain "a reservation for
rights of way" of that class. Laws 1905, c. 85. The
patents issued by the State for the tracts in the school
section all contain a clause showing that the title was
transferred subject to all rights of way granted under the
laws of the State "or reserved to the United States." A
contention is made that the statute and the reservation in
the patents are confined to ditches constructed while the
.atate owned the land. But it is not claimed that the

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the State has so decided, and as we read
the statute and reservation they refute the contention.
We conclude that the plaintiff has a. lawfully reserved
right of way over the tracts of the defendants for such
ditches as may be needed to effect the irrigation of the.
lands which the project is intended to reclaim, and that
the defendants were apprised of this right by the patents
which passed the tracts to them. In short, they received
and hold the title subject to the exercise of that right.
Assuming that there is in the ravine crossing these
tracts no natural stream or flow of water susceptible of
effective appropriation, the plaintiff undoubtedly has the
right to make any needed changes in the ravine and to use
it as a ditch in irrigating project lands. ..The defendants
do not question this, but they say that the ditch is to be
used for drainage purposes, and that this is not within the
reserved right. We need not consider the second branch
of the objection, for the first is faulty. The evidence
shows that the ditch is intended to collect project waters
once used in irrigation, and found seeping or percolating
where they are not needed, and to conduct them where
they can be used in further irrigation. This plainly is an
admissible purpose. The defendants also say that there
is no need for making any change in the ravine, because its
fall, depth, and other features render it adequate for the
purpose. There is some testimony'to this effect, but the
weight of the evidence is quite the other way.
2. On the question whether there is in the ravine a
natural stream or flow of water which could be the subject -of an effective appropriation, the courts below
differed, the District Court resolving it in the affirmative
and the Circuit Court of Appeals in the negative. The
evidence bearing on the question is conflicting, but the
conflict is not difficult of solution, if regard be had for
the varying opportunities of the several witnesses for
observirg and describing the natural conditions.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

There was no irrigation in the vicinity of the ravine
prior to 1908. Project irrigation there began that year
and was gradually extended. Seepage from it promptly
found its way into the ravine and kept pace with the
irrigation. In 1910 there had come to be enough seepage
to produce a small but appreciable flow during the irrigation season. That was an artificial flow, coming from
a source created and controlled by the plaintiff. The
defendants came on the scene after that flow began.
One of them was the chief witness on their side, and the
District Court, as shown by its opinion found in the
record, attached much weight to his testimony. The
witness never saw the ravine or the adjacent country
until 1910, apid his testimony reflected the changed
rather than the natural conditions. The Circuit Court
'of Appeals rightly pointed this out, and gave greater
weight to the testimony of witnesses whose observation
and knowledge went back to a time when the natural
conditions had not been disturbed.
We have examined the evidence and shall summarize
what we regard it as proving.
The ravine is a wash or gully made by surface drainage through a long course of years. It has a length of
several miles and receives the drainage from a large
area devoid of trees and brush and without lakes or
springs. The annual precipitation, including snow, is,
less than six inches, and the evaporation is pronounced.
The water naturally draining into the ravine comes from
melting snow and exceptional rains. That from melting
snow causes an intermittent flow for about sixty flays
beginning late iii February, and that from exceptional
rains sometimes causes a flow for half a (lay or a day.
At all other times the ravine is naturally dry. The flow
from melting-snow ceases before the irrigation season
begins, and topographical conditions are such that it is
not practicable to collect and store the water. The de-

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
497

505

Opinion of the Court.

fendahts have not attempted to do so. The flow from
rain is of such short duration and so uncertain that
no practical use can be made of it.
As before stated, soon after the project irrigation
began, seepage therefrom caused an artificial flow. At
first this flow was slight and confined to the irrigation
season, but it gradually increased in volume and duration as the irrigated area was extended.
From this summary it is apparent that for short and
irregular periods, mostly outside the irrigation season,
the ravine has a natural flow, but that this water is not
susceptible of useful appropriation. In Wyoming an
appropriation which is not useful is of no effect, for under the law of that State beneficial use is ihe basis, measure and limit of all appropriation.' Comp. Stat. 1910,
ยง 724. It follows that the asserted appropriations from
the ravine are of no effect, unless they confer or carry
some right in the artificial flow. Evidently this is what
they really were intended to do.
"3. The seepage producing the artificial flow is part
of the water which the plaintiff, in virtue of its appropriation, takes from the Shoshone River and conducts
to the project lands in the vicinity of the ravine for
use in their irrigation. The defendants insist that when
water is once used under the appropriation it cannot be
used again,-that the right to use it is exhausted. But
we perceive no ground for thinking the appropriation
is thus restricted. According to the record it is intended
to cover, and does cover, the reclamation and cultivation
of all the lands within the project. A second use in
accomplishing that object is as much within the scope
of the appropriation as a first use is. The state law and
the National Reclamation Act both contempilate that
the water shall be so conserved that it may be subjected
to the largest. practicable use. A further contention is
that the plaintiff sells the water before it is used, and

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

therefore has no right in the seepage. But the water
is not sold. In disposing of the lands in small parcels,
the plaintiff invests each purchaser with a right to have
enough water supplied from the project canals to irrigate his land, but it does not give up all control over
the water or to do more than pass to the purchaser a right
to use the water so far as may be necessary in properly
cultivating -his land. Beyond this all rights incident to
the appropriation are retained by the plaintiff. Its right
in the seepage is well illustrated by the following excerpt
from the opinion of District Judge Dietrich in United
States v. Haga, 276 Fed. 41, 43:
"One who by the expenditure of money and labor diverts appropriable water from a stream, and thus makes
it available for fruitful purposes, is entitled to its exclusive
control so long as he. is able and willing to apply it to
beneficial uses, and such right extends to what is commonly known as wastage from surface run-off and deep
percolation, necessarily incident to practical irrigation.
Considerations of both public policy and natural justice
strongly support such a rule. Nor is it essential to his control that the appropriator maintain continuous actual possession of such water. So long as he does not abandon it
or forfeit it by failure to use, he may assert his rights. It
is not necessary that he confine it upon his own land or
convey it in an artificial conduit. It is requisite, of course,
that he be able to identify it; but, subject to that limitation, he may conduct it through natural channels and may
even commingle it or suffer it to commingle with other
waters. In short, the rights of an appropriator in these
respects are not affected by the fact that the water has
once been used."
An instructive application of this rule is found in McKelvey v. North Sterling IrrigationDistrict, 66 Colo. 11.
4. Measures for collecting and using the seepage could
not well be taken in advance of its appearance. When

IDE v. UNITED STATES.
497

Opinion of the Court.

it began to appear in appreciable quantity the plaintiff's
officers took up the formulation of plans for utilizing it.
The matter was much considered, for like problems were
arising in connection with other projects. The advice of
army engineers was sought; plans were recommended and
adopted; necessary expenditures were authorized, and the
work was then undertaken. That on the ravine was begun
in 1914. At no time was there any purpose to abandon
the seepage. On the contrary, the plaintiff needed and
intended to use all of it for project purposes. This was
-stated and restated in various official reports, including
some by the Director of the Reclamation Service and the
Secretary of the Interior, and was well understood by the
project officers. In these circumstances it is very plain
that the plaintiff's right in the seepage was not abandoned.
As making against this conclusion, the defendants say
that the plaintiff in 1910 applied to the State Engineer for
a permit authorizing it to divert water from the ravine for
the irrigation of particular lands and that the application
was returned without approval. But we find no evidence
of abandonment in this. If the application shows anything material in this connection, it is that the plaintiff
was then intending to divert and use the seepage. The
reason giveii by'the State Engineer for returning the application without approval was that the irrigation of the
particular lands was "already covered" by the plaintiff's
existing permit. Certainly nothing was lost by the application or by the engineer's action thereon.
5. The appropriations from the ravine which are asserted
by some of the defendants were made under permits
issued by the State Engineer in 1910 and 1915, and this
is advanced as a reason for sustaining them. The permits
were based on ex parte applications and were mere licenses
to appropriate in accordance with the law of the State,
if the water was available. Wyoming v. Colorado, 259
U. S. 419, 488. We have seen that under the law of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Counsel for Parties.

263 U. S.

State the natural flow could not be appropriated, because
the conditions did not admit of its beneficial use, and that
the artificial flow was not available, because the plaintiff
was entitled and intending to use it. The asserted appropriations therefore derive no support from the permits.
Decree affirmed.
SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY v. NORTH CAROLINA "PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 110. Argued November 28, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
A writ of certiorari, granted under the impression, induced by the
petition, that a question of public importance is involved, will be
dismissed when the argument reveals that the impression was erroneous.

Writ of certiorari to review 282 Fed. 837, dismissed.
CERTIORARI to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which re-versed in part a decree of the District Court, in a
case iemoved from a court of North Carolina. The proceeding was-brought by the Public SeriVice Company and
two cities, under North Carolina statutes, to compel the
present petitioner to continue furnishing electric power.
to the Public Service Company for use in operating street
cars in the cities, and for the use of the cities and their
citizens for light and power. The decree of the District
Court, 'as modified by the court bel6w, granted this relief.

Mr. R. V. Lindabury and Mr. William P. Bynum, with
whom Mr. W. S. O'B. Robinson, Jr., Mr. E. T. Causlerand
Mr. R. C. Strudwick were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John W. Davis and Mr. Aubrey, L. Brooks, with
whom Mr. C. A. Hines and Mr. Dred Peacock were on the
brief, fdr respondents.

