CORONA CO. v. UNITED STATES.

537

Argument for Appellant.

CORONA COAL COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 42.

Argued November 23, 26, 1923.--Decided January 7, 1924.

Where coal, requisitioned by the Fuel Administration for the Railroad Administration, was paid for by the latter at prices fixed in
contracts between certain carriers, which it took over, and the coal
owner, held:
(a) That the owner's claims against the Railroad Administration, reserved in the requisition, for the difference between the price
paid and the greater price then fixed generally by the Fuel Administration, were causes of action arising out of the possession,
use and operation of the carriers by the President, within Transportation Act, § 206a, authorizing suit against the agent appointed by him. P. 539.
(b) Under Jud. Code, § 154, the institution and pendency of such
actions in the District Court prevents prosecution of an appeal
pending here from an earlier judgment of the Court of Claims
rejecting a claim against the United States on the same cause. Id.
(c) This prohibition of § 154 cannot be avoided upon the ground
that the later actions were brought to avoid the time limitation of
the Transportation Act. Id.
Appeal to review 57 Ct. Clms. 607, dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition.

Mr. Forney Johnston for appellant.
The actions instituted in the District Court against
James C. Davis, as agent of the President (as nominal defendant), under § 206a, Transportation Act, 1920, are not
such suits or process as are contemplated by § 154,_Jud.
Code.
They are not pending against any person who, when the
cause of action arose, was, in respect thereto, acting or
professing to act, mediately or immediately, under the
authority of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

The causes of action arose during federal control of
railroads. Davis was appointed Director General and
Agent of the President, under § 206a, by Executive
Order of March 26, 1921.
The action in the Court of Claims is based upon a contract, express or implied, under averments which, appellant conceives, confer jurisdiction upon the Court of
Claims. By demurrer and argument in that action,
counsel for the United States tobk the position that the
cause should properly be brought in the District Court,
against Davis, as agent of the President, under § 206a.
The Court of Claims held that the cause of action before
it was proper to be brought only in the District Court
against the United States, under § 10 of the Lever Act.
The statute of limitations fixed by § 206a is two years
from the date of approval of the Transportation Act,February 28, 1920. In view of this diversity of opinion as
to the proper forum, and in order to avoid the bar of the
statute should the position of the United States be sustained, it was necessary that appellant should file the
actions in the District Court.
Section 154, Jud. Code, is intended to prevent contemporaneous actions against the United States and against
a person (other than the United States), for the same
cause of action, under such circumstances that a judgment against the person might be made the basis of a
claim by him for reimbursement, against the United
States. The statute does not contemplate cases where
both suits are in substance and effect against the United
States, as here.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the briefs, for the United States.

Mr. Justice
Court.

SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

CORONA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
537

Opinion of the Court.

Appellant sued in the Court of Claims for a balance
alleged to be due for coal delivered to the United States.
Some time prior to the delivery appellant had entered
into contracts with certain railroad companies to supply
them with coal for specified periods of time and at stated
prices. Upon the passing of the railroads into the control
of the Government, by virtue of the President's proclamation of December 26, 1917, 40 Stat. 1733, the Railroad Administration claimed the right to enforce these
contracts. The right was denied; whereupon the Fuel
Administration requisitioned the coal "without prejudice
to your [appellant's] right to assert a claim against the
Railroad Administration or these various railroad companies," for any amount claimed to be legally payable.
The Railroad Administration paid the prices fixed by the
contracts, asserting that these were the measure of its
liability. The general price for coal theretofore fixed by
the Fucl Administration was more than the contract
price, and this action was for the difference. The court
below sustained a demurrer to the petition and dismissed
it. After the rendition of judgment and before the appeal to this Court, appellant brought actions in the
Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana against James C. Davis, as Agent for the President
under the Transportation Act of 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat.
456, the causes of action therein set forth being the same
as that set forth in the present case. These alleged
causes of action arose out of the possession, use and operation by the President of the railroads in question and
come within the provisions of § 206 (a) of the act, c. 91,
41 Stat. 461.
The Government has submitted a motion to dismiss
the appeal, relying upon the provisions of § 154 of the
Judicial Code, which reads:
"No person shall file or prosecute in the Court of
Claims, or in the Supreme Court on appeal therefrom,

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U.S.

any claim for or in respect to which he or any assignee
of his has pending in any other court any suit or process
against any person who, at the time when the cause of
action alleged in such suit or process arose, was, in respect thereto, acting or professing to act, mediately or
immediately, under the authority of the United States."
At the time the alleged causes of action arose the
President was acting under the authority of the United
States, and the actions being against an agent appointed
by and acting for him, fall within the terms of the statute
just quoted. It is urged, however, that the actions were
brought, ex necessitate rei, because they were about to
become barred by expiration of the statutory period of
limitation and. that, for this and other reasons, the case
is not within the spirit of § 154 properly construed. But
the words of the statute are plain, with nothing in the
context to make their meaning doubtful; no room is left
for construction, and we are not at liberty to add an exception in order to remove apparent hardship in particular cases. See Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 320;
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor,
210 U. S.281, 295; United States v. First National Bank,
234 U. S. 245, 259-260.
Appeal dismissed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. BURTCH, ADMINISTRATRIX OF BURTCH.
CERTIORARI

No. 115.

TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF THfE STATE
INDIANA.

OF

Argued December 3, 4, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.

1. In determining whether a case appealed from a state court should
have been governed by the Federal Employers' Liability Act, uncontradicted evidence establishing the interstate character of a
shipment must prevail here over the special findings and general
verdict of the jury. P. 543.

