-LACOSTE v. DEPT. OF CONSERVATION.

545

Syllabus.

540

cal facts and conditions wholly apart therefrom. If, there-'
fore, a violation of the rule be aSsumed it would not avail
to relieve the company from a liability which would otherwise exist. See Moran v. Dickinson, 204 Mass. 559, 562;
Newcomb v. Boston Protective Department, 146 Mass.
596; Currelliv. Jackson, 77 Conn. 115, 122.
Upon the facts now disclosed by the record the case is
one arising under and governed by the Federal Employ-.
ers' Liability Act and in that view it should have been
submitted to the jury. The judgment of the State
Supreme Court is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed:
LACOSTE ET AL. v. DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 65. Argued October 11, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. By right of ownership, and in the exercise of police power, a State
may regulate the taking of wild animals within its borders, their
subsequent use, and the property rights that may be acquired in
them. P. 549.
2. The question whether a state law interferes with or burdens interstate commerce, is determined here with regard to the substance of
the law; its form, or its characterization by the state legislature or
courts, ,do not necessarily control. P. 550.
3. In the exertion of its police power to protect wild animals for the
common benefit, a State may require payment of a tax upon their
skins or hides as a condition precedent to transfer of its title to
the dealer paying the tax. Id.
4. The fact that such skins or hides are intended to be shipped out
of the State without preliminary manufacture does not prevent
their taxation by the State while in the hands of dealers and before
they move in interstate commerce. P. 551. Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 517.
5. Nor does the fact that the law, for certainty of execution, taxes
the hides or skins in the hands of the dealer who ships them out
74308--24--, 35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

of the State, or buys them for that purpose or to sell them for
manufacture within the State, rather than taxing them in the
hands of the trapper or buyer from whom the dealer procures
them, constitute it an interference with interstate commerce.
P. 551.
6. A law imposing such a tax does not violate due process of law
by delegating to an administrative body the authority to ascertain the prices of skins and hides paid by the dealer, determine the
time and manner in which the tax shall be paid, and adopt and
enforce reasonable rules and regulations not contrary to the act, in
relation to the collection of the tax. Id.
7. Wild animals taken and possessed with the permission of a State,
upon prescribed conditions, may reasonably be distinguished from
other classes of property, so that their skins and bodies may be
taxed to dealers therein, consistently with equal protection of the
laws, without imposing similar taxes on other kinds of property
belonging to merchants. P. 552.
8. A State has great latitude in choosing the means for protecting
wild life within its borders. Id.
151 La. 909, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
which affirmed a judgment dismissing a suit brought by
Lacoste et al., to enjoin the State Department of Conservation from enforcing payment of a severance tax.
Mr. Morris B. Redmann and Mr.-Edwin T. Merrick,
with whom Mr. Rplph J. Schwarz was on the brief, for
plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Paul A. Sompayrac, Assistant Attorney General of
the State of Louisiana, with whom Mr. A. V. Coco, Attorney General, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
Mr. Justice BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Plaintiffs in error are severally engaged in Louisiana
in the business of buying, selling, importing, exporting
and dealing in hides, skins and furs, some of which come
from wild furbearing animals and alligators in that

LACOSTE v. DEPT. OF CONSERVATION.
545

547

Opinion of the Court.

State. They brought this suit in the Civil District Court
of the Parish of Orleans to enjoin the defendant in error
from enforcing the payment of a severance tax levied by
Act 135 of the General Assembly of Louisiana, 1920.1 By
that act, all wild furbearing animals and alligators in
the State, and their skins, are declared to be the property
of the State until the severance tax thereon shall have
been paid. A dealer is defined to be one who buys such
1 The scope and substance of the act are indicated by its title, which
is as follows:
AN ACT
Declaring the wild furbdaring animals and alligators of this State
to be the property ef the State, and the skins taken from such
animals to be the property of the State until there shall have been
paid to the State of Louisiana, through the Department of Conservation, the severance tax levied thereon by the provision of this
Act; levying an annual license tax on persons, firms, corporations
or associations of persons engaged in the buying of hides and skins
taken from wild furbearing animals and alligators, and prohibiting
the conduct of such business without such license; levying a severance tax of two (2c) cents on the dollar of and on the value of the
hides and skins taken from the wild furbearing animals and alligators
of this State; fixing the time when, by whom, and under what
conditions such severance tax shall be paid; defining the time and
making an open season for the trapping of all furbearing animals
and the taking and killing of alligators.in this State; to allow licensed
trappers to hunt wild game without additional license; to prohibit
persons, firms, corporations, or associations from shipping or selling
hides or skins taken from wild furbearing animals or alligators of
this State uiless said severance tax is paid thereon; requiring all
persons dealing in hides and skins taken from wild furbearing animals
and alligators of this State to keep record of all receipts and sales
of said hides and skins and to make reports of same to the Department of Conservation; to define trappers, fur dealers, fur buyers,
resident and non-resident; to authorize the Department of Conservation to adopt rules and regulations providing for the collecting of
the severance tax and licenses herein imposed and regulating the
handling and disposition of all hides and skins of furbearing animals
and alligators; to provide penalties for the violation of this Act and
to repeal all conflicting laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

skins and hides from either a trapper or a buyer and ships
them from the State, or sells them for manufacture into
a finished product in the State, or one ,who ships or
carries them out of the State. Section 3 levies a severance
tax of two per cent. on the valu of all skins and hides
taken from wild furbearing animals or alligators" within
the State, to be paid by the"dealer, to the State through
the Department of 'Conservation. By other sections,
trappers, buyers and dealers are required to pay license
fees and to furnish to the department information concerning their respective occupations; an open season is
fixed in each year for the taking of furbearing animals
and alligators respectively, and such taking is prohibited
at other times.
In their complaint, the plaintiffs in error aver that the
defendant in error demands and proposes to enforce payment of the severance tax. They declare that they are
willing to pay the license fee under protest and without
conceding the validity of the act, but that defendant in
error has refused io accept such payment or to issue Hicenses until the severance tax shall have been paid.
It is set forth that the defendant in error has formulated
rules and regulations requiring all shipments of such
skins and hides to have attached thereto a certificate or
label issued by the defendant in error, showing the payment of the severance tax, and prohibiting any cairier
from accepting such shipments if not so labeled. It is
alleged that defendant in error is about to seize and confiscate all shipments of skins and hides to be made by
plaintiffs in error, and that such seizure would be illegal
and would constitute a taking of property without due
process of law, and would inflict upon them irreparable
injury and damages, leaving them without remedy
therefor.
Defendant in error moved to dismiss the suit on the
ground that the complaint failed to state a cause of ac-

LACOSTE v. DEPT. OF CONSERVATION.
545

549

Opinion of the Court.

tion, and the District Court granted the motion. The
case was taken on appeal to the" Supreme Court of
Louisiana, and that court denied all contentions of plaintiffs in error, including one that the, act is repugnant to
the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States and to the Fourteenth Amendment, and affirmed
the judgment.
The wild animals within its borders are, so far as capable
of ownership, owned by the State in its sovereign capacity
for the common benefit of all of its people. Because of
such ownership, 'and in the exercise of its police power
the State may regulate and control the taking, subsequent
use and property rights that may be acquired therein.
Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519, 528; Ward v. Race
'Horse, 163 U. S. 504, 507; Silz v. Hesterberg,211 U. S. 31,
39; Patsone v. Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 138, 143; Kennedy
v. Becker, 241 U. S. 556, 562; Carey v. South Dakota,250
U. S. 118; State v. Rodman, 58 Minn. 393, 400.
Whether the tax here involved might be upheld by
virtue of the power of the State to prohibit, and therefore
to condition, the removal of wild game from the State, we
do not now consider; but dispose of the case upon other
grounds. The commerce clause (Article I, ยง 8, cl. 3) confers on Congress power to regulate interstate and foreign
commerce, and therefore such power is impliedly forbidden to the States. "Even their power to lay and collect
taxes, comprehensive and necessaiy as that power is, cannot be exerted in a way wlhich involves a discrimination
against such commerce." Pennsylvaniav: West Virginia,
262 U. S. 543, 596, and cases cited; Kansas City, &c. Ry.
Co. v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 231; Brimmer v. Rebman,
138 U. S. 78, 82; Elmer v. Wallace, 275 Fed. 86, 90; State
v. Ferrandou, 130 La. 1035, 1041. A State may not enforce any law, the necessary effect of which is to prevent,
obstruct or burden interstate commerce. Pennsylvania

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

v. West Virginia, supra, 596, 597, and cases cited. The
Supreme Court of Louisiana held that the act here in
question is a police regulation and not a revenue act; that
its object is to conserve and protect all furbearing -animals and alligators within its borders, including their
skins and hides; that the various subdivisions of the act
relate to that object, and that payment of the tax is a
condition precedent to the divestiture of the "State's title
and its transfer to the dealer paying the tax. The court
said, in substance, that the tax is necessarily levied upon
dealers, as they. have established places 'of business, make
inventories, and are easily accessible, for the purpose of
collection, and pointed out the difficulties in the way of
levying the charge, at the time of the severing of the skins
or hides, on itinerant trappers with no fixed place of
abode or business.
This Court will determine for itself what is the necessary operation and effect of a state law challenged on the
ground that it interferes with or burdens interstate commerce. The name, description or characterization given
it by the legislature or the courts of the State will not
necessarily control. Regard must be had to the substance
of the measure rather than its form. Looney v. Crane
Co., 245 U. S. 178, 189, et seq.; Kansas City, &c. Ry. Co. v.
Kansas,. supra; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 362; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, 346; Galveston, Harrisburg& San
Antonio Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227. Our exanination of this act discloses no reason why the decision
of the state court should be disturbed. The legislation is
a valid exertion of the police power of the State to conserve and protect wild life for the common benefit. It
is within the power of the State to impose the exaction as
a condition precedent to the divestiture of its title and
to the acquisition of private ownership. Expressly, the
tax is imposed upon all skins and hides taken within-the

LACOSTE v. DEPT. OF CONSERVATION.
545

Opinion of the Court.

State. This includes those, if any, sold for manufacture
in the State as well as those shipped out. In their argument here, plaintiffs in error stated that skins and hides
are not manufactured into finished products in Louisiana,
and that all are shipped out of the State. But that is no
objection to the tax. The State's power to tax property
is not destroyed by the fact that it is intended for and will
move in interstate commerce. Such skins and hides may
be taxed while in the hands of dealers before they move in
interstate commerce. Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 525;
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S.504, 515-516; Arkadelphia Co.
v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 151.
Failure to levy and enforce the tax before the skins and
hides reach the dealers does not make the necessary operation and effect of the law an interference with interstate
commerce. The imposition of the tax on the skins and
hides while in the hands of the dealers is calculated to
make certain that all will be found for taxation. No interference with interstate commerce results from the enforcement of the act. It is not repugnant to the commerce
clause of the Constitution.
Plaintiffs in error contend that the act violates the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment. They argue that legislative authority is improperly delegated to, and that arbitrary power is conferred upon, the Department of Conservation, and that
the severance tax is bad because imposed on such dealers
in addition to property and license taxes that are imposed
on merchants generally.
These contentions are without merit. The act provides "that there be and is hereby levied a severance tax
of two (2c) cents on the. dollar on and of the value of
all skins or hides taken from any wild furbearing animals
or alligators within this State, which severance tax shall
be paid by the deal& . . . under puch rules'and regula-.
tions as shall be determined by the Department of Con-

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

servation...." That department is authorized to ascer-

tain purchas prices of skins and hides paid by the dealer,
to determine the time when and the manner in which the
tax shall be paid, and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations not contrary to the act in relation to the collection
of the tax. It is not shown that defendant in error has
made, or proposes to apply, any unreasonable, capricious
or arbitrary rules, regulations or methods of valuation
for the purpose of arriving at the amount of the tax or
for enforcing its payment. The Fourteenth Amendment
does not require equality of "taxation within the State
or prevent the laying of special or additional taxes upon
.defined classes-of property, .so long as the inequality is not
based upon arbitrary distinctions. It does not prohibit
state legislation imposing a severance tax upon such skins
and hides, even if no similar or corresponding tax is levied'
upon other property of merchants. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, supra, 367, and cases cited.
Singer Sewing Machine Co. v. Brickell, 233 U. S. 304,
315; Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S.114, 121;
Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261, 274. Wild
animals permitted by the State to be taken and reduced
to possession on prescribed conditions may reasonably be
distinguished from other classes of property. Compare
Geer v. Connecticut, supra; Ohio Oil Co. v.. Indiana
(No. 1), 177 U. S.190, 208. The Fourteenth Amendment
does not interfere with the proper exercise of the police
power. Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S.27, 31; Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623, 663; Powell v. Pennsylvania,
127 U. S. 678, 683; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 545, 555;
Reinman v. Little Rock, 237 U. S.171, 177. Protection
of the wild life of the State is peculiarly within- the police
power, and the State has great latitude in determining
what means are appropriate for its protection.
The act is not repugnant to the due process or equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.

