456

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

decided in so many cases that it becomes our, duty to dismiss the writ of error for want of jurisdiction.
Writ of ErrorDismissed.
DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RAILWAY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTF.RN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 330. Argued November- 16, 19, 1923.-'-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce includes
the power to foster, protect and control it, with proper regard for
the welfare of those who are immediately concerned as well as of
the public at large. P. 478.
2. Section 422 of the' Transportation Act 1920, by the new section,
15a, added by it to the Interstate Commerce Act, directs the Interstate Commerce Commision: To - establish rates which will enable
the carriers, as a whole, or by rate groups 'or territories fixed by
the. Commission, .to receive a fair net, operating return upon theproperty they hold in the aggregate for use in transportation (par.
2); to establish from time to time the perceintage of the value of
the lggreg~te property constituting a fair operating return, the
act, however, fixing for the years 1920 and 1921, at 5W%, with&hscreti6n in. the Cokn.ission to add one-half of 1%, as a fund fqr
adding betterments on. capital account, (par. 3); and to fix, from
time to tine, such aggregate property, value. The said § 15a proVides. further: That, because it is impossible to establish uniform
rates on. competitive traffic, adequate to sustain all the carriers
need'ed for the busineqs, without giving some an income in excess
of a fair. return, any carrier -receiving such. excess shall hold it as
trustee for'the -United States, (par. 5); that such exc ss shall be
distributed, one-half to the carrier as a reserve fund, the other half
to a general railroad revolving fund, to be inaintained by theCommission, (par. 6); that the carrier may use such reserve to pay
dividends, interest on securities, or rent for leased roads, to the
extent that. its net operating ific6m6 for any year is less than 6%,
(par. 7); and whenever such reserve equals 5% of the value of its
ptoperty, and while it so continues, the carrier's one-half of excess

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

457

Syllabus.

income may be used for any lawful purpose, (par. 8); that the general revolving fund shall be administered by the Commission in
making loans to carriers to meet expenditures on capital account,
to refund maturing securities originally issued on capital account,
and for buying equipment and facilities and leasing or selling them
,to carriers, (pars. 10-17).
Held: (a) The provisions for "recapture" and use of excess income
are essential to the plan of the act, which aims for an efficient national transportation system, and therein seqks to maintain uniform
rates, for all shippers, as a means of distfibuting traffic and avoiding congestion on the stronger railroads, while keeping the net returns of the railroads, whether strong or weak; to the varying
percentages that are fair for them, respectively. P. 479.
(b) Rates which, as a body; enable all the railroads necessary to do
the business of a rate section, to enjoy not more than a fair net
operating income on the aggregate value of their properties therein
economically and efficiently operated, ar6, in their general level,
reasonable from the standpoint of the individual shipper in that
section. P. 480.
(c) The statute leaves the reasonableness of each particular rate open
to inquiry independently of the net return to the carrier from all.
Pp. 480, 483.
(d) A railroad, however strong financially, economical in facilities,
or favorably situated as to traffic, is not entitled as of constitutional
right to more than a fair, net operating income upon the value of
its properties devoted to transportation. P. 481.
(e) Decisions holding that the fact that the revenue of a carrier from
both local and interstate commerce gave a fair profit was irrelevant
- to the question whether the intrastate rates were unreasonably
high or low, do not make against the use of a fair return of operating profit, as a standard of reasonableness of rates, when the
issue respects the general level of all the rates received by the
carrier. P. 483.
(f) The net operating profit accruing to a carrier from its whole rate
structure is relevant evidence in determining whether the sum of
the rates is fair to the carrier; reduction of excessive profit, a
provided by the act, is tantamount to reducing the rates proportionately before collection. P. 483.
(g) Under the statute, excess income is taken in trust, and the carrier
never has such a title to it as to render its recapture by the Govemnment a taking without due process, in violation of the Fifth
Amendment. P. 484.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.

458

Statement of the Case.

263 U. S.

(h)Inasmuch as the part of the excess income retained by the Government belongs equitably to neither carriers nor shippers, it -may
properly be devoted by the Government, as the act provides, to
help the weaker railroads more effectively to discharge their public
duties. P. 484.
(i) The recapture clause does not, by reducing net income from intrastate rates, invade the reserved power of the States, in violation
of the Tenth Amendment, but, in view of its relation to the plan"
and national purpose of the act, is -within the power of Congress
over interstate commerce. P. 485.
(j) Absence of provision in the act itself for judicial hearing on the
fairness of the return is not a 'constitutional objection, since the
steps prescribed amount to a direct and indirect legislative fixing
of rates, and resort to the courts on the question of confiscation is
left open, under Jud. Code, §§ 208, 211. P. 485.
(k) Limitation of the return to 6%, on the property of- a public
utility, is not necessarily confiscatory. P. 486.
(1) In this case, the issue of confiscation, not having been raised in
the complaining carrier's bill, is not before the Court; but, semble,
. that 8% on the property value reported by the-carrier, remaining
to it after paying the one-half excess income to the Commission, is
not confiscatory. P. 486.
(m) To attack the return allowed, upon the ground that the property valuation upon which it was computed was too low, tlbe bill
should allege the true values. P. 486.
(n) Whether the property values reported by a carrier to the Commission, upon which its net income was calculated, were understated, is a question of fact, to b decided, primarily, at least, by
the Commission, and which cannot be considered by the Court
when the carrier has not invoked the Cbmmission's decision'upon
-

-

it.

P. 487.-

?87 Fed. 728, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court which dismissed a bill brought-by the appellant Railway Company
attaiking the constitutionality of orders made by the InterstateCommerce Commission under the Transportation
Act, and praying that the United States, tho Commission
and a United States district attorney be enjoined from
prosecuting civil or criminal actions to enforce the
,orders.

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.'
456

459

Argument -forAppellant.

Mr. Frank Andrews and Mr. Robert J. Cary, with
whom Mr. Robert H. Kelley and Mr. F. C. Nicodemus, Jr.,
were on the, briefs, for appellant.
I. The property of appellant, held for and used in the
service of transportation during the periods here iivolved,
has remained at all times appellaiit's private property,
ijrotected as'such by the Fifth Amendment.
The income produced by that-property, and the revenues acciuing from its use, are likewise private property
and likewise protected. Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182;
Cleveland, etc. Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439; Omnia
Co. v. United States, 261 U. S. 502; South Utah Mines v.
Beaver County, 262 U.S. 325; Monongahela Co. v. United
States, 148 U. S. 312; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v.
Minnesota, 134. U. S. 418; Reagan v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co.,-154 U. S. 362; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
352; Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U.S. 1; Stone
v. Farmers' Loan &. Trust C., 116 U. S. 307; Northern
PacificRy: do. v. North Dakota,.236 U. S. 585.
II. The provisions of the Transportation Act for the
disposition of net railway income are not a regulation of
interstate commerce, but a direct taking of the private
property of the carrier, and of the liberty of the use of the
property of the carrier, without 'due process of law and
without just compensation.
The dominant purposes of Congress were to release the
railroads from governmental operation, and to prevent the
transportation system of the country from being wrecked.
See Wisconsin R. R. Com I. v. Chicago, Burl. & Q. R. R.
Co., 257 U. S., 563; Senate Committee Report No. 304,
Senate Bill 3288. Cofgress was initiating a new and a
different policy from any'which had theretofore been recognized by national legislation. New England Divisions
Case, 261 U. S. 184.
The contention urged in the Senate. Cominittee report,
supra, that Congress may "declare that the. income

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellant.

263.1. S.

which any particular carrier receives beyond a fairreturn upon the value of its property, it receives as a
trustee for the public and not as its own absolute property," overlooks the elemental considerations of the
powers of Congress under the Constitution.
A carrier has no right to collect, or to-demand of the
shipper, a rate that is not in-and of itself reasonable for
the service. The Commission has no right to fix, and
Congress has no power to compel the shipper'to pay, a
rate that is not reasonable for the service. Nor may
Congress take from the *shipper for governmental purposes anything that is -more than reasonable for the
service. Therefore, the .carrier has no right to collect
an excess service charge and hold the excess as trustde
for the United States. See §15a, par. 17. If the earnings
of the carrier arise from reasonable charges for service
rendered, such earnings are the private property of the
carrier, which cannot, by congressional declaration or
otherwise, be made a trust fund for the United States
or for any other purpose. The taking of property of
the carrier is not a regulation of commerce. Sections 5
and 6 do not regulate. They take the income of the carrier already earned, appropriate -one-half of it to the
Government, and limit the uses of. ihe other half. The
limitations are as much a taking of the 'carrier's property as the appropriation of it direct to the Govqrnmqnt.
Whence comes the power of Congress'to make this
declaration of trust? The'power cannot be defended on
the proposition that it is only a part of the machinery
.for fixing rates. The excess is not to be returned to the
persons who paid excessive provisional charges; and
the act itself doeg not authorize excessive provisional
charges, but directs that r~arges be fixed by the Commission, "in the exercise of its power to lirescribe just
and reasonable rates." Rate regulation cannot be indulged in to enrich the treasury of the Government. ,As.

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

461

Argument for Appellant.

it has .been practiced in this country it is, in theory at
least, designed to protect shippers from unreasonably
high rates and to protect*carriers from unreasonably low
-

rates.

The general level of rates, state and interstate, under
which appellant's earnings accrued to it between March
1, 1920, and December 31, 1921, must be assumed to be
just and reasonable and may not be assumed to be
excessive.
For all practical purposes, these rates were absolutely
fixed by the Commission subject to the obligation of the
carriers to correct maladjustments. But it is immaterial
whether they were fixed or were merely authorized, because in either event they must- have received the ex• press approval of the Commission. The discretion of
the Commission with respect to such adinnistrative
matters is not subject to review by the courts.
The rates and charges under which the appellant
earned the income were not excessive, and there is no
basis of law or fact for assuming that they were otherwise than just, fair -and reasonable, except, perhaps,
where the shippers in particular instances may be entitled under the 'tnt6rstate Commerce Act, to secure
from the Commission an order of reparation requiring
the carrier to refund any excess which the Commission
may find to have existed in those cases. But the
questions of whether any excess did bxist, and if so how
much it was, have by law been committed exclusively
to the determination of the Commission. Texas & Pacific
RV. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426.
The restrictions placed by § 15a upon the use of the
moneys thereby required to be placed in a reserve fund,
constitute a taking of property under. the Fifth Amendment, because an undue limitation upon the use of propertyis equivalent under the"Constitution to a seizure of

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Appellant.

263 U. S

the property. Bransonv.. Bush, 251 U. S. 182; BrooksScalilon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 396;
Pumpelly v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166; Kansas Gas
Co. v. Haskell, 172 Fed. 545; West v. Kansas Gas Co.,'
221 U. S. 229; St. Louis v. Hill, 116 Mo. 527; Spann V'.
Dallas, 111 Tex. 350; Carey v. Atlanta, 143 Ga. 192;
State v. Darnell, 166 N_ C. 300; Chicago, M. & S. P. Ry.
Co. v. Miinesota, 134 U. S. 418; United States v. Cress,
"243 U. S. 316; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445.
The "due process" clause of the Fifth Amendment requires equal legislation affecting generally and in like
manner all those in similar circumstances, and to this extent the Fifth Aiiendment, which does not expressly contain an equal protection clause, is as broad as the Fourteenth Amendment, in which the principle is expressly
stated: Taylor, Due Process, § 134; Leeper v. Texas, 139'
U. S. -462; Giozza v. Tieinan, 148 U. S. 657; Cass Co. v.
Detroit,181 U. S. 396; Tonawanda v. Lyon, 181 U. S. 389;
* Commodities Clause Cases, 213 U. S. 366; Brushaber v.
Union Pacific R. . Co., 240 U. S. 1; Wilson v. New, 243
U. S. 332.
A classification of carriers, for rate-fixing purposes,
solely upon the basis of their net earnings, for performing
a similat service under like conditions in the same territory, is arbitrary and unequal, and therefore takes property without due process, in violation of the Fifth Amendment. Cotting v. G'odard, 183 U. S. 79.
The act deprives appellant of its property without due
process by reason of the entire lack of provision for adjusting the actual earnings to the earnings as shown by
the books' shortly after the close of the annual accounting
period. Sufficient account is not taken of deferred claims
against the carrier, which should be charged against the
surplus. Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U. S. 380; Chicago, M. &
St. P. Ry' .o. v. Wisconsin, 238 U. S. 491.
III. The statute is unconstitutional as to appellant and
th~refore the orders entered in pursuance thereof are void

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

463

Argument for Appellant.

as a violation of the Tenth Amendment, because the recapture provision applies to the net income which is derived from the conduct of intrastate as 'well as interstate
and foreign business, and operates as a limitation upon the
earning power of a Texas corporation with respect to its
business done wholly within that State. The proper regulation of interstate and foreign commerce by Congress and
its agencies has no such real or substantial relation to high
or excessive earnings on purely state business as will justify any limitation upon them by the Federal Government. Adair v. United States, 208 U. S.161; Mondou v.
New York, etc. R. R. Co., 223 U. S.1; Shreveport Case,
234 U. S. 342; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623; Wisconsin Rate Case, 257 U. S. 563; Nathanv. Louisiana,8 How.
73; Galveston,etc.iBy. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S.217; Greene
v. Louisville, etc. R. 1. Co., 244 U. S.499; Sioux City
Bridge Co. v.Dakota County, 260 U. S. 441; Hammer v.
Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251; Bailey v. Drexel Co., 259 U. S.
20. Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. -S.104, distinguished. See also Keller v. United States, 213 U.
S. 138.
IV. ection 15a does not levy or impose a fax and is
not an exercise of the taxing power of Congress,. 'See
New England'DivisionsCase, 261 U. S. 184.
V. The orders of the Commission of January 16th and
March 16th, 1922, expressly diredt and require that, within
a fixed time, one-half of all excess earnings, showni by
the-reports called for in such orders, shall be paid to the
Commission, and inferentially direct and require that the
other one-half of the excess earnings so shown be plac6d"
in the reserve fund contemplate d by § 15a.
'
VI. Appellant is entitled to an injunction against tho
penalties and prosecutions which will be inflicted upon it
and its officers if it continues its refusil to observe the
directions of § 15a and of the orders of the Conmission"
respecting the payment of money to the Commission and
into a reserve fund.

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Int. Com. Comm.

263 U. S.

VII: This record shows conclusively that the true value
of appellant's property, held for and used in the service of
transportation during the respective periods involved,
substantialljr exceeded the amount upon the basis of which
appellant's so-called excess earnings, have been computed.
Therefore, a failure to accord relief herein would result in
taking, as so-called excess earnings, portions of appellant's
private property not justified or required by the terms of
the act in question, without due process of law, in violation of the Fifth Amendment, even if .the act be held valid
for all purposes. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co. v. Public
Service Comm., 262 U. S. 276.
It is alleged in the bill that the so-called value upon
which the Commission computed its claim for excess
earnings was not thetrue value of complainant's property, and, this allegation being taken as true -upon defendant's motion to dismiss the bill, it necessarily follows
that the lower court erred in sustaining the motion.
Foster, Federal Practice, 6th ed.,-§ 366; Detroit 'United
Ry. v. Detroit, 248 U. S. 429; United States v. Railway
Emnployes' Dept., 286 Fed. 228; Krouse v.'Brevard Co.,
249 Fed.o538; Stromberg v. Holley, 260 Fed. 220.
The Commission erred in arbitrarily adopting cost of.
road and equipment as the true value of the complainant's propqrty, and therefore its. order based thereon is
unlawful, and.its enforcement should be enjoined. Value
is,
not measured by cost. Souzth&estern Bell Tel.' Co. v.
Public Service Comm., 262 U. S. 276; Bluefild Water
Works ,Co. v. Public -Service Comm., 262- U. S. .679;
GeorgiaRy. Co. v. RailroadComm., 262 U. S. 625; Smyth
v. Ames, 169 U. S. 546.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor the Interstate Commerce, CommissioM
I. The, orders were made by the Commission as a pro,cedural step deemed by it necessary and appropriate for

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

465

Argument for Int. Com. Comm.

the purpose of enforcing, in so far as with it lies, the provisions of § 15a of. the Interstate Commerce Act, but do
not, in and of themselves, require appellant to pay into
a reserve fund or to the Commission any sum or sums
of money.
II. The requirements d6ntained in the orders are fully"
supported by the authority conferred upon the Commission by the act, and are in accordance with the duties
imposed upon the Commission by par. 9 of § 15a.
III. Appellant is not required by either the provisions
of § 15a or the orders of the Commission to include in-:
come arising from non-carrier sources in excess net railway .operating income.
IV. In Ex parte 74, 58 I. C. C. 220, the Commission
did not fix the rates, fares, and charges for the transportation of passengers and property by railroad in the group
in which appellant's railroad is located.
V. In so far as changes should be made in the valuation of appellant's property, appellant is fully protected
by a provision contained in the orders of the Commission. As for any payments appellant may be required
to make of claims accrued during the periods covered by
the orders, appellant is fully protected by special instructions contained in the Commission's -"Classification of
operating revenues and operating expenses of steam roads,
issue of 1914, effective on July 1, 1914."
Since, in the ordinary course of business, sums of money
paid by a carrier on account of claims like those referred
to by appellant are included in the carrier's accounts for
the years, respectively, in which the payments are made,
regardless of the dates upon which the claims accrue, it
appears to be a reasonable assumption that there are included in the reports made to the Commission by appellant, for the periods covered by the orders of the Commission involved in this case, sums of money paid by
appellant during those periods on account of claims which
accrued in some prior period or periods.
7i308o-24-----30

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Int. Corn, Comm.

263 U. S.

VI. Income derived by appellant from intrastate traffic
may properly be included in the basis upon which appellant's excess net railway operating income iscomputed.
Wisconsin R. R' Comm. v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563.
VII. The provisions of § 15a relating to excess net failway operating income are constitutional and the orders
of the Commission are valid.
As stated by this Court in the Wisc6nsin Case, supra,
the end sought to be accomplished by Congress in framing the Transportation Act, including the provisions of'
§ 15a., was to maintain an adequate national railway
system. That this end is legitimate, andthat the provisions referred to are appropriate and plainlyadapted
to that end, is equally clear. It will be seen that, in prescribing rates, the Commission is both authorized and required to use as a basis the aggregate value of the, railroad
property of the-carriers held for and used in the service,
of, transportation, as a whole; qr as a whole in each Of
-such rate groups or territories as the Commission may
from time to time designate; instead of, and as distinguished from, the-value of the property of an individual
carrier. It is therefore apparent that appellant's contention, thaf, 'as between appellant and the Commission,
the general level of rates in the7 group where appellant's
railroad is located must be presumed to .bereasonable, is
unsound and cannot be sustained.
Regardless of the power of Congress to provide for the,
levying and collecting. of taxes, we .think it is-apparent
-that.the provisions of § 15a, whose validity is called in
question by tppellant, may be upheld as portions of a
scheme of regulation of interstate aid foreign commerce
which Congress has a constitutional right to create and
put in force.
Mr. Solicitor Genera, Beck, with whom Mr. Blackburn
Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, was on the
brief, for.the United States.-

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

467

Argument for the United States.

Whether an adequate system of railway transportation
throughout the continental United States shall be maintained and, to that end, whether the Transportation Act
is a valid exercise of congressional power, is the question.
Whether a particular clause of that act is constitutional
when torn from its setting, is decidedly not the question.
The act stands before the Court with all of the presumptions of validity. Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509.
Moreover, it has thrice been sustained in practically all
of its aspects. Wisconsin R. R. Comm. v. Chicago, B. &
Q. R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
Railroad Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S.184.
The appellant alleges itself to be a common carrier by
railroad subject to the lawful provisions of the Transportation Act and all other lawful acts of Congress regulating railroads engaged in interstate and foreign commerce.
Congress, therefore, has the power to regulate it. St.
Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136;
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186.
The broad purposes of the Transportation Act are repeatedly recited throughout the act. 41 Stat. 476, 477,
482, 488, 489, 491. [Counsel reviewed the history of the
times under which Congress acted and the legislative history of the Transportation Act. See Stafford v. Wallace,:
258 U. S. 513.] The Congress was avowedly considering
the transportation system throughout the continental
United States as a whole. To hold that the Congress enacted the broad provisions to raise revenue, to prescribe
divisions, to provide for settlement of disputes between
carriers and their employees, and for other equally important purposes, in order to maintain an adequate transportation system, and then to annul. and strike down the
standard or basis for which these enormous increased
revenues are to be raised and equitably distributed or

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

263 U. S.

placed, would defeat the whole intention of the*Congress
and bring about a situation more destructive to the public
interest than if no part of the act had ever been passed.
Never in its history, has Congress enacted a statute in
which the sections were so closely interlocked and dependent each upon the other. If paragraphs 5 and 6 of
§ 422 are torn from the body of the act, the whole foundation of the' entire legislative scheme fails.
In cases thus far decided, both the District Courts and
this Court, in approaching the subject, have persistently
exercised the judicial power with a scope coextensive with
the congressional enactment, and have kept the entire act
and all- of the carriers subject thereto in full view at all
times, to the end that all of the incidents to the 'development of an adequate transportation system may move
forward at once and together. The statute is not to be
interpreted and executed along restricted and narrow lines
when dealing with, such a complex and stupendous subject.
In Wisconsin R. R. Comm. v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. R.
Co., 257 U. S. 563, paragraphs 3 and 4 of § 13, and § 15a,
were assailed, but this Court sustained the validity of
the act in all respects. See also PennsylvaniaR. R. Co.
v. Railroad Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72; New England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184.
The proceedings before the Commission and in the
District Court, the arguments in the briefs of counsel
and. at the bar, and the opinion of this Court, all show
that § 15a, practically in its entirety, was involved in the
New England Divisions Case. What this Court said
concerning the so-called "recapture clause ", and other
paragraphs of that section, was not inadvertence, but
squarely within the issues made by the parties. To
sustain the contentions or any substantial part of them,
now advanced by appellant and the numerous amici
curide, would be to overrule the New England Divisions
Case. The opinion in that case is just as conclusive

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

469

Argument for the United States.

of the validity of the recapture paragraphs as if those
paragraphs had been the immediate subject of the controversy instead of the so-called divisions paragraphs.
The Commision- there considered the respective needs
of the several carriers in the distribution of the revenue;
'after it was acquired by the -carriers and before the net
railway operating income reached 6% pf the value of
the railway property held for and used by. each carrier
in the service of transportation. In the instant case
the net -has exceeded 6%. The constitutional rights of
the complainant under the Transportation Act have
thus been fully satisfied. The whole controversy is
over the' overflow. Thus, the questions disposed' of in
the New England Divisions Case reached heights far
beyond anything now claimed by the appellant and the
amici curiae under the recapture clause. If the Congress may authorize the Commission to direct the distribution among the weaker lines of much needed
earnings to maintain an adequate transportation system,
a fortiori, it may direct the recapture of excess earnings
of those who have waxed fat under the Transportation
Act. Swollen earnings derived from necessarily general,
rates for transportation, which the public must *pay,
are not guaranteed by the Constitution.
Paragraphs 5 and 6 may not be segregated from the
paragraphs which have already been upheld. Hill v.
Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co.,
184 U. S. 540.
It cannot seriously be argued that paragraphs 3 and
4 of § 13, paragraph 6 of § 15, and § 15a, of the Interstate Commerce Act, as'amended by the Trapsportation
Act, are not integral parts of the machinery; that is,
the raising of the revenues, the fixing of the divisions,
and "the recapture of the excess earnings, all stand to-.
gether. Opposing counsel, tierefore, are. wedged between th nonsegregation of these several paragraphs,

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for the United States.

263 U. S.

on the one side, and the opinions of this Court in the
Wisconsin Rate Case and the New England Divisions
.Case, on the other side.
Mo'Ppover, it is conceded that paragraphs 2, 3, and 4
of § 15a undoubtedly constitute a regulation of commerce. The argument is that unconstitutionality begins
at the point at which the so-called constitutional guaranty stops.
The Commission has found the value of the steam
railway property subject to the act and held -for and
used in the service of transportation at approximately
$18,900,000,000.
Ex parte 74, 58 I. C. C. 229. The
exercise of the power of Congress, which authorizes the
Commission to increase rates to the public, so as to earn
a net return to each carrier of 6% on the valuation,
cannot in this proceeding be successfully challenged as
confiscatory. The act was passed in the public interest,
which includes the interest of the carriers. Interstate
Commerce Comm. v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 218
U. S. 109; Mlin'nesotaRate Cases, 230 U. S. 441, 467, 471.
There are those who contend that, if all the railroads
were placed in a single system, it would be-unconstitutional for Congress to impose upon them a scheme of
rates which would yield less than a fair return upon the
aggregate value; that the instant case is not different
in principle because of the separation of the railroads
into different systems; therefore the recapture clause is
invalid, because it takes from some roads part of their
earnings and leaves to the roads in the aggregate less
than the fair return upon the property in the aggregate.
Congress deals with the situation as it finds it. With.
the railroads divided into separate systems; there is no
tonstitutional obligation on Congress to make rates
which will yield and leave in the hands of the railroads
in the aggregate a fair return on the aggregate value.
Again, it has been said that ,the true rate-making rule
is to make rates upon the basis of the average results of

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. Si
456

471

Argument for the United States.

all the carriers, and anything that any carrier earns under
this rule is its property and cannot be taken away.
Courts will not limit in this way the right of Congress to
select the means of exercising its constitutional powers;
nor will they declare that any given rule of rate making is
the only rule. There is no reason for the courts to say
that -Congress is prohibited from adopting some other
rule of rate making, as, for example, that rates on prosperQus roads shall be only such as will yield them a fair
return; in which event competition would force corresponding rates on the weak roads.
It has also been suggested that Congress has not the
liower to bankrupt the railroads by fixing rates for the
prosperous roads which, while constitutional. as to them,
would, through competitive influences, leave other roads
without a fair return. There can be no such operation of
the constitutional principle. The Government might
buy and operate a railroad'between Chicago and New
York and might charge exceedingly low rates. This
might be disastrous to other railroads, but how could it
be said that their property had been taken by legislative
enactment without due process of law merely because
they, as the result of competition, had been unfavorably
affected bJ an act of the Government which in itself would
be entirely lawful?
The Transportation Act was designed to help the transportation situation, and did help -it. If the railroads had
gone back to private control without the specific ratemaking rule prescribed in the Transportation Act, the
railroads could not have increased their rates to anything
like the extent they were permitted to increase them
under the Transportation Act. If the more fragmentary
rules which had theretofore been applied had been -applied to the new situation, it is perfectly clear that the'
net increase would have been much smaller. It would be
surprising if a rule which was intended to be more liberal-

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1923,
Argument for the United Statem.

263 U. S.

in practice to the railroads, and which in fact was more
liberal to them, should be regarded as unconstitutional,
when the rules theretofore in effect of a more fragmentary
character and affording less protection to the carriers
would be regarded as constitutional.
If there are any carriers which have a constitutional
right to object to the rule of the' Transportation Act, they
are the weaker carriers, because the act makes it practically certain that rates will not be high enough to give
them a fair return. But, those carriers are not objecting,
and in the nature of things will not object, because the
rule gives them more than they would otherwise get in
practice. And it is impossible to see how carriers which
are getting more than they are constitutionally entitled
to, can say that the rule that gives them that amount is
unconstitutional.
Decisions are legion, and Congress took notice of them
in enacting the Transportation Act, on the subject of the
right of carriers to earn a fair return on the value of the
property used in the service of the public. See Chicago,
M. & S. P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418; Reagan v.
Farmers'L. & T. Co., 154 U. S. 362; Smyth v. Ames, 169
U. S. 466; Galveston Elec. Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388;
Minnesota Rate Cases, supra. Likewise with respect to
the classification of railroads: Chicago, B. & Q. R. R.
Co. v. Iowa, 94 U. S. 155; Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339; Dow. v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680.
Each individual case must rest upon its own peculiar facts
and circumstances. Covington, etc. Co. V. Sandford, 164
U. S. 578.
The principle upon which the recapture clause was
founded was not unknown to our law. See Noble State
Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104.; Mountain Timber Co. v.
Washington, 243 U. S.- 219.'
Counsel argue that the statutory half-and-half division
between the Government and the company of the excess

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

473

Argument for the United States-

earnings is arbitrary, and that, if sustained, it might subsequently be revised, and the proportion of the company
from titme to time be so reduced as to reach zero. Similar
arguments in other cases have been rejected as irrelevant.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. CorporationComm., 206
U. S. 1; Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104.
Likewise the argument may not prevail that appellant,
owing to claims and suits for loss and damage, overcharges, etc., may not close records and submit reports of
earnings for a specified year because of undetermined liability, as it presents a general administrative 'question
which clearly belongs to the rules and regulations of the
Interstate Commerce Commission covering such matters.
The Court would not determine such questions in advance
of the facts of the particular case.
Opposing counsel try to make much of the language
of the District Court that the recapture of the excess earnings was in the nature of a tax. One of the briefs points
out that the Interstate Commerce Commission has not
become a tax assessor and collector, that, as the moneys
Are not paid into the Treasury by the carriers and paid out
by the Treasurer, there is no tax, hence the District Court
erred. The tax referred to in the New England Divisions
Case, is very much the same as the tax referred to in the
Mountain Timber Case. The point does not require further discussion.
There is little in the briefs of opposing counsel which
meets the holding of the District Court that appellant
never acquired title to the fund as its absolute property
but that it holds the same as trustee for the United States.
The Transportation Act does not interfere with intrastate commerce. Wisconsin Rate Case, 257 U. S. 587.
Mr. Samuel W. Moore, by leave of Court, filed a brief
for the Kansas City Southern Railway Company, as
amicus curiae.

474

OCTOBER TERM,. 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

.Messrs. Joseph Paxton Blair, Edgar H. Boles, John F.
Bowie, Robert J. Cary, Henry W. Clark, Herbert Fitzpatrick,Lawrence Greer, W. S. Horton, William S. Jenney,
E. W. Knight, Richard V. Lindabury, Will H. Lyford,
Samuel W. Moore, William Church Osborn, Winslow S.
Pierce, Henry V. Peor, John H. Agate and Carl A. de
Gersdorff, by leave of Court, filed a brief for the numerous
railroad companies nalned in the footnote, post, 475, as
amici curiae.
Mr. Winslow S. Pierce, Mr. Lawrence Greer and Mr. F.
C. Nicodemus, Jr., by leave of Court, filed a brief for the
.Wa'uash Railway Company, the Western Maryland Railway Company, and the St. Louis Southwestern Railway
Company, as amici curiae.
Mr. John G. Milburn and Mr. Forney Johnston, by
leave of Court, filed a brief for the National Association
of Owners of Railroad Securities, as amici curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Cour
The main question in this case is whether the so-called
"recapture" paragraphs of the Transportation Act of
1920, c. 91, § 422, § 15a, paragraphs 5-17, 41 Stat. 456,
489-491, are constitutional.
The Dayton-Goose Creek Railway Company is a corporation of Texas, engaged in intrastate, interstate and foreign
commerce. Its volume of intrastate traffic exceeds that
of its interstate and foreign traffic. •In response to orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, the carrier made
returns for ten months of 1920, and for the full year of
1921, reporting the value of its railroad property employed in commerce and its net revenue' therefrom. It
earned $21,666.24 more than six per cent. on the value of
its property in the ten months of 1920, and $33,766.99

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

475

Opinion of the Court.

excess in the twelve months of 1921. The Commission
requested it to report what provision it had made for setting up a fund to preserve one-half of these excesses, and
to remit the other half to the Cormmission.
The carrier then fied the present bill, setting forth the
constitutional invalidity of the recapture provisions of the
act and the orders of the Commission based thereon,
averring that it had no adequate remedy at law to save
itself from the irreparable wrong about to be done to it by
enforcement of the provisions, and praying that the defendants,, the United States, the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and the United States District Attorney for
the Eastern District of Texas, be temporarily restrained
from prosecuting any civil or criminal suit to enforce the
Corpnnission's orders, and that the court on final hearing
make the injunction permanent. The Commission answered the bill. The United States and the District Attorney moved to dismiss it for want of equity jurisdiction,
and for lack of equity. An application for an interlocutory injunction before a court of three judges under the
Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, was
denied and the court, proceeding to consider the equities,
dismissed the bill.
The question of equity jurisdiction raised below has not
been discussed here by counsel for the appellees either
upon their briefs or in oral argument. They do not rely
on ii, but seek without delay a decision on the merits.
, While the Dayton-Gobse Creek Railway Company was
the sole complainant below and is the sole appellant here,
nineteen other railway companies have, as amici curiae,
upon leave granted, filed briefs in support of its appeal.
Their names appear in the margin.1
'Southern Pacific Company; Lehigh Valley Railroad Company;
Western Pacific Railroad Corporation; New York Central Railroad
Company; Union Pacific Railroad Company; Chesapeake & Ohio
Railway Company; Western Maryland Railway Company; Illinois

476

OCTOBER TERM,, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

By § 422 of the Transportation Act, there was added to
the existing Interstate Commerce Act and its amendments, § 15a. The section in its second paragraph directs

the Commission to establish rates whichi will enable the
carriers, as a whole or by rate groups or territories fixed
by the Commission, to receive a fair net op6rating return
upon the property they hold in the aggregate for use in
transportation. By paragraph 3, the Commission is to
establish from time to time and make public the percentage of the value of the aggregate property it regards as a
fair operating return, but for 1920 and 1921 such a fair
return is to be five and a half per, cent., with discretion in
the Commission to add one-half of one per cent. as-a fund
for adding betterments on capital account. By paragraph 4, the Commission is to fix the aggregate value of
the property from time to time, using in doing so the results of its valuation of the railways as provided ih § 19a
of the Interstate Commerce Act, so far as they are available, and all the elements of value recognized by the law
of the land for rate-making purposes, including so far as
the Commission may deem it proper, the investment account of the railways.
Paragraph 5 declares that, because it is impossible to
establish uniform rates upon competitive traffic which
will adequately sustain all the carriers needed to do the
business, without giving some of them a net income in
excess of a fair return, any carrier receiving such excess
shall hold it in the manner thereafter prescribed as
trustee for the United States.

Paragraph 6 distributes

Central Railroad Company; Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Company; Virginian Railway Company; Duluth, Missabe &
Northern Railway Company; Chicago & Eastern Illinois Railway.
Company; Kansas City Southern Railway Company; El Paso &
Southwestern Railroad Company; St. Louis Southwestern Railway,
Company and Wabash Railway Company; Pere Marquette Railway
Company; New York, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company; and
the New Orleans, Texas & Mexico Railway Company.

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

477

Opinion of the Court.

the excess, one-half to a reserve'fund to be maintained
'by the carrier, and the other half to a general railroad
revolving fund to be maintained by the Commission.
Paragraph 7 specifies the only uses to which .the carrier
may apply its reserve fund. They are the payment, of
interest on bonds and other securities, rent for leased
lines, -and.the payment of dividends, to the extent that
its operating income for the year is less than six per cent.
When the reserve fund equals five per cent. of the value
of the railroad property, and as long as it continues 'to
do so, the carrier's one-half of the excess income may
for any lawful purpose. Under paragraph
be used by it,
10, and subsequent paragraphs, the general railroad revolving fund is to be administered by the Commission
in making loans to carriers to meet expenditures on
capital account, to refund maturing securities originally
issued on capital account and for buying equipment and
facilities and leasing or selling them to carriers.
This Court has recently had occasion to construe the
Transportation Act. In Wisconsin R. R. Commission v.
C. 'B. & Q. R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, it was held that the
act in .seeking to render the interstate commerce railway
system adequate to the country's. needs had, by §§ 418
and 422, conferred on the Commission valid power and
duty to raise the level of intrastate rates when it found
that they were so low as to discriminate against interstate commerce and'unduly to burden it. In-the'New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, it was held that
under § 418 the Commission in making division of joint
rates between groups of carriers might in the public
-interest consult the financial needs of a weaker group
in order to maintain it in effective operation -s part
of an adequate transportation system, and give it a,
greater shar of such rates if the share of the other group
was adequate to avoid a-confiscatory result.

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

In both cases it was pointed out that the Transportation Act adds a new and important object to previous
interstate commerce legislation, which was designed primarily to prevent unreasonable or discriminatory rates
against, persons and localities. The -new act seeks
affirmatively to build up a system of railways prepared
to handle promptly all the interstate traffic of the
country. It aims to give the owners of the railways an
opportunity to earn enough to maintain their properties and equipment in such a state of -efficiency that
they can carry well this burden. To achieve this great
purpose, it puts the railroad systems of the country more
completely than-ever under the fostering guardianship
and control of the Commission,, which is to supervise
their issue of securities, their car supply and distribution,
their joint use of terminals, their construction of new
lines, their abandonment of old lines, and by a proper
division of joint rates, and by flxing adequate rates--for
interstate commerce, and in case of discrimination, for
intrastate commerce, to secure a fair return' upon the
properties of the carriers engaged.
It was insisted in the two cases referred to, and it is
insisted here, that the power to regulate interstate commerce is limited to the fixing of reasonable rates and the
prevention of those which are discriminatory, and that
when these objects are attained, the power of regulation is exhausted. This is too narrow a view of the commerce clause. :To regulate in the sense intended is to
foster, protect and control the commerce with appropriate regard to the welfare of those who are immediately
concerned, as well as the public at large, and to promote its
growth and insure its safety. The Daniel Bali, 10 Wall.
557, 564' County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691;
696, 697; Californiav. Pac'fir.,R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1,39;
Wilson v. Shaw, 204 U. S. 24, 33; Second Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 47; Luxton v. North River

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

479

Opinion of the Court.

Bridge Co., 153 U. S. 525, 529. Mr. Justice Bradley,
speaking for the Court in Californiav. Pacific R. R. Co.
(p. 39), said:
"The power to construct, or to authorize individuals or
corporations to construct, national highways and bridges
from State to State, is essential to the complete contrb1
and regulation of interstate commerce. . . . This
power in former times was exerted to a very limited extent,
the Cumberland or National road being the most notable
instance. . . . But since, in consequence of the expansion of the country, the multiplication of its products,
and the invention of railroads and locomotion by steam,
land transportation has so vastly increased, a sounder consideration of the subject has prevailed and led to the conclusion that Congress has plenary power over the whole
subje.ct."
If Congress may .build railroads under the commerce
clause, it may certainly exert affirmative control over
privately owned railroads, to see 'that such railroads are
equipped to perform, and do perform, the requisite publid
service.
Title IV of the Transportation Act, embracing §§ 418
and 422, is carefully framed to achievi its expiessly declared objects. Uniform rates enjoined for all shippers
will tend to divide the business in proper proportion so
that, when the burden is great, the railroad of each carrier will be used to its capacity. If-the weaker roads were
permitted to chargpe higher rates than their competitors,
the business would seek the stronger roads with the lower
rates, and congestion would follow. The directions giveu
to the Commission in fixing uniform rates will tend to put
them on a scale enabling a railroad of average efficiency
among all the carriers of the section to earn the prescribed maximum return. Those who earn more must hold
one-half of the excess primarily to preserve their sound'
economic condition and avoid wasteful expenditures and

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
'Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

unwise dividends. Those who earn less are to be given
help by credit secured through a fund made up of the
.'other half of the excess. By the recapture clauses Congress is enabled to maintain uniform rates for all shippers
and yet keep the net returns of railways, whether strong
or weak, to the varying percentages which are fair respectively for them. The recapture clauses are thus the key
provision .of the whole plan.
Having regard to the property rights of the carriers and
-the interest of the shipping public, the validity of the plan
depends on two propositions.
First. Rates which as a body enable all the railroads
necessary to'do the business of a rate territory or section,
to enjoy not more than a fair net operating income on the
.aggregate value of their properties therein economically
and efficiently operated, are reasonable from the standpoint of the individual shipper in that section. He with
every other shipper similarly situated in the same section
is vitally interested in having'a system which can do all the
business dffered. If 'there is congestion, he suffers with
the rest. He may, therefore, properly be required in the
rates he pays to share with all other shippers of the same
section the burden of maintaining an adequate railway
capacity to do their business. This conclusion makes it
unnecessary to discuss the question mooted whether shippers are deprived of constitutional rights when denied reasonable rates.
It should be noted that, in reaching a conciusion, upon
this first proposition, we are only considering the general
level of rates and their direct bearing upon the net return
of the entire group. The statute does not require that
the net return from all the rates.shall affect the reasonableness of a particular rate or a class of rates. In such
an inquiry, the Commission may'haveregard to the service done, its intrin~ic cost, or a comparison of it with other
rates, and need not consider the total net return at all.
Paragraph 17 of § 15a, makes this clear:

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
Opinio of the Court.

456

"The provisions of this section shall not be construed as
depriving shippers of their right to reparation in case of
overcharges, unlawfully excessive or discriminatory rates,
or rates excessive in their relation to other rates, but no
shipper shall be entitled to recover upon the sole ground
that any particular rate may reflect a proportion of excess
income to be paid by the carrier to the Commission in the
public interest under the provisions of this section."
This last clause only prevents the shipper from objecting to a particular rate otherwise reasonable, on the
ground that the net return from the whole body of rates
is in excess of a fair percentage of profit, a circumstance
that was never relevant in such an inquiry, as hereafter
shown.
Second. The carrier owning and operating a railroad,
however strong financially, however economical in its facilities, or favorably situated as to traffic, is not entitled as
of constitutional right to more than a fair net operating.
income upon the value of its properties which are being
devoted to transportation. By investment in a business
dedicated to the public service the owner must recognize
that; as compared with investmefit in private business, he
can not expect either high or speculative dividerds but
that his obligation imits him to only fair or reasonable
profit. If the company owned the only railroad engaged
in transportation in a given section and was doing all the
business, this would be clear. If it receives a fair return.
on its property, why should it make any difference that
other and competing railroads in the same section are permitted to receive higher rates for.a service which it costs
them more to render and from which they receive no better net return? Classification of railways in the matter of
adjustment of rates has been sustained in numerous cases.
In the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 469, 473, it
was held thdt the rates imposed by the State upon two
railways were not confiscatory but that they were so in
74308*--

1

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

the case of a third railway performing service in the same
territory, because the laiter was put to greater expense
in rendering the service. An injunction was refused to the
first two railways and was granted to the third. The same
ptinciple has been .upheld in analogous cases. Chicago,
Burlington& Quincy R. R. Co. v. Iowa, 94-U. S. 155; Dow
v. Beidelmati, 125 U. S. 680; Chicago & Grand Trunk Ry.
Co,v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339; Interstate Commerce Cornmission v. Union PacificR. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 549, 551;
Northern 1acific Ry. Co. v. North .Dakota,236 U. S. 585,
599, et seq.
It is argued that to cut down the operating profit of the
stronger roads to a certain per cent. is not cutting or reducing rates, since the net income of a carrier has no
proper relation to rates and can not be used as evidence
of their reasonableness. Northern Pacific Ry., Co. v.
North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, and Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Union Pacific R. R, Co. 222 U. S. 541, are
,cited to this point. They merely decide that where the
reasonableness of one rate or a class of rates is in issue, the
total operating -profit of the railroad or publio utility is
of little use in reaching a conclusion. This is shown by
ihe words of Mr. Justice Lamar, speaking for the Court,
in Interstate,*Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co. (p. 549):
"Where the rates as a whole, are under.conside Xation,
there is a possibility of deciding, with-more or less certainty, whether the total earnings afford a reasonable re-,
turn. But whether the carrier earned dividends or not
sheds little light on the question as to whether the rate'on
a particular article is reasonable. For, if the carrier's
totat inconre enables it to declare a dividend, that would
not justify an order-requiring it to haul one class 6f goods
for nothing, or for less than a reasonable rate. On the
othe6 hand, if the tarrier earned no dividend, it would not
have warranted an order fixing an unreasonably high rate
on such article."

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

483

Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing in the act requiring the use of the net
return as evidence to fix a particular rate. As we have
already pointed out, paragraph '17, § 15a, gives 'fullest
latitude for evidence on such an-issue.
'Reliance is also had on decisions of this-Court in eases
where the question Was of the reasonableness of state
rates, and it was held that evidence to show that the
revenue of 'the carrier from both state and interstate cornmerce gave a fair profit, was not relevant. 'The State can
not justify unreasonably low rates for domestic transportation, considered alone, upon the ground that the
carrier is earning large profits on its interstate business,
and on the other hand the carrier can riot justify unreasonably high rates on domestic business on the ground
that only in that way is it able to meet losses on its inter-,
staie business. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,"
435; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, .541. But this conclusion does not make against the use 9of a fair return
of 'operating profit as a standard of reasonableness of
rates when the issue is as to the g6neral level' of all the
.1
rates received by the carrier..
The reduction of the net operating return provided by
the recapture clause is, as near as may be, the same thing
as if rates had all been reduced proportionately before
collection. It is clearly unsound to say that th*e net 6perating profit accruing from a whole rate 'structure is not
relevant evidence in determining whether the sum of the
rates is fair...The investment is made on the faith of. a
profit, the profit accrues from'the balance left after deducting expenses from-the product of the rates, and the
assumption is that the operation is economical and -theex
penditurts are reasonably necessary. ; If the profit is fair,
the sum of the rates is so. If the profit is excessive, the
sum of the rates is so. One obvious way, to make the
sum cdf the rates, reasonable so far as the carrier is concerned is'toreduce its p-rofit to what'is fair.

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

We have been greatly pressed with the argument that
the cutting down of income actually received by-the carrier for its service to a so-called fair return is a plain approprition of its property without any 6ompensation,
that the income it receives for the use of its property is as
much protected by the Fifth Amendment as the property
itself. The statute declares the carrier to be only a trustee
for the excess over a fair return received by it. Though
in its possession, the excess never becomes its property
and it accepts custody of the product of all th6 rates with
this understanding. It is clear, therefore, that the carrier
never has such a title to the excess as to render the recapture of it by the Government a taking without due
process.
It is then objected that the Government has no right
to retain one-half of the excess, since, if it does not belong to the carrier, it belongs to the shippers and should
be returned to them. If it were valid, it is an objection
which the carrier can not be heard to make. It would
be soon enough to consider such a claim when made, by
the shipper. But it is not valid. The rates'are reasonable from the standpoint of the shipper as we have
shown, though their net product furnishes more than
a fair return for the carrier. The excess caused by 'the
discrepancy between the standard of reasonableness for
the shipper and that for the carrier due to the necessity
of -maintaining uniform rates to be charged the shippers,
may properly be appropriated by the Government for
i-ublic uses because the appropriation takes away nothing which equitably belongs either to the shipper or to
the carrier. Yet it is made up of payments for service
to the public in transportation, and so it' is properly "to
be devoted to creating a fund for helping the weaker
roads more effectively to' discharge their public duties.
Indirectly and ultimately this should benefit the shippers by bringing the Wiaker roads nearer in point of

DAYTON-GOOSE CREEK RY. v. U. S.
456

485

Opinion of the Court.

economy and efficiency to the' stronger roads and thus
making it just and possible to reduce the uniform rates.
The third question for our consideration is whether
the recapture clause; by reducing the net income from
intrastate rates, invades the reserved power of the States
and is in conflict with the Tenth Amendment. In solving
the problem of maintaining the efficiency of an interstate commerce railway system which serves both the
States and the Nation, Congress is dealing with a unit
in which state and interstate operations are often inextricably commingled. When the adequate maintenance
of interstate commerce involves and makes necessary
on this account the incidental and partial control of
intrastate commerce, the power of Congress to exercise
such control has been clearly established.
Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 432, 433; Illinois- Central
R. R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 477; The Shreveport
Case, 234 U. S. 342, 351; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v.
State Public Utilities Comm., 245 U. S. 493, 506; Wisconsin RailroadCommission v. Chicago, Burlington& Quincy
R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563. The combinatiir of uniform
rates with the recapture clauses is necessary to the better
development of the country's interstate transportation
system as Congress has planned it. The control of the
excess profit due to the level of the whole body of rates
is the heart of the plan. To divide that excess and attempt to distribute one part to interstate traffic and the
other to intrastate traffic would be impracticable and
defeat the plan. This renders indispensable the incidental control by Congress of that part of the excess
possibly due to intrastate rates which if present is indistinguishable.
It is further objected that no opportunity is given
under § 15a .for a judicial hearing as to whether thereturn fixed is a fair. return. The steps prescribed in
the act constitute a'direct and.indirect legislative fixing

486*

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

of rates. No special provision need be made in the
act for the judicial consideration of its reasonableness
on the issue of confiscation. Resort to the courts for'
such an inquiry exists under §§ 208 and 211 of the Ju- dicial Code. it is only where such opportunity is withheld that a provision for legislative fixing of rates violates
the Federal Constitution. Ohio Valley Water Co. v. Ben
Avon Borough, 253 U. S. 287.
The act fixes the fair return for the years here involved, 1920 and 1921, at five and a half per cent. and
the Commission exercises its discretion to add one-half
a per cent. The .case of Bluefield Water Works & Improvement .Co. v. Public Service Commission, 262 U.
S. 679, is cited to show thet a return of six per cent. on
the property of a public utility is confiscatory. But six
per cent. was not found confiscatory in Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 48, 50; in Cedar Rapids
Gas Light 'Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 223 U. S. 655, 670; or
in Des Moines Gas Co. v. Des Moines, 238 U. S. 153, 172.
Thus the question of the minimum of a fair percentage
on .value is shown to vary with the circumstances. Here
we are relieved from considering the line between a fair
return -nd confiscation, because under the provisions of
the act and the-reports made by the appellant the return
which it will receive after paying one-half the excess to
the Commission will be about eight per cent. on' the
reported value. This can hardly be. called confiscatory.
Moreover the appellant .did not raise the issue of confiscation in its bill and it can not properly be said to be
before us.
It is also said in argument that the value. of the carrier's
property upon which the net income was calculated was
too low and was unfair to the carrier. The value of property, it is argued, really depends on the profit to be ex.pected from its use, and should be calculated on the income from rates prevailing when the law was passed which'

QUEEN INS. CO. v. GLOBE INS. CO.
456

487

Syllabus.

must be presumed to have been reasonable. The true
value of the carrier's property would thus be shown to be
so. much higher than reported, that the actual, return
would be not higher .than six per cent. of it and there
would be no excess.
We do not think that, with the record as it is, such an
argument is open to the appellant. It did allege that the
values upon which the return was estimated were not the
true values, but it did not allege what the true values
were. This was not good pleading and did not properly
tender the issue on the question of value. Under orders
of the Commission, the carrier itself reported the values
of its properties for 1920 and 1921, upon which the excesses of income were calculated. The bill averred that a
return of these particular values was required under the
orders of the Commission. This statement is not borne
out by the orders themselves. They gave the carrier full
opportunity to report any other values and to support
them by evidence. This it did not do. We can not consider an issue of fact that was primarily'at least committed by the act to the Commission, when the carrier
has not invoked the decision of that tribunal.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed.
QUEEN INSURANCE COMPANY OF AMERICA v.
GLOBE & RUTGERS FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 116. Argued December 6, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. Clauses in a marine insurance policy excepting, "all -consequences
of hostilities or warlike operations," and in a war risk insurance
policy insuring against acts "authorized by and in prosecution of

hostilities," should be construed narrowly as applicable only where
warlike acts or operations are the proximate cause of a loss. P. 492.

