540

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U.S.

any claim for or in respect to which he or any assignee
of his has pending in any other court any suit or process
against any person who, at the time when the cause of
action alleged in such suit or process arose, was, in respect thereto, acting or professing to act, mediately or
immediately, under the authority of the United States."
At the time the alleged causes of action arose the
President was acting under the authority of the United
States, and the actions being against an agent appointed
by and acting for him, fall within the terms of the statute
just quoted. It is urged, however, that the actions were
brought, ex necessitate rei, because they were about to
become barred by expiration of the statutory period of
limitation and. that, for this and other reasons, the case
is not within the spirit of § 154 properly construed. But
the words of the statute are plain, with nothing in the
context to make their meaning doubtful; no room is left
for construction, and we are not at liberty to add an exception in order to remove apparent hardship in particular cases. See Amy v. Watertown, 130 U. S. 320;
St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor,
210 U. S.281, 295; United States v. First National Bank,
234 U. S. 245, 259-260.
Appeal dismissed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO SOUTHWESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. BURTCH, ADMINISTRATRIX OF BURTCH.
CERTIORARI

No. 115.

TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF THfE STATE
INDIANA.

OF

Argued December 3, 4, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.

1. In determining whether a case appealed from a state court should
have been governed by the Federal Employers' Liability Act, uncontradicted evidence establishing the interstate character of a
shipment must prevail here over the special findings and general
verdict of the jury. P. 543.

B. & 0. S. W. R. R. v. BURTCH.
540

Opinion of the Court.

2. Authority of the conductor of a freight train to employ a
bystander to assist in unloading heavy freight may be derived
from custom and the exigency of the occasion. P. 543.
3. The unloading, at destination, of an interstate shipment, by employees of the carrier, is so closely related to interstate commerce
as to be practically a part of it. P. 544. Shanks v. Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556.
4. The liability of an interstate carrier for an accident suffered by
a part owner of a heavy article of freight while assisting, as the
carrier's employee, in unloading it from the car, was not affected
by the existence of a rule filed by the carrier with the Interstate
Commerce Commission requiring owners of such articles, under
stated conditions, to unload them, since the rule did not affect
the relations between the carrier and its employees, but must be
observed only to prevent discrimination among shippers, and failure to enforce it was no part of the cause, but was merely an
attendant circumstance, of the accident. P. 544.
134 N. E. 858, reversed.

CERTIoRARi to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana, affirming a judgment, for personal injuries, recovered by the respondent's intestate in an action against
the petitioner.
Mr. William A. Eggers, with whom Mr. Morison R.
Waite, Mr. Harry R. McMullen and Mr. Cassius W.
McMullen were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Oscar H. Montgomery, with whom Mr. T. Harlan
Montgomery, Mr. Merrill Moores and Mr. Wim. J.
Hughes were on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Justice SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action brought by .Guerney 0. Burtch against
the Railroad Compaiy to recover damages for a personal
injury suffered, as a result of the company's negligence,
while he was engaged in assisting to unload a heavy ensilage cutter from a freight train at Commiskev. Tndiana.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U.S.

After the allowance of the writ of certiorari Burtch died
and his administratrix was substituted as respondent.
The complaint is in two counts, the only one necessary
to be considered being drawn upon the theory that at the
time of the injury Burtch was an employee of -the company and both were engaged in intrastate commerce.
The answer denies the allegations of the complaint and
alleges facts to establish that at the time of the injury
they were engaged in interstate commerce. The contention, therefore, upon the one hand, was that the case
was governed by the State, and upon the other hand, that
it was governed by the Federal, Employers' Liability Act.
The distinction is material, since certain common law defences abrogated by the former, are still available under
the latter.
It is clear that the trial court assumed that the state
and not the national law applied and the case was submitted to the jury upon that theory; and this presents the
only question which it is necessary for us to consider.
The jury returned a verdict in Burtch's favor, the judgment upon 'which was affirmed by the Supreme Court.
134 N. E. 858.
That the train carrying the cutter came from Louisville, Kentucky, is not disputed; but it is contended that
there was no evidence from which it could be determined
that the shipment originated there or at any other point
outside the State of Indiana; and the jury, in answer to
certain interrogatories, so found. These interrogatories
and answers are as follows:
"C
Did said car come in said train from Louisville, Kentucky, to Commiskey?
"Ans. The train came from Louisville. No evidence
where car came from.
"Did said cutter come to said Commiskey in said car
from Louisville, Kentucky?
"Ans. No evidence."

B. & 0. S. W. R. R. v. BURTCH.
540

•543

Opinion of the Court.

If, in truth, there be no evidence from which these facts
can be found or if the evidence be conflicting, we can, of
course, inquire no further. • But if, on the contrary, the
uncontradicted evidence affirmatively establishes that the
shipment originated in Louisville, Kentucky, and thence
was carried to Commiskey, Indiana, it was an interstate
shipment, and neither the special findings nor the general verdict will preclude us from so holding. Lurton, the
consignee, testified that he obtained the cutter "through
an Indianapolis concern but it was shipped from a warehouse in Louisville," and that the bill of lading was made
out to him from Louisville to Commiskey. Hartwell, a
telegraph operator, testified that the freight train came
from Louisville and "this cutter was in one of the cars
of that train that came from Louisville." This constitutes
the entire evidence upon the point and plainly establishes
the interstate character of the shipment. But this is not
enough. It is necessary to show further that "the employee at the time of the injury [was] engaged in interstate transportation or in work so closely related to it as
to be practically a part of it." Shanks v. Delauare,
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 239 U. S. 556, 558.
There is a preliminary dispute as to whether Burtch
stood in the relation of employee at the time of the injury,
and this we first consider. The testimony shows that
Burtch wasnot regularly employed but that he engaged in
this particular work at the request of the train conductor,
because it was necessary to unload the cutter and the
train crew was unable to do so without help. The evidence tends to show that the conductor, in making the request, followed a long-standing practice to call upon bystanders to assist in unloading heavy freight. These
facts, either undisputed or established by the verdict of
the jury under appropriate instructions, are ample to sustain the conclusion reached below that there was an
exigency which authorized the conductor to employ out-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

side assistance and that Burtch, for the time being, occupied the relation of employee to the company. See,
for example, Marks v. R1ailway Co., 146 N. Y. 181,
189-190; Fox v. Chicago, St. P. & K. C. Ry. Co., 86 Iowa,
368, 373; Haluptzok v. Great Northern Ry. Co.,'55 Minn.
446, 450; Maxson v. Case Threshing Machine Co., 81
Neb. 546, 550; Aga v. Harbach, 127 Iowa, 144. The
train upon arrival at Commiskey drew in upon a sidetrack
where the cutter was unloaded and the train then proceeded on its way. It was while assisting in this work
that Burtch sustained the injury sued for; It is too plain
to require discussion that the loading or unloading of an
interstate shipment by the employees of a carrier is so
closely related to interstate transportation as to be practically a part of it, and it follows that the facts fully
satisfy the test laid down in the Shanks Case, supra.
. It appears that Burtch was interefted in the cutter as
part owner and it is contended that in complying with the
request of the conductor he assumed all responsibility because, in doing so, he simply discharged a duty imposed
by a rule filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission,
requiring owners of heavy freight, under stated circumstances, to unload it. The evidence, however, not only
tends to show that conditions requiring compliance with
the rule were absent, but the point is immaterial in view
of the finding of the jury to the effect that Burtch assisted
in the work not as owner but in the capacity of an employee. Observance of the rule in question is required
only to prevent discrimination among shippers. It has
nothing to do with the interrelations of the carrier and its
employees.
Moreover, the failure to enforce the rule, if such there
was, constituted no part of the causal sequence of events.
Such failure would be merely an attendant circumstance,
neither causing nor contributing to cause the injury,
which, on the contrary, came about as the result of physi-

-LACOSTE v. DEPT. OF CONSERVATION.

545

Syllabus.

540

cal facts and conditions wholly apart therefrom. If, there-'
fore, a violation of the rule be aSsumed it would not avail
to relieve the company from a liability which would otherwise exist. See Moran v. Dickinson, 204 Mass. 559, 562;
Newcomb v. Boston Protective Department, 146 Mass.
596; Currelliv. Jackson, 77 Conn. 115, 122.
Upon the facts now disclosed by the record the case is
one arising under and governed by the Federal Employ-.
ers' Liability Act and in that view it should have been
submitted to the jury. The judgment of the State
Supreme Court is reversed and the cause remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed:
LACOSTE ET AL. v. DEPARTMENT OF CONSERVATION OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 65. Argued October 11, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. By right of ownership, and in the exercise of police power, a State
may regulate the taking of wild animals within its borders, their
subsequent use, and the property rights that may be acquired in
them. P. 549.
2. The question whether a state law interferes with or burdens interstate commerce, is determined here with regard to the substance of
the law; its form, or its characterization by the state legislature or
courts, ,do not necessarily control. P. 550.
3. In the exertion of its police power to protect wild animals for the
common benefit, a State may require payment of a tax upon their
skins or hides as a condition precedent to transfer of its title to
the dealer paying the tax. Id.
4. The fact that such skins or hides are intended to be shipped out
of the State without preliminary manufacture does not prevent
their taxation by the State while in the hands of dealers and before
they move in interstate commerce. P. 551. Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 517.
5. Nor does the fact that the law, for certainty of execution, taxes
the hides or skins in the hands of the dealer who ships them out
74308--24--, 35

