CLALLAM COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
334

341

Syllabus.

any case in which the constitution or law of a State is
claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States.
It is manifest that the present case falls within none of
the enumerated cases whether the regulations of the
Associations be regarded as an exercise of the power which,
it is contended, Congress alone possesses; or which has
been conferred upon the Shipping Commission, or be regarded as violations of the Anti-Trust Law.
If, however, appellant received a justiciable injury from
the regulations which the judgment of the District Court
did not recognize, review of that action must be through
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and,
therefore, in compliance with § 238(a) of the Judicial
Code 1 (42 Stat. 837), the case must be transferred to that
court.
So ordered.
CLALLAM COUNTY, WASHINGTON, ET AL. v.
UNITED STATES AND UNITED STATES SPRUCE.
PRODUCTION CORPORATION.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COTRT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 255.

Argued November 15, 1923.-Decided November 26, 1923.

1. A suit by the United States and its corporate instrumentality
against a county and its taxing officers, to avoid state and county
taxation of property held by the corporation, upon the ground of
"If an appeal or writ of error has been or shall be taken to, or
issued out of, any circuit court of appeals in a case wherein stich
appeal or writ of error should have been taken to or issued out of the
Supreme Court; or if an appeal or writ of error has been or shall
be taken to, or issued out of, the Supreme Court in a case wherein
such appeal or writ of error should have been taken to, or issued out
of, a circuit court of appeals, such appeal or writ of error shall not
for such reason be dismissed, but shall be transferred to the proper
court, . . ."

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

-its immunity under the Constitution, is a-suit arising under the

Constitution, and within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
Jud. Code, § 24. P. 344.
2. A State. cannot tax the property of a liquidating corporation
which; though formed under her laws, was brought into existence
and operated by the United States purely as an instrument of
war, whose property was furnished, whose stock and bonds are
held, and whose assets realized from th6 liquidation will be taken
over, by the United States alone. P. 344. Thbmsom
v. Pacific
Railroad, 9 Wall. 579, distinguished.

QUEsmoNs propounded by the Circuit Court of Appeals
in a suit brought by the United States and the Spruce
Production Corporation to set aside taxes on property
held by the corporation. The plaintiffs got a decree in
the District Court. 283 Fed. 645.
Mr. Thomas F. Trumbull and Mr. John D. Fletcher,'
with whom Mr.Overton G. Ellis, Mr. Robert E. Evans,
Mr.. William B. Ritchie, Mr. F. L. Plummer, Mr. John M.
Wilson and Mr. S. Warburton were on the brief, for
Clallam County et al.
Mr.- Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. George
loss Hull, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the United States et al.
MR. JUSTIGM HOLM..s delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes here upon a certificate from theCircuit
CouA bf 'Appeals.. The suit was brought against the
appellart, Clallam County, incorporated by the State of
Washingl~. and its taxing officers, for a decree " cancelling ", as'it is put in the certificate, the taxes levied by
the County and State for the years 1919, 1920 and '1921,
upon larld and other physical property to which the
United States Spruce Production Corporation then had
'the, legal title. 283 Fed. 645. The questions certified
are'(1) whether the -District'Court of the United States

CLALLAM COUNTY v. UNITED STATES.
341

343

Opinion of the Court.

had jurisdiction of this suit, and (2) whether the property
held by the Spruce Production Corporation is subject to
state taxation upon facts the statement of which may be
abridged as follows.
The Act of July 9, 1918, c. 143, ch. xvi, § 1; 40 Stat.
845, 888, authorized the Director of Aircraft Production
to form one or more corporations under the laws of any
State for the purchase, production, manufacture and sale
of aircraft, or equipment or materials therefor, and to own
and operate railroads in connection therewith, whenever
in his judgment it would facilitate the production of aircraft, &c., for the United States and Goyernments allied
with it "in the prosecution of the present war." By' § 3
within one year from the signing of a treaty of peace with
Germany proceedings were to be begun for the dissolution
of the corporation so formed. In August, 1918, this corporation was organized under the laws of Washington.
The stock except seven shares for the trustees of the
corporation was subscribed for by the United States and
those shares were controlled by the United States and all
property and dividends accruing from them were assigned
to the United States. The United States -conveyed to the'
corporation the lands and property now sought to be taxed
and a partially performed contract- uider which these
lands were to be acquired and a sawmill and logging railroad were to be built. The corporation issued bonds that
were all taken by the United States for cash or in payment
for the property conveyed to the company. It proceeded
to complete the railroad and mill and to get materials for
aircraft for the use cf- the United States in the war and
its activities "were wholly directed to the government's
program of production of aeroplane lumber." After the
armistice these activities have been directed to liquidating
the corporation's affairs, although to accomplishi it some
further contracts have been made, but, as we understand,
solely for that end. -The regulations of the Chief of Air

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Service appointed under the National Defense Act provide for administrative supervision of the liquidation
under the Secretary of War.
In short the Spruce Production Corporation was organized by the'United States as an instrumentality for carrying on the war, all its property was conveyed to it by or
bought with money coming from the United States and
was used by it solely as means to that end, and when the
war wis over it stopped its work except so far as it found
it necessary to go on in order to wind up its affairs. When
the winding up is accomplished there will be a loss, but
whatever assets may be realized will go to the United
States. Upon these facts immunity is claimed from taxation by a State.
The immunity is claimed under the Constitution of the
United States. It is true that no specific words forbid the
tax, but the prohibition established by McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, was established on the ground
that the power to tax assumed by the State was in its
nature "repugnant to the constitutional laws of the
Union" and therefore was one that under the Constitution the State could not use. 4 Wheat. 425, 426, 430.
The immunity is derived from the Constitution in the
same sense and upon the same principle that it would be
if expressed in so many words. Therefore this suit arises
under the Constitution and the District Court had jurisdiction of the case. Judicial Code, March 3, 1911, c. 231,
§ 24. The first question must be answered, Yes.
The State claims the right to tax on the ground that
taxation of the agency may be taxation of the means employed by the government and invalid upon admitted
grounds, but that taxation of the property bf the agent is
not taxation of the means. We agree that. it "isnot always, or generally, taxation of the means," as said by
Chief Justice Chase in Thomson v. Pacific Railroad, 9
Wall. 579, 591. But it may be, and in our opinion clearly

BROSNAN v. BROSNAN.
341

Syllabus.

is when as here not only the agent was created but all the
agent's property was acquired and used, for the sole purpose of producing a weapon for the war. This is not like
the case of a corporation having its own purposes as well
as those of the United States and interested in' profit on
its own account. The incorporation and formal erection
of a new personality was only for the convenience of the
United States to cirry out its ends. It is unnecessary to
consider whether the fact that the United States owned all
the stodk and furnished all the property to the corporation
taken by itself would be enough to bring the case within
the policy of the rule that exempts property of the United
Stats. Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U.- S. 151. It
may be that if the United States saw fit to avail itself
of machinery furnished by the State it would not escape
the tax on that ground alone. But when we add the
facts that we have recited we think it too plain for further argument that the tax could not be imposed. See
United States Spruce Production Corporationv. Lincoln
County, 285 Fed. 388; United States v. Coghlan, 261
Fed. 425; King County v. United States Shipping Board
Emergency Fleet Corporation,282 Fed. 950. We answer
the second question, No.
Question 1. Answer, Yes.
Question 2. Answer, No.

BROSNAN, JR., ET AL. v. BROSNAN.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 56. Argued October 8, 1923.-Decided November 26, 1923.
In the District of Columbia, under a caveat to a will, whether filed
before or after the will has been admitted to probate, the burden
of proof on the issue whether the testator at the time of executing
the will was of sound and disposing mind and capable of executing
a valid deed or contract, is upon the caveator. P. 347.

