HIGHTOWER v. AMER. NATL. BANK.
350

351

Syllabu.

opinion heretofore announced or the decree entered
thereon.
Decree reaffirmed.
The CHIEF Justice did not participate in the consideration of the cases on the rehearing.
MRR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JuSTIcE MCREYwOLIis and
MR.'JUSTICE BRANDEIS dissent, for the reasons given in
their dissenting opinions at the last term.
HIGHTOWER ET AL. v. AMERICAN NATIONAL
BANK, OF MACON, GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF- APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 25.

Argued January 25, 1923.-Decided December 3, 1923.

1. A contract between two national banks under which the assets
of the one were transferred to the other and the latter assumed
the liabilities of the former and advanced money, in excess of the
assets, to pay the liabilities and expenses, construed as intending,
not a sale, but a pledge of the assets, as security for repayment of
the money advanced. Pp. 353, 358.
2. Where a national bank, in financial difficulty, but still in active
operation and not thought to be insolvent, to protect the interests
of its creditors and shareholders inde.a contract by authority of.
its directors with another nationil bank, whereby the second bank
assumed the liabilities of the first, toQk over its assets as security,
and paid the debts by means of the assets and its own funds, acting
finally as liquidating agent after the shareholders of the first bank
had ratified the contract and ordered liquidation under Rev. Stats.,
§ 5220,--held, that the contract was valid; and that the claim of
the second bank for money advanced in excess of the assets "was
not created during the liquidation but was .a debt arising under
the contract for which the shareholders of "the liquidated bank
were liable under Rev. Stats., § 5151, as amended. P. 360.
276 Fed. 371, affirmed.

APPEAL from a.decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which afrmed a decree of the District 'Court awarding

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

recoveries to the appellee bank, as plaintiff, in its suit to
enforce the liabilities of the defendants (here appellants)
as shareholders of another national bank.
Mr. John E. Hall, with whom Mr-Charles L. Bartlett,
Mr. Charles Akerman, Mr. Richard C. Jordan, Mr.
Thomas E. Ryals, Mr. Robert L. Anderson, Mr. Warren
Grice, Mr. Charles J. Bloch and Mr. A. 0. B. Sparks were
on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Orville A. Park, with whom Mr. George S. Jones
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR.JusqTicE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a suit in equity, in the nature of a creditor's
bill, against a national bank and its shareholders to enforce the liability of the shareholders for the bank's debts.
The plaintiff is another national bank and sues on behalf
of all creditors, although insisting it is the only one. The
District Court dismissed the bill as not stating a cause
of action, 246 Fed. 721, and 248 Fed. 187; but the Circuit
Court of Appeals thought the bill good and reversed that
decree. 254 Fed. 249. The defendants answered; the
evidence was taken before a master and reported with
advisory findings, and a decree was entered by the District Court establishing the plaintiff's claim as a debtthe only unsettled obligation-of the defendant bank,
and awardfng recoveries from the several shareholders in
sums' conforming to theii holdings. That decree was
affirmed by. the Circuit Court of Appeals, 276 Fed. 371,
and the defendants appealed to this Court.
The record is a large one and shows that the parties
brought out everything of an evidential charaotei- bearing on the issues. On all questions of fact th6 master and
the two courts below were in full accord, and there was
ample evidence to sustain their findings.

HIGHTOWER v. AMER. NATL. BANK.
351

353

Opinion of the Court.

Both banks were located at Macon, Georgia, the plaintiff being' known as the American National and the other
as the Commercial National. In the summer of 1914
they entered into a contract looking to a winding up of
the affairs of the Commercial National, and providing
for a transfer of its assets to the American National and
the assumption and payment of its liabilities by the
latter. When the suit was brought all that was to be
done under the contract was practically completed, save
that the obligation, if there was such, to reimburse the
American National for advancing moneys to pay the
Commercial National's liabilities had not been fulfilled.
The questions 'presented to Us for decision turn-largely
on the construotion and legal effect of the ctntract and
are, first, whether the transfer of the Commercial National's assets was made by way of an outright sale, or by
way of giving security for the repayment of the moneys
advanced by the American National under the contract,
and, secondly, if repayment was required, whether that
is a debt or engagement for which the Commercial National's shareholders are liable.
The statutes in connection with which the contract and
these questions must be examined are as follows:
"The shareholders of every national banking association shall be held individually responsible, equally and
ratably, and not one for another, for all contracts, debts,
and engagements of such association, to the extent of the
amount of their stock therein, at the par value thereof,
in addition to the amount invested in such shares." Rev.
Stats., § 5151; Act December 23, 1913, c. 6, § 23, 38
Stat. 273.
"Any [national banking] association may go into
liquidation and be closed by the vote of its shareholders
owning two-thirds of its stock." Rev. Stats., § 5220.
"When any national banking association shall have
gone into liquidation .under the provisions of section five
74308°-24-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

thousand two hundred and twenty of said statutes, the
individual*liability of the shareholders provided ,for by
section fifty-one hundred and fifty-one of said statutes,
may be enforced by any creditor of such association, by
bill in equity, in the nature of a creditor's bill,". etc. Act
June 30, 1876, c. 156, § 2, 19 Stat. 63.
The contract was made in pursuance of .resolutions
passed by the directors of both banks, and was ratified
and approved by h resolution of the Commercial National's shareholders. These resolutions and the contract
are all set forth at length in the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals delivered on the first appeal to that
court, 254 Fed. 249, and. need not be reproduced here.
The primary purpose in what was done was to relieve
the Commercial National from an existing embarrassment, to conserve its assets and to subserve the interests
of its creditors and stockholders. That bank, although
having assets thought at the time to be in excess of its
liabilities, was in need of very substantial assistance. It
had made excessive and improvident loans, had borrowed
beyond an admissible limit, had permitted its available
cash to fall below a reasonable minimum, had been criticised by the Comptroller for these departures, had become the subject of disturbing rumors and was not in
condition to withstand a run by depositors. It had
sought assistance from the American National, and the
latter had-manifested a disposition to help within prudent
limits., Various courses had been informally suggested
without receiving definite approval, aImong them' being
a voluntary liquidation of the Commercial Nation9f under
the statute before cited, a consolidation of the two banks,
an outright sale of the Commercial National's assets to
the American National at an agreed or fixed valuation,
. and a transfer of the assets, or a large part of them, to
the American National 'as collateral to secure repayment
to it of moneys to be advanced by it to meet the Con-

HIGHTOWER v. AMER. NATL. BANK.
351

355

Opinion of the Court.

mercial National's needs. All of these proceeded on the
theory that the depositors and other creditors of that
bank should be paid as and when.payment was demanded;
that m.ney iii large amounts would be required for the
purpose, and that the money should be provided or obtained in a way which would permit an orderly and advantageous realization on the Commercial National's
assets and not involve any sacrifice of their real value.
The resolution of the directors of the Comnmercial National, as also that of the directors of the American National, was passed August 1, 1914; the contract was
signed August 11, and the ratifying resolution of the
Commercial National's shareholders was passed September 30.
The resolution of the Commercial National's directors
left the questions of voluntary liquidation and consolidation to the consideration and action of the shareholders,
but expressly authorized the bank's officers to transfer
all of its assets to the American National "a cash,"
(meaning at an agreed or fixed cash valuation) or "as
collateral" to secure that bank for moneys "advanced"
to pay liabilities of the Commercial National, "the details " being committed "to the discretion" of such officers and they being empowered to enter into any necessary or appropriate contract. The resolution of ,the
'American National's directors said nothing.about consolidation and only incidentally referred tovoluntary liquidation, but'expressly assented to the assumption and
payment by that bank of the liabilities of, the Coinmercial
National "upon condition" that the latter, transfer to
the American National "as cash or collateral" sufficient
assets to afford it full and satisfactory protection. This
resolution, like the other, committed the adjustment of
details to the discretion of the bank's officers.
Immediately following the adoption of these directors'
resolutions the Commercial National's assets were deliv-

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of.the Court.

263 U. S.

ered into the custody or keeping of the American National, but were not delivered "as cash" or at an agreed
or fixed valuation. Thereupon, and on the faith of such
delivery, the American National began advancing moneys
with which to pay depositors and other creditors of the
Commercial National.
The contract, signed ten days later, recites the substance of the directors" resolutions, but refers to them
as authorizing a transfer of the assets "as security", instead of "as cash or security." It further recites that
"the assets of the Commercial National have been delivered to the American National" and then in six numbered paragraphs proceeds to staie the terms and details of the engagement. The first paragraph purports
to transfer all the assets in present terms, contains no
qualifying words, and, when taken alone, appears to pass
the title absolutely and without reservation. The second and third paragraphs declare that the officers and
directors of the Commercial National will call a meeting
of its shareholders and procure from them resolutions
(a) providing for the liquidation of that bank under the
statute, (b) authorizing the consolidation of the two,
banks "by the purchase of the assets of the Commercial
National by the American National," but without the
issue of stock in the latter to the shareholders of the
former, (c) ratifying and confirming the action' of the
.Commercial National's directors before recited and "this
contract," and (d) designating the American National as
liquidating agent to conduct the liquidation of the Commercial National according to the statute and under the
supervision of the Commercial National's directors. The
fourth paragraph provides that the Commercial National
shall maintain its corporate existence until the completion of its liquidation. The fifth paragraph declares without qualification that the American National assumes and
promises to pay, as and when payment is demanded, all

HIGHTOWER v. AMER. NATL. BANK.
351

357

Opinion of the Court.

the liabilities of the Commercial National, including the
redemption of its circulating notes. The sixth paragraph,
which obviously is explanatory of 'some ofthe others, particularly of the first and fifth, reads as follows:
"VI. That said American National Bank will accept
the appointment as liquidating agent of said Commercial
National Bank, and will proceed with all due and reasonable diligence. to liquidate said association and to collect and reduce to cash all the assets of said association,
all of said assets to be held as security by said American
National Bank for all advances made by it in paying
the depositors and other liabilities of said Commercial
National Bank aiid the actual expenses incurred by said
American National Bank in realizing on said assets; and
that after deducting from the proceeds of said assets the
actual expenses incurred by said American National Bank
in liquidating said association and acting as liquidating
agent and in-collecting said assets and realizing upon the
same, it will apply said proceeds, first, in repaying to
itself all armounts advaiced by it hereunder, withinterest
thereon at the rate of seven (7%) per cent. per annum;
next, in discharging the liabilities of said Commercial
National Bank which shall not have been paid by advances made by said American National Bank; and that
when all of said liabilities have been fully discharged it
will account to the shareholders of said Commercial. National Bank. and frori time to time pay over to said
shareholders pro rata the surplus remaining in its hands
from the proceeds of said assets; said American National
Bank to act as such liquidating agent without compensation for its own services.
"It being distinctly agreed and understood that in the
event the said liquidation should be interrupted or discontinuied for any reason beyond the control of said
American National Bank, then and in that event said
American National Bink shall and does hold all of the

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opimon of the Court.

263 U. S.

assets of said Commercial National Bank as security for
the advances which may have been made by it, up to
the time such liquidation may be so discontinued.
"And it being further distinctly agreed and understood
that neither the resolutions of said boards of directors
of said associations nor this contract shall relieve the
shareholders of the Commercial National Bank from their
legal liability as shareholders to respond, inthe event it
may be necessary to have recourse upon such shareholders' liability, for any deficit which may remain after
exhausting the other assets of said association in the payment of its liabilities."
The appellants lay some emphasis on what is said in
the second and third paragraphs about procuring from
the shareholders a resolution authorizing a consolidation
of the two banks by one purchasing the assets of the
other. But we think it is of no importance here. In itself
it could have n-o force save as a solicitation of action by
the shareholders. They did not respond to it. No such
resolution was adopted, and the tentative proposal failed.
The reason is apparent. The shareholders' meeting was
had fifty days after the contract was signed. In the
meantime the Commercial National's affairs had been
subjected to close examination and found to be such that
a consolidation wag not at all feasible. At that meeting,
however, the shareholders did, by a: vote representing
two-thirds of all the shares, ratify and confirm the contract, put the bank into voluntary liquidation under the
statute, designate the American National as liquidating
agent and appoint a committee of five shareholders to
advise ivith and assist the liquidating agent and directors
throughout the course of the liquidation.
The chief contention of the appellants is that the transaction between the -two banks was not a pledging or
hypothecation *of the assets as security for the repayment
of advances to pay liabilities, but an outright sale of the

351

HIGHTOWER v. AMER. NATL.' BANK.

359

Opinion of the Court.

-

assets in consideration of an unqualified assumption of
the liabilities. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals in thinking the assets were not sold but pledged
as security.
It is quite true that the first and fifth paragraphs of
the contr£Cct, if separated from the others, make for the
view that the transfer of assets and the assumption of
liabilities were without qualification or reservation,--each
as the full consideration for the other. But the contract
consists of'much more than those paragraphs and must
be examined as a whole to determine the nature of the
transaction of which it is a memorial. In the sixth paragraph the parties definitely explain the purpose with
which the assets were transferred and the nature of the
engagement by which payment of the liabilities was assumed. That paragraph cannot be disregarded. To do
so would be much like determining the nature and effect
of a mortgage deed without considering the aefeasance
clause. The paragraph shows that the American National was to hold the assets "as security" for "all advances" made by it to pay liabilities and expenses; that
it was to reduce the assets to cash with reasonable diligence and apply the proceeds in "repaying" "all amounts
advanced" by it "with interest" added, and that if, for any
reason beyond its control, the liquidation 'should be.
discontinued, it should hold the assets "as security" for
its "advances" up to that time. The paragraph also
recognizes that in the end there might be either a surplus
or deficiency of proceeds from the assets, and deals with
both contingencies,-with a possible surplus by directing
that the same be paid to the Commercial National's
shareholders pro rata, and with 'a possible deficiency by
declaring that neither the directors' resolutions nor the
contract " shall relieve the shareholders "from their" legal
liability as shareholders to respond." Therational and
necessary conclusion from these 'provisions is that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

moneys advanced were loaned and were to be repaid with
interest, that the assets were transferred as security f(,.
such repayment and that the resulting relations between
the banks were those of debtor and creditor and pledgor
and pledgee.
The- Circuit Court of Appeals fortified its conclusion
in this regard by showing that throughout the period in
which the contract was in -process of execution the officers
of the two banks, their directors and the shareholders'
committee.of the Commercial National put a like construction on it. We agree that this is so, but extended
comment on -that course of action would serve no purpose,
because, in our opinion, the contract as a whole does not
admit of any other construction.
The remaining coniention-is that the debt sought to be
enforced was created during the process of liquidation,
and therefore is not one for which the shareholders are
liable. The premise is faulty. The debt arose from the
contract and represents moneys advanced in excess of
what was realized from tfie assets. When the contract
was made the bank was in active operation, and it remained' so for a short period thereafter. It was cashing
checks, receiving deposits, clearing checks through the
clearifig h6use, checking on its deposits in other banks and
otherwise conducting-a banking business. True, its business was conducted in quarters assigned tb it in the banking house of. the American National, but it was acting
through its own officers, tellers and employees. It had
not been pronounced insolvent, nor was it then thought
to be so. The process of liquidation under- the statute
began fifty days after the contract was made. There was
power to make" the contract. The purpose was not to
obtain moneyt to engage in new business, but simply to
change frommany creditors to one. Nor was the contract
'made in derogation of the rights of the shareholders. One
of its purposes was to subserve their' interests, and this

KING COUNTY v. SEATTLE SCHOOL DIST.
351

361

Sylabus.

was recognized when they ratified and confirmed it.
Under prior decisions the contention must fail. Wyman
v. Wallace, 201 U. S. 230; Poppleton v. Wallace, 201
U. S. 245.
The amount of the debt is not questioned.
Decree affirmed.
KING COUNTY, WASHINGTON, v. SEATTLE
SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT .OF APPEALS. FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
.No. 30.

Argued April 13, 1923-Decided December 3, 1923.

1. A suit is within the jurisdiction of the District Court as a controversy arising'under the laws of the United 'States, Jud. Code,
§ 24, where the right- and title set up by the plaintiff depend
upon the construction of an act of Congress: P. 363.
2. The Act of Congress of May 23, 1908, directing that 25% of all
money received from each forest reserve shall be paid to the State
in which the reserve is situated, "to be extended as the State
...
legislature may prescribe for the benefit of the public
schools and public roads of the county or counties in which the
forest reserve is situated," does- not create a trust, but results in
a sacred obligation imposed on the public faith of the donee State.
P. 364.
3. The act does not prescribe how the moneys shall be divided as
between the two purposes named, but leaves this to the State. Id.
4. Where a state law authorizes and directs county commissioners
to expend the moneys received by their county, 'under te above
act of Congress, for the benefit of the public schools and public
roads thereof, a school district has no standing to call a county to
account when more of the funds are used for the one than for the
other purpose, since equal division between the two is not contemplated or required by the act, and the rule that a grant to
several, without specification of interests, conveys equal interests,
does not apply. P. 365.
278 Fed. 46, reversed.

APPEAL from a decision of the Circuit Ceurt of Appeals'
which affirmed a decree of the District Court in favor of

