OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

263 U. S.

MYERS ET AL., COPARTNERS AS S. A. & H.
MYERS, v. INTERNATIONAL TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT, COUNTY OF SUFFOLK,
COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 89.

Argued October 18, 1923.--Decided November 12, 1923.

A judgment in bankruptcy confirming a composition over a creditor's
objection based on the allegation that the bankrupts had obtained
credit by a false statement of their financial condition, is not res
judicata as to the creditor's cause of action against the bankrupts
for the same alleged deceit; but estops the creditor as to the issue
of falsity where this was not only raised, but actually decided
against him, in the bankruptcy proceedings. Cromwell v. Sac
County, 94 U. S. 351; Friend v., Talcott, 228 U. S. 27. P. 70.
241 Mass. 509, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Superior Court of Massachusetts, entered on a rescript from the Supreme
Judicial Court, and enforcing a verdict, recovered by the
present respondent, in a suit against the petitioners for
damages for deceit.
Mr. Edward F. MiClennen for petitioners.
Mr. John R. Lazenby for respondent.
I. The right of the bank to maintain an action for
deceit and misrepresentation was not a provable claim
in bankruptcy and hence was not discharged by the confirmation of the composition.
When the International Trust Company made the advances, it had two separate and distinct causes of action:
(a) an action of contract founded upon the c9ntract-ial
obligations created by the notes, and (b) an action of
tort founded upon the deceit of the Myers in inducing
the bank to pay money upon misrepresentations intentionally made.

MYERS v. INTERNATIONAL CO.
64

Argument for Respondent.

The Bankruptcy Act recognizes these two distinct
causes of action aiid discharges the debtor from his liability on the contract and denies him the discharge from
liability for deceit.
Section 14c provides that the confirmation of a composition discharges debts other than those not affected by
a discharge.
Section 14b requires the discharge of-the debtor unless
he has ". . . (3) obtained property on -credit from
any person upon a materially false statement in writing
made to such person for the purpose of obtaining such
property on credit."
Section 17, as amended by Act February 5, 1903, c. 487,
§ 5, and Act March 2, 1917, c. 153, provides that a discharge releases a bankrupt from his provable debts except
such as "
(2) are liabilities for obtaining property by false pretenses or false representations
.
Section 63 defines "provable debts," and the definition
does not include actions of tort for false representations.
The meaning of the word "false" as used in these
sections of the Bankruptcy Act is that the statement
must be not only untrue,, but also untrue with an intention to deceive.
No question is raised as to the instruction to the jury
by the trial court defining the word" false."
The Bank proved its claim on the notes in thebankruptcy proceedings. It did not prove its right to recover
in tort for deceit and misrepresentation. Such a claim
is not provable. Schall v. Camors, 251 U. S. 239; Talcott
v. Friend, 179 Fed. 676; 228 U. S. 27.
The fact that the Trust Company proved its claim on
the contracts, the notes, does not affect this right to
maintain this action of fraud. Standard Sewing Machine
Co. v. Kattell, 132 App. Div. 539; In re Menzin, 238 Fed.
773; Zimmerm v. Blount, 238 Fed. 740; In re Groodzinsky,
74308o-2--5

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

263 U. S.

248 Fed. 753; Forsyth v. Ve4meyer, 177 U. S. 177; Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S. 176; Frey v. Torrey, 70 App. Div.
166; 175 N. Y. 501.
The debt is expressly excepted from the operation of
the discharge by § 17 (2).
The present .case is not one where the plaintiff may
treat his cause of action as one in assumpsit, electing
whether he will treat the fraud as a quasi-contract and
waive the fraud, but it is one where there are two separate
and distinct rights which give rise to separate and distinct causes of action. Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S. 176;
Tindle v. Birkett, 205 U. S. 183. Kreitlein v. Ferger,238
U. S. 21, distinguished.
II. The decision of the United States District Court in
,bankruptcy confirming the composition was not res judicata upon the question of fraud.
Section 12d of the Bankruptcy Act requires the confirmation of a composition, provided the alleged bankrupt has not been guilty of any acts which will bar a discharge, and § 14b (3) refuses the discharge if the bankrupt has obtained money or property on credit upon a
materially false statement in writing made to "any person" for the purpose of obtaining credit.
Any creditor may object to the confirmation of the
composition irrespective of whether the false statement
was made to him or to another creditor. In re Miller,
192 Fed. 730; Talcott v. Friend, 179 Fed. 676; In re
Kretz, 212 Fed. 784.
The jury has found that the statement was intentionally false within the definition of the federal cases construing the Bankruptcy Act.
The petitioners have argued that the Bank had the
option of remaining silent in the bankruptcy court as to
the fraud and later avoiding the effect of the discharge
by showing that the petitioners' liability was for obtaining property by false representations, or of trying out

MYERS v. INTERNATIONAL CO.
64

Argument for Respondent.

the issue of fraud in objecting to the discharge in the
bankruptcy court.
This argufitent is clearly unsound ana results from
confusing the nature of the Bank's rights. It assumes
that the Bank had only one claim and that the assertion
of that claim in the bankruptcy court eliminated the
right to maintain an action for fraud after the granting
of the discharge. Further, it assumes that the Bank had
the right to avoid the discharge in a subsequent suit on
the notes, on the ground that it was a provable debt and
a liability for obtaining property by false pretenses under
§ 17 (2). The Bank, as stated before, had two rightscontract on the notes and tort for- fraud. The first was
provable. The second was not. If the Bank had merely
the one right which allowed it to go into the bankruptcy
court, it had a provable claim which was followed by the
discharge, but under the statute the bankruptcy court
never had and could not have before it the claim founded
on the tort.
Further, the damages in the tort action could not be
determined until the loss suffered by reason of the tort
was fixed by the dividend received in the bankruptcy
proceedings.
There was no such election and -waiver as the petitioners argue. Friend v. Talcott, 228 U. S. 27, 37, 38.
Neither is it a case of one wrong with an election of
remedies. United States v. Oregon Lumber Co., 260
U. S. 290.
In the present case the proving of the notes was the
affirmation of the contract and the bringing of suit in tort
was a second affirmation and seeking damages for the injury caused by reason of the fraud. The right to object
to the discharge arose out of the right to prove the notes
and was entirely incidental thereto.
Nor can the doctrine of estoppel have any application.
The parties in the bankruptcy proceedings are not the
same as the parties in this suit. It was the bankrupt

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

estate against the bankrupt and not one individual creditor against the bankrupt. Troxell v. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 434; Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Newport, 247 U. S. 464. Bates v.
Bodie, 245 U. S. 520, distinguished.
The question at issue is not the same. The sole question in the bankruptcy proceedings was whether the
debtor should be discharged from his provable debts, not
whether any particular debt was discharged.
The Bankruptcy Act itself brings the two rights out
clearly. Section 14b(3) requires that the false statement
shall be in writing, but § 17a provides that a discharge
shall not release the bankrupt from liability for obtaining
money by false representations even though the statement is not in writing.
Friend v. Talcott, 228 U. S. 27, is decisive. The facts
are almost identical with the facts in the present case. In
re Menzin, 238 Fed. 773; Pell v. McCabe, 256 Fed. 512;
In re Groodzinsky, 248 Fed. 753; Corpus Juris, Bankruptcy, p. 400; Collier, Bankruptcy, 1921 ed., p. 406;
Remington, Bankruptcy, 2d ed., p. 2493, § 27503/4; Foster,
Federal Practice, 5th ed., vol. II, pp. 2254, 2256.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcu TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was begun in the Superior Court of Massachusetts by the International Trust Company, a bank,
against Samuel A. and Harry Myers, brothers and partners, for damages for deceit in that the defendants had
obtained credit from the Trust Company by a false statement of their financial condition. The ation resulted
in a verdict for $14,304.49. The amended answer of the
defendants pleaded res judicata in the cause by a decree
of the United States District Court for Massachusetts in
bankruptcy, and on the trial the defendants dffered the
record therein as evidence of an estoppel by judgment

MYERS v. INTERNATIONAL CO.
64

Opinion of the' Court.

against the plaintiff as to the fact of falsity. The trial
court excluded the record. The case was taken by bill of
exceptions to the Siipreme Judicial Court, which overruled the exceptions and sent down the rescript and pursuant thereto final judgment was entered on the verdict.
The Massachusetts courts held that the bankruptcy proceedings neither were res judicata as to the cause nor
estopped the plaintiff as to the fact of falsity. The case
here turns on the effect of the bankruptcy record, and so
presents the federal question whether full faith and credit
was given to the judgment of a federal court. Radford
v. Myers, 231 U.;S. 725, *730; National Foundry & Pipe
Works v. Oconto Water Supply Co., 183 U. S. 216, 233.
In January, 1917, an involuntary petition in bankruptcy was filed against the Myers brothers. They made
an offer of composition. A majoritk of the creditors accepted the offer.. The Referee recommended that it be
confirmed. The Myers brothers applied for confirmation. The International Trust Company entered its appearance as a creditor and opposed the confirmation on
the ground, among others, that the Myers brothers had
obtained loans from the Trust Company by the statement
made in writing on the first day of January, 1916, that
the accounts receivable amounted to $58,425.06; that the
statement was materially false and was made for the purpose of obtaining certain aforesaid sums on credit "said
falsity being' that the alleged bankrupts concealed and
omitted to set forth in sid statement the fact that of the
said accounts receivable a certain portion in the neighborhood of $20,900, the exact sum being unknown to your
petitioner, had been assigned and set over to the Commercial Investment Trust, and, further,. thht the accounts
receivable, as set forth in said statement,' did not amount
to the sum of $58,425.06". "The Referee to whom the
objections were referred reported that Myers brothers had
made the statement and the Trust Company bqd relied on

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Qpinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

it in making them loans, but that -when it was made it
was a true statement and correctly set forth the financial
condition of the bankrupts on January 1, 1916, as shown
by their books kept according to the custom of the bankrupts at that time by an experienced and competent
bookkeeper, and he found no evidence that the bankrupts or eithei of them falsely or purposely concealed or
omitted to set forth in said statement the amount of the
accounts assigned to the Commercial Investment Company and that the objection could not be sustained.
The District Judge (245 Fed. 110) confirmed the finding
of the Referee. The International Trust Company carried this ruling on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit, and that court (245 Fed. 110, 112)
affirmed the -order confirming the composition.
The declaration of the Trust Company in this action
for deceit has put the case on the falsity of the same statement of January 1, 1916.
The general principles which must govern here are laid
down in an oftquoted opinion of Mr. Justice Field in
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351. In that case suit
had been brought upon coupons attached to bonds issued
by the county for the erection of a school house, and it
was adjudged that the bonds and coupons were invalid
in the hands of one not a boiea fide holder for value before
maturity, and as the plaintiff had not shown himself to
be such a holder, he could not recover. In a second suit
on other coupons from the same bond, he proved that
he was a holder for value before maturity and the coilnty
sought to defeat the second suit by pleading the judgment
in he first as res judicata. It was held that the cause
was different and that the first judgment was not a bar.
Mr. Justice Field said (pp. 352, 353):
"In considering the operation of this judgment, it
should be borne in mind, as stated by counsel, that there
is a difference between the effect of a judgment as a bar

MYERS v. INTERNATIONAL CO.
64

Opinion of the Court.

or estoppel against the prosecution of a second action
upon the same claim or demand, and its effect as an
estoppel in another action between the same patties upon
a different claim or cause of action. In the former case,
the judgment, if rendered upon the merits, constitutes an
absolute bar to a subsequent action. It is a finality as
to the claim or demand in controversy, concluding parties
and those in privity with them, not only as to every
matter which was offered and received to sustain or defeat the claim or demand, but as to any other admissible
matter which might have been offered for that purpose ....
"But where the second action between the same parties
is upon a different claim or demand, the judgment in the
prior action operates as an estoppel only as to those matters in issue or points controverted, upon the determination of which the-finding or verdict was rendered. In all
cases, therefore, where it is sought to apply the estoppel
of a judgment rendered upon one cause of action to matters arising in a suit upon a different cause of action, the
inquiry uimst
always be as to the point or question actually litigated and determined in the original action, not
what might have been thus litigated and determined.
Only upon such matters is the Judgxaent conclusive in
another action". See also Southern Pacific R. R. Co. v.
United States, 168 U. S. 1, 50; Troxeli v. Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 434, 440.
Coming now to apply these principles to .the case before us, it is very clear that the opposition to the composition in the bankruptcy court was not the same cause of
action as the suit for deceit here. That is settled by the
decision of this Court in Friend v. Talcott, 228 U. S. 27,
in a case involving similar facts, to be more fully stated.
The defense of res judicata as to the cause was therefore
n6t established by the judgment confirmina the composition.

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

Counsel for the petitioners, however, urges that in spite
of this the bankruptcy record was admissible in evidence.
What he contends is that the essential fact found as
between the petitioners and respondent in the bankruptcy proceedings and the confirmation of the composition was the truth of, and lack of falsity in, the statement of January 1, 1916, that in the trial of this action
for deceit the burden of the Trust Company was to prove
the falsity of the statement or fail, and that the Myers
brothers were entitled to introduce as evidence conclusively rebutting the Trust Company's evidence of such
falsity, the record of the bankruptcy proceedings showiMg that the question of such falsity in the statement
had-been adjudged against the Trust Company and in
favor of the Myers brothers in a cause to which both
were parties and in which the fict of falsity was a relevant and indispensable issue.
In the bankruptcy proceedings after the bankrupts'
application was made to confirm the composition, the
International Trust Company entered its appearance and
filed its specification as it was required to, do under General Order XXXII before it could 6ppose the confirmation and the consequent discharge of the bankrupts.
Then followed before the Refereje, to whom the issue thus
made was referred, what was equivalent to a hearing in
equity. This was the beginning of a distinct, separate
and new suit. In re Gutlbert, 154 Fed. 676; In re
Amer, 228 Fed. 576. This suit between respondent and
petitioners was decided by the Referee and the two courts
against the respondent and the composition was confirmed because it was found that the statement of January 1, 1916, was true and not false. This is exactly the
same issue which arose in the suit for deceit which is
before us. Recovery of the judgment under consideration air not be sustained except upon the finding that the
statement waa false. The respondent, the Trust Coin-

MYERS v. INTERNATIONAL CO.
64

Opinion of the Court.

pany, can not litigate again that issue in this case, because it is bound by the finding against it in its opposition
to the confirmation of the composition. This follows
necessarily from the rule in the second class of cases laid
down by Mr. Jistice Field in the language already
quoted.
An adjudication of bankruptcy, or of discharge therefrom, is a judgment in rem and is binding on, and res
judicataas to, all the world, only in respect of the status
of the bankrupt, and is not conclusive as to the findings
of fact or subsidiary questions of law on which it is based
except as between parties to the proceedings or privies
thereto. Gratiot State Bank v. Johnson, 249 U. S.246,
248; Manson v. Williams, 213 U. S. 453, 455; In re Henry
Ulfelder Clothing Co., 98 Fed. 409, 413; In re Schick,
2 Ben. 5--Fed. Cases, No. 12,445. Here the International Trust Company was a real party to the-issue
and conducted the litigation. While the creditors whom
it represented on the question of the discharge were only
concluded as to the status of the bankrupt, it was
estopped as between itself and the bankrupts in respect of
the relevant facts determined in the controversy exactly
as if the proceeding in opposition to the composition and
discharge had been an ordinary civil suit by it against
them.
The respondent however contends, and the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts held, that this case iscontrolled upon this point, as well as in respect to general
defense of res judicata;by Friendv. Talcott, 228 U. S.27,
and must be affirmed on the authority of that ease.
That was a case like this in which a creditor, having opposed a composition in bankruptcy, was defeated in his
effort and brought suit in tort for deceit for damages
equal to the balance of his claim after deducting what he
had received on his provab le claim for goods sold. The
deceit alleged in the specification was a false report of

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

financial condition of the bankrupt made to a commercial
agency whose report the opposing creditor relied on. The
bankruptcy court held that these facts thus alleged did
not bring the case within paragraph (3) of § 14b of the
Act of July .1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 550, as amended by
Act of February 5, 1903, c. 487, § 4, 32 Stat. 797, which
provided that "the judge shall hear the application for
a discharge, and such proofs and pleas as may be made
in opposition thereto by parties in interest, at such time
as will give parties- in interest a reasonable opportunity
to be fully heard, and investigate the merits of the application and discharge the applicant unless he has
(3) obtained property on credit from any person upon a
materially false statement in writing made to such person for the purpose of obtaining such property on credit."
It- confirmed the composition. The reasoning of the
bankruptcy court was that paragraph (3) required that
the materially false statement, to be effective to prevent a
discharge, should be made directly to .the creditor or his
representative whom the debtor intended/ to deceive and
that as the specification only showed a statement made to
a commercial agency, it did not aver facts sufficient to
constitute a bar to the composition and the bankrupt's
discharge.
A year later the creditor began his action for deceit.
In addition to the general issue, the defendants and
former bankrupts set up the above judgment as res
judicata. In the District Court the cause was .heard on
this plea of foriher adjudication and the plea was sustained. The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the
defense of res judicatawas not sustained and reversed the
judgment of the District Court.
This Court held that the causes of action were not the
-the same, that the first concerned the general discharge
of all the creditors under one section, and the second the
exception from such general discharge of a particular

MYERS v. INTERNATIONAL CO.
64

Opinion of the Court.

creditor under another section and that the defense of
former adjudication was bad.
Coming then to the question of estoppel by judgment
on the issue of fact as to the deceit, Chief Justice White,
speaking for the Court, used this language:
It .is elaborately argued, however, that whatever be
the infirmity of the decree of confirmation as res judicata
in the complete sense, that decree was necessarily binding
in so far as it established relevant facts which were at
issue between the parties and therefore is here conclusive.
But the proposition rests upon an unfounded assumption,
as nothing' in the assertion of the right to be exempt from
the operation of the discharge here relied upon involves
a traverse or denial of any relevant fact established as a
result of the approval of the composition. On the contrary, as we have seen, the facts here relied upon to establish the exemption from discharge, are the facts which
were conceded to exist and were not traversed for the
purpose of the hearing on the composition."
The Court thus points out that the issue of material
falsity of statement was not an issue of fact in the bankruptcy court, because that court had held that even if-the
fact of falsity as alleged in the specification of opposition were conceded, it did not prevent the confirmation
of the composition and discharge under (3) § 14b of the
Bankruptcy Act, because the statement was not made to
the creditor or his representative, whereas the right of
the creditor to recover in the action in hand was based
on an exception to the discharge-under the 17th section
of the Bankruptcy Act of a liability "for obtaining property by false pretenses or false representations," (Amendment of February 5, 1903, c. 487, § 5, 32 Stat. 798,) without any restriction as to whom the representation should
be made. In other words, the exact point upon which
the suit for deceit depended, to wit, the falsity of the
statement, was not considered and passed on by the bank-

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

ruptcy court. That court without enquiring as to the
truth of the statement held as matter of law that it could
not prevent the composition.
Nordoes that which follows the above quotation help
respondkmts. It had evidently been argued that the view
of the bankruptcy court as to the limitation of (3) § 14b
was erroneous and that the issue of deceit was necessarily
before it and so in the result was decided. This led the
Chief Justice to say (p. 41):
"Conceding for the sake of argument that the iacts
which were alleged as the basis of the opposition to the
approval of the composition were sufficient, had the law
been rightly applied, to have prevented the approval of
the composition, such concession would afford no ground
for holding that because one case in matter of law was
erroneously decided, that such decision should -conclusively establish the duty to erroneously decide another
*and distinct case."
This of course is to be applied to the facts of the case.
The question of law whether the statement had to be made
to the creditor or his representative only, under (3) § 14b
of the Bankruptcy Act, did not arise in the second case
at all for, as said above, that involved only the meaning
of § 17 which had no such'words of limitation. The circumstance that the bankruptcy court may have erroneously declined to decide the question of falsity could not
give its action in avoiding decision of it the same conclusive effect as if it had decided it, in a subsequent action
between.the same parties in which the reason for avoiding
it however erroneous did not exist. The Chief Justice
continued (p. 42):
."If"onthe other hand, it be conceded that the composition was rightfully approved, as the determination of that
subject did not under the very terms of the statute involve
passing upon the separate and distinct claim of creditors
to be exempt from the operation of the discharge, it results

MYERS v. INTERNATIONAL CO.
64

Opinion of the Court.

that in no view of the case is there merit in the contention
as to res judicata."
This was only to say that the issue of falsity in (3) of
§ 14b, if rightly construed by the bankruptcy court, was
not the same as that in § 17.
The distinction between that case and this then is clear.
The whole and sole effect of the decision in Friendv. Talcott .was, first, that the judgment confirming the composition and discharge, based on (3) of § 14b, was not the
same cause of action as that in the action for deceit based
on § 17, and therefore -that it did not estop the creditor
from obtaining a judgment in the latter suit, and, second,
that the issue of the falsity of the statement, while essential to recovery in the sec6nd suit for deceit, was not
essential to the judgment in bankruptcy as held by the
court which rendered the judgment and was in fact not
determined by that court. In the case before us, however)
we find that the issue of the statement's falsity was the
same and was controlling in both suits and that, because
it was decided against the Trust Company in the first
suit, the decision concludes the issue against the company
in the second. It was error, therefore, to exclude from the
evidence the record of the bankruptcy judgment on the
composition
The judgment is reversed and the case is remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this
opinion.

