NEW YORK v. JERSAWIT.
487

Syllabus.

The same principle was applied to insurance,
the special
field of this narrow construction, in the case of the
Matiana heard and decided with the Petersham, where a
vessel was sailing under convoy and struck a reef without
negligence on the part of the master or the naval officer in
command of the escort. The discussion turned largely
on the question whether the remoter causes of the collision
and stranding were warlike operations, and from the tenor
of the arguments on the one side and the other it may be
doubted whether Morgan v. United States would not have
been thought to go too far. But the Matiana certainly
goes as far as the decision below in this case. There are
special reasons for keeping in harmony with the marine
insurance laws of England, the great field of this business,
and as we could not reverse the decision below without
overruling Morgan v. United States, we are of opinion
that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
affirmed. We repeat that we are dealing not with general
principles but only with the construction of an ancient
form of words which always have been taken in a narrow
sense, and in Morgan v. United States were construed to
refer only to the nearest cause of loss even when there
were strong grounds for looking beyond it to military
command.

Decree affirmed:
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEWYORK v. JERSAWIT, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF AJAX
DRESS COMPANY, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 352. Submitted December 3, 1923.-Decided January 7, 1924.
1. The tax laid on a domestic corporation in New York, (Tax Law,
§ 209,) for the privilege of exercising its franchise m the State, to

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion'of the Court.

263 U. S.

be paid annually "in advance" for the year beginning November
1st, to be computed upon the basis of the entire net income of the
corporation for its fiscal, or the calendar, year preceding, is an
entirety and cannot be apportioned to a fraction of the tax year
which has elapsed when the corporation goes out of business.

P. 495.
2. The State has a claim for the entire tax when the corporation is
thrown into bankruptcy after lapse of part of the tax year. Id.
3. The addition of 10%, where the tax is not paid by January 1st, is
a penalty, and the further addition of 1% for each month the tax
remains unpaid, is not statutory interest, but part of the penalty;
and neither can be allowed the State in a bankruptcy proceeding.
Bankruptcy Act, § 57j. P. 496.
290 Fed. 950, reversed.

CERTIORARI to an order of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed an order of the District Coairt, in bankruptcy, adjudicating a claim made by the State of New
York for a tax.
Mr. Robert P. Beyer and Mr. C. 21. Dawes, Deputy
Attorneys Genera of the State of New York, for petitioner. Mr. Carl Sherman, Attorney General, was also
on the briefs.
Mr. Henry B. Singer for respondent.
Rubenstein was also on the brief.

Mr. Abraham H.

MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This case comes here upon certiorari, 262 U. S. 741,
to review a decision apportioning a claim in bankruptcy
for taxes, presented by the State of New York. 290
Fed. 950. On December 22, 1920, a petition was filed
against the Ajax Dress Company, a manufacturing or
mercantile corporation of the State of. New York, and
it was adjudicated a bankrupt. The State filed a claim
for a tax for the year between November 1, 1920, and
October 31, 1921, and for "penal interest ", under §§ 209

NEW YORK v. JERSAWIT.
493

495

Opinion of the Court.

and 219-c of the Tax Law of New York. Section -209
provides that "For the privilege of exercising its- franchise in this state in a corporate or organized capacity
every domestic corporation . . . shall annually pay in
advance for the year beginning November first . . . an
annual franchise tax, to be computed by the tax commission upon the basis of its entire net income for its
fiscal or the calendar year next preceding." The Cdmpany ceased business on the day when the petition was
filed and the Courts below held that the tax was to be
apportioned to the time, somewhat less than two months,
that the franchise was exercised. By § 219-c of the same
tax law the tax is to be paid on or before January 1 of
each year and if it is not paid the corporation liable shall
pay "in addition to the amount of such tax, . . . ten
per centum of such amount, plus one per centum for each
month the tax ... remains unpaid." The Courts below
held that this latter liability was a penalty and therefore not to be allowed, but allowed six per cent. upon
the tax as apportioned, to the date of payment. 'The
State says that it is entitled to the statutory interest or
none.
On the main question the Circuit Court of Apptu.
tightly recognized that the construction of the state
law by the State Courts should control, but found nothing nearer than People ex rel. Mutual Trust Co. v. Miller,
177 N. Y. 51, where a different statute was held to tax.
the privilege of carrying on the business as actually ex-ercised and therefore to create an apportionable liability.
If the State Court should decide that the present act
was to be construed in the same way*we* should bow,
but until it does so we must regard the meaning as
tolerably plain. The amount to be paid is not determined by the business done during the period taxed but
by the net income of the year before. It is n.ade"a
legal duty, by what the Courts below rightly held to be

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
.Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

a penalty, to pay the tax in advance. When the law
•discussed in the Mutual Trust Company's Case, supra,
was amended so as to provide that the tax should be
payable in advance, the Court of Appeals said that the
amendment changed the character of the tax and that
the grounds of the former decision were no longer applicable. People ex rel. New York Cential & Hudson
River R. R. Co. v. Gaus, 200 N. Y. 328. It hardly.can
be supposed that if the tax had been paid the State
would recognize a claim for a proportionate return. We
are of opinion that the tax is a tax upon the right donferred, not upon the actual exercise of it, that it was due
when the petition in bankruptcy was filed, New Jersey v.
Anderson, 203 U. S. 483, 494, and that the claim of the
State for the whole sum should have been allowed.
There can be no doubt that the additional ten per
centum charged for failure to pay by January 1 is a
penalty, disallowed by the Bankruptcy Act, § 57j, but
it is urged that the one per centum for each month of
default is statutory interest and that the State is entitled to that and otherwise would be entitled to none.
As the one per centum is more than the value of the
use of the money and is added by the statute to the
ten to make a single sum it must be treated as part of
one corpus and must fall with- that. We presume that
in this event the State does not object to receiving the
simple interest allowed. That part of the order will
stand.
Order reversed.

