CRAIG v. HECHT.
250

Statement of the Case.

the time arrived for assuming possession under them the
defendants readily sublet the land on terms which netted
them $890.40 in 1917 and $384.35 in 1918, the latter year
being one of pronounced drought.
Judgment reversed on writ of error.
Writ of certioraridismissed.

CRAIG v. HECHT, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 82.

Argued October 17, 1923.-Decided November 19, 1923.

1. A circuit judge, .as such, has no power to grant the writ of
habeas corpus. P. 271.
2. A final order discharging a petitioner in habeas corpus, made at
chambers by a circuit judge exercising by designation the power of
the District Court, or by a district judge, is rqviewable on appeal
by the Circuit Court of Appeals. P. 274.
3. In an ordinary contempt proceeding the District Court has jurisdiction to decide whether the evidence established an offense within
the statute and whether the respondent was guilty as charged, and
its order sentencing him to imprisonment is reviewable by appeal,
and not by habeas corpus, which cannot be used as a substitute for
appeal, in the absence of exceptional circumstances. P. 277.
282 Fed. 138, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap-

peals reversing an order in habeas corpus which discharged
the petitioner, Craig, from custody under a commitment
issued by the District Court in a contempt proceeding.
The order of discharge was made by a circuit judge, assigned to the District Court, who directed that it be
recorded in that court.
Mr. Edmund L. Mooney, with whom Mr. George P.
Nicholson, Mr. Charles T. B. Rowe, Mr. Frank I. Tierney

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

263 U. S.

and Mr. Russell Lord Tarbox were on the brief, for
petitioner.
I. The district court acted beyond its jurisdiction, because petitioner's act was not "misbehavior," and did
not, and could not, "obstruct" the administration of
justice.
II. The'circuit judge had jurisdiction to issue the writ
of habeas corpus. The mere fact that a court is merged
does not-deprive the judge, whose office still continues, of
any jurisdictional power vested in him, qua judge. By
the Habeas Corpus Act of 1867, 14 Stat. 385, the authority
to issue the writ was vested in the "several courts of the
United States and the several justices and judges of such
courts within their respective jurisdictions," and subsequently, on the appointment of circuit judges, by the
Act of April 10, 1869, 16 Stat. 44, and the still later
codification in the Revised Statutes, the jurisdiction to
issue the writ was vested in "the Supreme Court and the
circuit and district courts," Rev. Stats., § 751, and upon
"the several justices and judges of the said courts," id.,
§ 752; and again by §§ 754, 755, 757, 758, 760-763, the
jurisdictional power of the justices and judges is repeated.
These justices and judges are described in the Revised
Statutes as "the several justices and judges of the said
courts," but since they were in fact "Justices of the
Supreme Court," and "circuit judges" and "district
judges," this was but a short way of describing the officers
in whom was vested the jurisdictional authority. The
statute~rmight as well have read, and, in the ordinary
vernacular, would have read "the Justices of the Supreme
Court, the circuit judges and the district judges," or
"United States judge," as in § 6 of the Chinese Exclusion
Act of .1862, or "judge of the United States," as in § 1014,
Rev. Stats., which would have had the same meaning as
the words actually employed. The object and purpose of
the applicable provisions of the Judicial Code were to get

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

Argument for Petitioner.

rid of superfluous courts, court officers and records, not to
circumscribe the jurisdictional power of the judges.
Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S. 132, distinguished.
The jurisdictional powers of the court and those of the
judge are distinct. 'UnitedStates v. Clarke, 1 Gall. 497.
The reluctance of a judge to discharge a person committed
by a judge of cordinate jurisdiction, In re Hale, 139 Fed.
496, would not apply in the same degree to a circuit judge
reexamining the act of a district judge. The only "other
and appropriate sources of judicial power," Ex parte Tracy,
249 U. S. 551, are Justices of the Supreme Court and the
Supreme Court itself, which should be relieved of such
applications whenever possible.
The policy of the United States has been in the direction of extending and not of abridging the advantages of
the writ of habeas corpus. The Constitution provides
that "the privilege of the writ . , . shall not be suspended." Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2. This policy is
further evidenced by the acts of Congress in conferring
wide jurisdiction. Judiciary Act September 24, 1789, §
14; Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cr. 75; Act March 2, 1833, § 7, 4
Stat. 634; Habeas Corpus Act February 5, 1867, 14 Stat.
385; Ex parte McCardle, 6 Wall. 318; Whitney v. Dick,
202 U. S. 132, 136. When the circuit judges were appointed under the Act of 1869, supra, there was conferred
upon them all of the powers of Supreme Court Justices
within their respective circuits, one of which was.the
power to issue writs of habeas*corpus, which always inhered in the office of Supreme Court Justice. The circuit judges received a baptism of power to issue this writ
at the moment of their appointment; and this power- did
not originate in or spring.from the panoply of a court.
The Act of 1869, providing for the appointment of
circuit judhes, was re6nacted in substance in § 607, Rev.
Stats. The Habeas Corpus Act of 1867 was transposed
74308'-24-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Petitioner.

263 U. S.

into §§ 751, 752, Rev. Stats. This revision of the language of the Habeas Corpus Act, without any apparent
intention to change its effect, brought about no substantial- change in the law, so that the specification of the
several courts of the United States as " the Supreme Court
and the circuit court and district courts" meant substantially i;hat it did in the first place in the Habeas Corpus
Act, namely, that the power was conferred upon the "several justices and judges of the said cK. -s," to wit, the
Supreme Court and the District Court,, as expanded by
the Act of 1869, appointing circuit jUdges and giving
them the same power, within their jurisdiction, as
Supreme Court Judges. There never has been an express change in the Habeas Corpus Act of 1867, except
in its revision by the Revised Statutes. The habeas
corpus provisions remain exactly as they were.
It is an "elementary rule that a special and particular
statutory provision affording a remedy for particular and
specific cases is not repealed by a general law unless the
repeal be express or the implication to that end be irresistible." Ex parte United States, 226 U. S. 420. This
Court has shown no tendency to restrict the "appropriate sources of judicial power" to issue the writ. Ex
parte Tracy, 249 U. S. 551.
A very material consideration, wesubmit, is that when
circuit judges were created no new court was createdthe circuit court was already in existence. As the circuit
judges did not derive their origin from a court, it is hard
to see how they could lose any of their powers, as judges,
by the abolition or merger of the court in which they
usually sat.
The holding of the lower court is, in effect, that by the
abolition or merger of the circuit court, the circuit judges
were shorn of all of their powers-nothing was left to
them except their bare titles-and that they were reclothed with the power, and only with the power, to sit

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

Argument for Petitioner.

on the bench of the Circuit Courts of Appeals. We know,
howxever, that they retained jurisdiction to sit under the
Expedition Act, Ex parte United States, supra; and under the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1892. 8 6. Fong Yue
Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698. They are comprehended within the category of "any justice or judge of
the United States" in § 1014, Rev. Stats., relating to the
arrest and holding or bail of persons accused of crime.
They also may, without designation, grant injunctions
or restraining orders in cases pending in the district
courts of their circuits (Jud. Code, § 264) and, upon
designation by the President, act as a judge of the Court
of Customs Appeals. Jud. Code, § 188. As the circuit
judges retained these several powers as judges, under the
separate acts conferring them, notwithstanding the abolition or merger of the circuit courts by the Judicial Code,
how can it be said that they were, by the Judicial Code,
shorn of the power conferred by the separate Habeas
Corpus Act, unrepealed, to issue the great writ, which
they had exercised in numberless instances covering over
half a century?
It would be a violent assumption that in dispensing
with the machinery of a court, Congress intended to strip
the judges thereof of their own inherent powers, especially where •he act was not to be "construed to prevent
any circuit judge holding district court or serving in the
commerce court, or otherwise, as provided for and author-.'
ized in other sections of this Act." Jud. Code, § 1i8. The
exercise of this power by a circuit judge is well exampled
in the leading case before this court of Carper v. Fitzgeraid; 121 U. S. 87.
In'the present case, Circuit Judge Manton was the regularly acting judge holding, the chambers part of the district court, under designatior when the writ was issued.
He was the judge before whom it was our dutkr to go and
he was the judge whose business it was--using the word
in its proper sense-to issue the writ.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1023.
Argument for Petitioner.

-

263 U. S.

But, though thus designate6d, the point of the jurisdiction and power of a circuit judg61o issue a writ of habeas
corpus is necessarily involved, for only by holding that a
circuit judge had no such jurisdiction or power, and that
the order was an order of the district court, did the court
below assert jurisdiction to hear and decide the appeal,
notwithstanding the petitioner's motion to dismiss the
appeal.
III. In issuing the writ, the circuit judge, in addition
to his powers as such, was exercising the powers of a dis:
trict judge, under designation. Ex parte United States,
226 U. S. 420. His order was not a court order, but a
judge's order. Carperv. Fitzgerald,supra.
It will be observed that § 18, Jud. Code, provides for
designation of the circuit judge, but the following section
does not limit the judge so designated to holding the
court; it provides that "all the acts and proceedings
by or before him, in pursuance of such provisions, shall have the same effect and validity as if done
by or before the district judge of the said district." The
designation in this case follows the lines of the statute.
A circuit judge can no more lay aside his title and
powers of circuit judge than could he be stripped of them;
he is always a circuit judge. Mcgarron v. People, 13
N. Y. 74.
Even if this Court shall hold that a circuit judge has no
power, as such, to grant a writ of habeas corpus, he nay
have the power, under Rev. Stats., § 752 whenever he is
a judge of the district court. Where Congress has committed jur~sdictioh to a judge as a judicial tribunal, he
functions through his own inherent power and not
through or cn behalf of the court of which he is a member.
United States v. Duell, 172 U. S. 576; Carperv. Fitzgerald, supra.
IV. The decisions are uniform that no appeal lay to the
Circuit Court of Appeals from an order of a judge; that

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

Argument for Petitioner.

only an order of a, court might be reviewed by appeal or
writ of error. Carperv. Fitzgerald,supra; In re Lennon,
150 U. S. 393; McKnight v. James, 155 U. S. 685; Lambert v. Barrett, 157 U. S. 697; Ex parte Jacobi, 104 Fed.
681; Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S. 148.
V. This Court had exclusive jurisdiction, by direct appeal, to review the order discharging the petitioner, which
was based upon a finding that the petitioner had been deprived of his liberty by an excess of power, involving the
construction and application of the Constitution. The
'assumption of jurisdiction by the Circuit Court of Appeals warrants and-requires the intervention of this Court.
Jud. Code, § 238; Raton Water Works Co. v. Raton, 249
U. S. 552, and other cases.
VI. If the Circuit Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction
to review the order of a circuit judge, its determination
should be reversed regardless of the question whether the
district court acted in excess of its powers, and regardless,
also, of whether habeas corpus was the prper remedy,
leaving those questions to be reviewed by appropriate
procedure. FirstNational Bank v. Chicago Title & Trust
Co., 198 U. S. 286.
VII. Habeas corpus was the proper and affective remedy for excess of power or lack of jurisdiction in the commitment for asserted contempt. Ex parte Hudgings, 249
U. S. 378; In re Watts and Sachs, 190 U. S. 1; Cuyler v.
Atlantic & N. C. R. R. Co., 131 Fed. 95; In re Reese, 98
Fed. 984; Ex parte Dock Bridges, 2 Woods, 428; Ex parte
Lange, 18 Wall. 163; Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371; Ex
parte Fisk, 113 U. "S. 713; In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443;
Nielsen, Petitioner,131 U. S. 176; Cuddy, Petitioner,131
U. S. 280; In re Mayfield, 141 U. S. 107; Ex parte Robinson, 144 Fed. 835; Ex parte Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328; In re
Belt, 159 U. S. 95; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62.
VIII. The .disregard, by the court below, of The statutory proviso of punishment for obstructive misbehavior,

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

263 T. S.

only, and the limitations sought to be placed by the court
below on the scope of the writ of habeas corpus, are pot
in accord with the rulings of this Court. Jud. Code § 268;
Brass Crosby, Lord Mayor of London, 3 Wilson, 188; Ex
parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, referred to,
Ex parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38, and Ex parte Watkins,
3 Pet. 193, were decided before the Act of 1831 (now
Jud. Code, § 268), which introduced the proviso of obstructive misbehavior as the basis of contempt, and are
no longer applicable.
We freely concede that the writ of habeas corpus may
not be employed as an antiipatory writ of error, such as
was discountenanced in Henry v. Henkel, 235 U. S. 219;
Rumely v. McCarthy, 250 U. S. 283, and similar cases.
But generally the rule of procedure for which such cases
stand is quite beside the right to attack by writ for lack
of jurisdiction or excess of power. Ex parte Parks, 93
U. S. 18; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651; Ex
parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 375; United States v. Pridgeon,
153 U. S. 48; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; Ex parte
Hudgings, 249 U. S. 378.
Even though the only question that the court on habeas
corpus can look into is one of jurisdiction, broadly considered, the cases show that the court may look into the
facts upon which the conviction was based, to the' extent
that they affect the jurisdiction of the court which assumed td make the adjudication. In re Mayfield, 141
U. S. 107; Cuddy, Petitioner,131 U. S. 280.
IX. The objections raised to the form of the writ were
unavailing to oust the circuit judge of power to act.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Alfred A.
Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for respondent.
I. The judgment of conviction rendered by the. district
court w final and conclusive until reversed bn writ of
error.

CRAIG v. IIECHT.
255

263-

Argument for Re~pondent.

The court had jurisdiction of the person of the offender
and of the offense, and the sentence imposed was within
its power, both inherent and as confirmed by the statute.
Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505; In re Debs, 158 U. S.
565; Toledo Newspaper Co. v. United States, 247 U. S.
402.
The authority conferred by Jud. Code, § 268, clearly
embraced the offense. No issue of jurisdiction is left.
The petitioner urged certain issues of law and fact as
affecting the jurisdiction, but every one of these was
open to review on appeal to this Court, as the judgment of conviction was unquestionably a final decision.
Jud. Code, § 128; Bessette v. Conkey Co., 194 U. S.
324. Assuming that the trial court's determination of
every one of -these questions was erroneous, none of them
*ould ,bewithin the scope of habeas corpus. Ex parte
Watkins, 3 Pet. 193; Riddle v. Dyche, 262 U. S. 333. "
II. The matters litigated before Judge Manton did
not involve the jurisdiction of the court which tried and
sentenced the petitioner, and the proceedings amounted to
a mere review on the merits for which an appeal was the
proper remedy.
The law is that the findings of the trial court may not
be attacked, collaterally, nor can the record be examined
to see whet'her there is evidence warranting a conviction.
Harlan. v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442; Ex parte Carll,
106 U: S. 521" In re Debs, 158 U. S. 565; Matter of
Gregory, 219 L. S.210.
III. The writ of habeas corpus may not be used as a
substitute for an appeal. The court on habeas corpus •
is limited to jurisdictional questions. Glasgow v. Moyer,
225 U. S.420; Matter of Gregory, supra; Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193; Ex ,parte Parks, 93.,U. S. 18; Harlan
v. McGourin, supra.
To warrant discharge on habeas corpus, the judgment,
upon which the commitment is based, must be not merely

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

263 U. S.

erroneous, but absolutely void. This proposition excludes from consideration any error, however vital or
prejudicial it may be deemed. The remedy for error is
by appeal: The cases on this proposition are so .varied
and so strongly stated as to leave no doubt of their purport or effect. Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193; Ex parte
Parks, 93 U. S. 18; Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651;
Ex parte Spencer, 228 U. S. 652; Ex parte Siebold, 100
U. S. 371.
While it may be admitted that to some extent a contempt case is sui generis, nevertheless it is governed by
the general rules applicable to appeals and writs of error.
Habeas corpus is not the method of review provided for
contempt cases or any class of cases. Ex parte Kearney,
7 Wheat. 38.
The case at bar is plainly within the general rule.
Judge Manton accepted the contentions of the petitioner
in two respects. He placed an innocuous interpretation
upon the letter which was the basis of the contempt
charge, and he decided that there was nothing pending
sub judice when the letter was published. That is, he
reversed Judge Mayer's findings of fact, and made contrary findings. But the sufficiency of the evidence was
not before him. It is clearly distinguished frpm jurisdictional questions. Harlan v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442,
and other cases cited above.
If the proposition might properly be argued here, it
could easily be demonstrated that the' publication was
contemptuous.
As to the contention that there was nothing pending
sub judice at the time of the publication, if it. be assumed
that this is an essential element of the crime, it is to be
determined, like every other element, by the trial court.
The determination of that court, if erroneous, might be
corrected on appeal. If we were at all concerned with
that question here (and we are not), it might be pointed

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

265

Argument for Respondent.

out that the contemptuous criticism was not limited to
a single past order, but referred to a continuing policy
in the receivership, which was undoubtedly pending, to
many orders made in that receivership; and the writer
sought to procure the entry of other'orders in the future.
This question was carefully considered and effectively disposed of by the trial court in its opinion.
The exceptions to the general rule as to- the scope of
habeas corpus do not include the base at bar. There are
only five classes of cases in which the court on habeas
corpus will go beyond the question of jurisdiction. (1)
Where there is a conflict of jurisdiction between a State
and the United States; (2) where the authority and
operations of the Federal Government are or may be
interfered with by state action; (3) where rights or obligations of the United States under a treaty are involved;
(4) where the petitioner is held under state process based
upon state law which is in violation of the Constitution;
and (5) where the judgment or order under which he is
held is a nullity because in excess of the power of the
court. This classification is based upon an analysis of
Henry v. Henkel, 235 U. S. 228, and the cases there cited.
The first and-second exceptions are closely related. The
fundamental reason for the first four exceptions is the
necessity of employing habeas corpus in order expedi.tiously and adequately to maintain the supremacy of
federal laws and treaties in compliance with § 2 of Art.
VI of the Constitution. See Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 397;
Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U. S. 257; In re Neagle, 135
U. S. 1; In re Watts and Sachs, 190 U. S. 1.
Illustrations of the first and second exceptions are In re
Loney, 134 U. S. 372, explained in New York v. Eno, 155
U. S. 89; Tarble's Case, supra; Boske v. Comingore, 177
U. S. 459;'In re Neagle, supra, and possibly In re Watts
and Sachs, supra. These are cases of urgency.
The third exception, essential to assure the fulfillment
of treaty 9bligations and the proper conduct of foreign

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Argument for Respondent.

263 I. S.

relations, is illustrated in In re Mayfield, 141 U. S. 107, and
is commented upon in Ex parte Royall, 117 U S. 241;
In re Nedgle, 135 U. S. 74; Boske v. Comingore, 177 U. S.
466; In re Lincoln, 202 U. S. 178.
As to the fourth exception, under which the validity
of state laws, claimed to infringe the Federal Constitution,
is sometimes tested on habeas corpus, Ex parte Royall,
117 U. S. 241, is the best example. The power of the
court in this class of cases is purely discretionary. This.
subject is also discussed and the cases are collected in In re
Lincoln, 202 U. S. 178.
In these four exceptional classes of cases the writ of
habeas corpus is employed whenever the federal courts
are confronted with the duty of maintaining the supremacy of the laws, the treaties, and the Constitution
of the United States against attack bSr the States. The
applicant for the writ in these cases has no absolute right
to it, except where it is expressly given by statute. The
granting of this extraordinary relief rests in the court's
discretion and is exercised sparingly and only in an emergency.
I Examples of the fifth exception, which may be called
cases involving excess of power, are Ex parte Lange, 18
Wall. 163; Nielsen, Petitioner, 131 U. S. 176; and Ex
parte Hudgings, 249-U. S. 378. The petitioner strives to
bring himself within this exception.
. The Hudgings Case presents no analogy to -the case
at bar, In Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, the judgment
was not merely erroneous but absolutely void; as also in
Nielsen, Petitioner,131 U. S. 176. Ex parte Bridges, 2
Woods, 248,'was. substantially identical- in facts with the
Loney Case, 134 U. S. 37,2. Inre Mayfield, 141 U. S. 107,
plainly comes-within the third exception. In re Watts
and 5achs, 190 U. S. 1, the Court took jurifdiction by.
ertiorari, and employed habeas corpus in fid of its juris-

CRAIG v. HECAT.
255

Argument for Respondent.

diction. Assuming, however, that the case were one o
habeas corpus alone, there was a direct conflict betweeI
the state and federal courts. The case is therefore within
the first exception.
There is another situation sometimes occurring on
habeas corpus .that it may be suggested constitutes an
exception to the general rule. It is not an exception, but
if it were, it could have no application to the case at bar.
Where there is a lack of jurisdiction in the lower court or
its judgment is void, an appellate court, authorized to
review its action on writ of error, may grant relief by
habeas corpus, instead of remitting the applicant to his
remedy by writ of error. Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371.
But such power can be exercised, as is clearly shown in the
Siebold Case, only by a court having supervisory jurisdiction, from which a writ of error would lie, and only when
the judgment assailed is void. 100 U. S. 375. See also
Ex parte Spencer, 228 U. S. 652.
As heretofore indicated, the enumerated exceptions are
merely the instances in which, because of the absence of
other forms of remedy, it is necessary to resort to habeas
corpus in order to assure the rights of persons restrained
of liberty, and are in effect mere interpretations of § 753,
Rev. Stats.
IV. Since the circuit court was abolished, a judge of the
Circuit Court of Appeals has no power -,o grant the writ
of habeas corpus. Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S. 132;
McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 666; Lau Ow Bew v. United
States, 144 U. S. 55; Fong Yue Ting v. United States,
149 U. S. 698; Ex parte Tracy, 249 U. S. 551.
The so-called writ of habeas corpus was void. 'It is not
addressed to anybody; it bears the seal of no court'nor
the signature of the clerk, and is merely signed "Martin
T. Manton, U. S. C. J."
V. The order of 'Judge Manton was appealable to the
Circuit, Court of Appeals. That court regarded the order

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion-of the Court.

263 U. S.

discharging the petitioner from custody as an order ot the
district court, made by a judge sitting in that court, and
therefore appealable. 282 Fed. 145. This conclusion,
we submit, is sound in view of the facts shown by the
record, and it is unnecessary to add anything to the
reasoning on it of the judges of the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Even though the order be regarded as a judge's order,,
it was nevertheless appealable. Webb v. York, 70 Fed.
753; United States v. Fowkes, 53 Fed. 13; Duff v. Carrier,
55 Fed. 433; In re Starr, 56 Fed. 142; United States v.
Gee Lee, 50 Fed. 271. Carperv. Fitzgerald,121 U. S. 87,
distinguished.
VI. Misuse of the writ of habeas corpus is becoming
increasingly prevalent. This record presents the situation
in a, most aggravating form. Not only was there no
attempt to review the conviction in the orderly manner
prescribed by law, but, by deliberate avoidance of that
method, an appeal to another judge was substituted, and
the attempt was made to shape the proceedings 'so that
no review of his decision could be had. The result has
been intolerable delay, great and unnecessary expense,
and an offender against the administration of justice still
unpunished.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The opinions below are reported in 266 Fed. 230; 274
Fed. 177; 279 Fed. 900; 282 Fed. 138.
In October, 1919, petitioner Craig, Comptroller of New
York City, wrote and published a letter to Public Service
Commissioner Nixon, wherein he assailed United States
District Judge Mayer because of certain action taken in
receivership proceedings then pending. The United States
District Attorney filed an information .charging him with
criminal contempt under § 268, Judicial Code.

• CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

Opinion of the Court.

, Having heard the evi.dence, given the matter prolonged
gonsideration and offered the accused opportunity 'to retract, on February 24, 1921-some fifteen months after
the offense-Judge Mayer, holding the District Court, sentenced petitioner to jail for sixty days and committed him
to the custody of the United States Marshal. Immediately, withQut making any effort to appeal, Craig presented his verified petition, addressed " To the Honorable
Martin T. Manton, Circuit Judge of the United States,"
asking for a writ of habeas corpus and final discharge.
The record of all evidence and proceedings before the District Court was annexed to or, by reference, made part of
the petition. The judge promptly signed and issued the
following writing, which bore neither seal of court nor
clerk's attestation:
" The United States of America.,

Second Judicial Circuit,
ss.:
Southern District of New York. I
" We command you that the body of Charles L. Craig,
in your custody detained, as it is said, together with the
day and cause of his caption and detention, you safely
have before Honorable Martin T. Manton, United States
Circuit Judge for the Second Judicial Circuit, within the
Circuit and. District aforesaid, to do and receive all and
singulkr those things which the said judge shall then and
there consider of him in this behalf; and have you then
.and there this writ.
"Witness the Honorable Martin T. Manton, United
States Circuit Judge for the Second Judicial .Circuit, this
24th day of February, 1921, and in the 145th year of the
Independence of the United States of America. Martin
T. Manton, U. S. C. J." The Marshal made return, and set up the contempt
proceedings in the District Court along with the order of
commitment. This vas traversed; and Judge Manton
heard the" cause. He said and ruled-- •

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

"Was there a cause pending within the rule of contempt concerning libelous publications? A cause is pending when it is still open to modifications, appeal 6r rehearing and until the final judgment is rendered. Did
the letter concern a cause pending? If it did not, it
could not obstruct the administration of justice. The
application before the court which is the subject matter
of the letter was the matter of a co-receiver. As to this
the court had definitely decided adverse to the Comptroller. The court's action was complete in respect to this
matter. . . The district judge pointed out, as did the
information, that the whole railroad situation was before
the court, since it was an equity proceeding, but it is not
of this that the defendant wrote. This is fully corroborated by the testimony of the defendant. He also testified
that he had no intention of obstructing the delivery of
justice or misbehaving himself so as to obstruct the administration of justice.' He stands convicted upon hik
letter 'alone and such inferences as may be drawn there,from. His conviction rests upon an issue between the
court and the defendant, and it is one of terminology or
interpretation. There is no criminal intent discoverable
from this record to support the interpretation placed upon
it by the court, nor was there pending sub judice a proceeding before the court at the time the letter was written.
The conclusion is irresistible that the court exceeded its
jurisdiction by an excess of power in adjudging the defendant guilty. The petition for discharge is granted."
"It is ordered that the papers in this'proceeding be filed
with the Clerk of the United States District Court for

hfie Southern District of New York, in his office in the
Post .Office Building, in the Borough of Manhattan, City
of New York, and that this order be recorded in said
court."
Circuit Judge Hough allowed an appeal. Being of
opinion that Circuit Judges, as such, are without power

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

Opinion of the Court.

to grant writs of habeas corpus, the Circuit Court of Appeals treated the cause as determined by the District
Court, to which Judge Manton had been assigned, and
held--" We find no reason why this case is not governed
by the general rule that a habeas corpus proceeding cannot be used as a writ or error but must be limited to jurisdictional questions. .
The sole question which
could be considered in the habeas corpus proceedings was
as to the jurisdiction of the District Judge. If he had
jurisdiction of the person of the petitioner, Craig, and
jurisdiction of the subject and, authority to rendr the
judgment which he pronounced, there was no right to
inquire further in the habeas corpus proceedings, and no
right to determine whether or not, in the exercise of that
jurisdiction, the District Judge had committed error. If
errors were committed, the law afforded a remedy therefor,
but not by habeas corpus." It concluded that the District Court, Judge Mayer presiding, had jurisdiction of
both offense and person, and reversed the order of discharge.
The court correctly held that United States Circuit
Judges, as such, have no power to grant writs of habeas
corpus.
Two sections of the Revised Statutes authorize the
granting and issuing of such writs.
"See. 751. The Supreme Court and the circuit and district courts shall have power to issue writs of habeas
corpus.
"See. 752. The several justices and judges of the said
courts, within their respective jurisdictions, shall have
power to grant writs of habeas corpus for the purpose of
an inquiry into the cause of restraint of liberty."
The Judiciary Act of 1789 provided for the organization
of Circuit Courts. Until 1869 they were presided over
by District Judges and Justices of the Supreme Court.
The Act of April 10, 1869, 16 Star. 44, created the office

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

of Circuit Judge. "For each of the nine existing judicial
circui-6 there shall be appointed a circuit judge, who shall
reside in his circuit, and shall possess the same power and
jurisdiction therein as the justice of the Supreme Court
allotted to the circuit." This provision became part ofSec. 607, Rev. Stats. "For each circuit there shall be
appointed a circuit judge, who shall have the same power
and jurisdiction therein as the justice of the Supreme
Court, allotted to the circuit. . . . Every circuit
-judge shall reside within his circuit."
The Act of March 3, 1911 (Judicial Code, §§ 289, 291,
297), abolished Circuit Courts, conferred their duties and
'powers upon the District Courts and specifically repealed
§ 607, Rev. Stats. It- also repealed "all Acts'and parts of
Acts authorizing the appointment of United States circuit or district judges . . . enacted prior to February
1,1911.". Section 118, Judicial Code, provides-- *
"There shall be in the second, seventh, and eighth circuits, respectively, four circuit judges; in the fourth circuit, twocircuit judges; and in each of the other circuits,
three circuit judges, 'to be appointed by the President, by
and with the advice and consent, of the Senate. . -.
The ci:cuit judges in each. circuit shall be judges of the
circuit court.of appeals in that circuit, and it shall be the
duty of each circuit judge in each circuit to sit as one of
the judges of the circuit court of appeals in that circuit
from time. to time according to law: Provided, That
nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent any
circuit judge holding district court or serving in the commerce court, or otherwise, as provided for and authorized
in other sections, of this Act."
Sections 751 and 752, Rev. Stats., give authority to
grant writs of habeas corpits only to judges and justices
of the courts therein specified-Supreme, Circuiti and District. The Judicial Code abolished the Circuit Courts.
Only. justices of the Supreme Court and judges of District. Courts remain within the ambit of' the statute.

CRAIG v. HECHT.

273

Opinion of the Court.

255

Section 18, Judicial Code. "Whenever, in the judgment of the senior circuit judge of the circuit in which
the district lies, or of the-circuit justice assigned to,iuch
circuit, or of the Chief Justice, the public interest shall
require, the said judge, or associate justice, or Chief.
Justice, shall designate and appoint any circuit judge of
the circuit to hold said district court."
A duly executed writing designated and appointed
Judge Manton "to hold a session of the District Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York
for the trial of causes and the hearing and disposition of
such ex parte and other business as may come before
him during the period beginning February 21, 1921, and
ending March 5, 1921." Petitioner's counsel took care to
show this assignment and, responding to the motion that
the judge should proceed as a District Court in hearing
the application for petitioner's discharge, he stated"Our position is, your Honor, that the writ is issued by
you as a Circuit Judge. In addition thereto, you were
designated formally under the statute, and under that
form of designation you had the power and the. duty in
chambers of doing the acts and proceedings of a District
Court Judge, and we therefore claim that there was
super-added to your powers, if necessary, the powers and
activities of a District' Court Judge." And in the brief
here counsel maintains, "In issuing the writ Circuit Judge
Manton, in addition to his powers as a Circuit Judge,
was exercising the powers of a District Judge under
designation."
As Circuit Judges have no authority to issue writs of
habeas corpus, Judge Manton acted unlawfully unless
the proceeding was before him either as District Judge
or as the District Court. The record shows he did. not
rely solely on his authority as Circuit Judge; and, considering his assignment and all the circumstances, we
agree with the court below that he was exercising the
74308°-2-1i

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

powers of the District Court. He was not a District
Judge, but Circuit Judge assigned "to hold a session of
the District Court."
If it be conceded that he acted as District Judge and
not as the District Court, nevertheless his action was
subject to review. Webb v. York (1896), 74 Fed. 753,
holds that an appeal lies to the Circuit Court of Appeals
from the final orders of a judge at chambers in habeas
corpus proceedings. Notwithstanding Hoskins v. Funk,
239 Fed. 278, to the contrary, we approve the conclusion
reached in Webb v. York and think it is supported by
sound argument. The court said"The present motion to dismiss . . raises the question
whether an -appeal lies to this court from an order made
by a district judge at chambers in a habeas corpus proceeding, directing the discharge of a prisoner.. Prior to
the act of March 3, 1891, creating circuit courts of appeals .. . an appeal lay from such orders to the circuit
court for the district by virtue of section 763, Rev.
St.....
"'Sec. 763. From the final decision of any court, justice
or judge inferior to the circuit court, upon an application
for a writ of habeas corpus or upon such writ when issued,
an appeal may be taken to the circuit court for the district
in which the cause is heard....'
"In the case of United States v. Fowkes, 53 Fed. 13, it
was held that the act of March 3, 1891, supra, operated
to divest the circuit courts of their appellate jurisdiction
in habeas corpus cases, under section 763, and that by
virtue of the provisions of the act of March 3, 1891, the
various circuit courts of appeals had acquired the jurisdiction to review the decisions of district courts in habeas
corpus cases that had previously been exercised by the circuit courts. This conclusion, we think, was fairly warranted by the following clause. ...
"' Sec. 4. That no appeal, whether by writ of error
or otherwise, shall hereafter be taken or allowed from any

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

Opinion of the Court.

district court to the existing circuit courts, and no appellate jurisdiction shall hereafter be exercised or allowed
by said existing circuit courts, but all appeals by writ of
error or otherwise, from said district courts shall only be
subject to review in the supreme court of the United
States or in the circuit court of appeals hereby established.... '
"See, also Duff v. Carrier,55 Fed. 433.
"The result is that, unless the act of March 3, 1891, is
construed as lodging in the circuit court of appeals the
appellate jurisdiction, under section 763, from final decisions of district judges, that was previously exe-cised.by
the circuit courts, the right of appeal, plainly granted by
that section, from final decisions of district judges at
chambers in habeas corpus cases is lost, and becomes
valueless, because no court has been designated to which
appeals in such cases may be taken. We think it clear
that it was not the purpose of Congress to thus legislate.
If it had intended to abolish the right of appeal from
the decisions of district judges in habeas corpus cases,
it would doubtless have done so in plain and direct terms.
The fact that the right of appeal was not thus abolished
furnishes a persuasive inference that Congress intended
to designate a court to hear and determine such appeals.
In McLish v. Roff, 141 U. S. 661, 666, 12 Sup. Ct. 118,
and in Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 12"
Sup. Ct. 517, it was said, in substance, by the supreme
court of the United States that it was the purpose of
the act of March 3, 1891, to distribute the entire appellate
jurisdiction theretofore exercised by the federal courts between the supreme court of the United States and the
circuit courts of appeals that were thereby established.
This intent, we think, is plainly apparent from the terms
of the act. Moreover, the act in question very much
enlarged the right of appeal, and that was one of its chief
objects. In no single instance, so, far as we are aware,

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

was a previous right of appeal abolished. We think,
therefore, that it may be fairly concluded that it was the
intention of Congress to confer on. the circuit courts of
appeals the right to hear appeals from final orders made
by district judges in habeas corpus cases, as well as to
hear appeals from final decisions of district courts made
in such cases. -We can conceive of no reason why the
right should be denied in the one case and granted in the
other' and such we believe was not the intent of the lawmaker. In the case of United States v. Gee Lee, 50 Fed.
271, it was held that the words 'the judge of the district
court for the district' as used in an act of Congress, were
equivalent to the words 'district court for the district.'
By a similar latitude of construction, the intent being
clear, we think that section 4 of the act of March-3, 1891,
may be held to authorize an appeal to the United States
circuit court of appeals from a final decision of a district
judge at chambers in a habeas corpus case, as well as from
a final decision of a district court."
See-also United States, Petitioner 194 U. S. 194.
Carper v. Fitzgerald, 121 U. S. 87; In re Lennon, 150
U. S. 393; Mcnight v. James, 155 U. S. 685; Lambert v.
Barrett, 157 U. S. 697; Harkraderv. Wadley, 172 U. S.
1-48, are cited by petitioner to show that no appeal lay
from the order discharging petitioner. These cases relate
to the jurisdiction of this Court, not the Circuit Court of
Appeals. The one first cited and most relied upon was
decided in 1887. It recognizes the distinction between
orders of a judge, as such, and decrees by the court. It
denied the right to appeal here from-a, judge's order; it
did not discuss the power of Circuit Courts to review
such orders. The later cited cases go. no further than to
hold that appeals do not lie to this Court from orders by
judges at chambers.
Although in point, we cannot agree with Ex parte
Jacobi, 104 Fed. 681, where the opinion of the Circuit

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

Opinion of the Court.

Judge attempts to support denial of an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from an order granted at chambers.
The court below had jurisdiction of the appeal.
On the merits, there is nothing unusual about the
cause now before us. Unlike Ex parte Hudgings, 249
U. S. 378, 3.84, it cannot be regarded as " an exception
to the general rules of procedure.": Nor do we think it
presents circumstances sufficiently extraordinary to bring
it within any class of "exceptional cases." Henry v.
Henkel, 235 U. S. 219, 228.
The matter heard by Judge Mayer was an ordinary
contempt proceeding and Toldeo Newspaper Co. v. United
States, 247 U. S. 402, is enough to show that the District
Court had power to entertain it, decide whether the evidence established an offense within the statute and determine petitioner's guilt or innocence. When the latter
found himself aggfieved by the decree his remedy by appeal was plain. Neglecting that course, he asked a single
judge to review and upset the entire proceedings, and now
claims there was no appeal from the favorable order. As
tersely stated by Judge Hough, "there is no new matter
in this record attacking jurisdiction; what really happened was that the case was tried over again, and the
so-called writ was no more than a device for obtaining a
new trial." The course taken indicates studied purpose
to escape review of either proceeding by an appellate
court. Petitioner may not complain of unfortunate consequences to himself.
The Circuit Court of Appeals correctly applied the wellestablished, general rule that a writ of labeas corpus
cannot be utilized for the purpose of proceeding-' in error.
Harlan v. McGourin, 218 U. S. 442, 445; Matter of
Gregory, 219 U: S. 210, 213, 217; Glasgow v. Moyer, 225
U. S. 420, 428, 429. Its decree is affirmed and the cause
will be remanded to the District Court for the Southern
District of New York with directions to vacate the order

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
TAwr, Ch. J., concurring.

263 U. S.

releasing petitioner; discharge the writ; and take such
further proceedings as may be necessary to carry this
opinion into effect.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this cause.
MR. CHrEF JusTIcE TAFr, concurring.
I concur fully in the opinion of the Court."
It is of primary importance that the right freely to comment on and criticise the action, opinions and judgments
of courts and judges should be preserved inviolate; but
it is also essential that courts and judges should not be
impeded in the conduct of judicial business by publications having the direct tendency and effect of obstructing the enforcement of their order8 and judgmerfts, or of
impairing the justice and- impartiality of verdicts.
If the publication criticises the jiudg or, court after
the matter with which the criticism has to do has been
finally adjudicated and the.-roceedings are ended so that
the carrying -out of the curt's judgment can not be
thereby obstructed, the pubhication' is not contempt and
can not be summarily punishied by the court however
false, malicious or unjust it may be. The remedy of the
judge as an individual is by action or prosecution for
libel. If, however, the publication is intended and calculated to obstruct and embarrass the court in a pending
proceeding in the. matter of the renditidn of an impartial
verdict, or in the cdrrying out of its orders and judgment,
th court may, and it is its duty to protect the administratioli of justice by punishment of the offender for contempt.
The federal statute concerning contempts as construed
by thisCourt in prior cases vests, in the trial judge the
jurisdiction to decide whether. a publication is obstructive

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

279

TAFr, Ch. J., concurring.

or defamatory only. The delicacy there is in the judge's
deciding whether an attack upon his own judicial action
is mere criticism or real obstruction, and the possibility
that impulse.may incline his view to personal vindication,
are manifest. But the law gives the person convicted
of contempt in such a case the right to have the whole
question on facts and law reviewed by three judges of
the Circuit Court of Appeals who have had no part in
the proceedings, and if not successful in that court, to
apply to this Court for an.opportunity for a similar review here.
The petitioner and his counsel have made such a review
impossible. Instead of pursuing this plain remedy for injustice that -may have been done by the trial judge and
securing by an appellate court a review of this very serious
question on the merits, they sought by applying to a
single judge of only cordinate authority for a writ 6f
habeas corpus to release the petitioner on the ground
that the trial judge was without jurisdiction to 'Make the
decision he did. This raised 'the sole issue whether the
trial judge had authority to decide the question, not
whether he had-rightly decided it.
Relying on a decision of this Court made'years ago
when the statutory provisions were different from those
which now apply, the petitioner and his counsel thought
that if they could secure a decision from a single circuit
judge releasing the petitioner, no appeal would lie from
his decision and that thus resort to the appellate courts
could be avoided. The single judge to whom they applied released the prisoner. They were, however, mistaken in supposing that no appeal lay from the judge's
decision on the question of the trial court's jurisdiction.
The Government prosecuted its appehl and the only issue
presented in that review is the matter of the trial court's
jurisdiction which the Circuit Court of Appeals and we
uphold. In this way, the petitioner and his counsel threw

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
HOLIES -nd BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

263 U. S.

away opportunity for a review of the case on its merits in
the Circuit Court of Appeals and in this Court in their
purpose to make a short cut and secure final release
through the act of a single judge. This is the situation
the petitioner finds himself in and we are without power
to relieve him.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES,

dissenting.

I think that the petitioner's resort to habeas corpus in
this case was right and was the only proper course. Very
possibly some of the cases confuse the principles that
govern jurisdiction with those that govern merits. See
Fauntleroyv. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 235. But I think that
this should be treated as a question of jurisdiction. The
statute puts it as a matter of power, "The said courts
shall have power . . . to punish . . . contempts
of their authority: Provided, That such power to punish
contempts shall not be construed to extend to any cases
except the misbehavior of any person in their presence,
or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration of
justice," etc. Jud. Code, § 268. I think that these words
should be taken literally and that we do not need a better
illustration of the need to treat them as jurisdictional and
to confine the jurisdiction very narrowly than the present
case. For we must not confound the power to punish this
kind of contempts with the power to overcome and punish disobedience to or defiance of the orders of a court,
although unfortunately both are called by the same name.
That of course a court may and should use as fully as
needed, but this, especially if it is to be extended by
decisions to which I cannot agree, makes a man judge in
matters in which he is likely to have keen personal interest
and feeling although neither self-protection nor the duty of
going on with the work requires him to take such a part.
It seems to me that the statute on its face plainly limits.
the jurisdiction of the judge in this class of cases to those

CRAIG v. HECHT.
255

281

HOLMES and BRANDEIS, JJ., dissenting.

where his personal action is necessary in a strict sense in
order to enable him to go on with his work. But wherever
the line may be drawn it is a jurisdictional line. "The
jurisdiction attaches only when the suit presents a
substantial claim under an act of Congress." Blumenstock Brothers Advertising Agency v. Curtis Publishing Co., 252 U. S. 436, 441. Ex parte Hudgings, 249
U. S. 378.
I think that the sentence from which the petitioner
seeks relief was more than an abuse of power. I think
it should be held wholly void. I think in the first place
that there was no matter pending before the Court in
the sense that it must be to make this kind of contempt
possible. It is not enough that somebody may hereafter
move to have something done. There was nothing then
awaiting decision when the petitioner's letter .was published. The English cases show that the law of England
at least is in accord with my view. Metzler v..Gounod,
30 Law Times R., N. S., 264. But if there had been, and
giving the most unfavorable interpretation to all that the
letter says, I do not see how to misstate past matters of
fact of' the sort charged here could be said to obstruct the
administration of justice. Suppose the petitioner falsely
and unjustly charged the judge with having excluded him
from knowledge of the facts, how can it be pretended.
that the charge obstructed the administration of justice
when the judge seemingly was willing to condone it if the
petitioner would retract? Unless a judge while sitting can
lay hold of any one who ventures to publish anything that
tends to make him unpopular or to belittle him I cannot
see what power Judge Mayer had to touch Mr. Craig.
Even if feeling was tense there is no such thing as what
Keating, J., in Metzler v. Gounod calls contingent contempt. A man cannot be summarily laid by the heels
because his words may make public feeling more unfavorable in case the judge should be asked to act at some

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

later date, any more than he can for exciting public feeling
against a judge for what he already has done.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.

SECURITY SAVINGS BANK v. STATE ,OF CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 21.

Submitted October 3, 1923.-Decided November 19, 1923.

1. S:,vings deposits, in a state banking corporation having its place
of business within the State of its creation, are intangible property
subject, like tangible property, to the dominion of the State. P.
285.
2. A state law requiring a bank, through appropriate procedure,
to pay over such deposits, when long unclaimed, to the State as
depositary or by way of escheat, violates no right of the bank
under the contract clause of the Constitution or the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, since the bank's contracts
with the depositors merely give it the use of the money until
called for by proper authority, and payment to the State in obedience to a valid law discharges its obligation to them. Id.
3. The two essentials of jurisdiction in a proceeding by the State to
effect an escheat of such unclaimed deposits, in order that the
depositors may be bound and the bank protected, are seizure of
the res at the beginning pf the suit and reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard accorded the depositors. P. 287.
4. Under the California statutes here involved, seizure of the res
is accomplished by personal service on the bank, in a suit brought
by the Attorney General in Sacramento County, and due notice is
given the depositors by publication in that county of a summons,
with a notice, also, to all other persons to appear and show cause
why. the money should not be deposited with the State Treasurer.
Id.
5. Prooi by affidavit that personal service on depositors is impossible or impracticable is not a constitutional prerequisite to service
by publication in such an escheat proceeding, where the depositors
impleaded are only those who are not known t- Ole bank officials
to be alive, whose accounts have not been added to or drawn

