.22

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Statement of the Case.

263 U. S.

We think it unnecessary to follow the arguments addressed to us into further detail.
Judgment reversed.

DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS,
ETC. v. WECHSLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE KANSAS CITY COURT OF APPEALS, STATE
OF MISSOURI.

No. 70. Argued October 12, 1923.-Decided October 22, 1923.
1. A decision of a state court denying an objection to jurisdiction
.based on a federal regulation, upon the ground that the objection
was waived by the appearance of the party making it, is regxaminable by, this Court. P. 24.
2. Where the Director General of Railroads, being sued upon a cause
of action for personal injuries, in a state court whose practice
permitted uniting a plea to the jurisdiction with a defense on the
merits, pleaded a general denial and also that the court was without jurisdiction because the action was not brought in the proper
county as required by a federal regulation governing the place for
suits against. carriers while under federal control, and his successors, designated by the President under the Transportation Act,
1920, successively entered appearance and adopted the answer
theretofore filed, held, that a decision of the state court, treating
the objection to the jurisdiction as going to the venue of the
cause and as waived by the appearances, could not be Bustained
as a decision disposing of the case on a local ground independent
of the federal question raised. Id.
3. The Transportation Act, 1920, ยง 206, (a), (d), does not invalidate
. a defense good when it was passed. P. 25.
209 Mo. App. 570, reversed.
. CERTIORARI

to a judgment of the Kansas City Court of
Appeals, (the Supreme Court of Missouri having declined
to review,) awarding damages 'to the plaintiff Wechsler,
for personal injuries suffered upon a railroad, while it
was under federal control.

DAVIS v. WECHSLER
22

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Roy B. Thomson, with whom Mr. 0.H. Dean, Mr.
Albert E. Stoll, Mr. H. M. Langworthy and Mr. M. W.
Borders were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. William S. Hogsett, with whom Mr. Murat Boyle
and Mr. Mont T. Prewitt 'were on the briefs, for respondent.
MR. JusTicE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit for personal injuries suffered by the'
plaintiff (the respondent here) upon the Chicago Great
Western Railroad on January 3, 1920, while that road
was under federal control. The suit was brought against
Walker D. Hines, the Director General, on Jan~iary 29,
1920, in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, Missouri.
The cause of action arose in another county and the plaintiff then and when the, suit was brought resided in Illinois. By General Order 18-A it was ordered that "all
suits against carriers while under federal control must
be brought in the county or district where the plaintiff
resided at the time of the accrual of the cause of action
or in the county or district where the cause of action
arose." The defendant pleaded a general denial and also
that the Court was without jurisdiction because of the
foregoing facts. The plaintiff by replication relied upon
the invalidity of the order, a point now decided against
him. Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co. v. Journey, 257
U. S. 111. On February 25, 1921, the plaintiff amended
and John Bartorf Payne, Director General of Railroads
and agent designated by the President under Transportation Act, 1920, was substituted by agreement as successor
of Hines and according to the record the "substituted
defendant entered his appearance in said cause and
adopted the answer theretofore filed by said Walker D.
Hines, defendant." It was not disputed and was stated

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

by the Court below that by Missouri practice the defendant had a right to unite a plea to the jurisdiction
and a defence on the merits, but it was held by the
Court of Appeals, affirming a judgment for the plaintiff,
that the provision in General Order 18-A went only to
the venue of the action and was waived by the appearance of Payne. A similar effect was attributed to the
appearance of the present petitioner Davis in the place
of Payne. A writ of certiorari was denied by the Supreme Court of the State.
We are of opinion that the judgment must be reversed.
Whatever springes the State may set for those who are
endeavoring to, assert rights that the State confers, the
assertion of federal rights, when plainly and reasonably
made, is not to be defeated under the name of local
practice. Even if the order went only to the venue and
not to the jurisdiction of the Court, each Director General in turn plainly indicated that he meant to adopt
the position of his predecessor, and to insist that the
suit was brought in the wrong county. His lawful insistence cannot be evaded by attempting a distinction
between his appearance and his substantially contemporaneous adoption of the plea. Indeed when the law
requires him to unite his defence on the merits, which
imports an appearance pro hac vice, with his preliminary
plea, it is hard to understand how any effect could be
attributed to the statement that he appeared. The state
courts may deal with that as they think proper in local
matters but they cannot treat it as defeating a plain
assertion of federal right. The principle is general and
necessary. Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 22. If
the Constitution And laws of the United States are to be
enforced, this Court cannot accept as fional the decision
of the state tribunal as to what are the facts alleged to
give rise to the right or to bar the assertion of it even
upon local grounds. Creswill v. Grand Ludge Knights of

DIRECTOR GENERAL v. KASTENBAUM.
22

25

Statement of the Case.

Pythias, 225 U. S. 246. This is familiar as to the substantive law and for the same reasons it is necessary to
see that local practice shall not be allowed to put unreasonable obstacles in the way. See American Ry. Express Co. v. Levee, decided this day, ante, 19.
The Transportation Act, 1920, February 28, 1920, c.
91, ยง 206, (a) and (d); 41 Stat. 456, 461, 462, in no way
invalidates a defence good when it was passed.
Judgment reversed.

DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS v. KASTENBAUM.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.

No. 39. Argued October 3, 4, 1923.-Decided November 12, 1923.
Under ยง 10 of the Federal Control Act, an action for false imprisonment may be maintained against the Director General of Railroads
by a person, who, at the instigation of railroad det ?ctives, (agents

of the Director General,) acting without probable cause, was
arrested without warrant for a theft of freight from the railroad
while under federal control. P. 27.
198 App. Div. 966; 199 id. 957, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to the Supreme Court of New York to review a judgment for damages recovered by the respondent
from the petitioner in an action for false imprisonment.
The judgment was affirmed by the Appellate Division and
leave to appeal to the Court of Appeals was denied.

Mr. Thomas R. Wheeler, with whom Mr. Lyman M.
Bass was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Israel G. Holender for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE TAFT

Court.

delivered the opinion of the

