158

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Syllabus.

263 U. S.

What has been said disposes also of the broader contention that the whole deportation proceeding was void
.ab initio, because without the report of Bilokumsky's examination there was lacking probable cause for issuance
of the warrant of arrest. Irregularities on the part of
the Government official prior to, or in connection with,
the arrest would not necessarily invalidate later proceedings in all respects conformable to law. "A writ of
habeas corpus is not like an action to recover damages for
an unlawful arrest or commitment, but its object is to
ascertain whether the prisoner can lawfully be detained in custody; and if sufficient ground for his detention by
the government is shown, he is not to be discharged for
defects in the original arrest or commitment." Nishimura
Ekiu v. 'United States, 142 U. S. 651, 662; lasigi V. Van
de Carr, 166 U. S. 391; Stallings v. Splain, 253 U. S.
339, 343.
Affirmed.
DAVIS, AS AGENT OF THE PRESIDENT, ETC. v.
SLOCOMB, ADMINISTRATRIX OF SLOCOMB.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT. -

No. 530. Motion to dismiss submitted October 1, 1923.-Decided
November 12, 1923.
1. An action for death by negligence, though based on a state
statute, is an action arising under the laws of the United States
when brought .against the Director General of Railroads under
§ 10 of the Federal Control Act or against the Agent designated
as his substitute under the Transportation Act, 1920. P. 160.
2. But, because of the provision of the Federal Control Act forbidding transfer to a federal court of any action not so transferable
prior to the federal control, an action against the Director General
was not removable to the District Court upon the ground that it
arose under that act. P. 160.

DAVIS v. SLOCOMB.
158

Opinion of the Court.

3. And the same limitation exists, by implication, when the action
is brought against the Agent appointed under the Transportation
Act, though the latter act contains no provision relating to removal
of causes. P. 161.
4. Where the only ground for removal of an action against the
Agent was diversity of citizenship, a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming a recovery in the District Court is not
reviewable here by writ of error under Jud. Code, § 241. Id.
Writ of error to review 288 Fed. 352, dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming a judgment of the District Court for the plaintiff in an action for death caused by negligence of a railway under federal control.
Mr. Arthur E. Griffin, for defendant in error, in support
of the motion. Mr. William Martin was also on the brief.
Mr. F. G. Dorety and Mr. Edwin C. Matthias, for
plaintiff in error, in opposition to the motion. Mr.
Thomas Balmer was also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought in 1921 by a citizen of Washington in a court of that State to recover, under a state
statute, for death caused by the negligence of the Great
Northern Railway while under federal control. The Government had surrendered possession February 28, 1920.
The Railway, a Minnesota corporation, and James Cox
Davis, as agent designateq by the President pursuant to
§ 206a of Transportatioii Act 1920, February 28, 1920,
?. 91, 41 Stat. 456, were made defendants. Removal to
the federal court was prayed for, and granted, on the
ground of diversity of citizenship and also on the ground
that the suit was one arising under the laws of the United
States. The District Court ordered that the suit be dismissed as against the Railway; and later entered judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

against Davis. That judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals and is brought here by writ of error
under § 241 of the Judicial Code. Respondent moves to
dismiss the writ of error on the ground that under § 128
the judgment below is final.
The cause of action for a death was created by state
statute. But the case is one arising under the laws of the
United States; for it is only by reason of the federal law
that any suit may be brought against this defendant.
Sonnentheil v. Moerlein Brewing Co., 172 U. S. 401,
404-5; Matter of Dunn, 212 U. S.374. The amount in
controversy exceeds one thousand dollars besides costs.
The ground of removal set out in the petition is both
diversity of citizenship and that the case arises under
federal law. It may, therefore, be brought here under
§ 241 (SouthernPacific Co.v. Stewart, 245 U. S.359, 562),
unless the case is one of those arising under federal law in
which Congress has denied the right of removal to the
federal court, and/or is one of those so arising in which
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals has been
made final. The question presented is - one of construction.
The right to sue the Government for injuries arising
under federal control rests on § 10 of the Federal Control
Act, March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451. MissouriPacific
R.'R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S.554. That section provides
that "Actions at law . . may be brought by and against
such carriers . . as now provided by law;" but that there
shall not be "transferred to a Federal court any action
. . which . . was not so transferable prior to the Federal
control." Therefore, if, during federal control, this suit
had been begun against, the Director General he could
not have removed it to the federal court on the ground
that it is a suit arising under the laws of the United
States; and, since the jurisdiction of the District Court
would have rested wholly on diversity of citizenship, the

DAVIS v. SLOCOMB.
158

Opinion of the Court.

judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals would have
been final. Ujon the termination of federal control it was
necessa.ry to make provision for suits then pending, and
also for such as might thereafter be brought based on
causes of action arising during the period of operation by
the Government. This was done in Transportation Act
1920, by § 206, subdivisions a, b, c, d, and f, which provide; among other-things, that an agent to-be designated
by the President shall be substituted for the Director
General in suits then pending; and that the agenit shall
be made the defendant in suits thereafter commenced.
That act contains no provision relating to the removal
of causes to the federal courts. There is no reason to
suppose that Congress intended to make a change in this
respect and give the right of removal in suits then pending, merely because the representative of the Government was, after February 28,.1920, to be designated agent
and to have limited powers, instead of being the Director
General who possessed broad powers. Nor is any
reason suggested why Congress should have desired to
confer upon such agent larger rights of removal, or of
review by this Court, than had been enjoyed theretofore
by the Director General. In the absence of specific provision to that effect we must assume that Congress intended to leave the law unchanged.
The only ground for removal in this case was diversity
of citizenship. Hence the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is final.
Writ of error dismissed.
74308'-24-11

