BROSNAN v. BROSNAN.
341

Syllabus.

is when as here not only the agent was created but all the
agent's property was acquired and used, for the sole purpose of producing a weapon for the war. This is not like
the case of a corporation having its own purposes as well
as those of the United States and interested in' profit on
its own account. The incorporation and formal erection
of a new personality was only for the convenience of the
United States to cirry out its ends. It is unnecessary to
consider whether the fact that the United States owned all
the stodk and furnished all the property to the corporation
taken by itself would be enough to bring the case within
the policy of the rule that exempts property of the United
Stats. Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U.- S. 151. It
may be that if the United States saw fit to avail itself
of machinery furnished by the State it would not escape
the tax on that ground alone. But when we add the
facts that we have recited we think it too plain for further argument that the tax could not be imposed. See
United States Spruce Production Corporationv. Lincoln
County, 285 Fed. 388; United States v. Coghlan, 261
Fed. 425; King County v. United States Shipping Board
Emergency Fleet Corporation,282 Fed. 950. We answer
the second question, No.
Question 1. Answer, Yes.
Question 2. Answer, No.

BROSNAN, JR., ET AL. v. BROSNAN.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 56. Argued October 8, 1923.-Decided November 26, 1923.
In the District of Columbia, under a caveat to a will, whether filed
before or after the will has been admitted to probate, the burden
of proof on the issue whether the testator at the time of executing
the will was of sound and disposing mind and capable of executing
a valid deed or contract, is upon the caveator. P. 347.

346

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

QuEsTIoN propounded by the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia in a case coming to that court from
the Supreme Court of the District.
Mr. Rudolph H. Yeatman and Mr. Wilton J. Lambert,
with whom Mr. Charles S.Baker was on the briefs, for
Brosnan, Jr., et al.
Mr. W. Gwynn Gardiner, with whom Mr. Abner H.
Ferguson and Mr. J. Wm.Tomlinson were on the briefs,
for Brosnan.
" MR. JUSTICE SAWFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case comes before us, under § 251"of the Judicial
Code, upon the following certificate:
"The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
certifies that the record in this case discloses the following: Timothy Brosnan died in the District of Columbia,
wherein he resided and was domiciled, on May 2, 1919,
leaving a last Will and Testament dated July 29, 1918,
which was duly filed for probate, whereupon his widow
Margaret Brosnan, the appellee here, filed a caveat chdllenging the mental capacity of the decedent. At the
close of the evidence, which was conflicting upon this
point, the proponents of the Will, appellants here, prayed
the court to instruct the jury that on this issue the burden of proof was upon the caveator. The court declined
to so rule but instructed the jury, as requested by the
caveator, that the burden of proof was upon the caveatees
and that, if the jury should *find 'that the evidence is
evenly balanced or that the weight of the evidence is in
favor of finding that the testat6r was of unsound mind,'
the verdict should be against testamentary capacity. The
Court of Appeals certifies that the following question of
law arises upon the record, the decision of which is

BROSNAN v. BROSNAN.
345

347

Opinion of the Court.

necessary for the proper disposition of the case, and, to
the end that a correct result may be reached, desires the
instruction of the Supreme Court of the United States
upon that question, to wit: upon the issue whether the
testator, at the time of the execution of the Will, was
'of sound and disposing mind and capable of executing a valid deed or contract,' is the burden of proof
in the District of Columbia upon the caveator orcaveatee?"
The Code of the District-of Columbia provides for the
probate of a will in solemn form upon.the filing of a
petition and notice to all persons interested inthe estate
by service of citation or publication (§ 130); permits
any party ininterest to file a caveat in opposition to its
probate upon or prior to the hearing (§ 136); and, if
the will be admitted to probate, permits any person in
interest, within a specified time thereafter, to file
a caveat and pray that the probate be revoked (§ 137).
.It is further provided that no will shall -be good
and effectual unless the person making the same be
at the time of its execution of sound and disposing
mind and capable of executing a valid deed or contract
(§ 1625).
The certificate of the Court of Appeals does not show
specifically whether the caveat was filed before or after
the probate of the #ill; but for the purpose of giving
thQ instruction requested as to the rule of law in the
District of Columbia, this is immaterial, whatever may
be the effect of the distinction elsewhere.
The questions as to the burden of proof under a caveatchallenging the mental capacity of' the testator, before
or after the probate of a will, have given rise to much
conflict of opinion in different jurisdictions. It is, however unnecessary to enter into a consideration of these
questions at large, for the reason that the law in the
District of Columbia has been established by the decision

.348

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

of this Court in Leach v. Burr, 188 U. S. 510, 516 (1903).
In that case the will having been offered for probate, a
caveat was filed in opposition. The questions submitted
for consideration on the trial in the Supreme Court of
the District were whether the testator was at the time
of executing the will "of sound mind, capable of executing a valid deed or contract," and whether the will was
procured by threats, menace, and duress, or by fraud.
The trial court directed a verdict against the caveator
and ordered the will to be admitted to probate. Upon
appeal from an affirmance of this order by the Court of
Appeals, this Court, after specifically setting out the
questions submitted for consideration and reviewing the
evidence, especially in reference to the question of the
mental capacity of the testator, said: "Upon questions
of this kind submitted to a jury the burden of proof, in
this District at least, is on the caveators. Dunlop v.
Peter, 1 Cranch C. C. 403. See also Higgins v. Carlton,
28 Maryland, 115, 143; Tyson v. Tyson's Executors, 37
Maryland, 567. The caveators in the present case failed
to sustain this burden, and ,we are of the opinion, that
the trial court did not err in directing a verdict against
them. The judgment is affirmed." 1
This is a specific decision that in the District of Columbia under a caveat filed in opposition to the probate of
a will the burden of proof on an issue as to the mental
capacity of the testator, is upon the caveator. It definitely determines the rule of law in .the District and
completely abrogates such effect, if any, as otherwise
might have attached to the incidental remark in the
previous case of Rich v. Lemmon, 15 App. D. C. 507
'In the Higgins Case it specifically appears that the caveat was
filed before probate of the will; in the Dunlop Case this inferentially
appears; ,and in the Tyson Case it appears that the caveat Was filed
after the will had been admitted to probate.

BROSNAN v. BROSNAN.
345

Opinion of the Court.

(1899), that the "onus of proof" upon such issue was on
the proponent of the will 2
Apart from any question of pleading as to the burden
of allegation, this rule as to the burden of proof rests upon
the ancient presumption in-reference to sanity. Higgin
v. Carlton, supra, p. 141. And viewed from a practical
rather than an academic standpoint, it gives effective
weight to the presumption of the testator's sanity and
obviates the difficulty which would arise if such presumption were treated as one which merely established a prima
faci6 case in favor of the proponent of the will but did
not relieve him from the ultimate burden of persuasion
on the question of the testator's mental capacity, involving a nice distinction tending to confusion in a jury trial.
And for this reason, as well as upon the principle of itare
decis, we have no disposition to modify or change the
law of the District as settled in Leach v. Burr.
And obviously, as the caveator under that law has the
burden, of. proving the want of mental capacity in the
testator before the will has been probated;'he is not relieved of this burden when challenging such capacity in
a proceeding instituted to revoke the probate of a will
after the presumption of the testator's sanity has been
fortified by a decree of probate made in solemn form aftei
notice to the parties in interest.
For the foregoing reasons, in answer to the request of
the Court-of Appeals, it is instructed: That in the District
bf. Columbia, under a caveat to a will challenging the
mental capacity of the testator, wYhether before or after
the will has been admitted to probate, the burden of proof.
! The rule stated in Leach v. Burr seems -at fist to have been
followed, as it should, by the trial courts of the bktrict, as settled
law. See, for example, Re Will ofShelley, 34 Was]h. L. Rep. 801
(1906). But later they seem to have regarded the earlier statement
in Rich v. Lemmon, as controlling. See Re Estate of Robinson, 45
Wash. L. Rep. 760 (1917).

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U: S.

on the issue whether the testator at the time of executing
the will was of sound and disposing mind and capable of
executing .a valid deed or contract, is upon the caveator.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA v. STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
STATE OF OHIO v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
ON REHEARING.

Nos. 15 and 16,*Orig., October Term, 1922. Reargued November 20,
1923.-Decided December 3, 1923.
Decree heretofore made in these cases, reaffirmed, after rehearing.

Mr. John W. Davis and Mr. George E. Alter, Attorney
General of the Commonwealth of Peniisylvania, for
plaintiffs.
Mr. Philip P. Steptoe and Mr. Cqeorge M. Hoffheimer
for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

announced the ruling of

the Court.
An opinion expressing the views of the Court in these
cases was announced at the -last term and a decree was
entered then. 262 U. S. 553, 623.. By the Cour's leave,
given at that term, a petition 'for rehearing was fied.
The cases had been presented in oral argument three
times, but three members of the Court had heard only
the last presentation. This, with the importance of the
questions involved and the public character of the litgants, led the Court to grant the rehearing. It was had
two weeks ago.. The cases have beer considered again in
the light of that presentation, and after this further reflection the Court perceives no ground for disturbing the

