ANDERSON v. CORALL.
Opinion of the Court.

ANDERSON, WARDEN, UNITED STATES PENIKANSAS,
v.
TENTIARY,
LEAVENWORTH,
CORALL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 44. Argued October 4, 1923.-Decided November J2, 1923.
1. Mere lapse of time, without imprisonment or other restraint
contemplated by law, does not constitute service of sentence.
P. 196.
2. Under the Parole Act of June 25, 1910, c. 387, 36 Stat. 819, as
amended January ,23, 1913, c. 9, 37 Stat. 650, where a federal
convict breaks his parole and is retaken under a warden's warrant,
the Board of Parole may revoke his parole at any time before his
sentence has been fully served and require him to complete his
term of imprisonment without deduction for the time spent on
parole. P. 197.
3. With reference to the power of the Board to act as above, time
intervening between the issuance of the warden's warrant and its
execution, during which the federal convict was incarcerated in a
state penitentiary for a state-offense, is not to be counted as time
served under his federal sentence. P. 197.
279 Fed. 822, reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals which affirmed an order of the District Court in
habeas corpus discharging the present respondgnt from
imprisonment in the federal penitentiary at Leavenworth.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Lee Bond, for respondent, submitted.
MR. JUSTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
On November 25, 1914, Corall was convicted of the
crime of breaking into a postoffice and- was sentenced to
74308*-24-----13

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

263 U. S.

be confined in the Leavenworth penitentiary for three
years from that date. He served in prison until February 24, 1916, when he was allowed to go out on parole
under the Act of June 25, 1910, c. 387, 36 Stat. 819, as
amended by the Act of January 23, 1913, c. 9, 37 Stat. 650,
portions of which are printed in the margin.' On June
28, 1916, the warden in accordance with § 4 issued a warrant for the retaking of Corall as a parole violator. Before he was retaken, and in October, 1916, he was convicted at Chicago of another crime and sentenced therefor
to the Illinois state penitentiary at Joilet, where he was
confined until some time- in December, 1919. After his
release from that prison he was retaken, December 17,
'Section* 1 ;s to the effect that prisoners may be released on parole
as provided in the act.
Section 2 provides that the superintendent of prisons of the Department of Justice and the warden and physician of each United States
penitentiary shall constitute a board of parole for such prison which
shall establish rules and regulations foT its procedure subject to the
approval of the Attorney General.
Section 3. "That if it shall appear to said board of parole .
that there is a reasonable probability that such applicant will live and
remain at liberty without violating the laws, and if in the opinion
of the board such release is not incompatible with the welfare of society, then said board of parole may in its discretion authorize the
release of such applicant on parole, and he shall be allowed to go on
parole outside of said prison, and, in the discretion of the board, to
return to his home, upon such terms and conditions, including personal reports from such paroled person, as said board of parole shall
prescribe, and to remain, while on parole, in the legal custody and
under the control of the warden of such prison from which paroled,
and until the expiration of the term or terms specified in his sentence, less such good time allowance as is or may hereafter be provided for by act of Congress; and the said board shall, in every parole,
fix the limits of the residence of the person paroled, which limits may
thereafter be changed in the discretion of the board..
.
Section 4." That if the warden of the prison or penitentiary from
which said prisoner was paroled or said board of parole or any member thereof shall have reliable information that the prisoner has violated his parole, then said warden, at any time within the term or

ANDERSON v. CORALL.
193

Opinion of the Court.

1919, on the warden's warrant to the Leavenworth penitentiary. In January, 1920, the parole board, pursuant
to § 6, took action appropriate to revoke and terminate
the parole. The validity of that action is the only question involved.
Corall claims that, allowing deductions for good'conduct
(Act of June 21, 1902, c. 1140, 32 Stat. 397), the term of
his sentence actually ended before the expiration of three
years from the date it began and on or about March 17,
1917. The warden contends that the time elapsing between February 24, 1916, when he was paroled, and December 17, 1919, when he was retaken, can not be taken
into account; that when the board acted to revoke his
terms of the prisoner's sentence, may issue his warrant to any officer
hereinafter authorized to execute the same, for the retaking of such
prisoner."
Section 5. "That any officer of said prison or any federal officer
authorized to serve criminal process within the United States, to
whom such warrant shall be delivered, is authorized and required- t6
execute such warrant by taking such prisoner and returning him to
said prison within the time specified in said warrant therefor.
Section 6. "That at the next meeting of the board of parole held
at such prison after the issuing of a warrant for the retaking of
any paroled prisoner, said board of parole shall be notified thereof,
and if said prisoner shall have been returned to said prison, he shall
be given an opportunity to appear before said board of parole, and
the said board may then or at any time in its discretion revoke the
order and terminate such parole or modify the terms and conditions
thereof. If such order of parole shall be revoked and the parole so
terminated, the said prisoner shall serve the remainder of the selltence
originally imposed; and the time the prisoner was out on parole
shall not be taken into account to diminish the time for which he was
sentenced."
Section 7 provides for a parole officer for each penitentiary, ind
makes it the duty of such officer to aid paroled prisoners in securing
employment and to visit and exercise supervision over them while
on parole and provides that the supervision of paroled lrisoners may
also be devolved upon the United States marshals when the board
of parole may deem it necessary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1923.
Opinion of the Court.

.
263 U. S.

parole, the sentence had not been served, and he was
bound to serve that part of it which remained unexpired
when parole was granted. February 4, 1921, Corallmade
application for a writ of habeas corpus to the District
Court for the District of Kansas. That court decided he
was illegally held and ordered his discharge. The warden
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals where the judgment was affirmed.
Mere lapse of time without imprisonment or other restraint contemplated by the law does not constitute service of sentence. Escape from prison interrupts service,
and the time elapsing between escape and retaking will
not be taken into account or allowed as a part of the term.
Dolan's Case, 101 Mass. 219, 222; Petition of Moebusj
73 N. I. 350, 352. The parole authorized by the statute
does not suspend service or operate to shorten the term.
While on parole the convict is bound to remain in the legal
custody and under the control of the warden until the
expiration of the term, less allowance, if any, for good
conduct. While this is an amelioration of punishment, it
is in legal effect imprisonment. The sentence and service
are subject to the provision of § 6 that if the parole be
terminated the prisoner shall serve the remainder of the
sentence originally imposed without deduction for the
time he was-out on parole.
Corall's violation of the parole, evidenced by the warden's warrant and his conviction, sentence to and confine.
ment in the Joliet penitentiary, interrupted his service
under the sentence here in question, and was in legal effect
on the same plane as an escape from the custody and control of the warden. His status and rights were analogous
to those of an escaped convict. Drinkall v. Spiegel,
Sheriff, 68 Conn. 441, 449, 450. The term of his sentence
had not expired in October, 1916, when, at Chicago, he
was'convicted of anothe crime and sentenced to the Joliet
penitentiaty. Then-if not earlier-he ceased to be in

TERRACE v. THOMPSON.
193

197

Syllabus.

the legal custody and under the control of the ward[en of
the Leavenworth penitentiary, as required by § 3 of 'the
act and the terms of the parole authorized thereby. His
claim that his term expired in 1917 before he was retaken
and while he was serving sentence at Joliet cannot be
sustained, and we hold that it had not expired in January,
1920, at the time of the action of the board. Under § 6,
the board was authorized at any time during his term of
sentence in its discretion to revoke the order and terminate the parole, and to require him to serve theremainder
of the sentence originally imposed without any allowance
for the time he was out on parole.
The judgment of the Circuit Court 'of Appeals is
reversed, and the case is remanded to the District Court
with directions that the respondent, Arthur Corall, be
restored to the custody of the warden of the Tnited
States penitentiaryat Leavenworth, Kansas.

TERRACE ET AL. v. THOMPSON, ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No.' 29.

Argued April 23, 24, .19I.--Dccided November 12, 1923.

1. A Washington statute (c. 50, Laws 1921,) disqualifies aliens who
have not in good faith declared intention to become citizens of'
the United States from taking or holding interests in land -in
the State for farming or other purposes not excepted, and provides that upon the making of such prohibited conveyance the
land shall be forfeited to the State and the grantors be subject to
criminal punislment, and the alien also, if he fail to disclose the
nature and extent of his interest. Citizens owning land in Washington and an alien Japanese, desirous of' consummating a lease
to the alien for farming, sued to.enjoin the state'attorney general
from taking criminal and forfeiture proceedings, as he threatened

