OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

to a title resting upon the wrongful taxation of land while
both the legal and the equitable title were in the United
States, said:
"Confessedly, though a formal certificate of location
was issued in 1858, there was then in fact no payment for
the land and the government received nothing until 1888.
During these intervening years whatever might have
appeared upon the face of the record the legal and the
equitable title both remained in the government. The
land was, therefore, not subject to state taxation. Tax
sales and tax deeds issued during that time were void.
The defendant took nothing by such deeds. No estoppel
can be invoked against the plaintiff. His title dates from
the time of payment in 1888. The defendant does not
hold under him and has no tax title arising subsequently
thereto."
For these reasons we hold that the Supreme Court of
the State erred in sustaining the tax title.
Reversed.

TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY v.
MILLER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 831.

Submitted April 17, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

The protection of charter rights by the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution is subject to the rule that a legislature cannot bargain
away the police power, or withdraw from its successors the power
to guard the public safety, health and morals.
A provision in its charter exempting a railroad company from liability
for death of employ~s, even if caused by its own negligence, does not

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. MILLER.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

amount to an irrevocable contract within the protection of the
Federal Constitution, but is as much subject to future legislative
action as though embodied in a separate statute.
Provisions in a corporate charter which are beyond the power of the
legislature to grant are not within the protection of the contract
clause of the Federal Constitution.
Where there is no allegation or proof that the highest court of a State
has construed a statute of that State, it becomes the duty of the
courts of another State, which do not take judicial knowledge
of decisions of other States, to construe the statute and its effect
upon prior statutes according to their independent judgment.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36.
The decision of a state court construing a statute of another State
under such circumstances is not subject to review by this court if
no Federal right is involved. Eastern Building & Loan Assn. v.
Ebaugh, 185 U. S. 114.
This court will not disturb the decision of the courts of Texas that the
act of Louisiana of 1884, giving a right of action to relatives of persons killed by negligence of another, repealed the provisions in the
charter of a railroad company granted in 1878 exempting it from
liability for a person killed by its negligence; and the act of 1884 is
not unconstitutional as impairing any contract obligation in such
charter.
An omission in the complaint can be cured by an allegation in the
answer. United States v. Morris, 10 Wheat. 246.
Where an action is commenced in the courts of one State, based on a
right given by the statute of another State provided it be commenced
within a specified period, which has not expired, the omission of the
plaintiff to plead the statute may be cured by the defendant pleading the statute, although the answer may not be filed until after the
period of limitation has expired; and the decision of the state court
to that effect does not violate the full faith and credit clause of the
Federal Constitution, and involves no Federal question.
128 S. W. Rep. 1165, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of certain
acts of Louisiana, and their constitutionality under the
contract clause of the Constitution and whether the courts
of Texas, in construing them, had failed to give them full

faith and credit as required by the Constitution, are stated
in the opinion.

OCTOfOER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

221 U. S.

Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. H. M. Garwood
and Mr. A. L. Jackson were on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error:
The immunity provision in ยง 17 of the incorporating
act of the Louisiana Western Railroad Company was
specially set up by plaintiffs in error as a valid public act
of the State of Louisiana, and the decisions of the state
courts of Texas were adverse to this contention and necessarily failed to give full faith and credit to that portion
of a public act, within the meaning of the Constitution
of the United States.
The refusal to consider a controlling Federal question
is equivalent to a decision against the Federal right involved. Des Moines Nay. Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co.,
123 U. S. 552.
The state court by its decision necessarily adjudicated
the defense which was claimed under the state act. El
Paso & N. E. Ry. Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 90; Wabash
Railroadv. Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 38, 44; A., T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U. S. 55; Land & Water Co. v.
San Jose Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 179; PhiladelphiaFireAssn.
v. New York, 119 U. S. 110, 139; Murdock v. Memphis,
20 Wall. 590; Mallett v. North Carolina,181 U. S. 588.
The immunity provision contained in ยง 17 was a contract within the meaning of the impairment clause of the
Constitution. Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Miller, 132
U. S. 75; Southwestern Railroad Co. v. Paulk, 24 Georgia,
356; Duncan v. Pennsylvania RailroadCo., 94 Pa. St. 443.
The fact that the Texas court took cognizance of this
case and undertook to apply the Louisiana statute conferring this right of action for injuries resulting in death
implies the conception of that court that the Louisiana
act was not in the nature of a police regulation, for the
statutory right of action in Texas for injuries resulting in
death awards damages only to certain designated relatives and strictly as compensation, and not upon principles

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. MILLER.
221 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

of public policy. I. & G. N. Ry. Co. v. McDonald, 75
Texas, 46; Hays v. Railway Co., 46 Texas, 272; Railway
Co. v. Moore, 69 Texas, 157; Railway Co. v. Garcia, 62
Texas, 292; Railway Co. v. Cowser, 57 Texas, 293; Railway
Co. v. Kindred, 57 Texas, 491. Assuming that the Louisiana act did not award damages on the same principles
and theory of the Texas act there would have been an
insurmountable obstacle to the recognition and enforcement of the Louisiana act by the courts of Texas on principles of comity. Railway Co. v. Jackson, 89 Texas, 107;
DeHarn v. Railway Co., 86 Texas, 71; Railway Co. v.
McCormick, 71 Texas, 660. If the Louisiana act of 1884
was penal, it would not be transitory and therefore not
enforcible in the courts of other States. Boston & Maine
R. R. Co. v. Hurd, 108 Fed. Rep. 116; Higgins v. Central
N. E. & W. Ry. Co., 155 Massachusetts, 176; Nelson v.
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 88 Virginia, 971.
Article 2315 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, as amended
by the act of 1884, created a right of action for injuries
resulting in death and by its own language made it enforcible only for the period of one year from the death.
The transition from the case in plaintiffs' petition as
fixed by its allegations alone, to the case made by a declaration upon the Louisiana statutory right of action in
favor of the survivors mentioned for injuries resulting
in death, as claimed to be the effect of the filing of the
answers of defendants more than two years after the death,
involved such a departure from law to law as to amount
to the institution of a new and different cause of action.
Railway Co. v. Wyler, 158 U. S. 285, 298; Lumber Co. v.
Water Works Co., 94 Texas, 456; Whalen v. Gordon, 95
Fed. Rep. 314; Anderson v. Wetter, 15 L. R. A. (N. S.)
1003; Boston & Maine R. R. Co. v. Hurd, 108 Fed. Rep.
116; 1 Ency. of P1. & Pr., pp. 569, 570.
In this case the right of action in favor of the survivors
under the Louisiana statute obtained for a period of one

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

year from the death and the right of action therefor lapsed
and terminated without the commencement of an action
upon it within that period, and could not thereafter exist
as a right potential or enforcible anywhere. Boyd v. Clark,
8 Fed. Rep. 849; Whalen v. Gordon, 95 Fed. Rep. 319;
Theroux v. Railway Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 84; Munos v. So.
Pac. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 188; The Harrisburg, 119 U. S.
199; Davis v. Mills, 194 U. S. 451, 457.
In fact there is no longer even a prima facie right of
action as basis for recovery and the rule requiring the
ordinary statute of limitation to be pleaded in order to
avail as a defense is not called for and does not apply.
19 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed., 150, 151; 13 Ency.
of P1. & Pr., 186, 187, and note 1; 25 Cyc. 1020, 1403.
The state courts having considered and adopted the
Louisiana statute as the indispensable basis for the judgment and this solely through the medium of the defendant's pleading which was filed more than two years after
the death, on the theory that such pleading when so filed
became available as a declaration in behalf of the plaintiffs below, could not ignore the provision of that same
act fixing and limiting the period of the right created
without involving necessarily a refusal to give full faith
and credit to the act. Des Moines Nay. Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552; Land & Water Co. v. San Jose
Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 179-181; PhiladelphiaFire Assn. v.
New York, 119 U. S. 110, 129.
Mr. J. W. Parker for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In that view of it which must be accepted here, this
case may be stated as follows: It was an action to recover
damages for the death of a locomotive engineer, resulting

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. MILLER.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from the derailment of an engine which he was driving
while in the service of two railroad companies which were
jointly operating a line of railroad through the States of
Louisiana and Texas. The derailment and ensuing death
occurred in Louisiana, June 1, 1905, and proximately
were caused by the negligence of the two companies.
One of the companies was incorporated by a Louisiana
statute of March 30, 1878, which contained a provision
exempting the company from liability for the death of
any person in its service, even if caused by its negligence.
Laws of Louisiana, 1878, No. 21, ยง 17, p. 267. Another
Louisiana statute, enacted July 10, 1884, and still in force,
conferred upon designated relatives a right to recover the
damages sustained by them through the death of a person
negligently caused by another, but subjected the right
to the limitation that the action to enforce it should be
begun within one year from the death. Laws of Louisiana,
1884, No. 71, p. 94. Merrick's Revised Civil Code, Art.
2315. Within the time so prescribed the relatives so
designated commenced in the District Court of Harris
County, Texas, an action to recover from the two railroad
companies the damages sustained by the engineer's death.
The complaint, although stating all the facts essential to
a recovery under the statute, was defective as a complaint
in the Texas court, because it did not conform to the rule
prevailing in that State that statutes of other States cannot be noticed judicially, but must be pleaded. More
than a year after the death the defendants answered the
complaint, and in their answers recognized the existence of
the statute upon which the plaintiffs' action was founded,
made allegations respecting it, and sought to enforce the
one year limitation therein. At the trial the statutes of
1878 and 1884 were both duly proved, and upon all the
evidence the finding and judgment were for the plaintiffs.
The defendants appealed to the Court of Civil Appeals
of the State, where the judgment was affirmed (128 S. W.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Rep. 1165), and then sued out this writ of error. In the
trial court, and again in the Court of Civil Appeals, it was
held (1) that the exempting provision in the statute of
1878 was repealed by the statute of 1884, and (2) that
what appeared in the answers respecting the statute of
1884 cured the defect in the complaint and required that
it be treated as an adequate and timely assertion of a
right under that statute. In the assignments of error
here these rulings are challenged upon the theory, which
also was advanced in the state courts, that the exempting
provision in the statute of 1878 was a contract and could
not be repealed consistently with the contract clause of
the Federal Constitution, and that, if that provision was
validly repealed by the statute of 1884, the answers filed
more than a year after the death could not be treated as
curing the defect in the complaint without disregarding
the one year limitation and thereby violating the full
faith and credit clause of the Constitution.
The case is now before us on a motion to dismiss, with
which is united a motion to affirm.
The doctrine that a corporate charter is a contract which
the Constitution of the United States protects against
impairment by subsequent state legislation is ever limited
in the area of its operation by the equally well settled
principle that a legislature can neither bargain away the
police power nor in any wise withdraw from its successors
the power to take appropriate measures to guard the
safety, health and morals of all who may be within their
jurisdiction. Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25;
FertilizingCo. v. Hyde Park, Id. 659; Stone v. Mississippi,
101 U. S.814; Douglas v. Kentucky, 168 U. S. 488. In
the first of these cases it was said:
"Whatever differences of opinion may exist as to the
extent and boundaries of the police power, and however
difficult it may be to render a satisfactory definition of it,
there seems to be no doubt that it does extend to the

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. MILLER.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

protection of the lives, health, and property of the citizens,
and to the preservation of good order and the public
morals. The legislature cannot, by any contract, divest
itself of the power to provide for these objects. They belong emphatically to that class of objects which demand the
application of the maxim salus populi suprema lex; and
they are to be attained and provided for by such appropriate means as the legislative discretion may devise. That
discretion can no more be bargained away than the power
itself."
The fact that the provision in question was embodied
in the statute incorporating the Louisiana company does
not suffice to show that it became a part of the charter
contract, for obviously nothing became a part of that
contract that was not within the contracting power of
the legislature. Such of the provisions of the statute as
were within that power became both a law and a contract
and were within the protection of the contract clause of
the Constitution, but such of them as were not within that
power became a law only and were as much subject to
amendment or repeal as if they had been embodied in a
separate enactment. As was said by this court in Stone v.
Mississippi, supra, "It is to be kept in mind that it is not
the charter which is protected, but only any contract the
charter may contain."
The subject to which the provision in question relates
is the civil liability of a railroad company for the death of
its employds resulting from its negligence. That is a
matter of public concern, and not of mere private right.
It is closely connected with the safety of the employ6s
and undoubtedly belongs to that class of subjects over
which the legislature possesses a regulatory but not a
contracting power. Manifestly, therefore, the charter
contract did not embrace that provision and the contract
clause of the Constitution did not prevent its repeal.
There is some discussion in the briefs as to whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

provision was repealed by the statute of 1884, which was
in apparent conflict with it, but upon this record that is
not a Federal question. There was neither allegation nor
proof that the court of last resort in Louisiana had considered the question or made any ruling upon it, and so
it became the duty of the Texas courts, which do not take
judicial notice of decisions of courts of other States, to
decide the question according to their independent judgment. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218
U. S. 36, 52. This they did and, no Federal right being
involved, their decision is not subject to review by this
court. Eastern Building and Loan Assn. v. Ebaugh, 185
U. S. 114.
Of the ruling that the defect in the complaint was cured
by the answers little need be said. While recognizing
that the right created by the Louisiana statute was qualified by the one year limitation and that the Texas courts
could not disregard the qualification without impinging
upon the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution,
we think the claim that they did disregard it is quite
untenable. The action was begun within the time prescribed, and what the Texas courts really held was that
the omission from the complaint of an essential allegation
was cured by its inclusion in the answers. In so holding
they but gave effect to a generally recognized rule upon
the subject. United States v. Morris, 10 Wheat. 246, 286.
There was no shifting from one right of action to another,
as in Union Pacific Railway Co. v. Wyler, 158 U. S. 285,
and United States v. Dalcour, 203 U. S. 408, 423, but, on
the contrary, an adherence to the right originally asserted.
In these circumstances nothing more was involved than
a question of pleading and practice in the Texas courts,
and its decision by them is final.
Although regarding the question presented under the
contract clause of the Constitution as sufficiently substantial to sustain our jurisdiction, we think it is so mani-

TEXAS & N. 0. R. R. CO. v. GROSS.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fest that it was decided rightly by the Texas courts that
the case ought not to be retained for further argument.
See Arrowsmith v. Harmoning, 118 U. S. 194; Richardson
v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 169 U. S. 128; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218 U. S. 36, 49.
The motion to dismiss is denied, and that to affirm is
granted.

Affirmed.
TEXAS & NEW ORLEANS RAILROAD COMPANY v.
GROSS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 832.

Submitted April 17, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Decided on authority of Texas & New Orleans R. R. Co. v. Miller, ante,.
p. 408.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Maxwell Evarts, with whom Mr. H. M. Garwood
and Mr. A. L. Jacks6n were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. J. W. Parker for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a companion case with Texas & New Orleans R.
R. Co. v. Miller, just decided, ante, p. 408, and arose out of
the derailment of the same engine. It took substantially
the same course in the state courts, (128 S. W. Rep. 1173)
and presents substantially the same questions.
For the reasons given in the other case, the motion to
dismiss is denied, and that to affirm is granted.
Affirmed.
27
VOL. CCXXI-

