OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

dent with its enactment, and the rights which have been
acquired under the practice, make it determinately persuasive.
We are constrained, therefore, to reverse the order of
the District Court sustaining the demurrer and remand
the case for further proceedings.
Reversed.

WEST, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA, v. KANSAS NATURAL GAS COMPANY.
APEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 916. Argued April 4, 5, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

.When a State recognizes an article to be a subject of interstate commerce it cannot prohibit that article from being the subject of interstate commerce; and so held that corporations engaged in interstate
commerce cannot be excluded from transporting from a State oil and
gasproduced therein and actually reduced to possession.
In matters of foreign and interstate commerce there are no state lines;
in such commerce instead of the States a new power and a new welfare appears that transcend the power and welfare of any State.
The welfare of the United States is constituted of the welfare of all the
States, and that of the States is made greater by mutual division of
their resources; this is the purpose and result of the commerce
cause of the Constitution.
Natural gas and oil when reduced to possession by the owner of the
land are commodities belonging to him subject to his right of sale
tOiereof, and are subjects of both intrastate and interstate comn erce

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

221 U. S.

There is a distinction between the police power of the State to regulate
the taking of a natural product,such as natural gas, and prohibiting
that product from transportation in interstate commerce. The
former is within, and the latter is beyond, the power of the State.
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, distinguished.
A State does not have the same ownership in natural gas and oil after
the same have been reduced to possession as it does over the flowing
waters of its rivers. Riparian owners have no title to the water
itself as a commodity. Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209
U. S. 349, distinguished.
The right to engage in interstate commerce is not the gift of a State;
nor can a State regulate or restrain such commerce, or exclude from
its limits a corporation engaged therein.
Inaction by Congress in regard to a subject of interstate commerce is
a declaration of freedom from state interference.
Where a State grants the use of its highways to domestic corporations
engaged in intrastate commerce in a commodity it cannot deny the
same use, under the same restrictions, to foreign corporations engaged in interstate commerce in the same commodity; and so held
that the statute of Oklahoma prohibiting foreign corporations from
building pipe lines across highways and transporting natural gas
therein to points outside the State is unconstitutional as an int*.ference with, and restraint upon, interstate commerce, and as a
deprivation of property without due process of law.
172 Fed. Rep. 545, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute of Oklahoma restricting interstate commerce in
oil and natural gas, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles West, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, and Mr. Charles B. Ames for appellant:

The act of 1907-1908, as well as the supplementary
legislation of 1909, is within the proper police power of
the State.

The ruling principle is conservation, not commerce,
and the due process clause is the single issue. Consumers'
Gas Co. v. Harless, 29 N. E. Rep. 1062; N. W. Tel.-Ex.
Co. v. St. Charles, 154 Fed. Rep. 386; Western UionTel.

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

Co. v. Penna. R. R. Co., 195 U. S. 540; Wilson v. Hudson
County W. Co., 76 Atl. Rep. 560.
A justifiable taking of property overrules other principles. Peculiar mineralogical character of oil, gas and
water, likewise also justify such taking. Clark v. Nash,,
198 U. S. 361; Strickley v. Highland Boy Min. Co., 200
U. S. 527; Offield v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 203 U. S.
372; Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311; Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S.
190; Lindsley v. Nat. Carb. Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61; Katz v.
Walkinshaw (Cal.), 64 L. R. A. 236; Hudson Co. W. Co.
v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 281; Kansas v. Colorado, 185
U. S. 125.
Special climatic conditions justify taking for public
use, as do also special topographical conditions.
States may restrain the reckless use of natural resources.
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 397.
For instances of conservation upheld though other
rights thereby limited, see McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S.
391; Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240; Geer v.
Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519; Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177
U. S. 190; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; Manigault
v. Springs, 199 U. S. 473; Georgia v. Tennessee Co., 206
U. S. 230; Hudson Co. W. Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349;
N. Y. ex rel. Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31; Lindsley v.
Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61; Mfgs. Co. v.
Indiana Co., 50 L. R. A. 134; Consumers' Co. v. Harless,
29 N. E. Rep. 1062; Townsend v. State, 47 N. E. Rep. 19;.
Given v. State, 66 N. E. Rep. 750; State v. Ohio Co., 49
N. E. Rep. 809; Jamieson v. Indiana Co., 128 Indiana,
555; Wilson v. Hudson Co., 76 Atl. Rep. 560; Welch v"
Swasey, 193 Massachusetts, 364; Wadleigh v. Gilman, 12
Maine, 403; Salem v. Maynes, 123 Massachusetts, 372;
Am. Point. Wks. v. Lawrence, 23 N. J. L. 9; Mugler
v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Korasek v. Peter, 50 L. R. A.
345; Smith v. Morse, 148 Massachusetts, 407; St. Louis v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

221 U. S.

Gault, 179 Missouri, 8; Summerville v. Presley, 33 S. Car.
56; Katz v. Walkinshaw, 64 L. R. A. 236; Ex parte Elam,
91 Pac. Rep. 811; Windsor v. State, 64 Atl. Rep. 288;
Questions & Answers, 103 Maine, 506; Commonwealth v.
Tewksbury, 11 Metc. 55.
There is no right to unlimited use of oil, gas, or water
under land except for use connected with land. Forbell v.
New York, 164 N. Y. 522; Hathorn v. Nat. Carb. Co., 87
N. E. Rep. 504.
The act is valid as an exercise of the State's police power
in its control over the use of its highways for transportation purposes. The State's highways are its public property. St. Louis v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92, 101;
Atty. Gen. v. Shrewsbury Bridge Co., 21 Chanc. Div. 752;
Richmond v. Southern Bell Tel. Co., 174 U. S. 746; Memphis v. Postal Tel. Cable Co., 139 Fed. Rep. 707; 3 Elliott
on Railroads, 2d ed., § 1076.
The right to use the highways in maintaining a gas
pipe line,-a permanent plant,-is a franchise. Gas Light
Co. v. Laclede Co., 115 U. S. 650; Foster Lbr. Co. v. A. V.
& W. Ry. Co., 20 Oklahoma, 583; S. C., 100 Pac. Rep.
1110; State v. Cincinnati Gas Light Co., 18 Oh. St. 262;
Gibbs v. Consolidated Gas Co., 130 U. S. 396; Jersey City
Gas Co. v. Dwight, 29 N. J. Eq. 242, 248; Purnell v. McLane, 56 Atl. Rep. 830; Pittsburg &c. R. R. Co. v. Hood,
94 Fed. Rep. 618; Hardman v. Cabot, 55 S. E. Rep. 756;
Ward v. Trifle St. Nat. Gas Co., 74 S. W. Rep. 709.
This being true the right must either be acquired by
grant or by condemnation. Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S.
400; Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati, 76 Fed. Rep. 296,
308.
The right has not been granted by the State, and the
appellees do not assert any right by grant.
The right of eminent domain is not granted to foreign
corporations. This right may be lawfully granted to
domestic corporations and withheld from foreign. Beale

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

on Foreign Corporations, § 115; State v. Scott, 22 Nebraska,
628; Trestor v. Missouri Pac. R. R. Co., 23 Nebraska, 242;
State v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 25 Nebraska, 156; Keonig v.
C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 27 Nebraska, 699; Holbert v. St. L.
&c. R. R. Co., 45 Iowa, 23; Evansiville &c. Co. v. Hudson
Bridge Co., 141 Fed. Rep. 51; Foltz v. St. L. & S. F. R. R.
Co., 60 Fed. Rep. 316.
The right of eminent domain for purposes of interstate
commerce might be granted by the United States. Beale
on Foreign Corporations, § 115, note; Union Pac. R. R. Co.
v. B. & M. R. R. Co., 3 Fed. Rep. 106. But the United
States have not granted it for the purpose here involved.
The right claimed by appellees being a franchise and
not having been granted either by the State or the United
States cannot be exercised without condemnation and as
the power of eminent domain has neither been granted by
the State nor by the United States, the right cannot be
acquired by condemnation. Therefore the appellees have
not the right by the State's volition, nor have they the
power to take it without the State's volition.
The appellees claim the right by grant from the owners
of the abutting land.
For highway purpose, including all transportation, the
State has control regardless of the fee, Barney v. Keokuk,
94 U. S. 324, and the abutter cannot grant the right to
appellees. State v. Kansas Nat. Gas Co. (Kan.), 80 Pac.
Rep. 962; M. & E. R. Co. v. Mayor, 10 N. J. Eq. 352;
Young v. Harrison, 6 Georgia, 130; Dyer v. Tuskaloosa
Bridge Co., 2 Porter (Ala.), 296; Lewis on Eminent
Domain, §§ 91c-91l, 3d ed., §§ 117-128.
The State's control of transportation is superior to the
right of the abutter. Sauer v. New York, 206 U. S. 536,
548; Cheney v. Barker, 84 N. E. Rep. 492; Snively v.
Washington, 218 Pa. 249.
The State having control of the public highways may
grant privileges to its own citizens and refuse them to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellees.

221 U. S.

others, including foreign corporations, the same as it may
do in regard to eminent domain. McCready v. Virginia,
94 U. S. 391; Consumers' Gas Co. v. Harless (Ind.), 29
N. E. Rep. 1062.
The act is valid as an exercise of the State's police power
in creating and controlling its own corporations. Noble
State Bank v. Haskcell, 219 U. S. 104.
If banking, which has always been regarded as a common right, can be confined to corporations, it seems clear
that constructing a permanent plant in the highway,
which has always been regarded as a franchise, can be
confined to corporations.
The appellees not being domestic corporations, therefore, have not the right to construct gas pipe lines in
Oklahoma, and therefore are not affected by the provisions of the law restricting domestic corporations in the
conduct of their business, and therefore have no right to
complain of the law or any of its provisions. Hatch v.
Reardon, 204 U. S. 153; Lee v. State, 207 U. S. 67; Dolly v.
Abilene Nat. Bank, 179 Fed. Rep. 461.
The act does not regulate interstate commerce but only
affects it indirectly, just as it might be affected by the
denial of the right of eminent domain to foreign corporations or the refusal to grant a city franchise to an interstate pipe line company or an interstate telephone company. N. W. Tel. Exch. Co. v. St. Charles, 154 Fed. Rep.
386; Consumers' Gas Co. v. Harless (Ind.), 29 N. E. Rep.
1062; Wilson v. Hudson Co. Water Co. (N. J.), 76 Atl.
Rep. 560, 566, 567.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. D. T. Watson, with whom
Mr. E. L. Scarritt and Mr. John J. Jones were on the
brief, for appellees:
The police power of a State does not authorize conservation in the sense of prohibiting the sale of lawful articles of private property in the interest of the general

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

public or the people, who have no proprietary interests
therein.
When the legislature prohibits the sale of private property for the sole and only purpose of providing a future
supply of fuel for the public, it is appropriating private
property for public use and compensation must be made.
Missouri Pacific Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403, 417;
Willett v. People, 117 Illinois, 294, 303, 305; People ex rel.
Goff v. Kirk, 136 N. Y. App. Div. 45; Sweet v. Rechel, 159
U. S. 380, 398, 399.
The Mineral Springs decisions in New York can be
distinguished, except as the Court of Appeals applied the
rule of the common law in regard to the right of landowners in subterranean waters, and held that prohibitions
as such diminished most of the rights which the landowners had at common law, and were unconstitutional. People
v. Natural CarbonicAcid Co., 196 N. Y. 421.
The owner of natural gas has the constitutional right
to sell his gas in the most favorable market. Slaughter
House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 127; Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana,
177 U. S. 190; Manufacturers' Gas Co. v. Indiana Nat. Gas
Co., 156 Indiana, 679.
The cases cited by appellant, in which statutes deal
with game, waters of streams and the atmosphere, proceed upon a wholly different principle.
The right of a citizen of the United States to carry on
interstate commerce is a privilege guaranteed by the
Federal Constitution, and is enjoyed without distinction
by corporations engaged in interstate commerce as well
as individuals. Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 57;
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 21; Vance
v. W. A. Vandercook Co., 170 U. S. 438, 455; Pullman
Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 56, 69; Reidv. Colorado, 187 U. S.
137, 151; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.
196, 204; Stockton v. Baltimore & New York R. R. Co., 32
Fed. Rep. 9, 14; Pembina Mining Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellees.

221 U. S.

U. S. 181, 190; Norfolk & Western R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114, 118; Horn Silver Mining Co. v. New
York, 143 U. S. 305, 314.
Congress has expressly declared that natural gas is a
lawful subject of commerce and has made provision authorizing the transportation of the same in pipe lines.
Acts of March 11, 1904, c. 505, 33 Stat. 65; June 16,
1906, 34 Stat. 267.
An attempt by a State to select the articles of commerce which may or may not enter into interstate trade,
or prohibit any article of commerce located in the State
from so doing, is a regulation of commerce which is void.
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 108; Mobile County v.
Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; Welton v. State of Missouri,
91 U. S. 275, 279; Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 140;
Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 469, 470; Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, 12, 13.
A state statute prohibiting the exportation of private
property out of the State is void as an attempt to regulate
interstate commerce. Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S. 137,
151; Crandall v. State of Nevada, 6 Wall. 35; Hall v. DeCuir, 95 U. S. 485, 488; Cooke on the Commerce Clause,
§ 61; Corwin v. Indiana Oil & Gas Co., 120 Indiana, 575;
Manufacturers' Gas Co. v. Indiana Natural Gas Co., 155
Indiana, 545; Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190, 205;
Benedict v. Columbus Company, 49 N. J. Eq. 23; Cooley
on Const. Lim., 7th ed., 858; Jackson Mining Co. v.
Auditor General, 32 Michigan, 488; MacNaughton Co. v.
McGirl, 20 Montana, 124.
A State may not exercise its police powers in such a
manner as to prohibit or directly interfere with interstate
commerce. Brennan v. Titusville, 153 U. S. 289, 302;
Railroad Co. v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465, 471; Guy v. Baltimore,
100 U. S. 434, 443; Morgan v. Louisiana, 118 U. S. 455,
464; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 108. See to the same
effect: Henderson v. Mayor, 92 U. S. 618, 626; Schallen-

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

berger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, 12; Missouri,Kansas &
Texas Ry. Co. v. Huber, 169 U. S. 618, 626; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210; Jacobson v. Massachusetts, 197 U. S.
12, 25; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 558.
In all commercial regulations the United States form
a single nation. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 413,
414; The Chinese Exclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581, 604;
Downes v. Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 377; Legal Tender Cases,
12 Wall. 533; Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, 43; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, 492.
The real purpose of the Oklahoma statute in requiring
a charter right to cross a highway is to prevent the transportation of natural gas out of the State-to do indirectly
what cannot be done directly. Collins v. New Hampshire, 171 U. S. 30, 34; Ch. 67, Laws of Oklahoma.
To require as a condition to obtaining the privilege of
crossing the highways the surrender of the constitutional
right to engage in interstate commerce is in violation of
the Federal Constitution, and renders the requirement of
permission to cross highways unconstitutional and void.
West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1; Barron v. Burnside, 121 U. S. 186, 200; Pullman Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S.
56, 62.
The effect of the Oklahoma statute in granting the right
to cross the highways freely for intrastate transportation,
but denying that right absolutely for interstate transportation, is a direct and positive discrimination against
interstate commerce in violation of the Federal Constitution. A State cannot prohibit a corporation, which has
acquired the right of way by purchase from abutting
owners, from constructing or operating its pipe lines across
and beneath its highways for the purpose of interstate
commerce. West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1, 26;
Norfolk & Western R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114,
120; Pensacola Tel. Co. v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1, 9;
Escanaba v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678, 689.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellees.

221 U. S.

The right of Oklahoma in its public highways is a mere
easement.
The appellees may lay their pipe lines along the private
right of way purchased and cross underneath the surface
of the highway adjoining.
Under the common law as declared in the Federal decisions the abutting landowner has title to the soil beneath a public highway, and the public have merely a
right of passage. Olcott v. The Supertisors, 16 Wall. 678,
697; Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367, 421; United States v.
Harris, 1 Sumn. 21; Barclay v. Howell, 6 Pet. 498, 513;
Lyman v. Arnold, 5 Mason, 195.
The common-law rule prevails in Oklahoma. Mott v.
Eno, 181 N. Y. 346, 363; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Krueger,
36 Ind. App. 348, 369.
Natural gas is not the property of the State. Oil Co. v.
Indiana, 177 U. S. 190.
An owner of land has not merely the right to reduce
to possession, but the actual title to, the natural gas in his
lands, so long as the gas does not escape into the lands of
other owners. Brown v. Spillman, 155 U. S. 665, 669.
Oil and gas do not differ in respect of the rights of the
public from coal, iron ore and other like substances; they
are property when in place and when reduced to possession; they may be sold even while in place and like coal,
iron ore and other minerals, and two distinct estates may
be created by the owner, both in absolute fee simple, one
in the oil and gas in place and the other in the surface and
remainder of the earth, in the same manner precisely as
title is sometimes acquired by one man in the veins and
deposits of coal, limestone, iron ore, lead, zinc and all
other like solid substances separate and apart from the
remainder of the soil or earth. We submit the correctness
of all this is shown conclusively by the following authorities: Thornton on Oil and Gas, §§ 18, 19, 20; White on
Mines and Mining Remedies, § 162, p. 223; Snyder on

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mines, § 1170, p. 954; Funk v. Haldeman, 53 Pa. St. 248;
Stoughton's Appeal, 88 Pa. St. 198; Blakeley v. Marshall,
174 Pa. St. 429; Gill v. Weston, 110 Pa. St. 312; Gas Co. v.
DeWitt, 130 Pa. St. 235; ChartiersBlock Coal Co. v. Mellon,
152 Pa. St. 286; Hague v. Wheeler, 157 Pa. St. 324; Murray
v. Allred, 100 Tennessee, 100; Moore v. Griffin, 72 Kansas,
164; Isom v. Rex Crude Oil Co., 147 California, 659;
Ontario Natural Gas Co. v. Smart, 19 Ont. Rep. 591;
Ontario Natural Gas Co. v. Gossfield, 18 Ont. App. 666;
Hughes v. Pipe Lines, 119 N. Y. 423; Williamson v. Jones,
39 W. Va. 231; South Penn Oil Co. v. McIntire, 44 W. Va.
296; Carter v. Tyler County Court, 45 W. Va. 806; Williamsonv.Jones, 43 W. Va. 562; Wilson v. Youst, 43 W. Va.
826; Preston v. White, 57 W. Va. 278; Kelley v. Ohio Oil
Co., 57 Oh. St. 317; Gas Co. v. Ullery, 68 Oh. St. 259; Nonemaker v. Amos, 73 Oh. St. 163; Hail v. Reed, 15 B. Mon.
479; Brown v. Spillman, 155 U. S. 665.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This appeal brings up for review the decree entered in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Oklahoma in four suits consolidated by stipulation of the parties.
The suits had the common purpose of attacking the
constitutional validity of a statute of Oklahoma, enacted
in 1907, which is referred to as chapter 67 of the Session
Laws of 1907. It is inserted in the margin in full.' All
'Chapter 67-Pipe Lines-Regulating Gas and Oil Pipe LinesArticle 1.
An act regulating the laying, constructing, and maintaining and operating of gas pipe lines for the transportation of natural gas within
the State of Oklahoma, defining the modes of procedure for the exercise of the right of eminent domain for such purposes, providing
for the inspection and supervision of the laying of such pipe lines
and limiting the gas pressure therein, and providing penalties for
the violation thereof.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

of the bills have the same foundation, that is, the right
to buy, sell and transport natural gas in interstate commerce notwithstanding the provision of the statute.
The suits were numbered in the court below 856, 857,
Be it Enacted by the People of the State of Oklahoma:
SECTION 1. Any firm, co-partnership, association or combination of
individuals may become a body corporate under the laws of this State
for the purpose of producing, transmitting or transporting natural gas
to points within this State by complying with the general corporation
laws of the State of Oklahoma, and with this act.
SEC. 2. No corporation organized for the purpose of, or engaged in
the transportation or transmission of natural gas within this State shall
be granted a charter or right of eminent domain, or right to use the
highways of this State unless it shall be expressly stipulated in such
charter that it shall only transport or transmit natural gas through its
pipe lines to points within this State; that it shall not connect with,
transport to, or deliver natural gas to individuals, associations, copartnership companies or corporations engaged in transporting or furnishing natural gas to points, places or persons outside of this State.
SEC. 3. Foreign corporations formed for the purpose of, or engaged
in the business of transporting or transmitting natural gas by means
of pipe lines, shall never be licensed or permitted to conduct such business within this State.
SEC. 4. No association, combination, co-partnership or corporation
shall have or exercise the right of eminent domain within this State for
the purpose of constructing, or maintaining a gas pipe line or lines
within this State, or shall be permitted to take private or public property for their use within this State, unless expressly granted such
power in accordance with this act.
SEC. 5. The laying, constructing, building and maintaining a gas
pipe line or lines for the transportation or transmission of natural gas
along, over, under, across, or through the highways, roads, bridges,
streets, or alleys in this State, or of any county, city, municipal corporation or any other public or private premises within this State is
hereby declared an additional burden upon said highway, bridge, road,
street or alley, and any other private, or public premises may only be
done when the right is granted by express charter from the State and
shall not be constructed, maintained, or operated until all damages to
adjacent owners are ascertained and paid as provided by law.
SEC. 6. All pipe lines for the transportation or transmission of
natural gas in this State shall be laid under the direction and inspection

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

858 and 859. In 856 the Kansas Natural Gas Company
was complainant. It is a corporation of the State of Delaware, and is engaged in the business of purchasing and
distributing natural gas to consumers. It has a contract
of proper persons skilled in such business to be designated by the chief
mining inspector for such duty, and the expenses of such inspection
and supervision shall be borne and paid for by the parties laying and
constructing such pipe lines for the transportation or transmission of
natural gas.
SEC. 7. No pipe line for the transportation or transmission of nattural gas shall be subjected to a greater pressure than three hundred
pounds to the square inch, except for the purpose of testing such lines,
and gas pumps shall not be used on any gas pipe lines for the transportation or transmission of natural gas or used on or in any gas well within
this State.
SEC. 8. Any corporation granted the right under the provisions of
this act to exercise the right of eminent domain, or use the highways of
this State to construct or maintain a gas pipe line or lines for the transportation or transmission of natural gas to points within this State,
which shall transport or transmit any natural gas to a point outside of,
or beyond this State, or shall connect with or attempt to connect withi
or threaten to connect with any gas pipe line furnishing, transporting,
or transmitting gas to a point outside of, or beyond this State, shall by
each or all of said acts, forfeit all right granted it or them by the charter
from this State, and said forfeiture shall extend back to the time of
the commission of said act or said acts in violation of this act; and such
act or acts shall of themselves work a forfeiture of any and all rights of
any and every kind and character which may be or may have been
granted by the State for the transportation or transmission of natural
gas within this State, and all the property of said corporation and all
the property at any time belonging to said corporation, at any time
used in the construction, maintaining or operation of said gas pipe line
or lines shall, in due course of law, be forfeited to and be taken into the
possession of the State through its proper officer and in said action
there shall be a right to the State of the appointment of a receiver,
either before or after the judgment, to be exercised at the option of the
State, and the officer taking possession of said property shall immediately disconnect said pipe line or lines at a proper point in this State
from any pipe line or lines going out of, or beyond the State. And
said property shall be sold as directed by the court having jurisdiction
of said proceedings, and the proceeds of said sale shall be applied, first

VOL. ccxxi-16

Al

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

for the purchase of all the gas that can be produced from
a certain well in Washington County, Oklahoma, and has
acquired by purchase the right of way over the land upon
which the well is located for the laying of a pipe line for
the transportation of the gas, and proposes to extend its
trunk pipe lines from the present southern terminus thereof
in the State of Kansas southward across the Oklahoma
state line to the well. It also proposes to construct lateral
and branch lines from the trunk line so extended for the
purpose of gathering and receiving such gas as it may be
able to purchase from the owners of other wells. Its line
will not be used in any way for local traffic, but only for
the transportation of the gas from the wells in Oklahoma
into the States of Kansas and Missouri.
to the payment of the cost of such proceeding, and the remainder, if
any, paid into the school fund of the State, and said charter under which
said act or acts were committed shall be revoked, and no charter for
the transportation or transmission of natural gas shall ever be granted
fo any corporation having among its stockholders any person who was
one of the stockholders of said corporation whose charter has or may
have been forfeited as aforesaid, and if any such charter shall have been
granted, and thereafter a person shall become a stockholder thereof
who was one of the stockholders of the corporation whose charter has
been or may have been forfeited, as herein provided, the charter of said
corporation, one of whose stockholders is as last named, shall therefore
be forfeited and revoked. Provided, that any person who may be
denied the right to'become a stockholder as above prescribed may be
granted the right to become such stockholder by the corporation commission, when such person shows to such commission that he was not
a party to the former violation of this act.
SEc. 9. No pipe lines for the transportation or transmission of natural gas shall be laid upon private or public property when the purpose of such line is to transport or transmit gas for sale to the public
until the same is properly inspected as provided in this act; and before
any gas pipe line company shall furnish or sell gas to the public, it
shall secure from the inspector a certificate showing that said line is
laid and constructed in accordance with this act, and under the inspection of the proper officer, provided that nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent persons drilling for oil and gas from laying surface

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In No. 857 the Marnet Mining Company, a corporation
of West Virginia, is complainant. For the purpose of
transporting from the producers of gas in the State of
Oklahoma to purchasers and consumers in Kansas and
Missouri, it has purchased a right of way over certain
lands in the State, and proposes to construct a system of
pipe lines to be used exclusively in such interstate transportation, and not in any way for local traffic.
In No. 858 A. W. Lewis, a citizen and resident of the
State of Ohio, is complainant. He is the owner of an oil
and gas lease by which he has acquired the right to construct wells on a certain tract of land in Oklahoma, and to
take gas therefrom for the period of fifteen years. He
has constructed a well, in accordance with his lease, which
lines to transport or transmit gas to wells which are being drilled within
this State and further provided, that factories in this State may transport or transmit gas through pipe lines for their own use for factories
located wholly within this State, upon securing the right of way from
the State over or along the highways and from property owners to their
lands.
SEC. 10. That no person, firm or association or corporation shall
ever be permitted to transmit or transport natural gas by pipe lines in
this State or in this State construct or operate a pipe line for the
transmission of natural gas, except such persons, firms, associations, or
corporations be incorporated as in this act provided, except as in section 9 of this act, and provided further that all persons, firms, corporations, associations, and institutions now doing the business of transporting or transmission of natural gas in this State and otherwise
complying with this act are hereby permitted to incorporate under the
provisions of this act within ten days after the passage and approval
of the same.
SEC. 11. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.
SEC. 12. An existing emergency is hereby declared by the legislature
for the preservation of the public peace, health and safety of the
State.
SEC. 13. This act shall take effect from and after its passage and
approval as provided by law.
Approved December 21, 1907.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

is capable of producing many millions of cubic feet of gas
per day, which, being in excess of the local demand, he is
unable to sell in the State; and he alleges that, being prevented from transporting it from the State, he has suffered
great loss and damage and is deprived of his property
without compensation.
In No. 859 0. A. Bleakley, a citizen and resident of
Pennsylvania, is complainant. He has received from the
Secretary of the Interior a right of way over the land of
certain Indians over a designated route, paying to the
Indian Agent, by law and the rules and regulations of the
Interior Department, the value of such right of way and
the damages which the owners of the land over which he
will pass for the laying and maintaining of a pipe-line for
the exclusive purpose of transporting natural gas from
Oklahoma to Kansas.
It is alleged in the bills that a great number of wells have
been drilled in the State at great expense which are capable
of producing more than 1,000,000,000 cubic feet of gas per
day, that such amount is more than necessary for the
demands of the people of the State, and the excess of supply is required to meet the wants of those residing in Missouri and Kansas. This want, it is alleged, may be supplied through the distributing plants now constructed and
those contemplated by complainants, but that under the
present conditions the owners are required to cease development work and to keep large and valuable wells capped
and inoperative, to their great injury and damage. It is
alleged that in constructing lines for such transportation
it will not be necessary to go along the highways of the
State, but only across or over them, and that the lines to
be constructed will be private lines, will endanger the lives
and property of no one, and will be constructed in just conformity with all reasonable rules and regulations of the
State.
It is averred that each of the defendants is charged, by

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

virtue of his office, to execute the laws and constitution of
the State, and that he has undertaken to enforce the act
hereinbefore referred to by proceedings in courts and by
force of arms, and it is his intent and avowed purpose to
prevent the transportation of gas beyond the limits of the
State. The particular acts are set forth.
The bills pray discovery, that the act above referred to
be declared void as being in conflict with § 8, Article I, and
the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the
United States, and that the defendants be enjoined from
the things attributed to them. General relief is also
prayed.
Demurrers were filed to the bills which were overruled
(172 Fed. Rep. 545), and the defendants answered.
It was subsequently stipulated that the causes be consolidated and that appellant file an amended answer in
each of the cases and the answers of the other defendants
be withdrawn. It will only be necessary to consider the
amended answer, not, however, its details either of denial
or averment, but only of certain facts especially relied on.
These are: The present daily capacity of the gas wells of
the State is approximately 114 billion cubic feet, the daily
consumption being more than can be safely taken from
them "without rapidly destroying their efficiency and
depleting this great natural resource of the State." The
gas area of the State is found in oil-producing sand, and
the experience of all other natural gas fields demonstrates
that the gas found in and taken from such sand is of much
shorter duration than that found in purely gas sand, and
if the acts of complainants be permitted "the field will
be exhausted in a very short time." While it is true that
the gas in Oklahoma is found in a gas and oil-producing
sand which extends underneath large contiguous areas of
land, every well takes from this unbroken area and diminishes the producing capacity of every other well and of
the entire field, the acts of the complainants if permitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

will greatly damage and injure the entire field and take the
property of all other owners therein and "that the act of
the legislature of the State of Oklahoma alleged in the bill
to be unconstitutional was an effort on the part of the
legislature of the State to preserve the natural gas field
of the State from destructive waste."
Certain cities of the States, which, by reason of their
proximity to the gas field should be supplied with gas,
are not now supplied with it, and will never be if complainants are allowed to transport it from Oklahoma
without regulation by laws of the State, and the population of the State is now 1,750,000 and is growing more
rapidly than that of any other State in the Union. On
account of the general prairie character of the State it is
without domestic fuel except coal and natural gas. Its
supply of coal is growing rapidly more costly to produce,
that the petroleum oil produced is practically transported
from the State, "and that, substantially, the only natural,
practical, usable fuel, both for domestic and industrial use,
is natural gas."
The complainants may and are actually in the process
of erecting enormous pumping stations outside of the
State which "might reasonably and would inevitably render entirely useless all the present lines (gas) in Oklahoma,
and take away from the cities and towns of Oklahoma the
entire practical use of their sole and natural fuel, because
when gas is removed by the limited, prudent and natural
rock pressure the nature and formation of the gas and oil
sand is not radically changed, but if large pumps to pump
out the wells out of proportion to the rock pressure are
used, as are now actually threatened, by the complainant,
the gas and oil sand is actually broken down as though shot
with dynamite and other violence, and the salt water thereunder, always to be found, at once drowns out the wells,
where rock pressure has been too greatly or rapidly decreased; that the use of the highways is a portion of the

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GA8 CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

public property, and the same should be confined to those
who supply all alike who may seek to be served, and because of its nature and extent and because the enormous
amount of capital needed to make practical investments
tends to create monopolies. The business of gas transportation is a public business in interstate trade, over
which Congress has never legislated, and to permit complainant to carry out its said attempt and intent to monopolize the natural gas of the State and transport it away without regulation by the state laws over and across the State's
highways without the State's consent would be to devote
public property to private and exclusive use against the
principles of the Constitution of this State and the United
States, and deprive the intending purchasers of natural
gas in this State from all supply whatsoever."
There are other allegations of the effect of contemplated
acts of the complainants upon the gas supply of the State
and there are admissions that pipe lines are the only practical means of transportation, but this, it is alleged, is due
to its cheapness as compared with other means of transportation considering the price of gas as a fuel as compared
with other fuel products and the transportation of gas
from other fields. And it is set forth that the highways
of the State are open to the transportation of gas by any
means which do not "make a permanent appropriation
of any part of the highways by placing a plant in the
same."
It is further alleged that in order to supply the cities of
the State with gas, lines are continually being extended and
that there are several other pipe lines which are seeking to
carry on business in the State in the same manner as desired by complainant, and if the right exists in complainant
it exists in all other foreign corporations, and, if exercised, lines will be extended as one part of the field becomes exhausted to other parts of the field and the lines
supplying the cities of the State will also be extended in

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

like manner and effect and a speedy destruction of the supply of the gas in the State will result.
It is admitted that there are maintained and operated
in the State natural gas pipe lines, but, it is alleged, that
they are in daily use for the transportation of gas within
the State. And it is further admitted that they in many
instances and often at great length, run over, along and
across the highways of the State and "are operated without hurt, hindrance, damage or inconvenience to the traveling public or to abutting property owners." But it is
averred that "they were laid and are operated according
to the laws in force at the time and pursuant to the laws of
the State."
Appellant admits that it is his duty to execute the laws
of the State, and that it is his intention to enforce chapter
67 of the Session Laws of 1907 and 1908, and the acts
amendatory and supplementary thereto "in so far as the
same must or should be done by litigation in which the
State is interested," but that his duties rest solely upon
himself and are not controlled by others, and that he intends to prevent solely by actions in competent courts the
laying, constructing and operating of gas pipe lines in, on,
under, across or along the highways of the State by complainant or by any other person not authorized so to do
by the laws of the State. He denies the acts of force
charged against him, or that he proposes to use force. The
other denials and admissions it is not necessary to set out.
A dissolution of the injunction is prayed.
The cases were consolidated, as we have said, and submitted on the bills and the answers "to the end that an
immediate determination thereof and final decree therein"
might be obtained.
A final decree was entered declaring that the statute
referred to "is unreasonable, unconstitutional, invalid and
void, and of no force or effect whatever," and a perpetual
injunction was awarded against its enforcement.

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The basis of the decree of the court was that expressed in
its opinion ruling upon the demurrers, to wit, that the statute of Oklahoma was prohibitive of interstate commerce
in natural gas, and in consequence was a violation of the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
and that being, as the court said, its dominant purpose,
it would, if enforced against complainants, "invade their
rights as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment of
the National Constitution" and also the constitution of
the State. Haskell v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 172 Fed.
Rep. 545.
These conclusions are contested, and it is asserted that
the statute's "ruling principle is conservation, not commerce; that the due process clause is the single issue."
And due process, it is urged, is not violated, because the
statute is not a taking of property, but a regulation of it
under the police power of the State. The provisions of the
act, it is further insisted, are but an exercise of the police
power to conserve the natural resources of the State, and
as means to that end the right of eminent domain is forbidden to foreign corporations engaged in transporting gas
from the State and the use of the highways of the State
,onfined to pipe lines operated by domestic corporations
in order that gas may be transmitted only between points
within the State. And such exercise of power, it is contended, does not regulate interstate commerce, but only
affects it indirectly.
A paradox is seemingly presented. Interstate commerce
in natural gas is absolutely prevented-prohibited in effect,
for we think it is undoubted that pipe lines are the only
practical means of gas transportation, and to prohibit
interstate commerce is more than to indirectly affect it.
Every provision of the statute is directed to such result.
Pipe-line construction is confined to corporations organized under the laws of the State, and the condition of their
incorporation is that they shall only transmit gas between

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

points in the State and shall not transport to or deliver
to corporations or persons engaged in transporting or furnishing gas to points outside of the State. The right of
eminent domain is given alone to such corporations and
the use of the highways is confined to them, and that there
be no element of control over them omitted, a violation of
the statute is punished by a forfeiture of charters and of
property. Nor can a new corporation be formed if even
one of its stockholders was a stockholder of an offending
corporation.
To such stringent subjection foreign corporations could
not be brought, so they are absolutely excluded from the
State by the following provision: "Sec. 3. Foreign corporations formed for the purpose of, or engaged in the business
of, transporting or transmitting natural gas by means of
pipe lines, shall never be licensed or permitted to conduct
such business within this State."
The statute presents no embarrassing questions of interpretation. It was manifestly enacted in the confident
belief that the State had the power to confine commerce
in natural gas between points within the State, and all of
the rights conferred on domestic corporations, all of the
rights denied to foreign corporations, were means to such
end. And the State having such power, it is contended,
if its exercise affects interstate commerce it affects such
commerce only incidentally. In other words, affects it
only, as it is contended, by the exertion of lawful rights
and only because it cannot acquire the means for its exercise.
The appellant makes a broader contention. The right
to conserve, or rather the right to reserve, the resources of
the State for the use of the inhabitants of the State, present and future, is broadly asserted. "The ruling principle
of the law," counsel say, "is conservation, not commerce."
It is true the means adopted to secure conservation are,
more insistently brought forward than the right of conser-

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vation, and the power of the State over its corporations
and over its highways and its right to give or withhold
eminent domain are many times put forward in the argument and illustrated by the citation of many cases. It
cannot but be observed that these rights need not the support of one another. If the right of conservation be as
complete as contended for it could be secured by simple
prohibitions or penalties. If the power over highways and
eminent domain be as absolute as asserted it will have to be
given effect no matter for what purpose exercised. We
are, therefore, admonished at the very start in the discussion of the importance of the questions presented and the
power which the States may exert against one another,
even accepting the concession of appellant that Congress
may break down the isolation by granting the right not
only to take private property but to subject the highways
of the State against the consent of the State to the uses of
interstate commerce. With full appreciation of the importance of the questions involved, we pass to their consideration.
As to conservation, appellant says that "the case narrows itself to the single question of whether in any event
a State has the right to conserve its natural resources, and,
second, has it the right to preserve a common supply for
the equal use of all those who may by law resort to it."
The second question is not presented in the case. The
provisions of the statute are not directed against waste.
They are directed against any use of the gas except in the
State. The right of the State "to preserve the common
supply for the equal use of all" owners is not denied by
appellees. We put the question out of consideration, therefore, except incidentally, and concede the right of the State
to preserve the supply of gas as we shall hereafter set forth.
The extent of power which the second question implies
a State possesses, challenges serious inquiry. The natural
resources of a State may be other than natural gas, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

example may be timber and coal, and iron and other metals,
but it is not contended that the right of conservation extends to these, and the broad statement of the first question is qualified in the argument by the properties of
natural gas and the limitation of its supply. This, it is
contended, gives a range to the police power of the State
which otherwise it would not possess. And such power,
as we understand the further contention to be, may determine not only the conservation of the resources of the
State but as to what class of persons may use them, as
dependent upon their transportation in state, rather than
in interstate, commerce. The contention is discussed at
length and variously illustrated. Indeed, analogies are
adduced of limitations upon the use of property by virtue
of the police power under conditions which invoke its exercise for the advancement of the general welfare. We select
for review from the cases brought forward, those nearest
to our inquiry, which are Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S.
190; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Oil Co., 220 U. S. 61;
Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349.
Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Indiana to review a judgment of that court
which sustained a statute which prohibited any one having the control or possession of any natural gas or oil well
to permit the gas or oil therefrom to escape into the open
air, and restrained the Oil Company from violating the
statute. Against the statute was urged the rights of property assured by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The case is a valuable one
and clearly announces the right of an owner to the soil
beneath it and the relation of his rights to all other owners
of the surface of the soil. The right of taking the gas, it
was said, was common to all owners of the surface, and
because of such a common right in all land owners an unlimited use (against a wasteful use the statute was directed)
by any it was competent for the State to prohibit. This

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

limitation upon the surface owners of property was justified by the peculiar character of gas and oil, they having
the power of self-transmission, and that therefore to preserve an equal right in all surface owners there could not
be an unlimited right in any. Gas and oil were likened to,
not made identical with, animals ferm naturwT and, like
such animals, were subject to appropriation by the owners
of the soil, but also, like them, did not become property
until reduced to actual possession.
But an important distinction was pointed out. In
things ferwe naturme, it was observed, all were endowed
with the power of reducing them to possession and exclusive property. In the case of natural gas only the surface proprietors had such power, and the distinction, it
was said, marked the difference in the extent of the State's
control. "In the one, as the public are the owners, every
one may be absolutely prevented from seeking to reduce
to possession. No divesting of private property, under
such a condition, can be conceived because the public are
the owners, and the enactment by the State of a law as to
the public ownership is but the discharge of the governmental trust resting in the State as to property of that
character. Geer v. Connecticut, supra 161 U. S. 519.
On the other hand, as to gas and oil, the surface proprietors within the gas field all have the right of reducing to
possession the gas and oil beneath. They could not be
absolutely deprived of this right which belongs to them
without a taking of private property." And this right,
it was further said, was coequal in all of the owners of
the surface and that the power of the State could be exerted "for the purpose of protecting all the collective
owners, by securing a just distribution, .to arise from the
enjoyment by them, of their privilege to reduce to possession, and to reach a like end by preventing waste."
And further characterizing the statute, it was said, viewed
as one to prevent the waste of the common property of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

the surface owners, it protected their property, not divested them of it. And special emphasis was given to
this conclusion by the comment that to assert that the
right of the surface owner to take was under the Fourteenth Amendment a right to waste, was"'to say that
one common owner may divest all the others of their
rights without wrongdoing, but the law-making power
cannot protect all the owners in their enjoyment without
violating the Constitution of the United States."
The case, therefore, is an authority against, not in support of, the contention of the appellant in the case at bar.
The statute of Indiana was directed against waste of
the gas, and was sustained because it protected the use
of all the surface owners against the waste of any. The
statute was one of true conservation, securing the rights
of property, not impairing them. Its purpose was to secure to the common owners of the gas a proportionate
acquisition of it, a reduction to possession and property,
not to take away any right of use or disposition after it
had thus become property. It was sustained because
such was its purpose; and we said that the surface owners
of the soil, owners of the gas as well, could not be deprived
of the right to reduce it to possession without the taking
of private property. It surely cannot need argument to
show that if they could not be deprived of the right to
reduce the gas to possession they could not be deprived
of any right which attached to it when in possession.
The Oklahoma statute far transcends the Indiana statute. It does what this court took pains to show that the
Indiana statute did not do. It does not protect the rights
of all surface owners against the abuses of any. It does
not alone regulate the right of the reduction to possession
of the gas, but when the right is exercised, when the gas
becomes property, takes from it the attributes of property, the right to dispose of it; indeed, selects its market
to reserve it for future purchasers and use within the State

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

on the ground that the welfare of the State will thereby
be subserved. The results of the contention repel its
acceptance. Gas, when reduced to possession, is a commodity; it belongs to the owner of the land, and, when
reduced to possession, is his individual property subject
to sale by him, and may be a subject of intrastate commerce and interstate commerce. The statute of Oklahoma recognizes it to be a subject of intrastate commerce,
but seeks to prohibit it from being the subject of interstate commerce, and this is the purpose of its conservation.
In other words, the purpose of its conservation is in a sense
commercial-the business welfare of the State, as coal
might be, or timber. Both of those products may be limited in amount, and the same consideration of the public
welfare which would confine gas to the use of the inhabitants of a State would confine them to the inhabitants of
the State. If the States have such power a singular situation might result. Pennsylvania might keep its coal,
the Northwest its timber, the mining States their minerals. And why may not the products of the field be brought
within the principle? Thus enlarged, or without that enlargement, its influence on interstate commerce need not
be pointed out. To what consequences does such power
tend? If one State has it, all States have it; embargo may
be retaliated by embargo, and commerce will be halted
at state lines. And yet we have said that "in matters of
foreign and interstate commerce there are no state lines."
In such commerce, instead of the States, a new power appears and a new welfare, a welfare which transcends that
of any State. But rather let us say it is constituted of the
welfare of all of the States and that of each State is made
the greater by a division of its resources, natural and
created, with every other State, and those of every other
State with it. This was the purpose, as it is the result, of
the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution of the
United States. If there is to be a turning backward it

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

must be done by the authority of another instrumentality
than a court.
The case of State ex rel. Corwin v. Indiana & Ohio
Oil, Gas and Mining Co., 120 Indiana, 575, is pertinent
here. A statute of Indiana was considered which made it
unlawful to pipe or conduct gas from any point within the
State to any point or place without the State. It was assailed on one side as a regulation of interstate commerce,
and therefore void under the Constitution of the United
States. It was defended, on the other hand, as a provision
for the exercise of the right of eminent domain, confining it
to those engaged in state business, denying it to those
engaged in interstate business, and, further, as imposing
restrictions on foreign corporations. It will be observed,
therefore, the statute had, it may be assumed, the same
inducement as the Oklahoma statute, and the same special justifications were urged in its defense. The court
rejected the defenses, and decided that the statute was not
a legitimate exercise of the police power, or the regulation
of the right of eminent domain or of foreign corporations,
but had the purpose "plainly and unmistakably manifested" to prohibit transportation of natural gas beyond
the limits of the State, and that this being its purpose it
was void as a regulation of interstate commerce. These
propositions were announced: (1) Natural gas is as much a
commodity as iron ore, coal or petroleum or other products
of the earth, and can be transported, bought and sold as
other products. (2) It is not a commercial product when it
is in the earth, but becomes so when brought to the surface
and placed in pipes for transportation. (3) If it can be
kept within the State after it has become a commercial
product, so may corn, wheat, lead and iron. If laws can
be enacted to prevent its transportation, "a complete
annihilation of interstate commerce might result." And
the court concluded: "We can find no tenable ground upon
which the act can be sustained, and we are compelled to

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

adJudge it invalid." The case was explicitly affirmed in
Manufacturers'Gas &c. Co. v. IndianaNatural Gas &c.. Co.,
155 Indiana, 545.
The case is valuable because the court through the same
justice who wrote the opinion distinguished between an
exercise of the police power to regulate the taking of natural gas and its prohibition in interstate commerce.
Jamiesonv. Indiana Natural Gas Co., 128 Indiana, 555,
sustained a statute prohibiting the taking of gas under
a greater pressure than 300 pounds to the square inch.
The court said that natural gas "is, no doubt, so far a
commercial commodity that this State cannot prohibit its
transportation to another State by direct legislation,"
citing State ex rel. Corwin v. The Indiana &c. Co., supra.
The court said further: "If it can be taken from the well
and transported to another State under a safe pressure
the State cannot prohibit its transportation, nor can the
State- establish one standard of pressure for its own citizens and another standard for the citizens of other States."
The court, therefore, discerning in the statute no discrimination and no prohibition but only a regulation universal
in its application and justified by the nature of the gas and
which allowed its transportation to other States, decided
that there was no restriction or burden upon interstate
ommerce.
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Company, 220 U. S.
61, is to the same effect as Ohio Oil Company v. Indiana.
Its similarity to the latter case was pointed out. Indeed,
they can be said to be identical in principle. In the one
case oil and gas, in the other mineral water and gas, were
commingled beneath the surface of the earth and capable
of movement and common ownership. In the one case
the right was asserted to waste the gas to secure the oil
which was the more valuable of the two; in the other case
the right was asserted to waste the water to secure the gas
as the more valuable of the two. In both cases there was
voL. ccxxi-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

a statute forbidding the waste. Speaking of the purpose of
the statute in Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Company,
it was said: "It is to prevent or avoid the injury and waste
suggested that the statute was adopted. It is not the first
of its type. One in principle quite like it was considered
by this court in Ohio Oil Co. v. Indiana, 177 U. S. 190."
The statute was sustained upon the reasoning of that case.
Hudson County Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349,
is urged, we have seen, on our attention. A statute of the
State of New Jersey was involved, which made it unlawful for any person or corporation to transport or carry
through pipes the waters of any fresh-water lake, river,
etc., into any other State for use therein. Two propositions may be said to be the foundation of the decision of the
court below sustaining the statute. (1) "The fresh-water
lakes, ponds, brooks and rivers, and the waters flowing
therein, constitute an important part of the natural advantages of the" State, "upon the faith of which its-population has multiplied in numbers and increased in material
welfare. The regulation of the use and disposal of such
waters, therefore, if it be within the power of the State,
is among the most important objects of government."
(2) "The common law recognized no right in the riparian
owner, as such, to divert water from the stream in order to
make merchandise of it, nor any right to transport any
portion of the water from the stream to a distance for the
use of others." It was further declared that the common
law authorized the acquisition of water "only by riparian
owners, and for purposes narrowly limited. Not that the
ownership is common and public." And the contention
was rejected that the title of the individual riparian owner
was to the water itself-the fluid considered as a commodity-and exclusive against the public and against all persons excepting other riparian owners.
It is clear that neither of these propositions will support
the contentions of the appellant in the case at bar. Nor

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

does any principle announced upon the review of the case
here, though the power of the State to enact the statute
was put "upon a broader ground than that which was
emphasized below." The police power of the State was
discussed and the difficulty expressed of fixing "boundary
stones between" it and the right of private property which
was asserted in the case. There were few decisions, it was
said, that were very much in point. But certain principles
were expressed, of which Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.
519, was considered as furnishing an illustration and Kansas v. Colorado,185 U. S. 125, and Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, some suggestions.
That principle was that it was for the "interest of the
public for a State to maintain the rivers that are wholly
within it substantially undiminished, except by such drains
upon them as the guardian of the public welfare may permit for the purpose of turning them to more perfect use."
And this principle was emphasized as the one determining
the case and the opinion expressed that it was "quite
beyond any rational view of riparian rights that an agreement of no matter what private owners, could sanction
the diversion of an important stream outside of the boundaries of the State in which it flows. The private right to
appropriate is subject not only to the rights of the lower
owners but to the initial limitation that it may not substantially diminish one of the great foundations of public
welfare and health."
It is hardly necessary to say that there was no purpose
in the case to take from property its uses and commercial
rights or to assimilate a flowing river and the welfare which
was interested in its preservation to the regulation of gas
wells, or to take from the gas when reduced to possession
the attributes of property decided to belong to it in Ohio
Oil Co. v. Indiana, and recognized in Lindsley v. Natural
Gas Co. Indeed, pains were taken to put out of consideration a material measure of the benefits of a great river to

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

a State. And surely we need not pause to point out the
difference between such a river flowing upon the surface
of the earth and such a substance as gas seeping invisibly
through sands beneath the surface.
We have reviewed the cases at some length as they demonstrate the unsoundness of the contention of appellant
based upon the right to conserve (we use this word in the
sense appellant uses it) the resources of the State, and that
the statute finds no justification in such purpose for its interference with private property or its restraint upon interstate commerce. At this late day it is not necessary
to cite cases to show that the right to engage in interstate
commerce is not the gift of a State, and that it cannot be
regulated or restrained by a State, or that a State cannot
exclude from its limits a corporation engaged in such commerce. To attain these unauthorized ends is the purpose
of the Oklahoma statute. The State through the statute
seeks in every way to accomplish these ends, and all the
powers that a State is conceived to possess are exerted
and all the limitations upon such powers are attempted
to be circumvented. Corporate persons are more subject
to control than natural persons. The business is therefore
confined to the former, and foreign corporations are excluded from the State. Lest they might enter by the
superior power of the Constitution of the United States,
the use of the highways is forbidden to them and the right
of eminent domain is withheld from them, and the prohibitive strength which these provisions are supposed to carry
is exhibited in the fact that the boundary of the State is
a highway. If it cannot be passed without the consent of
the State, commerce to and from the State is impossible.
The situation is not underestimated by appellant, and he
says: "If the appellees had the right of way they might
engage in interstate commerce, but their desire to engage
in interstate commerce is a different thing from the means
open to them to procure a right of way." And it is further

OKLAHOMA v. KANSAS NAT. GAS CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

said, that "the confusion of the right to engage in interstate commerce with the power to forcibly secure a right
of way is the basis of appellees' case."
There is here and there a suggestion that the State not
having granted such right the alternative is a grant of it
by Congress. But this overlooks the affirmative force of
the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution. The
inaction of Congress is a declaration of freedom from state
interference with the transportation of articles of legitimate interstate commerce, and this has been the answer
of the courts to contentions like those made in the case at
bar. State ex rel. Corwin v. Indiana & Ohio Oil, Gas &
Mining Co., supra; Benedict v. Columbia Construction Co.,
49 N. J. Eq. 23, and also in Haskell, Governor, et al. v.
Cowham, United States Circuit Court of Appeals, Eighth
Circuit. In the latter case the Oklahoma statute was under review, and in response to the same contentions which
are here presented these propositions were announced
with citation of cases:
"No State by the exercise of, or by the refusal to exercise, any or all of its powers, may prevent or unreasonably
burden interstate commerce within its borders in any
sound article thereof.
"No State by the exercise of, or by the refusal to exercise, any or all of its powers, may substantially discriminate against or directly regulate interstate commerce or the
right to carry it on."
The power of the State of Oklahoma over highways is
much discussel by appellant and appellees; the appellant
contending for a power practically absolute, as exercised
under the statute, making the highways impassable barriers to the pipe lines of appellees. The appellees contend
for a more modified and limited right in the State, one not
extending beyond an easement of public passage, subject,
therefore, to certain rights in the abutting owners, which
rights can be transferred; and further contend that even

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

if the power of the State be not so limited, it cannot be
exercised to discriminate against interstate commerce.
The rights of abutting owners we will not discuss, nor
the rights derived from them by appellees except to say
that whatever rights they had they conveyed to appellees
and against them there is no necessity of resorting to the
exercise of eminent domain. We place our decision on the
character and purpose of the Oklahoma statute. The
State, as we have seen, grants the use of the highways to
domestic corporations engaged in intrastate transportation
of natural gas, giving such corporations even the right to
the longitudinal use of the highways. It denies to appellees
the lesser right to pass under them or over them, notwithstanding it is conceded in the pleadings that the greater
use given to domestic corporations is no obstruction to
them. This discrimination is beyond the power of the
State to make. As said by the Circuit Court of Appeals
in the Eighth Circuit, no State can by action or inaction
prevent, unreasonably burden, discriminate against or
directly regulate interstate commerce or the right to carry
it on. And in all of these inhibited particulars the statute
of Oklahoma offends.
And, we repeat again, there is no question in the case
of the regulating power of the State over the natural gas
within its borders. The appellees concede the power, and,
replying to the argument of appellant based ori the intention of appellees to erect large pumps to increase the natural rock pressure of the gas, appellees say, "Kansas by legislative enactment forbids the use of artifibial apparatus
to increase the natural flow from gas wells: Chapter 312,
Laws of Kansas, 1909, page 520. To this act the Kansas
Natural Gas Company has no objection."
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE LURTON
JUSTICE HUGHES dissent.

and MR.

