OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

HANNIBAL BRIDGE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN

No. 100.

DISTRICT

OF

MISSOURI.

Argued April 17, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Section 18 of the act of March 3, 1899, c. 425, 30 Stat. 1153, authorizing the Secretary of War to require the removal of bridges which are
obstructions to navigation over navigable waterways of the United
States, is within the constitutional powers of Congress, and was
enacted to carry out the declared policy of the Government as to
the free and unobstructed navigation of waters of the United States
over which Congress has paramount control in virtue of its power to
regulate commerce.
As the statute only imposes on the Secretary of War the duty of attending to details necessary to carry out such declared policy it is not
an unconstitutional delegation of legislative or judicial power to an
executive officer.
Requiring the alteration of a bridge which is an obstruction to navigation is not a taking of property of the owners of such bridge within
the meaning of the Constitution.
Notice was duly served on all parties in interest and the hearings given
on the report of the Chief of Engineers by the Secretary of War were
in accord with the statute and the owners of the bridge, the removal
whereof was ordered, cannot complain.
The head of an executive department of this Government cannot-himself sign every official communication emanating from his department, and a proper notice signed by the Assistant Secretary has the
same force as though signed by the Secretary.
The notice of alterations required was sufficient in this case as it left
no reasonable doubt as to what was to be done.
The fact that a bridge was erected over a navigable water of the
United States under authority of the act of July 25, 1866, c. 246;
14 Stat. 244, does not prevent Congress from ordering its removal
when it becomes an obstruction, as the act expressly reserves the
right to alter or amend it so as to prevent obstructions to navigation. Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364.

HANNIBAL BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 195
221 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the provisions of the act of March 3, 1899, relating to the removal
of obstructions from navigable waters of the United
States, and the validity of proceedings taken, and orders
made, thereunder in connection with plaintiff in error's
bridge over the Mississippi River at Hannibal, Missouri,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. R. Burnham Moffat, for plaintiff in error, Hannibal Bridge Company; Mr. Wells H. Blodgett, with whom
Mr. James L. Minnis, and Mr. George A. Mahan were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error, Wabash Railroad Company:
The special act of July 25, 1866, under which the bridge
was erected, and which reserved to Congress the power
to require changes in the structure, was not repealed, or
in any wise affected, by the subsequent general law of
March 3, 1899, under which this proceeding was instituted.
State v. Stoll, 17 Wall. 436; Rogers v. United States, 185
U. S. 87; Sedgwick on Stat. Const. 123; Bishop, Written Law, § 112-B; Commissioners v. Board of Public Works,
39 Oh. St. 628; Fosdic v. Perrysburg,14 Oh. St. 472.
The bridge having been erected in accordance with the
act of 1866, it became a lawful structure, and necessarily
continues so until that act shall be amended. What
Congress has made lawful, only Congress can make unlawful. United States v. Keokuk Bridge Co., 45 Fed. Rep.
178.
The alterations to be made in the bridge were not
described, in the notice, with such certainty as to enable
the defendants to know when they had complied therewith.
As the only offense charged in the information consisted of a failure, on the part of defendants, to do the
things required to be done by the notice, it follows that
the things required to be done should have been described

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

221 U. S.

in the notice with the same degree of certainty that is required in describing the things that may be done, or may
not be done, in a penal statute. United States v. Keokuk
Bridge Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 178; Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v.
Dey, 35 Fed. Rep. 876; United States v. Cruikshank, 92
U. S. 557; McConville v. Myer, 39 N. J. Law, 38; Louisville & Nashville Ry. Co. v. Qommissioners, 19 Fed. Rep.
679.
A contract for work, of such vague description, could
not be specifically enforced. If this were a suit on a contract to build a long pier, a proper guard fence, or a good
house, there could be no decree for specific performance,
because of insufficient description of the work to be performed. Bishop on Contracts, § 316; Beach on Contracts, § 76.
Defendants should have been discharged, because it
was no offense under § 18 of the act of 1899, to refuse to
comply with the notice signed by the Assistant Secretary
of War. That office is not mentioned in § 18, and criminal statutes cannot be enlarged by construction, nor can
new, or additional words, be read into them. There is
nothing in the act creating the office that advised defendants that they were required to obey a notice signed
by that officer. 26 Stat. 17; United States v. Wiltberger,
5 Wheat. 76; United States v. Harris,177 U. S. 305; In re
Enterprise, 1 Paine, 32.

The parties owning and operating the bridge were not
given a reasonable opportunity to be heard, in the sense in
which those words are employed in the act of 1899.
The words "hearing " and "reasonable opportunity
to be heard," are not new in legislative enactments. They
signify the right to be present, to be represented by counsel, to have the witnesses testify under sanction of an
oath, and the right of cross-examination. These rights
were not accorded to defendants. Keach v. Thompson,
94 N. Y. 451; Mayor v. Nichols, 79 N. Y. 582.

HANNIBAL BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 197
221 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

There was a fatal variance between material allegations of the information, and the proof; the allegation
being that the Secretary of War gave the notice, and the
proof being that the Assistant Secretary of War gave the
notice. United States v. Cantril, 4 Cranch, 167; United
States v. Hardyman, 13 Pet. 176.
There was absolutely no proof offered, either at the socalled "hearing" before the Secretary or at the trial
of the defendants in the District Court, to support the
charge in the information to the effect that the bridge was
not erected in accordance with the act of July 25, 1866.
Congress has not, by the act of 1866, surrendered its
right to determine, for the purposes of the contract, the
fact upon which alone it may require alterations; plaintiffs
in error are entitled to an ascertainment of the fact by
Congress, and not by an officer of one of the executive
departments of the Government. United States v. Central
Pacific R. R. Co., 118 U. S. 235; Walker v. Whitehead, 16
Wall. 314; People ex rel. v. Otis, 90 N. Y. 48; State v. Julow,
129 Missouri, 172.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United
States:
The power conferred upon the Secretary of War by
§ 18 of the act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1121, 1153, may
be exercised with respect to the Hannibal bridge, although
constructed pursuant to the act of July 25, 1866, 14 Stat.
244.
The rule generalia specialibus non derogant has no application. 2 5 Op. A. G. 212; United States v. Keokuk Bridge
Co., 45 Fed. Rep. 178, upon which plaintiffs in error rely;
Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; Monongahela Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 177, 194.
Even if § 18 of the act of 1899, does not apply to a
bridge constructed pursuant to the act of July 25, 1866,
the action of the Secretary of War and the proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

in this case are none the less authorized and valid as the
Hannibal bridge was constructed in accordance with the
act of July 25, 1866. Hannibal Railroad Co. v. Packet
Co., 125 U. S. 260, 269.
The alterations specified in the notice served upon
plaintiffs in error were set forth with sufficient particularity.
The notice to alter, signed by the Assistant Secretary
of War, met the requirements of § 18. On its face, and in
legal effect, the notice is given by the Secretary of War,
the Assistant Secretary, who signed it, being merely the
medium for its transmittal. Miller v. Mayor, 109 U. S.
385; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; Wolsey v. Chapman,
101 U. S. 755, 769.
In the absence of any proof to the contrary, it must be
assumed that the statements contained in the notice were
true and that the Assistant Secretary was authorized by
the Secretary to send the same. United States v. Peralta,
19 How. 343, 347; Parish v. United States, 100 U. S. 500;
United States v. Adams, 24 Fed. Rep. 348, 351; John
Shillito Co. v. McClung, 51 Fed. Rep. 868; Re Huttman,
70 Fed. Rep. 699; Billings v. United States, 23 C. Cl.
166; Act of March 5, 1890, 26 Stat. 17; United States v.
Heinszen, 206 U. S. 370, 382.
The hearing accorded plaintiffs in error met the requirements of § 18. Having acquiesced not only in the
manner of conducting the original hearing, but the rehearing as well, any objection by them at this time comes
too late. Union Bridge Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364,
369; Monongahela Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S.
177.
Inquiry as to whether a bridge is a reasonable obstruction to navigation is a legislative and not a judicial
one. Bridge Company v. United States, 105 U. S. 475.
The proceeding is not the exercise of the power of
eminent domain. Cooley's Const. Lim., § 564. The ac-

HANNIBAL BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 199
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of Congress in requiring the alteration of bridges
across navigable waterways to meet the needs of navigation is not the exercise of the power of eminent domain
but of police power, to the exercise of which uncompensated obedience is required. Union Bridge Co. v. United
States, 204 U. S. 364; Gibson v. United States, 166 U. S.
269; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 141; New Orleans Gas
Light Co. v. DrainageCommissioners, 197 U. S. 453; C., B.
& Q. R. R. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561;
West Chicago Street Railroadv. Chicago, 201 U. S. 506.
And see as to hearings, The Japanese Immigrant Case,
189 U. S. 86; Cooley's Const. Lim., § 496; Spencer v. Merchant, 125 U. S. 345; Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310;
Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 59; King v. Mullins, 171 U. S.
429.
The parties to this proceeding are not in a position to
question the sufficiency of the hearing in this case, in
the respects to which they refer, because they not only
acquiesced but participated in the procedure followed
without any objection whatsoever.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a criminal Information against the Hannibal
Bridge Company, the Wabash Railroad Company, and
the Missouri Pacific Railway Company, under the eighteenth section of the River and Harbor Appropriation Act
of Congress of March 3, 1899, c. 425, 30 Stat. 1121.
That section is as follows: "Whenever the Secretary of
War shall have good reason to believe that any railroad or
other bridge now constructed, or which may hereafter be
constructed, over any of the navigable waterways of the
United States is an unreasonable obstruction to the free
navigation of such waters on account of insufficient height,
width of span, or otherwise, or where there is difficulty
in passing the draw opening or the draw span of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

bridge by rafts, steamboats, or other water craft, it shall
be the duty of the said Secretary, first giving the parties
reasonable opportunity to be heard, to give notice to the
persons or corporations owning or controlling such bridge
to so alter the same as to render navigation through or
under it reasonably free, easy and unobstructed; and in
giving such notice he shall specify the changes recommended by the Chief of Engineers that are required to be
made, and shall prescribe in each case a reasonable time in
which to make them. If, at the end of such time the alteration has not been made, the Secretary of War shall forthwith notify the United States District Attorney for the
district in which such bridge is situated, to the end that the
criminal proceedings hereinafter mentioned may be taken.
If the persons, corporation, or association owning or controlling any railroad or other bridge shall, after receiving
notice to that effect, as hereinbefore required, from the
Secretary of War, and within the time prescribed by him
willfully fail or refuse to remove the same or to comply
with the lawful order of the Secretary of War in the premises, such persons, corporation, or association shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five thousand
dollars, and every month such persons, corporation or association shall remain in default in respect to the removal
or alteration of such bridge shall be deemed a new offense,
and subject the persons, corporation or association so
offending to the penalties above prescribed: Provided,
That in any case arising under the provisions of this section an appeal or writ of error may be taken from the district courts or from the existing circuit courts direct to
the Supreme Court either by the United States or by the
defendants."
Proceeding under the above statute, certain vessel
owners, masters, pilots and others interested in the navigation of the Mississippi River, represented to the Secre-

HANNIBAL BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 201
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tary of War, by petition, that the bridge over that river
at Hannibal, Missouri, had become and was an unreasonable obstruction to free navigation by reason of the location of the then existing draw-openings, the entire absence
of guard-fences or sheer-booms, and the presence of artificial deposits of stone about the piers of the bridge, which
they believed had increased the current through the drawopenings to a dangerous extent. The Secretary was asked
by the petitioners to exercise the powers granted to him
by the above act, and after due hearing of all interested
persons or corporations, require such alterations to be
made in and about the bridge as would render navigation
through it reasonably free, easy and unobstructed.
The matter was referred by the War Department to an
officer of the Engineer Corps of the Army, for report.
That officer, after examination, reported that from personal observation and experience, especially during the
great flood of June, 1903, he was satisfied that the bridge
was an unreasonable obstruction to navigation, by reason
of the wrong location of the draw-spans, the absence of
guard-fences or sheer-booms, and the deposit of rip-rap
in considerable quantities about the piers and abutments.
The report recommended certain changes in order that
navigation through the bridge might be reasonably safe,
easy and unobstructed. In these recommendations the
Chief of Engineers concurred. "The character of this
bridge as an unreasonable obstruction to navigation is,"
the report stated, "so generally understood, and has been
so well established by former hearings, that further hearings would appear to be superfluous; but, as the alteration
of the structure so as to make it reasonably safe for navigation will be expensive, and on that account will probably be antagonized by its owners, I believe it would be
best to hold another hearing, at which all parties in interest may be heard; the said new hearing to take place as
soon as practicable."

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Subsequently, under date of March 10, 1906, there
was issued by the War Department an official communication to the Bridge Company, as follows: "Take notice
that, Whereas, The Secretary of War has good reason to
believe that the drawbridge, commonly known as the
Wabash Railway Bridge, owned or operated by the Hannibal Bridge Company (and by the Wabash Railroad Company), inter alia, across the Mississippi River at Hannibal,
Missouri, is an unreasonable obstruction to the free navigation of the said Mississippi River (which is one of the
navigable waterways of the United States) on account of
unsuitable location of the draw-spans and protection crib,
the lack of suitable guard-fences or sheer-booms, and the
presence of obstructing rip-rap around the piers, there
being difficulty in passing the draw-openings or drawspans of such bridge by rafts, steamboat or other water
craft; and whereas, the following alterations, which have
been recommended by the Chief of Engineers, are required to render navigation through it reasonably free,
easy, and unobstructed, to wit: (Here follows specifications of proposed alterations)

.

.

.

And whereas, to

March 15, 1907, is a reasonable time in which to alter the
said bridge as described above. Now, therefore, in obedience to, and by virtue of, section eighteen of an act of
Congress of the United States entitled 'An Act making
appropriations for the construction, repair and preservation of certain public works on rivers and harbors, and for
other purposes,' approved March 3, 1899 (30 Stat., c. 425,
1153), the Secretary of War hereby notifies the said Hannibal Bridge Company to alter the said bridge as described
above, and prescribes that said alterations shall be made
and completed on or before Ma'ch 15, 1907."
Similar notices were given to the Wabash Railroad Company and the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company, respectively, each notice being signed by "Robert Shaw Oliver,
Asst. Secretary of War."

HANNIBAL BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 203
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Such a hearing as that notice required was had at Rock
Island, Illinois, before an Engineer officer designated by
the War Department, the parties interested having been
previously notified of the time, place and object of the
hearing. It appears also that notice of the hearing was
given through newspapers, published at St. Paul, St. Louis
and Hannibal. Among those present at the hearing were
numerous river men, masters and pilots. The Bridge
Company was also present by counsel and participated in
the investigation. After the hearing was concluded the
Engineer officer who presided made a report to the Chief of
Engineers, in which he said: "The law and the orders of the
Department have been fully complied with; every opportunity has been given the representatives of this bridge to
present their full views; the bridge to-day is an illegal
structure; it is an unreasonable obstruction to the present
navigation of the Mississippi River; there is great difficulty
in passing its draw openings at high stages; the continuance of existing conditions is liable at any moment to lead
to an appalling disaster and great loss of life; previous recommendations as to alterations necessary in this bridge
to render navigation through it reasonably free, easy and
unobstructed are concurred in."
He further said that "the bridge is an unreasonable obstruction, and that there is difficulty in passing its draw,
seems overwhelmingly shown by the statements and affidavits of those competent to give opinions on such a subject. The river pilots are almost unanimous in their views
regarding this bridge."
It should be here stated that, so far as the record shows,
no objection was made by the Bridge Company as to the
manner in which the hearing was conducted.
Subsequently, under date of March 10, 1906, in an official notice to the Bridge Company, signed by "Robert
Shaw Oliver, Asst. Secretary of War," the Secretary of
War (Mr. Taft) expressed his approval of the recommenda-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

tions of the Chief of Engineers, and directed the Bridge
Company, on or before March 15, 1907, to make the alterations suggested by that officer. Later on, the Bridge
Company requested a hearing before the Secretary of War
himself. The Secretary assented to another hearing being
had, but said that it must be held before the Judge Advocate General of the Army. After seasonable notice to the
parties interested in the navigation of the river, the latter
officer heard the case anew and reported to the Secretary
of War that the case was covered by the act of March 3,
1899, c. 425, 30 Stat. 1121, and that the action theretofore
taken by the War Department should be adhered to. The
Secretary of War formally approved the report of the
Judge Advocate General, and directed the Chief of Engineers to "act accordingly."
The Bridge Company failed or refused to make the
required alterations of the bridge. Then followed the
Information in question, the Wabash Railroad Company
and the Missouri Pacific Railway Company being made codefendants with the Bridge Company on the ground that
they owned or controlled the bridge.
There were two counts in the Information; the first
count, charging the defendants with having willfully failed
and refused to make the above alterations in the bridge,
within the time prescribed by the Secretary of War, and
to comply with the order of that officer; the second count
charging the willful failure and refusal of the defendants to
make such alterations within one month after the time
allowed by the Department.
A demurrer to the Information was overruled, and plea
of not guilty entered. The jury found the Bridge Company and the Wabash Railroad Company each guilty,
but by direction of the court it returned a verdict of not
guilty as to the Missouri Pacific Railway Company. Judgment was rendered in favor of the United States against
the Bridge Company for $2,500 on each count of the Infor-

HANNIBAL BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 205
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mation. A like judgment was rendered against the Wabash Railroad Company.
The assignments of error are very numerous. But we
feel constrained to say that no one of them causes a serious
doubt as to the correctness of the judgment sought to be
reviewed. This court has heretofore held, upon full consideration, that Congress had full authority, under the Constitution, to enact § 18 of the act of March 3, 1899, c. 425,
30 Stat. 1153, and that the delegation to the Secretary of
War of the authority specified in that section was not a departure from the established constitutional rule that forbids the delegation of strictly legislative or judicial powers
to an executive officer of the Government. All that the
act did was to impose upon the Secretary the duty of attending to such details as were necessary in order to carry
out the declared policy of the Government as to the free
and unobstructed navigation of those waters of the United
States over which Congress in virtue of its power to regulate commerce had paramount control. It is also firmly
settled that such alterations of bridges over the navigable
waters of the United States as the Chief of Engineers
recommended, and as the Secretary of War required to be
made after notice and hearing the parties interested, was
not a taking of the property of the owners of such bridges
within the meaning of the Constitution. Union Bridge
Company v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; Monongahela
Bridge Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 177; Field v. Clark,
143 U. S. 649; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470.
What the Secretary did in relation to the bridge here in
question seems to have been in substantial, if not in exact
accordance with the statute. He was officially informed,
through the Engineer Corps, that the complaints that
came to him from many sources as to the Hannibal bridge
were sufficient to require such action on his part as the
statute authorized. He ordered a hearing, first causing
notice to be given to the parties interested of the time and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

place of the hearing. We cannot doubt from the record
that the hearing was adequate and was fairly conducted.
The result of the hearing was a recommendation, concurred
in by the Chief of Engineers, that certain alterations of
the bridge were demanded by the public interests. There
was a second hearing, with a like result. Then the Secretary acted and directed the making of such alterations in
the bridge as had been found to be necessary. Of the character and extent of those alterations the Bridge Company
was notified by an official communication from the War
Department. It is true that that communication was
signed by the Assistant Secretary of War, and not by the
Secretary himself. And that fact is relied upon to invalidate the entire proceeding. There is no merit in this objection. The communication signed by the Assistant Secretary shows, upon its face, that it was from the War
Department and from the Secretary of War, and that the
Secretary, without abrogating his authority under the
statute, only used the hand of the Assistant Secretary in
order to give the owners of the bridge notice of what was
required of them under the statute. It is physically impossible for the head of an executive department to sign,
himself, every official communication that emanates from
his Department.
Equally without merit is the objection that the nature
and character of the required alterations were not sufficiently indicated. This is a mistake. The communication
from the War Department was full and adequate. The
owners of the bridge could have had no reasonable doubt
as to what was expected and required of them.
The defendants also insist that their bridge was constructed under the authority of a special act of Congress
of July 25, 1866 (14 Stat. 244, c. 246), and that its maintenance, as constructed, is not affected by a subsequent
general appropriation act, like the one of which the above
§ 18 forms a part. This view cannot be sustained. The

HANNIBAL BRIDGE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 207
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

act of July 25, 1866, 14 Stat. 244, c. 246, expressly reserves
the right to alter or amend it so as to prevent or remove all
material obstructions to the navigation of said river by the
construction of bridges. In the Union Bridge Case, above
cited, it appeared that the bridge was required by the
Secretary of War to be altered, at the expense of the owners. The point was made that the bridge having been
originally erected under the authority of the State of Pennsylvania and without objection from the General Government, the power of the Secretary and of Congress did not
go so far as the Government claimed. But this court said,
204 U. S., p. 400: "Although the bridge, when erected
under the authority of a Pennsylvania charter, may have
been a lawful structure, and although it may not have been
an unreasonable obstruction to commerce and navigation
as then carried on, it must be taken, under the cases cited,
and upon principle, not only that the company when exerting the power conferred upon it by the State, did so with
knowledge of the paramount authority of Congress to
regulate commerce among the States, but that it erected
the bridge subject to the possibility that Congress might,
at some future time, when the public interest demanded,
exert its power by appropriate legislation to protect navigation against unreasonable obstructions. Even if the
bridge, in its original form, was an unreasonable obstruction to navigation, the mere failure of the United States,
at the time, to intervene by its officers or by legislation and
prevent its erection, could not create an obligation on the
part of the Government to make compensation to the company if, at a subsequent time, and for public reasons,
Congress should forbid the maintenance of bridges that
had become unreasonable obstructions to navigation. It
is for Congress to determine when it will exert its power to
regulate interstate commerce. Its mere silence or inaction
when individuals or corporations, under the authority of a
State, place unreasonable obstructions in the waterways

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

of the United States, cannot have the effect to cast upon
the Government an obligation not to exert its constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce except
subject to the condition that compensation be made or
secured to the individuals or corporation who may be
incidentally affected by the exercise of such power. The
principle for which the Bridge Company contends would
seriously impair the exercise of the beneficient power of
the Government to secure the free and unobstructed navigation of the waterways of the United States."
We have said enough to dispose of every essential question made in the case or which requires notice.
Judgment affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
TRODICK.

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 117.

Argued April 11, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Land within place limits of the Northern Pacific Land Grant Act of
July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, actually occupied by a homesteader
intending to acquire title, did not pass bythe grant but were excepted
from its operation, and no right of the railroad attached to such
lands when its line was definitely located. Nelson v. Northern Pacific
Railway, 188 U. S. 108.
Where a bona fide settler was in actual occupation of unsurveyed lands
at the time of definite location of the line, the land occupied was
excepted from the grant; and if, before survey, he sold his improvements to one who also settled on the land intending to apply for title
under the homestead laws of the United States, the claim of the
latter is superior to that of the railroad company notwithstanding
the original settler had no claim of record.
A settler in actual occupation before the location of the definite line of

