OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

"The people of the United States constitute one nation,
under one government, and this government, within the
scope of the powers with which it is invested, is supreme.
On the other hand, the people of each State compose a
State, having its own government, and endowed with all
the functions essential to separate and independent existence. The States disunited might continue to exist.
Without the States in union there could be no such political body as the United States."
To this we may add that the constitutional equality of
the States is essential to the harmonious operation of the
scheme upon which the Republic was organized. When
that equality disappears we may remain a free people, but
the Union will not be the Union of the Constitution.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE HOLMES dis-

sent.

BAGLIN, SUPERIOR GENERAL OF THE ORDER
OF CARTHUSIAN MONKS, v. CUSENIER COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND ON CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 99.

Argued March 14, 15, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

While names which are merely geographical cannot be exclusively appropriated as trade-marks, a geographical name which for a long
period has referred exclusively to a product made at the place and
not to the place itself may properly be used as a trade-mark; and
so held that the word "Chartreuse" as used by the Carthusian Monks
in connection with the liqueur manufactured by them at Grande
Chartreuse, France, before their removal to Spain, was a validly registered trade-mark in this country.

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants and Petitioners.

The law of a foreign country has no extra-territorial effect to detach
a trade-mark validly registered in this country from the product to
which it is attached.
Non-user of a trade-mark, or the use of new devices, does not afford
a basis for the penalty of loss of right thereto by abandonment;
abandonment will not be inferred in the absence of intent, and a
finding of intent must be supported by adequate facts.
While one may use the name of the place where he manufactures an article, in order to show where it is manufactured, and may state all the
facts in regard to his succession, under the law of a foreign country,
to property of parties formerly manufacturing an article similar in
many respects, he cannot, in this country, use the name of the place
to designate the article if that name has been validly registered as
a trade-mark here; and so held that the liquidator appointed in
France of the property of the Carthusian Monks could not, in this
country, use the word "Chartreuse" to designate the liqueur manufactured by him at Grande Chartreuse, the Carthusian Monks
having validly registered that name in the United States as a trademark of the liqueur manufactured by them.
A validly registered trade-mark cannot be used by anyone other than
the owner, even with words explaining that the article to which it is
attached is not manufactured by the owner of the trade-mark.
Where the Circuit Court has sustained the trade-mark but the Circuit
Court of Appeals has suggested a form of label that the defendant
might use, defendant should not be punished for contempt for using
such a form.

THE facts, which involve the validity of the word

"Chartreuse" as a trade-mark and other questions in
regard to the ownership thereof and the sale of cordials
under that name, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Philip Mauro, with whom Mr. C. A. L. Massie and
Mr. Ralph L. Scott were on the brief, for appellants and

petitioners:
The office of a trade-mark is to guarantee the origin of
an article with which it has become identified in the
public mind. Medicine Co. v. Wood, 108 U. S. 218, 223.
Defendant's use of the "Chartreuse" trade-mark vio-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants and Petitioners.

221 U. S.

lates the fundamental law of trade-marks. Defendant's
liqueur is of recent origin, its formula having been devised
in 1904. Defendant's business is not a continuation of
complainants' business.
The French court at Grenoble has decided that the
product sold by defendant is not genuine Chartreuse.
There can be no dispute between the parties hereto as
to the validity of the trade-mark "Chartreuse."
That
word does constitute a valid trade-mark as applied to
liqueurs, cordials, etc. See Falk v. Trading Co., 180
N. Y. 445, 451; Grezier v. Girard, decided April 13, 1876;
A. Bauer & Co. v. Order of Carthusian Monks, 120 Fed.
Rep. 78; and see also Judgment of the English House of
Lords.
The significance of the word "Chartreuse" is not geographical alone; but even if it were, geographical names may
constitute lawful trade-names under some circumstances.
Wotherspoon v. Currie, L. R. 5 H. L. 508; Lawrence Co. v.
Tenn. Mfg. Co., 138 U. S. 537, 550; Scriven v. North, 134
Fed. Rep. 366, 377; Thompson v. Montgomery, 41 Ch. D.
35,50; "Stone Ale" Case, and Reddaway v. Banham, 1 Q. B.
286; "Camel Hair Belting" Case; Shaver v. Heller & Merz
Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 821; Buzby v. Davis, 150 Fed. Rep. 275;
Pillsburyv. Mills Co., 24 U. S. App. 395; S. C., 12 C. C. A.
432, and 64 Fed. Rep. 841; Kathreiner's Malzkaffee Fab.
v. PastorKneipp Med. Co., 82 Fed. Rep. 321, 324; Siegert
v. Gandolfi, 149 Fed. Rep. 100; S. C., 79 C. C. A. 142;
Bauer v. Siegert, 120 Fed. Rep. 81.
The property involved in this suit is the good-will of
the business which has come into existence in this country,
being the outgrowth of transactions, extending over many
years, between complainants and the American public.
It was one of the objects of the French law of 1901 to
confiscate this American business, and even if such were
one of the objects of that law said business is not subject
to the jurisdiction of the French laws and tribunals.

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellees and Cross-Petitioners.

For definition of "good-will" see Washburn v. Wall
Paper Co., 81 Fed. Rep. 17, 20.
The Monks owned the business in question during all
the centuries they manufactured liqueurs in France, and
had at any time the right to move their base of operations
from one place to another. The right to transfer a business from place to place is an incident of ownership.
The attempt of the liquidator to exercise ownership
over the foreign trade-marks has been disapproved by
the French courts. The French law of 1901, and the
decrees of the French courts give no color of authority to
defendant to use the trade-marks of complainants in the
United States.
The new labels employed by complainants do not in
any way amount to an abandonment of the old tradename and trade-marks.
Mr. A. L. Pincoffs, with whom Mr. Roger Foster was
on the brief, for appellees and cross-petitioners:
The bill cannot be maintained as a bill to enjoin infringements by the complainant of a trade-mark, as the
primary meaning of the word "Chartreuse" is geographical and no use of the word as its trade-mark by
defendant is proved. Elgin Co. v. Illinois Watch Co., 179
U. S. 665, 667; Ex parte Farmer Co., 18 Off. Gaz. 412;
Pillsbury Co. v. Eagle Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 608; Waltham
Watch Co. v. U. S. Watch Co., 173 Massachusetts, 85;
Wolf v. Goulard, 18 How. Pr. 64, 66, 67; Lea v. Wolf, 46
How. Pr. 157, 158; Browne on Trade-marks, 2d ed., § 182,
p. 193; Durham Smoking Tobacco Case, 3 Hughes, 111, 167.
There was no business or good-will vested in complainants in this country separate and apart from the business
and good-will in France. Knoedler v. Boussod, 47 Fed.
Rep. 465.
The disputed marks and the phrase "Chartreuse," as
applied to a liqueur, are primarily significant of place of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellees and Cross-Petitioners.

221 U. S.

manufacture; the complainants have failed to prove that
they have acquired a secondary meaning and refer merely
to the fact that the article is of their manufacture. Wotherspoon v. Currie, L. R. 5 H. L. 508; Thompson v. Montgomery, L. R. 41 Ch. Div. 35; Bauer v. CarthusianMonks,
120 Fed. Rep. 78.
Complainants cannot maintain this suit, because the
marks which they seek to enjoin defendant from using
cannot be used by themselves. Atlantic Milling Co. v.
Robinson, 20 Fed. Rep. 218; Dixon Crucible Co. v. Guggenheim, 3 Am. L. T. 228; Hudson v. Osborne, 39 L. J. Ch.
(N. S.) 79; Shipwright v. Clements, 19 W. R. 599; Hall v.
Barrows, 4 DeG., J. & S. 150; Monson v. Boehm, L. R.
26 Ch. Div. 398, 405.
Those who do not in any sense succeed to the business
cannot claim the trade-mark. There is no such thing as
a trade-mark in gross. It must be appendant to some
particular business. Weston v. Ketcham, 51 How. Pr.
455; Kidd v. Johnson, 100 U. S. 617.
The complainants have failed to prove that this defendant falsely represents that the liqueur sold by it is
made in accordance with any recipe of complainants, or
that it is guilty of any misrepresentation in stating that
its liqueur is identical with that formerly made by the
Monks. Hostetter v. Hungerford, 97 Fed. Rep. 585.
As the product formerly manufactured by the Monks
owed its reputation to its quality, due to certain advantages inseparably connected with the place of manufacture, defendant's principal, who, by decree of a competent French court, has been directed and authorized to
carry on such business at the identical place under similar
conditions, and who, owing to the advantages so enjoyed
by him, has succeeded in making the identical article, has
the right to the good-will attached to such business and
to use the trade-name and labels connected with it.
Trade-marks or trade-names may be assigned with the

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellees and Cross-Petitioners.

business to which they appertain, and will go with an
assignment of the good-will of that business, either voluntarily or by operation of law. Kidd v. Johnson, 100 U. S.
617; Menendez v. Holt, 128 U. S. 514; Chemical Co. v.
Meyer, 139 U. S. 547; Warren v. Thread Co., 134 Massachusetts, 247; Nervine Co. v. Richmond, 159 U. S. 302.
The good-will of a business including the right to use
trade-marks, even where these consist of the names of individuals engaged in the business, and of a picture representing such name, pass with a transfer of all the property
and assets of the business, although not specifically mentioned. Fish Bros. Wagon Co. v. Titus G. Fish et al., 82
Wisconsin, 546; Sarrazin v. Irby Segar & Tobacco Co., 93
Fed. Rep. 624; Nervine Co. v. Richmond, 159 U. S. 293;
Peck Bros. & Co. v. Peck Bros., 113 Fed. Rep. 291; Chemical Co. v. Meyer, supra; LePage Co. v. Russia Cement Co.,
51 Fed. Rep. 941.
The correctness of the French judgments appointing
defendant's principal are not open to question here.
They are of the nature of a judgment in rem. Black on
Judgments, 2d ed., § 79; Windsor v. McVeigh, 93 U. S. 274;
Kreiss v. Faron, 118 California, 142; Whitney v. Walsh, 1
Cush. 29.
When a court of competent jurisdiction and by proceedings directed specifically against things within its
jurisdiction, acts on such things, its judgment, if the procedure be regular, is everywhere binding. Wharton,
Conflict of Laws, 3d ed., 665, 666; Castrique v. Imrie, L.
R. 4 H. L. 428; Magoun v. New Eng. Co., 1 Story, 157;
Peters v. Warren Ins. Co., 14 Pet. 99; Hudson v. Guestier,
4 Cranch, 293; Williams v. Armroyd, 7 Cranch, 423;
Whitney v. Walsh, 1 Cush. 29; Black, Judgments, § 813;
Monroe v. Douglas, 4 Sandf. Ch. 126, 183; Hilton v.
Guyot, 159 U. S. 167.
This court cannot enter into an inquiry as to whether
the French courts proceeded correctly as to their own law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Black on Judgments, 581-9; Castrique v. Imrie, L. R. 4
H. L. 428; Williams v. Armroyd, 7 Cranch, 423.
Even if the word "Chartreuse" and the labels ever had
the secondary meaning claimed by the complainants, the
evidence in this case shows that they have lost such
meaning, and that both the word "Chartreuse" and the
labels indicate to the American public exclusively the
article manufactured by the defendant's principal. Hildreth v. McDonald, 164 Massachusetts, 16; Singer Co. v.
Wilson, 2 Ch. Div. 447; Van Camp Co. v. Cruikshanks Co.,
90 Fed. Rep. 814; Von Muenser v. Wittenran, 85 Fed.
Rep. 966; S. C., 91 Fed. Rep. 126.
The provisions of our trade-mark treaties and our own
existing registration statute support defendant's contention here.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
Pore Baglin, Superior General of the Order of Carthusian Monks, for himself and the other members of the
Order, brought this bill in equity against the Cusenier
Company, a New York corporation, to restrain the infringement of trade-marks and unfair competition.
The complainant had a decree in the Circuit Court,
and this was modified in certain particulars, to which we
shall presently refer, by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The complainant then appealed to this court and motion
was made to dismiss the appeal, it being urged that the
decree below was not final. Complainant then petitioned
for a writ of certiorari, and this writ and a cross-writ
asked for by the respondent were granted.
The facts, so far as we deem it necessary to state them,
are as follows: For several hundred years prior to 1903save for a comparatively brief period following the French
Revolution-the Order of Carthusian Monks occupied
the Monastery of the Grande Chartreuse, near Voiron,
in the Department of Isere, in France. This was their

I3AGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mother House. There, by a secret process, they made
the liqueur or cordial which, at first sold locally, became
upwards of fifty years ago the subject of an extensive
trade and is known throughout the world as "Chartreuse."
The Monks originally manufactured the liqueur at the
Monastery itself and later at Fourvoirie, close by. It
was marketed, here and abroad, in bottles of distinctive
shape, to which were attached labels bearing the inscription, "Liqueur Fabriqu~e A la Gde. Chartreuse," with a
facsimile of the signature of L. Garnier, a former Procureur of the Order, and its insignia, a globe, cross and
seven stars; and these symbols with "Gde. Chartreuse"
underneath were also ground into the glass. In 1876,
the then Procureur registered two trade-marks in the
Patent Office, and these were re-registered in 1884, under
the act of 1881. In the accompanying statement the one
was said to consist "of the word 'Chartreuse,' accompanied by a facsimile of the signature of L. Garnier," and
the other "of the word-symbol 'Chartreuse;' " and the
combinations in which these were used were described.
In the year 1903, having been refused authorization
under the French law of July 1, 1901, known as the Associations Act, the congregation of the Chartreux was
held to be dissolved by operation of law and possession
was taken of their properties in France by a "sequestrating administrator and liquidator" appointed by the
French court. Forcibly removed from their former establishment, and taking their secret with them, the Monks
set up a factory at Tarragona, in Spain, and there according to their ancient process they have continued the
manufacture of the liqueur, importing from France such
herbs as were needed for the purpose.
The French liquidator, Henri Lecouturier, employing
a skilled distiller and chemical assistants, undertook by
experimentation to make at Fourvoirie a liqueur either
identical with or resembling as closely as possible the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

famous "Chartreuse;" and, having succeeded in this
effort to his satisfaction, he placed his product upon the
market under the old name. His agent in this country
under date of October 25, 1904, issued a circular containing the following announcement:
"I take pleasure in informing you that I have been appointed Sole Agent for the United States and Canada for
the Grande Chartreuse Liqueur. Within a few days I
shall receive a shipment and therefore will be able to
execute orders. As there is a very extensive demand for
this cordial, I shall not be able to fill large orders in full,
but I trust that, within a few weeks, I will have sufficient
stock on hand to enable me to satisfy the demand through
the Cusenier Company, whom I have appointed my distributing agents.
"Nothing has been changed in the putting up of the
products of the Grande Chartreuse, which bear the same
labels as heretofore, the only guarantee of authenticity and
of origin of the Chartreusemade at the Monastery."
The liquidator's cordial was shipped to this country,
and sold here, in bottles of precisely the same description
and with the same marks and symbols which had been
used by the Monks; if there was any difference it is frankly
stated to have been unintentional.
Meanwhile the Monks, debarred by the proceedings
in France from the use of their old marks and symbols in
that country, devised a new designation for their liqueur,
in which prominence was given to the words "Pres
Chartreux." The new label bore the inscription "Liqueur
Fabriqu6e a Tarragone par les Pbres Chartreux;" and
this was accompanied by the statement that "this liqueur
is the only one identically the same as that made at the
Monastery of the Grande Chartreuse in France, previous
to the expulsion of the Monks, who have kept intact the
secret of its manufacture." To negative the claim of
abandonment they made a small shipment to this country

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.

221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the old labels. And, both here and in other countries, the Monks have sought by legal proceedings to prevent the use of the word "Chartreuse" as a designation
of the liqueur made at Fourvoirie since their expulsion,
and the use or imitation by the liquidator or by those
claiming under him of the marks which the Monks had
associated with their product and the simulating in any
way of the dress or packages in which it had been sold.
For this purpose, this suit was brought against the defendant, who was then representing the liquidator in this
country. Pending it, the liquidator sold the property he
had acquired and the business he had been conducting in
that capacity to a company known as the "Compagnie
Fermire de la Grande Chartreuse," which has continued
the manufacture of liqueur at Fourvoirie and also its sale
in this country through the defendant as its representative.
On final hearing the Circuit Court adjudged "that the
word-symbol 'Chartreuse,' as applied to liqueur or cordial," and that "the said word-symbol 'Chartreuse' accompanied by the facsimile signature of L. Garnier," as
set forth in the certificates of registry in the Patent Office,
"constitute good and valid trade-marks, and in this
country have been and now are the sole and exclusive
property of said complainants, the Carthusian Monks or
Fathers (Pores Chartreux); and that in this country the
said complainants still have the right, and the exclusive
right, to use the said marks, or any of them, upon liqueurs
or cordials manufactured by the complainants." It was
further adjudged that the defendant had been guilty of
infringement of these trade-marks and of unfair competition, and the decree also contained a perpetual injunction.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree with
modifications which affect only the paragraph containing
the injunction. This paragraph as amended reads as

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

follows (the words inserted by the Court of Appeals being
italicized):
"It is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that defendant, its associates, successors, assigns, officers, servants, clerks, agents, and workmen, and each of them be,
and they hereby are perpetually enjoined from using in
this country or in any possession thereof, in connection
with any liqueur or cordial not manufactured by complainants, the trade-mark 'Chartreuse,' or of any colorable
imitation thereof unless so used as clearly to distinguish
such liqueur or cordial from the liqueur or cordial manufactured by the complainants-or the fac-simile signature
of L. Garnier, or any colorable imitation thereof-or any
of the trade-marks above referred to, or any colorable
imitation thereof; and they and each of them are likewise
perpetually enjoined from importing or putting out or
selling or offering for sale, directly or indirectly, within
this country, any liqueur or cordial not manufactured by
complainants, in any dress or package like or simulating
in any material respects the dress or package heretofore
used by complainants-and in particular from making
use of any [bottle or] label or [package] symbol like or
substantially similar to those appearingon 'Complainants'
Exhibit, Defendant's Liqueur,' being the bottle now on
file as an exhibit in this Court-and from in anywise attempting to make use of the good-will and reputation of
complainants in putting out in this country any liqueur
or cordial not made by complainants."
The defendant contends that the Circuit Court was
without jurisdiction. This objection must fail, as it sufficiently appears from the record that the controversy was
between foreign subjects and a New York corporation.
And there was also an assertion by the bill of a right under
the Federal statute, by virtue of the registration of the
trade-mark. Warner v. Searle & Hereth Company, 191
U. S. 195; Standard Paint Company v. Trinidad Asphalt

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Company, 220 U. S. 446, decided April 10, 1911; Jacobs v.
Beecham, decided May 15, 1911, ante, p. 263.
On the merits, the questions presented are (1) What
rights, with respect to the designations and marks involved, were enjoyed by the Carthusian Monks prior to
their expulsion from the French Monastery; (2) What effect upon their rights had (a) the liquidation proceedings
in France, and (b) the conduct of the Monks in relation to
the trade in the liqueur which they subsequently made in
Spain; and, in the light of the conclusions upon these
points, (3) To what remedy, if any, are the Monks entitled?
It is insisted that the judgment is erroneous in determining that "the word-symbol Chartreuse" constituted a
valid trade-mark. It is argued that "Chartreuse " is a
regional name; that the characteristic qualities of the
liqueur were due to certain local advantages by reason of
the herbs found and cultivated within the district described; that even as used in connection with the Monks'
liqueur it was still a description of place; and hence, that
at most, so far as this word is concerned, the question
could be one only of unfair competition.
The validity of this argument cannot be admitted upon
the facts which we deem to be established and controlling.
It is undoubtedly true that names which are merely
geographical cannot be the subject of exclusive appropriation as trade-marks. "Their nature is such that they
cannot point to the origin (personal origin) or ownership
of the articles of trade to which they may be applied.
They point only at the place of production, not to the
producer, and could they be appropriated exclusively, the
appropriation would result in mischievous monopolies."
Canal Company v. Clark, 13 Wall. p. 324. See also Columbia Mill Company v. Alcorn, 150 U. S. 460; Elgin National
Watch Company v. Illinois Watch Company, 179 U. S. 665.
This familiar principle, however, is not applicable here.
It is not necessary for us to determine the origin of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

name of the Order and its chief Monastery. If it be assumed that the Monks took their name from the region in
France in which they settled in the Eleventh Century, it
still remains true that it became peculiarly their designation. And the word "Chartreuse" as applied to the
liqueur which for generations they made and sold cannot
be regarded in a proper sense as a geographical name. It
had exclusive reference to the fact that it was the liqueur
made by the Carthusian Monks at their Monastery. So
far as it embraced the notion of place, the description was
not of a district, but of the Monastery of the Order-the
abode of the Monks-and the term in its entirety pointed
to production by the Monks.
It cannot be supposed that if, during the occupation by
the Monks of the Monastery of La Grande Chartreuse,
another had established a factory at Fourvoirie and there
manufactured a liqueur, he could have affixed to it the
name "Chartreuse" or "Grande Chartreuse" or "Gde.
Chartreuse" on the ground that these were place names
or descriptive of advantages pertaining to the locality. It
could not fail to be recognized at once that these were the
distinctive designations of the liqueur made by the Monks
and not geographical descriptions available to any one who
might make cordial in a given section of country. The
same would have been true if the Monks had voluntarily
removed and continued their manufacture elsewhere. As
was forcibly said by the Lord Chief Justice in the Court of
Appeal in Rey v. Lecouturier, [1908] 2 Ch. 715, p. 726: "To
test this question, let us suppose that the monks had
moved their manufacture to another monastery or another building in France and had sold the fabric of the
distillery and left the district of La Grande Chartreuse,
but had continued to make the liqueur in the same way;
could it be contended that any one who bought as old
bricks and mortar the distillery at Fourvoirie could immediately call any liqueur made there by the name of

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Chartreuse, and put it on the English market under that
name? It is to me quite unarguable."
The claim of the Monks to an exclusive right in this
designation as applied to the liqueur has been frequently
the subject of litigation and has repeatedly been sustained. In 1872, La Cour de Cassation in Le Pare Louis
Garnierv. Paul Gamier, 17 Annales, p. 259, held that "the
word Chartreuse, applied as a denomination to the liqueur
made by the religious community of which Pore Garnier
is the representative, is but an abbreviation and the
equivalent of a designation more complete; for it at once
indicates the name of the fabricants (the Chartreux); the
name or commercial firm of manufacture, which is no other
than the community of these same Chartreux, and finally
the place of manufacture, that is to say the monastery of
La Grande Chartreuse." It was concluded that the designation was the exclusive property of the Monks. Mr.
Browne, after quoting the above passage, adds: "That
single word" (Chartreuse) "contains a long history of
strife. It has repeatedly been held to be a perfect trademark, for the reasons just cited." Browne on Trademarks, § 582; §§ 407-410. See also 17 Annales, 241, 249;
Rey v. Lecouturier, supra, p. 726; Grezier v. Girard, and
others, United States Circuit Court, Southern District of
New York, 1876, not reported; A. Bauer v. Order of
CarthusianMonks, 120 Fed. Rep. 78.
We find no error, therefore, in this determination of the
judgment. The registered trade-marks were valid. In the
statements for registration, the symbols actually used in
combination were set forth. Take, for example, the mark
in the glass of the bottle, consisting of "Gde. Chartreuse"
under the globe, cross and seven stars. This undoubtedly
is a valid mark. And the same is true of the other marks,
shown on the labels attached to the bottles, which included the ecclesiastical symbols and the facsimile of the
signature of L. Gamier. It follows that up to the time
VOL. ccxxi-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

of their expulsion from the Monastery, the Monks were
entitled to protection against the infringement of these
marks, which were their exclusive property, as well as
against unfair competition.
The next inquiry is with respect to the effect of the
liquidation proceedings in France. Upon the application
of the Procureur of the Republic, the French court proceeded to the judicial liquidation of the properties in
France held by the non-authorized congregation of the
Chartreux, and it was of these properties that a liquidator
was appointed. It does not appear that the court assumed jurisdiction of the trade-marks registered on behalf
of the Monks in other countries. On the contrary, it appears to have been held that the question of the ownership
of such trade-marks was not involved in its determination.
After a successful contest of the liquidator with the Abbe
Rey, in which a judgment was pronounced to the effect
that the latter was an interposed person or passive trustee
under a deed of transfer found to be simulated, and that
the properties claimed by him personally were in fact
those of the congregation and subject to the liquidation,
the liquidator sought by way of interpretation of this
judgment to obtain a declaration that the assets of the
liquidation comprised the trade-marks registered in other
countries. On refusing the application (March 27, 1906),
the Court of Appeals of Grenoble used the following language,-showing that the question had not been determined in the previous decision, and also directing attention
to the character of the law under which the liquidation
was had as "a law of exception and police:"
"The claim of the receiver to the property of the trademarks registered in the foreign countries, raises the question whether the law of July first, nineteen hundred and
one, which is a law of exception and police, controls or not,
beyond the territory of the Republic, the properties of the
dissolved Congregations, and whether the trade marks

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

registered in foreign lands are an accessory of the commercial holding of Fourvoirie, thus coming under this title
into the liquidation, or whether they constitute a distinct
and independent property from this commercial holding;
"The question has not been debated between the parties, and the court would not have failed, if it had been
submitted to it, to treat upon it in the counts of its decision, in order to solve it in its disposition;
"The silence in this respect, exclusive of any debate
on this point, does not allow of admitting, as being implicitly contained in the decree, in an ambiguous or
equivocal form, the decision of which Lecouturier claims
the benefit, and as the interpretation which he solicits
from the court would have as effect to extend beyond
what was its sole object, the matter judged by the decree
of July nineteenth last;
"Such an application must be rejected as not receivable,
and it is left to Lecouturier to have recourse to such
means as may be deemed proper."
Hence defendant's contention is not that the French
judgments, under which its principal claims, "expressly
and directly settled the status of the marks abroad, but
that the said judgments were effective to vest in the defendant [liquidator] the business and good will inseparably
connected both in France and in this country with the
place and mode of fabrication and, therefore, gave him the
right, in virtue of the principles of our law, to use the trademark connected therewith."
Now what was the case with respect to the business to
which the trade-marks in this country related? That business consisted of the manufacture by the Monks, according to their secret process of a liqueur of which the marks
and symbols were the trade designation. They took their
secret with them to Spain and continued the manufacture
of the liqueur. The Monks' secret was not the subject of
seizure by the liquidator and did not pass to him. It is not
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

pretended that he or his vendee have manufactured the
liqueur at Fourvoirie under a formula or receipt derived
from the Monks, but it is maintained that a formula believed to be essentially similar has been arrived at by
experimentation, in accordance with which the liquidator
and the French Company have been making their liqueur.
We are not concerned with their authority under the
French law to conduct this business, but it is not the business to which the trade-marks in this country relate. That
business is being conducted according to the ancient
process by the Monks themselves. The French law cannot be conceived to have any extra-territorial effect to
detach the trade-marks in this country from the product
of the Monks, which they are still manufacturing.
The matter was put thus by Lord Macnaghten in the
House of Lords, in Lecouturier v. Rey, [1910] A. C. 262,
p. 265:
"To me it seems perfectly plain that it must be beyond
the power of any foreign Court or any foreign legislature
to prevent the monks from availing themselves in England
of the benefit of the reputation which the liqueurs of their
manufacture have acquired here or to extend or communicate the benefit of that reputation to any rival or
competitor in the English market. But it is certainly satisfactory to learn from the evidence of experts in French law
that the law of Associations is a penal law-a law of police
and order-and is not considered to have any extraterritorial effect. It is also satisfactory to find that these
legal experts confirm the conclusion which any lawyer
would draw from a perusal of the French judgments in
evidence in this case, that the sale by the liquidator of the
property bought by the appellant company has not carried
with it the English trade-marks, or established the claim of
the appellant company to represent their manufacture as
the manufacture of the monks of La Grande Chartreuse,
which most certainly it is not."

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And Lord Justice Buckley said in the Court of Appeal
(Rey v. Lecouturier), [1908] 2 Ch. 715, p. 733:
"Of course in this country a trade-mark can only be
enjoyed in connection with a business, but I think that
the monks are carrying on a business in connection with
which they can enjoy any trade-marks to which they may
be entitled, and the labels which were put upon the register,
and in respect of which the defendant Lecouturier has had
his own name placed upon the register. Are those trademarks the property of the plaintiffs? In my opinion they
clearly are."
If through his experiments the liquidator had not succeeded in making a liqueur which resembled that of the
Monks, he would have had no business to transact so far
as the liqueur was concerned and the transfer by operation
of law would not have availed to give him one. But the
property in the trade-marks in this country did not depend upon the success of the endeavors of the liquidator's
experts. The Monks were enabled to continue their business because they still had the process, and continuing it
they enjoyed all the rights pertaining to it, save to the
extent to which, by force of the local law, they were deprived of that enjoyment in France.
Failing to establish that the Monks were divested of
their exclusive rights in this country by the legal proceedings in France, it is insisted that these have been lost by
abandonment. This defence is based both upon non-user
of the old marks and labels and upon the efforts made by
the Monks, since their expulsion from France, to associate
their liqueur with a new designation-as the "Liqueur des
PNres Chartreux" or "Liqueur Febriqu6e i Tarragone par
les Pres Chartreux."
But the loss of the right of property in trade-marks upon
the ground of abandonment is not to be viewed as a penalty either for non-user or for the creation and use of new
devices. There must be found an intent to abandon, or the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

property is not lost; and while, of course, as in other cases,
intent may be inferred when the facts are shown, yet the
facts must be adequate to support the finding. "'To establish the defence of abandonment it is necessary to show not
only acts indicating a practical abandonment, but an
actual intent to abandon. Acts which unexplained would
be sufficient to establish an abandonment may be answered by showing that there never was an intention to
give up and relinquish the right claimed." Saxlehner v.
Eisner & Mendelson Company, 179 U. S. 19, p. 31. And
this court in referring in Singer Mfg. Co. v. June Mfg. Co.,
163 U. S. 169, p. 186, to the loss of the right of property in a
name "like the right to an arbitrary mark" by dedication
or abandonment, quoted with approval the definition of
De Maragy, in his International Dictionary of Industrial
Property as follows:
"Abandonment in industrial property is an act by
which the public domain originally enters or reenters
into the possession of the thing, (commercial name, mark or
sign,) by the will of the legitimate owner. The essential
condition to constitute abandonment is, that the one having a right should consent to the dispossession. Outside
of this there can be no dedication of the right, because
there cannot be abandonment in the juridical sense of the
word."
What basis is there in this case for a finding of intent
to abandon the old marks? It is to be remembered that
they were of a personal character, involving the adaptation of the name and the use of the ecclesiastical symbols of the Order. It is pointed out that, to show that
there was no intention to abandon, a shipment was made
to this country from Tarragona, of the Monks' liqueur,
under the old marks. But it is not necessary to rest on
that. The attitude of the Monks in their efforts here and
in other countries to prevent the use of the old marks
shows clearly that there has been no intention to abandon.

]BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It was natural enough that the Monks, unable to use their
former marks in France, should desire to bring into use a
designation which could be available there as well as in
other countries. But this is far from indicating the slightest disposition to surrender to the world the right to denominate liqueurs by the ancient name and symbols taken
from their own Order. As soon as the liquidator, as the result of his experiments, announced that he was prepared to
put upon the market "the Grande Chartreuse Liqueur"
under the same labels as theretofore,-" the only guarantee
of authenticity and of origin of the Chartreuse made at the
monastery, "-the Monks promptly asserted their rights.
The liquidator was not moved to the use of the marks
in question by any consideration of abandonment on the
part of the Monks, but by virtue of their exclusion from
their former abode and of the rights of succession which
he claimed under the French law. The main issue between the parties has been one of title, "each claiming a
right to the disputed marks to the exclusion of the other."
The respective parties, and those representing them, have
been in constant litigation in France and elsewhere since
the liquidator was appointed, and reviewing the facts in
this case we find no possible ground upon which it can be
said that the Monks have abandoned the rights they pcssessed.
We come then to the question of remedy.
In view of the acts of the defendant, with respect to
the marks, labels, and bottles shown to have been used
in connection with the liqueur made at Fourvoirie after
the removal of the Monks, the decree adjudging it guilty
of infringement and unfair competition was plainly right.
We are also of the opinion that the provisions of the injunction against infringement and simulation, set forth
in the decree of the Circuit Court, were proper.
In dealing, however, with the question of unfair trade,
'it is to be remembered that the liquidator, and the French

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Company to whom he sold, lawfully conducted the manufacturing business at Fourvoirie, and, of course, were entitled respectively to sell their product here. They were
entitled to state that they made it and the the place and
circumstances of its manufacture. In short, they were
not debarred from making a statement of the facts, including the appointment of the liquidator and the French
Company's succession by virtue of his sale, provided it
was made fairly and was not couched in language, or
arranged in a manner, which would be misleading and
would show an endeavor to trade upon the repute of the
Monks' cordial. It is also to be noted that the words
"Grande Chartreuse" form a part of the name of the
French Company which it, and the defendant as its representative, had a right to use in lawful trade. But
neither it, nor the defendant, was entitled to use the word
"Chartreuse" as the name or designation of the liqueur
it manufactured, and in any other use of that word, or in
any reference to the Monks, in its statement of the facts
it was bound by suitable and definite specification to
make clear the distinction between its product and the
liqueur made by the Monks.
These considerations, undoubtedly, led the court below
to modify the decree by inserting the words-"unless so
used as clearly to distinguish such liqueur or cordial from
the liqueur or cordial manufactured by the complainants."
But this insertion was made in connection with that portion of the injunction which related to the trade-mark, and
this, we think, was error. It amounted, by reason of the
juxtaposition with what preceded, to a permission to the
defendant to use the trade-mark "Chartreuse" or that
word as the name or description of its liqueur, provided
it were distinguished from the liqueur of the Monks. This
was inconsistent with the decree as to the ownership of
the trade-mark.
The modification, in this form, should therefore be

BAGLIN v. CUSENIER CO.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

struck out, but more completely to adapt the remedy to
conditions disclosed, there should be inserted in the
fourth paragraph of the decree-in that portion which
contains the injunction against unfair trade-a provision
restraining the use of the word "Chartreuse" in connection
with the sales of liqueur not made by the Monks, as the
name of or as descriptive of the liqueur, or without
clearly distinguishing it from the Monks' product.
The decree will be amended accordingly, as shown in
the margin.I
After the decision by the court below, application was
made by the complainants for an injunction against the
use by the defendant, in connection with its liqueur, of
the words "Pres Chartreux." The injunction was not
granted, but, the parties having been heard, the court ad'4. It is further ADJUDGED, ORDERED AND DECREED that defendant, its associates, successors, assigns, officers, servants, clerks, agents
and workmen and each of them be and they hereby are perpetually
enjoined from using in this country or in any possession thereof, in
connection with any liqueur or cordial not manufactured by complainants, the trade mark "Chartreuse" or any colorable imitation
thereof-or the fac-simile signature of L. Garnier or any colorable
imitation thereof-or any of the trade marks above referred to or any
colorable imitation thereof; and they and each of them are likewise
perpetually enjoined from importing or putting out or selling or offering
for sale, directly or indirectly within this country or in any possession
thereof, any liqueur or cordial not manufactured by complainants in any
dress or package like or simulating in any material respects the dress
or package heretofore used by complainants-and in particular from
making use of any label or symbol like or substantially similar to those
appearing on "Complainants' Exhibit Defendant's Liqueur," being
the bottle now on file as an exhibit in this Court-and from using the
word "Chartreuse" in connection with the importing, putting out, or sale
of such liqueur or cordial, as the name of or as descriptive of such liqueur
or cordial, or without clearly distinguishing such liqueur or cordial from
the liqueuror cordial manufacturedby the complainant-andfrom in any
wise attempting to make use of the good will and reputation of complainants in putting out in this country any liqueur or cordial not made
by complainants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

judged the defendant in contempt and imposed a fine. The
order was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and
the complainants have applied for a writ of certiorari,
which is granted.
In the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the
appeal from the decree on the main issue, there were
set forth two forms of labels which, it was suggested,
might properly be used by the defendant, printed in any
language. In the contempt proceeding it was shown
that the defendant followed closely one of these forms, but
used in place of the words "Carthusian Monks," as these
there appeared, the description "Pares Chartreux."
In view of the language of its opinion, and the permission it implied, it is clear that the court rightly held that
the defendant should not be fined for contempt. But, in
saying this, we do not wish to be understood as approving
the suggested forms of labels, for they seem to us objectionable in view of the arrangement of the inscription and the
special prominence given to the words "Grande Chartreuse." Nor does the making of a fair and adequate statement as to the liqueur of the defendant, its origin and manufacture, require the use of the words "P~res Chartreux,"
and we are unable to escape the conclusion that such use,
in the manner shown, was to serve the purpose of simulation, and to draw to the defendant's liqueur the reputation of that of the Monks, contrary to the provisions of
the decree.
For the reasons we have stated, the order of the court
below in the contempt proceeding is affirmed, but without
prejudice to any future application.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded with directions to enter a decree in favor of the complainants,
amending the decree entered in the Circuit Court in accordance with this opinion; and the order in the contempt proceeding is affirmed without prejudice to any
future application.

