OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

of the United States, cannot have the effect to cast upon
the Government an obligation not to exert its constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce except
subject to the condition that compensation be made or
secured to the individuals or corporation who may be
incidentally affected by the exercise of such power. The
principle for which the Bridge Company contends would
seriously impair the exercise of the beneficient power of
the Government to secure the free and unobstructed navigation of the waterways of the United States."
We have said enough to dispose of every essential question made in the case or which requires notice.
Judgment affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
TRODICK.

v.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 117.

Argued April 11, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Land within place limits of the Northern Pacific Land Grant Act of
July 2, 1864, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, actually occupied by a homesteader
intending to acquire title, did not pass bythe grant but were excepted
from its operation, and no right of the railroad attached to such
lands when its line was definitely located. Nelson v. Northern Pacific
Railway, 188 U. S. 108.
Where a bona fide settler was in actual occupation of unsurveyed lands
at the time of definite location of the line, the land occupied was
excepted from the grant; and if, before survey, he sold his improvements to one who also settled on the land intending to apply for title
under the homestead laws of the United States, the claim of the
latter is superior to that of the railroad company notwithstanding
the original settler had no claim of record.
A settler in actual occupation before the location of the definite line of

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. TRODICK. 209
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the railroad can stand upon his occupancy until the lands are surveyed, and his claim cannot be defeated by the railroad assuming
without right at a date prior to his application to assert a claim to
the lands.
Under the act of May 14, 1880, c. 89, 21 Stat. 140, delay on the part of
a homesteader in making application after survey cannot be taken
advantage of by one who had acquired no rights prior to the filing;
and so held, that where the Northern Pacific land grant had not
attached on account of actual occupation, delay on the part of the
settler in filing after survey did not inure to the benefit of the company.
Nelson v. Northern Pacific Railway Co., 188 U. S. 108, was not modified
by United States v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway, 218
U. S. 233, as to the rights of bona fide settlers which attached prior
to definite location.
Where, by error of law, the Land Office incorrectly holds a party is entitled to patent and issues it, the courts can declare that the patent
is held by the patentee in trust for the party actually entitled to
have his ownership in the lands recognized.
THE facts, which involve the rights of settlers on the
public lands and those of the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company under the act of July 2, 1864, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Charles Donnelly, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Thomas J. Walsh for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
In this suit, involving the title to the southeast quarter
of section 35, township 15 north, range 4 west, in the State
of Montana, the defendants McDonald and Auchard, now
co-appellants, claim title under patent issued by the
United States to the Northern Pacific Railway Company,
successor to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company to
which a grant of lands was made by the act of Congress of
VOL.

ccxxi-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

July 2, 1864. 13 Stat. 365, c. 217. The plaintiff Trodick,
now appellee, seeks to obtain a decree adjudging that the
title, under the patent, be held in trust for him, his contention being that he is the real, equitable owner of the
land by virtue of the homestead laws of the United States,
and that no patent therefor could rightfully have been issued to the railroad company. The Circuit Court of the
United States dismissed the bill with costs to defendants.
But the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree with
directions to give judgment for the plaintiff.
The facts in the case are few and are substantially undisputed.
By the third section of the act of 1864, Congress made
a grant of public lands to the Northern Pacific Railroad
Company in these words (so far as it is necessary to state
them): "That there be, and hereby is, granted to the
'Northern Pacific Railroad Company,' its successors and
assigns, for the purpose of aiding in the construction of
said railroad and telegraph line to the Pacific coast, and
to secure the safe and speedy transportation of the mails,
troops, munitions of war, and public stores, over the route
of said line of railway, every alternate section of public
land, not mineral, designated by odd numbers, to the
amount of twenty alternate sections per mile, on each side
of said railroad line, as said company may adopt, through
the territories of the United States, and ten alternate
sections of land per mile on each side of said railroad whenever it passes through any State, and whenever on the line
thereof, the United States have full title, not reserved,
sold, granted, or otherwise appropriated, and free from
preemption, or other claims or rights, at the time the line
of said road is definitely fixed, and a plat thereof filed in
the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office;
and whenever, prior to said time [of definite location], any
of said sections or parts of sections shall have been granted,
sold, reserved, occupied by homestead settlers, or pre-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. TRODICK 211
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

empted, or otherwise disposed of, other lands shall be
selected by said company in lieu thereof, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, in alternate sections,
and designated by odd numbers, not more than ten miles
beyond the limits of said alternate sections." 13 Stat.
365, 368.
The company filed its map of definite location on
July 6, 1882, but one Lemline was then in the actual occupancy of the land as a residence. He settled upon it
in 1877 and thereafter made claim to it as his homestead,
intending from the outset to acquire title under the laws
of the United States as soon as the land was surveyed.
He continuously resided on the land until his death, which
did not occur until 1889. A short time prior to his death
Lemline sold the improvements he had made on the land
to the plaintiff Trodick. This he had the right to do, although he did not hold the title. Bishop of Nesqually v.
Gibbon, 158 U. S. 155. The latter took possession of the
land on the death of Lemline. The lands had not been
surveyed when Lemline died or when Trodick went into
possession. They were not surveyed until August 10,
1891. Trodick applied on January 10, 1896, to make
homestead entry of the land, but his application was rejected "without prejudice to his right to apply for a hearing to determine the status of the land, July 6th, 1882,
when the right of the company became effective." In the
letter or opinion of the Commissioner of the Land Office,
addressed to the local Register and Receiver, under date
of December 24, 1898, it was said: "He [Trodick] applied
for a hearing August 10, 1896, whereupon notice issued
citing the parties in interest to appear at your office September 21, 1896. The hearing was continued from time
to time until April 16, 1897, when both parties were represented. It appears from the evidence adduced that one
Martin Lemline established his residence on the land,
with his family, in 1877, continued to reside there until his

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

death, some time in 1891, and his improvements on the
premises were of the estimated value of $1,000. Mr.
Trodick settled on the land in 1891, and since then has
continuously resided there. The material question for
determination in this case is this: Did the settlement
claim of Mr. Lemline except the land from the operation
of the grant to the company? It is undoubtedly true that
the land was occupied by Mr. Lemline when the right of
the company attached, that he was qualified to make
entry of the same and settled there with the intention of
doing so, as the circumstances indicate. Had he lived
until the plat of survey was filed in your office, he or his
wife would, without doubt, have been allowed to perfect
the claim by them initiated prior to July 6, 1882. Since
Mr. Lemline had no claim of record, and the claim of
Trodick had its inception subsequent to the definite location of the road, it must be held that the land inured to
the grant. (N. P. R. R. Co. v. Colburn, 164 U. S. 383.)
Your action is therefore approved and the application of
Trodrick is accordingly rejected, subject to the usual
right of appeal within sixty days."
In 1896 the railroad company contracted to sell the land
to Auchard, and in 1899 conveyed to him by warranty
deed. Subsequently, January 10, 1903, a patent was
issued to the railroad company.
The former decisions of this court clearly sustain the
decree rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals. According to the provisions of the act of 1864, the railroad
company could not acquire any vested interest in the
granted lands-even such as were within the primary
or place limits-until it made a definite location of its
line, evidenced by an accepted map of location; nor would
such location be of any avail as to lands, even in place
limits, which, at the time of definite location, were occupied
by a homestead settler intending, in good faith, to acquire
title under the laws of the United States. Lemline, we

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. TRODICK. 213
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have seen, was in the actual occupancy of the lands as a
homestead settler when the railroad company definitely
located its line. Therefore, the lands did not pass by the
grant of 1864, but were excepted from its operation, and no
right of the railroad attached to the lands when its line
was definitely located.
In St. Paul & Pacific v. Northern Pacific, 139 U. S. 1, 5,
a case arising under the Northern Pacific grant of 1864,
it was distinctly held that "land which previously to definite
location had been reserved, sold, granted or otherwise
appropriated, or upon which there was a preemption 'or
other claim or right' did not pass by the grant of Congress."
In United States v. Northern Pacific R. R. Co., 152 U. S.
284, 296, the court, referring to the same grant, said:
"The act of 1864 granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company only public land, . .
free from preemption or other claims or rights at the time its line of road
was definitely fixed and a plat thereof filed in the office of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office."
In Northern Pacific R. R. v. Sanders, 166 U. S. 620, 629,
it was said that the act of July 2, 1864, under which the
railroad company claims title excluded from the grant "all
lands that were not, at the time the line of the road was
definitely fixed, free from preemption or other claims or
rights."
In United States v. Oregon &c. R. R., 176 U. S. 28, 50, the
court held that the "Northern Pacific Railroad Company
could take no lands except such as were unappropriated
at the time its line was definitely fixed."
In Nelson v. Northern Pacific Railway, 188 U. S. 108,
121-124, 130, the court again construed the act of 1864.
That was the case of one who went upon and occupied
certain lands, within the place limits, before the definite
location of the railroad line, with the bona fide purpose
to acquire title under the laws of the United States. This
court said: "It results that the railroad company did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

acquire any vested interest in the land here in dispute in
virtue of its map of general route or the withdrawal order
based on such map; and if such land was not 'free from
preemption or other claims or rights,' or was 'occupied by
homestead settlers' at the date of the definite location on
December 8, 1884, it did not pass by the grant of 1864.
Now prior to that date, that is, in 1881, Nelson, who is
conceded to have been qualified to enter public lands under the homestead act of May 20, 1862, went upon and
occupied this land, and has continuously resided thereon.
The land was not surveyed until 1803, but as soon as it
was surveyed he attempted to enter it under the homestead laws of the United States, but his application was
rejected, solely because, in the judgment of the local land
officers, it conflicted with the grant to the Northern Pacific
Railroad Company. He was not a mere trespasser, but
went upon the land in good faith, and, as his conduct
plainly showed, with a view to residence thereon, not
for the purposes of speculation, and with the intention of
taking the benefit of the homestead law by perfecting
his title under that law, whenever the land was surveyed.
And for fourteen years before the railroad company by an
ex parte proceeding, and without notice to him, so far as
the record shows, obtained from the Land Office a recognition of its claim, and for sixteen years before this action
was brought, he maintained an actual residence on this
land. It is so stipulated in this case. As the railroad had
not acquired any vested interest in the land when Nelson
went upon it, his continuous occupancy of it, with a view,
in goodfaith, to acquire it under the homestead laws as soon as
it was surveyed, constituted, in our opinion, a claim upon
the land within the meaning of the Northern Pacific Act
of 1864; and as that claim existed when the railroadcompany definitely located its line, the land was, by the express
words of that act, excluded from the grant." Again, in the
same case, there appear these pertinent observations, ap-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. TRODICK 215
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

plicable in the discussion here: "If it be said that Nelson's
claim was that of mere occupancy, unattended by formal
entry or application for the land, the answer is that that
was a condition of things for which he was not in anywise
responsible, and his rights, in law, were not lessened by
reason of that fact. The land was not surveyed until twelve
years after he took up his residence on it, and under the homestead law he could not initiate his right by formal entry of
record until such survey. He acted with as much promptness as was possible under the circumstances. . . . So
far we have proceeded on the, ground that as the act of
1864 granted to the railroad company the alternate sections to which at the time of definite location the United
States had full title, not reserved, sold, granted or appropriated, and which were free from preemption or other
claims or rights at date of definite location, and authorized
the company to select other lands in lieu of those then
found to be 'occupied by homestead settlers,' Congress
excludedfrom the grant any land so occupied with the intention to perfect the title under the homestead laws whenever
the way to that end was opened by a survey."
To the same effect are numerous decisions in the Land
Department by different Secretaries of the Interior. Those
decisions are cited in the Nelson Case, 188 U. S. 126 to 131.
In view of the authorities cited, it must be taken that by
reason of Lemline's actual occupancy of them as a bona
fide homestead settler, at the time of the definite location
of the railroad line, these lands were excepted from the
grant and the railroad company did not acquire and could
not acquire any interest in them by reason of such location.
So that the issuing of a patent to it in 1903, based on such
location, was wholly without authority of law. So far
as the railroad company was concerned, the way was open
to Trodick, who had purchased the improvements from
Lemline and was in actual possession of the lands as a
residence, to carry out his original purpose to make appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

cation to enter them under the homestead laws, and thus
acquire full technical title in himself. He made such an
application in 1896, the railroad company not having at
that time any claims whatever upon the land; for it acquired nothing, as to these lands, by the definite location
of its line. He was admittedly qualified to enter lands
under the laws of the United States, but his application
was disregarded solely on the ground that, when the railroad line was definitely located, Lemline had no claim "of
record," and Trodick's application to the Land Office was
after the date of such location. This was error of law, as
the authorities above cited-particularly the Nelson Case
-show.
Lemline's entry and occupancy did not need, as
between himself and the railroad company, to be evidenced
by a record of any kind, for the reason, if there were no
other, that the lands which he settled upon with the purpose of acquiring title under the laws of the United States,
had not at that time been surveyed. He was not responsible for the delay in surveying, any more than was the
homesteader in the Nelson Case, for the neglect to survey.
He was entitled under the circumstances, having made his
application in proper form, and the railroad company having acquired no interest under the definite location of its
line, to wait until the land was surveyed and in the meantime to stand upon his occupancy, accompanied, as such
occupancy was, with a bona fide intention to acquire title
and to reside upon the lands. His claim on the land could
not be postponed or defeated by the fact that the railroad
company had assumed, without right, at a prior date, to
assert a claim to the lands as having passed by the grant
and to have become its property, on the definite location
of its line.
Some reliance is placed on the delay occurring after the
survey of the lands before Trodick made his homestead
application-the statute of May 14, 1880, c. 89, 21 Stat.
140, prescribing a certain period within which the home-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. TRODICK. 217
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

steader should act after the survey of the lands. But that
delay was immaterial as affecting the rights of the homestead applicant, because no rights of others had intervened
intermediate the survey and Trodick's formal application.
A similar question arose in Whitney v. Taylor, 158 U. S. 85,
97, and it was thus disposed of: "It is true that ยง 6 of the
act of 1853 (10 Stat. 246) provides 'that where unsurveyed
lands are claimed by preemption, the usual notice of such
claim shall be filed within three months after the return of
the plats of surveys to the land offices.' But it was held
in Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 87, that a failure to
file within the prescribed time did not vitiate the proceeding, neither could the delay be taken advantage of by one
who had acquired no rights prior to the filing. As said in the
opinion in that case (p. 90): 'If no other party has made
a settlement or has given notice of such intention, then no
one has been injured by the delay beyond three months,
and if at any time after the three months, while the party
is still in possession, he makes his declaration, and this is
done before any one else has initiated a right of preemption
by settlement or declaration,we can see no purpose in forbidding him to make his declaration or in making it void when
made. And we think that Congress intended to provide
for the protection of the first settler by giving him three
months to make his declaration, and for all other settlers
by saying if this is not done within three months any one
else who has settled on it within that time, or at any
time before the first settler makes his declaration, shall
have the better right.' See also Lansdale v. Daniels, 100
U. S.113, 117, where it is said: 'Such a notice, if given before the time allowed by law, is a nullity; but the rule is
otherwise where it is filed subsequent to the period prescribed by the amendatory act, as in the latter event it is
held to be operative and sufficient unless some other person had previously commenced a settlement and given the
required notice of claim.' The delay in filing, therefore, had

OCTO3ER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

no effect upon the validity of the declaratory statement."
In McNeal's Case, 6 L. D. 653, Secretary Vilas referred to
the act of May 14, 1880, 21 Stat. 140, which related to settlers on public lands and provided that their rights should
relate back to the date of settlement, the same as if he settled under the preemption laws. The entry in that case
was cancelled by the Commissioner. The Secretary said:
"There being no intervening claim, I see no reason why his
rights may not relate back to the time of his settlement,
even though he did not file for the land within three
months thereafter in strict accordance with the requirements of the act of May 14, 1880." We may add that the
Commissioner of the General Land Office made no objection, in this case, to Trodick's application on the ground
of his delay in making formal application. His decision,
in effect, conceded that the application was not objectionable and was not to be denied, except on the ground that
Lemline, who pre6eded Trodick in interest, had no claim
"of record" and that Trodick's formal application was not
made until after the location of the railroad line. It is
not for the railroad company to which was wrongfully
issued a patent to make an objection to Trodick's claim
which the Land Office would not make. The authorities
cited show that the grounds assigned by the Commissioner
were wholly untenable, as matter of law, in that he assumed
that the railroad company accquired an interest in the
land by the mere location of its line when Lemline was, at
the time, in actual occupancy as a homestead settler.
Attention is called to the decision at the present term
of United States v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry.,
218 U. S. 233. That case, it is contended, is authority
for the proposition that the railroad company, upon the
definite location of its line, under a land grant act, acquired a vested interest in the lands granted, unless there
was at the time some claim on the land "of record." It is
true the opinion in that case referred to the stipulation be-

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. TRODICK. 219
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tween the parties, to the effect that, at the time of the definite location of the road, "none of the lands described in
the bill of complaint had been covered by any homestead
entry, preemption, declaratory statement or warrant location or other existing claims of record in the office of the
Commissioner of the Land Office," and then proceeded:
"In that view, and if this were the whole case, then, beyond all question, the law would be in favor of the railway
company; for the grant of 1864 was one in prcesenti for
the purposes therein mentioned, and according to the settled doctrines of this court, the beneficiary of the grant
was entitled to the lands granted in place limits which had
not been appropriated or reserved by the United States
for any purpose, or to which a homestead or preemption
right had not attached prior to the definite location of the
road proposed to be aided. The grant plainly included
odd-numbered sections, within ten miles on each side of
the road, which were part of the public domain, not previously appropriated or set apart for some specific purpose
at the time of the definite location." The above words "of
record," it is supposed, show that the court intended to
modify the doctrine that a bona fide settlement upon unsurveyed lands, within place limits, which were entered
upon and occupied in good faith as a residence, before the
railway company located its line, with the intention of
acquiring title, after such lands shall have been surveyed,
gave the homesteader a "claim" on the lands which excepted them from the grant to the railroad company. But
this is an error. The words referred to were only intended
to describe one class of the claims, the attaching of which
to lands specified in an act of Congress, prior to definite
location, had the effect to except them from the granting
act. There was no purpose to modify the principles of
the Nelson Case.
It will serve no useful purpose to extend this discussion
of the cases cited, on behalf of the company, which, it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

alleged, distinguish this from the Nelson Case. The facts
bring the present case within the ruling of that case, and
we adhere to the principles there announced.
We are of opinion that as between the railroad company
and the appellee the latter has the better right to the land,
and that the Land Office incorrectly held that the company
was entitled to a patent. That was an error of law which
was properly corrected by the reversal in the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the decree of the Circuit Court, with directions to render a final decree recognizing Trodick's ownership of the lands in controversy and adjudging that the
title, under the patent was held in trust for him. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. HAMMERS.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 314.

Argued April 12, 13, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

Under the Desert Land Act of March 3, 1877, c. 107, 19 Stat. 377, as
added to by the act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1096, a desert
land entry is assignable.
Where a statute is so ambiguous as to render its construction doubtful
the uniform practice of the officers of the Department whose duty

has been to construe and administer the statute since its enactment
and under whose constructions rights have been acquired is determinatively persuasive on the courts.
There is confusion between the original desert land act of 1877 and the
act as amended in 1891 as to whether entries can be assigned, and
the court turns for help to the practice of the Land Department in
construing the act, and that has uniformly been since 1891 that entries were assignable.

