CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.

THE STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF-NEW JERSEY
ET AL. v. THE UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

Argued March 14, 15, 16, 1910; restored to docket for reargument April 11,
1910; reargued January 12, 13, 16, 17, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.
The Anti-trust Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, should be construed in the light of reason; and, as so construed, it prohibits all
contracts and combination which amount to an unreasonable or
undue restraint of trade in interstate commerce.
The combination of the defendants in this case is an unreasonable
and undue restraint of trade in petroleum and its products moving
in interstate commerce, and falls within the prohibitions of the act
as so construed.
Where one of the defendants in a suit, brought by the Government in a
Circuit Court of the United States under the authority of § 4 of the
Anti-trust Act of July 2, 1890, is within the district, the court,
under the authority of § 5 of that act, can take jurisdiction and
order notice to be served upon the non-resident defendants.
Allegations as to facts occurring prior to the passage of the Anti-trust
Act may be considered solely to throw light on acts done after the
passage of the act.

VOL. CCXXI-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

The debates in Congress on the Anti-trust Act of 1890 show that one
of the influences leading to the enactment of the statute was doubt
as to whether there is a common law of the United States governing
the making of contracts in restraint of trade and the creation and
maintenance of monopolies in the absence of legislation.
While debates of the body enacting it may not be used as means for
interpreting a statute, they may be resorted to as a means of ascertaining the conditions under which it was enacted.
The terms "restraint of trade," and "attempts to monopolize," as
used in the Anti-trust Act, took their origin in the common law and
were familiar in the law of this country prior to and at the time of
the adoption of the act, and their meaning should be sought from
the conceptions of both English and American law prior to the
passage of the act.
The original doctrine that all contracts in restraint of trade were
illegal was long since so modified in the interest of freedom of individuals to contract that the contract was valid if the resulting
restraint was only partial in its operation and was otherwise reasonable.
The early struggle in England against the power to create monopolies
resulted in establishing that those institutions were incompatible
with the English Constitution.
At common law monopolies were unlawful because of their restriction
upon individual freedom of contract and their injury to the public
and at common law; and contracts creating the same evils were
brought within the prohibition as impeding the due course of, or
being in restraint of, trade.
At the time of the passage of the Anti-trust Act the English rule was
that the individual was free to contract and to abstain from contracting and to exercise every reasonable right in regard thereto,
except only as he was restricted from voluntarily and unreasonably
or for wrongful purposes restraining his right to carry on his trade.
Mogul Steamship Co. v. McGregor, 1892, A. C. 25.
A decision of the House of Lords, although announced after an event,
may serve reflexly to show the state of the law in England at the
time of such event.
This country has followed the line of development of the law of England, and the public policy has been to prohibit, or treat as illegal,
contracts, or acts entered into with intent to wrong the public and
which unreasonably restrict competitive conditions, limit the right
of individuals, restrain the free flow of commerce, or bring about
public evils such as the enhancement of prices.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

The Anti-trust Act of 1890 was enacted in the light of the then existing practical conception of the law against restraint of trade, and the
intent of Congress was not to restrain the right to make and enforce contracts, whether resulting from combinations or otherwise,
which do not unduly restrain interstate or foreign commerce, but
to protect that commerce from contracts or combinations by methods, whether old or new, which would constitute an interference
with, or an undue restraint upon, it.
The Anti-trust Act contemplated and required a standard of interpretation, and it was intended that the standard of reason which
had been applied at the common law should be applied in determining whether particular acts were within its prohibitions.
The word "person" in § 2 of the Anti-trust Act, as construed by reference to § 8 thereof, implies a corporation as well as an individual.
The commerce referred to by th words "any part" in § 2 of the Antitrust Act, as construed in the light of the manifest purpose of that
act, includes geographically any part of the United States and also
any of the classes of things forming a part of interstate or foreign
commerce.
The words "to monopolize" and "monopolize" as used in § 2 of the
Anti-trust Act reach every act bringing about the prohibited result.
Freedom to contract is the essence of freedom from undue restraint on
the right to contract.
In prior cases where general language has been used, to the effect that
reason could not be resorted to in determining whether a particular
case was within the prohibitions of the Anti-trust Act, the unreasonableness of the acts under consideration was pointed out and
those cases are only authoritative by the certitude that the rule of
reason was applied; United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, and United States v. Joint Traffic Association,
171 U. S. 505, limited and qualified so far as they conflict with the
construction now given to the Anti-trust Act of 1890.
The application of the Anti-trust Act to combinations involving the
production of commodities within the States does not so extend the
power of Congress to subjects dehors its authority as to render the
statute unconstitutional. United States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156
U. S. 1, distinguished.
The Anti-trust Act generically enumerates the character of the acts
prohibited and the wrongs which it intends to prevent and is susceptible of being enforced without any judicial exertion of legislative power.
The unification of power and control over a commodity such as pe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

221 U. S.

troleum, and its products, by combining in one corporation the
stocks of many other corporations aggregating a vast capital gives
rise, of itself, to the prima facie presumption of an intent and purpose to dominate the industry connected with, and gain perpetual
control of the movement of, that commodity and its products in
the channels of interstate commerce in violation of the Anti-trust
Act of 1890, and that presumption is made conclusive by proof of
specific acts such as those in the record of this case.
The fact that a combination over the products of a commodity such
as petroleum does not include the crude article itself does not take
the combination outside of the Anti-trust Act when it appears that
the monopolization of the manufactured products necessarily controls the crude article.
Penalties which are not authorized by the law cannot be inflicted by
judicial authority.
The remedy to be administered in case of a combination violating the
Anti-trust Act is two-fold: first, to forbid the continuance of the
prohibited act, and second, to so dissolve the combination as to
neutralize the force of the unlawful power.
The constituents of an unlawful combination under the Anti-trust
Act should not be deprived of power to make normal and lawful
contracts, but should be restrained from continuing or recreating the
unlawful combination by any means whatever; and a dissolution of
the offending combination should not deprive the constituents of
the right to live under the law but should compel them to obey it.
In determining the remedy against an unlawful combination, the court
must consider the result and not inflict serious injury on the public
by causing a cessation of interstate commerce in a necessary commodity.
173 Fed. Rep. 177, modified and affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Sherman Anti-trust Act of July 2, 1890, and whether defendants had violated its provisions, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. John G. Milburn, with
whom Mr. Frank L. Crawford was on the brief, for appellants:

The acquisition in 1899 by the Standard Oil Company
of New Jersey of the stocks of the other companies was

not a combination of independent enterprises.

All of the

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

companies had the same stockholders who in the various
corporate organizations were carrying on parts of the one
business. The business as a whole belonged to this body
of common stockholders who, commencing prior to 1870,
had as its common owners gradually built it up and developed it. The properties used in the business, in so far
as they had been acquired by purchase, were purchased
from time to time with the common funds for account of
the common owners. For the most part the plants and
properties used in the business in 1899 had not been acquired by purchase but were the creation of the common
owners. The majority of the companies, and the most
important ones, had been created by the common owners
for the convenient conduct of branches of the business.
The stocks of these companies had always been held in
common ownership. The business of the companies and
their relations to each other were unchanged by the transfer of the stocks of the other companies to the Standard
Oil Company of New Jersey.
The Sherman Act has no application to the transfer to,
or acquisition by, the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey of the stocks of the various manufacturing and
producing corporations, for the reason that such transfer,
and acquisition were not acts of interstate or foreign commerce, nor direct and immediate in their effect on interstate and foreign commerce, nor within the power of
Congress to regulate interstate and foreign commerce.
United States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 1; In re Greene, 52 Fed.
Rep. 104.
The contracts, combinations and conspiracies of § 1 of
the Sherman Act are contracts and combinations which
contractually restrict the freedom of one or more of the
parties to them in the conduct of his or their trade, and
combinations or conspiracies which restrict the freedom
of others than the parties to them in the conduct of their
business, when these restrictions directly affect interstate

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.'

221 U. S.

or foreign trade. Purchases or acquisitions of property
are not in any sense such contracts, combinations or conspiracies. Contracts in restraint of trade are contracts
with a stranger to the contractor's business, although in
some cases carrying on a similar one, which wholly or
partially restricts the freedom of the contractor in carrying on that business as otherwise he would. Holmes, J.,
in Northern Securities Case, 193 U. S. 404; Pollock on
Contracts, 7th ed., p. 352. Such contracts are invalid because of the injury to the public in being deprived of the
restricted party's industry and the injury to the party
himself by being precluded from pursuing his occupation.
Oregon Steam Navigation Co. v. Windsor, 20 Wall. 68;
Alger v. Thacker, 19 Pick. 54. Combinations in restraint
of trade are combinations between two or more persons
whereby each party is restricted in his freedom in carrying on his business in his own way. Hilton v. Eckersley,
6 El. & Bl. 47.
The cases in which combinations have been held invalid at common law as being in restraint of trade deal
with executory agreements between independent manufacturers and dealers whereby the freedom of each to
conduct his business with respect to his own interest and
judgment is restricted. Morris Run Coal Co. v. Barclay
Coal Co., 68 Pa. St. 173; Salt Co. v. Guthrie, 35 Oh. St.
666; Arnot v. Pittston and Elmira Coal Co., 68 N. Y. 558;
Craft v. McConoughy, 79 Illinois, 346; India Bagging
Association v. Kock, 14 La. Ann. 168; Vulcan Powder Co.
v. Hercules Powder Co., 96 California, 510; Oil Co. v.
Adoue, 83 Texas, 650; Chapin v. Brown, 83 Iowa, 156.
The cases in which trusts and similar combinations have
been held invalid as combinations in restraint of trade all
deal with devices employed to secure the centralized control of separately owned concerns. People v. North River
Sugar Refining Co., 54 Hun, 354; S. C., 121 N. Y. 582;
State v. Nebraska Distilling Co., 29 Nebraska, 700; Poca-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

hontas Cokce Co. v. Powhatan Coal & Coke Co., 60 W. Va.
508.
A conspiracy in restraint of trade is a combination of
two or more to deprive others than its members of their
freedom in conducting their business in their own way by
acts having that effect. A combination to boycott is a
sufficient illustration.
The Sherman Act did not enlarge the category of contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint of trade.
United States v. Trans-MissouriAssociation, 166 U. S. 290;
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505;
Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S.
211; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Swift v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274;
Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight & Sons, 212 U. S.
227, all involved combinations, either expressly by the
terms of the agreements constituting them, restricting
the freedom of each of the members in the conduct of his
or its business, or in the nature of conspiracies to restrict
the freedom of others than their members in the conduct
of their business. The Northern Securities Case, 193
U. S. 197, was a combination which, through the device
adopted, restricted the freedom of the stockholders of
two independent railroad companies in the separate and
independent control and management of their respective
companies.
Purchases and acquisitions of property do not restrain
trade. The freedom of a trader is not restricted by the
sale of his property and business. The elimination of
competition, so far as his property and business is concerned, is not a restraint of trade, but is merely an incidental effect of the exercise of the fundamental civil
right to buy and sell property freely. The acquisition of
property is not made illegal by the fact that the purchaser intends thereby to put an end to the use of such
property in competition with him. Every purchase of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

221 U. S.

property necessarily involves the elimination of that property from use in competition with the purchaser and, therefore, implies an intent to effect such elimination. Cincinnati Packet Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179.
The transfer to, and acquisition by, the Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey of the stocks of the various
corporations in the year 1899 was not, and the continued
ownership of those shares with the control which it confers is not, a combination or conspiracy in restraint of
trade declared to be illegal by the first section of the
Sherman Act. Because of the common ownership of the
different properties in interest they were not independent
or competitive but they were the constituent elements of
a single business organism. This situation was not affected by the transfer to the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey, who had the same body of stockholders and
had controlled the separate companies and continued to
control them through the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey. These considerations differentiate the present
case from the Northern Securities Case, 193 U. S. 197.
The Northern Securities Case dealt with a combination of
diverse owners of separate and diverse properties which
were bound by the law of their being as quasi-public
corporations invested with public franchises to continue
separate, independent and competitive, creating through
the instrumentality of the holding company a common
control which would necessarily prevent competitive
relations.
There is no warrant for the assumption that corporations engaged in the same business are naturally or
potentially competitive regardless of their origin or ownership. If the same body of men create several corporations to carry on a large business for the economical advantages of location or for any other reason, and the
stocks of these corporations are all in common ownership, it is a fiction to say that they are potentially com-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

petitive or that their natural relation is one of competition.
The common owners of the Standard Oil properties
and business had the right to vest the properties and business in a single corporation, notwithstanding that such a
transaction might tend to prevent the disintegration of
the different properties into diverse ownerships. The
Sherman Act does not impose restrictions upon the rights
of joint owners.
The acquisitions prior to 1882 were lawful and their
effect upon competition was incidental. The purpose of
the trust of 1879 was to bring the scattered legal titles to
the joint properties then vested in various individuals into
a single trusteeship. The purpose of the Trust Agreement
of 1882 was to provide a practicable trusteeship to hold
the legal title to the joint properties, an effective executive
management and a marketable symbol or evidence of the
interest of each owner. The only question raised in the
case of State v. Standard Oil Company, 49 Oh. St. 137,
was whether it was ultra vires for the Standard Oil Company of Ohio to permit its stock to be held by the trustees
instead of by the real owners. The method of distribution adopted on the dissolution of the trust was the only
feasible plan of distribution. Each certificate-holder was
given an assignment of his proportionate interest in all
the companies. All being parts of the common business
there was no basis for separate valuations. The value of
the interest of every owner was dependent upon its being
kept together as an entirety. The transaction of 1899
was practically an incorporation of the entire business by
the common owners through the ownership of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey. That was the plain
purpose, object and effect of the transaction.
The first section of the Sherman Act deals directly with
contracts, combinations and conspiracies in restraint of
trade. The second section deals directly with monopoliz-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

221 U. S.

ing and attempts to monopolize. Monopolizing does not
enlarge the operation of the first section nor does its absence restrict the operation of that section.
The first section deals with entities, a contract, combination, a conspiracy; and the entities themselves are
expressly declared to be illegal, and may be annulled or
destroyed. The second section deals with acts.
At common law monopoly had a precise definition.
Blackstone, Vol. 4, p. 160; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent
City Co., 111 U. S. 756. Monopoly imports the idea of
exclusiveness and an exclusiveness existing by reason of
the restraint of the liberty of others. With the commonlaw monopoly the restraint resulted from the grant of
the exclusive right or privilege. Under the Sherman Act
there must be some substitute for the grant as a source
of the exclusiveness and restraint essential to monopolizing. The essential element is found in the statement of
Judge Jackson (In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 116) that
monopolizing is securing or acquiring "the exclusive right
in such trade or commerce by means which prevent or
restrain others from engaging therein." Exclusion by
competition is not monopolizing. Pollock on Torts,
8th ed., p. 152; Mogul Case, L. R. 23 Q. B. D. 615; (1892)
App. Cas. 51. Monopolizing within the act is the appropriation of a trade by means of contracts, combinations
or conspiracies in restraint of trade or other unlawful or
tortious acts, whereby "the subject in general is restrained from that liberty of . . . trading which he
had before." In the absence of such means or agencies of
exclusion, size, aggregated capital, power, and volume of
business are not monopolizing in a legal sense.
Swift v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, was the case of a
combination of corporations, firms and individuals separately and independently engaged in the business, together controlling nearly the whole of it, to monopolize
it by certain acts and courses of conduct effective to

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

that end when done and pursued by such a combination.
Richardson v. Buhl, 77 Michigan, 632; People v. North
River Sugar Refining Co., 54 Hun, 354; State v. Standard
Oil Co., 49 Oh. St. 137; State v. Distillery Co., 29 Nebraska, 700; Distilling Co. v. People, 156 Illinois, 448, and
Anderson v. Shawnee Compress Co., 209 U. S. 423, rest
upon special grounds and are not applicable to this case.
See on the other hand, In re Greene, 52 Fed. Rep. 104,
Jackson, J.; Trenton Potteries Co. v. Oliphant, 58 N. J.
Eq. 507; Oakdale Co. v. Garst, 18 R. I. 484; State v. Continental Tobacco Co., 177 Missouri, 1; Diamond Match Co.
v. Roeber, 106 N. Y. 473; Davis v. Booth & Co., 131 Fed.
Rep. 31; Robinson v. Brick Co., 127 Fed. Rep. 804. The
acquisition of existing plants or properties however extensive, though made to obtain their trade and eliminate
their competition, is not a monopoly at common law or
monopolizing under the Sherman Act, in the absence of
the exclusion of others from the trade by conspiracies to
that end or contracts in restraint of trade on an elaborate
and effective scale, or other systematic, wrongful, tortious
or illegal acts. When such monopolizing is present the
remedy of the act is to prohibit the offending conspiracies,
contracts, and illegal acts or means of exclusion, leaving
the individual or corporation to pursue his or its business
with the properties and plants that have been acquired
or created shorn of the monopolizing elements in the conduct of the business.
The acquisition of competing plants and properties
cannot be rendered unlawful by imputing to such acquisitions an intent to monopolize. The acquisition of
plants and properties does not exclude anyone from the
trade and therefore the intent to monopolize cannot be
attributed to such acquisitions. The proposition that an
acquisition of property is rendered invalid because of a
collateral intent to monopolize is not sustained by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

221 U. S.

authorities relied upon to support it. Addyston Pipe
Case, 85 Fed. Rep. 291, and cases there cited. The substantial acquisitions made by the owners of the Standard
Oil business antedated the Sherman Act and they resulted from separate transactions extending over a long
period of years. They were in all cases accretions to an
existing business. They formed an insignificant part of
the business as it now exists. The Sherman Act is intended to prevent present monopolizing or attempts to
monopolize. Whether acquisitions made many years ago
were or were not associated with an attempt to monopolize
has no relation with the present attempt at monopolizing.
The Standard Oil Company of New Jersey was not
monopolizing, or attempting to monopolize, or combining
with anyone else to monopolize, interstate and foreign
trade in petroleum and its products when this proceeding
was instituted, or at any time.
The ownership of the pipe lines has not been a means
of monopolizing. Substantially all of the pipe lines owned
by the Standard Oil companies have been constructed
by those companies. There has never been any exclusion
of anyone from the oil fields either in the production of
oil, or its purchase, or its storage, or its gathering or
transportation by pipe lines. Ownership of the pipe lines
does not give the Standard companies any advantages in
dealing with the producers which are not open to others.
The decree erroneously includes and operates upon
several of the appellant companies.
The sixth section of the decree is unwarranted and
impracticable in various of its provisions.
It was error to deny the motion of the appellants to
vacate the order permitting service upon them outside of
the Eastern Division of the Eastern District of Missouri,
and to set aside the service upon them of the, writs of
subpcena issued thereunder; and error to overrule the
pleas of the appellants to the jurisdiction of the court

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

over them. The appellants were not residents of the
Eastern District of Missouri nor were they found therein
when the order was made authorizing the service of
process upon them outside of the district. There was no
proceeding pending in that district involving a controversy for the determination of which the appellants were
necessary parties.
Mr. D. T. Watson, also for appellants:
The Government has failed to maintain the affirmative
of the issue made by the pleadings. Brent v. The Bank, 10
Pet. 614; The Siren, 7 Wall. 154; United States v. Stinson,
197 U. S. 200, 205.
The transfer in 1899 to the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey of the various non-competitive properties
jointly used by them as one property was not a restriction
of interstate trade, or an attempt to monopolize, or a
violation of the Sherman Act.
The Sherman Act permits trusts, combines, corporations and individuals to enter into and compete for interstate trade so long as they act lawfully. It does not seek
to regulate the methods nor forbid those who enter into
trade from doing their business in the form of a trust,
corporation or combine, provided they carry it on
lawfully.
The Standard Oil Company of New Jersey after 1899
might legitimately and properly compete for interstate
trade, notwithstanding the combination of the group of
properties gave it a great power, only provided it did not
restrain such trade or by unlawful means seek to gain a
monopoly contrary to the provisions of the Sherman Act.
There is nothing in this case to show that after 1899
the combination did unlawfully compete, restrict or seek
to monopolize interstate trade; yet such evidence was
indispensable to prove that the combination was violating the Sherman Act in 1906. See the Calumet & Hecla

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

221 U. S.

Case, Judge Knappen, 167 Fed. Rep. 709, 715; Judge
Lurton, 167 Fed. Rep. 727, 728; Judge Gray in United
States v. Reading Co., decided December 8, 1910.
There is a great difference between the Northern Securities-Case and the case at bar.
On the question of potential competition, the idea of
competition between properties all owned by the same
persons is a novelty. The idea that properties themselves
compete, and that if one man owns two or more he must
compete with himself, is startling. Competition between
joint owners is also novel. Fairbanks v. Leary, 40 Wisconsin, 642, 643; Whitwell v. Continental Tobacco Co., 125
Fed. Rep. 454.
Competition is the striving of two or more persons, or
corporations, either individually or jointly, for one thing,
i. e., trade; it is personal action; the strife between different persons. Properties do not compete. Their relative
locations may more readily enable their owners to use
them in competition, but of themselves and as against
each other, they do not compete.
This idea makes the Sherman Act read that the same
person or group of individuals shall not own and operate
two or more sites for refineries or for stores or for any
kind of manufactories which might be used by different
owners in competition. Joint Traffic Association Case,
171 U. S. 505, 567.
The words "potential" or "naturally competitive" are
not in the Sherman Act. Cascade Railroad Co. v. Superior
Court, 51 Washington, 346. The rule of potential competition refers only to the ownership of the physical
properties which produce the oil which goes into interstate commerce, and not to the oil itself. United States v.
E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1; Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 407.
The Sherman Act is a highly penal one. In a criminal
prosecution under the act the degree of proof is beyond a

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

reasonable doubt. In a civil suit under it, the degree is
not so great, but the proof must be direct, plain and convincing. United States v. Trans-MissouriFreightAssn., 58
Fed. Rep. 77; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193
U. S. 197, 401; State v. Continental Tobacco Co., 177 Mississippi, 1.
There is a distinction between private traders and railroad companies; and see also distinction under Sherman
Act between quasi-public corporations and private traders.
Trans-Missouri Case, 166 U. S. 290.
The mere method in which stocks are held is not prescribed by the Sherman Act; all methods are lawful if not
used to restrict trade or gain an unlawful monopoly.
Under the court's ruling the effectiveness of a large business organization may, by reason of that very fact, bring
it under the Sherman Act.
The decree below was not justified by the facts found by
the court; or by the Sherman Act; after the court in § 5
permitted the distribution among the shareholders of the
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey of the stocks held
by that company, it did without lawful authority so to do,
define and limit the method of that distribution; restrict
the distributees in the future sale, use and disposal of
their stocks; restrict the distributees in the sale, use and
disposal of their properties; and in the contract relations
thereafter to exist, as well as the use and disposition of
the different properties in such a drastic manner as to
greatly injure and destroy the value of the same and
render their future profitable use practically impossible.
The decree disintegrates properties built with appellants'
moneys for joint use so as to create units that never before existed and compels these units separately to carry
on business and compete with other units, directly contrary to the purpose of their creation. It allows the future
operation and use of the refineries, pipe lines, and other
properties of the appellants only under the vague and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

221 U. S.

indefinite, bf:t broad and comprehensive, terms of § 6 of
the decree, by subjecting those who in the future operate
them to attachment for contempt for unwittingly violating
vague and indefinite terms. It prohibits appellants from
engaging in all interstate commerce until the discontinuance of the operation of the illegal combination, thus inflicting a new penalty for an indefinite and uncertain
period.
All of such restrictions are unauthorized by the Sherman Act, are in violation of the settled rules governing
injunctions, and are contrary to the provisions of the
different decrees heretofore approved by this court under
the Sherman Act, and especially the one in the Northern
Securities Case.
The decree authorized by the Sherman Act is wholly
negative, and one that merely enjoins-stops an illegal
thing in operation when the petition is filed or which then
is foreseen. Lacassagne v. Chapius, 144 U. S. 124; E. C.
Knight Co. Case, 156 U. S. 1, 17; Harrimanv. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244, 289; Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 402; United States v. Reading Co.,
decided by Circuit Court of the Third Circuit, December 8, 1910.
The Sherman Act prescribes certain specific methods
of relief which are exclusive of all others. Noyes on
Intercorporate Relations, 2d ed., 1909, § 406; Greer, Mills
& Co. v. Stoller, 77 Fed. Rep. 1, 3; Minnesota v. Northern
Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 71; Barnet v. National Bank,
98 U. S. 555, 558; East Tennessee R. R. Co. v. Southern Tel.
Co., 112 U. S. 306, 310; Farmers' Bank v. Dearing, 91
U. S. 29, 35; United States v. Union Pacific Railroad Co.,
98 U. S. 569.
The decree hampers and greatly injures the value of
the stock of the stockholders, though they are not parties
to the bill.
A corporation, when party to a bill in equity, does rep-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

resent its stockholders, but only within the scope of corporate power, and not as to the individual rights of the
stockholder to do with his property as he chooses. Taylor
& Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 122 Fed. Rep. 147, 153, 154.
A corporation has no right to conclude or affect the right
of any shareholder in respect of the ownership or incidents
of his particular shares. Brown v. Pacific Mail Steamship
Co., Fed. Cas. No. 2025; 5 Blatch. 525; Morse v. Bay State
Gas Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 944, 946; Harriman v. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244, 288-290.
The decree follows the appellants and their properties
after the dissolution.
The Sherman Act closely limits and defines the power
of the court on a petition filed to give equitable relief.
The petition must pray that such violations shall be enjoined or otherwise prohibited; and it is these violations
of the act that the court may now enjoin, and only such
violations. Past unlawful competition does not deprive
parties of their right to conduct lawful competition.
New Haven R. R. Case, 200 U. S. 361, 404.
The Sherman Act does not give power to the courts to
strike down and disintegrate a non-competing group of
physical properties used to manufacture an article of
trade. These physical properties are bought and held
and used under state laws; they do not enter into interstate commerce and hence are not under Federal control.
New Haven R. R. Co. v. Interstate Com. Comm., 200 U. S.
361, 404; State v. Omaha Elevator Co., 75 Nebraska, 637.
The effect of the decree is ruinous. For instance, these
companies jointly own 54,616 miles of pipe lines, of which
the seven individual defendants and their associates built
over 50,000 miles, in which they have an investment of
over $61,000,000.
The decree splits up this pipe line system into eleven
parts, takes away from the owners, who jointly built the
pipe lines and who created the sub-companies, all control
VOL. ccxxi-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellants.

221 U. S.

over the different sub-companies, and compels the eleven
different parts to stand alone, independently of their
principal and of each other, to be hostile to and to compete with their principal and with one another.
Pipe lines are never parallel but always continuous,
and each line has a value which depends wholly upon its
connection with other parts of the system, and whether
all are used together as one whole. The carrying out of
the decree would cut the pipe line system into isolated
segments, prevent such use, and make the successful
operation of the pipe lines impossible.
The decree would especially destroy the value of the
stock of all shareholders who each had five shares or less.
The stockholders on August 19, 1907, holding from one to
four shares each numbered 1,157, and the stockholders
owning five shares each numbered 439, out of a total number of 5,085 stockholders.
Considering the case de novo, and not on the findings of
the court below, it is not true that when the petition in
this case was filed in 1906, the seven individual appellants
and their associates, private traders in oil, were, contrary to the provisions of the Sherman Act, carrying on a
conspiracy to restrain interstate and foreign trade in oils,
and to gain by illegal means a monopoly thereof.
The Federal law allowed and allows each of the individuals to compete freely for the interstate and foreign
traffic in oil and its products. He may use all the weapons
that his ingenuity and skill can suggest, to wage a successful warfare. His rights to compete are not limited to
merely such means as are fair or reasonable, but are only
limited to such as are unlawful and directly tend to the
violation of the Sherman Act. The Federal law also
allows and assures to each competitor whatever share,
however large, of the interstate or foreign trade in oil he
or they may win provided his means are not unlawful.
The Sherman Act was passed to protect trade and further

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

competition. It makes such restraint and monopoly a
crime and inflicts, on conviction, severe penalties for such
offense. It permits one set of competitors to purchase
the property of other competitors solely to avoid further
competition. The mere size of the competing corporations or combinations is immaterial.
The monopoly of a trade at common law was forbidden
because, and only because, it excluded all others from
practicing such trade, and seems to have been then
limited to a royal grant, as, for example, giving the exclusive right to manufacture playing cards. It was and
is a distinct thing from engrossing, regrating or forestalling
the market, all of which were based on the prevention of
artificial prices for the necessaries of life. No one of these
falls under Federal jurisdiction, but each is subject to
state control only.
The present litigation is between the Federal Government and certain of its citizens. The questions involved
are solely the rights of these Federal citizens and the effect upon those rights of the Sherman Act, and whether
these Federal citizens have violated the provisions of
that act.
There was and is no such thing as a Federal crime,
aside from express congressional acts, and as no such act
was in existence prior to 1890, as to the matters charged
in the petition, all the matters and things done by the defendants prior thereto are immaterial.
This case involves, and only involves, the question of
the restraint and monopolization of interstate and foreign
trade in oil in November, 1906, when the petition was
filed; it does not involve any alleged restraint or monopoly
of the oil industry in any of the States.
The appellants were lawfully entitled to so hold and
use in interstate trade all of its combined properties.
To succeed in this case, the Government must also show
that the said Standard Oil Company was then in 1906

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

using its power to actually restrain interstate or foreign
trade in oil, or was then in 1906 excluding or attempting
to exclude by illegal means others from said trade and
attempting to monopolize the same, or a part thereof.
The Sherman Act does not compel private traders,
however organized, to compete with each other. The character of the oil business was and is such that a great corporation was and is an economic necessity for carrying on
that industry. The growth and success of the Standard
Oil Company was the result of individual enterprise and
the natural laws of trade. It was not the result of unlawful means, but of skill, unremitting toil, denials and
hardships, and is an instance of where the continuous use
for forty years of skill, labor and capital reached a great
success.
To prove a violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act the
Government must clearly show that when the petition
was filed appellants were then actually restraining interstate trade in oil.
To prove a monopoly under § 2 of the Sherman Act,
the Government must show that the appellants were,
when the petition was filed, then using unlawful means
to maintain their control of the industry and that the
appellants were then by unlawful means excluding others
from said industry.
The Attorney General and Mr. Frank B. Kellogg, with
whom Mr. Cordenio N. Severance was on the brief, for the
United States:
It is immaterial that this conspiracy had its inception
prior to the enactment of the Sherman Law, or that many
of the rebates and discriminations granted by the railroads which enabled the defendants to monopolize the
commerce in petroleum antedated the enactment of the
Interstate Commerce Act; the principles of the common
law applied to interstate as well as to intrastate com-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

merce. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Call Pub. Co.,
181 U. S. 92; Murray v. C. & N. W. R. Co., 62 Fed. Rep.
24; Interstate Com. Comm. v. B. & 0. R. Co., 145 U. S.
263; Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Express Co., 93 U. S.
174; National Lead Co. v. Grote Paint Store Co., 80 Mo.
App. 247; People v. Chicago Gas Trust, 130 Illinois, 268;
Richardson v. Buhl, 77 Michigan, 632; State v. Nebraska
Distilling Co., 29 Nebraska, 700; Distilling & Cattle Feeding Co. v. People, 156 Illinois, 448.
From the earliest date these various corporations were
held together by trust agreements which were void at
common law. But whether they were void or not, the
combination was a continuing one; there was no vested
right by reason of the acquisition of these stocks by the
trustees, and when the Sherman Act was passed the continuance of the combination became illegal. United States
v. Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, cited and approved
in Waters-PierceOil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86; Thompson
v. Union Castle Steamship Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 251; United
States v. American Tobacco Co., 164 Fed. Rep. 700; Finck
v. Schneider Granite Co., 86 S. W. Rep. 221; Ford v. Chicago Milk Assn., 155 Illinois, 166.
The Standard Oil Company, through various defendant
subsidiary corporations is engaged in producing and purchasing crude petroleum in Pennsylvania, West Virginia,
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Oklahoma, Kansas and California;
in transporting the same by pipe lines from the States in
which the same is produced into the various other States
to the manufactories of the various defendants; in manufacturing the same into the products of petroleum and
transporting those products, largely in the tank cars of
the Union Tank Line Company (controlled by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey) to the various marketing places throughout the United States, and in selling
and disposing of the same. This clearly makes the defendants engaged in interstate commerce. Swift & Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

United States, 196 U. S. 375; Shawnee Compress Co. v. Anderson, 209 U. S. 423; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.
The amalgamation of the stocks of all these companies
in 1899 in the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey as a
holding corporation was a combination in restraint of
trade within § 1 of the Sherman Act. United States v.
Northern Securities Co., 193 U. S. 197; Harriman v.
Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244; Shawnee Compress
Co. v. Anderson, 209 U. S. 423; Swift & Co. v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274;
Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight, 148 Fed. Rep. 939;
212 U. S. 227; Burrows v. Inter. Met. Co., 156 Fed. Rep.
389; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Distilling & Cattle
Feeding Co. v. People, 156 Illinois, 48; Harding v. Am.
Glucose Co., 55 N. E. Rep. 577; Dunbar v. American Tel.
& Teleg. Co., 79 N. E. Rep. 427; Missouri v. StandardOil
Co., 218 Missouri, 1; Merchants' Ice & Cold Storage Co.
v. Rohrman, 128 S. W. Rep. 599; State v. International
Harvester Co., 79 Kansas, 371; InternationalHarvester Co.
v. Commonwealth, 124 Kentucky, 543; State v. Creamery
Package Mfg. Co., 126 N. W. Rep. 126.
The Northern Securities Case and other authorities cited
under this head are conclusive of the proposition that this
is a combination in restraint of trade. The court held that
the inhibitions of the Sherman Act were not limited to
those direct restraints upon trade and commerce evidenced
by contracts between independent lines of railway to fix
rates or to maintain rates, or manufacturing or other
corporations to limit the supply or control prices; that the
power of suppression of competition and therefore of
restraint of trade exercised or which could be exercised
by reason of stock ownership and control of the various
corporations, was as much in violation of the Anti-trust
Act as direct restraint by contract. There is nothing in
the act which can be construed to prohibit the suppression of competition by reason of stock control of railways

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

and at the same time to permit it in manufacturing industries, pipe line companies, or car line companies engaged in the manufacture and transportation of oil. The
contracts, combinations in the form of trusts or otherwise,
or conspiracies in restraint of trade, which are inhibited
by the first section of the act as applied to these classes of
corporations cannot be distinguished from those contracts, combinations in the form of trusts or otherwise, or
conspiracies in restraint of trade, when applied to railway
companies. The thing inhibited is the restraint of interstate commerce. The thing to be accomplished is
the maintenance of the freedom of trade. The inhibition
against the suppression of competition by any instrumentality, scheme, plan or device, to evade the act, applies to all corporations and all devices. The real point
is not the instrumentality or the scheme used to suppress
the competition, but whether competition is thus suppressed and trade restrained and monopolized. Nowhere
in the decisions of this court is there authority for the
proposition that combinations by stock ownership or the
purchase of competing properties is invalid as to railroads
but valid as to trading and manufacturing companies.
The act of Congress and the decisions of this court, so far
as the principle goes, places them upon the same plane.
In the argument of the Freight Association cases it was
urged by counsel that the inhibitions of the Sherman Act
in this regard did not apply to railroads, but only included
trading companies. It is now urged that they apply to
railroads and do not apply to manufacturing and trading
companies. But this court in the Freight Association
cases clearly laid down the rule that while there are points
of difference existing between the two classes of corporations, yet they are all engaged in interstate commerce,
that the injuries to the public have many common features, and that the inhibitions apply to all. 166 U. S.
322.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

The transfer of the stocks of these companies in 1899
to the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey had no
greater legal sanctity than the transfer to the trustees in
1882, nor was it different from the transfer of the stocks
of the Northern Pacific and Great Northern Railways to
the Northern Securities Company in 1901, two years
after the organization of the present corporate Standard
Oil combination. It is the usual course of reasoning urged
in all of these trust cases-because a person has a right
to purchase property, he may therefore purchase a competitor, and because he may purchase one competitor he
may purchase all of his competitors, and what an individual may do a corporation may do. These were the
identical arguments pressed with great ability by counsel
in the Northern Securities Case and in the subsequent case
of Harriman v. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 291;
but this court held to the contrary. The position is also
contrary to the almost universal trend of the American
decisions both Federal and state. The exercise of an individual right disconnected from all other circumstances
may be legal, but when taken together with the other
circumstances may accomplish the prohibited thing.
The second section of the act prohibits a person or a
single corporation from monopolizing or attempting to
monopolize any part of the commerce of the country by
any means whatever, and also from conspiring with any
other person or persons to accomplish the same object.
The two sections of the act were manifestly not intended
to cover the same thing; otherwise the second section
would be useless. Any contract or combination in the
form of a trust or otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of
trade which tends to monopoly is prohibited by the first
section. Addyston Pipe Case, 175 U. S. 211; United States
v. Northern Securities Co., 193 U. S. 334.
The question then is: What is the meaning of the word
"monopoly," as used in the second section of the act?

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Of course Congress did not have in mind monopoly by
legislative or executive grant. National Cotton Oil Co. v.
Texas, 197 U. S. 129; Burrows v. Inter. Met. Co., 156 Fed.
Rep. 389, opinion by Judge Holt. Such monopolies could
not exist in this country except by grant of Congress or
the States, and it has been held that exclusive grants to
pursue an ordinary legitimate business are void. Butchers'
Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 754. Neither
did Congress have in mind an absolute monopoly. This
can only be obtained by legislative grant. In a country
like ours, where everyone is free to enter the field of industry, no absolute monopoly is probable. It is sufficient
to bring it within the act if the combination or the aggregation of capital "tends to monopoly . . . or are
reasonably calculated to bring about the things forbidden." Waters-Pierce Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86. Originally monopoly meant a grant by sovereign power of the
exclusive right to carry on any employment. The only
act of exclusion was the grant itself. If the grant was
void, then there was no monopoly. These monopolies
were common in all monarchial countries. Monopoly,
however, came to have a broader meaning under the
common law in the later days, and especially in the
United States, and in order to arrive at what Congress
intended by the act of 1890 it is important to understand
the history of the times and the general understanding
of monopoly as defined by the courts and the political
economists, and the monopolies which were known to the
people generally and against which Congress was legislating. Prior to the passage of this law, the various trust
cases had been decided, in which trusts, like the Standard
Oil of 1882, had been held illegal because they tended to
create a monopoly. People v. North River Sugar Refining
Co., 54 Hun, 354; State v. Nebraska Distilling Co., 29 Nebraska, 700; State v. Standard Oil Co., 49 Oh. St. 137.
Various other decisions had defined monopoly as known

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

in this country,-such cases as Alger v. Thacher, 19 Pick.
51; People v. Chicago Gas Trust, 130 Illinois, 268; Salt Co.
v. Guthrie, 35 Oh. St. 666; Craft v. McConoughy, 79 Illinois, 346; Central R. R. Co. v. Collins, 40 Georgia, 582.
These cases were decided before the Sherman Act was
passed, and defined monopoly at common law as it was
understood and existed in this country. They embrace
trusts like the Standard Oil trust; agreements fixing prices,
dividing territory, or limiting production, thereby tending to enhance or control the price of products; general
agreements restraining individuals from engaging in any
employment except as incident to the sale of property;
purchases by corporations of all or a large proportion
of competing manufacturing or mechanical plants; combinations of separate businesses in the form of partnership
but really for the purpose of controlling the trade; and
various other forms of acquiring monopoly. There was no
unlawful exclusion of anyone else from doing business in
these cases. They show that the term "monopoly" as
applied in American jurisprudence meant monopoly acquired by mere individual acts, as distinguished from
grant of government, although the individual act in and
of itself was not illegal; the concentration of business in
the hands of one combination, corporation, or person, so
as to give control of the product or prices; as said by
Mr. Justice McKenna, in the Colton Oil Case, "all suppression of competition, by unification of interest or
management."
The case of Craft v. McConoughy, supra, well illustrates
this argument. The pretended copartnership formed between the dealers of the town of Rochelle, while carrying on the business separately, enabled them to control
the prices to the detriment of the surrounding country.
It was therefore a monopolizing or an attempt to monopolize a part of the commerce of the State; and the monopolization would have been just as effective had these sepa-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for the United

tates.

rate business enterprises been stock corporations and the
stock placed in the hands of a holding company. A
similar illustration was the case of Smiley v. Kansas, 196
U. S. 447 (affirming 65 Kansas, 240), in which an attempt
to control the grain trade of a particular station was held
illegal under a state statute. The Standard combination
is an attempt to control and monopolize a vast commerce
of the entire country, as these people undertook to control and monopolize a local commerce.
The term "monopoly," therefore, as used in the Sherman Act was intended to cover such monopolies or attempts to monopolize as were known to exist in this
country; those which were defined as illegal at common
law by the States, when applied to intrastate commerce,
and those which were known to Congress when the act
was passed. The monopoly most commonly known in
this country, and which the debates in Congress I show
were intended to be prohibited by the act, were those
acquired by combination (by purchase or otherwise) of
competing concerns. The purchase of a competitor, as a
separate transaction standing alone, was the exercise of a
lawful privilege, not in and of itself unlawful at common
law nor prohibited by statute, yet in the Northern Securities Case the purchase of stock in a railway was held
to be illegal when done in pursuance of a scheme of
monopoly.
It is not necessary in this case, and we doubt whether
in any case it is possible, to make a comprehensive definition of monopoly which will cover every case that might
arise. It is sufficient if the case at bar clearly comes
within the provisions of the act. We believe that the defendants have acquired a monopoly by means of a combination of the principal manufacturing concerns through
'Cong. Rec., Vol. 21, part 3, pp. 2456-2460, 2562, 2645, 2726, 2728,
2791, 2928; Cong. Rec., Vol. 21, part 5, pp. 4089, 4093, 4098, 4101;

Vol. 21, part 6, p. 5954.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for the United States.

221 U. S.

a holding company; that they have, by reason of the very
size of the combination, been able to maintain this monopoly through unfair methods of competition, discriminatory freight rates, and other means set forth in the
proofs. If this act did not mean this kind of monopoly,
we doubt if there is such a thing in this country. The men
who framed the Constitution of this country were familiar with the history of monopolies growing out of acts
of the Government. They guarded the people against
these by constitutional provisions, but they left open the
widest field for the exercise of individual enterprise, and
it was the abuse of these personal privileges, made easy
by state laws permitting unlimited incorporation, which
gave rise to the evils that convinced the people of the necessity for the passage of the Sherman Anti-trust Act. It
was not monopolies as known to the English common
law, but monopolies such as were commonly understood
to exist in this country which that act prohibited.
As a natural conclusion from the foregoing definition
of monopoly by appellants' counsel they claim that the
inhibitions of the second section are against the unlawful
means used to acquire the monopoly, but that acquired
monopoly is not illegal; therefore that the court can only
restrain the means by which the monopoly was acquired,
leaving the monopoly to exist. We believe this to be an
altogether too refined construction of the act. If such be
the true interpretation, the result would be that one could
combine all the separate manufactures in a given branch
of industry in this country by use of unlawful means such
as discriminatory freight rates, but, if not attacked by the
Government before it had obtained complete control of
the business, its very size, with its ramifications through
all the States, would make it impossible for anyone else to
compete, and it could control the price of products in the
entire country and would be beyond the reach of the law.
It could, by selling at a low price where a competitor was

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

engaged in business and by raising the price where there
was no attempt at competition, absolutely control the
business without itself suffering any loss; and yet the
Government would be powerless to destroy the monopoly
because the unlawful means had been abandoned.
If the court finds this combination to be in restraint of
trade and a monopoly, it is authorized by § 3 to enjoin
the same and has plenary power to make such decree as
is necessary to enforce the terms and provisions of the
act. Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S.
336, 337, 344; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375;
United States v. Marigold, 9 How. 560, 566; Crutcher v.
Kentucky, 141 U. S. 57; In re Rapier, 143 U. S. 110; The
Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321; United States v. GeneralPaper
Co., opinion of Judge Sanborn in settling the decree, not
reported; United States v. American Tobacco Co., 164 Fed.
Rep. 700; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Union Pacific R. R. Co., 47 Fed. Rep. 15, 26.
Evidence that the defendant companies obtained rebates and discriminatory rates in the transportation of
their product as against their competitors, and engaged in
unfair and oppressive methods of competition thereby
destroying the smaller manufacturers and dealers throughout the country, is material in this case. State of Missouri
v. Standard Oil Co., 218 Missouri, 1; State of Minnesota v.
Standard Oil Co., 126 N. W. Rep. 527; Standard Oil Co. v.
State of Tennessee, 117 Tennessee, 618; S. C., 120 Tennessee, 86; S. C., 217 U. S. 413; State of South Dakota v. Central
Lumber Co., 123 N. W. Rep. 504; Citizens' Light, Heat &
Power Co. v. Montgomery, 171 Fed. Rep. 553; State of Nebraska v. Drayton, 82 Nebraska, 254; S. C., 117 N. W. Rep.
769; People v. American Ice Co., 120 N. Y. Supp. 443.
A person or corporation joining a conspiracy after it is
formed, and thereafter aiding in its execution, becomes
from that time as much a conspirator as if he originally
designed and put it into operation. United States v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Standard Oil Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 294; Lincoln v. Claflin, 7
Wall. 132; United States v. Babcock, 24 Fed. Cas. 915,
No. 14,487; United States v. Cassidy, 67 Fed. Rep. 698,
702; The Anarchist Case, 122 Illinois, 1; United States v.
Johnson, 26 Fed. Rep. 682, 684; People v. Mather, 4
Wend. 230.
This conspiracy was a continuing offense. Every overt
act committed in furtherance thereof was a renewal of the
same as to all of the parties. The statute of limitations
does not begin to run until the commission of the last
overt act. Neither can the parties claim a vested right to
violate the law. 19 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 2d ed,
"Limitations of Actions;" United States v. Greene, 115
Fed. Rep. 343; Ochs v. People, 124 Illinois, 399; Spies v.
People, 122 Illinois, 1; 8 Cyc. 678; State v. Pippin, 88
N. Car. 646; United States v. Bradford, 148 Fed. Rep.
413; Commonwealth v. Bartilson, 85 Pa. St. 489; People
v. Mather, 4 Wend. 261; State v. Kemp, 87 No. Car. 538;
American Fire Ins. Co. v. State, 22 So. Rep. (Miss.) 99;
Lorenz v. United States, 24 App. D. C. 337; People v.
Willis, 23 Misc. (N. Y.) 568; Raleigh v. Cook, 60 Texas,
438; Commonwealth v. Gillespie, 10 Am. Dec. (Pa.) 480.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and 33 other
corporations, John D. Rockefeller, William Rockefeller
and five other individual defendants prosecute this appeal
to reverse a decree of the court below. Such decree was
entered upon a bill filed by the United States under authority of § 4, of the act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, p. 209, known as
the Anti-trust Act, and had for its object the enforcement
of the provisions of that act. The record is inordinately
voluminous, consisting of twenty-three volumes of printed
matter, aggregating about twelve thousand pages, containing a vast amount of confusing and conflicting testi-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mony relating to innumerable, complex and varied business transactions, extending over a period of nearly forty
years. In an effort to pave the way to reach the subjects
which we are called upon to consider, we propose at the
outset, following the order of the bill, to give the merest
possible outline of its contents, to summarize the answer,
to indicate the course of the trial, and point out briefly the
decision below rendered.
The bill and exhibits, covering one hundred and seventy pages of the printed record, was filed on November 15,
1906. Corporations known as Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey, Standard Oil Company of California, Standard Oil Company of Indiana, Standard Oil Company of
Iowa, Standard Oil Company of Kansas, Standard Oil
Company of Kentucky, Standard Oil Company of Nebraska, Standard Oil Company of New York, Standard
Oil Company of Ohio and sixty-two other corporations
and partnerships, as also seven individuals were named as
defendants. The bill was divided into thirty numbered
sections, and sought relief upon the theory that the various defendants were engaged in conspiring "to restrain the
trade and commerce in petroleum, commonly called 'crude
oil,' in refined oil, and in the other products of petroleum,
among the several States and Territories of the United
States and the District of Columbia and with foreign nations, and to monopolize the said commerce." The conspiracy was alleged to have been formed in or about the
year 1870 by three of the individual defendants, viz:
John D. Rockefeller, William Rockefeller and Henry M.
Flagler. The detailed averments concerning the alleged
conspiracy were arranged with reference to three periods,
the first from 1870 to 1882, the second from 1882 to 1899,
and the third from 1899 to the time of the filing of the
bill.
The general charge concerning the period from 1870 to
1882 was as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

"That during said first period the said individual defendants, in connection with the Standard Oil Company
of Ohio, purchased and obtained interests through stock
ownership and otherwise in, and entered into agreements
with, various persons, firms, corporations, and limited
partnerships engaged in purchasing, shipping, refining, and
selling petroleum and its products among the various
States for the purpose of fixing the price of crude and refined oil and the products thereof, limiting the production
thereof, and controlling the transportation therein, and
thereby restraining trade and commerce among the several States, and monopolizing the said commerce."
To establish this charge it was averred that John D.
and William Rockefeller and several other named individuals, who, prior to 1870, composed three separate partnerships engaged in the business of refining crude oil and
shipping its products in interstate commerce, organized
in the year 1870, a corporation known as the Standard
Oil Company of Ohio and transferred to that company
the business of the said partnerships, the members thereof
becoming, in proportion to their prior ownership, stockholders in the corporation. It was averred that the other
individual defendants soon afterwards became participants
in the illegal combination and either transferred property
to the corporation or to individuals to be held for the benefit of all parties in interest in proportion to their respective
interests in the combination; that is, in proportion to their
stock ownership in the Standard Oil Company of Ohio.
By the means thus stated, it was charged that by the year
1872, the combination had acquired substantially all but
three or four of the thirty-five or forty oil refineries located in Cleveland, Ohio. By reason of the power thus
obtained and in further execution of the intent and purpose to restrain trade and to monopolize the commerce,
interstate as well as intrastate, in petroleum and its products, the bill alleged that the combination and its mem-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bers obtained large preferential rates and rebates in many
and devious ways over their competitors from various railroad companies, and that by means of the advantage thus
obtained many, if not virtually all, competitors were forced
either to become members of the combination or were
driven out of business; and thus, it was alleged, during the
period in question the following results were brought about:
a. That the combination, in addition to the refineries in
Cleveland which it had acquired as previously stated,
and which it had either dismantled to limit production or
continued to operate, also from time to time acquired a
large number of refineries of crude petroleum, situated
in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and elsewhere. The
properties thus acquired, like those previously obtained,
although belonging to and being held for the benefit of
the combination, were ostensibly divergently controlled,
some of them being put in the name of the Standard Oil
Company of Ohio, some in the name of corporations or
limited partnerships affiliated therewith, or some being
left in the name of the original owners who had become
stockholders in the Standard Oil Company of Ohio and
thus members of the alleged illegal combination. b. That
the combination had obtained control of the pipe lines
available for transporting oil from the oil fields to the
refineries in Cleveland, Pittsburg, Titusville, Philadelphia,
New York and New Jersey. c. That the combination
during the period named had obtained a complete mastery
over the oil industry, controlling 90 per cent of the business
of producing, shipping, refining and selling petroleum and
its products, and thus was able to fix the price of crude
and refined petroleum and to restrain and monopolize all
interstate commerce in those products.
The averments bearing upon the second period (1882 to
1899) had relation to the claim:
"That during the said second period of conspiracy the
defendants entered into a contract and trust agreement,
VOL. ccxxi-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

by which various independent firms, corporations, limited
partnerships and individuals engaged in purchasing, transporting, refining, shipping and selling oil and the products
thereof among the various States turned over the management of their said business, corporations and limited partnerships to nine trustees, composed chiefly of certain individuals defendant herein, which said trust agreement was
in restraint of trade and commerce and in violation of law,
as hereinafter more particularly alleged."
The trust agreement thus referred to was set out in the
bill. It was made in January, 1882. By its terms the
stock of forty corporations, including the Standard Oil
Company of Ohio, and a large quantity of various properties which had been previously acquired by the alleged
combination and which was held in diverse forms, as we
have previously indicated, for the benefit of the members
of the combination, was vested in the trustees and their
successors, "to be held for all parties in interest jointly."
In the body of the trust agreement was contained a list of
the various individuals and corporations and limited partnerships whose stockholders and members, or a portion
thereof, became parties to the agreement. This list is in
the margin. 1
11st. All the stockholders and members of the following corporations and limited partnerships, to wit:
Acme Oil Company, New York.
Acme Oil Company, Pennsylvania.
Atlantic Refining Company of Philadelphia.,
Bush & Co. (Limited).
Camden Consolidated Oil Company.
Elizabethport Acid Works.
Imperial Refining Company (Limited).
Charles Pratt & Co.
Paine, Ablett & Co.
Standard Oil Company, Ohio.
Standard Oil Company, Pittsburg.
Smith's Ferry Oil Transportation Company.
Solar Oil Company (Limited).

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The agreement made provision for the method of controlling and managing the property by the trustees, for
the formation of additional manufacturing, etc., corporaSone & Fleming Manufacturing Company (Limited).
Also all the stockholders and members of such other corporations
and limited partnerships as may hereafter join in this agreement at
the request of the trustees herein provided for.
2d. The following individuals, to wit:
W. C. Andrews, John D. Archbold, Lide K. Arter, J. A. Bostwick,
Benjamin Brewster, D. Bushnell, Thomas C. Bushnell, J. N. Camden,
Henry L. Davis, H. M. Flagler, Mrs. H. M. Flagler, John Huntington,
H. A. Hutchins, Charles F. G. Heye, A. B. Jennings, Charles Lockhart,
A. M. McGregor, William H. Macy, William H. Macy, jr., estate of
Josiah Macy, William H. Macy, jr., executor; 0. H. Payne, A. J.
Pouch, John D. Rockefeller, William Rockefeller, Henry H. Rogers,
W. P. Thompson, J. J. Vandcrgrift, William T. Wardwell, W. G. Warden, Joseph L. Warden, Warden, Frew & Co., Louise C. Wheaton,
H. M. Hanna, and George W. Chapin, D. M. Harkness, D. M. Harkness, trustee, S. V. Harkness, 0. H. Payne, trustee; Charles Pratt,
Horace A. Pratt, C. M. Pratt, Julia H. York, George H. Vilas, M. R.
Keith, trustees, George F. Chester.
Also all such individuals as may hereafter join in the agreement at
the request of the trustees herein provided for.
3d. A portion of the stockholders and members of the following
corporations and limited partnerships, to wit:
American Lubricating Oil Company.
Baltimore United Oil Company.
Beacon Oil Company.
Bush & Denslow Manufacturing Company.
Central Refining Co. of Pittsburg.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Company.
Chess Carley Company.
Consolidated Tank Line Company.
Inland Oil Company.
Keystone Refining Company.
Maverick Oil Company.
National Transit Company.
Portland Kerosene Oil Company.
Producers' Consolidated Land and Petroleum Company.
Signal Oil Works (Limited).
Thompson & Bedford Company (Limited).

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

,

221 U. S.

tions in various States, and the trust, unless terminated by
a mode specified, was to continue "during the lives of the
survivors and survivor of the trustees named in the agreement and for twenty-one years thereafter." The agreement provided for the issue of Standard Oil Trust certificates to represent the interest arising under the trust in
the properties affected by the trust, which of course in view
of the provisions of the agreement and the subject to which
it related caused the interest in the certificates to be coincident with and the exact representative of the interest in
the combination, that is, in the Standard Oil Company of
Ohio. Soon afterwards it was allcged the trustees organized the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and the
Standard Oil Company of New York, the former having a
capital stock of $3,000,000 and the latter a capital stock
of $5,000,000, subsequently increased to $10,000,000 and
$15,000,000 respectively. The bill alleged "that pursuant
to said trust agreement the said trustees caused to be transferred to themselves the stocks of all corporations and
limited partnerships named in said trust agreement, and
caused various of the individuals and copartnerships, who
owned apparently independent refineries and other properties employed in the business of refining and transporting
and selling oil in and among said various States and TerriDevoe Manufacturing Company.
Eclipse Lubricating Oil Company (Limited).
Empire Refining Company (Limited).
Franklin Pipe Company (Limited).
Galena Oil Works (Limited).
Galena Farm Oil Company (Limited).
Germania Mining Company.
Vacuum Oil Company.
H. C. Van Tine & Company (Limited).
Waters-Pierce Oil Company.
Also stockholders and members (not being all thereof) of other
corporations and limited partnerships who may hereafter join in this
agreement at the request of the trustees herein provided for."

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tories of the United States as aforesaid, to transfer their
property situated in said several States to the respective
Standard Oil Companies of said States of New York,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Ohio, and other corporations organized or acquired by said trustees from time to
time. . . ." For the stocks and property so acquired
the trustees issued trust certificates. It was alleged that in
1888 the trustees "unlawfully controlled the stock and ownership of various corporations and limited partnerships engaged in such purchase and transportation, refining, selling,
and shipping of oil," as per a list which is excerpted in the
margin.'
'List of Corporations the Stocks of Which Were Wholly or Partially
Held by the Trustees of Standard Oil Trust,
Capital
Stock.
New York State:
Acme Oil Company, manufacturers
of petroleum products.
Atlas Refining Company, manufacturers of petroleum products.
American
Wick Manufacturing
Company, manufacturers of lamp
wicks.
Bush & Denslow Manufacturing
Company, manufacturers of petroleum products.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Company, manufacturers of petroleum.
Central Refining Company (Limited), manufacturers of petroleum
products.
Devoe Manufacturing Company,
packers, manufacturers of petroleum.
Empire Refining Company (Limited), manufacturers of petroleum
products.

S. 0. trust
ownership.

$300,000

Entire.

200,000

Do.

25,000

Do.

300,000

50 per cent.

500,000

2,661-5,000

200,000

1-67.2 per ct.

300,000

Entire.

100,000

80 per cent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The bill charged that during the second period quo warranto proceedings were commenced against the Standard
Oil Company of Ohio, which resulted in the entry by the
Supreme Court of Ohio, on March 2, 1892, of a decree
Capital

S. 0. trust

Stock.

ownership.

New York State (cont.):
Oswego Manufacturing Company,
manufacturers of wood cases.
Pratt Manufacturing Company,
manufacturers of petroleum products.
Standard Oil Company of New
York, manufacturers of petroleum products.
Sone & Fleming Manufacturing
Company (Limited), manufacturers of petroleum products.
Thompson & Bedford Company
(Limited), manufacturers of petroleum products.
Vacuum Oil Company, manufacturers of petroleum products.
New Jersey:
Eagle Oil Company, manufacturers
of petroleum products.
McKirgan Oil Company, jobbers of
petroleum products.
Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey, manufacturers of petroleum products.
Pennsylvania:
Acme Oil Company, manufacturers
of petroleum products.
Atlantic Refining Company, manufacturers of petroleum products.
Galena Oil Works (Limited), manufacturers of petroleum products.
Imperial Refining Company (Limited), manufacturers of petroleum
products.

100,000

Entire.

500,000

Do.

5,000,000

Do.

250,000

Do.

250,000

80 per cent.

25,000

75 per cent.

350,000

Entire.

75,000

Do.

3,000,000

Do.

300,000

Do.

400,000

Do.

150,000

8614 per cent.

300,000

Entire.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED5 STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

adjudging the trust agreement to be void, not only because the Standard Oil Company of Ohio was a party to
the same, but also because the agreement in and of itself
Capital
Stock.
Pennsylvania (cont.):
Producers' Consolidated Land and
Petroleum Company, producers
of crude oil.
National Transit Company, transporters of crude oil.
Standard Oil Company, manufacturers of petroleum products.
Signal Oil Works (Limited), manufacturers of petroleum products.
Ohio:
Consolidated Tank-Line Company,
jobbers of petroleum products.
Inland Oil Company, jobbers of petroleum products.
Standard Oil Company, manufacturers of petroleum products.
Solar Refining Company, manufacturers of petroleum products.
Kentucky:
Standard Oil Company, jobbers of
petroleum products.
Maryland:
Baltimore United Oil Company,
manufacturers of petroleum products.
West Virginia:
Camden Consolidated Oil Coinpany, manufacturers of petroleum products.
Minnesota:
Standard Oil Company, jobbers of
petroleum products.
Missouri:
Waters-Pierce Oil Company, jobbers of petroleum products.

S. 0. trust
ownership.

1,000,000

Az per cent.

25,455,200

94 per cent.

400,000

Entire.

100,000

38% per cent.

1,000,000

57 per cent.

50,000

50 per cent.

3,500,000

Entire.

500,000

Do.

600,000

Do.

600,000

5,059-6,000

200,000

51 per cent.

100,000

Entire.

400,000

50 per cent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

was in restraint of trade and amounted to the creation of an
unlawful monopoly. It was alleged that shortly after this
decision, seemingly for the purpose of complying therewith,
voluntary proceedings were had apparently to dissolve
the trust, but that these proceedings were a subterfuge
and a sham because they simply amounted to a transfer
of the stock held by the trust in 64 of the companies
which it controlled to some of the remaining 20 companies,
it having controlled before the decree 84 in all, thereby,
while seemingly in part giving up its dominion, yet in reality preserving the same by means of the control of the
companies as to which it had retained complete authority.
It was charged that especially was this the case, as the
stock in the companies selected for transfer was virtually
owned by the nine trustees or the members of their immediate families or associates. The bill further alleged that in
1897 the Attorney-General of Ohio instituted contempt
proceedings in the quo warranto case based upon the claim
that the trust had not been dissolved as required by the
decree in that case. About the same time also proceedings
in quo warranto were commenced to forfeit the charter of
a pipe line known as the Buckeye Pipe Line Company, an
Capital
Stock.
Massachusetts:
Beacon Oil Company, jobbers of
petroleum products.
Maverick Oil Company, jobbers of
petroleum products.
Maine:
Portland Kerosene Oil Company,
jobbers of petroleum products.
Iowa:
Standard Oil Company, jobbers of
petroleum products.
Continental Oil Company, jobbers
of petroleum products.

S. 0. trust
ownership.

100,000

Entire.

100,000

Do.

200,000

Do.

600,000

60 per cent.

300,000

62Y/2 per cent.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

41

Opinion of the Court.

Ohio corporation, whose stock, it was alleged, was owned
by the members of the combination, on the ground of its
connection with the trust which had been held to be illegal.
The result of these proceedings, the bill charged, caused
a resort to the alleged wrongful acts asserted to have been
committed during the third period, as follows:
"That during the third period of said conspiracy and in
pursuance thereof the said individual defendants operated
through the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, as a
holding corporation, which corporation obtained and
acquired the majority of the stocks of the various corporations engaged in purchasing, transporting, refining, shipping, and selling oil into and among the various States and
Territories of the United States and the District of Columbia and with foreign nations, and thereby managed and
controlled the same, in violation of the laws of the United
States, as hereinafter more particularly alleged."
It was alleged that in or about the month of January,
1899, the individual defendants caused the charter of the
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey to be amended;
"so that the business and objects of said company were
stated as follows, to wit: 'To do all kinds of mining, manufacturing, and trading business; transporting goods and
merchandise by land or water in any manner; to buy, sell,
lease, and improve land; build houses, structures, vessels,
cars, wharves, docks, and piers; to lay and operate pipe
lines; to erect lines for conducting electricity; to enter into
and carry out contracts of every kind pertaining to its
business; to acquire, use, sell, and grant licenses under patent rights; to purchase or otherwise acquire, hold, sell,
assign, and transfer shares of capital stock and bonds or
other evidences of indebtedness of corporations, and to
exercise all the privileges of ownership, including voting
upon the stock so held; to carry on its business and have
offices and agencies therefor in all parts of the world, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

to hold, purchase, mortgage, and convey real estate and
personal property outside the State of New Jersey.'
The capital stock of the company-which since
March 19, 1892, had been $10,000,000-was increased to
$110,000,000; and the individual defendants, as theretofore, continued to be a majority of the board of directors.
Without going into detail it suffices to say that it was
alleged in the bill that shortly after these proceedings the
trust came to an end, the stock of the various corporations
which had been controlled by it being transferred by its
holders to the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey,
which corporation issued therefor certificates of its common stock to the amount of $97,250,000. The bill contained allegations referring to the development of new
oil fields, for example, in California, southeastern Kansas,
northern Indian Territory, and northern Oklahoma, and
made reference to the building or otherwise acquiring by
the combination of refineries and pipe lines in the new
fields for the purpose of restraining and monopolizing the
interstate trade in petroleum and its products.
Reiterating in substance the averments that both the
Standard Oil Trust from 1882 to 1899 and the Standard
Oil Company of New Jersey since 1899 had monopolized
and restrained interstate commerce in petroleum and its
products, the bill at great length additionally set forth
various means by which during the second and third
periods, in addition to the effect occasioned by the combination of alleged previously independent concerns, the monopoly and restraint complained of was continued. Without attempting to follow the elaborate averments on these
subjects spread over fifty-seven pages of the printed record, it suffices to say that such averments may properly be
grouped under the following heads: Rebates, preferences
and other discriminatory practises in favor of the combination by railroad companies; restraint and monopolization
by control of pipe lines, and unfair practises against com-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

43

Opinion of the Court.

peting pipe lines; contracts with competitors in restraint
of trade; unfair methods of competition, such as local
price cutting at the points where necessary to suppress
competition; espionage of the business of competitors, the
operation of bogus independent companies, and payment
of rebates on oil, with the like intent; the division of the
United States into districts and the limiting of the operations of the various subsidiary corporations as to such districts so that competition in the sale of petroleum products
between such corporations had been entirely eliminated
and destroyed; and finally reference was made to what was
alleged to be the "enormous and unreasonable profits"
earned by the Standard Oil Trust and the Standard Oil
Company as a result of the alleged monopoly; which presumably was averred as a means of reflexly inferring the
scope and power acquired by the alleged combination.
Coming to the prayer of the bill, it suffices to say that
in general terms the substantial relief asked was, first,
that the combination in restraint of interstate trade and
commerce and which had monopolized the same, as alleged
in the bill, be found to have existence and that the parties thereto be perpetually enjoined from doing any further
act to give effect to it; second, that the transfer of the
stocks of the various corporations to the Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey, as alleged in the bill, be held to
be in violation of the first and second sections of the Antitrust Act, and that the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey be enjoined and restrained from in any manner continuing to exert control over the subsidiary corporations
by means of ownership of said stock or otherwise; third,
that specific relief by injunction be awarded against further violation of the statute by any of the acts specifically
complained of in the bill. There was also a prayer for general relief.
Of the numerous defendants named in the bill, the
Waters-Pierce Oil Company was the only resident of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

district in which the suit was commenced and the only
defendant served with process therein. Contemporaneous
with the filing of the bill the court made an order, under
§ 5 of the Anti-trust Act, for the service of process upon
all the other defendants, wherever they could be found.
Thereafter the various defendants unsuccessfully moved
to vacate the order for service on non-resident defendants
or filed pleas to the jurisdiction. Joint exceptions were
likewise unsuccessfully filed, upon the ground of impertinence, to many of the averments of the bill of complaint,
particularly those which related to acts alleged to have
been done by the combination prior to the passage of the
Anti-trust Act and prior to the year 1899.
Certain of the defendants filed separate answers, and a
joint answer was filed on behalf of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and numerous of the other defendants.
The scope of the answers will be adequately indicated by
quoting a summary on the subject made in the brief for
the appellants.
"It is sufficient to say that, whilst admitting many of
the alleged acquisitions of property, the formation of the
so-called trust of 1882, its dissolution in 1892, and the
acquisition by the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey of
the stocks of the various corporations in 1899, they deny
all the allegations respecting combinations or conspiracies
to restrain or monopolize the oil trade; and particularly
that the so-called trust of 1882, or the acquisition of the
shares of the defendant companies by the Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey in 1899, was a combination of
independent or competing concerns or corporations. The
averments of the petition respecting the means adopted to
monopolize the oil trade are traversed either by a denial
of the acts alleged or of their purpose, intent or effect."
On June 24, 1907, the cause being at issue, a special
examiner was appointed to take the evidence, and his report was filed March 22, 1909. It was heard on April 5

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to 10, 1909, under the expediting act of February 11, 1903,
before a Circuit Court consisting of four judges.
The court decided in favor of the United States. In
the opinion delivered, all the multitude of acts of wrongdoing charged in the bill were put aside, in so far as they
were alleged to have been committed prior to the passage
of the Anti-trust Act, "except as evidence of their (the defendants') purpose, of their continuing conduct and of its
effect." (173 Fed. Rep. 177.)
By the decree which was entered it was adjudged that
the combining of the stocks of various companies in the
hands of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey in 1899
constituted a combination in restraint of trade and also
an attempt to monopolize and a monopolization under
§ 2 of the Anti-trust Act. The decree was against seven
individual defendants, the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey, thirty-six domestic companies and one foreign company which the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey
controls by stock ownership; these 38 corporate defendants being held to be parties to the combination found to
exist.I
The bill was dismissed as to all other corporate defendants, 33 in number, it being adjudged by § 3 of the decree
that they "have not been proved to be engaged in the
operation or carrying out of the combination." 2
1 Counsel for appellants says: "Of the 38 (37) corporate defendants
named in section 2 of the decree and as to which the judgment of the
court applies, four have not appealed, to wit: Corsicana Refining Co.,
Manhattan Oil Co., Security Oil Co., Waters-Pierce Oil Co., and one,
the Standard Oil Co. of Iowa, has been liquidated and no longer
exists."
2 Of the dismissed defendants 16 were natural gas companies and 10
were companies which were liquidated and ceased to exist before the
filing of the petition. The other dismissed defendants, 7 in number,
were: Florence Oil Refining Co., United Oil Co., Tidewater Oil Co.,
Tide Water Pipe Co. (L't'd), Platt & Washburn Refining Co., Franklin Pipe Co. and Pennsylvania Oil Co.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

The Standard Oil Company of New Jersey was enjoined from voting the stocks or exerting any control over
the said 37 subsidiary companies, and the subsidiary companies were enjoined from paying any dividends as to the
Standard Oil Company or permitting it to exercise any control over them by virtue of the stock ownership or power
acquired by means of the combination. The individuals
and corporations were also enjoined from entering into or
carrying into effect any like combination which would
evade the decree. Further, the individual defendants,
the Standard Oil Company, and the 37 subsidiary corporations were enjoined from engaging or continuing in interstate commerce in petroleum or its products during the
continuance of the illegal combination.
At the outset a question of jurisdiction requires consideration, and we shall, also, as a preliminary, dispose of
another question, to the end that our attention may be
completely concentrated upon the merits of the controversy when we come to consider them.
First. We are of opinion that in consequence of the presence within the district of the Waters-Pierce Oil Company,
the court, under the authority of § 5 of the Anti-trust
Act, rightly took jurisdiction over the cause and properly
ordered notice to be served upon the non-resident defendants.
Second. The overruling of the exceptions taken to so
much of the bill as counted upon facts occurring prior to the
passage of the Anti-trust Act,-whatever may be the view
as an original question of the duty to restrict the controversy to a much narrower area than that propounded by
the bill,-we think by no possibility in the present stage of
the case can the action of the court be treated as prejudicial error justifying reversal. We say this because the
court, as we shall do, gave no weight to the testimony adduced under the averments complained of except in so far
as it tended to throw light upon the acts done after the

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

passage of the Anti-trust Act and the results of which it
was charged were being participated in and enjoyed by the
alleged combination at the time of the filing of the bill.
We are thus brought face to face with the merits of the
controversy.
Both as to the law and as to the facts the opposing contentions pressed in the argument are numerous and in all
their aspects are so irreconcilable that it is difficult to
reduce them to some fundamental generalization, which
by being disposed of would decide them all. For instance,
as to the law. While both sides agree that the determination of the controversy rests upon the correct construction and application of the first and second sections
of the Anti-trust Act, yet the views as to the meaning of
the act are as wide apart as the poles, since there is no real
point of agreement on any view of the act. And this also
is the case as to the scope and effect of authorities relied
upon, even although in some instances one and the same
authority is asserted to be controlling.
So also is it as to the facts. Thus, on the one hand,
with relentless pertinacity and minuteness of analysis,
it is insisted that the facts establish that the assailed combination took its birth in a purpose to unlawfully acquire
wealth by oppressing the public and destroying the just
rights of others, and that its entire career exemplifies an
inexorable carrying out of such wrongful intents, since, it
is asserted, the pathway of the combination from the
beginning to the time of the filing of the bill is marked
with constant proofs of wrong inflicted upon the public and
is strewn with the wrecks resulting from crushing out,
without regard to law, the individual rights of others.
Indeed, so conclusive, it is urged, is the proof on these
subjects that it is asserted that the existence of the principal corporate defendant-the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey-with the vast accumulation of property
which it owns or controls, because of its infinite potency

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

for harm and the dangerous example which its continued
existence affords, is an open and enduring menace to all
freedom of trade and is a byword and reproach to modern
economic methods. On the other hand, in a powerful
analysis of the facts, it is insisted that they demonstrate
that the origin and development of the vast business which
the defendants control was but the result of lawful competitive methods, guided by economic genius of the highest
order, sustained by courage, by a keen insight into commercial situations, resulting in the acquisition of great
wealth, but at the same time serving to stimulate and increase production, to widely extend the distribution of
the products of petroleum at a cost largely below that
which would have otherwise prevailed, thus proving to be
at one and the same time a benefaction to the general public as well as of enormous advantage to individuals. It
is not denied that in the enormous volume of proof contained in the record in the period of almost a lifetime to
which that proof is addressed, there may be found acts of
wrongdoing, but the insistence is that they were rather
the exception than the rule, and in most cases were either
the result of too great individual zeal in the keen rivalries
of business or of the methods and habits of dealing which,
even if wrong, were commonly practised at the time. And
to discover and state the truth concerning these contentions both arguments call for the analysis and weighing,
as we have said at the outset, of a jungle of conflicting
testimony covering a period of forty years, a duty difficult
to rightly perform and, even if satisfactorily accomplished,
almost impossible to state with any reasonable regard to
brevity.
Duly appreciating the situation just stated, it is certain
that only one point of concord between the parties is discernable, which is, that the controversy in every aspect is
controlled by a correct conception of the meaning of the
first and second sections of the Anti-trust Act. We shall

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

therefore-departing from what otherwise would be the
natural order of analysis-make this one point of harmony the initial basis of our examination of the contentions, relying upon the conception that by doing so some
harmonious resonance may result adequate to dominate
and control the discord with which the case abounds.
That is to say, we shall first come to consider the meaning of the first and second sections of the Anti-trust Act
by the text, and after discerning what by that process
appears to be its true meaning we shall proceed to consider
the respective contentions of the parties concerning the
act, the strength or weakness of those contentions, as well
as the accuracy of the meaning of the act as deduced from
the text in the light of the prior decisions of this court concerning it. When we have done this we shall then approach the facts. Following this course we shall make
our investigation under four separate headings: First.
The text of the first and second sections of the act originally considered and its meaning in the light of the common law and the law of this country at the time of its
adoption. Second. The contentions of the parties concerning the act, and the scope and effect of the decisions
of this court upon which they rely. Third. The application of the statute to facts, and, Fourth. The remedy, if
any, to be afforded as the result of such application.
First. The text of the act and its meaning.
We quote the text of the first and second sections of
the act, as follows:
"SECTION 1. Every contract, combination in the form
of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade
or commerce, among the several States, or with foreign
nations, is hereby declared to be illegal. Every person
who shall make any such contract, or engage in any such
combination or conspiracy, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by
VOL. ccxxi-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.
"SEC. 2. Every person who shall monopolize, or attempt
to monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons, to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one
year, or by both said punishments, in the discretion of the
court."
The debates show that doubt as to whether there was a
common law of the United States which governed the subject in the absence of legislation was among the influences leading to the passage of the act. They conclusively
show, however, that the main cause which led to the legislation was the thought that it was required by the economic condition of the times, that is, the vast accumulation of wealth in the hands of corporations and individuals,
the enormous development of corporate organization, the
facility for combination which such organizations afforded,
the fact that the facility was being used, and that combinations known as trusts were being multiplied, and the widespread impression that their power had been and would be
exerted to oppress individuals and injure the public generally. Although debates may not be used as a means for
interpreting a statute (United States v. Trans-Missouri
Freight Association, 166 U. S. 318, and cases cited) that
rule in the nature of things is not violated by resorting to
debates as a means of ascertaining the environment at
the time of the enactment of a particular law, that is, the
history of the period when it was adopted.
There can be no doubt that the sole subject with which
the first section deals is restraint of trade as therein contemplated, and that the attempt to monopolize and
monopolization is the subject with which the second see-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

51

Opinion of the Court.

tion is concerned. It is certain that those terms, at least
in their rudimentary meaning, took their origin in the
common law, and were also familiar in the law of this
country prior to and at the time of the adoption of the
act in question.
We shall endeavor then, first to seek their meaning, not
by indulging in an elaborate and learned analysis of the
English law and of the law of this country, but by making
a very brief reference to the elementary and indisputable
conceptions of both the English and American law on the
subject prior to the passage of the Anti-trust Act.
a. It is certain that at a very remote period the words
"contract in restraint of trade" in England came to refer
to some voluntary restraint put by contract by an individual on his right to carry on his trade or calling. Originally
all such contracts were considered to be illegal, because
it was deemed they were injurious to the public as well as
to the individuals who made them. In the interest of the
freedom of individuals to contract this doctrine was modified so that it was only when a restraint by contract was
so general as to be cotbrminous with the kingdom that it
was treated as void. That is to say, if the restraint was
partial in its operation and was otherwise reasonable the
contract was held to be valid:
b. Monopolies were defined by Lord Coke as follows:
" 'A monopoly is an institution, or allowance by the
king by his grant, commission, or otherwise to any person
or persons, bodies politic or corporate, of or for the sole
buying, selling, making, working, or using of anything,
whereby any person or persons, bodies politic or corporate, are sought to be restrained of any freedom or liberty
that they had before, or hindered in their lawful trade.'
(3 Inst. 181, c. 85.)"
Hawkins thus defined them:
" 'A monopoly is an allowance by the king to a particular person or persons of the sole buying, selling, making,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

working, or using of anything whereby the subject in
general is restrained from the freedom of manufacturing or
trading which he had before.' (Hawk. P. C. bk. 1, c. 29.)"
The frequent granting of monopolies and the struggle
which led to a denial of the power to create them, that is
to say, to the establishment that they were incompatible
with the English constitution is known to all and need not
be reviewed. The evils which led to the public outcry
against monopolies and to the final denial of the power to
make them may be thus summarily stated: 1. The power
which the monopoly gave to the one who enjoyed it to fix
the price and thereby injure the public; 2. The power
which it engendered of enabling a limitation on production; and, 3. The danger of deterioration in quality of the
monopolized article which it was deemed was the inevitable
resultant of the monopolistic control over its production
and sale. As monopoly as thus conceived embraced only
a consequence arising from an exertion of sovereign
power, no express restrictions or prohibitions obtained
against the creation by an individual of a monopoly as
such. But as it was considered, at least so far as the necessaries of life were concerned, that individuals by the
abuse of their right to contract might be able to usurp the
power arbitrarily to enhance prices, one of the wrongs
arising from monopoly, it came to be that laws were passed
relating to offenses such as forestalling, regrating and
engrossing by which prohibitions were placed upon the
power of individuals to deal under such circumstances
and conditions as, according to the conception of the
times, created a presumption that the dealings were not
simply the honest exertion of one's right to contract for
his own benefit unaccompanied by a wrongful motive to
injure others, but were the consequence of a contract or
course of dealing of such a character as to give rise to the
presumption of an intent to injure others through the
means, for instance, of a monopolistic increase of prices.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This is illustrated by the definition of engrossing found in
the statute, 5 and 6 Edw. VI, ch. 14, as follows:
"Whatsoever person or persons . . . shall engross
or get into his or their hands by buying, contracting, or
promise-taking, other than by demise, grant, or lease of
land, or tithe, any corn growing in the fields, or any other
corn or grain, butter, cheese, fish, or other dead victual,
whatsoever, within the realm of England, to the intent to
sell the same again, shall be accepted, reputed, and taken
an unlawful engrosser or engrossers."
As by the statutes providing against engrossing the
quantity engrossed was not required to be the whole or a
proximate part of the whole of an article, it is clear that
there was a wide difference between monopoly and engrossing, etc. But as the principal wrong which it was
deemed would result from monopoly, that is, an enhancement of the price, was the same wrong to which it was
thought the prohibited engrossment would give rise, it
came to pass that monopoly and engrossing were regarded as virtually one and the same thing. In other
words, the prohibited act of engrossing because of its
inevitable accomplishment of one of the evils deemed to
be engendered by monopoly, came to be referred to as
being a monopoly or constituting an attempt to monopolize. Thus Pollexfen, in his argument in East India Company v. Sandys, Skin. 165, 169, said:
"By common law, he said that trade is free, and for
that cited 3 Inst. 81; F. B. 65; 1 Roll. 4; that the common
law is as much against 'monopoly' as 'engrossing;' and
that they differ only, that a 'monopoly' is by patent from
the king, the other is by the act of the subject between
party and party; but that the mischiefs are the same from
both, and there is the same law against both. Moore,
673; 11 Rep. 84. The sole trade of anything is 'engrossing' ex rei natura, for whosoever hath the sole trade of
buying and selling hath 'engrossed' that trade; and who-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

soever hath the sole trade to any country, hath the sole
trade of buying and selling the produce of that country,
at his own price, which is an 'engrossing.' "
And by operation of the mental process which led to
considering as a monopoly acts which although they did
not constitute a monopoly were thought to produce some
of its baneful effects, so also because of the impediment
or burden to the due course of trade which they produced,
such acts came to be referred to as in restraint of trade.
This is shown by my Lord Coke's definition of monopoly
as being "an institution or allowance . . . whereby
any person or persons, bodies politic or corporate, are
sought to be restrained of any freedom or liberty that
they had before or hindered in their lawful trade." It is
illustrated also by the definition which Hawkins gives of
monopoly wherein it is said that the effect of monopoly is
to restrain the citizen "from the freedom of manufacturing or trading which he had before." And see especially
the opinion of Parker, C. J., in Mitchel v. Reynolds (1711),
1 P. Williams, 181, where a classification is made of
monopoly which brings it generically within the description of restraint of trade.
Generalizing these considerations, the situation is this:
1. That by the common law monopolies were unlawful
because of their restriction upon individual freedom of
contract and their injury to the public. 2. That as to
necessaries of life the freedom of the individual to deal
was restricted where the nature and character of the dealing was such as to engender the presumption of intent to
bring about at least one of the injuries which it was
deemed would result from monopoly, that is an undue
enhancement of price. 3. That to protect the freedom of
contract of the individual not only in his own interest,
but principally in the interest of the common weal, a contract of an individual by which he put an unreasonable
restraint upon himself as to carrying on his trade or busi-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ness was void. And that at common law the evils consequent upon engrossing, etc., caused those things to be
treated as coming within monopoly and sometimes to be
called monopoly and the same considerations caused monopoly because of its operation and effect, to be brought
within and spoken of generally as impeding the due course
of or being in restraint of trade.
From the development of more accurate economic conceptions and the changes in conditions of society it came
to be recognized that the acts prohibited by the engrossing, forestalling, etc., statutes did not have the harmful
tendency which they were presumed to have when the
legislation concerning them was enacted, and therefore
did not justify the presumption which had previously been
deduced from them, but, on the contrary, such acts tended
to fructify and develop trade. See the statutes of 12th
George III, ch. 71, enacted in 1772, and statute of 7 and
8 Victoria, ch. 24, enacted in 1844, repealing the prohibitions against engrossing, forestalling, etc., upon the express ground that the prohibited acts had come to be
considered as favorable to the development of and not in
restraint of trade. It is remarkable that nowhere at
common law can there be found a prohibition against the
creation of monopoly by an individual. This would seem
to manifest, either consciously or intuitively, a profound
conception as to the inevitable operation of economic
forces and the equipoise or balance in favor of the protection of the rights of individuals which resulted. That is
to say, as it was deemed that monopoly in the concrete
could only arise from an act of Sovereign power, and, such
sovereign power being restrained, prohibitions as to individuals were directed, not against the creation of monopoly, but were only applied to such acts in relation to
particular subjects as to which it was deemed, if not
restrained, some of the consequences of monopoly might
result. After all, this was but an instinctive recognition

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

of the truisms that the course of trade could not be made
free by obstructing it, and that an individual's right to
trade could not be protected by destroying such right.
From the review just made it clearly results that outside
of the restrictions resulting from the want of power in an
individual to voluntarily and unreasonably restrain his
right to carry on his trade or business and outside of the
want of right to restrain the free course of trade by contracts or acts which implied a wrongful purpose, freedom
to contract and to abstain from contracting and to exercise every reasonable right incident thereto became the
rule in the English law. The scope and effect of this freedom to trade and contract is clearly shown by the decision
in Mogul Steamship Co. v. McGregor (1892), A. C. 25.
While it is true that the decision of the House of Lords in
the case in question was announced shortly after the passage of the Anti-trust Act, it serves reflexly to show the
exact state of the law in England at the time the Antitrust statute was enacted.
In this country also the acts from which it was deemed
there resulted a part if not all of the injurious consequences ascribed to monopoly, came to be referred to as
a monopoly itself. In other words, here as had been the
case in England, practical common sense caused attention to be concentrated not upon the theoretically correct
name to be given to the condition or acts which gave rise to
a harmful result, but to the result itself and to the remedying of the evils which it produced. The statement just
made is illustrated by an early statute of the Province of
Massachusetts, that is, chap. 31 of the laws of 17781779, by which monopoly and forestalling were expressly
treated as one and the same thing.
It is also true that while the principles concerning contracts in restraint of trade, that is, voluntary restraint put
by a person on his right to pursue his calling, hence only
operating subjectively, came generally to be recognized

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in accordance with the English rule, it came moreover to
pass that contracts or acts which it was considered had a
monopolistic tendency, especially those which were thought
to unduly diminish competition and hence to enhance
prices-in other words, to monopolize-came also in a
generic sense to be spoken of and treated as they had been
in England, as restricting the due course of trade, and
therefore as being in restraint of trade. The dread of
monopoly as an emanation of governmental power, while
it passed at an early date out of mind in this country, as
a result of the structure of our Government, did not serve
to assuage the fear as to the evil consequences which
might arise from the acts of individuals producing or
tending to produce the consequences of monopoly. It
resulted that treating such acts as we have said as amounting to monopoly, sometimes constitutional restrictions,
again legislative enactments or judicial decisions, served
to enforce and illustrate the purpose to prevent the occurence of the evils recognized in the mother country as consequent upon monopoly, by providing against contracts
or acts of individuals or combinations of individuals or
corporations deemed to be conducive to such results. To
refer to the constitutional or legislative provisions on the
subject or many judicial decisions which illustrate it
*would unnecessarily prolong this opinion. We append in
the margin a note to treatises, &c., wherein are contained
references to constitutional and statutory provisions and
to numerous decisions, etc., relating to the subject.'
It will be found that as modern conditions arose the
trend of legislation and judicial decision came more and
more to adapt the recognized restrictions to new manifestations of conduct or of dealing which it was thought
'Purdy's Beach on Private Corporations, vol. 2, pp. 1403, et seq.,
chapter on Trusts and Monopolies; Cooke on Trade and Labor Combinations, App. II, pp. 194-195; Am. & Eng. Ency. Law, 2d ed.,
article "Monopolies and Trusts," pp. 844, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

justified the inference of intent to do the wrongs which it
had been the purpose to prevent from the beginning.
The evolution is clearly pointed out in National Cotton Oil
Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 115, and Shawnee Compress Co. v.
Anderson, 209 U. S. 423; and, indeed, will be found to be
illustrated in various aspects by the decisions of this court
which have been concerned with the enforcement of the
act we are now considering.
Without going into detail and but very briefly surveying the whole field, it may be with accuracy said that
the dread of enhancement of prices and of other wrongs
which it was thought would flow from the undue limitation on competitive conditions caused by contracts or
other acts of individuals or corporations, led, as a matter
of public policy, to the prohibition or treating as illegal all
contracts or acts which were unreasonably restrictive of
competitive conditions, either from the nature or character of the contract or act or where the surrounding circumstances were such as to justify the conclusion that
they had not been entered into or performed with the
legitimate purpose of reasonably forwarding personal interest and developing trade, but on the contrary were of
such a character as to give rise to the inference or presumption that they had been entered into or done with
the intent to do wrong to the general public and to limit
the right of individuals, thus restraining the free flow of
commerce and tending to bring about the evils, such as
enhancement of prices, which were considered to be against
public policy. It is equally true to say that the survey
of the legislation in this country on this subject from
the beginning will show, depending as it did upon the
economic conceptions which obtained at the time when
the legislation was adopted or judicial decision was rendered, that contracts or acts were at one time deemed to
be of such a character as to justify the inference of wrongful intent which were at another period thought not to be

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of that character. But this again, as we have seen, simply
followed the line of development of the law of England.
Let us consider the language of the first and second
sections, guided by the principle that where words are
employed in a statute which had at the time a well-known
meaning at common law or in the law of this country
they are presumed to have been used in that sense unless the context compels to the contrary.1
As to the first section, the words to be interpreted are:
"Every contract, combination in the form of trust or
otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce . . . is hereby declared to be illegal." As
there is no room for dispute that the statute was intended
to formulate a rule for the regulation of interstate and
foreign commerce, the question is what was the rule
which it adopted?
In view of the common law and the law in this country
as to restraint of trade, which we have reviewed, and the
illuminating effect which that history must have under
the rule to which we have referred, we think it results:
a. That the context manifests that the statute was
drawn in the light of the existing practical conception of
the law of restraint of trade, because it groups as within
that class, not only contracts which were in restraint of
trade in the subjective sense, but all contracts or acts
which theoretically were attempts to monopolize, yet
which in practice had come to be considered as in restraint
of trade in a broad sense.
b. That in view of the many new forms of contracts
and combinations which were being evolved from existing
economic conditions, it was deemed essential by an allembracing enumeration to make sure that no form of
contract or combination by which an undue restraint of
ISwearingen v. United States, 161 U. S. 446; United States v. Wong
Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649; Keck v. United States, 172 U. S. 446; Kepner
v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, 126.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910,
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

interstate or foreign commerce was brought about could
save such restraint from condemnation. The statute under this view evidenced the intent not to restrain the right
to make and enforce contracts, whether resulting from
combination or otherwise, which did not unduly restrain
interstate or foreign commerce, but to protect that commerce from being festrained by methods, whether old or
new, which would constitute an interference that is an
undue restraint.
c. And as the contracts or acts embraced in the provision were not expressly defined, since the enumeration
addressed itself simply to classes of acts, those classes
being broad enough to embrace every conceivable contract or combination which could be made concerning
trade or commerce or the subjects of such commerce, and
thus caused any act done by any of the enumerated
methods anywhere in the whole field of human activity
to be illegal if in restraint of trade, it inevitably follows
that the provision necessarily called for the exercise of
judgment which required that some standard should be
resorted to for the purpose of determining whether the
prohibitions contained in the statute had or had not in
any given case been violated. Thus not specifying but
indubitably contemplating and requiring a standard, it
follows that it was intended that the standard of reason
which had been applied at the common law and in this
country in dealing with subjects of the character embraced by the statute, was intended to be the measure
used for the purpose of determining whether in a given
case a particular act had or had not brought about the
wrong against which the statute provided.
And a consideration of the text of the second section
serves to establish that it was intended to supplement the
first and to make sure that by no possible guise could
the public policy. embodied in the first section be frustrated or evaded. The prohibitions of the second embrace

STANDARD OIL CO v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Every person who shall monopolize; or attempt to
monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other person or persons, to monopolize any part of the trade or
commerce among the several states, or with foreign
nations, . . ." By reference to the terms of § 8 it is
certain that the word person clearly implies a corporation
as well as an individual.
The commerce referred to by the words "any part"
construed in the light of the manifest purpose of the statute has both a geographical and a distributive significance,
that is it includes any portion of the United States and
any one of the classes of things forming a part of interstate or foreign commerce.
Undoubtedly, the words "to monopolize" and "monopolize" as used in the section reach every act bringing
about the prohibited results. The ambiguity, if any, is
involved in determining what is intended by monopolize.
But this ambiguity is readily dispelled in the light of the
previous history of the law of restraint of trade to which
we have referred and the indication which it gives of the
practical evolution by which monopoly and the acts which
produce the same result as monopoly, that is, an undue
restraint of the course of trade, all came to be spoken of
as, and to be indeed synonymous with, restraint of trade.
In other words, having by the first section forbidden all
means of monopolizing trade, that is, unduly restraining
it by means of every contract, combination, etc., the second
section seeks, if possible, to make the prohibitions of the
act all the more complete and perfect by embracing all
attempts to reach the end prohibited by the first section,
that is, restraints of trade, by any attempt to monopolize,
or monopolization thereof, even although the acts by
which such results are attempted to be brought about or
are brought about be not embraced within the general
enumeration of the first section. And, of course, when the
second section is thus harmonized with and made as it

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

was intended to be the complement of the first, it becomes obvious that the criteria to be resorted to in any
given case for the purpose of ascertaining whether violations of the section have been committed, is the rule of
reason guided by the established law and by the plain
duty to enforce the prohibitions of the act and thus the
public policy which its restrictions were obviously enacted
to subserve. And it is worthy of observation, as we have
previously remarked concerning the common law, that
although the statute by the comprehensiveness of the
enumerations embodied in both the first and second sections makes it certain that its purpose was to prevent
undue restraints of every kind or nature, nevertheless by
the omission of any direct prohibition against monopoly
in the concrete it indicates a consciousness that the freedom of the individual right to contract when not unduly
or improperly exercised was the most efficient means for
the prevention of monopoly, since the operation of the
centrifugal and centripetal forces resulting from the right
to freely contract was the means by which monopoly
would be inevitably prevented if no extraneous or sovereign power imposed it and no right to make unlawful
contracts having a monopolistic tendency were permitted. In other words that freedom to contract was the
essence of freedom from undue restraint on the right to
contract.
Clear as it seems to us is the meaning of the provisions
of the statute in the light of the review which we have
made, nevertheless before definitively applying that meaning it behooves us to consider the contentions urged on
one side or the other concerning the meaning of the statute,
which, if maintained, would give to it, in some aspects
a much wider and in every view at least a somewhat different significance. And to do this brings us to the second
question which, at the outset, we have stated it was our
purpose to consider and dispose of.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Second. The contentions of the parties as to the meaning of
the statute and the decisions of this court relied upon concerning those contentions.
In substance, the propositions urged by the Government are reducible to this: That the language of the statute embraces every contract, combination, etc., in restraint of trade, and hence its text leaves no room for the
exercise of judgment, but simply imposes the plain duty
of applying its prohibitions to every case within its literal
language. The error involved lies in assuming the matter
to be decided. This is true because as the acts which may
come under the classes stated in the first section and the
restraint of trade to which that section applies are not
specifically enumerated or defined, it is obvious that
judgment must in every case be called into play in order
to determine whether a particular act is embraced within
the statutory classes, and whether if the act is within such
classes its nature or effect causes it to be a restraint of
trade within the intendment of the act. To hold to the
contrary would require the conclusion either that every
contract, act or combination of any kind or nature,
whether it operated a restraint on trade or not, was within
the statute, and thus the statute would be destructive of
all right to contract or agree or combine in any respect
whatever as to subjects embraced in interstate trade or
commerce, or if this conclusion were not reached, then the
contention would require it to be held that as the statute
did not define the things to which it related and excluded
resort to the only means by which the acts to which it
relates could be ascertained-the light of reason-the enforcement of the statute was impossible because of its
uncertainty. The merely generic enumeration which the
statute makes of the acts to which it refers and the absence of any definition of restraint of trade as used in the
statute leaves room for but one conclusion, which is, that
it was expressly designed not to unduly limit the appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

cation of the act by precise definition, but while clearly
fixing a standard, that is, by defining the ulterior boundaries which could not be transgressed with impunity, to
leave it to be determined by the light of reason, guided by
the principles of law and the duty to apply and enforce
the public policy embodied in the statute, in every given
case whether any particular act or contract was within
the contemplation of the statute.
But, it is said, persuasive as these views may be, they
may not be here applied, because the previous decisions
of this court have given to the statute a meaning which
expressly excludes the construction which must result
from the reasoning stated. The cases are United States v.
Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, and United States v.
Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505. Both the cases
involved the legality of combinations or associations of
railroads engaged in interstate commerce for the purpose
of controlling the conduct of the parties to the association
or combination in many particulars. The association or
combination was assailed in each case as being in violation of the statute. It was held that they were. It is undoubted that in the opinion in each case general language
was made use of, which, when separated from its context,
would justify the conclusion that it was decided that reason could not be resorted to for the purpose of determining whether the acts complained of were within the statute. It is, however, also true that the nature and character
of the contract or agreement in each case was fully referred
to and suggestions as to their unreasonableness pointed
out in order to indicate that they were within the prohibitions of the statute. As the cases cannot by any possi-"
ble conception be treated as authoritative without the
certitude that reason was resorted to for the purpose of
deciding them, it follows as a matter of course that it must
have been held by the light of reason, since the conclusion
could not have been otherwise reached, that the assailed

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

contracts or agreements were within the general enumeration of the statute, and that their operation and effect
brought about the restraint of trade which the statute
prohibited. This being inevitable, the deduction can in
reason only be this: That in the cases relied upon it having
been found that the acts complained of were within the
statute and operated to produce the injuries which the
statute forbade, that resort to reason was not permissible
in order to allow that to be done which the statute prohibited. This being true, the rulings in the cases relied
upon when rightly appreciated were therefore this and
nothing more: That as considering the contracts or agreements, their necessary effect and the character of the
parties by whom they were made, they were clearly restraints of trade within the purview of the statute, they
could not be taken out of that category by indulging in
general reasoning as to the expediency or non-expediency
of having made the contracts or the wisdom or want of
wisdom of the statute which prohibited their being made.
That is to say, the cases but decided that the nature and
character of the contracts, creating as they did a conclusive
presumption which brought them within the statute, such
result was not to be disregarded by the substitution of a
judicial appreciation of what the law ought to be for the
plain judicial duty of enforcing the law as it was made.
But aside from reasoning it is true to say that the cases
relied upon do not when rightly construed sustain the
doctrine contended for is established by all of the numerous decisions of this court which have applied and enforced the Anti-trust Act, since they all in the very nature
of things rest upon the premise that reason was the guide
by which the provisions of the act were in every case
interpreted. Indeed intermediate the decision of the two
cases, that is, after the decision in the Freight Association
Case and before the decision in the Joint Traffic Case, the
case of Hopkins v. United States, 171 U. S. 578, was deVOL. CCXXI-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

cided, the opinion being delivered by Mr. Justice Peckham, who wrote both the opinions in the Freight Association and the Joint Traffic cases. And, referring in the
Hopkins Case to the broad claim made as to the rule of
interpretation announced in the Freight Association Case,
it was said (p. 592): "To treat as condemned by the act
all agreements under which, as a result, the cost of conducting an interstate commercial business may be increased would enlarge the application of the act far beyond the fair meaning of the language used. There must
be some direct and immediate effect upon interstate commerce in order to come within the act." And in the Joint
Traffic Case this statement was expressly reiterated and
approved and illustrated by example; like limitation on
the general language used in Freight Association and Joint
Traffic Cases is also the clear result of Bement v. National
Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70, 92, and especially of Cincinnati
Packet Co. v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179.
If the criterion by which it is to be determined in all
cases whether every contract, combination, etc., is a restraint of trade within the intendment of the law, is the
direct or indirect effect of the acts involved, then of
course the rule of reason becomes the guide, and the construction which we have given the statute, instead of being
refuted by the cases relied upon, is by those cases demonstrated to be correct. This is true, because as the construction which we have deduced from the history of the
act and the analysis of its text is simply that in every case
where it is claimed that an act or acts are in violation of
the statute the rule of reason, in the light of the principles
of law and the public policy which the act embodies, must
be applied. From this it follows, since that rule and the
result of the test as to direct or indirect, in their ultimate
aspect, come to one and the same thing, that the difference between the two is therefore only that which obtains
between things which do not differ at all.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

If it be true that there is this identity of result between
the rule intended to be applied in the FreightAssociation
Case, that is, the rule of direct and indirect, and the rule of
reason which under the statute as we construe it should
be here applied, it may be asked how was it that in the
opinion in the FreightAssociation Case much consideration
was given to the subject of whether the agreement or
combination which was involved in that case could be
taken out of the prohibitions of the statute upon the
theory of its reasonableness. The question is pertinent
and must be fully and frankly met, for if it be now deemed
that the Freight Association Case was mistakenly decided
or too broadly stated, the doctrine which it announced
should be either expressly overruled or limited.
Fthe confusion which gives rise to the question results
from failing to distinguish between the want of power to
take a case which by its terms or the circumstances which
surrounded it, considering among such circumstances the
character of the parties, is plainly within the statute, out
of the operation of the statute by resort to reason in effect
to establish that the contract ought not to be treated as
within the statute, and the duty in every case where it
becomes necessary from the nature and character of the
parties to decide whether it was within the statute to pass
upon that question by the light of reason. This distinction, we think, serves to point out what in its ultimate
conception was the thought underlying the reference to
the rule of reason made in the Freight Association Case,
especially when such reference is interpreted by the context of the opinion and in the light of the subsequent
opinion in the Hopkins Case and in CincinnatiPacket Company v. Bay, 200 U. S. 179.
And in order not in the slightest degree to be wanting
in frankness, we say that in so far, however, as by separating the general language used in the opinions in the
Freight Association and Joint Traffic cases from the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

text and the subject and parties with which the cases were
concerned, it may be conceived that the language referred to conflicts with the construction which we give
the statute, they are necessarily now limited and qualified.
We see no possible escape from this conclusion if we are to
adhere to the many cases decided in this court in which
the Anti-trust Law has been applied and enforced and if
the duty to apply and enforce that law in the future is to
continue to exist. The first is true, because the construction which we now give the statute does not in the slightest degree conflict with a single previous case decided
concerning the Anti-trust Law aside from the contention as
to the Freight Association and Joint Traffic cases, and because every one of those cases applied the rule of reason
for the purpose of determining whether the subject before
the court was within the statute. The second is also true,
since, as we have already pointed out, unaided by the
light of reason it is impossible to understand how the
statute may in the future be enforced and the public
policy which it establishes be made efficacious.
So far as the objections of the defendants are concerned
they are all embraced under two headings:a. That the act, even if the averments of the bill be true,
cannot be constitutionally applied, because to do so would
extend the power of Congress to subjects dehors the reach
of its authority to regulate commerce, by enabling that
body to deal with mere questions of production of commodities within the States. But all the structure upon which
this argument proceeds is based upon the decision in United
States v. E. C. Knight Co., 156 U. S. 1. The view, however,
which the argument takes of that case and the arguments
based upon that view have been so repeatedly pressed upon
this court in connection with the interpretation and enforcement of the Anti-trust Act, and have been so necessarily and expressly decided to be unsound as to cause the
contentions to be plainly foreclosed and to require no ex-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

press notice. United States v. Northern Securities Co., 193
U. S. 197, 334; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274; Swift & Co.
v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Montague v. Lowry, 193
U. S. 38; Shawnee Compress Co. v. Anderson, 209 U. S. 423.
b. Many arguments are pressed in various forms of
statement which in substance amount to contending that
the statute cannot be applied under the facts of this case
without impairing rights of property and destroying the
freedom of contract or trade, which is essentially necessary
to the well-being of society and which it is insisted is protected by the constitutional guaranty of due process of law.
But the ultimate foundation of all these arguments is the
assumption that reason may not be resorted to in interpreting and applying the statute, and therefore that the statute
unreasonably restricts the right to contract and unreasonably operates upon the right to acquire and hold property.
As the premise is demonstrated to be unsound by the construction we have given the statute, of course the propositions which rest upon that premise need not be further
noticed.
So far as the arguments proceed upon the conception
that in view of the generality of the statute it is not susceptible of being enforced by the courts because it cannot
be carried out without a judicial exertion of legislative
power, they are clearly unsound. The statute certainly
generically enumerates the character of acts which it
prohibits and the wrong which it was intended to prevent.
The propositions therefore but insist that, consistently
with the fundamental principles of due process of law, it
.never can be left to the judiciary to decide whether in a
given case particular acts come within a generic statutory
provision. But to reduce the propositions, however, to
this their final meaning makes it clear that in substance
they deny the existence of essential legislative authority
and challenge the right of the judiciary to perform duties
which that department of the government has exerted from

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

the beginning. This is so clear as to require no elaboration.
Yet, let us demonstrate that which needs no demonstration, by a few obvious examples. Take for instance the
familiar cases where the judiciary is called upon to determine whether a particular act or acts are within a given
prohibition, depending upon wrongful intent. Take questions of fraud. Consider the power which must be exercised in every case where the courts are called upon to determine whether particular acts are invalid which are,
abstractly speaking, in and of themselves valid, but which
are asserted to be invalid because of their direct effect
upon interstate commerce.
We come then to the third proposition requiring consideration, viz:
Third. The facts and the applicationof the statute to them.
Beyond dispute the proofs establish substantially as
alleged in the bill the following facts:
1. The creation of the Standard Oil Company of Ohio;
2. The organization of the Standard Oil Trust of 1882,
and also a previous one of 1879, not referred to in the bill,
and the proceedings in the Supreme Court of Ohio, culminating in a decree based upon the finding that the company was unlawfully a party to that trust; the transfer
by the trustees of stocks in certain of the companies; the
contempt proceedings; and, finally, the increase of the capital of the Standard Oil Company of New Jeksey and the
acquisition by that company of the shares of the stock of
the other corporations in exchange for its certificates.
The vast amount of property and the possibilities of
far-reaching control which resulted from the facts last
stated are shown by the statement which we have previously annexed concerning the parties to the trust agreement of 1882, and the corporations whose stock was held
by the trustees under the trust and which came therefore
to be held by the New Jersey corporation. But these statements do not with accuracy convey an appreciation of the

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

situation as it existed at the time of the entry of the decree
below, since during the more than ten years which elapsed
between the acquiring by the New Jersey corporation of
the stock and other property which was formerly held by
the trustees under the trust agreement, the situation of
course had somewhat changed, a change which when analyzed in the light of the proof, we think, establishes that
the result of enlarging the capital stock of the New Jersey
company and giving it the vast power to which we have
referred produced its normal consequence, that is, it gave
to the corporation, despite enormous dividends and despite the dropping out of certain corporations enumerated
in the decree of the court below, an enlarged and more
perfect sway and control over the trade and commerce in
petroleum and its products. The ultimate situation referred to will be made manifest by an examiniation of §§ 2
and 4 of the decree below, which are excerpted in the margin.1
1SECTION 2. That the defendants John D. Rockefeller, William
Rockefeller, Henry H. Rogers, Henry M. Flagler, John D. Archbold,
Oliver H. Payne, and Charles M. Pratt, hereafter called the seven
individual defendants, united with the Standard Oil Company and
other defendants to form and effectuate this combination, and since
its formation have been and still are engaged in carrying it into effect
and continuing it; that the defendants Anglo-American Oil Company
(Limited), Atlantic Refining Company, Buckeye Pipe Line Company,
Borne-Scrymser Company, Chesebrough Manufacturing Company,
Consolidated, Cumberland Pipe Line Company, Colonial Oil Company, Continental Oil Company, Crescent Pipe Line Company,
Henry C. Folger, Jr., and Calvin N. Payne, a copartnership doing
business under the firm name and style of Corsicana Refining Company, Eureka Pipe Line Company, Galena Signal Oil Company,
Indiana Pipe Line Company, Manhattan Oil Company, National
Transit Company, New York Transit Company, Northern Pipe Line
Company, Ohio Oil Company, Prairie Oil and Gas Company, Security
Oil Company, Solar Refining Company, Southern Pipe Line Company, South Penn Oil Company, Southwest Pennsylvania Pipe Lines
Company, Standard Oil Company, of California, Standard Oil Company, of Indiana, Standard Oil Company, of Iowa, Standard Oil

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Giving to the facts just stated, the weight which it was
deemed they were entitled to, in the light afforded by the
Company, of Kansas, Standard Oil Company, of Kentucky, Standard
Oil Company, of Nebraska, Standard Oil Company, of New York,
Standard Oil Company, of Ohio, Swan and Finch Company, Union
Tank Line Company, Vacuum Oil Company, Washington Oil Company, Waters-Pierce Oil Company, have entered into and became
parties to this combination and are either actively operating or aiding
in the operation of it; that by means of this combination the defendants named in this section have combined and conspired to monopolize, have monopolized, and are continuing to monopolize a substantial
part of the commerce among the states, in the territories and with
foreign nations, in violation of section 2 of the anti-trust act.
SECTION 4. That in the formation and execution of the combination or conspiracy the Standard Company has issued its stock to the
amount of more than $90,000,000 in exchange for the stocks of other
corporations which it holds, and it now owns and controls all of the
capital stock of many corporations, a majority of the stock or controlling interests in some corporations and stock in other corporations
as follows:
Owned by
Total
Standard Oil
capital
Name of company.
Company.
stock.
£999,740
Anglo-American Oil Company, Limited £1,000,000
$5,000,000
$5,000,000
Atlantic Refining Company ...........
199,700
200,000
Borne-Scrymser Company ............
10,000,000
9,999,700
..........
Pipe
Line
Company
Buckeye
Chesebrough Manufacturing Company,
277,700
500,000
Consolidated ......................
249,300
250,000
Colonial Oil Company ................
300,000
300,000
Continental Oil Company .............
3,000,000
3,000,000
Crescent Pipe Line Company .........
4,999,400
5,000,000
Eureka Pipe Line Company ...........
7,079,500
10,000,000
Galena-Signal Oil Company ...........
999,700
1,000,000
Indiana Pipe Line Company ..........
450,000
450,000
Lawrence Natural Gas Company ......
149,900
150,000
Mahoning Gas Fuel Company .........
500,000
500,000
Mountain State Gas Company ........
25,451,650
25,455,200
National Transit Company ...........
5,000,000
5,000,000
New York Transit Company ..........

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proof of other cognate facts and circumstances, the court
below held that the acts and dealings established by the
Name of company.

Total
capital
stock.
4,000,000

Owned by
Standard Oil
Company.
4,000,000

Northern Pipe Line Company .........
Northwestern Ohio Natural Gas Com2,775,250
1,649,450
p any .............................
10,000,000
9,999,850
Ohio Oil Company ...................
1,000,000
1,000,000
People's Natural Gas Company .......
Pittsburg Natural Gas Company ......
310,000
310,000
500,000
499,400
Solar Refining Company ..............
10,000,000
10,000,000
Southern Pipe Line Company .........
South Penn Oil Company .............
2,500,000
2,500,000
Southwest Pennsylvania Pipe Lines...
3,500,000
3,500,000
Standard Oil Company (of California)..
17,000,000
16,999,500
1,000,000
999,000
Standard Oil Company (of Indiana)....
1,000,000
1,000,000
Standard Oil Company (of Iowa)...
Standard Oil Company (of Kansas)...
1,000,000
999,300
1,000,000
997,200
Standard Oil Company (of Kentucky)..
Standard Oil Company (of Nebraska) .
600,000
599,500
Standard Oil Company (of New York)..
15,000,000
15,000,000
3,500,000
3,499,400
Standard Oil Company (of Ohio) ......
Swan and Finch Company ............
100,000
100,000
3,500,000
3,499,400
Union Tank Line Company ...........
2,500,000
2,500,000
Vacuum Oil Company ................
Washington Oil Company ............
100,000
71,480
Waters-Pierce Oil Company ...........
400,000
274,700
That the defendant National Transit Company, which is owned
and controlled by the Standard Oil Company as aforesaid, owns and
controls the amounts of the capital stocks of the following-named cor•porations and limited partnerships stated opposite each, respectively,
as follows:
Total
Owned 1 y
capital National TransName of company.
stock.
it Company.
Connecting Gas Company ............
$825,000
$412,000
1,000,000
998,500
Cumberland Pipe Line Company ......
East Ohio Gas Company .............
6,000,000
5,999,500
Franklin Pipe Company, Limited ......
50,000
19,500
Prairie Oil and Gas Company .........
10,000,000
9,999,500

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

proof operated to destroy the "potentiality of competition"
which otherwise would have existed to such an extent as
to cause the transfers of stock which were made to the New
Jersey corporation and the control which resulted over the
many and various subsidiary corporations to be a combination or conspiracy in restraint of trade in violation of the
first section of the act, but also to be an attempt to monopolize and a monopolization bringing about a perennial
violation of the second section.
We see no cause to doubt the correctness of these conclusions, considering the subject from every aspect, that
is, both in view of the facts established by the record and
the necessary operation and effect of the law as we have
That the Standard Company has also acquired the control by the
ownership of its stock or otherwise of the Security Oil Company, a
corporation created under the laws of Texas, which owns a refinery at
Beaumont in that State, and the Manhattan Oil Company, a corporation, which owns a pipe line situated in the States of Indiana and Ohio;
that the Standard Company, and the corporations and partnerships
named in Section 2, are engaged in the various branches of the business of producing, purchasing and transporting petroleum in the
principal oil-producing districts of the United States, in New York,
Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Tennessee, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana,
Illinois, Kansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Texas, Colorado and California, in shipping and transporting the oil through pipe lines owned
or controlled by these companies from the various oil-producing districts into and through other states, in refining the petroleum and
manufacturing it into various products, in shipping the petroleum and.
the products thereof into the states and territories of the United
States, the District of Columbia and to foreign nations, in shipping the
petroleum and its products in tank cars owned or controlled by the
subsidiary companies into various states and territories of the United
States and into the District of Columbia, and in selling the petroleum
and its products in various places in the states and territories of the
United States, in the District of Columbia and in foreign countries;
that the Standard Company controls the subsidiary companies and
directs the management thereof so that none of the subsidiary companies competes with any other of those companies or with the Standard Company, but their trade is all managed as that of a single person.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

construed it upon the inferences deducible from the facts,
for the following reasons:
a. Because the unification of power and control over petroleum and its products which was the inevitable result
of the combining in the New Jersey corporation by the
increase of its stock and the transfer to it of the stocks of
so many other corporations, aggregating so vast a capital,
gives rise, in and of itself, in the absence of countervailing
circumstances, to say the least, to the primafacie presumption of intent and purpose to maintain the dominancy
over the oil industry, not as a result of normal methods
of industrial development, but by new means of combination which were resorted to in order that greater
power might be added than would otherwise have arisen
had normal methods been followed, the whole with the
purpose of excluding others from the trade and thus centralizing in the combination a perpetual control of the
movements of petroleum and its products in the channels
of interstate commerce.
b. Because the prima facie presumption of intent to
restrain trade, to monopolize and to bring about monopolization resulting from the act of expanding the stock of
the New Jersey corporation and vesting it with such vast
control of the oil industry, is made conclusive by considering, 1, the conduct of the persons or corporations who
were mainly instrumental in bringing about the extension
of power in the New Jersey corporation before the consummation of that result and prior to the formation of
the trust agreements of 1879 and 1882, 2, by considering
the proof as to what was done under those agreements and
the acts which immediately preceded the vesting of power
in the New Jersey corporation as well as by weighing the
modes in which the power vested in that corporation has
been exerted and the results which have arisen from it.
Recurring to the acts done by the individuals or corporations who were mainly instrumental in bringing about the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

expansion of the New Jersey corporation during the period prior to the formation of the trust agreements of 1879
and 1882, including those agreements, not for the purpose
of weighing the substantial merit of the numerous charges
of wrongdoing made during such period, but solely as an
aid for discovering intent and purpose, we think no disinterested mind can survey the period in question without
being irresistibly driven to the conclusion that the very
genius for commercial development and organization
which it would seem was manifested from the beginning
soon begot an intent and purpose to exclude others which
was frequently manifested by acts and dealings wholly
inconsistent with the theory that they were made with the
single conception of advancing the development of business power by usual methods, but which on the contrary
necessarily involved the intent to drive others from the
field and to exclude them from their right to trade and thus
accomplish the mastery which was the end in view. And,
considering the period from the date of the trust agreements of 1879 and 1882, up to the time of the expansion
of the New Jersey corporation, the gradual extension of
the power over the commerce in oil which ensued, the
decision of the Supreme Court of Ohio, the tardiness or
reluctance in conforming to the commands of that decision, the method first adopted and that which finally culminated in the plan of the New Jersey corporation, all
additionally serve to make manifest the continued existence of the intent which we have previously indicated and
which among other things impelled the expansion of the
New Jersey corporation. The exercise of the power which
rcsulted from that organization fortifies the foregoing
conclusions, since the development which came, the acquisition here and there which ensued of every efficient means
by which competition could have been asserted, the slow
but resistless methods which followed by which means of
transportation were absorbed and brought under control,

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the system of marketing which was adopted by which the
country was divided into districts and the trade in each
district in oil was turned over to a designated corporation
within the combination and all others were excluded, all
lead the mind up to a conviction of a purpose and intent
which we think is so certain as practically to cause the
subject not to be within the domain of reasonable contention.
The inference that no attempt to monopolize could have
been intended, and that no monopolization resulted from
the acts complained of, since it is established that a very
small percentage of the crude oil produced was controlled
by the combination, is unwarranted. As substantial power
ovet the crude product was the inevitable result of the absolute control which existed over the refined product, the
monopolization of the one carried with it the power to control the other, and if the inferences which this situation
suggests were developed, which we deem it unnecessary
to do, they might well serve to add additional cogency to
the presumption of intent to monopolize which we have
found arises from the unquestioned proof on other subjects.
We are thus brought to the last subject which we are
called upon to consider, viz:
Fourth. The remedy to be administered.
It may be conceded that ordinarily where it was found
that acts had been done in violation of the statute, adequate measure of relief would result from restraining the
doing of such acts in the future. Swift v. United States,
196 U. S. 375. But in a case like this, where the condition
which has been brought about in violation of the statute,
in and of itself, is not only a continued attempt to monopolize, but also a monopolization, the duty to enforce the
statute requires the application of broader and more controlling remedies. As penalties which are not authorized
by law may not be inflicted by judicial authority, it follows
that to meet the situation with which we are confronted

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

the application of remedies two-fold in character becomes
essential: 1st. To forbid the doing in the future of acts like
those which we have found to have been done in the past
which would be violative of the statute. 2d. The exertion
of such measure of relief as will effectually dissolve the
combination found to exist in violation of the statute,
and thus neutralize the extension and continually operating force which the possession of the power unlawfully obtained has brought and will continue to bring
about.
In applying remedies for this purpose, however, the
fact must not be overlooked that injury to the public by
the prevention of an undue restraint on, or the monopolization of trade or commerce is the foundation upon which
the prohibitions of the statute rest, and moreover that one
of the fundamental purposes of the statute is to protect,
not to destroy, rights of property.
Let us then, as a means of accurately determining what
relief we are to afford, first come to consider what relief
was afforded by the court below, in order to fix how far
it is necessary to take from or add to that relief, to the
end that the prohibitions of the statute may have complete and operative force.
The court below by virtue of §§ 1, 2, and 4 of its decree,
which we have in part previously excerpted in the margin,
adjudged that the New Jersey corporation in so far as it
held the stock of the various corporations, recited in §§ 2
and 4 of the decree, or controlled the same was a combination in violation of the first section of the act, and an
attempt to monopolize or a monopolization contrary to
the second section of the act. It commanded the dissolution of the combination, and therefore in effect, directed
the transfer by the New Jersey corporation back to the
stockholders of the various subsidiary corporations entitled to the same of the stock which had been turned over
to the New Jersey company in exchange for its stock. To

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

make this command effective § 5 of the decree forbade
the New Jersey corporation from in any form or manner
exercising any ownership or exerting any power directly
or indirectly in virtue of its apparent title to the stocks of
the subsidiary corporations, and prohibited those subsidiary corporations from paying any dividends to the New
Jersey corporation or doing any act which would recognize further power in that company, except to the extent
that it was necessary to enable that company to transfer
the stock. So far as the owners of the stock of the subsidiary corporations and the corporations themselves were
concerned after the stock had been transferred, § 6 of the
decree enjoined them from in any way conspiring or combining to violate the act or to monopolize or attempt to
monopolize in virtue of their ownership of the stock transferred to them, and prohibited all agreements between the
subsidiary corporations or other stockholders in the future,
tending to produce or bring about further violations of the
act.
By § 7, pending the accomplishment of the dissolution
of the combination by the transfer of stock and until it
was consummated, the defendants named in § 2, constituting all the corporations to which we have referred, were
enjoined from engaging in or carrying on interstate commerce. And by § 9, among other things a delay of thirty
days was granted for the carrying into effect of the directions of the decree.
So far as the decree held that the ownership of the stock
of the New Jersey corporation constituted a combination
in violation of the first section and an attempt to create a
monopoly or to monopolize under the second section and
commanded the dissolution of the combination, the decree
was clearly appropriate. And this also is true of § 5 of the
decree which restrained both the New Jersey corporation
and the subsidiary corporations from doing anything
which would recognize or give effect to further ownership

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

in the New Jersey corporation of the stocks which were
ordered to be retransferred.
But the contention is that, in so far as the relief by way of
injunction which was awarded by § 6 against the stockholders of the subsidiary corporations or the subsidiary
corporations themselves after the transfer of stock by the
New Jersey corporation was completed in conformity to
the decree, the relief awarded was too broad: a. Because it was not sufficiently specific and tended to cause
those who were within the embrace of the order to cease
to be under the protection of the law of the land and required them to thereafter conduct their business under
the jeopardy of punishments for contempt for violating a
general injunction. New Haven R. R. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 200 U. S. 404. Besides it is said that
the restraint imposed by § 6-even putting out of view the
consideration just stated-was moreover calculated to do
injury to the public and it may be in and of itself to produce the very restraint on the due course of trade which
it was intended to prevent. We say this since it does not
necessarily follow because an illegal restraint of trade or an
attempt to monopolize or a monopolization resulted from
the combination and the transfer of the stocks of the subsidiary corporations to the New Jersey corporation that
a like restraint or attempt to monopolize or monopolization would necessarily arise from agreements between one
or more of the subsidiary corporations after the transfer
of the stock by the New Jersey corporation. For illustration, take the pipe lines. By the effect of the transfer of
the stock the pipe lines would come under the control of
various corporations instead of being subjected to a uniform control. If various corporations owning the lines
determined in the public interests to so combine as to
make a continuous line, such agreement or combination
would not be repugnant to the act, and yet it might be
restrained by the decree. As another example, take the

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Union Tank Line Company, one of the subsidiary corporations, the owner practically of all the tank cars in use by
the combination. If no possibility existed of agreements
for the distribution of these cars among the subsidiary
corporations, the most serious detriment to the public
interest might result. Conceding the merit, abstractly
considered, of these contentions they are irrelevant. We
so think, since we construe the sixth paragraph of the
decree, not as depriving the stockholders or the corporations, after the dissolution of the combination, of the
power to make normal and lawful contracts or agreements,
but as restraining them from, by any device whatever,
recreating directly or indirectly the illegal combination
which the decree dissolved. In other words we construe
the sixth paragraph of the decree, not as depriving the
stockholders or corporations of the right to live under the
law of the land, but as compelling obedience to that law.
As therefore the sixth paragraph as thus construed is not
amenable to the criticism directed against it and cannot
produce the harmful results which the arguments suggest
it was obviously right. We think that in view of the magnitude of the interests involved and their complexity that
the delay of thirty days allowed for executing the decree
was too short and should be extended so as to embrace a
period of at least six months. So also, in view of the possible serious injury to result to the public from an absolute
cessation of interstate commerce in petroleum and its products by such vast agencies as are embraced in the combination, a result which might arise from that portion of
the decree which enjoined carrying on of interstate commerce not only by the New Jersey corporation but by all
the subsidiary companies until the dissolution of the combination by the transfer of the stocks in accordance with
the decree, the injunction provided for in § 7 thereof
should not have been awarded.
Our conclusion is that the decree ,below was right and
VOL. ccxxi-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN, J.,

concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

should be affirmed, except as to the minor matters concerning which we have indicated the decree should be modified.
Our order will therefore be one of affirmance with directions, however, to modify the decree in accordance with
this opinion. The court below to retain jurisdiction to the
extent necessary to compel compliance in every respect
with its decree.
And it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN concurring

in part, and dissent-

ing in part.
A sense of duty constrains me to express the objections
which I have to certain declarations in the opinion just
delivered on behalf of the court.
I concur in holding that the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey and its subsidiary companies constitute a
combination in restraint of interstate commerce, and that
they have attempted to monopolize and have monopolized
parts of such commerce-all in violation of what is known
as the Anti-trust Act of 1890. 26 Stat. 209, c. 647. The
evidence in this case overwhelmingly sustained that view
and led the Circuit Court, by its final decree, to order the
dissolution of the New Jersey corporation and the discontinuance of the illegal combination between that corporation and its subsidiary companies.
In my judgment, the decree below should have been
affirmed without qualification. But the court, while affirming the decree, directs some modifications in respect
of what it characterizes as "minor matters." It is to be
apprehended that those modifications may prove to be
mischievous. In saying this, I have particularly in view
the statement in the opinion that "it does not necessarily
follow that because an illegal restraint of trade or an attempt to monopolize or a monopolization resulted from
the combination and the transfer of the stocks of the
subsidiary corporations to the New Jersey corporation,

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

that a like restraint of trade or attempt to monopolize or
monopolization would necessarily arise from agreements
between one or more of the subsidiary corporations after
the transfer of the stock by the New Jersey corporation."
Taking this language, in connection with other parts of
the opinion, the subsidiary companies are thus, in effect,
informed-unwisely, I think-that although the New
Jersey corporation, being an illegal combination, must go
out of existence, they may join in an agreement to restrain
commerce among the States if such restraint be not "undue."
In order that my objections to certain parts of the
court's opinion may distinctly appear, I must state the
circumstances under which Congress passed the Antitrust Act, and trace the course of judicial decisions as to
its meaning and scope. This is the more necessary because the court by its decision, when interpreted by the
language of its opinion, has not only upset the long.settled interpretation of the act, but has usurped the
constitutional functions of the legislative branch of the
Government. With all due respect for the opinions of
others, I feel bound to say that what the court has said
may well cause some alarm for the integrity of our institutions. Let us see how the matter stands.
All who recall the condition of the country in 1890 will
remember that there was everywhere, among the people
generally, a deep feeling of unrest. The Nation had been
rid of human slavery-fortunately, as all now feel-but
the conviction was universal that the country was in real
danger from another kind of slavery sought to be fastened
on the American people, namely, the slavery that would
result from aggregations of capital in the hands of a few
individuals and corporations controlling, for their own
profit and advantage exclusively, the entire business of
the country, including the production and sale of the necessaries of life. Such a danger was thought to be then

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

imminent, and all felt that it must be met firmly and by
such statutory regulations as would adequately protect
the people against oppression and wrong. Congress therefore took up the matter and gave the whole subject the
fullest consideration. All agreed that the National Government could not, by legislation, regulate the domestic
rTade carried on wholly within the several States; for,
vower to regulate such trade remained with, because
!. ver surrendered by, the States. But, under authority
expressly granted to it by the Constitution, Congress could
regulate commerce among the several States and with
foreign states. Its authority to regulate such commerce
was and is paramount, due force being given to other
provisions of the fundamental law devised by the fathers
for the safety of the Government and for the protection
and security of the essential rights inhering in life, liberty
and property.
Guided by these considerations, and to the end that the
people, so far as interstate commerce was concerned, might
not be dominated by vast combinations and monopolies,
having power to advance their own selfish ends, regardless of the general interests and welfare, Congress passed
the Anti-trust Act of 1890 in these words (the italics here
and elsewhere in this opinion are mine):
"SEc. 1. Every contract, combination in the form of
trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or
commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal. Every person who
shall make any such contract or engage in any such combination or conspiracy, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished
by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court. § 2. Every
person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize,
or combine or conspire with any other person or persons,

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce among
the several States, or with foreign nations, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, shall
be punished by fine not exceeding five thousand dollars,
or by imprisonment not exceeding one year, or by both
said punishments, in the discretion of the court. § 3. Every
contract, combination in form of trust or otherwise, or
conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce in any
Territory of the United States or in the District of Columbia, or in restraint of trade or commerce between any
such Territory and another, or between any such Territory or Territories and any State or States or the District
of Columbia, or with foreign nations, or between the District of Columbia and any State or States or foreign nations, is hereby declared illegal. Every person who shall
make any such contract or engage in any such combination
or conspiracy, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and, on conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine not
exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment not
exceeding one year, or by both said punishments, in the
discretion of the court." 26 Stat. 209, c. 647.
The important inquiry in the present case is as to the
meaning and scope of that act in its application to interstate commerce.
In 1896 this court had occasion to determine the meaning and scope of the act in an important case known as
the Trans-Missouri Freight Case. 166 U. S. 290. The
question there was as to the validity under the Anti-trust
Act of a certain agreement between numerous railroad
companies, whereby they formed an association for the
purpose of establishing and maintaining rates, rules and
regulations in respect of freight traffic over specified
routes. Two questions were involved: first, whether the
act applied to railroad carriers; second, whether the agreement the annulment of which as illegal was the basis of
the suit which the United States brought. The court

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN, J.,

concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

held that railroad carriers were embraced by the act. In
determining that question, the court, among other things,
said:
"The language of the act includes every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy,
in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States
or with foreign nations. So far as the very terms of the
statute go, they apply to any contract of the nature described. A contract therefore that is in restraint of trade
or commerce is, by the strict language of the act prohibited, even though such contract is entered into between competing common carriers by railroad, and only
for the purposes of thereby affecting traffic rates for the
transportation of persons and property. If such an agreement restrains trade or commerce, it is prohibited by the
statute, unless it can be said that an agreement, no matter what its terms, relating only to transportation cannot
restrain trade or commerce. We see no escape from the
conclusion that if an agreement of such a nature does restrain it, the agreement is condemned by this act.
Nor is it for the substantial interests of the country that
any one commodity should be within the sole power and
subject to the sole will of one powerful combination of
capital. Congress has, so far as its jurisdiction extends,
prohibited all contracts or combinations in the form of
trusts entered into for the purpose of restraining trade
and commerce.

.

.

While the statute prohibits all

combinations in the form of trusts or otherwise, the limitation is not confined to that form alone. All combinations
which are in restraintof trade or commerce are prohibited,
whether in the form of trusts or in any other form whatever." United States v. Freight Assn., 166 U. S.290, 312,
324, 326.
The court then proceeded to consider the second of the
above questions, saying: "The next question to be discussed is as to what is the true construction of the statute,

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

assuming that it applies to common carriers by railroad.
What is the meaning .of the language as used in the statute, that 'every contract, combination in the form of
trust or otherwise, or conspiracy in restraint of trade or
commerce among the several States or with foreign nations, is hereby declared to be illegal?' Is it confined to a
contract or combination which is only in unreasonable
restraint of trade or commerce, or does it include what
the language of the act plainly and in terms covers, all
contracts of that nature? It is now with much amplification of argument urged that the statute, in declaring illegal every combination in the form of trust or otherwise,
or conspiracy in restraint of trade or commerce, does not
mean what the language used therein plainly imports, but
that it only means to declare illegal any such contract
which is in unreasonable restraint of trade, while leaving
all others unaffected by the provisions of the act; that the
common law meaning of the term 'contract in restraint
of trade' includes only such contracts as are in unreasonable restraint of trade, and when that term is used in the
Federal statute it is not intended to include all contracts
in restraint of trade, but only those which are in unreasonable restraint thereof. . . . By the simple use of
the term 'contract in restraint of trade,' all contracts of
that nature, whether valid or otherwise, would be included, and not alone that kind of contract which was invalid and unenforceable as being in unreasonable restraint
of trade. When, therefore, the body of an act pronounces
as illegal every contract or combination in restraint of
trade or commerce among the several States, etc., the
plain and ordinary meaning of such language is not limited
to that kind of contract alone which is in unreasonable
restraint of trade, but all contracts are included in such
language, and no exception or limitation can be added
without placing in the act that which has been omitted
by Congress. . . . If only that kind of contract

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

which is in unreasonable restraint of trade be within the
meaning of the statute, and declared therein to be illegal, it is at once apparent that the subject of what is a
. .
reasonable rate is attended with great uncertainty.
To say, therefore, that the act excludes agreements which
are not in unreasonable restraint of trade, and which tend
simply to keep up reasonable rates for transportation, is
substantially to leave the question of unreasonableness
to the companies themselves.

.

.

But assuming

that agreements of this nature are not void at common
law and that the various cases cited by the learned courts
below show it, the answer to the statement of their validity
now is to be found in the terms of the statute under consideration.

.

.

.

The arguments which have been

addressed to us against the inclusion of all contracts in
restraint of trade, as provided for by the language of the
act, have been based upon the alleged presumption that
Congress, notwithstanding the language of the act, could
not have intended to embrace all contracts, but only such
contracts as were in unreasonable restraint of trade. Under these circumstances we are, therefore, asked to hold
that the act of Congress excepts contracts which are not
in unreasonable restraint of trade, and which only keep
rates up to a reasonable price, notwithstanding the language of the act makes no such exception. In other words,
we are asked to read into the act by way of judicial legislation an exception that is not placed there by the lawmaking
branch of the Government, and this is to be done upon the
theory that the impolicy of such legislation is so clear
that it cannot be supposed Congress intended the natural
import of the language it used. This we cannot and ought
not to do.

.

"If the act ought to read, as contended for by defendants, Congress is the body to amend it and not this court, by
a process of judicial legislation wholly unjustifiable. Large
numbers do not agree that the view taken by defendants

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

is sound or true in substance, and Congress may and very
probably did share in that belief in passing the act. The
public policy of the Government is to be found in its
statutes, and when they have not directly spoken, then in
the decisions of the courts and the constant practice of
the government officials; but when the lawmaking power
speaks upon a particular subject, over which it has constitutional power to legislate, public policy in such a case
is what the statute enacts. If the law prohibit any contract
or combination in restraint of trade or commerce, a contract or combination made in violation of such law is void,
whatever may have been theretofore decided by the courts
to have been the public policy of the country on that subject. The conclusion which we have drawn from the examination above made into the question before us is that
the Anti-trust Act applies to railroads, and that it renders illegal all agreements which are in restraint of trade
or commerce as we have above defined that expression,
and the question then arises whether the agreement before us is of that nature."
I have made these extended extracts from the opinion
of the court in the Trans-MissouriFreight Case in order to
show beyond question, that the point was there urged
by counsel that the Anti-trust Act condemned only contracts, combinations, trusts and conspiracies that were in
unreasonable restraint of interstate commerce, and that
the court in clear and decisive language met that point.
It adjudged that Congress had in unequivocal words declared that "every contract, combination, in the form of
trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of commerce among the several States" shall be illegal, and that
no distinction, so far as interstate commerce was concerned,
was to be tolerated between restraints of such commerce
as were undue or unreasonable, and restraints that were
due or reasonable. With full knowledge of the then condition of the country and of its business, Congress deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

mined to meet, and did meet, the situation by an absolute,
statutory prohibition of "every contract, combination in
the form of trust or otherwise, in restraint of trade or
commerce." Still more; in response to the suggestion by
able counsel that Congress intended only to strike down
such contracts, combinations and monopolies as unreasonably restrained interstate commerce, this court, in words
too clear to be misunderstood, said that to so hold was
"to read into the act by way of judicial legislation, an exception not placed there by the law-making branch of the
Government." "This, the court said, as we have seen,
"we cannot and ought not to do."
It thus appears that fifteen years ago, when the purpose of Congress in passing the Anti-trust Act was fresh in
the minds of courts, lawyers, statesmen and the general
public, this court expressly declined to indulge in judicial
legislation, by inserting in the act the word "unreasonable" or any other word of like import. It may be stated
here that the country at large accepted this view of the
act, and the Federal courts throughout the entire country
enforced its provisions according to the interpretation
given in the Freight Association Case. What, then, was to
be done by those who questioned the soundness of the
interpretation placed on the act by this court in that
case? As the court had decided that to insert the word
"unreasonable" in the act would be "judicial legislation" on its part, the only alternative left to those who
opposed the decision in that case was to induce Congress
to so amend the act as to recognize the right to restrain
interstate commerce to a reasonable extent. The public
press, magazines and law journals, the debates in Congress, speeches and addresses by public men and jurists,
all contain abundant evidence of the general understanding that the meaning, extent and scope of the Anti-trust
Act had been judicially determined by this court, and that
the only question remaining open for discussion was the

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

wisdom of the policy declared by the act-a matter that
was exclusively within the cognizance of Congress. But
at every session of Congress since the decision of 1896,
the lawmaking branch of the Government, with full
knowledge of that decision, has refused to change the
policy it had declared or to so amend the act of 1890 as
to except from its operation contracts, combinations and
trusts that reasonably restrain interstate commerce.
But those who were in combinations that were illegal
did not despair. They at once set up the baseless claim
that the decision of 1896 disturbed the "business interests
of the country," and let it be known that they would
never be content until the rule was established that would
permit interstate commerce to be subjected to reasonable
restraints. Finally, an opportunity came again to raise
the same question which this court had, upon full consideration, determined in 1896. I now allude to the case
of United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S.
505, decided in 1898. What was that case?
It was a suit by the United States against more than
thirty railroad companies to have the court declare illegal,
under the Anti-trust Act, a certain agreement between
these companies. The relief asked was denied in the subordinate Federal courts and the Government brought the
case here.
It is important to state the points urged in that case
by the defendant companies charged with violating the
Anti-trust Act, and to show that the court promptly met
them. To that end I make a copious extract from the
opinion in the Joint Traffic Case. Among other things, the
court said: "Upon comparing that agreement [the one in
the Joint Traffic Case, then under consideration, 171 U. S.
505] with the one set forth in the case of United States v.
Trans-Missouri Freight Association, 166 U. S. 290, the
great similarity between them suggests that a similar
result should be reached in the two cases " (p. 558).

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

Learned counsel in the Joint Traffic Case urged a reconsideration of the question decided in the Trans-MissouriCase
contending that "the decision in that case [the TransMissouri Freight Case] is quite plainly erroneous, and the
consequences of such error are far reaching and disastrous,
and clearly at war with justice and sound policy, and the
construction placed upon the Anti-trust statute has been
received by the public with surprise and alarm." They
suggested that the point made in the Joint Traffic Case
as to the meaning and scope of the act might have been but
was not made in the previous case. The court said (171
U. S. 559) that "the report of the Trans-Missouri Case
clearly shows not only that the point now taken was there
urged upon the attention of the court, but it was then intentionally and necessarily decided."
The question whether the court should again consider
the point decided in the Trans-Missouri Case, 171 U. S.
573, was disposed of in the most decisive language, as follows: "Finally, we are asked to reconsider the question decided in the Trans-MissouriCase, and to retrace the steps
taken therein, because of the plain error contained in that
decision and the widespread alarm with which it was received and the serious consequences which have resulted,
or may soon result, from the law as interpreted in that
case. It is proper to remark that an application for a reconsideration of a question but lately decided by this court
is usually based upon a statement that some of the arguments employed on the original hearing of the question
have been overlooked or misunderstood, or that some controlling authority has been either misapplied by the court
or passed over without discussion or notice. While this is
not strictly an application for a rehearing in the same case,
yet in substance it is the same thing. The court is asked
to reconsider a question but just decided after a careful
investigation of the matter involved. There have heretofore been in effect two arguments of precisely the same

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

questions now before the court, and the same arguments
were addressed to us on both those occasions. The report
of the Trans-MissouriCase shows a dissenting opinion delivered in that case, and that the opinion was concurred in
by three other members of the court. That opinion, it will
be seen, gives with great force and ability the arguments
against the decision which was finally arrived at by the
court. It was after a full discussion of the questions involved and with the knowledge of the views entertained
by the minority as expressed in the dissenting opinion,
that the majority of the court came to the conclusion it did.
Soon after the decision a petition for a rehearing of the case
was made, supported by a printed argument in its favor,
and pressed with an earnestness and vigor and at a length
which were certainly commensurate with the importance
of the case. This court, with care and deliberationand also
with a full appreciation of their importance, again considered the questions involved in its former decision. A majority of the court once more arrived at the conclusion it
had first announced, and accordingly it denied the application. And now for the third time the same arguments are
employed, and the court is again asked to recant its former
opinion, and to decide the same question in direct opposition to the conclusion arrived at in the Trans-Missouri
Case. The learned counsel while making the application
frankly confess that the argument in opposition to the
decision in the case above named has been so fully, so
clearly and so forcibly presented in the dissenting opinion
of Mr. Justice White [in the Freight Case] that it is hardly
possible to add to it, nor is it necessary to repeat it. The
fact that there was so close a division of opinion in this
court when the matter was first under advisement, together with the different views taken by some of the judges
of the lower courts, led us to the most careful and scrutinizing examination of the arguments advanced by both sides,
and it was after such an examination that the majority of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

the court came to the conclusion it did. It is not now alleged that the court on the former occasion overlooked any
argument for the respondents or misapplied any controlling authority. It is simply insisted that the court, notwithstanding the arguments for an opposite view, arrived
at an erroneous result, which, for reasons already stated,
ought to be reconsidered and reversed. As we have twice
already deliberately and earnestly considered the same arguments which are now for a third time pressed upon our attention, it could hardly be expected that our opinion should
now change from that already expressed."
These utterances, taken in connection with what was
previously said in the Trans-MissouriFreight Case, show
so clearly and affirmatively as to admit of no doubt that
this court, many years ago, upon thq fullest consideration,
interpreted the Anti-trust Act as prohibiting and making
illegal not only every contract or combination, in whatever
form, which was in restraint of interstate commerce, without regard to its reasonableness or unreasonableness, but
all monopolies or attempts to monopolize "any part" of
such trade or commerce. Let me refer to a few other cases
in which the scope of the decision in the FreightAssociation
Case was referred to: In Bement v. National Harrow Co.,
186 U. S. 70, 92, the court said: "It is true that it has been
held by this court that the act (Anti-trust Act) included
any restraint of commerce, whether reasonable or unreasonable "-citing United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight
Asso., 166 U. S. 290; United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505; Addyston Pipe &c.Co. v. United States,
175 U. S. 211. In Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38, 46,
which involved the validity, under the Anti-trust Act, of
a certain association formed for the sale of tiles, mantels,
and grates, the court referring to the contention that the
sale of tiles in San Francisco was so small "as to be a negligible quantity," held that the association was nevertheless a combination in restraint of interstate trade or com-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

merce in violation of the Anti-trust Act. In Loewe v.
Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, 297, all the members of this court
concurred in saying that the Trans-Missouri,Joint Traffic
and Northern Securities cases "hold in effect that the Antitrust Law has a broader application than the prohibition
of restraints of trade unlawful at common law." In Shawnee Compress Co. v. Anderson (1907), 209 U. S. 423, 432,
434, all the members of the court again concurred in declaring that "it has been decided that not only unreasonable, but all direct restraints of trade are prohibited, the
law being thereby distinguished from the common law."
In United States v. Addyston Pipe Company, 85 Fed. Rep.
271, 278, Judge Taft, speaking for the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, said that according to the decision of this court in the FreightAssociation Case, "contracts
in restraint of interstate transportation were within the
statute, whether the restraints could be regarded as reasonable at common law or not." In Chesapeake & Ohio Fuel
Co. v. United States (1902), 115 Fed. Rep. 610, 619, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, after referring
to the right of Congress to regulate interstate commerce,
thus interpreted the prior decisions of this court in the
Trans-Missouri, the Joint Traffic and the Addyston Pipe
and Steel Co. cases: "In the exercise of this right, Congress
has seen fit to prohibit all contracts in restraint of trade.
It has not left to the courts the consideration of the question whether such restraint is reasonable or unreasonable,
or whether the contract would have been illegal at the common law or not. The act leaves for consideration by judicial authority no question of this character, but all contracts and combinations are declared illegal if in restraint
of trade or commerce among the States." As far back as
Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489, 497, it
was held that certain local regulations, subjecting drummers engaged in both interstate and domestic trade, could
not be sustained by reason of the fact that no discrimina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

tion was made among citizens of the different States. The
court observed that this did not meet the difficulty, for the
reason that "interstate commerce cannot be taxed at all."
Under this view Congress no doubt acted, when by the Antitrust Act it forbade any restraint whatever upon interstate
commerce. It manifestly proceeded upon the theory that
interstate commerce could not be restrained at all by combinations, trusts or monopolies, but must be allowed to
flow in its accustomed channels, wholly unvexed and unobstructed by anything that would restrain its ordinary
movement. See also Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S.313,
326; Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S.78, 82, 83.
In the opinion delivered on behalf of the minority in
the Northern Securities Case, 193 U. S. 197, our present
Chief Justice referred to the contentions made by the defendants in the Freight Association Case, one of which was
that the agreement there involved did not unreasonably
restrain interstate commerce, and said: "Both these contentions were decided against the association, the court
holding that the Anti-trust Act did embrace interstate
carriage by railroad corporations, and as that act prohibited any contract in restraint of interstate commerce, it
hence embraced all contracts of that character, whether they
were reasonable or unreasonable." One of the Justices who
dissented in the Northern Securities Case ina separate opinion, concurred in by the minority, thus referred to the
Freight and Joint Traffic cases: "For it cannot be too carefully remembered that that clause applies to 'every' contract of the forbidden kind-a consideration which was the
turning point of the Trans-Missouri Freight Association
case.

.

.

.

Size has nothing to do with the matter.

A monopoly of 'any part' of commerce among the States
is unlawful."
In this connection it may be well to refer to the adverse
report made in 1909, by Senator Nelson, on behalf of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, in reference to a certain bill

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN, J., concurring and dissenting.

offered in the Senate and which proposed to amend the
Anti-trust Act in various particulars. That report contains a full, careful and able analysis of judicial decisions
relating to combinations and monopolies in restraint of
trade and commerce. Among other things said in it which
bear on the questions involved in the present case are
these: "The Anti-trust Act makes it a criminal offense to
violate the law, and provides a punishment both by fine
and imprisonment. To inject into the act the question of
whether an agreement or combination is reasonable or unreasonablewould render the act as a criminal or penal statute indefinite and uncertain, and hence, to that extent, utterly nugatory and void, and would practically amount to
a repeal of that part of the act.

.

.

.

And while the

same technical objection does not apply to civil prosecutions, the injection of the rule of reasonablenessor unreasonablenesswould lead to the greatest variablenessand uncertainty
in the enforcement of the law. The defense of reasonable restraintwould be made in every case and there would be as many
different rules of reasonableness as cases, courts and juries.
What one court or jury might deem unreasonable another
court or jury might deem reasonable. A court or jury in
Ohio might find a given agreement or combination reasonable, while a court and jury in Wisconsin might find the
same agreement and combination unreasonable. In the
case of People v. Sheldon, 139 N. Y. 264, Chief Justice
Andrews remarks: 'If agreements and combinations to
prevent competition in prices are or may be hurtful to
trade, the only sure remedy is to prohibit all agreements of
that character. If the validity of such an agreement was
made to depend upon actual proof of public prejudice or
injury, it would be very difficult in any case to establish
the invalidity, although the moral evidence might be very
convincing.'

.

.

.

To amend the Anti-trust Act, as

suggested by this bill, would be to entirely emasculate it,
and for all practical purposes render it nugatory as a remevoL. ccxxI-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

dial statute. Criminal prosecutions would not lie and civil
remedies would labor under the greatest doubt and uncertainty. The act as it exists is clear, comprehensive, certain and highly remedial. It practically covers the field
of Federal jurisdiction, and is in every respect a model law.
To destroy or undermine it at the present juncture, when
combinations are on the increase, and appear to be as oblivious as ever of the rights of the public, would be a calamity." The result was the indefinite postponement by
the Senate of any further consideration of the proposed
amendments of the Anti-trust Act.
After what has been adjudged, upon full consideration,
as to the meaning and scope of the Anti-trust Act, and in
view of the usages of this court when attorneys for litigants
have attempted to reopen questions that have been deliberately decided, I confess to no little surprise as to what
has occurred in the present case. The court says that the
previous cases, above cited, "cannot by any possible conception be treated as authoritative without the certitude
that reason was resorted to for the purpose of deciding
them." And its opinion is full of intimations that this
court proceeded in those cases, so far as the present
question is concerned, without being guided by the "rule of
reason," or "the light of reason." It is more than once
intimated, if not suggested, that if the Anti-trust Act is to
be construed as prohibiting every contract or combination,
of whatever nature, which is in fact in restraint of commerce, regardless of the reasonableness or unreasonableness of such restraint, that fact would show that the court
had not proceeded, in its decision, according to "the light
of reason," but had disregarded the "rule of reason." If
the court, in those cases, was wrong in its construction of
the act, it is certain that it fully apprehended the views
advanced by learned counsel in previous cases and pronounced them to be untenable. The published reports
place this beyond all question. The opinion of the court

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

99

J., concurring and dissenting.

was delivered by a Justice of wide experience as a judicial
officer, and the court had before it the Attorney General
of the United States and lawyers who were recognized, on
all sides, as great leaders in their profession. The same
eminent jurist who delivered the opinion in the TransMissouri Case delivered the opinion in the Joint Traffic Association Case, and the Association in that case was represented by lawyers whose ability was universally recognized.
Is it to be supposed that any point escaped notice in those
cases when we think of the sagacity of the Justice who expressed the views of the court, or of the ability of the profound, astute lawyers, who sought such an interpretation
of the act as would compel the court to insert words in the
statute which Congress had not put there, and the insertion of which words, would amount to "judicial legislation"? Now this court is asked to do that which it has
distinctly declared it could not and would not do, and has
now done what it then said it could not constitutionally
do. It has, by mere interpretation, modified the act of
Congress, and deprived it of practical value as a defensive
measure against the evils to be remedied. On reading the
opinion just delivered, the first inquiry will be, that as the
court is unanimous in holding that the particular things
done by the Standard Oil Company and its subsidiary
companies, in this case, were illegal under the Anti-trust
Act, whether those things were in reasonable or unreasonable restraint of interstate commerce, why was it necessary
to make an elaborate argument, as is done in the opinion,
to show that according to the "rule of reason" the act as
passed by Congress should be interpreted as if it contained
the word "unreasonable" or the word "undue"? The only
answer which, in frankness, can be given to this question
is, that the court intends to decide that its deliberate judgment, fifteen years ago, to the effect that the act permitted
no restraint whatever of interstate commerce, whether
reasonable or unreasonable, was not in accordance with

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

the "rule of reason." In effect the court says, that it will
now, for the first time, bring the discussion under the
"light of reason" and apply the "rule of reason" to the
questions to be decided. I have the authority of this court
for saying that such a course of proceeding on its part
would be "judicial legislation."
Still more, what is now done involves a serious departure from the settled usages of this court. Counsel have
not ordinarily been allowed to discuss questions already
settled by previous decisions. More than once at the present term, that rule has been applied. In St. Louis, I. M. &
S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 295, the court had occasion to determine the meaning and scope of the original
Safety Appliance Act of Congress passed for the protection of railroad employ6s and passengers on interstate
trains. 27 Stat. 531, § 5, c. 196. A particular construction
of that act was insisted upon by the interstate carrier
which was sued under the Safety Appliance Act; and the
contention was that a different construction, than the one
insisted upon by the carrier, would be a harsh one. After
quoting the words of the act, Mr. Justice Moody said for
the court: "There is no escape from the meaning of these
words. Explanation cannot clarify them, and ought not
to be employed to confuse them or lessen their significance. The obvious purpose of the legislature was to supplant the qualified duty of the common law with an absolute
duty deemed by it more just. If the railroad does, in point
of fact, use cars which do not comply with the standard,
it violates the plain prohibitions of the law, and there arises
from that violation the liability to make compensation to
one who is injured by it. It is urged that this is a harsh
construction. To this we reply that, if it be the true construction, its harshness is no concern of the courts. They
have no responsibilityfor the justice or wisdom of legislation,
and no duty except to enforce the law as it is written, unless
it is clearly beyond the constitutionalpower of the lawmaking

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

body..... .It
is quite conceivable that Congress, contemplating the inevitable hardship of such injuries, and
hoping to diminish the economic loss to the community
resulting from them, should deem it wise to impose their
burdens upon those who could measurably control their
causes, instead of upon those who are in the main helpless
in that regard. Such a policy would be intelligible, and, to
say the least, not so unreasonable as to require us to doubt
that it was intended, and to seek some unnatural interpretation of common words. We see no error in this part of
the case." And at the present term of this court we were
asked, in a case arising under the Safety Appliance Act, to
reconsider the question decided in the Taylor Case. We declined to do so, saying in an opinion just now handed down:
"In view of these facts, we are unwilling to regard the question as to the meaning and scope of the Safety Appliance
Act, so far as it relates to automatic couplers on trains moving in interstate traffic, as open to further discussion here.
If the court was wrong in the Taylor case the way is open for
such an amendment of the statute as Congress may, in its discretion, deem proper. This court ought not now to disturb
what has been so widely accepted and acted upon by the
courts as having been decided in that case. A contrary
course would cause infinite uncertainty, if not mischief,
in the administration of the law in the Federal courts.
To avoid misapprehension, it is appropriate to say that we
are not to be understood as questioning the soundness of
the interpretation heretofore placed by this court upon the
Safety Appliance Act. We only mean to say that until
Congress, by an amendment of the statute, changes the
rule announced in the Taylor Case, this court will adhere to
and apply that rule." C., B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. United States,
220 U. S. 559. When counsel in the present case insisted
upon a reversal of the former rulings of this court, and
asked such an interpretation of the Anti-trust Act as would
allow reasonable restraints of interstate commerce, this

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

court, in deference to established practice, should, I submit,
have said to them: "That question, according to our practice, is not open for further discussion here. This court
long ago deliberately held (1) that the act, interpreting its
words in their ordinary acceptation, prohibits all restraints
of interstate commerce by combinations in whatever form,
and whether reasonable or unrea3onable; (2) the question
relates to matters of public policy in reference to commerce
among the States and with foreign nations, and Congress
alone can deal with the subject; (3) this court would encroach upon the authority of Congress if, under the guise
of construction, it should assume to determine a matter of
public policy; (4) the parties must go to Congress and obtain an amendment of the Anti-trust Act if they think this
court was wrong in its former decisions; and (5) this court
cannot and will not judicially legislate, since its function is
to declare the law, while it belongs to the legislative department to make the law. Such a course, I am sure,
would not have offended the "rule of reason."
But my brethren, in their wisdom, have deemed it best
to pursue a different course. They have now said to those
who condemn our former decisions and who object to
all legislative prohibitions of contracts, combinations and
trusts in restraint of interstate commerce, "You may now
restrain such commerce, provided you are reasonable about
it; only take care that the restraint in not undue." The
disposition of the case under consideration, according to
the views of the defendants, will, it is claimed, quiet and
give rest to "the business of the country." On the contrary, I have a strong conviction that it will throw the
business of the country into confusion and invite widelyextended and harassing litigation, the injurious effects of
which will be felt for many years to come. When Congress
prohibited every contract, combination or nonopoly, in
restraint of commerce, it prescribed a simple, definite rule
that all could understand, and which could be easily ap-

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

10

J., concurring and dissenting.

plied by everyone wishing to obey the law, and not to
conduct their business in violation of law. But now, it
is to be feared, we are to have, in cases without number,
the constantly recurring inquiry-difficult to solve by
proof-whether the particular contract, combination, -or
trust involved in each case is or is not an "unreasonable"
or "undue" restraint of trade. Congress, in effect, said
that there should be no restraint of trade, in any form,
and this court solemnly adjudged many years ago that
Congress meant what it thus said in clear and explicit
words, and that it could not add to the words of the act.
But those who condemn the action of Congress are now,
in effect, informed that the courts will allow such restraints
of interstate commerce as are shown not to be unreasonable or undue.
It remains for me to refer, more fully than I have heretofore done, to another, and, in my judgment-if we look to
the future-the most important aspect of this case. That
aspect concerns the usurpation by the judicial branch of
the Government of the functions of the legislative department. The illustrious men who laid the foundations of
our institutions, deemed no part of the National Constitution of more consequence or more essential to the permanancy of our form of government than the provisions
under which were distributed the powers of Government
among three separate, equal and codrdinate departments
-legislative, executive, and judicial. This was at that
time a new feature of governmental regulation among the
nations of the earth, and it is deemed by the people of
every section of our own country as most vital in the
workings of a representative republic whose Constitution
was ordained and established in order to accomplish the
objects stated in its Preamble by the means, but only
by the means, provided either expressly or by necessary
implication, by the instrument itself. No department
of that government can constitutionally exercise the

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
HARLAN,

J., concurring and dissenting.

221 U. S.

powers committed strictly to another and separate department.
I said at the outset that the action of the court in this
case might well alarm thoughtful men who revered the
Constitution. I meant by this that many things are intimated and said in the court's opinion which will not be
regarded otherwise than as sanctioning an invasion by the
judiciary of the constitutional domain of Congress-an
attempt by interpretation to soften or modify what some
regard as a harsh public policy. This court, let me repeat,
solemnly adjudged many years ago that it could not, except by "judicial legislation," read words into the Antitrust Act not put there by Congress, and which, being inserted, give it a meaning which the words of the Act, as
passed, if properly interpreted, would not justify. The
court has decided that it could not thus change a public
policy formulated and declared by Congress; that Congress
has paramount authority to regulate interstate commerce,
and that it alone can change a policy once inaugurated by
legislation. The courts have nothing to do with the wisdom or policy of an act of Congress. Their duty is to ascertain the will of Congress, and if the statute embodying the
expression of that will is constitutional, the courts must
respect it. They have no function to declare a public
policy, nor to amend legislative enactments. "What is
termed the policy of the Government with reference to any
particular legislation," as this court has said, "is generally
a very uncertain thing, upon which all sorts of opinions,
each variant from the other, may be formed by different
persons. It is a ground much too unstable upon which to
rest the judgment of the court in the interpretation of
statutes." Haddenv. Collector, 5 Wall. 107. Nevertheless,
if I do not misapprehend its opinion, the court has now
read into the act of Congress words which are not to be
found there, and has thereby done that which it adjudged
in 1896 and 1898 could not be done without violating

STANDARD OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

HARLAN,

105

J., concurring and dissenting.

the Constitution, namely, by interpretation of a statute,
changed a public policy declared by the legislative department.
After many years of public service at the National
Capital, and after a somewhat close observation of the
conduct of public affairs, I am impelled to say that there is
abroad, in our land, a most harmful tendency to bring
about the amending of constitutions and legislative enactments by means alone of judicial construction. As a public policy has been declared by the legislative department
in respect of interstate commerce, over which Congress
has entire control, under the Constitution, all concerned
must patiently submit to what has been lawfully done, until the People of the United States-the source of all National power-shall, in their own time, upon reflection and
through the legislative department of the Government,
require a change of that policy. There are some who say
that it is a part of one's liberty to conduct commerce
among the States without being subject to governmental
authority. But that would not be liberty, regulated by
law, and liberty, which cannot be regulated by law, is not
to be desired. The Supreme Law of the Land-which is
binding alike upon all-upon Presidents, Congresses, the
,Courts-and the People-gives to Congress, and to Congress alone, authority to regulate interstate commerce,
and when Congress forbids any restraint of such commerce,
in any form, all must obey its mandate. To overreach
the action of Congress merely by judicial construction,
that is, by indirection, is a blow at the integrity of our
governmental system, and in the end will prove most dangerous to all. Mr. Justice Bradley wisely said, when on
this Bench, that illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get their first footing by silent approaches and slight
deviations from legal modes of legal procedure. Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616, 635. We shall do well to
heed the warnings of that great jurist.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

I do not stop to discuss the merits of the policy embodied in the Anti-trust Act of 1890; for, as has been often adjudged, the courts, under our constitutional system, have
no rightful concern with the wisdom or policy of legislation enacted by that branch of the Government which
alone can make laws.
For the reasons stated, while concurring in the general
affirmance of the decree of the Circuit Court, I dissent from
that part of the judgment of this court which directs the
modification of the decree of the Circuit Court, as well as
from those parts of the opinion which, in effect, assert
authority, in this court, to insert words in the Anti-trust
Act which Congress did not put there, and which, being
inserted, Congress is made to declare, as part of the public
policy of the country, what it has not chosen to declare.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. AMERICAN
TOBACCO COMPANY.
AMERICAN

TOBACCO COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA.

APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 118, 119. Argued January 3, 4, 5, 6, 1910; restored to docket for reargument April 11, 1910; reargued January 9, 10, 11, 12, 1911.-Decided
May 29, 1911.

Standard Oil Co. v. United States, ante, p. 1, followed and reaffirmed
as to the construction to be given to the Anti-trust Act of July 2,
1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209; and held that the combination in this case
is one in restraint of trade and an attempt to monopolize the business of tobacco in interstate commerce within the prohibitions of
the act.

