OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Parties.

221 U. S.

ORIENT INSURANCE COMPANY v. BOARD OF
ASSESSORS FOR THE PARISH OF ORLEANS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.

No. 397. Argued April 18, 19, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.
Liverpool & London & Globe Insurance Co. v. Assessors, ante, p. 346,
followed and applied as to right of State to tax insurance premiums
due and extended by residents to non-resident companies although
such premiums were due from local agents and not from policy
holders.
Quiere whether any Federal question was raised on this record as to
excessive valuation of taxable credits; but the assessments not being
nullities, plaintiffs in error have not been deprived of their property
without due process of law.
A State has power to fix a reasonable time within which actions for
reduction of assessments must be taken. Kentucky Union Co. v.
Kentucky, 219 U. S. 156.
Where a state statute prescribes a method for review and reduction of
excessive valuation for taxes the remedy must be availed of within
the prescribed period; and one not availing thereof in time cannot
attack the assessment as depriving him of property without due
process of law.
124 Louisiana, 872, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality and
validity of tax assessments on a foreign insurance company in Louisiana, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Monte M. Lemann and Mr. Alexander C. King,
with whom Mr. Harry H. Hall, Mr. J. Blanc Monroe
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George H. Terriberry, Mr. H. Garland Dupr6 and
Mr. Harry P. Sneed, for defendants in error.

ORIENT INS. CO. v. ASSESSORS OF ORLEANS. 359
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to review a judgment in a consolidated suit brought by a number of foreign insurance
corporations, doing business in Louisiana, to cancel assessments made by the Board of Assessors for the Parish
of Orleans for the years 1906, 1907 and 1908, and in the
alternative for their reduction as excessive.
The assessments, so far as they are in question here,
were for premiums due on open account. In the course
of the suit, a stipulation was made setting forth the true
amount of these premiums. By the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State, the assessments for the year
1908 were reduced to the amount shown by the stipulation, but those for the years 1906 and 1907 were sustained
on the ground that the suit for reduction had not been
brought within the time prescribed by law. 124 Louisiana, 872.
With respect to the taxability of the premium accounts
owing by Louisiana debtors, the question is the same as
that presented in the case of Liverpool & London & Globe
Insurance Company v. Board of Assessors for the Parish of
Orleans, decided this day, ante, p. 346.
But it is said, upon the testimony in this record, that
the debts were not due to the corporations by the policy
holders, but by their Louisiana agents; that the premiums
were charged to the agents, and that the corporations
themselves gave no credit to the policy holders. In their
petition in the state court the plaintiffs alleged that the
only credits of any kind for money due to them were
"uncollected premiums, due, under open account." They
also set forth that, protesting against the legality of the
tax, they had made reports under the statute showing the
"uncollected premiums" for the years in question. And
in their stipulation "the actual amounts of outstanding
premiums" Were stated. If, however, it can be said that

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

these accounts were due from the agents, still this would
not avail the plaintiffs. The premiums were the considertion for the insurance contracts; they were the returns
from the local business. Charging the premiums to the
local agents did not withdraw the credits accruing to the
corporations in the business transacted within the State
from its taxing power.
It is also insisted that the assessments must be adjudged
invalid upon the ground that they were shown to be grossly
excessive and to have been the result of mere guesswork; and, further, that the assessors disregarded the
reports made by the plaintiffs, and that their applications
to be heard were refused because a test case was pending.
Whether, with respect to these contentions, any Federal
question can be said to have been raised in the state court
is open to serious doubt. But it does not appear that the
constitutional rights of the plaintiffs have been violated.
It would be going too far to say that the assessments were
nullities, or that the plaintiffs had been deprived of their
property without due process of law. People ex rel. Brooklyn City Railroad Co. v. New York State Board of Tax
Commissioners, 199 U. S., pp. 51, 52. The assessments
were in fact made by the officers charged with that duty
under the statute; if excessive, there was opportunity for
review and correction. The plaintiffs have not been held
bound by the assessment by reason of finality in the action
of the assessors. See Central of Georgia Railway Co. v.
Wright, 207 U. S. 127, p. 139. They had right of recourse
to the courts of the State. If they are compelled to pay
more than the amounts admitted by the stipulation, it is
because they did not sue in time. They have procured a
suitable reduction of the assessment for the year 1908;
and a similar result could have been reached for the years
1906 and 1907, had action been taken within the period
prescribed. It was competent for the legislature to fix a
reasonable time within which actions for reductions

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

should be instituted, and there was no violation of the
Federal Constitution in adjudging the rights of the plaintiffs accordingly. Kentucky Union Co. v. Kentucky, 219
U. S., pp. 156, 157; Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana is
affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

WILSON v. UNITED STATES.
SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO, AND APPEALS FROM,

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK.

Nos. 759, 760, 788.

Argued March 2, 3, 1911.-Decided April 15, 1911.

Hale v. Henkel, 201 U..S. 43, followed to effect that a witness properly
subpoenaed cannot refuse to answer questions propounded by the
grand jury on the ground that there is no cause or specific charge
pending.
The ad testificandum clause is not essential to the validity of a subpoena duces tecum, and the production of papers by one having them
under his control may be enforced independently of his testimony.
Where the subpoena duces tecum contains the usual ad testificandum
clause it is not necessary to have the person producing the papers
sworn as a witness. The papers may be proved by others.
The right of one responding to a subpoena duces tecum to show why he
need not produce does not depend on the ad testificandum clause,
but is incidental to the requirement to produce.
Corporate existence implies amenability to legal powers, and a subpoena duces tecum may be directed to a corporation.
A corporation is under a duty to produce records, books and papers in
its possession when they may be properly required in the administration of justice.

