280

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

erty that may tell one's story. As the bankruptcy court
could have enforced title in favor of the trustee, it could
enforce possession ad interim in favor of the receiver.
ยง 2. In the properly careful provision to protect him from
use of the books in aid of prosecution the bankrupt got all
that he could ask. The question certified is answered
Yes.

STRASSHEIM, SHERIFF OF COOK COUNTY, v.
DAILY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 638.

Argued April 3, 4, 1911.-Decided May 15, 1911.

In a habeas corpus proceeding in extradition it is sufficient if the count
in the indictment plainly shows that the defendant is charged with
a crime. Pierce v. Creecy, 210 U. S. 387.
Where a guaranty goes not to newness but to fitness of articles furnished, it is a material fraud to furnish old articles even if they cab
meet the test of the guaranty; and the fact that the purchaser may
rely on the guaranty does not exclude the possibility that the purchase price was obtained by false representations as to the newness of
the articles.
A State may punish one committing crimes done outside its jurisdiction for the purpose of producing detrimental effects within it when
it gets the criminal within its power.
Commission of the crimes alleged in this indictment-bribery of a
public officer and obtaining public money under false pretenseswarrants punishment by the State aggrieved even if the offender did
not come into the State until after the fraud was complete.
An overt act becomes retrospectively guilty when the contemplated
result ensues.
One who is never within the State before the commission of a crime producing its results within its jurisdiction is not a fugitive from justice
within the rendition provisions of the Constitution, Hyatt v. Cork-

STRASSHEIM v. DAILY.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ran, 188 U. S. 691, but, if he commits some overt and material act
within the State and then absents himself, he becomes a fugitive from
justice when the crime is complete if not before.
Although absent from the State when the crime was completed in this
case, the party charged became a fugitive from justice by reason of
his having committed certain material steps towards the crime within
the State, and the demanding State is entitled to his surrender under
Art. IV, ยง 2 of the Constitution of the United States and the statutes providing for the surrender of fugitives from justice.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas E. Barkworth, with whom Mr. Franz C.
Kuhn, Attorney General of the State of Michigan, Mr.
Ferdinand L. Barnett and Mr. Charles W. McGill were
on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. William S. Forrest for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from an order on habeas corpus discharging the respondent, Daily, from custody under a
warrant of the Governor of Illinois directing his extradition to Michigan as a fugitive from justice from that State.
Daily, it appears, had been indicted in Michigan for bribery and also for obtaining money from the State by false
pretenses, and a requisition had been issued to which the
warrant of the Governor of Illinois was the response. The
District Judge who issued the habeas corpuswas of opinion,
however, that the facts alleged in the indictment for obtaining money by false pretenses did not constitute a crime
against the laws of Michigan and that the evidence showed
that Daily was not a fugitive from justice. We will consider these two questions in turn.
The third count of the indictment is the only one that
needs to be stated, although all the counts alleged a false
representation that certain machinery, to be sold to the
State, was new, whereas in fact it was second-hand and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

used, and the obtaining from the State of ten thousand
dollars by means of such representation. The third count
alleges that one Armstrong was warden of the Michigan
State prison at Jackson, and, in conjunction with the
Board of Control of the prison, authorized to buy machinery for a cordage plant in the prison; that he was authorized to accept the machinery and to pay for it from the
funds of the State under his control; that said Board and
Armstrong contracted with the Hoover and Gamble Company, acting through Daily, the agent, and one Eminger,
the secretary of the company, for the purchase of such
machinery, all of which, by the contract, was to be new;
that Armstrong, Daily and Eminger had agreed beforehand to substitute old, worn and second-hand machinery,
of less value, for that which was contracted for, the Board
being ignorant of their intent and being deceived and defrauded by the substitution; that the second-hand machinery having been substituted, Armstrong, Daily and Eminger, with intent to cheat the State, to wit, on the first day
of May, 1908, falsely pretended that the machinery so
furnished was the new machinery required by the contract, and rendered bills for the same at the contract prices;
that the bills were audited and allowed by Armstrong and
the machinery paid for as new machinery, and that Armstrong, Daily and Eminger, by means of the false pretenses
set up, obtained from the State of Michigan money, to
wit, ten thousand dollars, the State and the Board of
Control relying upon the false pretenses and being deceived
thereby. We sum up the count thus broadly, because,
although considerable ingenuity was spent in pointing

out defects that would occur to no one outside of the
criminal law, yet, whatever may be thought of the criticisms in Michigan, it is plain that the count shows that
the defendant 'was substantially charged with a crime,'
and upon habeas corpus in extradition proceedings, that
is enough. Pierce'v. Creecy, 210 U. S. 387, 405.

STRASSHEIM v. DAILY.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It would seem, although the record is otherwise, that
the judge below really went on the ground that the terms
of the contract excluded a reliance upon the false representation alleged. The contract after stating that it was for
"all new machinery to be manufactured by the Hoover &
Gamble Company," contained a guaranty that the machinery should be "constructed in a thorough manner free from
any defects of machinery or workmanship and finished in
a first-class manner." It also provided for the retention of
the last quarter of the price "until the machinery is all
installed and tested, and operating, so as to fulfill the
guaranty above given, to the satisfaction and approval
of C. G. Wrentmore, Cons. Engr. of the Board of Control."
The case is not to be tried on habeas corpus. Therefore it
is enough to say that the guaranty and testing clauses do
not exclude the possibility that the money was obtained
by the false pretenses alleged. The guaranty goes, not
to newness, but to workmanship and freedom from defects,
and the approval of the consulting engineer is required only
to show that the guaranty is fulfilled. The guaranty does
not exclude other representations and undertakings. As
has been seen it was expressed in the contract that the
subject-matter of the guaranty was machinery to be manufactured and new. If old machinery was put in and represented to be new it was a material fraud.
We come then to the other question, whether the facts
show that the defendant is a fugitive from justice. The
bribery is laid under a videlicet as taking place on May 13,
1908; the false pretenses are averred to have been made
on May 1, of the same year. On both of these dates the
defendant was in Chicago. What happened, in short,
was this. Daily had tried to sell second-hand machinery,
in which he had an interest, to the State, and it was rejected. At the time of receiving notice, or afterwards, but
within ten days before July 22, 1907, he had a conversation with Armstrong in Chicago, in which he said it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

a mistake not to accept his proposition; that he thought
it could be arranged, and that there would be a nice present
in it for Armstrong, which he said would be 'one thousand
dollars anyway.' In the affidavit of Armstrong accompanying the requisition it is stated explicitly that the present
was offered if Armstrong would let Daily substitute his
old machinery for new in case a contract should be made.
On July 22, 1907, the successful bid of the Hoover and
Gamble Company was sent in. It was signed by Daily,
and Daily was with the ,Board of Control in Michigan,
accompanying it, when it was considered and accepted.
He had made a previous visit to the Board in the spring,
and he was there in November to see the machinery and
to delay shipment. At the latter date he told Armstrong
that Eminger, the Secretary of the Company, had objected to the word 'new' in the contract and was afraid
they would have trouble with the Consulting Engineer,
but Armstrong replied that he did not think they would
have any trouble with him. Finally, in April, 1908, Daily
was at the prison again, in further execution of the program
arranged by him and Armstrong, as the judge below properly found. Armstrong's affidavit states that Daily did
substitute his old machinery, that it was understood that
Armstrong was not to communicate the fact to the proper
officer of the State or to the Board of Control, that the
plant was put in, that the contract price was paid in full,
and that thereafter Daily paid Armstrong fifteen hundred
dollars, as he had agreed. But it may be assumed, for the
moment, that Daily personally did no act in Michigan in
any way connected with his plan otherwise than as we have
stated above.
If a jury should believe the evidence and find that Daily
did the acts that led Armstrong to betray his trust, deceived the Board of Control, and induced by fraud the
payment by the State, the usage of the civilized world
would warrant Michigan in punishing him, although he

STRASSHEIM v. DAILY.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

never had set foot in the State until after the fraud was
complete. Acts done outside a jurisdiction, but intended
to produce and producing detrimental effects within it,
justify a State in punishing the cause of the harm as if he
had been present at the effect, if the State should succeed
in getting him within its power. Commonwealth v. Smith,
11 Allen, 243, 256, 259. Simpson v. State, 92 Georgia, 41.
American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347,
356. Commonwealth v. Macloon, 101 Massachusetts, 1, 6,
18. We may assume therefore that Daily is a criminal
under the laws of Michigan.
Of course we must admit that it does not follow that
Daily is a fugitive from justice. Hyatt v. Corkran, 188
U. S. 691, 712. On the other hand, however, we think it
plain that the criminal need not do within the State every
act necessary to complete the crime. If he does there an
overt act which is and is intended to be a material step
toward accomplishing the crime, and then absents himself
from the State and does the rest elsewhere, he becomes
a fugitive from justice, when the crime is complete,. if. no
before. In re Cook, 49 Fed. Rep. 833, 843, 844. Ex .ptt
Hoffstot, 180 Fed. Rep. 240,243. In re William Sultath 145
No. Car. 57. For all that is necessary to convert ariniinal under the laws of a State into a fugitive from justice
is that he should have left the State after having iacarred
guilt there, Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, and his .oert
act becomes retrospectively guilty when the contemplated
result ensues. Thus in this case offering the bid and receiving the acceptance were material steps in the scheme,
they were taken in Michigan, and they were established in
their character of guilty acts when the plot was carried to
the end, even if the intent with which those steps were
taken did not make Daily guilty before. Swift v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 396.
We have given more attention to the question of time
than it is entitled to, because of the seeming exactness of

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Syllabus.

221 U. S.

the evidence. But a shorter and sufficient answer is to
repeat that the case is not to be tried on habeas corpus,
and that when, as here, it appears that the prisoner was
in the State in the neighborhood of the time alleged it is
enough.
Judgment reversed, prisoner remanded.

MARCHIE

TIGER v. WESTERN INVESTMENT
COMPANY.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 60. Argued November 30, December 1, 2, 1910; restored to docket
for reargument January 23, 1911; reargued March 1, 2, 1911.-Decided
May 15, 1911.
The obvious purpose of ยง 8 of the act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat.
312, was to continue supervision over the right of full-blood Indians
to dispose of lands by will, and to require conveyances of interests
,of full-blood Indians in inherited lands to be approved by a competent court.
W]hen several acts of Congress are passed touching the same subjectmatter, subsequent legislation may be considered to assist in interpi-etation of the prior legislation.
In pa~sing the enabling act for the admission of Oklahoma of June 16,
1906, c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267, Congress preserved the authority of the
Go vernment of the United States over the Indians, their lands and
property, which it had prior to the passage of that act.
The 'act of April 26, 1906, c. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, providing for the final
disposition of the affairs of the Five Civilized Tribes in Indian Territory, while it permitted lands to be conveyed by full-blood Indians,
was nevertheless intended to prevent imprudent sales by this class
of Indians and made such conveyances valid only when affirmed by
the Secretary of the Interior.
Quore whether the constitutionality of an act of Congress limiting a
right of conveyance by a class of Indians can be questioned by the

