OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

221 U. S.

GLUCKSMAN v. HENKEL, UNITED STATES
MARSHAL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 944. Argued April 6, 7, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.
While a person is not to be sent from this country on mere demand or
surmise, this Government should respond to a request for extradition if there is reasonable ground to suppose the accused to be
guilty of an extraditable crime, even if presented in untechnical
form; good faith demands this much in carrying out an extradition
treaty.
Courts are bound by the existence of an extradition treaty to assume
that the trial in the demanding State will be fair.
Where a magistrate of a demanding State certifies of his own knowledge to the identity of photographs, the courts of this country will
presume in extradition proceedings that he had reason for so doing.
In this case held that although the presentation was untechnical it
was sufficient to justify surrender.
Where the complaint calls the instruments alleged to have been forged
bills of exchange and the evidence showed they were promissory
notes the variance will not defeat surrender where the instruments
are identified and there is a plain charge of forgery.
If an extraditable crime under the law of the State where the accused
is found is sufficiently charged, the effect of variance between complaint and proof is a matter to be decided on general principles
irrespective of the law of that State. Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S.
40; Petit v. Walshe, 194 U. S. 205, distinguished.
Even though the complaint be sworn to on information and belief, if
it is supported by testimony of witnesses stated to have deposed,
the court will presume that they were sworn and the complaint is
sufficient. Rice v. Ames, 180 U. S. 371.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Chas. Dushkind for appellant:
A writ of habeas corpus cannot perform the functions of

GLUCKSMAN v. HENKEL.
221 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

a writ of error; nevertheless this court will go behind the
commitment to ascertain whether there was any legal
evidence to give the Commissioner jurisdiction, since in
the absence of some legal proof the Commissioner has no
jurisdiction. Art. 1, Treaty with Russia; Terlinden v.
Ames, 184 U. S. 541.
The laws of the State where the fugitive is found and
not the acts of Congress are to govern in such cases.
Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S. 61; Pettit v. Walshe, 194 U. S.
205.
In New York the magistrate has no jurisdiction and
cannot act unless there is some competent legal proof to
establish a probable cause. People v. Wells, 57 App. Div.
140; Church, Hab. Corp. p. 319; Ex parte Jenkins, Fed.
Cas. No. 7259; In re Henry, 35 N. Y. Supp. 210; Perkins
v. Moss, 187 N. Y. 410; Ex parte Swartwout, 4 Cranch, 75.
The prisoner traversed the return and hence the court
can properly review the evidence to ascertain whether
there was any legal evidence upon which the Commissioner could act. There is no legal evidence in the case
at bar to show that a crime has been committed.
There is no legal proof in the case at bar establishing
the identity of the prisoner, but on the contrary the evidence shows affirmatively that the prisoner is not the
man who is alleged to have committed the crime.
The photographs were not properly authenticated as
evidence by certificates of the consul. In re Henrich, 5
Blatchf. 414; In re McPhun, 30 Fed. Rep. 60.
Assuming that the evidence as to the criminality is sufficient the prisoner must be discharged because the complaint charges the accused with having forged and offered forged bills of exchange whereas the proof shows
that he had forged notes. Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S. 40,
and Pettitv. Walshe, 194 U. S. 205. This case is to be governed by the laws of New York; and People v. Geyer, 196
N. Y. 367, is controlling on this point. See also People v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Appellant.

221 U. S.

Poucher, 30 Hun (N. Y.), 576; Besck v. State, 44 Texas,
620; Bishop on Statutory Crimes, 3d ed., ยง 346; Hamilton
v. State, 28 Am. Rep. 653; State v. Jim, 3 Murph. 3; Commonwealth v. Sweeney, 1 Va. Cas. 151; McAuly v. State, 7
Yerg. 526; Johnston v. State, Mart. & Yerg. 129; Johnson
v. State, 11 Oh. St. 324; State v. Carr, 16 So. Rep. 155;
State v. Cullins, 72 N. Car. 144.
Under the treaty that requires an offense to be a crime
in both countries, it is of course necessary that the laws
of Russia should be proven to show that the forging or
passing of a forged bill of exchange is a crime.
The complaints in extradition cases must describe the
crime with some degree of accuracy in order that the accused may avail himself of the benefit of the rule of law
that he cannot be tried for any other offense than that
charged in the extradition proceedings. United States v.
Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407; Ex parte Hibbs, 26 Fed. Rep.
431; Field, Extra., 107.
The complaint is likewise bad because it fails to set
forth facts sufficient to constitute a crime. The complaint is insufficient and defective and should be dismissed under authority of Rice v. Ames, 180 U. S. 371;
Ex parte Lane, 6 Fed. Rep. 38. Grin v. Shine, 187 U. S.
181, in no way qualifies or modifies the rule laid down.
Rice v. Ames, supra. See Ex parte M'Cabe, 46 Fed. Rep.
368.
Without a sufficient complaint on oath there is no jurisdiction to issue the warrant. In re Heilbonn, 1 Parker,
Crim. R. 436. See also In re Farez, 7 Blatchf. 345; In re
Henrich, 5 Blatchf. 414; Ex parte Lane, supra;In re Roth,
15 Fed. Rep. 507; Whart., Confl. Law, ยง 848; Spear, Extradition, 250; 7 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 623, and note.
The marshal's return to the writ is insufficient because
it shows that both the warrant and the final commitment
are of no legal force inasmuch as no crime is recited therein.
People v. Drayton, 168 N. Y. 12.

GLUCKSMAN v. HENKEL.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This is an extraordinary proceeding and before a person within the jurisdiction of the United States is to be
deprived of his liberty and sent four thousand miles away
as a prisoner to stand trial upon a criminal charge the
greatest caution should be exercised. In re Extradition
of Wedge, 15 Fed. Rep. 866.
The papers in this case show that the real purpose of
this proceeding is not the forgery charge, but that it had
been instituted by creditors as a matter of personal spite,
malice and vengeance. Grin v. Shine, 187 U. S. 133, 134.
The interpretation of statutes has always in modern
times been highly favorable to the personal liberty of the
subject, and should always remain so. Murray v. Reg.,
7 Q. B. 707; United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 95.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert, with whom Mr. Charles A.
Conlon was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a proceeding by habeas corpus and certiorari
to test the validity of a commitment of the appellant,
Glucksman, for extradition to Russia. The Circuit Court
dismissed the writs and remanded the prisoner, who thereupon appealed to this court. The complaint three times
charges the forgery of the signature of one Tugendriach to
bills of exchange for one hundred roubles, and following
each such charge alleges the fraudulent utterance of bills
for the same sum to merchants named Bierenzweig,
Traidenraich and Selinsky, and obtaining goods from them
of that value. This last is alleged to constitute the crime
of uttering forged paper, although it is not expressly alleged that the bills fraudulently uttered were forged, as
pretty plainly is meant. The ground of the appeal is that
there is no sufficient evidence to warrant extradition on
the charge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

It is common in extradition cases to attempt to bring
to bear all the factitious niceties of a criminal trial at
common law. But it is a waste of time. For while of
course a man is not to be sent from the country merely
upon demand or surmise, yet if there is presented, even
in somewhat untechnical form according to our ideas,
such reasonable ground to suppose him guilty as to make
it proper that he should be tried, good faith to the demanding government requires his surrender. Grin v.
Shine, 187 U. S. 181, 184. See Piercev. Creecy, 210 U. S.
387, 405. We are bound by the existence of an extradition treaty to assume that the trial will be fair. The
evidence in this case seems to us sufficient to require us
to affirm the judgment of the Circuit Court.
According to the translation of the Russian documents
accompanying the demand, Birenzweig, a merchant, 'deposed' on July 7, 1910, that the Lodz merchant, Leiba
Glikeman, in the previous June endorsed to him in payment for goods a note for one hundred roubles purporting to be drawn by a Tugendreich who resides in Ozorkov; that a few days later he learned that Glikeman
had left those parts and that he was confirmed by Tugendreich in his suspicion that the note was spurious. Fraidenreich, a merchant, deposed to like effect, giving the
name of the purported drawer of the note as MoschekLeiba Tugendreich. And so did Zelinsky. Birenzweig
and Fraidenreich produced their notes. Moschek-Leiba
Jakubov-Maerov Tugendreich deposed that he was a
merchant in Ozorkov, that he never drew any notes in
Glikeman's favor, that the signatures on the notes produced by Birenzweig and Fraidenreich represented a kind
of imitation of his signature, and that the text of his
notes was written by Glikeman, (with whom he had had
dealings). There is no rational doubt that the evidence
tends to show that Leiba Glikeman, a leather merchant
of Lodz, forged notes of the above-named Tugendreich

GLUCKSMAN v. HENKEL.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and disappeared before July 7, 1910. The prisoner by
his own admission was a leather merchant and came from
Lodz, arriving in New York on or about August 3, 1910.
When first arrested he said that he had enemies on the
other side who were bringing these charges against him,
and, as we think it appears, tried to bribe the officers to
let him go. He also said that the spelling of his name
Glucksman was a typographical error, that his name was
Lewek Glicksman. The Russian magistrate sends a
description of Leiba-Levek Pinkusov Glikeman, which
is worthless, as such descriptions generally are, but adds
certainty to the correspondence of the name of the person
referred to in the proceedings in Russia, with that of the
prisoner, and after the description the magistrate adds:
"A photograph of Glikeman is hereto attached," with
his seal on the card, and the photograph represents the
prisoner. It is objected that there is no deposition that
the photograph represents the party accused, and it may
be that in other circumstances we should require further
proof. But the magistrate in certifying as if of his own
knowledge, presumably had some reason for doing so,
and taking the convergence of the other facts mentioned
toward the prisoner as the party accused, we cannot say
that the Commissioner was wrong in finding the identity
made out.
One or two subordinate matters need but a bare mention. The complaint speaks of bills of exchange, the
evidence shows the forged instruments to have been
promissory notes. The instruments are identified sufficiently and for this purpose no more is needed. Neither
Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S. 40, nor Pettit v. Walshe, 194
U. S. 205, indicates that because the law of New York in
this case may determine whether the prisoner is charged
with an extraditable crime, it is to determine the effect
of such a variance between evidence and complaint. That
is a matter to be decided on general principles, irrespecvoL. ccxxi-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

221 U. S.

tive of the law of the State. The complaint is sworn to
upon information and belief, but it is supported by the
testimony of witnesses who are stated to have deposed
and whom therefore we must presume to have been
sworn. That is enough. Rice v. Ames, 180 U. S. 371,
375.
Judgment affirmed.

APSEY, RECEIVER OF THE FIRST NATIONAL
BANK OF CHELSEA, v. KIMBALL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.

SAME v. WHITTEMORE.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Nos. 132, 133.

Argued April 20, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

Shareholders who have complied, so far as steps required to be done
on their part are concerned, with the provisions of the act of July 12,
1882, 22 Stat. 162, c. 290, in regard to withdrawing from a national
banking association, two-thirds of the shareholders whereof have
asked for a renewal of the charter, cease to be members of the association, even if, through no fault of their own, the final action is not
taken; and such shareholders are not liable for assessments subsequently made by the Comptroller of the Currency under ยง 5151, Rev.
Stat.
164 Fed. Rep. 830, and 199 Massachusetts, 65, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of ยง 5151,
Rev. Stat., and the liability of shareholders in national
banks thereunder, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George L. Wilson for plaintiff in error.

