FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

Syllabus.

all of them, and that until it declares its intention no
rights can be acquired by others under the mining laws.
We are not called upon to discuss the contention. It is
alleged in the answer that the State has selected and received grants from the United States for the full amount
of 110,000 acres, "selected and located as provided in §§ 7

and 8 of the Enabling Act." As the State demurred to the
answer, the truth of the allegation must be considered as
admitted.
Judgment reversed and the cause remanded for further
proceedingsin accordance with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

dissents.

FIFTH AVENUE COACH COMPANY v. CITY OF
NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.

No. 159.

Argued April 27, 28, 1911.-Decided May 29, 1911.

The courts of a State are competent to construe the laws of the State
and to determine what powers a corporation derives thereunder, and
the use to which such corporation may employ its necessary property; and so held as to uses to which stages may be put by a transportation company.
Whatever the general rights as to corporate property may be, a State,
in granting a charter, may define and limit the use of property necessary to the exercise of the granted powers.
The rights of one to do that which if done by all would work public
harm and injury are not greater because others refrain from exercising such rights.
Classification based on reasonable distinctions is not an unconstitutional denial of equal protection of the laws; and so held that an

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

221 U. S.

ordinance of the city of New York prohibiting advertising vehicles
in a certain street is not unconstitutional as denying equal protection to a transportation company operating stages on such street
either because signs of the owners may be displayed on business
wagons, or because another transportation company may display
advertising signs on its structure. There is a purpose to be achieved,
as well as a distinction, which justifies the classification.
This court may take judicial notice of the density of traffic on a well
known thoroughfare.
Where rights exist to one they exist to all of the class to which
that one belongs.
The charter of this transportation company held not to contain any
provisions giving it such contract right to use its vehicles for advertising purposes as rendered a subsequent ordinance prohibiting such
use unconstitutional under the contract clause of the Constitution.
A contract with a corporation is subject to the limitations of the charter rights of the corporation and is not impaired within the meaning of the contract clause of the Constitution by subsequent legislation that does not extend such limitations.
194 N. Y., 19, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an ordinance of

the city of New York prohibiting the display of advertisements under certain conditions, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William H. Page, with whom Mr. Gilbert H. Crawford was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Plaintiff in error possesses a vested property right to
rent space for the display of advertisements upon its
stages, which is incidental to the ownership of the stages.
The doctrine of ultra vires has no application.
The renting of space to be used for the display of advertisements is a property right belonging to the plaintiff
in error, incidental to its ownership of the Fifth Avenue
stages. Foster v. London &c. Ry. Co. (Ct. of App.), L. R.
(1895) 1 Q. B. D. 711, 720; Nantasket Beach Steamboat
Co. v. Shea, 182 Massachusetts, 147; Louisiana v. Warehouse Co., 109 Louisiana, 64; Benton v. City of Elizabeth,
61 N. J. L. 411; Coal Creek Co. v. Tenn. &c. Co., 106
Tennessee, 651; French v. Quincy, 3 Allen, 9; see also

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

469

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Spaulding v. City of Lowell, 23 Pick. 71; Worden v. City of
New Bedford, 131 Massachusetts, 23; People v. City of
Platteville,71 Wisconsin, 139; Forrestv. Manchester Ry. Co.,
30 Beav. 40; Brown v. Winnisimmet Co., 11 Allen, 326.
All the corporations, whose rights were considered in the
cases cited, were alike subject to the rule that corporations have no powers except those expressly granted by
the legislature, and in every case the particular power sustained was not given expressly by charter, but was upheld
as an implied incidental or appurtenant property right.
Jacksonville Railway & Navigation Co. v. Hooper, 160
U. S. 514, 525; N. Y. M. & N. Trans. Co. v. Shea, 30
App. Div. (N. Y.) 266; Union Pac. Ry. Co. v. Chicago,
R. I. & P. R. R. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 309; aff'd 163 U. S.
564; Interborough Co. v. New York, 47 Misc. 221; S. C.,
53 Misc. 126. City v. Interborough R. T. Co. and N. Y.
City Interborough R. Co., 125 App. Div. (N. Y.) 437;
S. C., 194 N. Y. 528, upheld the right of the Interborough
Rapid Transit Company to use ducts forming part of the
construction of the subway, for the transmission of electric current sold by it to a surface railway company.
The right asserted by the plaintiff in error is an incidental right of property, which is independent of the question of corporate powers or franchises. Foster v. London
&c. Railway Co., supra.
When an intrinsically harmless, natural and ordinary
use of property is forbidden by law, the owner is deprived
of his property within the meaning of the constitutional
provision. People v. Green, 85 App. Div. 400, 406. An
obvious, ordinary use of property, as is the renting it to
advertisers, is within the protection of the constitutional
provision. People v. Otis, 90 N. Y. 48. See also Pumpelly
v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166, 179; Muhlker v. Harlem
R. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544; Myer v. Adams, 63 App. Div.
(N. Y.) 540, 544; Re Grade Commissioners, 6 App. Div.
327, 334; Belleville v. Turnpike Co., 234 Illinois, 428, 434.

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

221 U. S.

The doctrine of ultra vires has no application. Railroad
Co. v. Ellerman, 105 U. S. 166, 173. Defendant in error
has no right to raise the question.
The ordinance as construed by the Court of Appeals
is an unlawful exercise of an assumed police power and
operates to deprive the plaintiff in error of its property
without due process of law in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment.
A common carrier of passengers cannot be lawfully deprived of the incidental right to increase its income by
leasing space on the exterior of screens, forming a necessary structural part of its stages, for the exhibition of
advertisements which in no way affect the welfare, comfort, safety, health, convenience or morals of passengers
or of the public.
The reasonableness of the ordinance is to be determined
from the evidence contained in the record and from the
findings based thereon which sustain unqualifiedly the
contention of the plaintiff in error. Egan v. Hart, 165
U. S. 188, 189; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255, 278;
Bement v. Nat. Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 71, 83; WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 97.
The unreasonable character of the ordinance appears
'further from the scope of its provisions, as construed by
the Court of Appeals.
This court is not bound by the determination of the
state courts either as to the lawfulness of the ordinance or
as to its effect upon the rights of the plaintiff in error.
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356, 366; Dobbins v. Los
Angeles, 195 U. S. 223.
A municipal ordinance which prohibits the exercise of a
property right which is not a nuisance, and which in no
way affects the well-being, health, physical comfort, convenience, safety or morals of the community is, to the extent of such prohibition, unlawful under the Fourteenth
Amendment.

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

471

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

As to limits upon the police power precluding the lawfulness of the ordinance, see Yick Wo Case, supra; Lawton
v. Steele, 152 U. S. 133, 136, 138; in this case the court
refers to various cases in which so-called police regulations
had been declared illegal. Rockwell v. Nearing, 35 N. Y.
302; Dobbins v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 223; Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661.
If there be any presumption it is to the contrary. The
omnipresence of advertisements upon private property
adjacent to highways along the principal thoroughfares
of our large cities and trunk lines of railroads in or adjacent to every great city and even small ones bears forceful testimony to this effect. See Yates v. Milwaukee, 10
Wall. 497.
When an intrinsically harmless use of private property
is prohibited by law, it must appear clearly that the prohibition accomplishes some purpose which is of benefit to
the community. Fisher Co. v. Woods, 187 N. Y. 90;
Matter of Jacobs, 98 N. Y. 98; People v. Gillson, 109 N. Y.
389; People v. Armstrong, 73 Michigan, 288; People v.
Rochester, 44 Hun, 166.
The display of advertisements made by the advertising
company under contract with the plaintiff, or the lease of
space by the latter to the former, is not a nuisance and in
no way injures or affects the welfare, health, physical
comfort, safety, convenience or morals of passengers, or of
the public.
This section has no application to the advertisements in
question in this case. Wood on Nuisances, 3d ed., § 801,
p. 1177.
The advertisements in question cannot be judicially
condemned on oesthetic grounds. Bleistein v. Donaldson
Lithographing Co., 188 U. S. 239, 251; Commonwealth v.
Boston Advertising Co., 188 Massachusetts, 348, 352
(1905); and see also Passaic v. Paterson Advertising Co.,
72 N. J. L. 285; Bryan v. City of Chester, 212 Pa. 259,

OCTOBER TERM, 1010.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

221 U. S.

262. The ordinance cannot be sustained as a proper exercise of the police power as a regulation covering the use of
the streets.
The ordinance creates a favored sub-class of vehicles
which are permitted to display advertisements, it being
self-evident that the term "business notices" includes
"advertisements." Gulf &c. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150,
165.
The ordinance clearly discriminates between two classes
of passenger carriers, both having chartered rights to
use the streets. Soon . Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.
709.
The ordinance impairs the obligation of the contract
between the plaintiff in error and the Railway Advertising Company. Delmas v. U. S. Insurance Co., 14 Wall.
661, 668; N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. Co. v. Interstate Com.
Comm., 200 U. S. 361, 401; Chicago v. Sheldon, 9 Wall.
50, 55.
The ordinance also operates to impair the obligation of
the contract between the State of New York and the plaintiff.
This court has jurisdiction and will determine for itself
the question of whether or not such a contract exists
and whether the ordinance complained of impairs its
obligation. Mobile & Ohio R. R. v. Tennessee, 153 U. S.
486, 493; Society &c. v. Town of Pawlet, 4 Pet. 480,
502.
Mr. Terence Farley, with whom Mr. Theodore Connoly
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
A common carrier has no common-law right to use the
public highways for advertising, not its own, but somebody's else business. Such purposes are absolutely and
entirely foreign to the objects of its incorporation. Armstrong v. Murphy, 65 App. Div. 123; Schwab v. Grant, 126
N. Y. 473, 481, 482; Palmer v. Larchmont Electric Co.,

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK
221 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

158 N. Y. 231; Osborne v. Auburn Telephone Co., 189 N. Y.
393.
The highway may only be used for municipal or street
purposes. The display of advertisements upon the stages
of the plaintiff in error is neither a municipal nor a street
purpose. Hatfield v. Straus, 189 N. Y. 208; Callanan v.
Gilman, 107 N. Y. 360; Hoey v. Gilroy, 129 N. Y. 132;
Jorgensen v. Squires, 144 N. Y. 280. See also Ackerman
v. True, 175 N. Y. 353.
It is doubtful whether the city itself could sanction these
displays. Belt v. St. Louis, 161 Missouri, 371.
Grants of franchises to public corporations are to be
strictly construed. Nothing passes by intendment, and
the only powers vested in them are those which are either
expressly conferred or are necessarily implied for the purpose of enabling them to transact their public duties.
Coosaw Min. Co. v. South Carolina, 144 U. S. 550; Water
Co. v. Knoxville, 200 U. S. 22; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S.
400.
A corporation has no powers whatever excepting those
given by its charter or the law under which it is incorporated, either directly or as incidental to its purposes and
existence. Plank Road Co. v. Douglass, 9 N. Y. 444;
Ren. & Sar. Ry. v. Davis, 43 N. Y. 137; N. Y. & H. R. R.
Co. v. Kip, 46 N. Y. 546; Mohawk Bridge Co. v. Utica
&c. Co., 6 Paige, 554; Thomas v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S.
71, 82.
The private business of advertising tobacco, cigarettes,
soap and toilet articles, is not incidental to the exercise of
a public franchise to operate stage coaches for hire. It is
not even an "incidental power." First M. E. Church v.
Dixon, 178 Illinois, 260.
An "incidental power" is one which is directly and immediately appropriate to the execution of the specific
power granted, and not one which has only a slight or
remote relation to it. Hood v. New York & N. H. R. Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

221 U. S.

22 Connecticut, 1, 16; People ex rel. Peabody v. Chicago
Gas Trust Co., 130 Illinois, 268, 283; 8 L. R. A. 497; Burke
v. Mead, 159 Indiana, 252; 64 N. E. Rep. 880, 883; State
ex rel. Jackson v. Newman, 51 La. Ann. 833; 25 So. :Rep.
408; FranklinCo. v. Lewiston Say. Bank, 68 Maine, 43, 45;
28 Am. Rep. 9.
An incidental power exists only for the purpose of enabling a corporation to carry out the powers expressly
granted to it. Moloney v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 175
Illinois, 125; Alton Mfg. Co. v. Garrett Biblical Institute,
243 Illinois, 298; Marshalltown Stone Co. v. Des Moines
Brick Co., 126 N. W. Rep. 190; State v. Morgan's L. & T.
R. & S. S. Co., 106 Louisiana, 513.
The exercise of a power which might be beneficial to the
principal business is not necessarily incidental to it.
Gause v. Commonwealth Trust Co., 196 N. Y. 134, 144;
Healy v. Illinois C. R. Co., 233 Illinois, 378; Burke v.
Mead, 159 Indiana, 252; Nicollet Bank v. Frisk-Turner
Co., 71 Minnesota, 413; Victor v. Louise Cotton Mills, 148
N. Car. 107; Curtis v. Leavitt, 15 N. Y. 9, 165; Peabody v.
Chicago Gas Trust Co., 130 Illinois, 268; Chewacla LimeWorks v. Dismukes, 87 Alabama, 344; Moloney v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 175 Illinois, 125; Hood v. N. Y. &
N. H. R. Co., 22 Connecticut, 502; Mutual Say. Bank v.
Meridan Agri. Co., 24 Connecticut, 159; Naugatuck R. Co.
v. Waterbury Button Co., 24 Connecticut, 468; Elmore v.
Naugatuck R. Co., 23 Connecticut, 457; Penna. & Del.
Nay. Co. v. Dandridge, 8 Gill & J. (Md.) 248; Orr v. Lacey,
2 Doug. (Mich.) 230; Hoagland v. Hannibal & St. Jo. R.
Co., 39 Missouri, 451; Root v. Godard, 3 McLean (U. S. C.
C.), 102; Jacksonville &c. Ry. Co. v. Hooper, 160 U. S.
514. See also the discussions of this subject in 2 Beach,
Private Corpns., § 406 (c); 2 Cook, Corporations, 6th ed.,
§ 681; 1 Elliott on Railroads, 2d ed., § 379; Field, Private
Corporations, §§ 53, 54; 4 Thompson, Corporations, § 5638;
1 Wood on Railroads (Minor's ed.), § 170; Davis v. Old

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

475

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Colony R. R. Co., 131 Massachusetts, 258, 272; Pears v.
Manhattan R. R. Co., N. Y. L. J., Jan. 3, 1890; Pittsburg
Traction Co. v. Seidell, 6 Pa. Dist. (C. P.) 414; National
Car Adv. Co. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 110 Virginia, 413.
The attempted exercise of powers which are not incidental to those which are either expressly granted or
necessarily implied, is ultra vires. Pearce v. Madison &c.
R. R. Co., 21 How. (U. S.) 441; Wiswall v. Plank Road
Co., 56 N. Car. 183; Downing v. Mt. Wash. Road Co., 40
N. H. 230; Penna. Co. v. Dandridge, 8 Gill & J. (Md.) 248.
See also Abbott v. Baltimore Packet Co., 1 Md. Ch. Dec.
542; N. 0., Florida & H. S. Co. v. Ocean Dry Dock Co.,
28 La. Ann. 173.
The advertisements in question constitute a violation
of the city ordinances. Dry Dock, E. B. & B. R. R. Co. v.
The Mayor &c., 47 Hun, 221.
The automobile stages of the plaintiff in error are vehicles of some description. They were attempted to be
employed in a dual capacity, as stage coaches for the
transportation of passengers; and as advertising wagons.
Luce v. Hassam, 76 Vermont, 450.
The ordinance in question is a valid exercise of the
legislative power of the city. The subject-matter of the
legislation is within the powers of the corporation adopting it; it is in proper form; and it is perfectly reasonable.
Ringelstein v. Chicago, 128 Ill. App. 483; McQuillan on
Municipal Ordinances, § 186; Wettengel v. City of Denver, 20 Colorado, 552; Commonwealth v. McCafferty, 145
Massachusetts, 384; Commonwealth v. Plaisted, 148 Massachusetts, 375; Commonwealth v. Ellis, 158 Massachusetts,
555; Philadelphiav. Brabender, 201 Pa. St. 574; Rochester
v. West, 164 N. Y. 510.
The validity of a statute or ordinance is not to be determined from its effect in a particular case, but from its
general purpose and its efficiency to effect that end.
Gunning System v. City of Buffalo, 75 App. Div. 31;

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

Chicago v. Gunning System, 214 Illinois, 628; S. C., 2 Am.
& Eng. Ann. Cases, 897.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Plaintiff in error, which was also plaintiff in the court
below, and we shall so refer to it, brought suit against the
city in the Supreme Court of the County of New York.
It alleged the following: It is a corporation duly formed
and organized under the laws of the State of New York,
and engaged in the operation of automobile stages upon
routes extending along Fifth Avenue and other streets in
the city of New York under and in pursuance of certain
acts of the legislature of the State, having acquired, under
various acts, all the property rights and franchises of the
Fifth Avenue Transportation Company, Limited.
The city is a municipal corporation, organized under the
laws of the State, and exercises its powers through officers
and departments.
The plaintiff has operated stages upon its routes, and
has used the interior of them for the display of advertising
signs or matter, for many years. In May, 1905, with the
complete substitution of automobile stages for horse
stages, which was effected in July, 1907, it began to utilize
and now utilizes, the exterior of its stages for such purposes, which it is able to do by reason of the necessary
difference in form of the new vehicle and in the consequent increase of space adapted to use in the display of
advertising matter, and from such use it is enabled to
secure a substantial income from portions of its property
not susceptible of being used otherwise for the purpose of
its business.
The city, through its various officials, has interfered
with such advertising, and intends to interfere with the
operations of plaintiff's stages; and to prevent it from
maintaining advertising signs upon the exterior thereof,

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which will materially impair plaintiff's business, reduce
its income, interfere with the exercise of its rights and
franchises under the laws of the State, and "infringe its
constitutional right to freedom in the use of its property."
The damage to plaintiff will be irreparable, and no adequate compensation therefor can be obtained at law.
A permanent injunction was prayed.
The city answered, denying some allegations and admitting others, and set out a number of ordinances which
precede that in controversy and set out the latter as follows:
"No advertising trucks, vans or wagons shall be allowed
in the streets of the Borough of Manhattan, under a
penalty of ten dollars for each offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the putting of business notices
upon ordinary business wagons, so long as such wagons
are engaged in the usual business or regular work of the
owner, and not used merely or mainly for advertising."
And it alleged that it was its duty to prevent "the display of the advertisements on the outside of the stages
operated by complainant on Fifth Avenue."
After hearing, a judgment was entered dismissing the
complaint. It was affirmed successively by the Appellate
Division and by the Court of Appeals.
The trial court found that plaintiff had succeeded to all
of the "rights, privileges, franchises and properties" of
the Fifth Avenue Transportation Company, having the
right to use automobile power instead of horses. The
franchises of the transportation company were to carry
passengers and property for hire; to establish, maintain and
operate stage routes for public use in the conveyance of
persons and property and to receive compensation therefor. It had other franchises not material to mention.
The court also found the following facts:
"The automobile omnibuses now operated over the
routes of the plaintiff herein have two decks, on the lower
of which are longitudinal seats for sixteen passengers, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

on the upper deck there are transverse seats for eighteen
passengers. There is a stairway leading from the rear
platform of the lower deck to the upper deck. Said stairway has a screen extending from the top to the bottom.
"The space used for advertising purposes on the vehicles
of the plaintiff herein, is leased to the Railway Advertising Company, under an agreement dated May 11, 1907,
from which the plaintiff herein receives the sum of $10,000
per annum, plus the sum of $200 per 'bus for exterior advertising. There was an agreement dated May 15, 1905,
relating to interior advertising."
Advertising signs of various colors are upon the stairs
of the elevated railways, in places on the elevated structures in the city of New York, and on the walls of the underground stations of the subway railroad company.
The advertising signs on plaintiff's coaches have no
relation to their operation or to the physical comfort,
convenience or health of the passengers or the public, and
are merely an incident to the use of the stages in the operation of the franchise belonging to it for the transportation
of passengers.
The findings of fact are very descriptive as to the size
and character of the signs used. There are two, 13 feet
by 2 feet 7 inches; another, 2 by 6'2 feet; another, 4 by
2 feet; another, 8 feet by 20 inches; another, 2 feet 4
inches square; and others, 2 feet in length. And the signs
or the pictures painted on them were in pink, blue, black,
bright yellow, drab and red.
It was concluded from the facts found that the advertisements were not a nuisance; could not be judicially
condemned on oesthetic grounds; that the health, safety
or comfort of passengers and the public are not injured
by them; that plaintiff failed to prove that their display
was a necessary incident to the operation of the stages;
that by its franchise it did not acquire the right to display advertisements for hire, and that such display was

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ultra vires, being neither incidental to nor implied by the
powers conferred by plaintiff's charter or by law. It was
further concluded that the streets of New York could only
be used for street purposes and that the display of advertising signs by plaintiff was not a street use.
The Appellate Division affirmed the judgment. The
court said: "The complaint was properly dismissed and
the judgment would be affirmed without opinion were it
not for the fact that we do not concur in the reasons assigned by the learned justice at Special Term for making
this disposition of the case. From the facts proved, and
the findings made, a case is not presented to a court of
equity which calls for the exercise of its powers." The
court further expressed the view that plaintiff had a right
under its charter to operate its stages, but whether it could
or not, as an incident to such right, display signs or advertisements must be determined when the question arose
and not, as in the pending case, upon a supposition which
had for its foundation a mere threat which might never
be carried into effect. And the court intimated that it
was the concern of the State and not of the city if plaintiff was violating its charter; and further intimated that
the advertisements did not violate the ordinance.
The Court of Appeals, however, agreed with the trial
court. It reviewed the laws which constituted the charter
powers of the Fifth Avenue Transportation Company and
the laws by which plaintiff succeeded to the transportation
company and its powers, and decided that the franchise of
plaintiff "does not expressly include the right to use the
public streets mentioned therein for advertising purposes
or to carry or maintain exterior advertisements on its
stages and the carrying of such advertisements is not
a necessary or essential incident to its express franchise
rights. Such exterior advertising is in no way related to
the carrying of passeligers for hire." The court also decided that the city had the power to pass the ordinance

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

which is in question and that plaintiff offended against its
provisions, and, after discussing at some length the powers
of the city, among other things, said:
"Fifth Avenue is an important and much-used street.
At certain times of the day slow-moving trucks are barred
therefrom on account of the congestion in such street.
The plaintiff's contract with the advertising company
allows the advertisements on its stages to become the
conspicuous part of their exterior, and the business of
advertising for the purpose of revenue is of such value to
the plaintiff that the gross income therefrom exceeds six
per cent upon its entire capital stock."
"It appears that the right to display garish advertisements in conspicuous places has become a source of large
revenue. If the plaintiff can cover the whole or a large
part of the exterior of its stages with advertisements
for hire, delivery wagons engaged by the owners in their
usual business or regular work can rightfully be covered
with similar advertisements. Cars and vehicles of many
descriptions, although not engaged exclusively in advertising, and thus not incumbering the street exclusively for
advertising purposes, may be used for a similar purpose.
The extent and detail of such advertisements when left
wholly within the control of those contracting therefor
would make such stages, wagons or cars a parade or show
for the display of advertisements which would clearly tend
to produce congestion upon the streets upon which they
were driven or propelled. The exaggerated and gaudy
display of advertisements by the plaintiff is for the express purpose of attracting and claiming the attention of
the people upon the streets through which the stages are
propelled."
The court cited Commonwealth v. McCafferty, 145
Massachusetts, 384, in which an ordinance was sustained
which prohibited the placing or carrying on sidewalks,

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

481

Opinion of the Court.

show-boards, placards or signs for the purpose of there
displaying the same. It was said in this case that the
tendency and effect of such signs might be to collect
crowds and thus interfere with the use of the sidewalks
by the public and lead to disorder, and that such a pro-

vision applicable to the crowded streets of a populous city
was not unreasonable. The Court of Appeals, therefore,
concluded that the ordinance of the city of New York was
"not wholly arbitrary and unreasonable," and that the
plaintiff "had failed to show that the maintenance of such
exterior advertisements is within its express franchise
rights or that such ordinance prohibiting their maintenance on its stages is not a proper exercise of the authority
vested in the city to regulate the business conducted in
the streets thereof, and the trial court was, therefore,
right in dismissing the plaintiff's complaint."
To this conclusion complainant urges (1) it has a property right to rent space on its stages for advertisements,
and the doctrine of ultra vires has no application; (2) the
ordinance, as construed by the Court of Appeals, deprives
plaintiff in error of its property without due process of
law, in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States; (3) denies to it the
equal protection of the laws; (4) impairs the obligation of
the contract between plaintiff and the Railway Advertising Company, and that between the State of New York
and plaintiff.
To sustain the first proposition plaintiff cites a number
of cases which are not in point. It may be that in other
jurisdictions it has been decided, construing the charters

granted, that under the local laws particular uses of property may be merely incident to its ownership, and not
ultra vires. A sufficient answer to the cases is that the law
is held to be different in New York.
It is surely competent for the courts of New York to
construe the laws of the State and decide what powers a
VoL. ccxxi-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

corporation derives under them, or to what uses it may
employ its property necessary for the exercise of those
powers. And the stages used on the streets of the city
transporting passengers is the very exercise of the franchise granted to plaintiff, and is not like the instances of
the cited cases where property was not intimately used in
the exercise of charter rights. The right of property contended for in its full breadth would make property intended for corporate use as absolute as property not so
committed or not limited by charter conditions. And
this, we think, is enough for the decision of the case. No
matter what may be the general rights of corporate property, it cannot be contended that a State granting a charter may not strictly define and limit the uses of the property necessary to the exercise of the powers granted. And
this is what the Court of Appeals has decided the laws of
New York have done, and that the Fifth Avenue Transportation Company was, and the plaintiff, as the successor
of its rights, is subject to the limitations imposed by those
laws. When plaintiff went beyond the limitations, it became subject to the ordinance as construed by the Court
of Appeals. "General advertising for hire," the court
said, "is by the ordinance prohibited, whether carried on
wagons wholly used for advertising or in connection with
the ordinary or usual business in which wagons are engaged." Plaintiff's stages are therefore brought under
even a broader principle than that of its charter. The
same rule is applied to that as to other wagons and within
the exercise of the police power illustrated in Commonwealth v. McCafferty, supra. We concur with the Court
of Appeals, for we cannot say that it was an arbitrary
exercise of such power. The density of the traffic on
Fifth Avenue we might take judicial notice of, but it is
represented to us as a fact by the Court of Appeals, and
we find from the opinion of the trial court and the exhibits
in the record that "the signs advertised in various glaring

FIFTH AVE. COACH CO. v. NEW YORK.
221 U. S.

483

Opinion of the Court.

colors and appropriate legends divers articles," for example, Duke's Mixture Smoking Tobacco, Bull Durham
Smoking Tobacco, and Helmar Turkish Cigarettes. There
were painted figures of animals, men in oriental costume,
busts of men and women, all made conspicuous by contrasted coloring. Describing the signs, the court said:
"The colors used-green, dark blue, white, light blue,
yellow, drab, and various brilliant shades of red-are contrasted so as to attract attention and are not blended so
as to produce a harmonious or artistic effect, and the resulting painting constitutes a disfigurement rather than an
ornament." If plaintiff be right, however the advertisements may be displayed is immaterial. There can be no
limitation of rights by degrees of the grotesque. If such
rights exist in plaintiff they exist in all wagon owners, and
there might be such a fantastic panorama on the streets of
New York that objection to it could not be said to have
prompting only in an exaggerated esthetic sense. That
rights may not be pushed to such extremes does not help
plaintiff. Its rights are not greater because others may
not exercise theirs.
This discussion of plaintiff's first contention answers in
effect its other contentions. Necessarily, if plaintiff had
no right under its charter to use its stages for advertising
purposes, or if the ordinance of the city was a proper
exercise of the police power, plaintiff was not deprived of
its property without due process of law, which is the basis
of its second contention.
We pass, therefore, to the third and fourth contentions.
The third contention is that the ordinance denies plaintiff
the equal protection of the laws, and to support the contention it is urged that "no advertising wagons are allowed in the streets, but 'ordinary business wagons' when
'engaged in the usual business or work of the owner, and
not used merely or mainly for advertising,' are permitted
to exhibit 'business notices.' " It is argued that the ordi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1910.
Opinion of the Court.

221 U. S.

nance "thus creates a favored sub-class of vehicles which
are permitted to display advertisements." In view of the
power of the State and the city acting with the authority
of the State, to classify the objects of legislation, we will
not discuss the contention. The distinction between business wagons and those used for advertising purposes has a
proper relation to the purpose of the ordinance and is not
an illegal discrimination. The same comment may be
made as to the charge that the ordinance discriminatesbetween two classes of passenger carriers having charter
rights to use the streets. As an instance of this charge
plaintiff adduces the findings of the trial court that advertising is allowed on the stairs of the elevated railways
and on elevated structures. This difference, too, is within
the power of classification which the city possesses.
The fourth and last contention of plaintiff is that the
ordinance impairs the obligations of the contract between
plaintiff and the Railway Advertising Company and the
contract between it and the State of New York.
This contention was made in the trial court, as follows:
"Any law or ordinance which prevents the Fifth Avenue
Coach Company, the plaintiff herein, from displaying
advertisements on the exterior of its vehicles, will impair
the obligation of plaintiff's contract with the State."
It is doubtful if the point was properly raised in the
courts below, but granting that it was, there are obvious
answers to it. At the time of the contract of plaintiff with
the Advertising Company there existed an ordinance
almost identical in terms with that in controversy, and,
besides, the contract was necessarily subject to the charter of plaintiff. And if we should exercise the right to
construe the charter as a contract with the State we should
be unable to discern in it a right in plaintiff to use its
stages for advertising purposes in the manner shown by
this record.
Judgment affirmed.

