JANUARY TERM, 1841.

THz

UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. GORDON
BoYD, AND OTHERS, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.

D.

The United States proceeded on the official bond of Boyd, a Receiver of Public Moneys
for the district of lands subject to sale at Columbus, Mssippi Boyd had been
appointed Receiver for four years, -from the 27th December, 1836 ; and the bond was
for the faithful performace of the duties of his ofice, and was executed on the 15th
of June, 1837. The breaches assigned by the United States were, 1st. That after
the 27th day of December, 1836, Boyd received, in his official capacity, fifty-nine
thousand six hundred and twenty-two dollars, which he failed to pay over to the
United States, as he was bound to do by law. 2d. That Boyd, on the 27th day of
December, 1836, and at divers days between that and tne 30thof September, 1837,
received fifty-nine thousand six hundied and twenty-two dollars, as Receiver, which
sum remained in his hands on the 30th day of September, 1837; and that he failed
to pay the same, pursuant to his instructions from the Secretary of the Treasury,
and the duties.of his office, &
The case of Farrar and Brown v. The United States, 5 Peters, 374, cited and affirmed.
'It
maters not at what time the moneys had been received by the officer, if received
after his appointment. They were: held in trust for the United States, and so continued to~be held at and after the dateof the bond; and the sureties are liable to ihe
-

United States

rhe liability ofa surety is not to extend, by implication, beyond the terms of his contract. This undertaking is to receive a strict interpretation, and not to extend beyond
the fair scope of its terms.
By the revised Cede of Mississippi, 614, any number of breaches may be assigned; and
whena demurrer shall be joined in any action, no defect in .the pleadings shall be
regarded by the Court, unless specialy alleged as causes of demurrer. A case having
come to the Supreme Court, by writ of error from the District of Mississippi, the
modes of proceeding in that state govern the pleadings.
The case having been brought up frcm the Circuit Court of Mississippi, on a writ of
errol', and the judgment of the Circuit Court, on the demurrer, in favour of the
defendant, and against the United States, having been reversed by the Supreme Court,
the case will be in the Circuit Court as if the demurrer had been overruled; And
will be subject to additional pleadings as an amendment 'of the present pleadings,,
according to the rules and practice of the Circuit Court, and on such terms as it may
impose.

IN error to the Circuit Court" of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi.
Gordon D. Boyd was duly appointed -a eceiver of Public
Moneys for the district of lands suliject to sale at Colnmbus, in

188

SUPREME COUXT
[The United States v. Boyd et aL]

the state of Mississippi, for the term of four years from tfie 27th
day of December, 1836. On the 15th of June, 1837, he gave a
bond in the penal sum of two hundred thousand dollars, jointly
and severally with Samuel Rossdale and others, the defendants
in error in the present suit. The condition of the bond was, that,
whereat the President of the United States had, pursuant to law,
appointed him, the said Boyd, receiver as aforesaid, for the term
of four years, from the 27th of December, 1836, that therefore,
4if the said Boyd shall faithfully execute and discharge the duties
of his office, then the above obligation to be void, and of none
effect, otherwise it shall abide and remain in full force and
virtue."
At May term, 1838, a suit was instituted on this bofid, by the
United States, in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Mississippi, against the obligors, being the present defendants in
error, to recover the penalty thereof. The defendants craved
oyer of the bond, and afterwards of the condition, and subsequently, pleaded that the plaintiffs ought not to maintain their
action, because "the said Boyd did, frbm time to time, and at all
times after making of the said bond, and the condition thereof,
well, and truly observe, perform, fulfil, and keep the condition
of said bond, by faithfully execlIting and discharging the duties
of his office, according to the tenor and effect, true intent and
meaning of the said, condition."
At November term, 1839, the United States filed their amended
replication, in which they said that they ought not to be barred
from maintaining their action, because the said Boyd had not
performed the condition of the said bond, and two breaches
thereof were assigned.
1st. That "the said Boyd, after the 27th of December, 1836,
and while he was Receiver, and as such Receiver, received
of the public moneys, large sums, viz., fifty-nine thousand six
hundred and twcpty-two dollars and sixty cents, wh icb said
sum, he then "and there wholly failed, neglected, and refused to
pay over to the said plaintiffs, pursuant to his instruction from
the Secretary of the Treasury, as he was bound to do by law,
and the duty of his said office of Receiver."
2d. That "1the said Boyd, after the 27th of December, 1836,
and on divers days and times, between that day and the 30th of

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

189

[The United States v. Boyd et al.]

September, 1837, while he was Receiver, and as such Receiver,
received divers sums of the public moneys, amounting in the
whole to fifty-nine thousand six hundred and twenty-two dollars
and sixty cents, and that the said sum remained in the hands
of the said Boyd, as Receiver, on the 30th of September, 1837;
and the said Boyd then and there \wholly failed, neglected, and
refused to pay' the same over to the United States, pursuant to
his instructions from the Secretary of the Treasury, as he was
bound to do-by law, and the duty of his office.
To this replication, the defendants demurred, for the following
causes:
1st. The first breach does not state the time at which Boyd, as
Receiver, received the said money after his appointment, whether
before or after the date of the bond.
2d. The first breach does not state that Boyd neglected to pay
over any moneys received by him, as Receiver, after the date
of the bond.
3d. The second breach does not state any time at which Boyd,as Receiver, received the said money.
4th. The second breach does not state that Boyd, as Receiver,
neglected to pay over any moneys received by him, as Receiver,
after the date of the bond.
5th. That the replication is otherwise insufficient.
The United States joined in the demurrer, and the same was
sustained by the Court, and judgment thereupon entered for the
defendants. The United States prosecuted this-writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General for the
United States. Mr. Davis, in behalf of Mr. Cocke, submitted a
printed argument for the defendants.
For the United States, Mr. Gilpin contended, that the breaches
of the conditiQn of the bond, by the principal obligor, are well
and sufficiently set forth in the replication: and that the demurrer
ought not to have been sustained.
Mr. Gilpin, Attorney General, for the United States.
On the 27th of December, 1836, the defendant, Boyd, was appointed a Receiver of Public Moneys, at Columbus, in Mississippi, for four years. On the 15th of June, 1837,and while his

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Boyd et al.]

term of office was unexpired, the bond. on which the present
suit was brought,°was given'by him and theother defendants in
error, in the penal sum. of two hundred thousand dollars, with
the condition that he "1should faithfully discharge the duties of
his office," of Receiver of Public Moneys, and stating the term
to be "tfouryears from the 27th of December, 1836."
\
On the first establishment of the government, in 1789, the
general dutv of "1superintending the collection of the revenue,"
andof " executing such services relating to the sale of the public
land , as might be required by law," (1 Story's Laws, 46,) was
devolved on the Secretary of the Treasury. The earliest general provision, (1 Story's Laws, 42,) regulating, especially, the
payment of moneys on the purchae of public lands, was that
of the .18th of May, 1796, and by that it was provided that the
purchaser was to pay one-half of ther purchase money, within
thirty days, to the Treasurer of the United States directly, or
"Ito a person appointed-by" the President to attend at the place
of sale and receive it ;" the residue was to be paid directly to the
Treasurer. On the 10th of May, 1800, (1 Story's Laws, 783,)
land offices were created at four places, Cincinnatti, Chilicothe,
Marietta, and Steubenville; and it was directed thit a Receiver
of Public Moneys should be appointed at eachof them, by the
President, whose duties were, to receive the purchase money
from purchasers; give receipts therefor; transmit, at designated
periods, accounts of the moneys received, to the Secretary of the
Treasury; and "'within three months transmit to the Treasurer
of the United States, the moneys by them received." By the
same law, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized to
prescribe such further regulations as to the manner of keeping
the books, and the accounts, as he.might think proper. On the
25th of April, 1812, (2 Story's Laws, 123 ,) the general land
office was established, and all the powers and duties of the Secretary of the Treasury, relative to the public lands, were devolved upon the Commissioner; to whom also, all returns from
the land offices were directed to be made, and by whom all
accounts from them were to be iettled. On the 24th of Apri,
1820, (3 Story's Laws, 1774,) the law was passed, requiring the
whole 'purchase money to be paid on the day of sali, to the
Receiver, or to the Treasurer of the United States. On the 3d

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

191

[The United States v. Boyd et al)

of March, 1833, (4 Story's Laws, 2349,) a law was passed
which formcdl a certain portion of the lands in the state of Mississippi, purchased not long before from the Choctaws, into a
land district called the Northeastern District; and the President
was directed to establish a land office at some convenient place
therein, which he might designate; and to appoint a Receiver of
Public Moneys, for that office, who was to give bond according
to law, and who was to perform similar duties, and be in all
respects governed by the laws of the United States, providing
for the sale of the public lands. This office was established at
Columbus, and went into operation on the .1st of May, 1833.
On the 4th of July, 1836, (4 Story's Laws, 2499,) the general
land office was reorganized; and it was provided that the Receivers should make to the Secretary of the Treasury monthly
returns of"the moneys received by them, and should pay over
such money, pursuant to his instructions.
The various instructions that had been from time to time
issued in regard to the various duties of the officers of the land
office, were condensed, in the year 1831, into a circular issued by
the Secretary of the Treasury; which, so far as it relates. to the
payment of public moneys collected by the Receivers, is as follows, (2 Bircliard's Land Documents, 443:) " Whei" the public
money in the hands of a Receiver, at the end of any month,
exceeds the sum of ten thousand dollars, it should be deposited
without delay. But it must not be retained, under any circumstances, in contravention of the provisions of the act of loth
May, 1800, which require that the moneys received by the Receivers, shall be transmitted within three months, to the Treasurer
of the United States, as they will thereby-render themselves and
their sureties liable under their official bonds. It is essential that
the public moneys in the possession of the Receivers, should be
deposited at the -above intervals." These instructions, which
were issued hy the Secretary of the Treasury, through the Commissioner of the General Land Office, have formed, ever since, the
well known guide of Receivers of Public Moneys throughiout
the United States.
It will thus be seen that, for a Receiver of Public Moneys "faith-'
fully to execute and discharge the duties of'his office," he must
pay over "the public money in his hands, exceeding ten thousand

192

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Boyd et al.]

,dollars, once a month," and deposit 1call the public moneys "in
his possession" once in three months. It is not possible that the
duties required for the faithful execution and discharge of an
office can be more exactly defined.
On the 30th of September, 1837, the defendant, Boyd, resigned
his office, having at that time in his hands, not paid over, or deposited, as required by the. above regulation, the sum of fiftynine thousand six hundred and twenty-two dollars and sixty
cents, received during the term designated in the bond. This
balance, though repeatedly called upon, he has ever since refused to pay over, or deposit; and at May term, 1838, a suit was
instituted against him and his sureties, on their olicial bond, to
recover it. The defendants pleaded performance, and alleged
that Boyd had at all times, after the making of the bond, faithfully executed and discharged the duties of his office. The
United States, in an amended replication fild at November term,
1839, replied that he had not performed the condition of his
bond, and assigned as breaches of it:
1. That while he was Receiver, that is, during the term stated
in the bond, and up to the 30th September, 1837,he had received
this amount of public money, and had then and there refused to
pay it over to the United States.
2. That between the time of his appointment and the 30th of
September, he had received this amount of public Money; and
that it remained in his hands on the 30th of September, and that
he had then and- there refused to pay it over to the United
States.
To this replication the defendants have demurred, substantially, but on a single ground. It is, that it doe's not appear that the
public money, which he has not paid over, was received by him
after the date of the bond; and it is alleged, that if the money in
question was collected by him before that period, the sureties
are not answierable for it; even though it was collected during
the term for which the bond prescribed his official duties; and
though it was "in his hands," and remained "in his possession"
up to the 30th of September, when he retired from office.
It will scarcely be denied that, so far as the Receiver himself
was concerned, it -was his duty to pay over and deppsit this
money, at whatever time it was received, as completely after the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

193

[The United States v. Boyd et sl]

15th of, June as it was before. It is his duty, from the nature
of his office, which requires him to pay over and deposit all
moneys, whenever received, during his term. It is his duty,
from the express words of the law, and the regulations of the
Treasury Department; they make no distinction in regard to the
money received; all is to be paid over; if it was so received, as
to have made it a breach of dpty not to pay it over before the
15th of June, this does not make it less so, to continue to withhold it after that time. It is too plain for argument, that Boyd
did not faithfirlly perform his duty, if he neglected to pay over
these moneys, after the 15th of June, whenever they first came
there.
If then this was a duty of the principal;
b neglect of it was
a breach of the condition of the bond on his part; is there any
thing which exempts the sureties from liability on account of it?
What are the sireties bound for? They are bound to answer
for their principal performing every duty whatever, which belonged to his office, at the time they executed the bond. This
was his chief and well-known duty. They knew he had been in
office for five months; they knew he must have received public
moneys; they knew that the bond they gave was dated in the
middle of a quarter; they knew therefore that the public moneys,
thus received, must be remaining in his hands undeposited. It
was, therefore, a duty which, when they signed the bond, they
knew he had to. perform. They could ascertain the amount of
their liability at that time. They were not in any way taken by
surprise. They executed the bond with a full knowledge that
their principal was bound to pay over and deposit the moneys
then in his hands. It is true that a surety may not be bound
always to see new duties performed, which are imposed on their
principal after the date of the bond; but these are not 'of that.
character. Let us suppose that this bond, executed on the 15th
of June, had contained, in terms, this condition: "that the said
Boyd shall faithfully peirform his duty as a Receiver, 1y paying
over and depositing all public money now in his hands;" will it
be contended that the sureties would not then have been answerable ? And is not thi.s the case, where such a condition is contained in substance, when there is a condition that he shall
perform every duty, and this is a well-known and prescribed
VOL. XV.-R
25

194

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Boyd et al.]

duty? The designation, of a general duty, necessarily embraces
'the particular duty. It seems clear then, that to pay over the
moneys remaining in his hands when the bond was signed, was
a duty-of the principal, and one which the sureties knew he was
bound to perf6rm. They are therefore answerable for a breach
of it.
But it may be said that the duty was one which should have
been performed before the, bond was exetcuted; that the money
received before the 15th of June, should 'have been paid over
before that day. To that it may be answered, in the first place,
that such is not necessarily the fact. It does not by any means
follow that there was a default, innot paying over, even though
the money had been received before the date of the bond. If the
sum in question was received in the last preceding month, there
was nothing in the law which required it to be paid over before
the-date of the bond; and the demurrer admits the fact to be so,
by-objecting only to the want of certainty as to the receipt of the
money at the day of the date qf the bond. Wd have a right,
under this demurrer, to assume that this money was all received
within thirty days preceding the date of the bond; we can have
no knowledge that such was not actually the fact; if it was so,
the duty of the Receiver was to pay it over'ai.er the date of the
bond, though it was received before. Or, suppose that a Receiver
should collect nine thousand dollars before the date of the bond,
and one thousand dollars after; the law requires him to deposit
only when he has ten thousand dollars; is not the surety liable,
if, -when the period of deposit arrives, after the date of the bond,
he fails to make it?
BLt, in the second place, if we admit that the money was received before the date of the bond, and, that it ought to have
been then paid over, does that make it lass a duty to pay it over
afterwards? The real and great default is in the permanent
Tefusal to pay; a neglect to account, a !Iailure to malie report, a
refusal to ddposit the mone at a prescribed day, may each be
great improprieties and violations of oifcial duty; but it is the
final neglect to pay over the money which constitutes the great
breach: and this does not become less Ft breach because there
have been other and previous neglects.
But, in the third place, If we admit that the money was re-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

195

[The United States v. Boyd et al.]

ceived before the date of the bond, and ought to have been paid
over before the date, the terms of the bond expressly provide
for a default in this payment. Whether the proper deposit had
been made was unknown to the public officers when the bond
was taken; they therefore required that it should embrace the
duties of Boyd during his whole term-that is from the 23d of
December for four years. Such are the words of the bondsuch are its voluntary obligations on the part of the sureties.
There is nothing, as I have said, in the assignment of these
breaches, which conflicts with the fact, that the money was collected within a period that did not require its payment to be
made to the United States before the date of the bond; but if
there were-if it is admitted that the money was all received on
the 1st of January, 1837, is not that within the term of four
years from the 23d of December, 1836; during all of which,
previous to the date of the bond as well as subsequent, these
sureties stipulate the Receiver's dulies shall be faithfully performed? That a bond, voluntarily entered into, to guarantee
the performance of All duties from a day expressly stipulated in
the bond, though anterior to its date, to another day also stipulated-if the principal so long remains in office-is a legal and
binding instrument, cannot be denied. And such was the case
here, and such is the condition that is broken ; if we take the
facts of the case to be more favourable to the sureties than necessarily results from the assignment of breaches to which they
demur.
If then it be alleged, that this payment ought to have been
made before the dat6 of the bond, we say; 1st. That sudh is not
necessarily the fact. The money may have been received within
a month of that date. 2d. That if it ought, it is not less an obligation on the sureties to see it subsequently paid. 3d. That the
sureties, by the terms of the bond, stipulated to meet such a
contingency.
Nor can the sureties relieve themselves by the allegation that
there was a neglect on the part of the obligees. To say nothing
of thd well recognised principle that the rights of the public
cannot be impalied by the neglect of its officers to require the
proper settlements, or to institute suits against the principal,
(The United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheaton, 720. The United

-

196

SUPREME COURT.
£Thi United stat s v. Boyd et aL]

States v. Vanzant, 11 Wheaton, 184. The United States v.
Nicholl, 12 Wheaton, 509 ;) yet, as the case presents itself by
this demurrer, it is quite evident, that there was no neglect.whatever; that, at the time the bond was signed, the money may
have been received, and yet the period to account for it or to deposit had not arrived. It is, indeed, probable that the state of
his account could not have been known. He was appointed in
Washington, on the 27th of December; he could scarcely have
commenced his official duties in Mississippi before the middle
of January; his first quarterly account was to be made up to
the 1st of April, and necessarily requires some time after that
daie for its transmission with the vouchers; the bond, sent from
Washington to Mississippi, was executed there in June: It may
well be doubted, therefore,'even if these' moneyt were received
before the 1st of April, whether this default could have been
known before the bond was sent for execution. But it is far
more .probable that these moneys were received after the first
of April; if so, there had been no account rendered of the receipts; none had been required bylaw; the sureties knew there
could have been none; of course no neglect, to their prejudice,
is chargeable against the United States, or their officers.
If these views are correct, the following position is established;
that where a Receiver is bound by his bond to deposit monieys
in his hands, received during a specified official term, it is a
breach of that bond, if he neglects to deposit what was received
&ting the time prescribed, but previous to its date; and this is
especially the case, if the bond is dated after the receipt. of the
money but before the time of deposit prescribed by law or regulation; or if the money received actually remains in his hands
at that date.
The judicial decisions of the Courts of common law, as well
as of this Cou~rt, seem to establish the same position. There is
nothing in the condition of this bond that the obligor cannot
perform; and it is a well settled principle that if a condition can
be performed,-without breach of the law, it is good. Mitchell
v. Raynolds, 10 Modern, 134. In the' c'ase of Arlington v.
Meinch, 2 Saunders, 414, it Was held that the recital was the
'part of the bond which governed its construction, and that the
condition must be construed by it. In the case of Newman -v,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

197

[The United States v. Boyd et al.]

Newman, 4 Maule and Sel. 66, it was held that if there were
some things required in the condition which were void, this did
not release the obligors from the performance of the other conditions. The principle is well established that the sureties are
bound by terms of the agreement, as recited in the bond, unless
some parts are illegal, and then their responsibility remains for
the residue. It is their agreement that controls, and this is a
matter for the Court and jury to judge of. In the case of Hassell v. Lbng, 2 Maule and Sel. 363, the obligor was a churchwarden, holding from year to year, commencing in the month
of April: on the 5th December, 1796, he gave his official bond
for the faithful performance of his duties then imposed, or that
might thereafter be imposed; the plaintiffs sought to charge him
for duties after April, 1797, to which the surety objected, and
was sustained by the Court. It was admitted that he was
bound for the whole year, or term during which the bond was
given; the only question was, whether a fair construction of the
words of the bond extended his liability further. In the case of
Nares.v. Roules, 14 East, 510, a collector was appointed under
an act of parliament to perform certain duties, which were to
be designated by another act "to be" subsequently passed, the
title of which was given; it so happened that the act thus referred to was actually passed before the date of the bond, or the
law which required it, and the collector acted under it, and became a defaulter; it was held that his sureties were liable, it
being evident, from the whole tenor of the bond, that it ieferred
to the act previously passed, notwithstanding the prospective
words. In the course of argument, it was said, as a thiing not
doubted, that the commissioners of revenue "might well take
stich a security that the duties that were actually collected should
not be lost." In the case of Curling v. Chalklen, 3 Maule ana
Sel. 508, a collector of poor rates gave bond "that he should
rendor to the churchwardens at, &c., and as often thereafter as
required, a true account of the moneys so collected, &c., aid of
all moneys rated and not received; and pay over the moneysso
by him collected and received and remaining in his hnds."
The collector was appointed in 1806', the-bond was dated 21st
July, 1810 ; and the appointment expired in 1814. Lord Ellenborough said, "I think it is clear, ftom the act of parliament,
R2

SUPREME COURT.
LThe United States v. Boyd et J.]

and the condition of this bond, that it was intended to be given
as a security for the faithful accounting of the principal for the
time prior to that when the bond wis executed, and also for the
whole period of time, after the execution of the bond, during
which-he should continue in the office of collector." In the
case of Peppin v. Cooper, 2 B. and A. 431, the collector of rates
was appointed 22d August, 1812; he gave bond, dated 18th
December, 1812, that he should from time to time, and at all
times thereafter, faithfully collect, &c. Abbot, C. J., said, "I am
of opinion that the condition of the bond is satisfied by the
faithful collection of the rates for one year. The office of collector must be annual. I think, therefore, it was the intention of the
parties that this bond should only be coextensive with the duties
to be performed."
In the case of Dawes v. Edes, 3 Mass. 177, an administrator
g.ve bond to render, &c., of the goods; &c., which have or shall
come to his hands. It was objected by the surety that these
words did not imply a retrospective meaning, but She Court said
that the bond clearly covered what came into the administrator's
hands before as well as after its date. In Roth v.Miller, 15
Ser. and Raw. 107, Judge Duncan said, "Although it may be admitted that bonds are not to be construed strictly against sureties,
yet securities are as much bound, according to the true meaning
of the obligation, as principals." In'4 Yates, 340, and 4 Dallas,
79, Judge Smith has laid down the true principle of construction
to be, that the surety is not liable further than the true intention
and meaning of the parties expressed in the instrument, and the
legal construction of the words used, make him liable; but so
far he is liable, and the legal construction of the words make
him answerable. All who bind themselves in a bond, are equally obligors; and there are many cases in the coustruction of bonds,
where the letter of the condition has been departed from, to,
carry into effect the intention of the parties. And it is a rule in
the construction of all deeds, that they are to be construed most
strictly against those who make them, and most favourably for
those for whose benefit they are.made, as every contract is. In
the case of the Dedham Bank v. Chickering 3 Pickering, 141,
the same principle is sustained. It was held there, that where
the terms of the bond were general, so as to embrace the whole

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

199

[The United Stat v. Boyd et all
period of a person being in office, they could not be restrained
to a single year, although it had been customary to re-elect him
from time to time. Turning to the decisions of this Court, we
find in the case of Sthreshley v. The United States, 4 Cranch, 169,
the Chief Justice laying down the duties of a Collector of Revenue, for which his sureties are answerable, to be first, a liability
to pay over what he has collected ; and, second, to answer for
any neglect in collecting it. While the Court in that case refused
to make the sureties answerable for outstanding duties at the
time his office ceased; they held them to be answerable for the
payment of all that had been collected before that fime. The
case of the United States v. Giles, 9 Cranch, 212 was that of a
marshal, who gave bond, dated the 9th of January, 1801, well
and faithfully to perform the duties of his office, but without any
limitation whatever, as to the period when the obligation of the
sureties was to begin. It appeared that previous to the date of
his bond, the marshal had collected a sum of public money,
which he had not paid over, as directed by the Treasury regulations to do; but it did noi appear that any demand was made
upon him, by the United States,,to pay it over. The sureties
contended that, as the money had been collected before the date
of their bond, which, by its terms, had no relation to any duties
previous to its date, it wxs not a breach of duty for which they
were answerable. Two of the judges agreed with this view of
the case; two others differed with them, and held that the
sureties were liable, because the money though received before
the date of the bond, was then in the marshal's hands, and not
paid over; and the other two appear to have concurred on this
point, though they considered the want of evidefice of any demand.having been made of the marshal, as sufficient to relieve
him from the charge of having converted it.- This case wants
the essential feature of the present one; an expiess stipulation
in the bond, of the time vhen the Receiver's liability is to begin;
yet even there, the payment of the money, independent of the
time of receipt, is regarded as a substantial duty, which, if
violated, involves a breach of the condition. In the case of
Walton v. The United States, 9 Wheat. 651, the Court, in speaking of the official bond of a Receiver, say that it is not an instrument given f6r a particular balance of money; but that it is a

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v.Boyd et al.]

security merely for the officer performing his duties in good
faith. In the case of Miller v. Stewart, 9 Wheat. 680, the defendant was surety in a bond conditioned that Ustick "had faithfully discharged, and should continue to discharge the duties of
his appointment," as a Collector of Infernal Revenue; and it
was sought to charge him with duties arising under a subsequent
appointment. This the Court refused to sanction; and thus laid
down the obligations of a surety: "To the extent, and in the
manner, and under the circumstances pointed out in his obligation, the surety is liable, but no further. He has a right to stand
upon the very terms of his contract." It is evident from the
terms of the bond, that it was dated after the appointment, yet
the surety voluntarily made himself liable during the whole
of that appointment; and, as in the case of Hassell v. Long, the
Court, though they would not extend his liability further, asserted its existence fully to that extent. In the case of the United
States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheat. 720, the defendant was surety
in a bond dated 4th of December. 1813; the principal obligor
was commissioned on the 13th of November; the Court said
"the bond in question was given with express reference to this
commission, and its obligatory force was, of course, confined to
acts done while that cotnmission had a legal continuance." In
the case o;f
the United States v. Nicholl, 12 Wheat. 505, the defendant was surety in a bond, dated 22d of February, 1819, for
the faithful performance by Robert Swartwout, of the duties of
his office of Navy Agent, which commenced on the 30th of November, 1818, and continued for four years. The Court below
had charged the jury, that the defendant was not liable for a deficiency of public money reported on by the accounting officers,
subsequent to the expiration of his office. On this, the Supreme
Court-say, that if by this "it was intended to convey the idea,
that he was not responsible for money that came into Swartwout's
hands while in office, but Ahich he afterwards failed to account
for and pay over, it was clearly incorrect." Inthe case of Farrar
v. The United States, 5 Peters, 373, the plaintiff was the surety
of Rector, the Surveyor General, in a bond, dated 17th of August,
1823, conditioned that he "shall faithfully discharge the duties
of his office." He was appointed on the 13th of June, 1823,
and had received certain public money before the date of his

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

201

[The United States v. Boyd et al.]
bond,' and some even before the date of his commission. Thfs
money he failed to pay over, and the sureties denied their'liability for such failure. The Supreme Court said, "that for any
sums paid to Rector, prior to the execution of his bond, there is but
one ground on which the' sureties could be held answerable, and
'that is, on the assumption that he still held th'e money in bank,
or otherwise. If still in his hands, he was, up to that time, a
bailee of the government: but upon the contrary hypothesis, he
had become a defaulter, and his defence was already consummated." They go on to say, referring to the latter state of the
case, that then, "if intended to cover past dereliction, the bond
should have been made retrospective in its language." In the
case of TheUnited States v. Tin'gey, 5 Peters, 128, the question
arose whether or not, a bond voluntarily entered into, might not
be made by the sureties with the United States, as fully as it might
be with an individual: and this Court expressly recognised the
binding authority of such a contract on the sureties.
From these decided cases it clearly results, that where a surety
voluntarily enters into a bond, he is bound by its conditions as
they are to be deduced from the recitals of the instrument itself;.
that these conditions may be retrospective in their character, and
apply to a series of transactions commencing before the date of
the bond, if such is the agreement therein; that the agreement
to pay over public moneys applies equally to those received
before, as after the date of the bond, (even'without a retrospective
clause,) where they remain in hand at the date of the bond.
In the present'case, the record establishes the facts necessary
to bring it within these principles. The bond is voluntary; it
embraces in terms all acts of the principal as tar back as the 23d
of December; the money was in his hands at the date of the
bond.
Ain objection of a different character was taken by the counsel
for the defendant in error, but not pressed in the argument. .It'is
to the form of the repli'cation, which, it is alleged, "does not fairly
respond to the plea;" but is "evasive and uncertain.'
An
examination of the pleadings will show that this objection cannot
be sustained; but this is unnecessary; for if it were valid, it was
not assigned as a special cause of demurrer, without which, by the

SUPREME COURT.
[ThA United States v. Boyd et aL.

law and practice of Mississippi, it could not be noticed by the
Court. Revised Code of Miss. 614.
On the whole case, therefore, it is submitted that the. Court
below erred in sustainink the 'demurrer, and that the liability
if the sureties ought to have been enforced.
Mr. Cocke, for the defendant.
This was an action of debt, brought by the plaintiffs in -error
against the defendants, in the Circuit Court of the United Staies
for the District of Mississippi. It is founded on the official bond
given by Gordon D. Boyd, as Receiver of Public Moneys of the
United States, for the district of lands subject to sale at Columbus,
in the state of Mississippi.
By an inspection of the bond, it appears that the said Gordon
D. Bbyd was appointed Receiver on the 27th day of December,
1836; but that he'and his sureties did not execute the bond sued
on, until the 15th day of June, 1837; and that the bond was not
approved at the Treasury Department of the United States until
the 9th day of October, 1837.
The sureties, the present defendants, craved oyer of the bond
and the condition; and the condition being read to them in these
words: "The condition of the foregoing obligation is such, that
whereas the President of the United States hath, pursuant to law,
appointed- the said Gordon D. Boyd Receiver of Public Moneys
for the district of lands subject to sale at Columbus, in the state
of Mississippi, for the term of four years from the 27th day of
December, 1836: Now, therefore, if the said Gordon D. Boyd
shall faithfully execute and discharge the duties of his office, then
the above obligation to be -void and of none effect; otherwise, it
shall abide and remain in full force and virtue." The defendants
pleaded that the said Gordon D. Boyd did, from time to time, and
at all times, after the making of the said bond and condition
thereof, well and truly observe, perform, fulfil, and keep the
condition of the said bond, by faithfully executing and discharging the duties of his office, according to the tenor and effect, true
intent and meaning of the condition of the said bond.
To this plea the plaintiffs replied, and'assigned two breaches
of the condition to the said bond, to wit:
1st That the said Gordon D. Boyd did not'well and truly

JANUARY TERM, 1841.
(The Unt

203"

Stateg v. Boyd et *.]

.nd
perform the condition of the said bond declared on, but
keep
broke the same in this, to wit: that the said Gordon D. Boyd,
after the said 27th day of December, 1836, and while- he was
Receiver of Public Moneys for the district of lands subject to sale
at Columbus, in the state of Mississippi, and as such Receiver,
received- of the public moneys of the United States divers large
sums of money, amounting in the whole to a large ;um of money,
to wit: to the sum of fifty-nine thousand six hundred and
twenty-two dollars and sixty cents, -at,the district aforesaid;
which said sum of fifty-nine thousand six hundred and twenty.
two'dollars and sixty cents, the said Gordon D. Boyd. then
and there wholly failed, neglected, and refused, to pay over
to the plaintiffs) pursuant to his instructions from the Secretary
of the Treasury of the United States, as he was bound to do by
"raw,and the duties of his said office of Receiver.
2d. That the said G6rdon D. Boyd, after the 27th day of
December, 1836, and on divers days and times between that
day and the 30th of September, 1837, and while he was Receiver
of Public Moneys for the district of land tmbject. to sale at Columbus, in the state of Mississippi, and as such Receiver, received
divers largd sums of the public money of the United States,
amounting in the whole to a large sum of money, to wit: to the
sum of fifty-nine thousand six hundred and twenty-two dollars
and sixty cents, at the district aforesaid; and that the said sum
of fifty-nine thousand six hundred and twenty-two dollars and
sixty cents, remained in the hands o t e said Gordon D. Boyd,
.as Receiver as aforesaid, on the 30th day of September, 1837, to
wit: at-the district aforesaid, and that the said Gordon D. Boyd
then and there wholly failed, neglected, and refused to pay the
same over to the plaintiffs, pursuant to his instructions from the
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, as he was bound
to do by law, and the duties of his office.
To this replication the defendants demurred; and, for . causes
of demurrer, stated the following, to wit:
1st. The first breach does not state, ot show the time at which
the sum of money mentioned was received by the said Gordon
D. Boyd, as-Receiver: whether the same was received before or
after the day of the date of the said bond.
;d. The first breach does not state or show that the said Gordon

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Boyd et al-]

D. Boyd hath failed, neglected, or refused to pay over to the
plaintiffs, any moneys collected by him at any time after the day
of the date of the said bond.
-3d. The second breach'assigned, does not state or show any
time at which the said Gordon T. .. oyd received the said sum
of money mentioned in the said second breach.
4th. The said second breach does not state or show that the
said Gordon D. Boyd neglected, failed, or refused to pay over
any moneys collected by him as such Receiver, at any time after
the day. of the date of said bond.
To this there was joinder in demurrer; on which the Circuit
Court, after argument, gave judgment for the defendants. To
reverse this judgment, the plaintiffs have prosecuted their writ
of error to the Supreme Court of the United States. To sustain
the judgment of the. Court below, on the part of the defendants,
it is insisted:
1st. That it is the duty of the Court to look into the contract
itself; the construction of it is a question of law, and the Court
will construe it with a view to the real intention of the parties to
it. It will be found that the contract was entered into on the
15th of June, 1837, and approved on the 9th of October, 1837;
that it is prospective in its terms. It is an executory contract,
both in its terms and legal effect. Its object was to secure the
faithful discharge of duties thereafter to be performed. If, at
the time of the execution of the bond, on the 15th of June, 1837,
the sureties had been told that Boyd had already become defaulter to the government, to the amount of fifty-nine thousand
six hundred and twenty-two dollars andi sixty cents, and they
had then been asked to become responsible for that defalcation;
it would have involved very different considerations than those
of an undertaking that he should thereafter execute and discharge
the duties of his office.
In the matter of Rector, in the case of Farrar and Brown v.
The United States, 5 Peters, 373, this Cou t well say: "If the
contract is entered into to cover a past dereliction, the bond should
have been made retrospective in its language. The securities
have not undertaken against his past misconduct.
In the case of The United States v. Giles et al., 9 Cranch Rep.
212, the Court say: "If the marshal, before the date of his

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

205

[The United States v; Boyd et al.]

official bond, receive money upon an execution due to the United
States, with orders from the Comptroller to pay it into the Bank
of the United States, which he neglects to do; the sureties in his
official bond, executed afterwards, are not liable therefor upon
the bond, although the money remained in the marshal's hands
after the execution of the bond."
This case, on principle, covers all the grounds upon which
Boyd's securities are attempted to be inculpated.
So far as the proceedings in this action upon the bond are
concerned, there is, perhaps, no difference, in point of law, between the liability of Boyd and the liability of the sureties. It
may be said, that it is the contract of both, and binds both, or
neither. United States v. Orr's adm's, 8 Peters's Rep. 399.
The United States are, however, not without remedy; for
there can be no doubt but that an action in another form would
lie against Boyd for the amount received, however o.wnensoever received. Ibid.
The Supreme Court may now be informed that, for the
amount of-his defalcation, Boyd, in an action of assumpsit, at
the suit of the United States against him, for so much money
had and received to the use of the United States, has confessed
a judgment in the Court below. But be this as it may, it cannot
be true that the sureties can be inculpated for any defalcation
that may have occurrtd prior to their having become sureties.
The contract of a surety is to be construed strictly, both in law
and in equity; and his liability is not to be extended by implication beyond the terms of his contract. Miller v. Stuart et al.,
9 Wheat. 680.
To the extent, and in the manner pointed out in his obligation,
is the surety bound, and no further;' and be has the right to
stand upon the very- terms of his contract. Ibid.
2d. In a case lik'e the' present, the pleading justly commands
our attentiol., The replication holds the important position of
the declaration, and should state the facts upon which the plaintiffs rely for a recovery, with the same certainty as would be
required in a,declaration; a certainty at least equal to the legal
effect of the contract declared on. It should show the mattei
of right, in point of law, on which the plaintiffs seek a recovery.
It should support the declaration, and be at the same time
VOL. XV.-S

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Boyd at aL]

responsive to the plea. It should either confess and avoid the
plea, stating distinctly the matter of avoidance; or it should deny
the plea, so ihat the defendants could take issue, on the matter
of fact on which the plaintiffs' legal right for a recovery de-

pends;
Based upon the position that the defendants' liabilities were,
by the terms and legal effects of their contract, limited to the
execution and discharge of the official duties from and after the
15th June., 1837, they tendered to the plaintiffs.the isue that
Boyd had from time to time, and at all times after the giving
of the bond, well and truly kept and performed. the condition
of it.
It is manifest that the plaintiffs, in their replication, have
attempted to dodge this question.
They have failed, and refused fairly to respond&to the plea;
and from any thing appearing in the replication, it is as reasonable to suppose that the money mentioned, was received between
the 27th day of December, 1836, and the 15th of June, 1837; as
it is to suppose that the money was received after the 15th of
June, 1837.
The replication is, therefQre,,obviously evasive and uncertain;
and fails to set forth such facts under the contract as, in point
o law, entitle the plaintiffs to recover.
The Court below was assuredly right in sustaining the demurrer, and this Court will affirm that decision.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of debt brought upon a bond with the following recital and condition, dated June 15th, 1837:
"The condition-of the foregoing obligation is such, that whereas the President of the United States hath, pursuant to law,
appointed the said Gordon D. Boyd, Receiver of Public Moneys
for the district of lands subject to sale at Columbus, in the state
of Mississippi, for the term of four years from the 27th day of
December, 1836.
"Now, therefore, if the said Gordon D. Boyd shall faithfully
execute and discharge the duties of his office, then the above
obligation to be void and of none effect, otherwise it slall abide
and remain in full force and virtue."

.JANUARY TERM, 1841.

207

(The United States v.Boyd et aL]

The defendants craved oyer of the bond, condition, &c.; and
pleaded performance of the condition.
By a replication, the defendants assigned two breaches.
1. That said Boyd, after the 27th day of Decdmber, 1836,
received, in his official capacity. fifty-nine thousand six hundred
and twenty-two dollars, which he failed to pay over to the United
States, as he was bound to do. by law.
2. That-said Boyd on the 27th day of December, 1836, and
at divers days between that day and the 30th day of September,
1837, received fifty-nine thousand six hundred and.twenty-two
dollars as Receiver, which sum remained in his hands on the
30th day of September, 1837; and that he failed to pay the
same pursuant to his instructions from the Secretary of the
Treasury, as he was bound to do by law, and the duties of his
offide.
To this replication the defendants demurred; and the Court
below sustained the demurrer.
The first question arising on the pleadings-is, whether the sureties of Boyd are boun4 -for defalcations between the 27th of December, 1836, the date of'the appointment, and the 15th day of
June, 1837, the date of the bond.
The condition of the bond is prospective, and in its last clause
does not differ in effect from that passed on in the case of Farrar
and Brown v. The United States, in 5 Peters, 374. 389. In that
case, William Rector had been appointed' Surveyor of Public
Lands, and given bond with sureties, conditioned-, "If thie said
William Rector shall faithfully execute and discharge the duties
of his office, then said bond to be void," &c.
Rector had been appointed and commissioned as Surveyor on
the 20th February, 1.823. The bond bore date the 7th day of
August,'1823. The prominent question presented on the trial
was, whether the" sureties of Rector were liable for moneys
received by'him as surveyor, and appropriated to his own use,
after his appointment, and before the execution of the bond;. on
which the Court held, that the sureties could only be made answerable for moneys in Rector's hands at the date of the bond;
-which were held by :hirht in his official capacity, in trust for the
government, and not-for moneys previously appropriated 49 his
own use. Say the Court, "If intended to cover past derelic-

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Boyd et aL]

tion, the b9nd should have been made retrospective in its language. The sureties have not iindertaken against his past misconduct."
But the failure of the Receiver to account, and pay quarterly,
as.pj.escribed by the rules of the Treasury Department: or
monthly, if the sum of ten thousand dollars had been received
during any one month, was no legal defalcation of which the
sureties can avail themselves. Laches are not imputable to the
government. The regulations requiring settlemenis to be made
by its officers at short periods are designed for the protection of
the government, and merely directory to the officers, and form
no part of the contract. Such is the settled doctrine of this
Court, as hoiden in The United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Weaton.
The United States v. Vanzant, 11 Wheaton; and The United
States v. Nicholl, 12 Wheaton, .509.
It follows, the averment in the replicatibn, that Boyd, from
the 27th of December, 1836, to the 30th of September, 1837, had
received on behalf of the United States, the sum of fifty-nine
thousand six hundred and twenty-two dollars. which sum, at
the last date, remained in his hands, and for which he then failed
to account, as bound to do by law, and the duties of his office,
is a good breach of the condition, and well assigned; it matters
not at what time the moneys had been received, if after the appoiritment they were held by the officer in trust for the United
States, and so continued to be beld, at, and after, the date of the
bond. That they were so h6lden at the end of the third quarter
of 1837, is admitted by the demurrer.
It is inisisted on behalf of the United States, that -side from
the foregoing ponsiderations, the sureties are bohnd equally with
the principal in the bond, on the ground that the condition, on
settled legal principles, and by implication, is retrospective, and
covers all defaults of the officer, from the date of the commission; because it is recited, and part of the obligation, that Boyd
had been appointed Receiver for four years from the 27th da "
of December, 1836. We have with much care considered this
position, and think it cannot be sustained. This Court held, irt
Miller v. Stuart, 9 Wheaton, 702, that the liability of a surety is
not to be extended, by implication, beyond the terms of, his contract; that his undertaking is to receive a strict interpretation;

JANUARY TERM, 1841

209

[The United States v. Boyd et aL.)
and not to extend beyond the fair scope of its terms; and that the
whole series of authorities procieded on this ground. The principal ones relied on in that case have been relied on in the present'; and we think the principles settled by them preclude the
Court from maintaining that the sureties are liable by implication, contrary to tile plain prospective obligation of the bond,:
(that the said Boyd shall faithfully execute and discharge the
duties of his office." In the language of the Court, in Farrar
and Brown v. The United States: "If intended to cover past
dereliction, the bond should have been made retrospective in its
language."
Some difficulty has been presented in regard to the form of the
replication, testing it by the common law principles of pleading.
It avers several breaches. The cause, however, comes by writ
of error from the district of Mississippi; and the modes of proceeding of that state govern the pleadings. By the act of 1822,
sec. 2, found in the Revised Code of Mississippi, 614, any number
of breaches may be assigned; and by sec. 6, when a demurrer
shall-be joined, in any action, no defect in the pleadings shall be
regarded by the Court, unless specially alleged in the demurrer,
as causes thereof. That several breaches had been assigned, is
not alleged as a special cause of demurrer, and therefore could
not have been noticed by the Court, had no provision existed
justifying more breaches than one; even had such replication
been contrary to*the strict rules of pleading by the common law.
It is proper to remark, that when this cause is remanded to the
Circuit Court for further proceedings' to be had therein, it
will be in the condition it would have been, had that Court
overruled the demurrer; and subject to additional pleadings,
or an amendment of the present ones, according to the rules and
practice of the Circuit Court; and on such terms as it may
impose.
We order that the judgment be reversed, the demurrer overruled; and that -judgment be entered by the Circuit Court, for
the penalty of the bond in favour of the United States against
the defendants, to be discharged by the assessment of damages
on the second breach in ithe replication, unlss the pleadings, on
leave granted, be amended, in prevention of suchjudgment, and
assessment of damages.
s2
27

-

210

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Boyd ebaL]

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed; and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
overrule the demurrer, and' to enter judgment for the penalty of
the bond, in favour of the pidintiff, against the defendants, to be
discharged by the assessment and payment of damages on the
second breach in the replication, unless the pleadings, on leave
granted, be amended, in prevention of such judgment and assessment of damages.

