JANUA-1Y TERM, 1841.

MARTIN

A.

LANGDPN,

LEA, MONROE

RAEETAILLE, AND

APPELLANTS V). ENOCH S.

CHARLES

G.

KELLY, APPELLEE.

A juagment was entered on a promissory note drawn by Kelly and others in favour
of La and others, in the Circuit Court of Alabama. Afterwards, Kelly, the appellee, filed a bill on th6 equity side of the Court, fot the purpose of being relieved
from the judgment at law obtained against him and two other persons, on the promissory note. The bill alleged fraud in the plaintiff in the suit, and that the com-

plainant had no notice of the suit, and had not authorized an appearance, r filed any
plea in the same.. The bill prayed for a perpetual injunction of proceedings on the
judgment, and for general relief. The injunction was granted: aid afterwards, on
the appearance of two of the plaintiffs in the suit at law, the Circuit Court decreed,
that, on the condition that the complainant, Kelly, appear and plead to the merits
of the case, waiving the question ofjurisdiction, and pay costs of the suit at law,'and
the proce"edings int-quity, a new trial be awarded to the complainant. Two of the
plaintiffs in the suit at law, who had appeared to the bill, appealed to the Supreme
Court, seeking to reverse this decree. Hefd, that the decree of the Circuit Court was
merely interlocutory; and was not a final decree for which an appeal .could be takeii.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
Southern District of Alabama.
Mr. Kee, for the appellees, moved to dismiss the appeal. He'
alleged that the decree of the Court, from which the appeal was
prosecuted, was note final decree.
Mr. Chief Justicd TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
A motion has been madeby the appellee to dismiss this case,
upon the ground that the, decree of the Circuit Court, from which
the appeal has been taken, is not a final decree, within the meaning of the act of 1803, ch. 93,
It appears that a bill was filed against the appellants, in the
Circuit Court of the United States,-for the Southern Ditrict of
Alabama, by Enoch S. Kelly, the present appellee; for the purpose of being relieved from a judgment at law in the said Court,
oltained by the appellants against him and two other persons
named in the proceedings, upon a promissory note signed by
them, and purporting to be for the sum of five thousand d.6lars,
upon which judgment and execution had issued.

214

SUPREME COURT.
[Lea et al. v. Kelly.)

The complainant charges in his bill, that the clain-of the appellants against him is fraudulent, and he sets out fully tne particular
facts upon which he relies to prove the fraud; and avers that no
process, save the execution, was served upon him in the suit at
law, and that he had no notice that the suit was brought against
him,until the execution was issued; that he entered no appearance
to the suit, nor filed any plea in it, nor authorized any one to do
it for him: and that if any attorney had done so, it was without
the complainant's knowledge or consent; and prays that the
appellants (who were made defendants in the bill) might be perpetually enjoined from proceeding against the complainant on
said judgment; and also for general relief.
The injunction was accordingly granted by the Court; and
afterwards, Lea and Langdon, two of the appellants, appeared
and answered, denying all fraud and alleging that their claim
against the appellee was fair arid just.
It does not appear that Rabetaille, the other defendant, answered the bill; and, in this state, of the proceedings, the Circuit
Court, at April term, 1839, passed the following decree :"This -day came the parties by their solicitors, and this cause
coming on to be heard, upon the bill, answer, and exhibits, it is
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that, upon condition that the
said Enoch S. Kelly, complainant, appear, plead to the merits
of the case, and go to trial on the same at the next term of this
Court, waiving the question of jurisdiction, and pay costs of the
suit at law, and the proceedings in equity, a new trial be awarded
to the said complainant."
It is from' this order or decree that the present appeal has been
taken: and it is evident that the order is merely interlocutory;
and that no final decree has been passed in the case. The bill
has not been dismissed, nor hai the injunction been made perpetual. The new trial at law appears to have been directed to
inform the conscience of the Court; and the bill retained, and the
injunction continued, until the finding of the jury should be
known. The suit in equity is therefore yet pending and has not
been disposed of by final decree, and the appeal tb this Court
must be dismissed.

