JANUARY TERM 1841.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. THE HEIRS 0'

JOHN

FORBES, APPELLEES.
John Forbes, by memorial to Governor Kindelan, the Governor of East Florida,
set forth, that, in 1799, there had been granted to Panton, Leslie, and Company,
for the purpose of pasturage, fifteen thousand acres of land, which they were
obliged to abandon, as being of inferior quality. Forbes, as the successor to
these grantees, asked to be permitted to abandon these fifteen thousand acres, and,
in lieu, to have granted to him ten thousand acres, as an equivalent, on Nassau
river. The petition avers, that the obj;ct was to establish a rice plantation. The
petition was referred to "the Comptroller," who gave it as his opinion, that the
culture of rice should be promoted. Governor Kindelan permitted the abandonment of the fifteen thousand acres granted before, and in lieu thereof, granted to John
Forbes, for the object of cultivating rice, ten thousand acres in the district, or banks
of the river Nassau. Surveys of seven thousand acres of land, at the head of the
river "Little St. Marys" or 4 St. Mary," and three thousand acres in " Cabbage
Swamp," were made under this grant. No description of the locality of the land,
other than that in the certificate of the survey, was given; nor do the surveys prove,
that the land surveyed lay in the district of the river Nassau. No evidence was given
of the situation of "Cabbage Swamp." Held, that these surveys were not Made on
the land granted by Governor Kindelan; and, according to the decisionsbf this Court,
on all occasions, the surveys, to give them validity, must be in conformity with the
grants on which they are founded; and to make them the origin of title, they must
be of the land described in the grant of the Spanish government.
The cases of the United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 486. The United Statesv. Huertas,
9 Peters, 171, cited.
The Courts of Justice can only adjudge what has been granted; and declare that the
lands granted by the lawful authorities of Spain, are separated from the public
domain: but where the land is expressly granted at one place, they have no power;
by a decree, to grant an 'quivalent at another place, and thereby sanction an abandonment of the grant made by the Spanish authorities. The Courts of the United
States have no authority to divest the title of the United States in the public lands,
and vest it in claimants; however just the claim may be to an equivalent for land, the
previous grant of which has failed.
The case of the Uriited States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 691, cited.
The decree of th Supreme Court of East Florida, which had confirmed the grant to
@John Forbes, reversed.

ON appeal froni the Superior Court of East Florida.
The executor of John Forbes, on the 20th of May, 1829, prethe Eastern District

sented a petition to the Superior Court for
P2

174

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Forbes]

of Florida, claiming ten thousand acres of land, seven thousand
of which were surveyed on the waters of "Little St. -Marys
river," in the then district of Nassau, in East Florida; the other
tract, being three thousand acres, was alleged to be situated on
"Cabbage Swamp," also in East Florida.
The-petition stated, that the grant for the land was made by
Governor Kindelan, in lieu of fifteen thousand acres which had
been surrendered by John Forbes to the King of Spain.
The petition contained the "Memorial for grant,".which was
presented on the 27th Jily, 1814, to Governor Kindelan, by John
Forbes. It was with the proceedings, and as follows:
HIs EXCELLENCY TEE Gov

mRNo:

I, Don Juan Forbes, partner of the firm of Juan Forbes and
Company, successors of Panton, Leslie, and Company, merchant
of this province, with the greatest respect, appears before your
excellency, and says,,that the said, firm of Panton, Leslie, and
Company obtained, in the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-nine, a grant of fifteen thousand acres of vacant lands
in the district of St. John, in order to employ their slaves in the
agriculture and for grazing their cattle. as is seen by lhe certificate annexed; but after a short time, they were untler the
necessity to abandon them, as being of an inferior quality, the
same thing happened to which, which frequently happens in
this province, where the planter does not every time succeed in his
choice of land, which he perceives only when a sorrowful experience shows him his error; and as it has been for many preceding years that the government, in attention to similar misfortunes,
and to the expenditures and losses which have been incurred, has
had the goodness to permit the taking up other vacant lands,
provided the prior grant be abandoned. Finding myself situated
in the same case, and wishing to establish a rice plantation,
which production we have been, until the present time, under
the necessity to import from foreign parts: I, from this moment,
abandon the said fifteen thousand acres of land in behalf of his
majesty, (whom may God have in his holy keeping,) suppli:
cating him to admit it, and in lieu thereof, to grant me an equivalent in the district of Nassau river. Therefore, I supplicate your
excellency, be pleased to order that my foimer abandonment be

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

175

The United States v. Forbes]

received, and, in consequence, that ten thousand acres be granted
to me, in said district of Nassau river; the survey of which I
will produce, as soon as the tranquillity of the province enables
me to execute it.
Which favour, &c.
JuAN FoRBEs.
On the 27th July, 1814, Governor Kindelan ordered, on the
petition, "let the Comptroller inform on the subject."
The Comptroller reported, on the 8"th July, 1814, that"Whereas, in this province, lands are distributed gratis, no
record has been entered in the Comptroller's office, of lands so
given, nor to whom given, for which reason it is not known
what lands have been given, and what remain vacant. Therefore nothing can be said on the subject about which information
is required: it appears, however, that it is useful to promote tfie
culture of rice, to which, as the interested party alleges, the lands
granted to him the seventh of August, bne thousand seven hundred and ninety-nine, for the express purpose of pasturage, as
appears bjr the annexed certificate of the then notary of government, Juan de Pierra, are not adapted."
On the same day, Governor Kindelan made the following
"grant," by
DECREE.

St. Augustine, on the twenty-eighth of July, one thousand
eight hundred and fourteen. It is permitted to this interested
party to give his formal abandonment of the fifteen thousand
acres of land, comprehended in the document annexed to the
petition, and in lieu: of them the ten thousand are granted to
him, without prejudice to a third party, for the objects solicited,
in the district or bank of the river Nassau; and in consequence,
let the corresponding certificate be issued in his behalf from the
secretary's, office, in order that it may serve him as a title inform, and it ivill be the duty of the party to produce the plat
and demarcations in the proper time, and let the expedient be
registered in the secretary's office.
KINDELAN.

On,the 23d October, 1816, George J. F. Clark, "the SurveyorGeneral,",*certified that he had made "a survey" of seven

176

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Forbes.]

thousand acres at the head of the river Little St. Mary's, or St.
Mary's river, and annexed "a plat" of the same to his certificate
of survey, which, the certificate states, he "keeps in the register
of surveys under his charge."
On.the 20th October, 1816, George J.F. Clarke certified that
he had made a survey of three thousand acres "in Cabbage
Swamp, in part of ten thousand acres," granted to John Forbes,
in absolute property, and annexed "a plat" of the same to his
certificate, as Surveyor-General, and stated "that he keeps the
same in the register of surveys under his charge."
After evidence had been taken on behalf of the petitioner and
of the United States, the Court confirmed the claim of the petitioner to the extent for the number of acres, and at the place, as
in the memorial of the said John Forbes, and the decree of the
Governor thereon, is set forth, to wit: "Ten thousand acres of
land in the district or bank of the river Nassau."
The United States prosecuted this appeal.
The case was argued by Mr. Gilpin, Attorney-General, for the
appellants; and by Mr. Downing, for the appellees.
Mr. Gilpin, the Attorney-General, for the United States.
In this case, the Superior Court of East Florida made a decree
in faVour of the defendants in error, declaring their title to "ten
thousand acres of land in the district or bank of Nassau river,"
to be valid, under the eighth article of the treaty between Spain
and the United States, ratified on the 22dFebruary, 1821. That
title is founded on an alleged grant to Juan Forbes, by Governor
Kindelan, dated 2sth July, 1814, of " ten thousand acres in, the
district or bank of the river Nassau, for the objects solicited" in
the memorial of the applicant; it being, says the grant, "the
duty of the party to produce the plat and demarcations in the
proper time.'" The memorial states the wish of Forbes to be
permitted to abandon a previous grant of fifteen thousand acres
of vacant land, in the district of St. John, on account-of its bad
quality, and to receive, in lieu of it, as he is desirous "to establish
a rice plantation," these ten thousand acres in the district of
Nassau river," the survey of which he promises to produce, as
soon as the tranquillity of the province enables him to execute it."

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

177

[The United States v. Forbes.]

The evidence of the claimants was a certificate of Aguilar, the
governor's secretary, that a copy of the "1expediente," or record
of the memorial and grant, had been given to the interested party; a certificate, dated 20th October, 1816, by Clarke, the Surveyor-General, that he had surveyed "for Don Juan Forbes,
three thousand acres in Cabbage Swamp, in part of ten thousand
acres granted to him by the government;" another certificate,
dated 23d October, 1816, by Clarke, that he had surveyed for
him,"'seven thousand acres at the head of the river Little St.
Mary's, being the complement of ten thousand acres granted to
him by the government;" and a deposition of Sophia Fleming,
in which she says she "has heard that Nassau river and the
Little St. Mary's are near to each other; that she does not know
what district was called Nassau ; and that she does not know
the distance from Nassau river to Little St. Mary's."
It does not appear that the District Attorney excepted, in the
Court below to the evidence of the g ant; but, judging fro& the
case as now presented in the record, it may be doubted whether
the certificate of the governor's secretary was such a one, or
was sustained by such corroborative testimony, as would make
it sufficient evidence of title, according to the decision of this
Court, in the case of the United States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters, 348.
In that case, the Secretary certified, on the day of the grant, that
"the preceding copy is faithfully drawn from the original, which
exists in the Secretary's office, under my charge ;" in the present
certificate, there is no date, and no averment either that the particular record is a true copy, or that the original does or ever did
exist in the Secretary's office. In that case, the corroborative
testimony, on which the Court chiefly relied, was a survey in
strict conformity to the grant, and referring to its date; in the
present, the two surveys agree with the grant in nothing but the
quantity ; they differ as to the location, and they make no reference to the date.
It is submitted, however, that even if the grant was made by
Governor Kindelan, yet Forbes derived no valid title under it,
which'the Court below was authorized to confirm. He solicited,
in his memorial, a grant of~ten thousand acres in the district of
Nassau river, of which he was to produce a survey; and it was
for the purpose of establishing a rice plantation. The grant was
23

178

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States ,,. Forbes.]

made "for the objects solicited," and under the duty imposed
upon him "to produce the plat and demarcations in the proper
time." There is no proof either that the land was surveyed,
marked out, and located according to the grant; or that the conditions of cultivation and settlement were complied with.
I. The grant was made by the Governor; in general terms, as to
the district in which the petitioner was to locate the tract conceded to him. The quantity was prescribed, and the district; the
particular locality was to be ascertained by the survey which
was to b(- made "within the proper time ;" until that should be
done, it was in fact but a mere order of survey. The eighth
section of the regulations of Governor White, (2 White's New
Rec. 278,) which were then in existence, establishes the necessity of an immediate and definite survey the fofirth section requires that possession should be taken within six months: of
course the survey must have been made and returned within
that period. 2 White's New Rec. 286. What the general pro
visions of the Spanish law thus required, this grant made more
imperative, by expressly imposing the same duty, Has it been
performed? No evidence of any survey, agreeing in any respect with the grant, has been produced. The only evidence of
a survey is the two certificates of Clarke. Of these, it might be
sufficient to say, that they do not purport to have been made
under the authority of this grant, or to have reference thereto.
But supposing that they were intended so to be, they give the
claimant no title. They do not accord with the grant. They
are not an execution of the order of the Governor. In the first
place, the grant authorizes the location of a single tract; these
surveys call for two distinct tracts, at different places. In
the next place, the location is to be "on the bank of Nassau
river :" yet one tract is in Cabbage Swamp, about the locality
of which there is no testimony whatever; and the other is on
- Little St. Mary's' river, about which there is some slight testimony, to the effect, that the witness "has hehrd it is near Nassau
river." This is no location in accordance with the grant. To
establish a title to these tracts, the claimatit must show that a
certificate of survey is equivalent to a grant. He has no better
title to them. It is clear, then, that by the'Spanish law, the
claimant had not perfected his title.

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

179

[The United States v. Forbes.]'

But it is argued that, under the eighth article of the treaty,
(6 Laws of United States, 618, 2 White's New Rec. 210,) the
grant is not void, but may be still' perfected by a survey. To
this it is replied, that the provision referred to does not apply to
a grant totally void at the date of the treaty; that such was the
case in regard to this grant, because the rules of the Spanish law,
by force of which alone this land could be severed from the
royal domain, never were complied with. At the date of the
treaty there was no valid grant to the claimant, in existence.
But if there had been, subsequent neglect to comply with the
same rules, would have made it void. The treaty, if applicable to
snch a case, could have extended no farther than to authorize
the claimant to perfect his title by a survey, within six months
after its date, which he never did.
These positions are fully warranted by previous decisions of
this Court. In the case of the United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters,
468, there was a grant of sixteen thousand acres at a place
described therein. One survey of eight thousand acres was
made within the bounds of the grant; two others for the residue,
were made elsewhere. "The grant," say the Court, "conveyed
the land described in the instrument, and no other." In the case
of the United States v. Huertas, S Peters, 491, there were
similar surveys, in different parcels, of the number of acres
granted; and this Court held "the claim to be valid to the extent,
and agreeably to the boundaries as in the surveys," whichi were
conformable to the grant, but. invalid as to the rest. In the cases
of the United States v. Levy, 8 Peters, 482, and of the United
States v. Seton, 10 Peters, 311, the same principle was again
affirmed. In the case of the United States v. Sibbald, 10 Peters,
321, the petition contained a elause soliciting permission to locate the quantity asked for, at a different place from that designated, "in the event that this situation will not permit the said
form," and the grant accorded to the claimant, "the permission
he solicited ;" on this ground, the objection, which was taken,
that the terms of the grant did not authorize a survey at the
place where the party made his location, was not sustained'by
this Court. In the case of the United States v. Arredondo,
13 Peters, 133, this Court said that the land mustbe taken as near
as might be to where it was granted; that it could not be taken

180

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Forbes.]

elsewhere; and that the grant gave no right to any equivalent
or another location. In that case too, the Court held, that where
"the description, in the petition of the locality of the concession,
was too indefinite to enable a survey to be made," the claimants
could "take nothing under the concession."
II. Supposing, however, that the petition, concession, and
surveys, are sufficient to give locality to the grant, was the title
perfected by the claimant? ' It was not. The grant was founded
on his petition for land, "to establish a rice plantation ;" it wpts
given "for the objects solicited :" they were never accomplished,
or attempted. Independent of this condition, in terms, that
arising from the Spanish law was equally imperative. This
was not an absolute grant in consideration of past or future
services; it was conferred for purposes of actual'cultivation and
settlement; the conditions of occupation and improvement, of
which the performance is necessary, in such cases, to make the
title complete, have been heretofore fully discussed, (United
States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters, 340;) and the declaration of Saavedra, formally confirmed by Governor Coppinger, (2 White's
Neew Rec. 284,) that concessions made either to foreigners, or
natives, with certificates from' the Governor's secretary, were
of no value or effect, if the lands granted were abandoned, or
not cultivated, has been deliberately recognised by this Court.
14 Peters, 351.
Mr, Downing, for the appellees, contended that the grants of
sevcn thousand acres, and three thousand acres, had been made
unconditional, by the Spanish government, on the surrender of
fifteen thousand acres which had been granted in another place.
The land was surveyed on the 23d of October, 1816. He
claimed, that by the Florida treaty, by the laws of Congress,
and by the decisions of this Court, in similar cases, the grants
should be confirmed, and the decision of the Superior Court of
Florida should be approved by the Court.
Mr. justice CATRioN delivered the opinion of the Court.
John Forbes, by his memorial to Governor Kindelan, (without
date,) sets forth, that in 1799, there had been granted to Panton,
Leslie & Co., for the purpose of agriculture, and for grazing

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

181

[The United States v. Forbes.]

their cattle, fifteen thousand acres of land, in the district of St.
Johns, which they were under the necessity of abandoning, as
being of an inferior quality: that said John Forbes is one of the
firm of John Forbes & Co., successor to Panton, Leslie & Co.
And said John Forbes prays to be permitted to abandon the
fifteen thousand acres, to the king's domain; and in lien thereof,
to have granted to him an equivalent in the district of-Nassau
river, to wit: That ten thousand acres be granted to him in said
district of Nassau river, the survey of which he will, produce
as soon as the tranquillity of the province enables him to -execute it.
The petition avers the object was to establish a rice plantation.
The petition was referred to the Comptroller, Lopez, for a report thereon, to Governor Kindelan; the Comptroller reports that
records of such grants, were not made in his office, and of course
he could give no information on the subject; but gives it as his
opinion, that the culture of rice should be promoted.
On the 28th of July, 1814, Governor Kindelan permitted the
abandonment of the fifteefi thousand acres granted in 1799; and
in lieu thereof, granted to John Forbes, for the object of cultivating rice, ten thousand acres, in the district, or bank of the river
Nassau, and ordered a certificate to issue in the ordinary form,
from the Secretary's office, to serve the party as a title in form;
making the duty of said Forbes,,to produce the plat and demarcation in proper time.
On the 23d of October, 1816, George F. Clarke, the Surveyor,
returned, that he had, as Surveyor General of East Florida, surveyed and delineated for Don Juan Forbes, seven- thousand
acres of land, at the head of the river Little St. Mary's, or St.
Mary river; said land being the complement of ten thousand
acres, which were granted to him in absolute property, confor!mably to the annexed plat.
Previously, on the 20th of October, 1816, said Clarke had surveyed for Forbes, three thousand acres in part of the ten thousand acres granted- to him, conformably to the annexed plot.
This survey was in Cabbage Swamp. But no other description
of locality appears, either from the certificate or plat. Nor is there
any evidence appearing on the surveys, or by propf, that the
lands surveyed lie in the distiict of the river Nassau, or on the
VOL. XV.-Q

182

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Forbes.)

bank .of said river; on the contrary, the seven thousand acre
survey is on the river Little St. Mary's, which a woman, Mrs.
Fleming, proves she had heard, was near to the Nassau. The
situation of Cabbage Swamp does not appear from the record.
The decree of Governor Kindelan contemplated that the
tract should be included in one survey; as did the petition of
Forbes. Neither of the surveys corresponding with the concession, in regard to the district where the survey could alone be
made; and being on lands not granted by the Governor of Florida; the surveys, if confirmed, would be recognised as of themselves appropriations of the lands, independently of the concession on which they profess to be founded; making them the
origin of title, and assuming that the surveyor had the power
to grant. This Court has on all occasions holden, when the'
question has been presented, that the survey must be for the land
granted by the proper authority. The United States v. Clarke,
8 Peters, 468. The United States v. Huertas, 9 Peters, 171.
The Courts of justice can only adjudge what has been granted; and declare that the lands granted by the lawful authorities
of Spain,. are separated from the public domain: but where the
land is expressly gianted at one place, they ha'e no power by a
decree to grant an equivalent at another place, and thereby
sanction an abandonment of the grant made by the Spanish
authorities. All the public domain of Spain was ceded to this
government by the treaty of cession, and the title in fee to the
same vested in the United States; from the lands thus acquired,
was excepted individpal property. First, the paper title to such
private .Property'it is our duty to investigate and ascertain, and
by our decisions to establish; and secondly, it is our duty to
ascertain, and cause, to be surveyed'and marked by definite
boundaries, the lands granted: and here the duties of the Courts
end. They have no authority to divest the title of the United
States, and vest in a claimant, however just his claim may be
to an equiralent, These principles seem to be self-evident; and
their assertion not' called for, because of their undoubted character : yet the consequences flowing from them, will be found to
govern a class -of cases of large magnitude, now. n the courseof adjudication.' The one before us is of that class. The concession or grant, (for the terms are synonymous, in regard to the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

183

[The United States v. Forbes.]

Spanish titles of Florida,) to Juan Forbes, was for ten thousand.
acres in the district, or bank, of the river Nassau, with an order,
that the concession should serve him as a title in form; "and it
will be the duty df the party to prodiuce the plat and demarcations, in the proper time," says the decree of the Spanish governor. That this concession is founded on a past consideration;
that is, on the surrender of other fifteen thousand acres previously granted to Panton, Leslie, and Company, admits of no
doubt; still, the question recurs, what spot of land was.granted?
Of the district of Nassau we know nothing, as there is no proof
of the existence of such a section of country in the record;
unless we infer that it is in the range of country through which
the river Nassau runs. But the description is more precise, and.
authorizes the grantee to take the land on the bank of this river.
That there is such a river as the Nassau, in East Florida, lying
south of the St. Mary's river, we know from the general geography of the country; it is, however, a river of considerable
len 6 th; the land might have been located on either bank, from
its conmencement as a river, to its mouth at the ocean. No
survey of the land. granted was ever made; the duty imposed
upon the grantee to produce the plat and demarcations, in the
proper time, was never performed. This was a condition he
assumed upon himself; the execution and return of the survey
to the proper, office, in such case, could only sever the land
granted from the public domain. Before, the grantee had an
equal right to any lands on either bank of. the river Nassau.
The concession was made in 1814; and how long the party had
the right to survey and make the demarcation, it is needless to
inquire, as it has never been done. We apprehend, however,
rithin six months'after the ratification of the treaty, by the contracting parties respectively, was the latest date at which the
condition to survey could have been complied with: on this'
point, however, no definite and conclusive opinion is called for,
and none is given. Thus situated, the claim was presented, to
the Superior Court of Florida for confirmation. The Court pronounced the claim valid, that is, that the concession had been
made by the lawful authorities of Spain; and it was decreed,
that the lands "be confirmed at the place, as in the memorial
of the said John Forbes, and the decree of the Governor thereon

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Forbes.]

set forth, to wit: ten .thousand acres of land in the district, o.
bank of the river Nassau." From this decree, the United States
appealed; and in the review of which decree, we are compelled
to find the land granted, or to reject the claim, because we cannot identify the land. If this cannot be done, we have no power to
decree an equivalent out of the lands of the United States; for
the reason, that the Courts have no authority to divest the title of
the government, and to vest it in Forbes's heirs. No particular
land fiaving been severed from the public domain by John
Forbes, his was the familiar case of one having a claim on a
large section of 'country, unlocated; in its nature, and effect, as
it regards the goveriment, not differing from the holder of a
land warrant in the American states, which might be located by
survey at any spot that was not appropriated by an individual
title, in a certain district of country. In such a case the government has ever been deemed to hold the fee unaffected by a
vested equitable interest, until the location was made according
to the laws of the particular country. -So here, Forbes acquired
no title to any land that can be recognised by a Court of 3ustice,
and his claim must be pronounced void for want of identity;
and because it is impossible to settle the identity, and locate the
land by a judicial decree.
Although this question has not been directly presented to
the Court for decision; yet it did arise,.and received our carefdconsideration, in the cause of -The United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 691. In that case, thirty thousand acres
had been granted to Arredondo, in 1817, designated to lie
on Alligator creek, a bianch of the Suwanee, to begin about
seven miles west of Alligatortown; situated about forty miles
north-westwadly from Paynestown, and about eighty miles
from Buena Vesta; which parts of the country are known
under the name of Alachua. The Court say-"'the land must
be. taken as near as may be as it was granted, and cannot be
taken elsewhere. It(the grant) gives no right'to an equivalent
or another location; if it cannot be found at, or near, the place
designated; an equivalent is not secured by the concession in
terms, nor is it by the customs or usages of Spain, nor by any
law or ordinance of Spain. And it is proper here to remark,
that the acts of Congress for ascertaining claims and titles to land

JANUARY TERM," 1841.

185

(The United States v. Forbes.]

in Florida, whilst they recognise patents, grants, concessions, or
orders of survey, as evidence of title when lawfully made, do
not permit, in case of a deficiency in tl~e quantity from any
cause whatever, the survey to be extended on other lands."
Detailed and careful instructions are then given how the Court
below shall proceed to identify the land; and how it shall be sur1
veyed when the- identity is established: and then' the Court declare : "If, however, neither Alligator creek can be found, nor any
creek to the west of Alligatortown, entering into the Suwanee
within seven miles distance from the.town, or a reasonable distance therefrom; and if Alligatortown cannot be found; then,
it is the opinion of this Court, that the remaining description in
the petition, of the locality of the concession, is too indefinite to
enable a survey to be made; and that the appellees can take
nothing under the concession."
Subject to this opinion, and a
mandate in conformity-to it, the cause was remanded to the
Superior Court of. East Florida, for further proceedings, in execution of the decree and instructions of this Court; and -'vhere
it is probably now pending. We think the principle adopted
unquestionably correct, and which rules this case.
The petition of Juan Forbes, and the concession-of Governor
Kindelan, are authenticated and were read in evidence, by the
following certificate:
,"On the date, a copy of this expediente was given to the
interested party above.
AGUILAR."
We feel strongly impressed with the deficiency; and Vnsatisfactory character of the foregoing certificate; but as no objection
was made to the introduction of the title papers in the Court below, on behalf of the United States, on the hearing; and as the
cause has presented no difficulty on its merits.; this preliminary
point has been passed over, with this indication; so that in future, the objection may be taken below, should it be deemed
desirable to present the question on part of the government,
whether such authentication is sufficient to authorize the evidences of title to be read.
We order, the decree of the Superior Court to be reversed,
and that the petition be dismissed.
Q2
24

186

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Forbes.]

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Superior Court for the District of East Florida, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this Court, thafthe giant or concession is void for the
want of identity; that it appropriates no land, that the saidpetitioner has acquired no right or title to any specific land.
Whereupon, it is now here decreed and ordered by thins Court,
that the decree of the said Superior Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, reversed and annulled; and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Superior Court,
with directions to'enter a decree in conformity to the opinion of
this Cuurt.

