JANUARY TERM, 1841.

ut
-I

Bitusn,

APPELLJ:NT, V. JOHN

H. WARE

A.ND OTHERS,

APPELLEES.

The executor of an officer in the Virginia line on the. continental establishment, oh-.
tained a certificate from the executive council of Virginia, as ixecutor, for four thousand
acres of land in the Virginka reserve, in the state of Ohio; and afterwards sold and
assigned the same. Entries were made, and warrants issued in favour of the assign.
ees, and a survey was made under one of the warrants, in favour of one of the
assignees, a bona fide purchaser, who obtained a patent from the.United States for
the land. It appeared that the executor had no right, under the will, to sell the land
to which the testator was entited. The patent was grznted in 1818, and the patentee
had been in possession of the land from 1808. The heirs of the officer, entitled -to
the land for military services, in 1839, some of them being minors, filed a bill to compel the patentee to convey the land held by him to them. Held, That the patentee
was a purchaser with notice of the prior title of the heirs; and that he was bound to
make the conveyance asked from him.
Whatever doubts on nommon law principles might have existed on the question, whether the Court can go behind the patent for lands, and examine the equity asserted in
a bill clai*ing the land against the patent, in Ohio and Kentucky, this question has
been long judicially settled; and this Court, following: the decisions of those states,
have also decided it. The cases of Bodley et al. v. Taylor, 5 Cranch 196, and Polk's
lessee v. Wendail, 9 Cranch, 93. 5 WIfeat. 293. Miller et al. v. Kef, 7 Wheat. l.
Hoofnsgle v. Anderson, 7 Wheat. 212, cited.
A patent appropriates the land called for, and is conclusive against rights subsequently
acquired. But when an equitable right, whiclf originated before the date of the
patent, whether by' the first entry or otherwise, is asserted, it may be examined.
A patent for land under the Virginia land l]w,as modified by usage and judicial construction in Kentucky and Ohio, conveys the legal title, but leaves all equities open.
To make a valid entry, same object of notoriety must be called for; and unless this
object be proved to have len generally known in the neighbourhoed of the land, at
te time of the entry, the holder of a warrant who enters the same land with full
notice of the first entry, will have the better title. And so if an entry be not specific as to the land intended to be appropriated, it conveys no notice to the subsequent
locafor; nor can it be made good by a subsequent purchase without notice. 'But,
with those exceptions, the doctrine- of constructive notice has been considered applicable to military titles as in other cases; and no reason is perceived why this *rule
should not prevail. From the nature of these titles, and the force zf circumstances,
an artificial system has beeh created; unlike any other; and which has long foimed
the basis of title to real estate in a large and fertile district of country. Thepeceisrties*of this system having for half a century received judicial sanctionA MVAud
preserved; but to extend them would be unwise and impolitic.
No principle is better established than that a purchaser must look to every p t of ihe
title which is essential to its validity.

94

SUPREME COURT.
[Brsh v. Ware et al.]

An executor has ,aot, ordinarily, any power over the real estate. His powers are
derived from the will, and be can do no valid act beyond his authority. Where a
will contains no special provision on the subject, the land of the deceased descends to
his heirs; and this right cannot be divested, or impaired by the unauthQrized acts of
the executor.
The laW requires reasonable diligence in a purchaser to ascertain any defect of
title. But when such defect is brought to his knowledge, no inconvenience will
excuse him from the utmost scrutiny. He is a voluntary purchaser, and having
notice'of a fact which casts doubt on the validity of his title, the rights of innocent
persons are not to be prejudiced through his negligence.

THE appellees, John H. Ware.and otherp, heirs of Jbhn Hockaday, an officer in the Virginia line on the co'ntinental establishment, filed their bill in the. Circuit Court of Ohio, against the
appellant, Henry Brush, and against others, for the recovery of
certain rands in the state of Ohio, in the military reservation.
John Hockaday was entitled, under the acts and resolutions
of Congress, to four thousand acres, in the Virginia military
reserve. Afterwards, on the motion of the complainants, the
bill was dismissed as to all the defendants. except Henry
Brush; and a decree having been entered in the Circuit Court
in favour of the complainants, Henry Brush prosecuted this
appedl.
As the heirs of John Hockaday, the complainants, claimed
title to the land in question. John Hockaday made his will,
disposing of his personal property only; and Ware, one of the
executors, proved the will. As executor of Hoekaday, he made
a fraudulent sale of the military right of the testator to one
Joseph Ladd, and having obtained fron the executive council
of Virginia, a certificate of the right of John Hockaday for the
land to which he. was entitled, he assigned the same to John
Ladd. On this. certificate Ladd obtained, as the assigne6 of
Ware, executor of John Hockaday, four warrants, each for
one thousand acres. Part of the land, under one of these warrants, through assignments to George Hoffman and others, became the property of Henry Brush; who, under an entry made
by George Hoffman, obtained a patent for the land held by
him from the United States, on the twenty-third of January,
1818.

The bill of the appellees asserts that Henry Brush was a purchaser with notice of the superior title of the heirs of John Hocka-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

95

[Brush v. Were et aL]

day, and prays that he may, by a decree of the Court, be directed
to convey the land to them,'they having the prior equity.
In the answer of Brush, he says, the land in controversy was
granted to him by patents, dated January 23, 1818 ; that be has
no recollection or belief that he ever saw the warrant, entry, or
survey, or copies of either; that he is an innocent purchaser for
a valuable consideration: he denies all notide of cpmplainant's
claim, at or before the emanation of the patents, and all knowledge of any fraud: he says he believes that the purchase by
Ladd was fair, and for a valuable consideration: that he had no
knowledge what the will of Hockaday contained: he says he
has been in possession, rinder claim of title, since 1808, and has
made lasting and valuable improvements; and insists that complainants ought to be barred by the statute of limitations: and
that at any rate he ought to be paid for all improvements. And
by his amended answer, he claims compensation for taxes paid,
and for an allowance for a locator's share; for expenses in perfecting the title; and claims all the surplus land in the surveys.
The case was argued by Mr. Mason, for the appellant.. No
counsel appeared for the appellees.

Mr. Mason :-The appellant is a purchaser for valuable consideration without actual notice, and holds the land in controversy
by patent from the United States.
The heirs of John Hockaday, deceased, are proceeding by bill
in chancery, to recover the land, on the alleged ground that the
assignment of the claim of their ancestor to bounty-land was
made by his executor w ithout authority, and, consequently, that
their rights are not divested or impaired by that transfer.
Having acquired the legal title without notice of any adversary claim, the appellant is entitled to the aid and protection of
the Court; "114nd"upon this principle, that all men who stand on
equal ground, shall have equal equity; because the Court cannot
-do any thing for one without injuring the other." No title ban
be better than the title of such a purchaser. If he has a legal
title, the Court cannot interpose. Lord Drogheda v. Malone,
Finley's Digest; cited in note to Mitford's Ch. P1. 3d. Am. ed.
p. 340.

96

SUPREME COURT.
[Bnrus v. Ware et al]

Is the appellant affected by constructive notice ?
Presumptive notice is where the law imputes to a purchaser
the knowledge of a fact, of 'which the exercise of common prudence and ordinary diligence must have apprized him. As where
a purchaser cannot make out a title but by a deed which leads
him to another fact, whether by description of the parties, recital,
or otherwise, he will be deemed connusant thereof.
Constructive 4otice is, in its nature, no more than evidence
of notice, the presumptions of which are so violent,.that tie Court
will not allow of its being controverted. 2 Sug. Vend. 292.
Newl. Cont. 511.
In Dexter v. Harris, 2 Mason's C. C. Rep. 536, Mi. Justice
Story says: ";There is no such principle of law, as that what is
matter of record shall be constructive notice to a purchaser. The
doctrine upon this subject, as to purchasers, is this, that they are
affected with constructive notice of all that is apparent upon the
face of the title deeds, under which they claim, and of such other
facts as those already known necessarily put them upon inquiry
for, and as such inquiry, pursued with ordinary diligence and
prudence, would bring to their knowledge. But of other facts
extrinsic of the title, and collateral to it, no constructive notice
can be presumed; but it must be proved."
In Flagg v. Man, 2 Sumner's C. C. Rep. 556, the same learned
judge, after stating that constructive notice could not be rebutted,.
thought that the cases he had referred to, ought to "1admonish
Courts of Equity in this country, where the registration of deeds,
as matters of title, was universally provided for, not to enlarge the
doctrine of constructive notice, or to follow all of the English
cases on this subject, except with a cautious attention to their
just application to the circumstances of our country, and to the
structure of our laws."
Chancellor Kent (4 Com. p. 172, old ed.) declared, cc It was,
indeed, difficult to define, with precision, the rules which regulate
implied or constructive notice, for it depended upon the infinitely
varied circumstances of each case." I shall contend that the doctrine of constructive notice is not applicable to grants for land
issued by public authority; nor does it apply to the purchaser of a
military land warrant issued by the state of Virginia; nor to the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

97

[Brush v. Ware et aL]
purchaser of an entry or survey in the state of Ohio, made in
virtue of such warrant.
1. Because there is a legai presumption, that the acts of the
public agents employed to superintend and conduct the proceedings from the commencement of an inceptive title- to its
consummation in a grant, have been in conformity with law.
2. Because the purchaser, though put upon inquiry by facts
already known, cannot, by the exercise of ordinary diligence~and
prudence, arrive at the knowledge of other facts necessary to be
known.
3. Because in the case of military warrants, they are issued
by the authority of a sovereign state, in pursuance of law; and
the legal presumption is, that its officers have performed their
duty in executing the trusts confided to them.
4. Because, lastly, such warrants are t'-ansferable by assignment; and ought to pass, like cobamercia -paper, into the hands
of a bona fide purchaser, discharged from all equities, of *hich
"he had not actual notice.
These propositions he hoped to maintain, both upon reason
and authority.
The doctrine of constructive notice has been.too long established, to be now called in question. Therefore, it is not denied
to be law, as applied by Courts 6f Equity to deeds, and other
instruments of writing for the transmission of real estate from
one individual to another. Public grants are supposed to rest
upon a different foundation from .that of private conveyances.
They emanate fronr the sovereign power of the country, according to certain rules and forms of proceeding prescribed by.
itself, for the regulation of its own action. And when so issued,
no matter what recitals the patent may contain,.* every man has
a right to draw from the existence of the grant itself," the "1inference that every prerequisite has been performed," and that
these rules have been complied with on the part of the grantor.
The legal presumption is in favour of the validity of every grant.
issued in the forms prescribed by law."
These presumptions are not understood to exist in favour'of
deeds and other transactions between private citizens; on the
contrary, such deeds are not of themselves proof of title, and can
be made so only by the aid of extrinsic evidence.
VOL. XV.-I
13

98

SUPREME COURT.
[Brush v. Ware et a.]

A deed or will is merely a link in the chain of title, of which
a patent is the beginning. The former transmits a legal title
already in existence-the latter creates the legal title, and brings
-itinto existence.
A public grant is not only an appropriation of the land, but
is itself a perfect title. Green v. Lighter and others, 8 Cranch,
247-8.

Officers are appointed tnd commissioned by the government
for the express purpose of conducting and supervising all the
preliminary proceedings from the origin to the consummation of
the title; and when these incipient measures are completed, and
the grant issued, the law presumes that the government agents
have performed their duty, and that the grant is valid. In one
word, it is a legal presumption, in favour of a patent, that there
are no defects behind it, by which it can be invalidated, or
avoided. But, notwithstanding this presumption, it is admitted
that defectsmay, in fact, exist. And hence, it is contended on
the other side, that if the patent contains recitals which would
fairly conduct an honest inquirer to the discovery of these defects, a purchaser is justly chargeable with notice of them,
whether he made inquiry or not. And this upon the principle
that he is guilty of' crassa negligentia, in not examining the nature and extent of a danger of which he had .thus received
notice. Will the law impute gross negligence to a purchaser for
omitting to search for defects in the origin of his title, in a case
where the law, at the same time, presumes that no defects exist?
Is not one presumption inconsistent with the other? Can they
both exist together in the same .case? And if they cannot,
which ought to yield? Can it be tolerated, as just, in any system
of jurisprudence, that the law should first invite the confidence
of the purchaser; and then turn against him, and treat that very
confidence as criminal?
The executive -of the United States has authority to issue
patents to purchasers of the public lands. Indeed, it is one of
the duties imposed upon him by the laws of Congress; and to
see that the laws are faithfully executed, is as imperative on him
in this branch of the public service, as it is in any other. In the
discharge of that dhty, the exercise of a wider latitude of discretioi .and judgment, than is permitted in most other cases,

JANUARYV TERM, 1841.

99

[Brush v. Ware et aL]

is necessarily confided to that officer. He must be the judge of
the sufficiency and regularity of the various preliminary steps
required to be taken toward the completion of a legal title, and
see that these prerequisites have all been complied with. The
nature and extent of this discretion, could no. be better illustrated,
than by referring to the duties required to be performed by the.
executive under our system of pre-emption laws, daily becoming more complicated. From the number of public agents employed, and from the character and variety of their duties, in
the disposal of the public lands, the inference is irresisible, that
errors must be committed. If, under 9ach a state of things, the
purchaser is to be,affected with notice of these irregularities,
and that, too, after the emanation of the patent, thdre can be
no security in land titles, no confidence in the action of the government.
But ought not the acts of the highest officer in the republic,
when performed in the execution qf a function prescribed by
law, and requiring the exercise of judgment and discretion, to
be regarded by the citizen, as valid and conclusive?
A contrary presumption, or the absence of any presumption in
favour of the acts of a public officer, when performed within
the sphere of his duty, would make if necessary for the private
citizer, if he would avoid the consequences of constructive notice, to visit the land office and examine the records there; and at
Washington cityy to satisfy himself that the officers had fulfilled
their duty, before he could venture to become a purchaser.
Upon this theory, lie must re-judge, and at his own peril, what
had already been adjudicated by a competent officer,'charged
with that particular duty.
In such a case, he might differ from the officer; and the Court
from both.
The executive of the .United States, in issuing patents for land,
is required to perform, and does perform certain acts of a judicial
nature. And when an executive officer acts judicially, as he
often must, (for the idea of a perfect separation of the powers of
government, is a mere abstraction, and wholly unattainable in
practice,) his decisions are as valid, and have the same effect
as judgments pronounced by Courts of justice; and are, ordinarily, far more difficult to revise, if erronebus,-than the latter.

100

SUPREME COURT.
(Brush v. Ware et al]

Judicial power, by whomsoever exercised, is judicial power still,
and its determinations, whether announced from the bench, or
at the council-table, have all the authority of adjudications made
in conformity with law, and are entitled to be respected as such.
The President prescribes the form of the grant, and decides from
the evidence before him, whether a pateni ought to issue; and
whether the applicant, or which of the applicants, if more than
one, is entitled to have the'grant.
The presumption of law is, that he has decided these questions
correctly; and, therefore, the purchaser is not obliged, in order to
protect himself, to examine the grounds of the decision.
This is a contest between parties, claiming under the same title.
In this case, the patent is valid upon its face; it was notissued
without authority; it was not protected: by stathte; the United
States had title to the thing granted; and hence the patent cannot
be impeached collaterally in a Court of law.
In pupport of the foregoing principles the Court are referred to
the following cases, viz.: Polk's Lessee v. Wendall, 9 Cranch, 87;
S. C. 4 Cond. Rep. 650. Patterson v. Winn, 6 Cond. Rep. 355.
Patterson v. Jenks et al. 2 Pet. Rep. 216. Stringer et al.
v. Lessee of Young et al. 3 Peters, 320. Boardman etal. v.
Lessee of Reed & Ford et al. 6 Peters, 328. United States v.
Arredondo et al. 6 Peters, 727-732. Miller v. Kerr, 5 Cond.
Rep. 202. Hoofhagle et al. v. Anderson, Z5 Cond. Rep. 271.
Bolidin hnd Wife v. Massie's Heirs, 5 Cond. Rep. 252.
'It is a presumption" of lav, that public agents and officers,
appointed by government, have properly executed their office,
and complied with the law, in discharging the duties imposed
on them. Jackson v. Marsh, 6 Cow. 281 ; 4 Crapch, 431. Taylor
v. Brown, 5 Cranch, 242; 9 Cow. 110; 19 Johns. Rep.- 347;
Buller's N. P. 298. Williams vz East India Company, 3 East's
Rep. 192. Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 437.
Every act required to be done from the commencement to the
compleon of a military title, derived from the laws of Virginia,
is either performed by, or submitted to the cognisance of, an
officer appointed for that particular'purpose.
Now, as there is a legal presumption in favour of the acts of
these officers, I maintain that there is no place for the application
of the doctrine of implied notice to this class of titles. The idea

JANUARY-TERM, 1841:

101

[Brush v. Ware et al.]

of presumptive notice is met and repelled by an antagonist presumption.
Again, the distinction between a patent issued by the sovereign
authority, and deeds from one citizen to another, is well illustrated by the fact, that the former, unless it is void upon its face,
or has issued without authority, or is prohibited by statute, can
only be set aside by a regular course of pleading, in which the
fraud, irregularity, or mistake, is directly put in issue. And the
state only can take advantage of an improvident or .mistaken
grant. 3 Black. Com. 261. 1 Mum. 134. 2 Wash. 55. 4 Monroe,
41. 4 Bibb, 329. 5 Monroe, 213. 12 Johns. Rep. 77. 10 Johns.
Rep. 23. 1 Mason, 153." 1 Hen. & Mum. 306. 4 Johns. Rep. 143.
2 Bibb, 628. 487.
The statute of frauas and perjuries has no application to public
grants. Neither fraud, nor the want of consideration, can be
averred as grounds to igipeach a patent on the application of a
creditor.
But Ihe doctrine of constructive notice does not apply to the
purchpser of a military irarrant, an entry) or a survey.
Without intending to say that a warrant is not necessary to
the validity of an entry, or that a survey would be good without
an entry, I contend that a warrant is to be presumed from the
existence of an entry; on the principle, that as it would be a
violation of duty on the part of the principal surveyor to make or,
record an entry without the authority of a warrant; and as the
law will presume that the officer has duly executed his office, it
follows, therefore, that an entry is proof, till the contrary. appears,
of the existence of a warrant.
For the same reason a survey is presumptive evidence of the
existence of an entry duly made. . These are official acts, performed by officers appointed -by public authority, and sworn t6
perform these duties. And the law gives them credit for fidelity
till the contrary is shown; and nothing, surely, can be more just
and reasonable.
Besides, as the law does not direct the warrint to be recorded.
in- the surveyor's office, and as it is not, in practice, recorded
there, it may not be accessible to the purchaser; ind, therefore, it
would be unreasonable to charge him, by implication, with a
i2

102

SUPREME COURT.
[Brush V.Wars et aL]

knowledge of its contents. Itmay have been lost, or destroyed,
after the entry was made.
The state of Virginia, and afterwards the Congress of the
United States, early made provision for these casualties, bymaking
"a certified duplicate of the warrant" equivalent to the original,
for the purpose of obtaining a patent. Ohio L. Laws, 1I5. 133.
And for another" reason, the warrant may be beyond the reach
of the purchaser. It may, at the time, be in the hands of a
deputy surveyor, for the purpose of executing a survey of
that part of it which had not %een surveyed before. Ohio L.
Laws, 122.

It is submitted, therefore, that the fact that the warrant may
not at all times be within reach of the purchaser, affords a reason why he ought not to be affected with constructive notice of
its contents.
But, again, no more than ordinary diligence and prudence are
required of a purchaser, in the cases where the doctrine of im.
plied notice is admitted to be applicable. --For, if a higher degree
of diligence and attention than ordinary becomes necessary, the
rule itself ceases. What are the facts of the case ? The lands
lie in the state of Ohio, where the office of the'principal surveyor
for the district is established. The tribunal that receives the evidence and adjudicates the right of the original claimant-to bounty
land, and which gives the certificate; and also the office which
issues the warrant, are all established in the state of Virginia,
distant not less than six Hundred miles from the land. If the
claim was assigned l efore the warrant issued, the evidence of
the power of the assignor to transfer the claim will not be found
in the office of the principal surveyor in Ohio. It may or may
not be found in the office of the Register at Richmond, for I know
of no law requiring it to be filed or recorded there.
Suppose, then, a citizen of Ohio or of some other state, wishes
to purchase a tract of land in the Virginia military reserve in
Ohio, what are the means within his reach, by which he may,
in exercising ordinary diligence, shield himself against the consequences of constructive notice ? The purchaser goes to the
office of the principal surveyor for the district, and by the courtesy of that officer obtains permission to examine the records and

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

'-103

(Brush v. Ware et al.]

files of the office. And what does he find there? The warrant
may be found there, or it may not, for reasons already stated.
But constructive notice, if applicable at all, must be applied
without regard to whether the warrant can, by any diligence, be
found or not. If it is in the office, the purchaser will see from
the face of it that it vas issued to the soldier himself, or to heirs,
or to. an executor, or to a purchaser. But, in either case, the
law presumes it properly issued; and, therefore, the law will
not charge the purchaser with knowledge that it was improperly
issued to the warrantee. Neither the entry nor the survey gives
any notice by which the purchaser is put upon inquiry for the
rights of others; nor do they furnish any clew by which such
rights can be ascertained.
The warrant may have been assigned before or after its location; in either case, the paper containing the assignment may or
may not be filed in the surveyor's office.
If the requisite information cannot be obtained in the state
where the land lies, will the Court say that ordinary diligence
requires the purchaser to Visit the land office at Richmond, to examine for defects prior to the date of the warrant? To do this,
a citizen of Ohio must travel a distance, in going and returning,
of twelve hundred miles. The expenses of such a journey
would exceed the value of the land, in many instances; and the
effect would be to exclude from the privilege of purchasing these
lands, all except a 'few wealthy speculators who might afford to
incur the expense. I need make no remarks on the justice or
wisdom of such a policy. Nor will I do more than ask the Court
to reflect on the consequences that must flow from establishing
the doctrine of the Court below; consequences, which could they
be limited to future transactions would be less disasterous: but
we know they must opetate on the past, and affect titles alread r
acquired, thereby producing an aggregate of injury and suffering
that no sagacity can foresee or calculate.
The' case of Reeder v. Barr, 4 Ohio Rep. 446, affords the
first and only instance, as far as I know, in which the doctrine
of implied notice has been applied to the recitals in a-patent
issued by the United States for a portion of the public domain.
And the decree from which we have appealed seems to affirm
the doctrine of that case, and to apply it, for the first time, I

104

SUPREME COURT.
[Brush v. Ware et aL.]

believe, to the military titles derived from the laws of Virginia.
During the periodc of fifty years thht these titles have been the
subject of litigation in every form, kfown to the law, it is inpossible to doubt that many cases must have occurred in which
the principle of presumptive notice would have been asserted,
if it had been supposed by the Courts, or bar, that such a principle
was applicable to a purchaser of these titles. The .absence of
any adjudication in favour of the doctrine as now aplied, is an
argument of some force against it.
Mr. Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of Ohio.
In their bill the complainants represent, that they are the only
heirs and legal representatives of John Hockaday, late of the
county of New Kent, in the commonwealth of Virginia.
Thai Hockaday in the Revolution was a captain in the Virginia line on continental establishment, which, under the acts
and resolutions of Congress entitled him to four thousand acres
of land, in the Virginia reservation, within the state of Ohio.
That in 1799"Hockaday died, leaving as his only child and heir
Hannah C. Ware, who had intermarried with Robert S. Ware,
and who was the mother of a part of the cbmplainants, and the
grandmother of the others.
That Hockaday left a will ii which he disposed of his personal.
estate only, and appointed Ware, with two other persons, his
executors. Ware prdved the will, the others declining to act;
and that he.wholly neglected his duties as executor, and never
settled the estate. That their mother died in 1805, and Robert
S. Ware, theif. father, also died some years afterwards. That in
the year 1808, one Joseph Ladd, who has since deceased, being
:nsolvent and without heirs, fraudulently made a contract with
the executor for the sale of the above military right; and having
obtained the certificate of such right from the executive council of
Virginia, the same was assigned to Ladd for the consideration of
forty dollars and a pair of boots. That on this certificate and
assignment Ladd obtained four warrants of a thousand acres
each, as the assignee of Ware the executor of Hockaday.
One -of these warrants was assigned to George Hoffman by

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

105

[Brush v. Ware et aL]

Ladd, and through certain other assignments to Brush. By a
part of this warrant the two tracts of land in controversy were
entered, and for which Brush obtained patents from the- United
States, dated the 23d January, 1818. Apd the complainants
allege that Brush was a purchaser with notice of their equity;
.and they pray that he may be. decreed to convey
to them the
title, &c.
in his answer the defendant states that he was a bona fide
purchaser, for a valuable consideration, and withouf notice of the
complainants' equity. And he insists if the Court shall decree
for the complainants, that he is entitled to the part usually given
to the locator, for making the entry and obtaining the title for the
land. And also,4hat he is entitldd to moneys paid for taxes, &c.,
on the land.
This cause has been ably argued on the part of Brush, the
appellant.
The question which lies at the foundation of this controversy,
and which, in its order, should be first considered, is, whether,
the Court can go behind the patent, and examine -the equity
asserted in the bill.
Whatever doubt might arise on this question oncommon lav;
principles, there can be none when the peculiar system under
which this title originated is considered. In Ohio and Kentucky
this question has been: long settled judicially; and this Couft,
following the decisiors of those states; have also decided it.
Bodley and others v. Taylor, 5 Cranch, 196.
In the case of Polk's Lessee v. Wendall et al. 9 Cranch, 98,
the Court say, "that every pre-requisite has been performed, is an
inferenbe properly deducible, and which every man has a right
to draw from the existence of the grant itself It would, therefore, be extremely unreasonable to avoid a grant in any court,,
for irregularities in the conduct of those who are appointed by
the government to supervise.the progressive course of a title, from
its commencement to its consummation in a patent. But there
are some things so essential to the validity of the contract, that
the great principles of-justice dnd of law would be violated, did
there, not exist some tribunal to which aif injured party might
appeal, and in which the means by which an elder title was
acquired might be exaniined." And, the, Court, after showing.
1-4

106

SUPREME COURT.
[Brush v. Ware et A.]

that a Court of Equity was the proper tribunal to make this
examination, remark, "But there are cases in which a grant is
absolutely void, as where the state has no title to the. thing
granted; or where the officbr had'no authority to issue the grant.
In such cases the validity of the grant is.necessarily examinable
at lai'."
The same case was again brought before the Court by a writ
of error, and is reported in 5 Wheat. 293, in which the Court
held, that the system under which land titles originated in Tennessee being peculiar, constituted, with the adjudication of its
Courts, a rule of decision for this Court.
In the case of Idiler and others v. Kerr and others, 7 Wheat. 1,
it was held, that an equity arising from an entry of land made
on a warrant which had been issued by mistake, could not be
sustained against a patent issued on a junior entry. The Court
say, "The great difficulty in this case consists in the admission
of any testirmqny whatever which calls into question the validity
of a warrant issued by the offlcer to whom that duty is assigned
by law. In examining this question, the distinction between an
act-which is judicial and one which is merely ministerial, must
be regarded.. The -Register of the land office is not at liberty to
examine testimony, and to exerqise his own judg/ment respecting
the right of an applicant for a military land warrant."
And in the case of Hoofnagle and others v. Anderson, 7
Wheat. 212, another question was raised on an entry made by
virtue of the same warrant.
The mistake in ihe~warrant consisted in this. Thomas Powell
having performed military services in the Virginia state line, a
certificate by the executive council of Virginia was obtained by
his heir, which entitled him to a certain amount, of land. On
this certificate, the Register of the land office at Richmond, Virginia, issued a warrant, which, instead of reciting that the services were performed in the state line, stated that they were
performed in -the state line on continental establishment. This
mistake was important, as the tract of country in Ohio in which
t~ie Warrant wa. ldeated, was reserved, in the cession by Virginia,
for the. satisfaction only of warrants issued for military services
in the state line on continental establishment; and consequently
was not subject to the right of Powell. And the Uourt remark,

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

107

[Brumh v. Ware et aL.]

how far the patent ouight to be afected by this error is the question on which the cause depends. They say there was no
ground to suspect fraud; that the warrant was assignable, and
carried .with it no evidence of the mistake which had been
committed in the office; that it had been assigned for a valuable
consideration, and the purchaser had obtained a patent for the
land without actual notice of any defect in the origin of his title;
and they held that the patent gave a good title as against any
one whose entry was subsequent to its date.
A patent appropriates the land called for, and is conclusive
against rights subsequently acquired. But where an equitable
right, which originated before the date of the patent, whether by
the first entry or otherwise, is isserted, it may be examined.
The patent, under the Virginia land law, as modified by usage
and judicial construction in Kentucky and Ohio, conveys the
legal title, but leaves all equities open. Bouldin and Wife v.
Massie's heirs and. others, 7 Wheat. 149.
The controversy in this case, does not arise from adverse
entries, but between claimants under the same warrant. Andit
is admitted that Wae, as executor, had no power to assign the
military right, which, on the decease of Hockaday descended to
his heirs. It is too clear to admit of doubt, that Ladd, by circumvention and fraud, obtained the assignment from the executor, which enabled him to procure the war-ant from the register.
As between Ladd and'the complainants, can there be any
doubt that this case would be examinable in equity? Could the
issuing of the warrant, by the Register, interpose any objection
to such an investigation?
It is insisted, that the Register, of necessity, before he. issues
the warrant, must determine the right of the applicant, and that
in doing so, he acts judicially. That presumptions iot only.
arise in favour of such acts, but unless fraud'be shown, they are
not open to examination.
The executive council of Virginia, in determining the right of
Hockaday's heirs, may be said to have acted judicially. But
the Register, in the language of the Court, in one of the cases
above cited, acted ministerially. The Court say he was not anthoried to examine witnesses in the case, but was bound to act
upon the face of the certificate. The parties interested were not

1I08

SUPREME COURT.
[Brush v. Ware et aL]

before him, and he had no means of ascertaining their names,
.giving them notice, or taking evidence. And under such circumstances, would it not be a most extraordinary rule,.which
should give a judicial character ahd effect to his proceeding. He
acts, and must necessarily act from the face of the paper, both
as it regards the certificate of the executive council, and the assignment of such certificate. His acts, in their nature, are
strictly ministerial. They have neither the form nor effect of a
judicial proceeding.
It may be admitted that presumptions arise in favour of the
acts of a ministerial officer, if apparently fair and legal, until
they shall be impeached by evidence. But in this case, there is
no impeachment of the acts of the Register. The evidence on
which he acted, is stated on the face of the warrant, which nables
the proper tribunal,.as between the parties interested, to determine the question 6f right, which the Register had neither the
means nor the power to do.
The complainants do not deny the genuineness of the certificate, the assignment, or the warrant, but they say that the executor had no right to make the assignment and that'the issuing of
the warrant by the Register does not preclude them from raising
that question.
Until the patents were obtained, this warrant, though assigned
and entered in part, on the land in controversy, conveyed only
an equitable interest. Hoffman, to whom Ladd assigned it, and
the other assignees, took it, subject to all equities. In their hands,
unless affected by the statute of limitation or lapse of time, any
equity arising from the face of the instrument could be asserted
against them, the same as against Ladd.
Brush, being the last assignee, obtained the patents in his own
name as assignee, and these vested in him the legal estate. But
thison the principles which have been long established, in relation to these titlesx does- not bar a prior equity. The complainants are Proved tQ be the heirs of Hockaday; gnd a part of
them were .minors ati;ei commencement of this suit. All of
them, in age, were of tender y.ears, when the warrant was assigned,:ahd it appears that none of them came to a knowledge
of theirfrights, until a short time before the bill was filed.. And
this is -n-answer-Volh to tbhstatute of limitations'and the ]ap~e

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

109

[Brush v.Ware et al.]
of time. The statute of Ohio does not run against non-residents
of the state; nor can lapse of time operate against infants, under
the circumstances of this case.
The great question in this controversy is, whether Brush is
-chargeable with notice.
The certificate of the executive council of Virginia stated,
that "the representatives of John Hockaday were entitled to the
proportion of land allowed a captain of the continental line for
three years' service." To this was appended a request to the
Register of the land office to issue a warrant, in the name of
Joseph Ladd, his heirs or assigns, signed by Ware, executor of
Hockaday, he having received, as stated, fill value for the same.
Four military kwarrants, of one thousand acres each, were
issued by the Register, "the 9th of August, 1808, to Joseph Lad l,
assignee of Robert S. Ware, executof of John Hockaday, deceased."
By virtue of one of these warrants, four hundred acres of the
land in dispute were entered the 8th of June, 1809, in the name
of George Hoffman, assignee, and two hundred acres, in the
same name, the 18th of August, 1810. These entries were surveyed in May, 1810, and on the 20th of danualry, 1818, patents
were issued to "Brush, assignee of John Hoffman; who' was
assignee of Joseph Hoffman et al., assignees of George Hoff-man, who was assignee of Joseph Ladd, assignee of Robert S.
Ware, executorof Hockaday," &c.
It is insisted that -the general doctrine of notice does not apply
to titles ofrthis description. And this position is true, so far at
regards the original gntry.. To make a-.valid ehtfy, some object
of notoriety must be'called for; and unless this object be proved
to have been generally known in the neighbourhobd of the land,
a't
the time of the entry) the bolder of a warrant who enters the
same land, with full notice of the- first entry, will have the better
title. And;so" if an entry be not specific as to the land intended
to be appropriated, or in any respect be defective, it conveys no
notice to a stbsequent locator, nor can it be made good by a subsequent purchaser without notice. Kerr v. Watts, 6 Wheat. 560.
But, with these exceptions, the doctrine of Inotice has been considered applicable to these military titles, as in other ca~es. And
no reason is perceived why this rhle should not prevail:
VOL. XV.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[Brush v. Ware et al.)

From the nature of these titles, and the force of circumstances,
an artificial system has been created, unlike any other; and
which has long formed the basis of title to real estate, in a large
and fertile district of country.' The peculiarities of this system,
having for half a century received judicial sanctions, must be
preserved; but to extend them, would be unwise and impolitic.
Brush, it is insisted, was a bona fide purchaser for a valuable
consideration, without notice.
The answer under which this defence is set .up, is neither in
substance nor in form free from objection. It does not state the
amount of consideration paid, the time of payment, nor does it
deny the circumstances from which notice can be inferred. Boon
v. Chiles, 10 Peters, 211, 212. But, passing over the considerations which arise out of the answer, we will inquir whether
the defendant is not chargeable with notice, from the facts which
appear upon the face of his title.
. The entry on the books of the surveyor,.kept at the time in
the state of Kentucky, was the incipient step in the acquisition
of the title. This entry could only be made by producing to the
surveyor, and filing in his office, the original warrant, or a certified copy of it. The survey was then made, and a plat of the
land, by a deputy, who returned the same to the principal surveyor's office. This survey is called the plat and certificate, and
is assignable by law; but, without an entry founded upon a
warrant, it is of no validity. On the transmission of this survey,
under the hand and seal of the principal surveyor, accompanied
by the original warrant, or a copy, to the general land office, a
patent is issued to the person apparently entitled to it. In issuing the patent, the commissioner of the land office performs a
ministerial duty. He examines no witnesses, but acts from' the
face of thc papers, and exercises no judgment on the subject,
except so far as regards matters of form. The patent, therefore,
conveys the regal iitle only, leaving prior equities open to investigation.
This is the history of this title, and of every other in the same
district of country. And the question arises whether the re-.
spondent, under the circumstances, was a bona fide purchaser for
a valuable consideration, without notice.
In his answer, he says that he never saw the warrant, the

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

I11

[Brush v. Ware et al.]

entries, nor the surveys on which the patents were founded; ahd
that he had no information as to the derivation of the title, except
that which the patents contain.
The question is not whether the defendant in fact saw any of
the muniments of title, but whether he was not -bound to see
them. It will not do for a purchaser to close his eyes to facts;
facts which were open to his investigation, by the'exercfse of that
diligence whiclf the law imposes. Such purchasers are not protected.
It is insisted that the plats and certificates being assignable,
the defendant might well purchase them without a knowledge
of the facts contained on the face of the warrant. But was he
not bound to look to the warrant as the foundation of his title ?
The surveys were of no value without the warrant. No principle is better established, than that a purchaser must look to every
part of the title which is essential to its validity.
The warrant was in the land office of the principal surveyor;
and although this, at the time, was kept in Kentucky, the defendant was bound to examine it. In this office his entries were
made, and to it his surveys were returned. And from this. office
was the evidence transmitted, on which the patents were issued.
Can it be contended that the defendant, who purchased an inchoate title, a mere equity, was not bound to look into the origin
of that equity? As a prudent man, would he not examine
whether that which he bought was of any value? The records
of the land office, and the papers there on file, showed the origin
of the title, and the steps which had been taken to perfect it.
By the exercise of ordinary prudence he would have been led to
make this examination; and, in law, he must be considered as
having made it.
And here the question arises, whether the statements of the
warrant, which were afterwards copied into the patents, that the
right originally belonged to Hockaday, descended to Ids heirs, on
his decease, and had been assigned to Ladd, by his executor;
were not stifficient to put the defendant on inquiry? Now' an
executor has not, ordinarily, any power over the real estate. His
powers are derived from the will, and he can do no valid actbeyond his authority. Where a will contains no special provision on the subject, the land of the deceased descends to his

112

SUPREME COURT.
[Brush v. Ware et aL]

.heirs; and their rights cannot be divested or impaired by the
unauthorized acts of the executor.
The warrant then showed the purchaser that this. right, which
pertained to the realty, and which, on the death of Hockaday,
desceided to his heirs, had been assigned by the executor. Was
not this notice? Was it not a fact, essentially connected with
the title purchased by the defendant, which should have put him
upon inquiry? If it would do this, it was notice; for whatever
shall put a prudent man on inquiry is sufficient.. And fhis rule
is founded on sound reason, as well as law. How can an individual claim as an innocent purchaser, under such a circumstance ?
But it is argued that it would impose on the defendant an
unreasonable duty, to hold that he was bound not only to examine the warrant in the land office in Kentucky, but to hunt
up the will of Hockaday, and see what powers it conferred on
the executor.
The law requires reasonable diligence in a purchaser to ascertain any defect of title. But when such defect is brought to his
knowledge, no inconvenience will excuse him from the utmost
scrutiny. He is a voluntary purchaser, ahd having notice of a
fact which casts doubt upon the validity of his title, are the rights
of innocent persons to be prejudiced through his negligence ?
The will of Hockaday was proved the I lth day of July, 1799,
before the County Court of New Kefit, in Virginia, and recorded
in the proper records of that county. When the defendant
purchased the title he knew that it origihated in Virginia, had
been sanctioned by the executive council of that state, and that
the warrant had -been issued by the Register at Richmond.
These are matters of public law, and are consequently known to
all. But, independently of this, every purchaser of a military
title cannot but have a general knowledge of its history.
Why was hot the defendant bound to search for the will?
The answifr given is, the distance was too great, and the place
where the will could be found was not stated on the warrant, or
on any of the other papers. That mere distance shall excuse
inquiry in such a case, would be a new principle in the law of
notice.
The certificate of the original right, and the warrant, were ob-

JANUARY 'TERM, 1841.

113

[Brush v. Ware et aL]
tained in Richmond, Virginia. And in the office records and
papers of the executive council, or in those of the register in
Richmond, a copy of the will, probably, could have been found.
And if such a search had been fruitless, it is certain that it could
have been found on the public records of wills of Nw Kent
county. A search short of this, would not lay the foundation
for parol evidence of the contents of a written instrument. And,
shall a purchaser make a bad title good, by neglecting or refusing to use the same amount of vigilance?
In the case of Reeder et a. v. Barr et al., 4 Ohio Rep. 458,
the Supreme Court of Ohio held, that where a patent was issued
to Neviell, as assignee of the administrator of Henson Reeder,
deceased, it was sufficient to charge a subsequent purchaser with
notice of the equitable rights of the heirs of Reeder.
It is difficult to draw a distinction, in principle, between that
case and the one under consideration. An administrator in
Ohio has no power, unless authorized by the Court of Conimon
Pleas, to sell or convey an interest in land; nor has an executor,
in Virginia any power over the realty, unless it be given to him
in the will. In this case, therefore, the purchaser was as much
bound to look into the will for the authority of the executor, as
the Ohio purchaser was bound to look into the proceedings of'
the Court for the authority of the administrator.
The case of the lessee of Willis v. Bucher, 2 Binn. 455, is. also
in point. The defendant derived his title from William Willis, to
-whom a patent had issued, reciting that the, title was derived
under the will of Hehry Willis. This will did not authorize the
sale of the premises, and the Court held that this was notice to
the defendant.
So in the case of Jackson ei dem. Livingston v. Neely, 10
John. Rep. 374, it was held, that where a deed recited a letter of
attorney, by virtue of which the conveyance was made,which was
duly deposited with the clerk of Albany, according to the act of
the 8th January, 1794, it was held to be sufficient notice of the
power by means of the recital, to a subsequent purchaser, whowas equally affected by it, as if the power itself had been deposited.
An agent receiving notes from an executor, payable to him as
executor, as security for advances by the principal to the executor.
x2
15

114

SUPREME COURT.
LBrush v. Ware et al]

on his private account, and not as executor, affects his principal with notice that it is a dealing with an executor with the
assets for a purpose foreign to the trusts he was to discharge.
2 Ball and Beat. 491.
When a purchaser cannot make out his title but through a
deed which leads to a fact, he will be affedted with notice of that
fact. Mertins v. Jolliffe, Amb. 311.
A. made a conveyance to B., with a power of revocation by
will, and limited other uses. If A. dispose to a purchaser by
will, a subsequent purchaser is intended to have notice of the
will as well as of the power to revoke; and this is a notice in
law. And so in all cases where a purchaser cannot make out a
title, but by deed which leads to another fact, notice of which a
purchaser shall be presumed cognisant; for it is trassa negligentia, that he sought not after it. Moore v. Bennet, 2 Ch. Ca. 246.
Notice of letters patent, in which there was a trust for creditors, is sufficient notice of the trust. Dunch v. Kent, 1 Vern. 319.
That which shall be sufficient to put the party upon inquiry,
is notice. 13 Yes. 120.
On a full consideration of this part of the case, we think that
the defendant must be held to be a purchaser with notice.
The Circuit Court considered le defendant as vested with a
right to such part of the land as is usually given to a locator,
and directed one-fourth of the two tracts to be laid off to him so
as to include his improvements; and they also decreed to the
defendant three-fourths of the taxes paid by him, with interest.
This part of the decree is equitable; and as we coincide with the
views of the Circuit Court on all the points of the case, the decree is affirmed.

