JANUARY TERM, 1841.

Ex PARTE ANDERSON CRENSHAW.
An appeal was prosecuted by the complainants in the Circuif Court of Alabama, to the
Supreme Court, and the citation rehuired by the act of Congress had not been served
on the appellee, and he had no notice of the appeal. In printing the copy of the
record of the Circuit Court, the return of the marshal of the district, stating thrt
the itation
to the appellee had not been served, was accidentally omitted. The
Court, on motion by the counsel for the appellee, declared the decree in the case
made at January term, 1840, null and void; revoked the mandate issued to the Circuit Court of Alabama, and dismissed the appeal.

AT January term, 1840, the case of Jefferson L. Edmonds
et al. appellants, v. Anderson Crenshaw was brought before the
Court, on appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of Alabama, vhich had been given in favour of the appellee; in which
Court the bill of the complainants, the appellants, was ordered
to be dismissed. The Supreme Court had proceeded to hear and
adjudge the case, after argument for the appellants by their
counsel, Mr. Key, no counsel having appeared for Mr. Crenshaw,
(14 Peters, 166,) and had reversed the decree of the Circuit Court.
It was afterwards discovered that a citation on the appeal
had never been served on the appellee, and that the Court was,
by an accidental circumstance, in the printing of the transcript
of the record for the use of the Supreme Court, led to the belief
that the appellee .had been cited to appear, in the mannerrequired b r the judiciary law. Under this belief, the Court had
proceeded to a decision of the case.
Mr. Sergeant, for Mr. Crenshaw, on notice to M~r. Key, the
counsel for Jefferson L. Edmonds and others, moved the Court, oil
the first day of the term, to set aside and annul the judgment
and decree of this Court, in the case, on the ground that no citation had been served upon the appellee, nor other notice given
to him of the appeal; and that the same was heard ex parte.
He also moved to dismiss the case on the ground that it was
brought up by writ of error, instead of appeal; and whether by
appeal or writ of error, it was not in time; and also on other
grounds.

SUPREME COU°iT.
[Ex parte Crenshaw.]

The motion was argued by Mr. Sergeant, for Mr. Crenshaw;
and by Mr. Key, for Mr. Edmonds and others.
Mr. Sergeant, in support of the motion, first exhibited the
printed copy of the record, showing, that owing to some mistake,
a material part of the record had been omitted in the printing;
and thus it had happened that this Court were not informed that
there had been no notice of the .appeal. The omitted part purported to be a return to the citation, and was as follows: "Rec'd.
Dec. 29, 1838; not found Jan. 1839, R. L. Crawford, U. S. M. by
C. Cuyler, D. M." .This'could not have been in time, if served
immediately on coming to the officer's hands. The return day
was the spcond Monday of January, 1839, less than thirty~days.
Where the citation had been from the time it was issued, 15th
May, 1838, did not appear.
He next read the affidavits of Anderson Crenshaw, of Robert
G. Gordon, one of his counsel below, of David Files, clerk of the
Circuit Court of the Alabama district, and of Robert L. Crawford, marshal, to prove that there was no notice or knowledge
of the removal of the case here; and also that Judge Crenshaw,
'the appellee; was a known resident of the district, who could be
found.
He next proceeded to show from the printed record the following facts:
That the decree below, which was on the equity side of the
Court, was made and rendezed on the second Monday of December, 1829.
That a petition for an appeal was filed in the clerk's office,
(but not-presented to the Court,) on the 13th August, 1836.
This appeal was not -allowed, nor security given; nor does it
appear to have been prosecuted.
On the same day,' 13th August, 1836, a writ of error was
issued, and security given by bond, dated 5th September, 1836;
the only security that ever was given. This bond was, in express terms, for prosecuting the writ of error. Upon this writ,
and jot otherwise, the case came here. There could not be both
error and appeal.
That whether it was error or appeal, it was out of time. There
were more than five years from the decree (December, 1829) to

JANt4ARY TERM, 1841.

121

[Ex parte Crenshaw.]

the .petition for appeal, and suing out the writ of error, (13
August, 1836,) still longer, to the giving the bond in error, (5
September, 1836,) and the citation was not till 1838. This being
the general rule, if the appellants rely upon any exception, it is
for them to prove it. They have not done so.
The bill, in the Court below, was filqd on the
22d March,
1827. The complainants were a man and his wile, of full age,
a lady of full age. But the question is, how they stood at the
time of the decree, and till within five years of the writ of error.
Upon this point of fact, there is no proof whatever. There is
not even a formal allegation; in support of which evidence could
be received, or upon which an isue could be tendered. In the
petition for the apveal, there is aii averment that one bf the parties remained a minor. In the writ of error, by an improper
license in the use, of the writ, which has 'its own approi~riate
form, and ought not to be exposed to alterations by a party, there
is a like averment.' These are, at best, 6nly ex parte suggestions,
out of place, and not in a shape to be traversed or denied. The
party against whom they are made, has no knowledge of them,
nor opportunity to controvert them.
The averment, however, if admitted, is insufficiefit. The disability alleged is infancy. The infancy is alleged only as to one
of several complainants. The others were of full age. It is
settled, as will be seen presently, that this will not do.*
On these facts, the law is quite clear.' The case was never
regularly before this Court. The Court had no jurisdiction ;and
the whole proceeding hei-is a nullity.
1. The case was brought here by writ of error. A writ of
error in 'such a case is not authorized by law. The San Pedro,
2 Wheat. 132.
2. If brought by appeal, it must have been dismissed as unwarranted by law. For,
1. No security was given upon appeal; it was upon the writ
of error. Without security, there can be no appeal. The adt
of 1803 requires -it as well as upon a writ of error. 2 Wheat.
132.
2. No citation was served, nor notice given, which are expressly
required by act of 1789, upon writs of error, 1 Story's Laws, 60.
§ 22; and in appeals, by act of 1803. 2 Story's Laws, 905, § 2.
VOL. XV.-L
16

122

SUPREME COURT
[Ex parte Crenshaw.]

The only exception is, where the appeal is as at the same term
when the decree is given. Here, the decree was not at the same
term, nor in term time. The want of it makes the proceeding
void. If service of process. or notice be necesshry to enable a
Court to exercise jurisdiction in a case, without it, the proceeding is a nullity. Lessee of Walden v. Craig's heirs, 14 Peters,
147.
3. The appeal was never allowed. This is necessary. Dos
Hermanos, 10 WVheat. 306. If applied for, there would have
been opportunity to give notice and settle facts. No oppcrtunity
was afforded.
4. The appeal (if any) was not in time. The gratuitous and
irregular allegation in the writ of error and petition, if admitted,
will not avail. The disability of one of the complainants will
not prevent the bay. The whole will be barred, unless the
whole be under disability. Marsteller v. M'Clean, 7 Cranch, 156.
Perry v. Jackson, 4 Term Rep. 516. 3 Murphy, 577.
In reply to the argument, that the application was too late,
after the term when the decree was made, Mr. Sergeant referred
to Bank of Commonwealth v. Wistar, 3 Peters, 431. Sibbald v.
The United States, 12 Peters, 488.
The present case, he argued, was far stronger than either of
those just cited; for he had shown that the Court had no jurisdiction, and that the decree was a nullity. The Court was led
into an error by the omission to print a material part of the
record, and thus to give an ex parte hearing in a case never
before them. The appellee was left in ignorance that any thing
which concerned him was pending here; and came at the first
opportunity afforded him, to ask that the error may be corrected.

Mr. Key, against the motion.
The appellee cannot, justly, complain of the proceedings of
this Court at January term, 1840. The whole matter which
could be alleged in defence was before the Court, in the answer
to the bill of the complainants in the Circuit Court of Alabama.
The case exhibited ws.that of an executor accepting the trusts
declared by the will, reeeivlng-a large amount of the estate of the
testator, and leaving to his co-executor to appropriate the money
he had received, on .his personal responsibility ror the conduct

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

123

[Ex parte Crenshaw.]
of the co-executor. If, by the failure of the co-executor to perform the duties imposed on him, the cestui qui trusts are injured,
the loss must be sustained by the person who confided in him.
No appearance of the appellee before the Court can change this
position of the case; and where by the decree of the Court full
'justice has been done, according to law, the Court will not interfere.
Nor can the matters' presented in support of the motion be
inquired into. The case has passed into judgment; andl is no
longer before the Court, or in the power of the Court. Cited,
Jackson v. Ashton, 10 Peters, 482.
As to the bar of the claims of the appellants, interposed by
the statute of limitations; Mr. Key argued that, as in this case,
there was a minority, the statute would not affect all the parties.
The true construction would be, as the statute did not operate
on all, it should operate on none.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case was brought here by an appeal from the decree of
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Alabama. It was
argued at the last term, on the part of the appellants; and the
decree of.the Circuit Court reversed. The argument and decision are reported in 14 Peters, 166.
Anderson Crenshaw, against-whom the judgment of this Court
was given, never appeared to the appeal;. but the argument was
heard in behalf of the appellants, and the decree of the Circuit
Court reversed, under the belief that a citation had been regularly issued, and served upon him. It now appears, that an accidental circumstance led the Court into error, in this respect; and
that Crenshaw was not cited to aplpear in the manner required
by the act of Congress.
A motion has been made, at the present term, on behalf of
Crenshaw, to set aside and annul the judgment and. decree of
this Court; and also to dismiss the appeal.
As there is no case now pending here, between these parties,
there is nothing upon which an order to dismiss would operate.
But upon the facts above stated, it is very clear that the case was
not legally before us at the last term; and the decree then pro-

124

SUPREME COURT.
[Ex parte Crete.w.J

nounced must therefore be declared null and.void, and the mandate directed to the Circuit Court must be revoked. An order
will accordingly be issued from this Court.
On consideration of the motion made by Mr. Sergeant, on a
prior day of the present term of this Court, to wit: on Monday,
the 11th ultimo, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon had,
as well against as in support of said motion: It is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the judgment and decree
of this Court, rendered in the above entitled cause, on Wednesday, the 26th day of February, A. D. 1840, be, and the same is
hereby, declared utterly nill and void; and that the mandate of
this Court directed to the judges of the said Circuit Court, in this
cause, be, and the same is hereby revoked. And it is also now
here turther ordered.that- the clerk of this Codrt do forthwith send
to the judges of tie Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, a copy of this order of the Court,
under the seal of this Court, together with a copy of the opinion
of this Court, pronounced this day.

