JANUARY TERM, 1841.

JANE YOUNJG, AND OTHERS, LEGATEES 0F JOHN PARKS, DECEASED, APPriLLANTS, V. EDWARD L. SMITH, AND HENRY N.
ALLEN, EXECUTORS OF THE LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT
OF JOHN PARKS, DECEASED.*
A bill was filed by residuary legatees claiming to receive-from- the executors their respective proportions of the estate of the testator; on a reference to a master to take
an account, the master reported seven thousand seven hundred and ninety-five dollars and twenty-seven cents to be in the hands of the executors, which sum was paid
by them into Court. The report wes referred back to the master, who made hie
final report, by which he found a further iure in the hands of theexecutors, exclusive
of sundry uncollected debts then outstanding, some bad, and some good. Exceptions were filed to this report, which were disallowed by the Court. The Circuit
Court decreed that the report should be accepted, end that the complainants should
have execution for 'the sum reported in the hands of the executors: and as to the
residue of the debts due the estate as soon as the same, or part of them, should be
collected, the amount should be paid into Court for distribution, to be made under
the direction of the Court. Held, that this is an interlocutory, and not a final decree, in the sense of the act of Congress; and an appeal from the same cannot be
taken.

ON appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of Alabama.
This case was before the Court, on a motion to dismiss the
appeal; the decree of the Circuit'Court of. Alabama, being, as
was -contended by Mr. Sergeant, for the appellees, an interlocutory, and not a final- decree.
Mr. Key opposed the motion.
Mr. Justice STOxY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court of the
Southern District of Alabama, in a suit in equity; and the only
-question-now submitted for our consideration is whether the decree in the case is a final decree, in the sense of the acts of Congress of the 24th of September, 1789, ch. 20, sec. 22; and the act
of 3d of March, 1803, ch. 93; from which an appeal lies to thil
Court.
The original bill was brought by the plaintiffs, (now appel-

ON

SUPREME COURT.
[Young et aL v. Smith et al

lants,) against the appellees, as executors of John Parks, to
recover their respectiye proportions as residuary legatbes of the
personal estate of the testator-under his will,'and for an account
and. due.administration of the assets. Upon the coming in of
the asiswer,.it 'was referred to a master to take an account; the
master. afterwards made a report, to which exceptions were filed;
and it was thereupon ordered by the Court that the sum of seven
thousand seven hundred and ninety-five dollars and twentyseven cents, adnmitted.to be in the hands of the executors, be
paid into Court, subject-to the order of the Court, which was accordingly-paid; and the report was, thereupon, referred back to
the master: -and. after several intermediate proceedings and
reports the master msde his final report on the 2d of March,
1840, by which he found a ,balance .then in the hands of the
executors, of eleven thousand three-hundred.afid fifty-five dollars
and twenty-three cents, inclusive of the said sum of seven thousand'
seven hundred and ninety-five dollars and twenty-seven cents,
and exciusive of sundry uncollected debtsp, then outstanding,
some of which were good,.some- doubtful, and some bad. To
this report the plaintiffs filed certain exceptions, on the -27th of
the same month; which exceptions were disallowed by the
Court as not having been taken before the master, or filed in the
.proper time. And thereupon the Court proceeded to decree'
that *the report be accepted, that the plaintiffs should have exectition for the said sum of elevefi thousand three hundred and
fifty-.five dollars and twenty-three cents; and "that as to the
residue of the debts due to the estate of John Parks, deceased,
and not collected, it is ordered and adjudged by the Court, that
as -soon as the said executors shall succeed in the collection of the
same, or any part thereof, that they do pay the amount into
Court for distribution,.to be made under the direction of this
Court." The plaintiffs having received the said sum of seven
thousand seven hundred and ninety-five dollars and twenty-seven
cents, acknowledged the receipt thereof; which was to be credited
on the decree as a payment made on the 18th of November,
1838: to the above decree the appeal is taken.
We are of opinion that the-decree is an interlocutory and not
a final decree, in the sense of the act of Congress. It is plain
that it does not dispose of the. whole matter in controversy be-

JANUARY TERM, 1841.

289

[Young et aL v. Smith et aL]

tween the ptrties. And if an appeal could now lie upon the
decree already rendered, an appeal could also lie from time to
time, from any future decree of distribution of any assets which
may be collected after the former decree, toties quoties; without
any final decision behig made of all the matters in controversy.
In our judgment this wohld be ngainst the clear import and intention of the acts of Congress; which were designed to'give an
appeal only from a decree final, upon the whole matters and
merits of the controversy.
The consequence is, that the appeal must be dismissed with
costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this Court that the decree in
this case is an interlocutory and not j. final decree in the sense
of the act of; Congress; whereupon, it is now here ordered and
decreed, that this appeal be, and the same is hereby, dismissed
with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court to be proceeded in according
to law and justice.

VOL. XV.-2 B

